I have sat at an Oratorio (that profanation of the purposes of the cheerful playhouse) watching
the faces of the auditory in the pit (what a contrast to Hogarth's Laughing Audience!) immoveable,
or affecting some faint emotion,--till (as some have said, that our occupations in the next
world will be but a shadow of what delighted us in this) I have imagined myself in some cold
Theatre in Hades, where some of the forms of the earthly one should be kept up, with none of
the enjoyment; or like that--

  --Party in a parlour,
  All silent, and all DAMNED!

Above all, those insufferable concertos, and pieces of music, as they are called, do plague
and embitter my apprehension.--Words are something; but to be exposed to an endless battery
of mere sounds; to be long a dying, to lie stretched upon a rack of roses; to keep up languor
by unintermitted effort; to pile honey upon sugar, and sugar upon honey, to an interminable
tedious sweetness; to fill up sound with feeling, and strain ideas to keep pace with it; to
gaze on empty frames, and be forced to make the pictures for yourself; to read a book, all
stops, and be obliged to supply the verbal matter; to invent extempore tragedies to answer
to the vague gestures of an inexplicable rambling mime--these are faint shadows of what I have
undergone from a series of the ablest-executed pieces of this empty instrumental music.

I deny not, that in the opening of a concert, I have experienced something vastly lulling and
agreeable:--afterwards followeth the languor, and the oppression.

Something like this "SCENE-TURNING" I have experienced at the evening parties, at the house
of my good Catholic friend Nov----; who, by the aid of a capital organ, himself the most finished
of players, converts his drawing-room into a chapel, his week days into Sundays, and these
latter into minor heavens.[1]

When my friend commences upon one of those solemn anthems, which peradventure struck upon my
heedless ear, rambling in the side aisles of the dim abbey, some five and thirty years since,
waking a new sense, and putting a soul of old religion into my young apprehension--(whether
it be that, in which the psalmist, weary of the persecutions of bad men, wisheth to himself
dove's wings--or that other, which, with a like measure of sobriety and pathos, inquireth by
what means the young man shall best cleanse his mind)--a holy calm pervadeth me.--I am for the time

  --rapt above earth,
  And possess joys not promised at my birth.

But when this master of the spell, not content to have laid a soul prostrate, goes on, in his
power, to inflict more bliss than lies in her capacity to receive,--impatient to overcome her
"earthly" with his "heavenly,"--still pouring in, for protracted hours, fresh waves and fresh
from the sea of sound, or from that inexhausted German ocean, above which, in triumphant progress,
dolphin-seated, ride those Arions Haydn and Mozart, with their attendant tritons, Bach, Beethoven,
and a countless tribe, whom to attempt to reckon up would but plunge me again in the deeps,--I
stagger under the weight of harmony, reeling to and fro at my wit's end;--clouds, as of frankincense,
oppress me--priests, altars, censers, dazzle before me--the genius of his religion hath me
in her toils--a shadowy triple tiara invests the brow of my friend, late so naked, so ingenuous
he is Pope, and by him sits, like as in the anomaly of dreams, a she-Pope too,--tri-coroneted
like himself!--I am converted, and yet a Protestant;--at once malleus hereticorum, and myself
grand heresiarch: or three heresies centre in my person:--I am Marcion, Ebion, and Cerinthus--Gog
and Magog--what not?--till the coming in of the friendly supper-tray dissipates the figment,
and a draught of true Lutheran beer (in which chiefly my friend shows himself no bigot) at
once reconciles me to the rationalities of a purer faith; and restores to me the genuine unterrifying
aspects of my pleasant-countenanced host and hostess.

[Footnote 1:
  I have been there, and still would go;
  'Tis like a little heaven below.--Dr. Watts.]

ALL FOOLS' DAY

The compliments of the season to my worthy masters, and a merry first of April to us all!

Many happy returns of this day to you--and you--and you, Sir--nay, never frown, man, nor put
a long face upon the matter. Do not we know one another? what need of ceremony among friends?
we have all a touch of that same--you understand me--a speck of the motley. Beshrew the man
who on such a day as this, the general festival, should affect to stand aloof. I am none of
those sneakers. I am free of the corporation, and care not who knows it. He that meets me in
the forest to-day, shall meet with no wise-acre, I can tell him. Stultus sum. Translate me
that, and take the meaning of it to yourself for your pains. What, man, we have four quarters
of the globe on our side, at the least computation.

Fill us a cup of that sparkling gooseberry--we will drink no wise, melancholy, politic port
on this day--and let us troll the catch of Amiens--duc ad me--duc ad me--how goes it?

  Here shall he see
  Gross fools as he.

Now would I give a trifle to know historically and authentically, who was the greatest fool
that ever lived. I would certainly give him in a bumper. Marry, of the present breed, I think
I could without much difficulty name you the party.

Remove your cap a little further, if you please: it hides my bauble. And now each man bestride
his hobby, and dust away his bells to what tune he pleases. I will give you, for my part,

  --The crazy old church clock.
  And the bewildered chimes.

Good master Empedocles, you are welcome. It is long since you went a salamander-gathering down
Ætna. Worse than samphire-picking by some odds. 'Tis a mercy your worship did not singe your
mustachios.

Ha! Cleombrotus! and what salads in faith did you light upon at the bottom of the Mediterranean?
You were founder, I take it, of the disinterested sect of the Calenturists.

Gebir, my old free-mason, and prince of plasterers at Babel, bring in your trowel, most Ancient
Grand! You have claim to a seat here at my right hand, as patron of the stammerers. You left
your work, if I remember Herodotus correctly, at eight hundred million toises, or thereabout,
above the level of the sea. Bless us, what a long bell you must have pulled, to call your top
workmen to their nuncheon on the low grounds of Sennaar. Or did you send up your garlick and
onions by a rocket? I am a rogue if I am not ashamed to show you our Monument on Fish-street
Hill, after your altitudes. Yet we think it somewhat.

What, the magnanimous Alexander in tears?--cry, baby, put its finger in its eye, it shall have
another globe, round as an orange, pretty moppet!

Mister Adams--'odso, I honour your coat--pray do us the favour to read to us that sermon, which
you lent to Mistress Slipslop--the twenty and second in your portmanteau there--on Female Incontinence--the
same--it will come in most irrelevantly and impertinently seasonable to the time of the day.

Good Master Raymund Lully, you look wise. Pray correct that error.--

Duns, spare your definitions. I must fine you a bumper, or a paradox. We will have nothing
said or done syllogistically this day. Remove those logical forms, waiter, that no gentleman
break the tender shins of his apprehension stumbling across them.

Master Stephen, you are late.--Ha! Cokes, is it you?--Aguecheek, my dear knight, let me pay
my devoir to you.--Master Shallow, your worship's poor servant to command.--Master Silence,
I will use few words with you.--Slender, it shall go hard if I edge not you in somewhere.--You
six will engross all the poor wit of the company to-day.--I know it, I know it.

Ha! honest R----, my fine old Librarian of Ludgate, time out of mind, art thou here again?
Bless thy doublet, it is not over-new, threadbare as thy stories:--what dost thou flitting
about the world at this rate?--Thy customers are extinct, defunct, bed-rid, have ceased to
read long ago.--Thou goest still among them, seeing if, peradventure, thou canst hawk a volume
or two.--Good Granville S----, thy last patron, is flown.

  King Pandion, he is dead,
  All thy friends are lapt in lead.--

Nevertheless, noble R----, come in, and take your seat here, between Armado and Quisada: for
in true courtesy, in gravity, in fantastic smiling to thyself, in courteous smiling upon others,
in the goodly ornature of well-apparelled speech, and the commendation of wise sentences, thou
art nothing inferior to those accomplished Dons of Spain. The spirit of chivalry forsake me
for ever, when I forget thy singing the song of Macheath, which declares that he might be happy
with either, situated between those two ancient spinsters--when I forget the inimitable formal
love which thou didst make, turning now to the one, and now to the other, with that Malvolian
smile--as if Cervantes, not Gay, had written it for his hero; and as if thousands of periods
must revolve, before the mirror of courtesy could have given his invidious preference between
a pair of so goodly-propertied and meritorious-equal damsels, * * * * *

To descend from these altitudes, and not to protract our Fools' Banquet beyond its appropriate
day,--for I fear the second of April is not many hours distant--in sober verity I will confess
a truth to thee, reader. I love a Fool--as naturally, as if I were of kith and kin to him.
When a child, with child-like apprehensions, that dived not below the surface of the matter,
I read those Parables--not guessing at their involved wisdom--I had more yearnings towards
that simple architect, that built his house upon the sand, than I entertained for his more
cautious neighbour; I grudged at the hard censure pronounced upon the quiet soul that kept
his talent; and--prizing their simplicity beyond the more provident, and, to my apprehension,
somewhat unfeminine wariness of their competitors--I felt a kindliness, that almost amounted
to a tendre, for those five thoughtless virgins.--I have never made an acquaintance since,
that lasted; or a friendship, that answered; with any that had not some tincture of the absurd
in their characters. I venerate an honest obliquity of understanding. The more laughable blunders
a man shall commit in your company, the more tests he giveth you, that he will not betray or
overreach you. I love the safety, which a palpable hallucination warrants; the security, which
a word out of season ratifies. It is observed, that "the foolisher the fowl or fish,--woodcocks,--dotterels,--cod's-heads,
&c. the finer the flesh thereof," and what are commonly the world's received fools, but such
whereof the world is not worthy? and what have been some of the kindliest patterns of our species,
but so many darlings of absurdity, minions of the goddess, and, her white boys?--Reader, if
you wrest my words beyond their fair construction, it is you, and not I, that are the April Fool.

A QUAKER'S MEETING

  Still-born Silence! thou that art
  Flood-gate of the deeper heart!
  Offspring of a heavenly kind!
  Frost o' the mouth, and thaw o' the mind!
  Secrecy's confident, and he
  Who makes religion mystery!
  Admiration's speaking'st tongue!
  Leave, thy desert shades among,
  Reverend hermits' hallowed cells,
  Where retired devotion dwells!
  With thy enthusiasms come,
  Seize our tongues, and strike us dumb![1]

Reader, would'st thou know what true peace and quiet mean; would'st thou find a refuge from
the noises and clamours of the multitude; would'st thou enjoy at once solitude and society;
would'st thou possess the depth of thy own spirit in stillness, without being shut out from
the consolatory faces of thy species; would'st thou be alone, and yet accompanied; solitary,
yet not desolate; singular, yet not without some to keep thee in countenance; a unit in aggregate;
a simple in composite:--come with me into a Quaker's Meeting.

Dost thou love silence deep as that "before the winds were made?" go not out into the wilderness,
descend not into the profundities of the earth; shut not up thy casements; nor pour wax into
the little cells of thy ears, with little-faith'd self-mistrusting Ulysses.--Retire with me
into a Quaker's Meeting.

For a man to refrain even from good words, and to hold his peace, it is commendable; but for
a multitude, it is great mastery.

Reader, if you are not acquainted with it, I would recommend to you, above all church-narratives,
to read Sewel's History of the Quakers. It is in folio, and is the abstract of the journals
of Fox, and the primitive Friends. It is far more edifying and affecting than any thing you
will read of Wesley and his colleagues. Here is nothing to stagger you, nothing to make you
mistrust, no suspicion of alloy, no drop or dreg of the worldly or ambitious spirit. You will
here read the true story of that much-injured, ridiculed man (who perhaps hath been a by-word
in your mouth,)--James Naylor: what dreadful sufferings, with what patience, he endured even
to the boring through of his tongue with red-hot irons without a murmur; and with what strength
of mind, when the delusion he had fallen into, which they stigmatised for blasphemy, had given
way to clearer thoughts, he could renounce his error, in a strain of the beautifullest humility,
yet keep his first grounds, and be a Quaker still!--so different from the practice of your
common converts from enthusiasm, who, when they apostatize, apostatize all, and think they
can never get far enough from the society of their former errors, even to the renunciation
of some saving truths, with which they had been mingled, not implicated.

Get the Writings of John Woolman by heart; and love the early Quakers.

How far the followers of these good men in our days have kept to the primitive spirit, or in
what proportion they have substituted formality for it, the Judge of Spirits can alone determine.
I have seen faces in their assemblies, upon which the dove sate visibly brooding. Others again
I have watched, when my thoughts should have been better engaged, in which I could possibly
detect nothing but a blank inanity. But quiet was in all, and the disposition to unanimity,
and the absence of the fierce controversial workings.--If the spiritual pretensions of the
Quakers have abated, at least they make few pretences. Hypocrites they certainly are not, in
their preaching. It is seldom indeed that you shall see one get up amongst them to hold forth.
Only now and then a trembling, female, generally ancient, voice is heard--you cannot guess
from what part of the meeting it proceeds--with a low, buzzing, musical sound, laying out a
few words which "she thought might suit the condition of some present," with a quaking diffidence,
which leaves no possibility of supposing that any thing of female vanity was mixed up, where
the tones were so full of tenderness, and a restraining modesty.--The men, for what I observed,
speak seldomer.

Once only, and it was some years ago, I witnessed a sample of the old Foxian orgasm. It was
a man of giant stature, who, as Wordsworth phrases it, might have danced "from head to foot
equipt in iron mail." His frame was of iron too. But he was malleable. I saw him shake all
over with the spirit--I dare not say, of delusion. The strivings of the outer man were unutterable--he
seemed not to speak, but to be spoken from. I saw the strong man bowed down, and his knees
to fail--his joints all seemed loosening--it was a figure to set off against Paul Preaching--the
words he uttered were few, and sound--he was evidently resisting his will--keeping down his
own word-wisdom with more mighty effort, than the world's orators strain for theirs. "He had
been a WIT in his youth," he told us, with expressions of a sober remorse. And it was not till
long after the impression had begun to wear away, that I was enabled, with something like a
smile, to recall the striking incongruity of the confession--understanding the term in its
worldly acceptation--with the frame and physiognomy of the person before me. His brow would
have scared away the Levities--the Jocos Risus-que--faster than the Loves fled the face of
Dis at Enna.--By wit, even in his youth, I will be sworn he understood something far within
the limits of an allowable liberty. Every Quakeress is a lily; and when they come up in bands
to their Whitsun-conferences, whitening the easterly streets of the metropolis, from all parts
of the United Kingdom, they show like troops of the Shining Ones.

[Footnote 1: From "Poems of all sorts," by Richard Fleckno, 1653.]

THE OLD AND THE NEW SCHOOLMASTER

My reading has been lamentably desultory and immethodical. Odd, out of the way, old English
plays, and treatises, have supplied me with most of my notions, and ways of feeling. In every
thing that relates to science, I am a whole Encyclopædia behind the rest of the world. I should
have scarcely cut a figure among the franklins, or country gentlemen, in king John's days.
I know less geography than a school-boy of six weeks' standing. To me a map of old Ortelius
is as authentic as Arrowsmith. I do not know whereabout Africa merges into Asia; whether Ethiopia
lie in one or other of those great divisions; nor can form the remotest conjecture of the position
of New South Wales, or Van Diemen's Land. Yet do I hold a correspondence with a very dear friend
in the first-named of these two Terræ Incognitæ. I have no astronomy. I do not know where to
look for the Bear, or Charles's Wain; the place of any star; or the name of any of them at
sight. I guess at Venus only by her brightness--and if the sun on some portentous morn were
to make his first appearance in the West, I verily believe, that, while all the world were
gasping in apprehension about me, I alone should stand unterrified, from sheer incuriosity
and want of observation. Of history and chronology I possess some vague points, such as one
cannot help picking up in the course of miscellaneous study; but I never deliberately sat down
to a chronicle, even of my own country. I have most dim apprehensions of the four great monarchies;
and sometimes the Assyrian, sometimes the Persian, floats as first in my fancy. I make the
widest conjectures concerning Egypt, and her shepherd kings. I am entirely unacquainted with
the modern languages; and, like a better man than myself, have "small Latin and less Greek."
I am a stranger to the shapes and texture of the commonest trees, herbs, flowers--not from
the circumstance of my being town-born--for I should have brought the same inobservant spirit
into the world with me, had I first seen it in "on Devon's leafy shores,"--and am no less at
a loss among purely town-objects, tools, engines, mechanic processes.--Not that I affect ignorance--but
my head has not many mansions, nor spacious; and I have been obliged to fill it with such cabinet
curiosities as it can hold without aching. I sometimes wonder, how I have passed my probation
with so little discredit in the world, as I have done, upon so meagre a stock. But the fact
is, a man may do very well with a very little knowledge, and scarce be found out, in mixed
company; every body is so much more ready to produce his own, than to call for a display of
your acquisitions. But in a tête-à-tête there is no shuffling. The truth will out. There is
nothing which I dread so much, as the being left alone for a quarter of an hour with a sensible,
well-informed man, that does not know me. I lately got into a dilemma of this sort.--

In one of my daily jaunts between Bishopsgate and Shacklewell, the coach stopped to take up
a staid-looking gentleman, about the wrong side of thirty, who was giving his parting directions
(while the steps were adjusting), in a tone of mild authority, to a tall youth, who seemed
to be neither his clerk, his son, nor his servant, but something partaking of all three. The
youth was dismissed, and we drove on. As we were the sole passengers, he naturally enough addressed
his conversation to me; and we discussed the merits of the fare, the civility and punctuality
of the driver; the circumstance of an opposition coach having been lately set up, with the
probabilities of its success--to all which I was enabled to return pretty satisfactory answers,
having been drilled into this kind of etiquette by some years' daily practice of riding to
and fro in the stage aforesaid--when he suddenly alarmed me by a startling question, whether
I had seen the show of prize cattle that morning in Smithfield? Now as I had not seen it, and
do not greatly care for such sort of exhibitions, I was obliged to return a cold negative.
He seemed a little mortified, as well as astonished, at my declaration, as (it appeared) he
was just come fresh from the sight, and doubtless had hoped to compare notes on the subject.
However he assured me that I had lost a fine treat, as it far exceeded the show of last year.
We were now approaching Norton Falgate, when the sight of some shop-goods ticketed freshened
him up into a dissertation upon the cheapness of cottons this spring. I was now a little in
heart, as the nature of my morning avocations had brought me into some sort of familiarity
with the raw material; and I was surprised to find how eloquent I was becoming on the state
of the India market--when, presently, he dashed my incipient vanity to the earth at once, by
inquiring whether I had ever made any calculation as to the value of the rental of all the
retail shops in London. Had he asked of me, what song the Sirens sang, or what name Achilles
assumed when he hid himself among women, I might, with Sir Thomas Browne, have hazarded a "wide
solution."[1] My companion saw my embarrassment, and, the almshouses beyond Shoreditch just
coming in view, with great good-nature and dexterity shifted his conversation to the subject
of public charities; which led to the comparative merits of provision for the poor in past
and present times, with observations on the old monastic institutions, and charitable orders;--but,
finding me rather dimly impressed with some glimmering notions from old poetic associations,
than strongly fortified with any speculations reducible to calculation on the subject, he gave
the matter up; and, the country beginning to open more and more upon us, as we approached the
turnpike at Kingsland (the destined termination of his journey), he put a home thrust upon
me, in the most unfortunate position he could have chosen, by advancing some queries relative
to the North Pole Expedition. While I was muttering out something about the Panorama of those
strange regions (which I had actually seen), by way of parrying the question, the coach stopping
relieved me from any further apprehensions. My companion getting out, left me in the comfortable
possession of my ignorance; and I heard him, as he went off, putting questions to an outside
passenger, who had alighted with him, regarding an epidemic disorder, that had been rife about
Dalston; and which, my friend assured him, had gone through five or six schools in that neighbourhood.
The truth now flashed upon me, that my companion was a schoolmaster; and that the youth, whom
he had parted from at our first acquaintance, must have been one of the bigger boys, or the
usher.--He was evidently a kind-hearted man, who did not seem so much desirous of provoking
discussion by the questions which he put, as of obtaining information at any rate. It did not
appear that he took any interest, either, in such kind of inquiries, for their own sake; but
that he was in some way bound to seek for knowledge. A greenish-coloured coat, which he had
on, forbade me to surmise that he was a clergyman. The adventure gave birth to some reflections
on the difference between persons of his profession in past and present times.

Rest to the souls of those fine old Pedagogues; the breed, long since extinct, of the Lilys,
and the Linacres: who believing that all learning was contained in the languages which they
taught, and despising every other acquirement as superficial and useless, came to their task
as to a sport! Passing from infancy to age, they dreamed away all their days as in a grammar-school.
Revolving in a perpetual cycle of declensions, conjugations, syntaxes, and prosodies; renewing
constantly the occupations which had charmed their studious childhood; rehearsing continually
the part of the past; life must have slipped from them at last like one day. They were always
in their first garden, reaping harvests of their golden time, among their Flori and their Spici-legia;
in Arcadia still, but kings; the ferule of their sway not much harsher, but of like dignity
with that mild sceptre attributed to king Basileus; the Greek and Latin, their stately Pamela
and their Philoclea; with the occasional duncery of some untoward Tyro, serving for a refreshing
interlude of a Mopsa, or a clown Damætas!

With what a savour doth the Preface to Colet's, or (as it is sometimes called) Paul's Accidence,
set forth! "To exhort every man to the learning of grammar, that intendeth to attain the understanding
of the tongues, wherein is contained a great treasury of wisdom and knowledge, it would seem
but vain and lost labour; for so much as it is known, that nothing can surely be ended, whose
beginning is either feeble or faulty; and no building be perfect, whereas the foundation and
ground-work is ready to fall, and unable to uphold the burden of the frame." What a gusto in
that which follows: "wherein it is profitable that he can orderly decline his noun, and his
verb." His noun!

The fine dream is fading away fast; and the least concern of a teacher in the present day is
to inculcate grammar-rules.

The modern schoolmaster is expected to know a little of every thing, because his pupil is required
not to be entirely ignorant of any thing. He must be superficially, if I may so say, omniscient.
He is to know something of pneumatics; of chemistry; of whatever is curious, or proper to excite
the attention of the youthful mind; an insight into mechanics is desirable, with a touch of
statistics; the quality of soils, &c. botany, the constitution of his country, cum multis aliis.
You may get a notion of some part of his expected duties by consulting the famous Tractate
on Education addressed to Mr. Hartlib.

All these things--these, or the desire of them--he is expected to instil, not by set lessons
from professors, which he may charge in the bill, but at school-intervals, as he walks the
streets, or saunters through green fields (those natural instructors), with his pupils. The
least part of what is expected from him, is to be done in school-hours. He must insinuate knowledge
at the mollia tempera fandi. He must seize every occasion--the season of the year--the time
of the day--a passing cloud--a rainbow--a wagon of hay--a regiment of soldiers going by--to
inculcate something useful. He can receive no pleasure from a casual glimpse of Nature, but
must catch at it as an object of instruction. He must interpret beauty into the picturesque.
He cannot relish a beggar-man, or a gipsy, for thinking of the suitable improvement. Nothing
comes to him, not spoiled by the sophisticating medium of moral uses. The Universe--that Great
Book, as it has been called--is to him indeed, to all intents and purposes, a book, out of
which he is doomed to read tedious homilies to distasting schoolboys.--Vacations themselves
are none to him, he is only rather worse off than before; for commonly he has some intrusive
upper-boy fastened upon him at such times; some cadet of a great family; some neglected lump
of nobility, or gentry; that he must drag after him to the play, to the Panorama, to Mr. Bartley's
Orrery, to the Panopticon, or into the country, to a friend's house, or to his favourite watering-place.
Wherever he goes, this uneasy shadow attends him. A boy is at his board, and in his path, and
in all his movements. He is boy-rid, sick of perpetual boy. The restraint is felt no less on
the one side, than on the other.--Even a child, that "plaything for an hour," tires always.
The noises of children, playing their own fancies--as I now hearken to them by fits, sporting
on the green before my window, while I am engaged in these grave speculations at my neat suburban
retreat at Shacklewell--by distance made more sweet--inexpressibly take from the labour of
my task. It is like writing to music. They seem to modulate my periods. They ought at least
to do so--for in the voice of that tender age there is a kind of poetry, far unlike the harsh
prose-accents of man's conversation.--I should but spoil their sport, and diminish my own sympathy
for them, by mingling in their pastime.

I would not be domesticated all my days with a person of very superior capacity to my own--not,
if I know myself at all, from any considerations of jealousy or self-comparison, for the occasional
communion with such minds has constituted the fortune and felicity of my life--but the habit
of too constant intercourse with spirits above you, instead of raising you, keeps you down.
Too frequent doses of original thinking from others, restrain what lesser portion of that faculty
you may possess of your own. You get entangled in another man's mind, even as you lose yourself
in another man's grounds. You are walking with a tall varlet, whose strides out-pace yours
to lassitude. The constant operation of such potent agency would reduce me, I am convinced,
to imbecility. You may derive thoughts from others; your way of thinking, the mould in which
your thoughts are cast, must be your own. Intellect may be imparted, but not each man's intellectual
frame.--

As little as I should wish to be always thus dragged upwards, as little (or rather still less)
is it desirable to be stunted downwards by your associates. The trumpet does not more stun
you by its loudness, than a whisper teases you by its provoking inaudibility.

Why are we never quite at our ease in the presence of a schoolmaster?--because we are conscious
that he is not quite at his ease in ours. He is awkward, and out of place, in the society of
his equals. He comes like Gulliver from among his little people, and he cannot fit the stature
of his understanding to yours. He cannot meet you on the square. He wants a point given him,
like an indifferent whist-player. He is so used to teaching, that he wants to be teaching you.
They do not tell out of school. He is under the restraint of a formal and didactive hypocrisy
in company, as a clergyman is under a moral one. He can no more let his intellect loose in
society, than the other can his inclinations.--He is forlorn among his co-evals; his juniors
cannot be his friends.

"I take blame to myself," said a sensible man of this profession, writing to a friend respecting
a youth who had quitted his school abruptly, "that your nephew was not more attached to me.
But persons in my situation are more to be pitied, than can well be imagined. We are surrounded
by young, and, consequently, ardently affectionate hearts, but we can never hope to share an
atom of their affections. The relation of master and scholar forbids this. How pleasing this
must be to you, how I envy your feelings, my friends will sometimes say to me, when they see
young men, whom I have educated, return after some years absence from school, their eyes shining
with pleasure, while they shake hands with their old master, bringing a present of game to
me, or a toy to my wife, and thanking me in the warmest terms for my care of their education.
A holiday is begged for the boys; the house is a scene of happiness; I, only, am sad at heart--This
fine-spirited and warm-hearted youth, who fancies he repays his master with gratitude for the
care of his boyish years--this young man--in the eight long years I watched over him with a
parent's anxiety, never could repay me with one look of genuine feeling. He was proud, when
I praised; he was submissive, when I reproved him; but he did never love me--and what he now
mistakes for gratitude and kindness for me, is but the pleasant sensation, which all persons
feel at revisiting the scene of their boyish hopes and fears; and the seeing on equal terms
the man they were accustomed to look up to with reverence. My wife too," this interesting correspondent
goes on to say, "my once darling Anna, is the wife of a schoolmaster.--When I married her--knowing
that the wife of a schoolmaster ought to be a busy notable creature, and fearing that my gentle
Anna would ill supply the loss of my dear bustling mother, just then dead, who never sat still,
was in every part of the house in a moment, and whom I was obliged sometimes to threaten to
fasten down in a chair, to save her from fatiguing herself to death--I expressed my fears,
that I was bringing her into a way of life unsuitable to her; and she, who loved me tenderly,
promised for my sake to exert herself to perform the duties of her new situation. She promised,
and she has kept her word. What wonders will not woman's love perform?--My house is managed
with a propriety and decorum, unknown in other schools; my boys are well fed, look healthy,
and have every proper accommodation; and all this performed with a careful economy, that never
descends to meanness. But I have lost my gentle, helpless Anna!--When we sit down to enjoy
an hour of repose after the fatigue of the day, I am compelled to listen to what have been
her useful (and they are really useful) employments through the day, and what she proposes
for her to-morrow's task. Her heart and her features are changed by the duties of her situation.
To the boys, she never appears other than the master's wife, and she looks up to me as the
boys' master; to whom all show of love and affection would be highly improper, and unbecoming
the dignity of her situation and mine. Yet this my gratitude forbids me to hint to her. For
my sake she submitted to be this altered creature, and can I reproach her for it?"--For the
communication of this letter, I am indebted to my cousin Bridget.

[Footnote 1: Urn Burial.]

VALENTINE'S DAY

Hail to thy returning festival, old Bishop Valentine! Great is thy name in the rubric, thou
venerable Archflamen of Hymen! Immortal Go-between! who and what manner of person art thou?
Mysterious personage! like unto thee, assuredly, there is no other mitred father in the calendar;
not Jerome, nor Ambrose, nor Cyril; nor the consigner of undipt infants to eternal torments,
Austin, whom all mothers hate; nor he who hated all mothers, Origen; nor Bishop Bull, nor Archbishop
Parker, nor Whitgift.

In other words, this is the day on which those charming little missives, ycleped Valentines,
cross and intercross each other at every street and turning. The weary and all forspent twopenny
postman sinks beneath a load of delicate embarrassments, not his own. It is scarcely credible
to what an extent this ephemeral courtship is carried on in this loving town, to the great
enrichment of porters, and detriment of knockers and bell-wires. In these little visual interpretations,
no emblem is so common as the heart,--that little three-cornered exponent of all our hopes
and fears,--the bestuck and bleeding heart; it is twisted and tortured into more allegories
and affectations than an opera hat. What authority we have in history or mythology for placing
the head-quarters and metropolis of God Cupid in this anatomical seat rather than in any other,
is not very clear; but we have got it, and it will serve as well as any other. Else we might
easily imagine, upon some other system which might have prevailed for any thing which our pathology
knows to the contrary, a lover addressing his mistress, in perfect simplicity of feeling, "Madam,
my liver and fortune are entirely at your disposal;" or putting a delicate question, "Amanda,
have you a midriff to bestow?" But custom has settled these things, and awarded the seat of
sentiment to the aforesaid triangle, while its less fortunate neighbours wait at animal and
anatomical distance.

Not many sounds in life, and I include all urban and all rural sounds, exceed in interest a
knock at the door. It "gives a very echo to the throne where Hope is seated." But its issues
seldom answer to this oracle within. It is so seldom that just the person we want to see comes.
But of all the clamorous visitations the welcomest in expectation is the sound that ushers
in, or seems to usher in, a Valentine. As the raven himself was hoarse that announced the fatal
entrance of Duncan, so the knock of the postman on this day is light, airy, confident, and
befitting one that bringeth good tidings. It is less mechanical than on other days; you will
say, "That is not the post, I am sure." Visions of Love, of Cupids, of Hymens!--delightful
eternal common-places, which "having been will always be;" which no school-boy nor school-man
can write away; having your irreversible throne in the fancy and affections--what are your
transports, when the happy maiden, opening with careful finger, careful not to break the emblematic
seal, bursts upon the sight of some well-designed allegory, some type, some youthful fancy,
not without verses--

  Lovers all,
  A madrigal,

or some such device, not over abundant in sense--young Love disclaims it,--and not quite silly--something
between wind and water, a chorus where the sheep might almost join the shepherd, as they did,
or as I apprehend they did, in Arcadia.

All Valentines are not foolish; and I shall not easily forget thine, my kind friend (if I may
have leave to call you so) E. B.--E.B. lived opposite a young maiden, whom he had often seen,
unseen, from his parlour window in C--e-street. She was all joyousness and innocence, and just
of an age to enjoy receiving a Valentine, and just of a temper to bear the disappointment of
missing one with good humour. E.B. is an artist of no common powers; in the fancy parts of
designing, perhaps inferior to none; his name is known at the bottom of many a well executed
vignette in the way of his profession, but no further; for E.B. is modest, and the world meets
nobody half-way. E.B. meditated how he could repay this young maiden for many a favour which
she had done him unknown; for when a kindly face greets us, though but passing by, and never
knows us again, nor we it, we should feel it as an obligation; and E.B. did. This good artist
set himself at work to please the damsel. It was just before Valentine's day three years since.
He wrought, unseen and unsuspected, a wondrous work. We need not say it was on the finest gilt
paper with borders--full, not of common hearts and heartless allegory, but all the prettiest
stories of love from Ovid, and older poets than Ovid (for E.B. is a scholar.) There was Pyramus
and Thisbe, and be sure Dido was not forgot, nor Hero and Leander, and swans more than sang
in Cayster, with mottos and fanciful devices, such as beseemed,--a work in short of magic.
Iris dipt the woof. This on Valentine's eve he commended to the all-swallowing indiscriminate
orifice--(O ignoble trust!)--of the common post; but the humble medium did its duty, and from
his watchful stand, the next morning, he saw the cheerful messenger knock, and by and by the
precious charge delivered. He saw, unseen, the happy girl unfold the Valentine, dance about,
clap her hands, as one after one the pretty emblems unfolded themselves. She danced about,
not with light love, or foolish expectations, for she had no lover; or, if she had, none she
knew that could have created those bright images which delighted her. It was more like some
fairy present; a God-send, as our familiarly pious ancestors termed a benefit received, where
the benefactor was unknown. It would do her no harm. It would do her good for ever after. It
is good to love the unknown. I only give this as a specimen of E.B. and his modest way of doing
a concealed kindness.

Good-morrow to my Valentine, sings poor Ophelia; and no better wish, but with better auspices,
we wish to all faithful lovers, who are not too wise to despise old legends, but are content
to rank themselves humble diocesans of old Bishop Valentine, and his true church.

IMPERFECT SYMPATHIES

  I am of a constitution so general, that it consorts and sympathized
  with all things, I have no antipathy, or rather idiosyncracy in any
  thing. Those national repugnancies do not touch me, nor do I behold with
  prejudice the French, Italian, Spaniard, or Dutch.--Religio Medici.

That the author of the Religio Medici, mounted upon the airy stilts of abstraction, conversant
about notional and conjectural essences; in whose categories of Being the possible took the
upper hand of the actual; should have overlooked the impertinent individualities of such poor
concretions as mankind, is not much to be admired. It is rather to be wondered at, that in
the genus of animals he should have condescended to distinguish that species at all. For myself--earth-bound
and fettered to the scene of my activities,--

  Standing on earth, not rapt above the sky,

I confess that I do feel the differences of mankind, national or individual, to an unhealthy
excess. I can look with no indifferent eye upon things or persons. Whatever is, is to me a
matter of taste or distaste; or when once it becomes indifferent, it begins to be disrelishing.
I am, in plainer words, a bundle of prejudices--made up of likings and dislikings--the veriest
thrall to sympathies, apathies, antipathies. In a certain sense, I hope it may be said of me
that I am a lover of my species. I can feel for all indifferently, but I cannot feel towards
all equally. The more purely-English word that expresses sympathy will better explain my meaning.
I can be a friend to a worthy man, who upon another account cannot be my mate or fellow. I
cannot like all people alike.[1]

I have been trying all my life to like Scotchmen, and am obliged to desist from the experiment
in despair. They cannot like me--and in truth, I never knew one of that nation who attempted
to do it. There is something more plain and ingenuous in their mode of proceeding. We know
one another at first sight. There is an order of imperfect intellects (under which mine must
be content to rank) which in its constitution is essentially anti-Caledonian. The owners of
the sort of faculties I allude to, have minds rather suggestive than comprehensive. They have
no pretences to much clearness or precision in their ideas, or in their manner of expressing
them. Their intellectual wardrobe (to confess fairly) has few whole pieces in it. They are
content with fragments and scattered pieces of Truth. She presents no full front to them--a
feature or side-face at the most. Hints and glimpses, germs and crude essays at a system, is
the utmost they pretend to. They beat up a little game peradventure--and leave it to knottier
heads, more robust constitutions, to run it down. The light that lights them is not steady
and polar, but mutable and shifting: waxing, and again waning. Their conversation is accordingly.
They will throw out a random word in or out of season, and be content to let it pass for what
it is worth. They cannot speak always as if they were upon their oath--but must be understood,
speaking or writing, with some abatement. They seldom wait to mature a proposition, but e'en
bring it to market in the green ear. They delight to impart their defective discoveries as
they arise, without waiting for their full developement. They are no systematizers, and would
but err more by attempting it. Their minds, as I said before, are suggestive merely. The brain
of a true Caledonian (if I am not mistaken) is constituted upon quite a different plan. His
Minerva is born in panoply. You are never admitted to see his ideas in their growth--if, indeed,
they do grow, and are not rather put together upon principles of clock-work. You never catch
his mind in an undress. He never hints or suggests any thing, but unlades his stock of ideas
in perfect order and completeness. He brings his total wealth into company, and gravely unpacks
it. His riches are always about him. He never stoops to catch a glittering something in your
presence, to share it with you, before he quite knows whether it be true touch or not. You
cannot cry halves to any thing that he finds. He does not find, but bring. You never witness
his first apprehension of a thing. Is he orthodox--he has no doubts. Is he an infidel--he has
none either. Between the affirmative and the negative there is no border-land with him. You
cannot hover with him upon the confines of truth, or wander in the maze of a probable argument.
He always keeps the path. You cannot make excursions with him--for he sets you right. His taste
never fluctuates. His morality never abates. He cannot compromise, or understand middle actions.
There can be but a right and a wrong. His conversation is as a book. His affirmations have
the sanctity of an oath. You must speak upon the square with him. He stops a metaphor like
a suspected person in an enemy's country. "A healthy book!"--said one of his countrymen to
me, who had ventured to give that appellation to John Buncle,--"did I catch rightly what you
said? I have heard of a man in health, and of a healthy state of body, but I do not see how
that epithet can be properly applied to a book." Above all, you must beware of indirect expressions
before a Caledonian. Clap an extinguisher upon your irony, if you are unhappily blest with
a vein of it. Remember you are upon your oath. I have a print of a graceful female after Leonardo
da Vinci, which I was showing off to Mr. ****. After he had examined it minutely, I ventured
to ask him how he liked MY BEAUTY (a foolish name it goes by among my friends)--when he very
gravely assured me, that "he had considerable respect for my character and talents" (so he
was pleased to say), "but had not given himself much thought about the degree of my personal
pretensions." The misconception staggered me, but did not seem much to disconcert him.--Persons
of this nation are particularly fond of affirming a truth--which nobody doubts. They do not
so properly affirm, as annunciate it. They do indeed appear to have such a love of truth (as
if, like virtue, it were valuable for itself) that all truth becomes equally valuable, whether
the proposition that contains it be new or old, disputed, or such as is impossible to become
a subject of disputation. I was present not long since at a party of North Britons, where a
son of Burns was expected; and happened to drop a silly expression (in my South British way),
that I wished it were the father instead of the son--when four of them started up at once to
inform me, that "that was impossible, because he was dead." An impracticable wish, it seems,
was more than they could conceive. Swift has hit off this part of their character, namely their
love of truth, in his biting way, but with an illiberality that necessarily confines the passage
to the margin.[2] The tediousness of these people is certainly provoking. I wonder if they
ever tire one another!--In my early life I had a passionate fondness for the poetry of Burns.
I have sometimes foolishly hoped to ingratiate myself with his countrymen by expressing it.
But I have always found that a true Scot resents your admiration of his compatriot, even more
than he would your contempt of him. The latter he imputes to your "imperfect acquaintance with
many of the words which he uses;" and the same objection makes it a presumption in you to suppose
that you can admire him.--Thomson they seem to have forgotten. Smollett they have neither forgotten
nor forgiven for his delineation of Rory and his companion, upon their first introduction to
our metropolis.--peak of Smollett as a great genius, and they will retort upon you Hume's History
compared with his Continuation of it. What if the historian had continued Humphrey Clinker?

I have, in the abstract, no disrespect for Jews. They are a piece of stubborn antiquity, compared
with which Stonehenge is in its nonage. They date beyond the pyramids. But I should not care
to be in habits of familiar intercourse with any of that nation. I confess that I have not
the nerves to enter their synagogues. Old prejudices cling about me. I cannot shake off the
story of Hugh of Lincoln. Centuries of injury, contempt, and hate, on the one side,--of cloaked
revenge, dissimulation, and hate, on the other, between our and their fathers, must, and ought,
to affect the blood of the children. I cannot believe it can run clear and kindly yet; or that
a few fine words, such as candour, liberality, the light of a nineteenth century, can close
up the breaches of so deadly a disunion. A Hebrew is nowhere congenial to me. He is least distasteful
on 'Change--for the mercantile spirit levels all distinctions, as all are beauties in the dark.
I boldly confess that I do not relish the approximation of Jew and Christian, which has become
so fashionable. The reciprocal endearments have, to me, something hypocritical and unnatural
in them. I do not like to see the Church and Synagogue kissing and congeeing in awkward postures
of an affected civility. If they are converted, why do they not come over to us altogether?
Why keep up a form of separation, when the life of it is fled? If they can sit with us at table,
why do they keck at our cookery? I do not understand these half convertites. Jews christianizing--Christians
judaizing--puzzle me. I like fish or flesh. A moderate Jew is a more confounding piece of anomaly
than a wet Quaker. The spirit of the synagogue is essentially separative. B---- would have
been more in keeping if he had abided by the faith of his forefathers. There is a fine scorn
in his face, which nature meant to be of ---- Christians. The Hebrew spirit is strong in him,
in spite of his proselytism. He cannot conquer the Shibboleth. How it breaks out, when he sings,
"The Children of Israel passed through the Red Sea!" The auditors, for the moment, are as Egyptians
to him, and he rides over our necks in triumph. There is no mistaking him.--B---- has a strong
expression of sense in his countenance, and it is confirmed by his singing. The foundation
of his vocal excellence is sense. He sings with understanding, as Kemble delivered dialogue.
He would sing the Commandments, and give an appropriate character to each prohibition. His
nation, in general, have not ever-sensible countenances. How should they?--but you seldom see
a silly expression among them. Gain, and the pursuit of gain, sharpen a man's visage. I never
heard of an idiot being born among them.--Some admire the Jewish female physiognomy. I admire
it--but with trembling. Jael had those full dark inscrutable eyes.

In the Negro countenance you will often meet with strong traits of benignity. I have felt yearnings
of tenderness towards some of these faces--or rather masks--that have looked out kindly upon
one in casual encounters in the streets and highways. I love what Fuller beautifully calls--these
"images of God cut in ebony." But I should not like to associate with them, to share my meals
and my good-nights with them--because they are black. I am all over sophisticated--with humours,
fancies, craving hourly sympathy. I must have books, pictures, theatres, chit-chat, scandal,
jokes, ambiguities, and a thousand whim-whams, which their simpler taste can do without. I
should starve at their primitive banquet. My appetites are too high for the salads which (according
to Evelyn) Eve dressed for the angel, my gusto too excited

  To sit a guest with Daniel at his pulse.

The indirect answers which Quakers are often found to return to a question put to them may
be explained, I think, without the vulgar assumption, that they are more given to evasion and
equivocating than other people. They naturally look to their words more carefully, and are
more cautious of committing themselves. They have a peculiar character to keep up on this head.
They stand in a manner upon their veracity. A Quaker is by law exempted from taking an oath.
The custom of resorting to an oath in extreme cases, sanctified as it is by all religious antiquity,
is apt (it must be confessed) to introduce into the laxer sort of minds the notion of two kinds
of truth--the one applicable to the solemn affairs of justice, and the other to the common
proceedings of daily intercourse. As truth bound upon the conscience by an oath can be but
truth, so in the common affirmations of the shop and the market-place a latitude is expected,
and conceded upon questions wanting this solemn covenant. Something less than truth satisfies.
It is common to hear a person say, "You do not expect me to speak as if I were upon my oath."
Hence a great deal of incorrectness and inadvertency, short of falsehood, creeps into ordinary
conversation; and a kind of secondary or laic-truth is tolerated, where clergy-truth--oath-truth,
by the nature of the circumstances, is not required. A Quaker knows none of this distinction.
His simple affirmation being received, upon the most sacred occasions, without any further
test, stamps a value upon the words which he is to use upon the most indifferent topics of
life. He looks to them, naturally, with more severity. You can have of him no more than his
word. He knows, if he is caught tripping in a casual expression, he forfeits, for himself,
at least, his claim to the invidious exemption. He knows that his syllables are weighed--and
how far a consciousness of this particular watchfulness, exerted against a person, has a tendency
to produce indirect answers, and a diverting of the question by honest means, might be illustrated,
and the practice justified, by a more sacred example than is proper to be adduced upon this
occasion. The admirable presence of mind, which is notorious in Quakers upon all contingencies,
might be traced to this imposed self-watchfulness--if it did not seem rather an humble and
secular scion of that old stock of religious constancy, which never bent or faltered, in the
Primitive Friends, or gave way to the winds of persecution, to the violence of judge or accuser,
under trials and racking examinations. "You will never be the wiser, if I sit here answering
your questions till midnight," said one of those upright Justicers to Penn, who had been putting
law-cases with a puzzling subtlety. "Thereafter as the answers may be," retorted the Quaker.
To my great surprise, not a syllable was dropped on the subject.

[Footnote 1: I would be understood as confining myself to the subject of imperfect sympathies.
To nations or classes of men there can be no direct antipathy. There may be individuals born
and constellated so opposite to another individual nature, that the same sphere cannot hold
them. I have met with my moral antipodes, and can believe the story of two persons meeting
(who never saw one another before in their lives) and instantly fighting.

  --We by proof find there should be
  Twixt man and man such an antipathy,
  That though he can show no just reason why
  For any former wrong or injury,
  Can neither find a blemish in his fame,
  Nor aught in face or feature justly blame,
  Can challenge or accuse him of no evil,
  Yet notwithstanding hates him as a devil. In the relations of this visible
world we find them to have been as rational, and shrewd to detect an
historic anomaly, as ourselves. But when once the invisible world
was supposed to be opened, and the lawless agency of bad spirits
assumed, what measures of probability, of decency, of fitness, or
proportion--of that which distinguishes the likely from the palpable
absurd--could they have to guide them in the rejection or admission
of any particular testimony?--That maidens pined away, wasting
inwardly as their waxen images consumed before a fire--that corn was
lodged, and cattle lamed--that whirlwinds uptore in diabolic revelry
the oaks of the forest--or that spits and kettles only danced a
fearful-innocent vagary about some rustic's kitchen when no wind
was stirring--were all equally probable where no law of agency was
understood. That the prince of the powers of darkness, passing by the
flower and pomp of the earth, should lay preposterous siege to the
weak fantasy of indigent eld--has neither likelihood nor unlikelihood
à priori to us, who have no measure to guess at his policy, or
standard to estimate what rate those anile souls may fetch in the
devil's market. Nor, when the wicked are expressly symbolized by
a goat, was it to be wondered at so much, that he should come
sometimes in that body, and assert his metaphor.--That the intercourse
was opened at all between both worlds was perhaps the mistake--but
that once assumed, I see no reason for disbelieving one attested story
of this nature more than another on the score of absurdity. There
is no law to judge of the lawless, or canon by which a dream may be
criticised.

I have sometimes thought that I could not have existed in the days of received witchcraft;
that I could not have slept in a village where one of those reputed hags dwelt. Our ancestors
were bolder or more obtuse. Amidst the universal belief that these wretches were in league
with the author of all evil, holding hell tributary to their muttering, no simple Justice of
the Peace seems to have scrupled issuing, or silly Headborough serving, a warrant upon them--as
if they should subpoena Satan!--Prospero in his boat, with his books and wand about him, suffers
himself to be conveyed away at the mercy of his enemies to an unknown island. He might have
raised a storm or two, we think, on the passage. His acquiescence is in exact analogy to the
non-resistance of witches to the constituted powers.--What stops the Fiend in Spenser from
tearing Guyon to pieces--or who had made it a condition of his prey, that Guyon must take assay
of the glorious bait--we have no guess. We do not know the laws of that country.

From my childhood I was extremely inquisitive about witches and witch-stories. My maid, and
more legendary aunt, supplied me with good store. But I shall mention the accident which directed
my curiosity originally into this channel. In my father's book-closet, the History of the Bible,
by Stackhouse, occupied a distinguished station. The pictures with which it abounds--one of
the ark, in particular, and another of Solomon's temple, delineated with all the fidelity of
ocular admeasurement, as if the artist had been upon the spot--attracted my childish attention.
There was a picture, too, of the Witch raising up Samuel, which I wish that I had never seen.
We shall come to that hereafter. Stackhouse is in two huge tomes--and there was a pleasure
in removing folios of that magnitude, which, with infinite straining, was as much as I could
manage, from the situation which they occupied upon an upper shelf. I have not met with the
work from that time to this, but I remember it consisted of Old Testament stories, orderly
set down, with the objection appended to each story, and the solution of the objection regularly
tacked to that. The objection was a summary of whatever difficulties had been opposed to the
credibility of the history, by the shrewdness of ancient or modern infidelity, drawn up with
an almost complimentary excess of candour. The solution was brief, modest, and satisfactory.
The bane and antidote were, both before you. To doubts so put, and so quashed, there seemed
to be an end for ever. The dragon lay dead, for the foot of the veriest babe to trample on.
But--like as was rather feared than realised from that slain monster in Spenser--from the womb
of those crushed errors young dragonets would creep, exceeding the prowess of so tender a Saint
George as myself to vanquish. The habit of expecting objections to every passage, set me upon
starting more objections, for the glory of finding a solution of my own for them. I became
staggered and perplexed, a sceptic in long coats. The pretty Bible stories which I had read,
or heard read in church, lost their purity and sincerity of impression, and were turned into
so many historic or chronologic theses to be defended against whatever impugners. I was not
to disbelieve them, but--the next thing to that--I was to be quite sure that some one or other
would or had disbelieved them. Next to making a child an infidel, is the letting him know that
there are infidels at all. Credulity is the man's weakness, but the child's strength. O, how
ugly sound scriptural doubts from the mouth of a babe and a suckling!--I should have lost myself
in these mazes, and have pined away, I think, with such unfit sustenance as these husks afforded,
but for a fortunate piece of ill-fortune, which about this time befel me. Turning over the
picture of the ark with too much haste, I unhappily made a breach in its ingenious fabric--driving
my inconsiderate fingers right through the two larger quadrupeds--the elephant, and the camel--that
stare (as well they might) out of the two last windows next the steerage in that unique piece
of naval architecture. Stackhouse was henceforth locked up, and became an interdicted treasure.
With the book, the objections and solutions gradually cleared out of my head, and have seldom
returned since in any force to trouble me.--But there was one impression which I had imbibed
from Stackhouse, which no lock or bar could shut out, and which was destined to try my childish
nerves rather more seriously.--That detestable picture!

I was dreadfully alive to nervous terrors. The night-time solitude, and the dark, were my hell.
The sufferings I endured in this nature would justify the expression. I never laid my head
on my pillow, I suppose, from the fourth to the seventh or eighth year of my life--so far as
memory serves in things so long ago--without an assurance, which realized its own prophecy,
of seeing some frightful spectre. Be old Stackhouse then acquitted in part, if I say, that
to his picture of the Witch raising up Samuel--(O that old man covered with a mantle!) I owe--not
my midnight terrors, the hell of my infancy--but the shape and manner of their visitation.
It was he who dressed up for me a hag that nightly sate upon my pillow--a sure bed-fellow,
when my aunt or my maid was far from me. All day long, while the book was permitted me, I dreamed
waking over his delineation, and at night (if I may use so bold an expression) awoke into sleep,
and found the vision true. I durst not, even in the day-light, once enter the chamber where
I slept, without my face turned to the window, aversely from the bed where my witch-ridden
pillow was.--Parents do not know what they do when they leave tender babes alone to go to sleep
in the dark. The feeling about for a friendly arm--the hoping for a familiar voice--when they
wake screaming--and find none to soothe them--what a terrible shaking it is to their poor nerves!
The keeping them up till midnight, through candle-light and the unwholesome hours, as they
are called,--would, I am satisfied, in a medical point of view, prove the better caution.--That
detestable picture, as I have said, gave the fashion to my dreams--if dreams they were--for
the scene of them was invariably the room in which I lay. Dear little T.H. who of all children
has been brought up with the most scrupulous exclusion of every taint of superstition--who
was never allowed to hear of goblin or apparition, or scarcely to be told of bad men, or to
read or hear of any distressing story--finds all this world of fear, from which he has been
so rigidly excluded ab extra, in his own "thick-coming fancies;" and from his little midnight
pillow, this nurse-child of optimism will start at shapes, unborrowed of tradition, in sweats
to which the reveries of the cell-damned murderer are tranquillity.

Gorgons, and Hydras, and Chimæras--dire stories of Celæno and the Harpies--may reproduce themselves
in the brain of superstition--but they were there before. They are transcripts, types--the
archetypes are in us, and eternal. How else should the recital of that, which we know in a
waking sense to be false, come to affect us at all?--or

  --Names, whose sense we see not,
  Fray us with things that be not?

Is it that we naturally conceive terror from such objects, considered in their capacity of
being able to inflict upon us bodily injury?--O, least of all! These terrors are of older standing.
They date beyond body--or, without the body, they would have been the same.

My night-fancies have long ceased to be afflictive. I confess an occasional night-mare; but
I do not, as in early youth, keep a stud of them. Fiendish faces, with the extinguished taper,
will come and look at me; but I know them for mockeries, even while I cannot elude their presence,
and I fight and grapple with them. For the credit of my imagination, I am almost ashamed to
say how tame and prosaic my dreams are grown. They are never romantic, seldom even rural. They
are of architecture and of buildings--cities abroad, which I have never seen, and hardly have
hope to see. I have traversed, for the seeming length of a natural day, Rome, Amsterdam, Paris,
Lisbon--their churches, palaces, squares, market-places, shops, suburbs, ruins, with an inexpressible
sense of delight--a map-like distinctness of trace--and a day-light vividness of vision, that
was all but being awake.--I have formerly travelled among the Westmoreland fells--my highest
Alps,--but they are objects too mighty for the grasp of my dreaming recognition; and I have
again and again awoke with ineffectual struggles of the inner eye, to make out a shape in any
way whatever, of Helvellyn. Methought I was in that country, but the mountains were gone. The
poverty of my dreams mortifies me. There is Coleridge, at his will can conjure up icy domes,
and pleasure-houses for Kubla Khan, and Abyssinian maids, and songs of Abara, and caverns,

  Where Alph, the sacred river, runs,

to solace his night solitudes--when I cannot muster a fiddle. Barry Cornwall has his tritons
and his nereids gamboling before him in nocturnal visions, and proclaiming sons born to Neptune--when
my stretch of imaginative activity can hardly, in the night season, raise up the ghost of a
fish-wife. To set my failures in somewhat a mortifying light--it was after reading the noble
Dream of this poet, that my fancy ran strong upon these marine spectra; and the poor plastic
power, such as it is, within me set to work, to humour my folly in a sort of dream that very
night. Methought I was upon the ocean billows at some sea nuptials, riding and mounted high,
with the customary train sounding their conchs before me, (I myself, you may be sure, the leading
god,) and jollily we went careering over the main, till just where Ino Leucothea should have
greeted me (I think it was Ino) with a white embrace, the billows gradually subsiding, fell
from a sea-roughness to a sea-calm, and thence to a river-motion, and that river (as happens
in the familiarization of dreams) was no other than the gentle Thames, which landed me, in
the wafture of a placid wave or two, alone, safe and inglorious, somewhere at the foot of Lambeth
palace.

The degree of the soul's creativeness in sleep might furnish no whimsical criterion of the
quantum of poetical faculty resident in the same soul waking. An old gentleman, a friend of
mine, and a humorist, used to carry this notion so far, that when he saw any stripling of his
acquaintance ambitious of becoming a poet, his first question would be,--"Young man, what sort
of dreams have you?" I have so much faith in my old friend's theory, that when I feel that
idle vein returning upon me, I presently subside into my proper element of prose, remembering
those eluding nereids, and that inauspicious inland landing.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.]

MY RELATIONS

I am arrived at that point of life, at which a man may account it a blessing, as it is a singularity,
if he have either of his parents surviving. I have not that felicity--and sometimes think feelingly
of a passage in Browne's Christian Morals, where he speaks of a man that hath lived sixty or
seventy years in the world. "In such a compass of time," he says, "a man may have a close apprehension
what it is to be forgotten, when he hath lived to find none who could remember his father,
or scarcely the friends of his youth, and may sensibly see with what a face in no long time
OBLIVION will look upon himself."

I had an aunt, a dear and good one. She was one whom single blessedness had soured to the world.
She often used to say, that I was the only thing in it which she loved; and, when she thought
I was quitting it, she grieved over me with mother's tears. A partiality quite so exclusive
my reason cannot altogether approve. She was from morning till night poring over good books,
and devotional exercises. Her favourite volumes were Thomas à Kempis, in Stanhope's Translation;
and a Roman Catholic Prayer Book, with the matins and complines regularly set down,--terms
which I was at that time too young to understand. She persisted in reading them, although admonished
daily concerning their Papistical tendency; and went to church every Sabbath, as a good Protestant
should do. These were the only books she studied; though, I think, at one period of her life,
she told me, she had read with great satisfaction the Adventures of an Unfortunate Young Nobleman.
Finding the door of the chapel in Essex-street open one day--it was in the infancy of that
heresy--she went in, liked the sermon, and the manner of worship, and frequented it at intervals
for some time after. She came not for doctrinal points, and never missed them. With some little
asperities in her constitution, which I have above hinted at, she was a steadfast, friendly
being, and a fine old Christian. She was a woman of strong sense, and a shrewd mind--extraordinary
at a repartee; one of the few occasions of her breaking silence--else she did not much value
wit. The only secular employment I remember to have seen her engaged in, was, the splitting
of French beans, and dropping them into a China basin of fair water. The odour of those tender
vegetables to this day comes back upon my sense, redolent of soothing recollections. Certainly
it is the most delicate of culinary operations.

Male aunts, as somebody calls them, I had none--to remember. By the uncle's side I may be said
to have been born an orphan. Brother, or sister, I never had any--to know them. A sister, I
think, that should have been Elizabeth, died in both our infancies. What a comfort, or what
a care, may I not have missed in her!--But I have cousins, sprinkled about in Hertfordshire--besides
two, with whom I have been all my life in habits of the closest intimacy, and whom I may term
cousins par excellence. These are James and Bridget Elia. They are older than myself by twelve,
and ten, years; and neither of them seems disposed, in matters of advice and guidance, to waive
any of the prerogatives which primogeniture confers. May they continue still in the same mind;
and when they shall be seventy-five, and seventy-three, years old (I cannot spare them sooner),
persist in treating me in my grand climacteric precisely as a stripling, or younger brother!

James is an inexplicable cousin. Nature hath her unities, which not every critic can penetrate;
or, if we feel, we cannot explain them. The pen of Yorick, and of none since his, could have
drawn J.E. entire--those fine Shandian lights and shades, which make up his story. I must limp
after in my poor antithetical manner, as the fates have given me grace and talent. J.E. then--to
the eye of a common observer at least--seemeth made up of contradictory principles.--The genuine
child of impulse, the frigid philosopher of prudence--the phlegm of my cousin's doctrine is
invariably at war with his temperament, which is high sanguine. With always some fire-new project
in his brain, J.E. is the systematic opponent of innovation, and crier down of every thing
that has not stood the test of age and experiment. With a hundred fine notions chasing one
another hourly in his fancy, he is startled at the least approach to the romantic in others;
and, determined by his own sense in every thing, commends you to the guidance of common sense
on all occasions.--With a touch of the eccentric in all which he does, or says, he is only
anxious that you should not commit yourself by doing any thing absurd or singular. On my once
letting slip at table, that I was not fond of a certain popular dish, he begged me at any rate
not to say so--for the world would think me mad. He disguises a passionate fondness for works
of high art (whereof he hath amassed a choice collection), under the pretext of buying only
to sell again--that his enthusiasm may give no encouragement to yours. Yet, if it were so,
why does that piece of tender, pastoral Dominichino hang still by his wall?--is the ball of
his sight much more dear to him?--or what picture-dealer can talk like him?

Whereas mankind in general are observed to warp their speculative conclusions to the bent of
their individual humours, his theories are sure to be in diametrical opposition to his constitution.
He is courageous as Charles of Sweden, upon instinct; chary of his person, upon principle,
as a travelling Quaker.--He has been preaching up to me, all my life, the doctrine of bowing
to the great--the necessity of forms, and manner, to a man's getting on in the world. He himself
never aims at either, that I can discover,--and has a spirit, that would stand upright in the
presence of the Cham of Tartary. It is pleasant to hear him discourse of patience--extolling
it as the truest wisdom--and to see him during the last seven minutes that his dinner is getting
ready. Nature never ran up in her haste a more restless piece of workmanship than when she
moulded this impetuous cousin--and Art never turned out a more elaborate orator than he can
display himself to be, upon his favourite topic of the advantages of quiet, and contentedness
in the state, whatever it may be, that we are placed in. He is triumphant on this theme, when
he has you safe in one of those short stages that ply for the western road, in a very obstructing
manner, at the foot of John Murray's street--where you get in when it is empty, and are expected
to wait till the vehicle hath completed her just freight--a trying three quarters of an hour
to some people. He wonders at your fidgetiness,--"where could we be better than we are, thus
silting, thus consulting?"--"prefers, for his part, a state of rest to locomotion,"--with an
eye all the while upon the coachman--till at length, waxing out of all patience, at your want
of it, he breaks out into a pathetic remonstrance at the fellow for detaining us so long over
the time which he had professed, and declares peremptorily, that "the gentleman in the coach
is determined to get out, if he does not drive on that instant."

Very quick at inventing an argument, or detecting a sophistry, he is incapable of attending
you in any chain of arguing. Indeed he makes wild work with logic; and seems to jump at most
admirable conclusions by some process, not at all akin to it. Consonantly enough to this, he
hath been heard to deny, upon certain occasions, that there exists such a faculty at all in
man as reason; and wondereth how man came first to have a conceit of it--enforcing his negation
with all the might of reasoning he is master of. He has some speculative notions against laughter,
and will maintain that laughing is not natural to him--when peradventure the next moment his
lungs shall crow like Chanticleer. He says some of the best things in the world--and declareth
that wit is his aversion. It was he who said, upon seeing the Eton boys at play in their grounds--What
a pity to think, that these fine ingenuous lads in a few years will all be changed into frivolous
Members of Parliament!

His youth was fiery, glowing, tempestuous--and in age he discovereth no symptom of cooling.
This is that which I admire in him. I hate people who meet Time half-way. I am for no compromise
with that inevitable spoiler. While he lives, J.E. will take his swing.--It does me good, as
I walk towards the street of my daily avocation, on some fine May morning, to meet him marching
in a quite opposite direction, with a jolly handsome presence, and shining sanguine face, that
indicates some purchase in his eye--a Claude--or a Hobbima--for much of his enviable leisure
is consumed at Christie's, and Phillips's--or where not, to pick up pictures, and such gauds.
On these occasions he mostly stoppeth me, to read a short lecture on the advantage a person
like me possesses above himself, in having his time occupied with business which he must do--assureth
me that he often feels it hang heavy on his hands--wishes he had fewer holidays--and goes off--Westward
Ho!--chanting a tune, to Pall Mall--perfectly convinced that he has convinced me--while I proceed
in my opposite direction tuneless.

It is pleasant again to see this Professor of Indifference doing the honours of his new purchase,
when he has fairly housed it. You must view it in every light, till he has found the best--placing
it at this distance, and at that, but always suiting the focus of your sight to his own. You
must spy at it through your fingers, to catch the aërial perspective--though you assure him
that to you the landscape shows much more agreeable without that artifice. Wo be to the luckless
wight, who does not only not respond to his rapture, but who should drop an unseasonable intimation
of preferring one of his anterior bargains to the present!--The last is always his best hit--his
"Cynthia of the minute."--Alas! how many a mild Madonna have I known to come in--a Raphael!--keep
its ascendancy for a few brief moons--then, after certain intermedial degradations, from the
front drawing-room to the back gallery, thence to the dark parlour,--adopted in turn by each
of the Carracci, under successive lowering ascriptions of filiation, mildly breaking its fall--consigned
to the oblivious lumber-room, go out at last a Lucca Giordano, or plain Carlo Maratti!--which
things when I beheld--musing upon the chances and mutabilities of fate below, hath made me
to reflect upon the altered condition of great personages, or that woful Queen of Richard the
Second--

                     --set forth in pomp,
  She came adorned hither like sweet May.
  Sent back like Hollowmass or shortest day.

With great love for you, J.E. hath but a limited sympathy with what you feel or do. He lives
in a world of his own, and makes slender guesses at what passes in your mind. He never pierces
the marrow of your habits. He will tell an old established play-goer, that Mr. Such-a-one,
of So-and-so (naming one of the theatres), is a very lively comedian--as a piece of news! He
advertised me but the other day of some pleasant green lanes which he had found out for me,
knowing me to be a great walker, in my own immediate vicinity--who have haunted the identical
spot any time these twenty years! He has not much respect for that class of feelings which
goes by the name of sentimental. He applies the definition of real evil to bodily sufferings
exclusively--and rejecteth all others as imaginary. He is affected by the sight, or the bare
supposition, of a creature in pain, to a degree which I have never witnessed out of womankind.
A constitutional acuteness to this class of sufferings may in part account for this. The animal
tribe in particular he taketh under his especial protection. A broken-winded or spur-galled
horse is sure to find an advocate in him. An over-loaded ass is his client for ever. He is
the apostle to the brute kind--the never-failing friend of those who have none to care for
them. The contemplation of a lobster boiled, or eels skinned alive, will wring him so, that
"all for pity he could die." It will take the savour from his palate, and the rest from his
pillow, for days and nights. With the intense feeling of Thomas Clarkson, he wanted only the
steadiness of pursuit, and unity of purpose, of that "true yolk-fellow with Time," to have
effected as much for the Animal, as he hath done for the Negro Creation. But my uncontrollable
cousin is but imperfectly formed for purposes which demand co-operation. He cannot wait. His
amelioration-plans must be ripened in a day. For this reason he has cut but an equivocal figure
in benevolent societies, and combinations for the alleviation of human sufferings. His zeal
constantly makes him to outrun, and put out, his coadjutors. He thinks of relieving,--while
they think of debating. He was black-balled out of a society for the Relief of **********,
because the fervor of his humanity toiled beyond the formal apprehension, and creeping processes,
of his associates. I shall always consider this distinction as a patent of nobility in the
Elia family! Do I mention these seeming inconsistencies to smile at, or upbraid, my unique
cousin? Marry, heaven, and all good manners, and the understanding that should be between kinsfolk,
forbid!--With all the strangenesses of this strangest of the Elias--I would not have him in
one jot or tittle other than he is; neither would I barter or exchange my wild kinsman for
the most exact, regular, and everyway consistent kinsman breathing.

In my next, reader, I may perhaps give you some account of my cousin Bridget--if you are not
already surfeited with cousins--and take you by the hand, if you are willing to go with us,
on an excursion which we made a summer or two since, in search of more cousins--

  Through the green plains of pleasant Hertfordshire. Our sympathies are rather understood, than
expressed; and once, upon my dissembling a tone in my voice more kind
than ordinary, my cousin burst into tears, and complained that I was
altered. We are both great readers in different directions. While I am
hanging over (for the thousandth time) some passage in old Burton, or
one of his strange contemporaries, she is abstracted in some modern
tale, or adventure, whereof our common reading-table is daily fed with
assiduously fresh supplies. Narrative teazes me. I have little concern
in the progress of events. She must have a story--well, ill, or
indifferently told--so there be life stirring in it, and plenty of
good or evil accidents. The fluctuations of fortune in fiction--and
almost in real life--have ceased to interest, or operate but dully
upon me. Out-of-the-way humours and opinions--heads with some
diverting twist in them--the oddities of authorship please me most. My
cousin has a native disrelish of any thing that sounds odd or bizarre.
Nothing goes down with her, that is quaint, irregular, or out of the
road of common sympathy. She "holds Nature more clever." I can pardon
her blindness to the beautiful obliquities of the Religio Medici; but
she must apologise to me for certain disrespectful insinuations, which
she has been pleased to throw out latterly, touching the intellectuals
of a dear favourite of mine, of the last century but one--the thrice
noble, chaste, and virtuous,--but again somewhat fantastical, and
original-brain'd, generous Margaret Newcastle.

It has been the lot of my cousin, oftener perhaps than I could have wished, to have had for
her associates and mine, free-thinkers--leaders, and disciples, of novel philosophies and systems;
but she neither wrangles with, nor accepts, their opinions. That which was good and venerable
to her, when a child, retains its authority over her mind still. She never juggles or plays
tricks with her understanding.

We are both of us inclined to be a little too positive; and I have observed the result of our
disputes to be almost uniformly this--that in matters of fact, dates, and circumstances, it
turns out, that I was in the right, and my cousin in the wrong. But where we have differed
upon moral points; upon something proper to be done, or let alone; whatever heat of opposition,
or steadiness of conviction, I set out with, I am sure always, in the long run, to be brought
over to her way of thinking.

I must touch upon the foibles of my kinswoman with a gentle hand, for Bridget does not like
to be told of her faults. She hath an awkward trick (to say no worse of it) of reading in company:
at which times she will answer yes or no to a question, without fully understanding its purport--which
is provoking, and derogatory in the highest degree to the dignity of the putter of the said
question. Her presence of mind is equal to the most pressing trials of life, but will sometimes
desert her upon trifling occasions. When the purpose requires it, and is a thing of moment,
she can speak to it greatly; but in matters which are not stuff of the conscience, she hath
been known sometimes to let slip a word less seasonably.

In a season of distress, she is the truest comforter; but in the teazing accidents, and minor
perplexities, which do not call out the will to meet them, she sometimes maketh matters worse
by an excess of participation. If she does not always divide your trouble, upon the pleasanter
occasions of life she is sure always to treble your satisfaction. She is excellent to be at
a play with, or upon a visit; but best, when she goes a journey with you.

We made an excursion together a few summers since, into Hertfordshire, to beat up the quarters
of some of our less-known relations in that fine corn country. More than forty years had elapsed
since the visit I speak of; and, for the greater portion of that period, we had lost sight
of the other two branches also. Who or what sort of persons inherited Mackery End--kindred
or strange folk--we were afraid almost to conjecture, but determined some day to explore.

By somewhat a circuitous route, taking the noble park at Luton in our way from Saint Alban's,
we arrived at the spot of our anxious curiosity about noon. The sight of the old farm-house,
though every trace of it was effaced from my recollection, affected me with a pleasure which
I had not experienced for many a year. For though I had forgotten it, we had never forgotten
being there together, and we had been talking about Mackery End all our lives, till memory
on my part became mocked with a phantom of itself, and I thought I knew the aspect of a place,
which, when present, O how unlike it was to that, which I had conjured up so many times instead
of it!

Bridget's was more a waking bliss than mine, for she easily remembered her old acquaintance
again--some altered features, of course, a little grudged at. At first, indeed, she was ready
to disbelieve for joy; but the scene soon re-confirmed itself in her affections--and she traversed
every out-post of the old mansion, to the wood-house, the orchard, the place where the pigeon-house
had stood (house and birds were alike flown)--with a breathless impatience of recognition,
which was more pardonable perhaps than decorous at the age of fifty odd. But Bridget in some
things is behind her years.

The only thing left was to get into the house--and that was a difficulty which to me singly
would have been insurmountable; for I am terribly shy in making myself known to strangers and
out-of-date kinsfolk. Love, stronger than scruple, winged my cousin in without me; but she
soon returned with a creature that might have sat to a sculptor for the image of Welcome. It
was the youngest of the Gladmans; who, by marriage with a Bruton, had become mistress of the
old mansion. A comely brood are the Brutons. Six of them, females, were noted as the handsomest
young women in the county. But this adopted Bruton, in my mind, was better than they all--more
comely. She was born too late to have remembered me. She just recollected in early life to
have had her cousin Bridget once pointed out to her, climbing a style. But the name of kindred,
and of cousinship, was enough. Those slender ties, that prove slight as gossamer in the rending
atmosphere of a metropolis, bind faster, as we found it, in hearty, homely, loving Hertfordshire.
In five minutes we were as thoroughly acquainted as if we had been born and bred up together;
were familiar, even to the calling each other by our Christian names. So Christians should
call one another. To have seen Bridget, and her--it was like the meeting of the two scriptural
cousins! There was a grace and dignity, an amplitude of form and stature, answering to her
mind, in this farmer's wife, which would have shined in a palace--or so we thought it. We were
made welcome by husband and wife equally--we, and our friend that was with us--I had almost
forgotten him--but B.F. will not so soon forget that meeting, if peradventure he shall read
this on the far distant shores where the Kangaroo haunts. The fatted calf was made ready, or
rather was already so, as if in anticipation of our coming; and, after an appropriate glass
of native wine, never let me forget with what honest pride this hospitable cousin made us proceed
to Wheathampstead, to introduce us (as some new-found rarity) to her mother and sister Gladmans,
who did indeed know something more of us, at a time when she almost knew nothing.--With what
corresponding kindness we were received by them also--how Bridget's memory, exalted by the
occasion, warmed into a thousand half-obliterated recollections of things and persons, to my
utter astonishment, and her own--and to the astoundment of B.F. who sat by, almost the only
thing that was not a cousin there,--old effaced images of more than half-forgotten names and
circumstances still crowding back upon her, as words written in lemon come out upon exposure
to a friendly warmth,--when I forget all this, then may my country cousins forget me; and Bridget
no more remember, that in the days of weakling infancy I was her tender charge--as I have been
her care in foolish manhood since--in those pretty pastoral walks, long ago, about Mackery
End, in Hertfordshire.

MODERN GALLANTRY

In comparing modern with ancient manners, we are pleased to compliment ourselves upon the point
of gallantry; a certain obsequiousness, or deferential respect, which we are supposed to pay
to females, as females.

I shall believe that this principle actuates our conduct, when I can forget, that in the nineteenth
century of the era from which we date our civility, we are but just beginning to leave off
the very frequent practice of whipping females in public, in common with the coarsest male
offenders.

I shall believe it to be influential, when I can shut my eyes to the fact, that in England
women are still occasionally--hanged.

I shall believe in it, when actresses are no longer subject to be hissed off a stage by gentlemen.

I shall believe in it, when Dorimant hands a fish-wife across the kennel; or assists the apple-woman
to pick up her wandering fruit, which some unlucky dray has just dissipated.

I shall believe in it, when the Dorimants in humbler life, who would be thought in their way
notable adepts in this refinement, shall act upon it in places where they are not known, or
think themselves not observed--when I shall see the traveller for some rich tradesman part
with his admired box-coat, to spread it over the defenceless shoulders of the poor woman, who
is passing to her parish on the roof of the same stage-coach with him, drenched in the rain--when
I shall no longer see a woman standing up in the pit of a London theatre, till she is sick
and faint with the exertion, with men about her, seated at their ease, and jeering at her distress;
till one, that seems to have more manners or conscience than the rest, significantly declares
"she should be welcome to his seat, if she were a little younger and handsomer." Place this
dapper warehouseman, or that rider, in a circle of their own female acquaintance, and you shall
confess you have not seen a politer-bred man in Lothbury.

Lastly, I shall begin to believe that there is some such principle influencing our conduct,
when more than one-half of the drudgery and coarse servitude of the world shall cease to be
performed by women.

Until that day comes, I shall never believe this boasted point to be any thing more than a
conventional fiction; a pageant got up between the sexes, in a certain rank, and at a certain
time of life, in which both find their account equally.

I shall be even disposed to rank it among the salutary fictions of life, when in polite circles
I shall see the same attentions paid to age as to youth, to homely features as to handsome,
to coarse complexions as to clear--to the woman, as she is a woman, not as she is a beauty,
a fortune, or a title.

I shall believe it to be something more than a name, when a well-dressed gentleman in a well-dressed
company can advert to the topic of female old age without exciting, and intending to excite,
a sneer:--when the phrases "antiquated virginity," and such a one has "overstoocl her market,"
pronounced in good company, shall raise immediate offence in man, or woman, that shall hear
them spoken.

Joseph Paice, of Bread-street-hill, merchant, and one of the Directors of the South-Sea company--the
same to whom Edwards, the Shakspeare commentator, has addressed a fine sonnet--was the only
pattern of consistent gallantry I have met with. He took me under his shelter at an early age,
and bestowed some pains upon me. I owe to his precepts and example whatever there is of the
man of business (and that is not much) in my composition. It was not his fault that I did not
profit more. Though bred a Presbyterian, and brought up a merchant, he was the finest gentleman
of his time. He had not one system of attention to females in the drawing-room, and another
in the shop, or at the stall. I do not mean that he made no distinction. But he never lost
sight of sex, or overlooked it in the casualties of a disadvantageous situation. I have seen
him stand bare-headed--smile if you please--to a poor servant girl, while she has been inquiring
of him the way to some street--in such a posture of unforced civility, as neither to embarrass
her in the acceptance, nor himself in the offer, of it. He was no dangler, in the common acceptation
of the word, after women: but he reverenced and upheld, in every form in which it came before
him, womanhood. I have seen him--nay, smile not--tenderly escorting a marketwoman, whom he
had encountered in a shower, exalting his umbrella over her poor basket of fruit, that it might
receive no damage, with as much carefulness as if she had been a Countess. To the reverend
form of Female Eld he would yield the wall (though it were to an ancient beggar-woman) with
more ceremony than we can afford to show our grandams. He was the Preux Chevalier of Age; the
Sir Calidore, or Sir Tristan, to those who have no Calidores or Tristans to defend them. The
roses, that had long faded thence, still bloomed for him in those withered and yellow cheeks.

He was never married, but in his youth he paid his addresses to the beautiful Susan Winstanley--old
Winstanley's daughter of Clapton--who dying in the early days of their courtship, confirmed
in him the resolution of perpetual bachelorship. It was during their short courtship, he told
me, that he had been one day treating his mistress with a profusion of civil speeches--the
common gallantries--to which kind of thing she had hitherto manifested no repugnance--but in
this instance with no effect. He could not obtain from her a decent acknowledgment in return.
She rather seemed to resent his compliments. He could not set it down to caprice, for the lady
had always shown herself above that littleness.

I think the lady discovered both generosity, and a just way of thinking, in this rebuke which
she gave her lover; and I have sometimes imagined, that the uncommon strain of courtesy, which
through life regulated the actions and behaviour of my friend towards all of womankind indiscriminately,
owed its happy origin to this seasonable lesson from the lips of his lamented mistress.

I wish the whole female world would entertain the same notion of these things that Miss Winstanley
showed. Then we should see something of the spirit of consistent gallantry; and no longer witness
the anomaly of the same man--a pattern of true politeness to a wife--of cold contempt, or rudeness,
to a sister--the idolater of his female mistress--the disparager and despiser of his no less
female aunt, or unfortunate--still female--maiden cousin. Just so much respect as a woman derogates
from her own sex, in whatever condition placed--her handmaid, or dependent--she deserves to
have diminished from herself on that score; and probably will feel the diminution, when youth,
and beauty, and advantages, not inseparable from sex, shall lose of their attraction. What
a woman should demand of a man in courtship, or after it, is first--respect for her as she
is a woman;--and next to that--to be respected by him above all other women. But let her stand
upon her female character as upon a foundation; and let the attentions, incident to individual
preference, be so many pretty additaments and ornaments--as many, and as fanciful, as you please--to
that main structure. Let her first lesson be--with sweet Susan Winstanley--to reverence her
sex. If its business-use be superseded by more elaborate inventions, its moral uses, its beauty,
might have pleaded for its continuance. It spoke of moderate labours, of pleasures not protracted
after sun-set, of temperance, and good-hours. It was the primitive clock, the horologe of the
first world. Adam could scarce have missed it in Paradise. It was the measure appropriate for
sweet plants and flowers to spring by, for the birds to apportion their silver warblings by,
for flocks to pasture and be led to fold by. The shepherd "carved it out quaintly in the sun;"
and, turning philosopher by the very occupation, provided it with mottos more touching than
tombstones. It was a pretty device of the gardener, recorded by Marvell, who, in the days of
artificial gardening, made a dial out of herbs and flowers. I must quote his verses a little
higher up, for they are full, as all his serious poetry was, of a witty delicacy. They will
not come in awkwardly, I hope, in a talk of fountains and sun-dials. Most of them are dried
up, or bricked over. Yet, where one is left, as in that little green nook behind the South-Sea
House, what a freshness it gives to the dreary pile! Four little winged marble boys used to
play their virgin fancies, spouting out ever fresh streams from their innocent-wanton lips,
in the square of Lincoln's-inn, when I was no bigger than they were figured. They are gone,
and the spring choked up. The fashion, they tell me, is gone by, and these things are esteemed
childish. Why not then gratify children, by letting them stand? Lawyers, I suppose, were children
once. They are awakening images to them at least. Why must every thing smack of man, and mannish?
Is the world all grown up? Is childhood dead? Or is there not in the bosoms of the wisest and
the best some of the child's heart left, to respond to its earliest enchantments? The figures
were grotesque. Are the stiff-wigged living figures, that still flitter and chatter about that
area, less gothic in appearance? or is the splutter of their hot rhetoric one half so refreshing
and innocent as the little cool playful streams those exploded cherubs uttered?

They have lately gothicised the entrance to the Inner Temple-hall, and the library front, to
assimilate them, I suppose, to the body of the hall, which they do not at all resemble. What
is become of the winged horse that stood over the former? a stately arms! and who has removed
those frescoes of the Virtues, which Italianized the end of the Paper-buildings?--my first
hint of allegory! They must account to me for these things, which I miss so greatly.

The terrace is, indeed, left, which we used to call the parade; but the traces are passed away
of the footsteps which made its pavement awful! It is become common and profane. The old benchers
had it almost sacred to themselves, in the forepart of the day at least. They might not be
sided or jostled. Their air and dress asserted the parade. You left wide spaces betwixt you,
when you passed them. We walk on even terms with their successors. The roguish eye of J----ll,
ever ready to be delivered of a jest, almost invites a stranger to vie a repartee with it.
But what insolent familiar durst have mated Thomas Coventry?--whose person was a quadrate,
his step massy and elephantine, his face square as the lion's, his gait peremptory and path-keeping,
indivertible from his way as a moving column, the scarecrow of his inferiors, the brow-beater
of equals and superiors, who made a solitude of children wherever he came, for they fled his
insufferable presence, as they would have shunned an Elisha bear. His growl was as thunder
in their ears, whether he spake to them in mirth or in rebuke, his invitatory notes being,
indeed, of all, the most repulsive and horrid. Clouds of snuff, aggravating the natural terrors
of his speech, broke from each majestic nostril, darkening the air. He took it, not by pinches,
but a palmful at once, diving for it under the mighty flaps of his old-fashioned waistcoat
pocket; his waistcoat red and angry, his coat dark rappee, tinctured by dye original, and by
adjuncts, with buttons of obsolete gold. And so he paced the terrace.

By his side a milder form was sometimes to be seen; the pensive gentility of Samuel Salt. They
were coevals, and had nothing but that and their benchership in common. In politics Salt was
a whig, and Coventry a staunch tory. Many a sarcastic growl did the latter cast out--for Coventry
had a rough spinous humour--at the political confederates of his associate, which rebounded
from the gentle bosom of the latter like cannon-balls from wool. You could not ruffle Samuel Salt.

S. had the reputation of being a very clever man, and of excellent discernment in the chamber
practice of the law. I suspect his knowledge did not amount to much. When a case of difficult
disposition of money, testamentary or otherwise, came before him, he ordinarily handed it over
with a few instructions to his man Lovel, who was a quick little fellow, and would despatch
it out of hand by the light of natural understanding, of which he had an uncommon share. It
was incredible what repute for talents S. enjoyed by the mere trick of gravity. He was a shy
man; a child might pose him in a minute--indolent and procrastinating to the last degree. Yet
men would give him credit for vast application in spite of himself. He was not to be trusted
with himself with impunity. He never dressed for a dinner party but he forgot his sword--they
wore swords then--or some other necessary part of his equipage. Lovel had his eye upon him
on all these occasions, and ordinarily gave him his cue. If there was anything which he could
speak unseasonably, he was sure to do it.--He was to dine at a relative's of the unfortunate
Miss Blandy on the day of her execution;--and L. who had a wary foresight of his probable hallucinations,
before he set out, schooled him with great anxiety not in any possible manner to allude to
her story that day. S. promised faithfully to observe the injunction. He had not been seated
in the parlour, where the company was expecting the dinner summons, four minutes, when, a pause
in the conversation ensuing, he got up, looked out of window, and pulling down his ruffles--an
ordinary motion with him--observed, "it was a gloomy day," and added, "Miss Blandy must be
hanged by this time, I suppose." Instances of this sort were perpetual. Yet S. was thought
by some of the greatest men of his time a fit person to be consulted, not alone in matters
pertaining to the law, but in the ordinary niceties and embarrassments of conduct--from force
of manner entirely. He never laughed. He had the same good fortune among the female world,--was
a known toast with the ladies, and one or two are said to have died for love of him--I suppose,
because he never trifled or talked gallantry with them, or paid them, indeed, hardly common
attentions. He had a fine face and person, but wanted, methought, the spirit that should have
shown them off with advantage to the women. His eye lacked lustre.--Not so, thought Susan P----;
who, at the advanced age of sixty, was seen, in the cold evening time, unaccompanied, wetting
the pavement of B----d Row, with tears that fell in drops which might be heard, because her
friend had died that day--he, whom she had pursued with a hopeless passion for the last forty
years--a passion, which years could not extinguish or abate; nor the long resolved, yet gently
enforced, puttings off of unrelenting bachelorhood dissuade from its cherished purpose. Mild
Susan P----, thou hast now thy friend in heaven!

Thomas Coventry was a cadet of the noble family of that name. He passed his youth in contracted
circumstances, which gave him early those parsimonious habits which in after-life never forsook
him; so that, with one windfall or another, about the time I knew him he was master of four
or five hundred thousand pounds; nor did he look, or walk, worth a moidore less. He lived in
a gloomy house opposite the pump in Serjeant's-inn, Fleet-street. J., the counsel, is doing
self-imposed penance in it, for what reason I divine not, at this day. C. had an agreeable
seat at North Cray, where he seldom spent above a day or two at a time in the summer; but preferred,
during the hot months, standing at his window in this damp, close, well-like mansion, to watch,
as he said, "the maids drawing water all day long." I suspect he had his within-door reasons
for the preference. Hic currus et arma fuêre. He might think his treasures more safe. His house
had the aspect of a strong box. C. was a close hunks--a hoarder rather than a miser--or, if
a miser, none of the mad Elwes breed, who have brought discredit upon a character, which cannot
exist without certain admirable points of steadiness and unity of purpose. One may hate a true
miser, but cannot, I suspect, so easily despise him. By taking care of the pence, he is often
enabled to part with the pounds, upon a scale that leaves us careless generous fellows halting
at an immeasurable distance behind. C. gave away 30,000l. at once in his life-time to a blind
charity. His house-keeping was severely looked after, but he kept the table of a gentleman.
He would know who came in and who went out of his house, but his kitchen chimney was never
suffered to freeze.

Salt was his opposite in this, as in all--never knew what he was worth in the world; and having
but a competency for his rank, which his indolent habits were little calculated to improve,
might have suffered severely if he had not had honest people about him. Lovel took care of
every thing. He did nothing without consulting Lovel, or failed in any thing without expecting
and fearing his admonishing. He put himself almost too much in his hands, had they not been
the purest in the world. He resigned his title almost to respect as a master, if L. could ever
have forgotten for a moment that he was a servant. He once wrested a sword out of the hand
of a man of quality that had drawn upon him; and pommelled him severely with the hilt of it.
The swordsman had offered insult to a female--an occasion upon which no odds against him could
have prevented the interference of Lovel. He would stand next day bare-headed to the same person,
modestly to excuse his interference--for L. never forgot rank, where something better was not
concerned. L. was the liveliest little fellow breathing, had a face as gay as Garrick's, whom
he was said greatly to resemble (I have a portrait of him which confirms it), possessed a fine
turn for humorous poetry--next to Swift and Prior--moulded heads in clay or plaster of Paris
to admiration, by the dint of natural genius merely; turned cribbage boards, and such small
cabinet toys, to perfection; took a hand at quadrille or bowls with equal facility; made punch
better than any man of his degree in England; had the merriest quips and conceits, and was
altogether as brimful of rogueries and inventions as you could desire. He was a brother of
the angle, moreover, and just such a free, hearty, honest companion as Mr. Isaac Walton would
have chosen to go a fishing with. I saw him in his old age and the decay of his faculties,
palsy-smitten, in the last sad stage of human weakness--"a remnant most forlorn of what he
was,"--yet even then his eye would light up upon the mention of his favourite Garrick. He was
greatest, he would say, in Bayes--"was upon the stage nearly throughout the whole performance,
and as busy as a bee." At intervals, too, he would speak of his former life, and how he came
up a little boy from Lincoln to go to service, and how his mother cried at parting with him,
and how he returned, after some few years' absence, in his smart new livery to see her, and
she blessed herself at the change, and could hardly be brought to believe that it was "her
own bairn." And then, the excitement subsiding, he would weep, till I have wished that sad
second-childhood might have a mother still to lay its head upon her lap. But the common mother
of us all in no long time after received him gently into hers.

With Coventry, and with Salt, in their walks upon the terrace, most commonly Peter Pierson
would join, to make up a third. They did not walk linked arm in arm in those days--"as now
our stout triumvirs sweep the streets,"--but generally with both hands folded behind them for
state, or with one at least behind, the other carrying a cane. P. was a benevolent, but not
a pre-possessing man. He had that in his face which you could not term unhappiness; it rather
implied an incapacity of being happy. His cheeks were colourless, even to whiteness. His look
was uninviting, resembling (but without his sourness) that of our great philanthropist. I know
that he did good acts, but I could never make out what he was. Contemporary with these, but
subordinate, was Daines Barrington--another oddity--he walked burly and square--in imitation,
I think, of Coventry--howbeit he attained not to the dignity of his prototype. Nevertheless,
he did pretty well, upon the strength of being a tolerable antiquarian, and having a brother
a bishop. When the account of his year's treasurership came to be audited, the following singular
charge was unanimously disallowed by the bench: "Item, disbursed Mr. Allen, the gardener, twenty
shillings, for stuff to poison the sparrows, by my orders." Next to him was old Barton--a jolly
negation, who took upon him the ordering of the bills of fare for the parliament chamber, where
the benchers dine--answering to the combination rooms at college--much to the easement of his
less epicurean brethren. I know nothing more of him.--Then Read, and Twopenny--Read, good-humoured
and personable--Twopenny, good-humoured, but thin, and felicitous in jests upon his own figure.
If T. was thin, Wharry was attenuated and fleeting. Many must remember him (for he was rather
of later date) and his singular gait, which was performed by three steps and a jump regularly
succeeding. The steps were little efforts, like that of a child beginning to walk; the jump
comparatively vigorous, as a foot to an inch. Where he learned this figure, or what occasioned
it, I could never discover. It was neither graceful in itself, nor seemed to answer the purpose
any better than common walking. The extreme tenuity of his frame, I suspect, set him upon it.
It was a trial of poising. Twopenny would often rally him upon his leanness, and hail him as
Brother Lusty; but W. had no relish of a joke. His features were spiteful. I have heard that
he would pinch his cat's ears extremely, when any thing had offended him. Jackson--the omniscient
Jackson he was called--was of this period. He had the reputation of possessing more multifarious
knowledge than any man of his time. He was the Friar Bacon of the less literate portion of
the Temple. I remember a pleasant passage, of the cook applying to him, with much formality
of apology, for instructions how to write down edge bone of beef in his bill of commons. He
was supposed to know, if any man in the world did. He decided the orthography to be--as I have
given it--fortifying his authority with such anatomical reasons as dismissed the manciple (for
the time) learned and happy. Some do spell it yet perversely, aitch bone, from a fanciful resemblance
between its shape, and that of the aspirate so denominated. I had almost forgotten Mingay with
the iron hand--but he was somewhat later. He had lost his right hand by some accident, and
supplied it with a grappling hook, which he wielded with a tolerable adroitness. I detected
the substitute, before I was old enough to reason whether it were artificial or not. I remember
the astonishment it raised in me. He was a blustering, loud-talking person; and I reconciled
the phenomenon to my ideas as an emblem of power--somewhat like the horns in the forehead of
Michael Angelo's Moses. Baron Maseres, who walks (or did till very lately) in the costume of
the reign of George the Second, closes my imperfect recollections of the old benchers of the
Inner Temple.

Fantastic forms, whither are ye fled? Or, if the like of you exist, why exist they no more
for me? Ye inexplicable, half-understood appearances, why comes in reason to tear away the
preternatural mist, bright or gloomy, that enshrouded you? Why make ye so sorry a figure in
my relation, who made up to me--to my childish eyes--the mythology of the Temple? In those
days I saw Gods, as "old men covered with a mantle," walking upon the earth. Let the dreams
of classic idolatry perish,--extinct be the fairies and fairy trumpery of legendary fabling,--in
the heart of childhood, there will, for ever, spring up a well of innocent or wholesome superstition--the
seeds of exaggeration will be busy there, and vital--from every-day forms educing the unknown
and the uncommon. In that little Goshen there will be light, when the grown world flounders
about in the darkness of sense and materiality. While childhood, and while dreams, reducing
childhood, shall be left, imagination shall not have spread her holy wings totally to fly the
earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

P.S. I have done injustice to the soft shade of Samuel Salt. See what it is to trust to imperfect
memory, and the erring notices of childhood! Yet I protest I always thought that he had been
a bachelor! This gentleman, R.N. informs me, married young, and losing his lady in child-bed,
within the first year of their union, fell into a deep melancholy, from the effects of which,
probably, he never thoroughly recovered. In what a new light does this place his rejection
(O call it by a gentler name!) of mild Susan P----, unravelling into beauty certain peculiarities
of this very shy and retiring character!--Henceforth let no one receive the narratives of Elia
for true records! He is no such honest chronicler as R.N., and would have done better perhaps
to have consulted that gentleman, before he sent these incondite reminiscences to press. But
the worthy sub-treasurer--who respects his old and his new masters--would but have been puzzled
at the indecorous liberties of Elia. The good man wots not, peradventure, of the license which
Magazines have arrived at in this plain-speaking age, or hardly dreams of their existence beyond
the Gentleman's--his furthest monthly excursions in this nature having been long confined to
the holy ground of honest Urban's obituary. May it be long before his own name shall help to
swell those columns of unenvied flattery!--Meantime, O ye New Benchers of the Inner Temple,
cherish him kindly, for he is himself the kindliest of human creatures. Should infirmities
over-take him--he is yet in green and vigorous senility--make allowances for them, remembering
that "ye yourselves are old."

[Footnote 1: From a copy of verses entitled The Garden.]

GRACE BEFORE MEAT

The custom of saying grace at meals had, probably, its origin in the early times of the world,
and the hunter-state of man, when dinners were precarious things, and a full meal was something
more than a common blessing; when a belly-full was a windfall, and looked like a special providence.
In the shouts and triumphal songs with which, after a season of sharp abstinence, a lucky booty
of deer's or goat's flesh would naturally be ushered home, existed, perhaps, the germ of the
modern grace. It is not otherwise easy to be understood, why the blessing of food--the act
of eating--should have had a particular expression of thanksgiving annexed to it, distinct
from that implied and silent gratitude with which we are expected to enter upon the enjoyment
of the many other various gifts and good things of existence.

The form then of the benediction before eating has its beauty at a poor man's table, or at
the simple and unprovocative repasts of children. It is here that the grace becomes exceedingly
graceful. The indigent man, who hardly knows whether he shall have a meal the next day or not,
sits down to his fare with a present sense of the blessing, which can be but feebly acted by
the rich, into whose minds the conception of wanting a dinner could never, but by some extreme
theory, have entered. The proper end of food--the animal sustenance--is barely contemplated
by them. The poor man's bread is his daily bread, literally his bread for the day. Their courses
are perennial.

Again, the plainest diet seems the fittest to be preceded by the grace. That which is least
stimulative to appetite, leaves the mind most free for foreign considerations. A man may feel
thankful, heartily thankful, over a dish of plain mutton with turnips, and have leisure to
reflect upon the ordinance and institution of eating; when he shall confess a perturbation
o f mind, inconsistent with the purposes of the grace, at the presence of venison or turtle.
When I have sate (a rarus hospes) at rich men's tables, with the savoury soup and messes steaming
up the nostrils, and moistening the lips of the guests with desire and a distracted choice,
I have felt the introduction of that ceremony to be unseasonable. With the ravenous orgasm
upon you, it seems impertinent to interpose a religious sentiment. It is a confusion of purpose
to mutter out praises from a mouth that waters. The heats of epicurism put out the gentle flame
of devotion. The incense which rises round is pagan, and the belly-god intercepts it for his
own. The very excess of the provision beyond the needs, takes away all sense of proportion
between the end and means. The giver is veiled by his gifts. You are startled at the injustice
of returning thanks--for what?--for having too much, while so many starve. It is to praise
the Gods amiss.

I have observed this awkwardness felt, scarce consciously perhaps, by the good man who says
the grace. I have seen it in clergymen and others--a sort of shame--a sense of the co-presence
of circumstances which unhallow the blessing. After a devotional tone put on for a few seconds,
how rapidly the speaker will fall into his common voice, helping himself or his neighbour,
as if to get rid of some uneasy sensation of hypocrisy. Not that the good man was a hypocrite,
or was not most conscientious in the discharge of the duty; but he felt in his inmost mind
the incompatibility of the scene and the viands before him with the exercise of a calm and
rational gratitude.

I hear somebody exclaim,--Would you have Christians sit down at table, like hogs to their troughs,
without remembering the Giver?--no--I would have them sit down as Christians, remembering the
Giver, and less like hogs. Or if their appetites must run riot, and they must pamper themselves
with delicacies for which east and west are ransacked, I would have them postpone their benediction
to a fitter season, when appetite is laid; when the still small voice can be heard, and the
reason of the grace returns--with temperate diet and restricted dishes. Gluttony and surfeiting
are no proper occasions for thanksgiving. When Jeshurun waxed fat, we read that he kicked.
Virgil knew the harpy-nature better, when he put into the mouth of Celasno any thing but a
blessing. We may be gratefully sensible of the deliciousness of some kinds of food beyond others,
though that is a meaner and inferior gratitude: but the proper object of the grace is sustenance,
not relishes; daily bread, not delicacies; the means of life, and not the means of pampering
the carcass. With what frame or composure, I wonder, can a city chaplain pronounce his benediction
at some great Hall feast, when he knows that his last concluding pious word--and that, in all
probability, the sacred name which he preaches--is but the signal for so many impatient harpies
to commence their foul orgies, with as little sense of true thankfulness (which is temperance)
as those Virgilian fowl! It is well if the good man himself does not feel his devotions a little
clouded, those foggy sensuous steams mingling with and polluting the pure altar sacrifice.

The Tempter, I warrant you, thought these cates would go down without the recommendatory preface
of a benediction. They are like to be short graces where the devil plays the host.--I am afraid
the poet wants his usual decorum in this place. Was he thinking of the old Roman luxury, or
of a gaudy day at Cambridge? This was a temptation fitter for a Heliogabalus. The whole banquet
is too civic and culinary, and the accompaniments altogether a profanation of that deep, abstracted,
holy scene. The mighty artillery of sauces, which the cook-fiend conjures up, is out of proportion
to the simple wants and plain hunger of the guest. He that disturbed him in his dreams, from
his dreams might have been taught better. To the temperate fantasies of the famished Son of
God, what sort of feasts presented themselves?--He dreamed indeed,

  --As appetite is wont to dream,
  Of meats and drinks, nature's refreshment sweet.

Nothing in Milton is finelier fancied than these temperate dreams of the divine Hungerer. To
which of these two visionary banquets, think you, would the introduction of what is called
the grace have been most fitting and pertinent?

Theoretically I am no enemy to graces; but practically I own that (before meat especially)
they seem to involve something awkward and unseasonable. Our appetites, of one or another kind,
are excellent spurs to our reason, which might otherwise but feebly set about the great ends
of preserving and continuing the species. They are fit blessings to be contemplated at a distance
with a becoming gratitude; but the moment of appetite (the judicious reader will apprehend
me) is, perhaps, the least fit season for that exercise. The Quakers who go about their business,
of every description, with more calmness than we, have more title to the use of these benedictory
prefaces. I have always admired their silent grace, and the more because I have observed their
applications to the meat and drink following to be less passionate and sensual than ours. They
are neither gluttons nor wine-bibbers as a people. They eat, as a horse bolts his chopt hay,
with indifference, calmness, and cleanly circumstances. They neither grease nor slop themselves.
When I see a citizen in his bib and tucker, I cannot imagine it a surplice.

I am no Quaker at my food. I confess I am not indifferent to the kinds of it. Those unctuous
morsels of deer's flesh were not made to be received with dispassionate services. I hate a
man who swallows it, affecting not to know what he is eating. I suspect his taste in higher
matters. I shrink instinctively from one who professes to like minced veal. There is a physiognomical
character in the tastes for food. C---- holds that a man cannot have a pure mind who refuses
apple-dumplings. I am not certain but he is right. With the decay of my first innocence, I
confess a less and less relish daily for those innocuous cates. The whole vegetable tribe have
lost their gust with me. Only I stick to asparagus, which still seems to inspire gentle thoughts.
I am impatient and querulous under culinary disappointments, as to come home at the dinner
hour, for instance, expecting some savoury mess, and to find one quite tasteless and sapidless.
Butter ill melted--that commonest of kitchen failures--puts me beside my tenour.--The author
of the Rambler used to make inarticulate animal noises over a favourite food. Was this the
music quite proper to be preceded by the grace? or would the pious man have done better to
postpone his devotions to a season when the blessing plight be contemplated with less perturbation?
I quarrel with no man's tastes, nor would set my thin face against those excellent things,
in their way, jollity and feasting. But as these exercises, however laudable, have little in
them of grace or gracefulness, a man should be sure, before he ventures so to grace them, that
while he is pretending his devotions otherwhere, he is not secretly kissing his hand to some
great fish--his Dagon--with a special consecration of no ark but the fat tureen before him.
Graces are the sweet preluding strains to the banquets of angels and children; to the roots
and severer repasts of the Chartreuse; to the slender, but not slenderly acknowledged, refection
of the poor and humble man: but at the heaped-up boards of the pampered and the luxurious they
become of dissonant mood, less timed and tuned to the occasion, methinks, than the noise of
those better befitting organs would be, which children hear tales of, at Hog's Norton. We sit
too long at our meals, or are too curious in the study of them, or too disordered in our application
to them, or engross too great a portion of those good things (which should be common) to our
share, to be able with any grace to say grace. To be thankful for what we grasp exceeding our
proportion is to add hypocrisy to injustice. A lurking sense of this truth is what makes the
performance of this duty so cold and spiritless a service at most tables. In houses where the
grace is as indispensable as the napkin, who has not seen that never settled question arise,
as to who shall say it; while the good man of the house and the visitor clergyman, or some
other guest belike of next authority from years or gravity, shall be bandying about the office
between them as a matter of compliment, each of them not unwilling to shift the awkward burthen
of an equivocal duty from his own shoulders?

I once drank tea in company with two Methodist divines of different persuasions, whom it was
my fortune to introduce to each other for the first time that evening. With what spirit might
not Lucian have painted two priests, of his religion, playing into each other's hands the compliment
of performing or omitting a sacrifice,--the hungry God meantime, doubtful of his incense, with
expectant nostrils hovering over the two flamens, and (as between two stools) going away in
the end without his supper.

A short form upon these occasions is felt to want reverence; a long one, I am afraid, cannot
escape the charge of impertinence. I do not quite approve of the epigrammatic conciseness with
which that equivocal wag (but my pleasant school-fellow) C.V.L., when importuned for a grace,
used to inquire, first slyly leering down the table, "Is there no clergyman here?"--significantly
adding, "thank G----." Nor do I think our old form at school quite pertinent, where we were
used to preface our bald bread and cheese suppers with a preamble, connecting with that humble
blessing a recognition of benefits the most awful and overwhelming to the imagination which
religion has to offer. Non tunc illis erat locus. I remember we were put to it to reconcile
the phrase "good creatures," upon which the blessing rested, with the fare set before us, wilfully
understanding that expression in a low and animal sense,--till some one recalled a legend,
which told how in the golden days of Christ's, the young Hospitallers were wont to have smoking
joints of roast meat upon their nightly boards, till some pious benefactor, commiserating the
decencies, rather than the palates, of the children, commuted our flesh for garments, and gave
us--horresco referens--trowsers instead of mutton.

MY FIRST PLAY

At the north end of Cross-court there yet stands a portal, of some architectural pretensions,
though reduced to humble use, serving at present for an entrance to a printing-office. This
old door-way, if you are young, reader, you may not know was the identical pit entrance to
old Drury--Garrick's Drury--all of it that is left. I never pass it without shaking some forty
years from off my shoulders, recurring to the evening when I passed through it to see my first
play. The afternoon had been wet, and the condition of our going (the elder folks and myself)
was, that the rain should cease. With what a beating heart did I watch from the window the
puddles, from the stillness of which I was taught to prognosticate the desired cessation! I
seem to remember the last spurt, and the glee with which I ran to announce it.

We went with orders, which my godfather F. had sent us. He kept the oil shop (now Davies's)
at the corner of Featherstone-building, in Holborn. F. was a tall grave person, lofty in speech,
and had pretensions above his rank. He associated in those days with John Palmer, the comedian,
whose gait and bearing he seemed to copy; if John (which is quite as likely) did not rather
borrow somewhat of his manner from my godfather. He was also known to, and visited by, Sheridan.
It was to his house in Holborn that young Brinsley brought his first wife on her elopement
with him from a boarding-school at Bath--the beautiful Maria Linley. My parents were present
(over a quadrille table) when he arrived in the evening with his harmonious charge.--From either
of these connexions it may be inferred that my godfather could command an order for the then
Drury-lane theatre at pleasure--and, indeed, a pretty liberal issue of those cheap billets,
in Brinsley's easy autograph, I have heard him say was the sole remuneration which he had received
for many years' nightly illumination of the orchestra and various avenues of that theatre--and
he was content it should be so. The honour of Sheridan's familiarity--or supposed familiarity--was
better to my godfather than money.

F. was the most gentlemanly of oilmen; grandiloquent, yet courteous. His delivery of the commonest
matters of fact was Ciceronian. He had two Latin words almost constantly in his mouth (how
odd sounds Latin from an oilman's lips!), which my better knowledge since has enabled me to
correct. In strict pronunciation they should have been sounded vice versâ--but in those young
years they impressed me with more awe than they would now do, read aright from Seneca or Varro--in
his own peculiar pronunciation, monosyllabically elaborated, or Anglicized, into something
like verse verse. By an imposing manner, and the help of these distorted syllables, he climbed
(but that was little) to the highest parochial honours which St. Andrew's has to bestow.

He is dead--and thus much I thought due to his memory, both for my first orders (little wondrous
talismans!--slight keys, and insignificant to outward sight, but opening to me more than Arabian
paradises!) and moreover, that by his testamentary beneficence I came into possession of the
only landed property which I could ever call my own--situate near the road-way village of pleasant
Puckeridge, in Hertfordshire. When I journeyed down to take possession, and planted foot on
my own ground, the stately habits of the donor descended upon me, and I strode (shall I confess
the vanity?) with larger paces over my allotment of three quarters of an acre, with its commodious
mansion in the midst, with the feeling of an English freeholder that all betwixt sky and centre
was my own. The estate has passed into more prudent hands, and nothing but an agrarian can
restore it.

In those days were pit orders. Beshrew the uncomfortable manager who abolished them!--with
one of these we went. I remember the waiting at the door--not that which is left--but between
that and an inner door in shelter--O when shall I be such an expectant again!--with the cry
of nonpareils, an indispensable play-house accompaniment in those days. As near as I can recollect,
the fashionable pronunciation of the theatrical fruiteresses then was, "Chase some oranges,
chase some numparels, chase a bill of the play;"--chase pro chuse. But when we got in, and
I beheld the green curtain that veiled a heaven to my imagination, which was soon to be disclosed--the
breathless anticipations I endured! I had seen something like it in the plate prefixed to Troilus
and Cressida, in Rowe's Shakspeare--the tent scene with Diomede--and a sight of that plate
can always bring back in a measure the feeling of that evening.--The boxes at that time, full
of well-dressed women of quality, projected over the pit; and the pilasters reaching down were
adorned with a glistering substance (I know not what) under glass (as it seemed), resembling--a
homely fancy--but I judged it to be sugar-candy--yet, to my raised imagination, divested of
its homelier qualities, it appeared a glorified candy!--The orchestra lights at length arose,
those "fair Auroras!" Once the bell sounded. It was to ring out yet once again--and, incapable
of the anticipation, I reposed my shut eyes in a sort of resignation upon the maternal lap.
It rang the second time.

The next play to which I was taken was the Lady of the Manor, of which, with the exception
of some scenery, very faint traces are left in my memory. It was followed by a pantomime, called
Lun's Ghost--a satiric touch, I apprehend, upon Rich, not long since dead--but to my apprehension
(too sincere for satire), Lun was as remote a piece of antiquity as Lud--the father, of a line
of Harlequins--transmitting his dagger of lath (the wooden sceptre) through countless ages.
I saw the primeval Motley come from his silent tomb in a ghastly vest of white patch-work,
like the apparition of a dead rainbow. So Harlequins (thought I) look when they are dead.

My third play followed in quick succession. It was the Way of the World. I think I must have
sat at it as grave as a judge; for, I remember, the hysteric affectations of good Lady Wishfort
affected me like some solemn tragic passion. Robinson Crusoe followed; in which Crusoe, man
Friday, and the parrot, were as good and authentic as in the story.--The clownery and pantaloonery
of these pantomimes have clean passed out of my head. I believe, I no more laughed at them,
than at the same age I should have been disposed to laugh at the grotesque Gothic heads (seeming
to me then replete with devout meaning) that gape, and grin, in stone around the inside of
the old Round Church (my church) of the Templars.

I saw these plays in the season 1781-2, when I was from six to seven years old. After the intervention
of six or seven other years (for at school all play-going was inhibited) I again entered the
doors of a theatre. That old Artaxerxes evening had never done ringing in my fancy. I expected
the same feelings to come again with the same occasion. But we differ from ourselves less at
sixty and sixteen, than the latter does from six. In that interval what had I not lost! Here
little Alice spread her hands.

DISTANT CORRESPONDENTS

IN A LETTER TO B.F. ESQ. AT SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES

My dear F.--When I think how welcome the sight of a letter from the world where you were born
must be to you in that strange one to which you have been transplanted, I feel some compunctious
visitings at my long silence. But, indeed, it is no easy effort to set about a correspondence
at our distance. The weary world of waters between us oppresses the imagination. It is difficult
to conceive how a scrawl of mine should ever stretch across it. It is a sort of presumption
to expect that one's thoughts should live so far. It is like writing for posterity; and reminds
me of one of Mrs. Rowe's superscriptions, "Alcander to Strephon, in the shades." Cowley's Post-Angel
is no more than would be expedient in such an intercourse. One drops a packet at Lombard-street,
and in twenty-four hours a friend in Cumberland gets it as fresh as if it came in ice. It is
only like whispering through a long trumpet. But suppose a tube let down from the moon, with
yourself at one end, and the man at the other; it would be some balk to the spirit of conversation,
if you knew that the dialogue exchanged with that interesting theosophist would take two or
three revolutions of a higher luminary in its passage. Yet for aught I know, you may be some
parasangs nigher that primitive idea--Plato's man--than we in England here have the honour
to reckon ourselves.

Epistolary matter usually compriseth three topics; news, sentiment, and puns. In the latter,
I include all non-serious subjects; or subjects serious in themselves, but treated after my
fashion, non-seriously.--And first, for news. In them the most desirable circumstance, I suppose,
is that they shall be true. But what security can I have that what I now send you for truth
shall not before you get it unaccountably turn into a lie? For instance, our mutual friend
P. is at this present writing--my Now--in good health, and enjoys a fair share of worldly reputation.
You are glad to hear it. This is natural and friendly. But at this present reading--your Now--he
may possibly be in the Bench, or going to be hanged, which in reason ought to abate something
of your transport (i.e. at hearing he was well, &c.), or at least considerably to modify it.
I am going to the play this evening, to have a laugh with Munden. You have no theatre, I think
you told me, in your land of d----d realities. You naturally lick your lips, and envy me my
felicity. Think but a moment, and you will correct the hateful emotion. Why, it is Sunday morning
with you, and 1823. This confusion of tenses, this grand solecism of two presents, is in a
degree common to all postage. But if I sent you word to Bath or the Devises, that I was expecting
the aforesaid treat this evening, though at the moment you received the intelligence my full
feast of fun would be over, yet there would be for a day or two after, as you would well know,
a smack, a relish left upon my mental palate, which would give rational encouragement for you
to foster a portion at least of the disagreeable passion, which it was in part my intention
to produce. But ten months hence your envy or your sympathy would be as useless as a passion
spent upon the dead. Not only does truth, in these long intervals, un-essence herself, but
(what is harder) one cannot venture a crude fiction for the fear that it may ripen into a truth
upon the voyage. What a wild improbable banter I put upon you, some three years since ----
of Will Weatherall having married a servant-maid! I remember gravely consulting you how we
were to receive her--for Will's wife was in no case to be rejected; and your no less serious
replication in the matter; how tenderly you advised an abstemious introduction of literary
topics before the lady, with a caution not to be too forward in bringing on the carpet matters
more within the sphere of her intelligence; your deliberate judgment, or rather wise suspension
of sentence, how far jacks, and spits, and mops, could with propriety be introduced as subjects;
whether the conscious avoiding of all such matters in discourse would not have a worse look
than the taking of them casually in our way; in what manner we should carry ourselves to our
maid Becky, Mrs. William Weatherall being by; whether we should show more delicacy, and a truer
sense of respect for Will's wife, by treating Becky with our customary chiding before her,
or by an unusual deferential civility paid to Becky as to a person of great worth, but thrown
by the caprice of fate into a humble station. There were difficulties, I remember, on both
sides, which you did me the favour to state with the precision of a lawyer, united to the tenderness
of a friend. I laughed in my sleeve at your solemn pleadings, when lo! while I was valuing
myself upon this flam put upon you in New South Wales, the devil in England, jealous possibly
of any lie-children not his own, or working after my copy, has actually instigated our friend
(not three days since) to the commission of a matrimony, which I had only conjured up for your
diversion. William Weatherall has married Mrs. Cotterel's maid. But to take it in its truest
sense, you will see, my dear F., that news from me must become history to you; which I neither
profess to write, nor indeed care much for reading. No person, under a diviner, can with any
prospect of veracity conduct a correspondence at such an arm's length. Two prophets, indeed,
might thus interchange intelligence with effect; the epoch of the writer (Habbakuk) falling
in with the true present time of the receiver (Daniel); but then we are no prophets.

Then as to sentiment. It fares little better with that. This kind of dish, above all, requires
to be served up hot; or sent off in water-plates, that your friend may have it almost as warm
as yourself. If it have time to cool, it is the most tasteless of all cold meats. I have often
smiled at a conceit of the late Lord C. It seems that travelling somewhere about Geneva, he
came to some pretty green spot, or nook, where a willow, or something, hung so fantastically
and invitingly over a stream--was it?--or a rock?--no matter--but the stillness and the repose,
after a weary journey 'tis likely, in a languid moment of his lordship's hot restless life,
so took his fancy, that he could imagine no place so proper, in the event of his death, to
lay his bones in. This was all very natural and excusable as a sentiment, and shows his character
in a very pleasing light. But when from a passing sentiment it came to be an act; and when,
by a positive testamentary disposal, his remains were actually carried all that way from England;
who was there, some desperate sentimentalists excepted, that did not ask the question, Why
could not his lordship have found a spot as solitary, a nook as romantic, a tree as green and
pendent, with a stream as emblematic to his purpose, in Surrey, in Dorset, or in Devon? Conceive
the sentiment boarded up, freighted, entered at the Custom House (startling the tide-waiters
with the novelty), hoisted into a ship. Conceive it pawed about and handled between the rude
jests of tarpaulin ruffians--a thing of its delicate texture--the salt bilge wetting it till
it became as vapid as a damaged lustring. Suppose it in material danger (mariners have some
superstition about sentiments) of being tossed over in a fresh gale to some propitiatory shark
(spirit of Saint Gothard, save us from a quietus so foreign to the deviser's purpose!) but
it has happily evaded a fishy consummation. Trace it then to its lucky landing--at Lyons shall
we say?--I have not the map before me--jostled upon four men's shoulders--baiting at this town--stopping
to refresh at t'other village--waiting a passport here, a license there; the sanction of the
magistracy in this district, the concurrence of the ecclesiastics in that canton; till at length
it arrives at its destination, tired out and jaded, from a brisk sentiment, into a feature
of silly pride or tawdry senseless affectation. How few sentiments, my dear F., I am afraid
we can set down, in the sailor's phrase, as quite sea-worthy.

Lastly, as to the agreeable levities, which, though contemptible in bulk, are the twinkling
corpuscula which should irradiate a right friendly epistle--your puns and small jests are,
I apprehend, extremely circumscribed in their sphere of action. They are so far from a capacity
of being packed up and sent beyond sea, they will scarce endure to be transported by hand from
this room to the next. Their vigour is as the instant of their birth. Their nutriment for their
brief existence is the intellectual atmosphere of the bystanders: or this last, is the fine
slime of Nilus--the melior Lutis,--whose maternal recipiency is as necessary as the sol pater
to their equivocal generation. A pun hath a hearty kind of present ear-kissing smack with it;
you can no more transmit it in its pristine flavour, than you can send a kiss.--Have you not
tried in some instances to palm off a yesterday's pun upon a gentleman, and has it answered?
Not but it was new to his hearing, but it did not seem to come new from you. It did not hitch
in. It was like picking up at a village ale-house a two days old newspaper. You have not seen
it before, but you resent the stale thing as an affront. This sort of merchandise above all
requires a quick return. A pun, and its recognitory laugh, must be co-instantaneous. The one
is the brisk lightning, the other the fierce thunder. A moment's interval, and the link is
snapped. A pun is reflected from a friend's face as from a mirror. Who would consult his sweet
visnomy, if the polished surface were two or three minutes (not to speak of twelve-months,
my dear F.) in giving back its copy?

I cannot image to myself where about you are. When I try to fix it, Peter Wilkins's island
comes across me. Sometimes you seem to be in the Hades of Thieves. I see Diogenes prying among
you with his perpetual fruitless lantern. What must you be willing by this time to give for
the sight of an honest man! You must almost have forgotten how we look. And tell me, what your
Sydneyites do? are they th**v*ng all day long? Merciful heaven! what property can stand against
such a depredation! The kangaroos--your Aborigines--do they keep their primitive simplicity
un-Europe-tainted, with those little short fore-puds, looking like a lesson framed by nature
to the pickpocket! Marry, for diving into fobs they are rather lamely provided a priori; but
if the hue and cry were once up, they would show as fair a pair of hind-shifters as the expertest
loco-motor in the colony.--We hear the most improbable tales at this distance. Pray, is it
true that the young Spartans among you are born with six fingers, which spoils their scanning?--It
must look very odd; but use reconciles. For their scansion, it is less to be regretted, for
if they take it into their heads to be poets, it is odds but they turn out, the greater part
of them, vile plagiarists.--Is there much difference to see to between the son of a th**f,
and the grandson? or where does the taint stop? Do you bleach in three or in four generations?--I
have many questions to put, but ten Delphic voyages can be made in a shorter time than it will
take to satisfy my scruples.--Do you grow your own hemp?--What is your staple trade, exclusive
of the national profession, I mean? Your lock-smiths, I take it, are some of your great capitalists.

I am insensibly chatting to you as familiarly as when we used to exchange good-morrows out
of our old contiguous windows, in pump-famed Hare-court in the Temple. Why did you ever leave
that quiet corner?--Why did I?--with its complement of four poor elms, from whose smoke-dyed
barks, the theme of jesting ruralists, I picked my first lady-birds! My heart is as dry as
that spring sometimes proves in a thirsty August, when I revert to the space that is between
us; a length of passage enough to render obsolete the phrases of our English letters before
they can reach you. But while I talk, I think you hear me,--thoughts dallying with vain surmise--

  Aye me! while thee the seas and sounding shores
  Hold far away.

Come back, before I am grown into a very old man, so as you shall hardly know me. Come, before
Bridget walks on crutches. Girls whom you left children have become sage matrons, while you
are tarrying there. The blooming Miss W----r (you remember Sally W----r) called upon us yesterday,
an aged crone. Folks, whom you knew, die off every year. Formerly, I thought that death was
wearing out,--I stood ramparted about with so many healthy friends. The departure of J.W.,
two springs back corrected my delusion. Since then the old divorcer has been busy. If you do
not make haste to return, there will be little left to greet you, of me, or mine.

When a child, what a mysterious pleasure it was to witness their operation! to see a chit no
bigger than one's-self enter, one knew not by what process, into what seemed the fauces Averni--to
pursue him in imagination, as he went sounding on through so many dark stifling caverns, horrid
shades!--to shudder with the idea that "now, surely, he must be lost for ever!"--to revive
at hearing his feeble shout of discovered day-light--and then (O fulness of delight) running
out of doors, to come just in time to see the sable phenomenon emerge in safety, the brandished
weapon of his art victorious like some flag waved over a conquered citadel! I seem to remember
having been told, that a bad sweep was once left in a stack with his brush, to indicate which
way the wind blew. It was an awful spectacle certainly; not much unlike the old stage direction
in Macbeth, where the "Apparition of a child crowned with a tree in his hand rises." If it
be starving weather, and to the proper troubles of his hard occupation, a pair of kibed heels
(no unusual accompaniment) be superadded, the demand on thy humanity will surely rise to a tester.

There is a composition, the ground-work of which I have understood to be the sweet wood 'yclept
sassafras. This wood boiled down to a kind of tea, and tempered with an infusion of milk and
sugar, hath to some tastes a delicacy beyond the China luxury. I know not how thy palate may
relish it; for myself, with every deference to the judicious Mr. Read, who hath time out of
mind kept open a shop (the only one he avers in London) for the vending of this "wholesome
and pleasant beverage, on the south side of Fleet-street, as thou approachest Bridge-street--the
only Salopian house,"--I have never yet adventured to dip my own particular lip in a basin
of his commended ingredients--a cautious premonition to the olfactories constantly whispering
to me, that my stomach must infallibly, with all due courtesy, decline it. Yet I have seen
palates, otherwise not uninstructed in dietetical elegances, sup it up with avidity.

Now albeit Mr. Read boasteth, not without reason, that his is the only Salopian house; yet
be it known to thee, reader--if thou art one who keepest what are called good hours, thou art
haply ignorant of the fact--he hath a race of industrious imitators, who from stalls, and under
open sky, dispense the same savoury mess to humbler customers, at that dead time of the dawn,
when (as extremes meet) the rake, reeling home from his midnight cups, and the hard-handed
artisan leaving his bed to resume the premature labours of the day, jostle, not unfrequently
to the manifest disconcerting of the former, for the honours of the pavement. It is the time
when, in summer, between the expired and the not yet relumined kitchen-fires, the kennels of
our fair metropolis give forth their least satisfactory odours. The rake, who wisheth to dissipate
his o'er-night vapours in more grateful coffee, curses the ungenial fume, as he passeth; but
the artisan stops to taste, and blesses the fragrant breakfast.

This is Saloop--the precocious herb-woman's darling--the delight of the early gardener, who
transports his smoking cabbages by break of day from Hammersmith to Covent-garden's famed piazzas--the
delight, and, oh I fear, too often the envy, of the unpennied sweep. Him shouldest thou haply
encounter, with his dim visage pendent over the grateful steam, regale him with a sumptuous
basin (it will cost thee but three half-pennies) and a slice of delicate bread and butter (an
added halfpenny)--so may thy culinary fires, eased of the o'er-charged secretions from thy
worse-placed hospitalities, curl up a lighter volume to the welkin--so may the descending soot
never taint thy costly well-ingredienced soups--nor the odious cry, quickreaching from street
to street, of the fired chimney, invite the rattling engines from ten adjacent parishes, to
disturb for a casual scintillation thy peace and pocket!

I am by nature extremely susceptible of street affronts; the jeers and taunts of the populace;
the low-bred triumph they display over the casual trip, or splashed stocking, of a gentleman.
Yet can I endure the jocularity of a young sweep with something more than forgiveness.--In
the last winter but one, pacing along Cheapside with my accustomed precipitation when I walk
westward, a treacherous slide brought me upon my back in an instant. I scrambled up with pain
and shame enough--yet outwardly trying to face it down, as if nothing had happened--when the
roguish grin of one of these young wits encountered me. There he stood, pointing me out with
his dusky finger to the mob, and to a poor woman (I suppose his mother) in particular, till
the tears for the exquisiteness of the fun (so he thought it) worked themselves out at the
corners of his poor red eyes, red from many a previous weeping, and soot-inflamed, yet twinkling
through all with such a joy, snatched out of desolation, that Hogarth--but Hogarth has got
him already (how could he miss him?) in the March to Finchley, grinning at the pye-man--there
he stood, as he stands in the picture, irremovable, as if the jest was to last for ever--with
such a maximum of glee, and minimum of mischief, in his mirth--for the grin of a genuine sweep
hath absolutely no malice in it--that I could have been content, if the honour of a gentleman
might endure it, to have remained his butt and his mockery till midnight.

I am by theory obdurate to the seductiveness of what are called a fine set of teeth. Every
pair of rosy lips (the ladies must pardon me) is a casket, presumably holding such jewels;
but, methinks, they should take leave to "air" them as frugally as possible. The fine lady,
or fine gentleman, who show me their teeth, show me bones. Yet must I confess, that from the
mouth of a true sweep a display (even to ostentation) of those white and shining ossifications,
strikes me as an agreeable anomaly in manners, and an allowable piece of foppery. It is, as when

  A sable cloud
  Turns forth her silver lining on the night.

It is like some remnant of gentry not quite extinct; a badge of better days; a hint of nobility:--and,
doubtless, under the obscuring darkness and double night of their forlorn disguisement, oftentimes
lurketh good blood, and gentle conditions, derived from lost ancestry, and a lapsed pedigree.
The premature apprenticements of these tender victims give but too much encouragement, I fear,
to clandestine, and almost infantile abductions; the seeds of civility and true courtesy, so
often discernible in these young grafts (not otherwise to be accounted for) plainly hint at
some forced adoptions; many noble Rachels mourning for their children, even in our days, countenance
the fact; the tales of fairy-spiriting may shadow a lamentable verity, and the recovery of
the young Montagu be but a solitary instance of, good fortune, out of many irreparable and
hopeless defiliations.

In one of the state-beds at Arundel Castle, a few years since--under a ducal canopy--(that
seat of the Howards is an object of curiosity to visitors, chiefly for its beds, in which the
late duke was especially a connoisseur)--encircled with curtains of delicatest crimson, with
starry coronets inwoven--folded between a pair of sheets whiter and softer than the lap where
Venus lulled Ascanius--was discovered by chance, after all methods of search had failed, at
noon-day, fast asleep, a lost chimney-sweeper. The little creature, having somehow confounded
his passage among the intricacies of those lordly chimneys, by some unknown aperture had alighted
upon this magnificent chamber; and, tired with his tedious explorations, was unable to resist
the delicious invitement to repose, which he there saw exhibited; so, creeping between the
sheets very quietly, laid his black head upon the pillow, and slept like a young Howard.

Such is the account given to the visitors at the Castle.--But I cannot help seeming to perceive
a confirmation of what I have just hinted at in this story. A high instinct was at work in
the case, or I am mistaken. Is it probable that a poor child of that description, with whatever
weariness he might be visited, would have ventured, under such a penalty, as he would be taught
to expect, to uncover the sheets of a Duke's bed, and deliberately to lay himself down between
them, when the rug, or the carpet, presented an obvious couch, still far above his pretensions--is
this probable, I would ask, if the great power of nature, which I contend for, had not been
manifested within him, prompting to the adventure? Doubtless this young nobleman (for such
my mind misgives me that he must be) was allured by some memory, not amounting to full consciousness,
of his condition in infancy, when he was used to be lapt by his mother, or his nurse, in just
such sheets as he there found, into which he was now but creeping back as into his proper incunabula,
and resting-place.--By no other theory, than by this sentiment of a pre-existent state (as
I may call it), can I explain a deed so venturous, and, indeed, upon any other system, so indecorous,
in this tender, but unseasonable, sleeper.

My pleasant friend JEM WHITE was so impressed with a belief of metamorphoses like this frequently
taking place, that in some sort to reverse the wrongs of fortune in these poor changelings,
he instituted an annual feast of chimney-sweepers, at which it was his pleasure to officiate
as host and waiter. It was a solemn supper held in Smithfield, upon the yearly return of the
fair of St. Bartholomew. Cards were issued a week before to the master-sweeps in and about
the metropolis, confining the invitation to their younger fry. Now and then an elderly stripling
would get in among us, and be good-naturedly winked at; but our main body were infantry. One
unfortunate wight, indeed, who, relying upon his dusky suit, had intruded himself into our
party, but by tokens was providentially discovered in time to be no chimney-sweeper (all is
not soot which looks so), was quoited out of the presence with universal indignation, as not
having on the wedding garment; but in general the greatest harmony prevailed. The place chosen
was a convenient spot among the pens, at the north side of the fair, not so far distant as
to be impervious to the agreeable hubbub of that vanity; but remote enough not to be obvious
to the interruption of every gaping spectator in it. The guests assembled about seven. In those
little temporary parlours three tables were spread with napery, not so fine as substantial,
and at every board a comely hostess presided with her pan of hissing sausages. The nostrils
of the young rogues dilated at the savour. JAMES WHITE, as head waiter, had charge of the first
table; and myself, with our trusty companion BIGOD, ordinarily ministered to the other two.
There was clambering and jostling, you may be sure, who should get at the first table--for
Rochester in his maddest days could not have done the humours of the scene with more spirit
than my friend. After some general expression of thanks for the honour the company had done
him, his inaugural ceremony was to clasp the greasy waist of old dame Ursula (the fattest of
the three), that stood frying and fretting, half-blessing, half-cursing "the gentleman," and
imprint upon her chaste lips a tender salute, whereat the universal host would set up a shout
that tore the concave, while hundreds of grinning teeth startled the night with their brightness.
O it was a pleasure to see the sable younkers lick in the unctuous meat, with his more unctuous
sayings--how he would fit the tit bits to the puny mouths, reserving the lengthier links for
the seniors--how he would intercept a morsel even in the jaws of some young desperado, declaring
it "must to the pan again to be browned, for it was not fit for a gentleman's eating"--how
he would recommend this slice of white bread, or that piece of kissing-crust, to a tender juvenile,
advising them all to have a care of cracking their teeth, which were their best patrimony,--how
genteelly he would deal about the small ale, as if it were wine, naming the brewer, and protesting,
if it were not good, he should lose their custom; with a special recommendation to wipe the
lip before drinking. Then we had our toasts--"The King,"--the "Cloth,"--which, whether they
understood or not, was equally diverting and flattering;--and for a crowning sentiment, which
never failed, "May the Brush supersede the Laurel!" All these, and fifty other fancies, which
were rather felt than comprehended by his guests, would he utter, standing upon tables, and
prefacing every sentiment with a "Gentlemen, give me leave to propose so and so," which was
a prodigious comfort to those young orphans; every now and then stuffing into his mouth (for
it did not do to be squeamish on these occasions) indiscriminate pieces of those reeking sausages,
which pleased them mightily, and was the savouriest part, you may believe, of the entertainment.

  Golden lads and lasses must. From the crowded crossing, from the corners of streets
and turnings of allies, the parting Genius of Beggary is "with sighing
sent."

I do not approve of this wholesale going to work, this impertinent crusado, or bellum ad exterminationem,
proclaimed against a species. Much good might be sucked from these Beggars.

They were the oldest and the honourablest form of pauperism. Their appeals were to our common
nature; less revolting to an ingenuous mind than to be a suppliant to the particular humours
or caprice of any fellow-creature, or set of fellow-creatures, parochial or societarian. Theirs
were the only rates uninvidious in the levy, ungrudged in the assessment.

The greatest spirits have felt this in their reverses; and when Dionysius from king turned
schoolmaster, do we feel any thing towards him but contempt? Could Vandyke have made a picture
of him, swaying a ferula for a sceptre, which would have affected our minds with the same heroic
pity, the same compassionate admiration, with which we regard his Belisarius begging for an
obolum? Would the moral have been more graceful, more pathetic?

The Blind Beggar in the legend--the father of pretty Bessy--whose story doggrel rhymes and
ale-house signs cannot so degrade or attenuate, but that some sparks of a lustrous spirit will
shine through the disguisements--this noble Earl of Cornwall (as indeed he was) and memorable
sport of fortune, fleeing from the unjust sentence of his liege lord, stript of all, and seated
on the flowering green of Bethnal, with his more fresh and springing daughter by his side,
illumining his rags and his beggary--would the child and parent have cut a better figure, doing
the honours of a counter, or expiating their fallen condition upon the three-foot eminence
of some sempstering shop-board?

In tale or history your Beggar is ever the just antipode to your King. The poets and romancical
writers (as dear Margaret Newcastle would call them) when they would most sharply and feelingly
paint a reverse of fortune, never stop till they have brought down their hero in good earnest
to rags and the wallet. The depth of the descent illustrates the height he falls from. There
is no medium which can be presented to the imagination without offence. There is no breaking
the fall. Lear, thrown from his palace, must divest him of his garments, till he answer "mere
nature;" and Cresseid, fallen from a prince's love, must extend her pale arms, pale with other
whiteness than of beauty, supplicating lazar alms with bell and clap-dish.

The Lucian wits knew this very well; and, with a converse policy, when they would express scorn
of greatness without the pity, they show us an Alexander in the shades cobbling shoes, or a
Semiramis getting up foul linen.

How would it sound in song, that a great monarch had declined his affections upon the daughter
of a baker! yet do we feel the imagination at all violated when we read the "true ballad,"
where King Cophetua wooes the beggar maid?

Pauperism, pauper, poor man, are expressions of pity, but pity alloyed with contempt. No one
properly contemns a beggar. Poverty is a comparative thing, and each degree of it is mocked
by its "neighbour grice." Its poor rents and comings-in are soon summed up and told. Its pretences
to property are almost ludicrous. Its pitiful attempts to save excite a smile. Every scornful
companion can weigh his trifle-bigger purse against it. Poor man reproaches poor man in the
streets with impolitic mention of his condition, his own being a shade better, while the rich
pass by and jeer at both. No rascally comparative insults a Beggar, or thinks of weighing purses
with him. He is not in the scale of comparison. He is not under the measure of property. He
confessedly hath none, any more than a dog or a sheep. No one twitteth him with ostentation
above his means. No one accuses him of pride, or upbraideth him with mock humility. None jostle
with him for the wall, or pick quarrels for precedency. No wealthy neighbour seeketh to eject
him from his tenement. No man sues him. No man goes to law with him. If I were not the independent
gentleman that I am, rather than I would be a retainer to the great, a led captain, or a poor
relation, I would choose, out of the delicacy and true greatness of my mind, to be a Beggar.
The ups and downs of the world concern him no longer. He alone continueth in one stay. The
price of stock or land affecteth him not. The fluctuations of agricultural or commercial prosperity
touch him not, or at worst but change his customers. He is not expected to become bail or surety
for any one. No man troubleth him with questioning his religion or politics. He is the only
free man in the universe. The Mendicants of this great city were so many of her sights, her
lions. I can no more spare them than I could the Cries of London. No corner of a street is
complete without them. They are as indispensable as the Ballad Singer; and in their picturesque
attire as ornamental as the Signs of old London. They were the standing morals, emblems, mementos,
dial-mottos, the spital sermons, the books for children, the salutary checks and pauses to
the high and rushing tide of greasy citizenry--

                      --Look
  Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there.

Above all, those old blind Tobits that used to line the wall of Lincoln's Inn Garden, before
modern fastidiousness had expelled them, casting up their ruined orbs to catch a ray of pity,
and (if possible) of light, with their faithful Dog Guide at their feet,--whither are they
fled? or into what corners, blind as themselves, have they been driven, out of the wholesome
air and sun-warmth? immersed between four walls, in what withering poor-house do they endure
the penalty of double darkness, where the chink of the dropt half-penny no more consoles their
forlorn bereavement, far from the sound of the cheerful and hope-stirring tread of the passenger?
Where hang their useless staves? and who will farm their dogs?--Have the overseers of St. L----
caused them to be shot? or were they tied up in sacks, and dropt into the Thames, at the suggestion
of B----, the mild rector of ----?

Well fare the soul of unfastidious Vincent Bourne, most classical, and at the same time, most
English, of the Latinists!--who has treated of this human and quadrupedal alliance, this dog
and man friendship, in the sweetest of his poems, the Epitaphium in Canem, or, Dog's Epitaph.
Reader, peruse it; and say, if customary sights, which could call up such gentle poetry as
this, were of a nature to do more harm or good to the moral sense of the passengers through
the daily thoroughfares of a vast and busy metropolis.

  Pauperis hic Iri requiesco Lyciscus, herilis,
  Dum vixi, tutela vigil columenque senectæ,
  Dux cæco fidus: nec, me ducente, solebat,
  Prætenso hinc atque hinc baculo, per iniqua locorum
  Incertam explorare viam; sed fila secutus,
  Quæ dubios regerent passûs, vestigia tuta
  Fixit inoffenso gressu; gelidumque sedile
  In nudo nactus saxo, qua prætereuntium
  Unda frequens confluxit, ibi miserisque tenebras
  Lamentis, noctemque oculis ploravit obortam.
  Ploravit nec frustra; obolum dedit alter et alter,
  Queis corda et mentem indiderat natura benignam.
  Ad latus interea jacui sopitus herile,
  Vel mediis vigil in somnis; ad herilia jussa
  Auresque atque animum arrectus, seu frustula amice
  Porrexit sociasque dapes, seu longa diei
  Tædia perpessus, reditum sub nocte parabat.

  Hi mores, hæc vita fuit, dum fata sinebant,
  Dum neque languebam morbis, nec inerte senectâ;
  Quæ tandem obrepsit, veterique satellite cæcum
  Orbavit dominum: prisci sed gratia facti
  Ne tola intereat, longos deleta per annos,
  Exiguum hunc Irus tumulum de cespite fecit,
  Etsi inopis, non ingratæ, munuscula dextræ;
  Carmine signavitque brevi, dominumque canemque
  Quod memoret, fidumque canem dominumque benignum.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Poor Irus' faithful wolf-dog here I lie,
  That wont to tend my old blind master's steps,
  His guide and guard: nor, while my service lasted,
  Had he occasion for that staff, with which
  He now goes picking out his path in fear
  Over the highways and crossings; but would plant,
  Safe in the conduct of my friendly string,
  A firm foot forward still, till he had reach'd
  His poor seat on some stone, nigh where the tide
  Of passers by in thickest confluence flow'd:
  To whom with loud and passionate laments
  From morn to eve his dark estate he wail'd.
  Nor wail'd to all in vain: some here and there,
  The well-disposed and good, their pennies gave.
  I meantime at his feet obsequious slept;
  Not all-asleep in sleep, but heart and ear
  Prick'd up at his least motion; to receive
  At his kind hand ray customary crums,
  And common portion in his feast of scraps;
  Or when night warn'd us homeward, tired and spent
  With our long day and tedious beggary.

  These were my manners, this my way of life,
  Till age and slow disease me overtook,
  And sever'd from my sightless master's side.
  But lest the grace of so good deeds should die.
  Through tract of years in mute oblivion lost,
  This slender tomb of turf hath Irus reared,
  Cheap monument of no ungrudging hand,
  And with short verse inscribed it, to attest,
  In long and lasting union to attest,
  The virtues of the Beggar and his Dog.

These dim eyes have in vain explored for some months past a well-known figure, or part of the
figure, of a man, who used to glide his comely upper half over the pavements of London, wheeling
along with most ingenious celerity upon a machine of wood; a spectacle to natives, to foreigners,
and to children. He was of a robust make, with a florid sailor-like complexion, and his head
was bare to the storm and sunshine. He was a natural curiosity, a speculation to the scientific,
a prodigy to the simple. The infant would stare at the mighty man brought down to his own level.
The common cripple would despise his own pusillanimity, viewing the hale stoutness, and hearty
heart, of this half-limbed giant. Few but must have noticed him; for the accident, which brought
him low, took place during the riots of 1780, and he has been a groundling so long. He seemed
earth-born, an Antæus, and to suck in fresh vigour from the soil which he neighboured. He was
a grand fragment; as good as an Elgin marble. The nature, which should have recruited his reft
legs and thighs, was not lost, but only retired into his upper parts, and he was half a Hercules.
I heard a tremendous voice thundering and growling, as before an earthquake, and, casting down
my eyes, it was this mandrake reviling a steed that had started at his portentous appearance.
He seemed to want but his just stature to have rent the offending quadruped in shivers. He
was as the man-part of a Centaur, from which the horse-half had been cloven in some dire Lapithan
controversy. He moved on, as if he could have made shift with yet half of the body-portion
which was left him. The os sublime was not wanting; and he threw out yet a jolly countenance
upon the heavens. Forty-and-two years had he driven this out of door trade, and now that his
hair is grizzled in the service, but his good spirits no way impaired, because he is not content
to exchange his free air and exercise for the restraints of a poor-house, he is expiating his
contumacy in one of those houses (ironically christened) of Correction.

Was a daily spectacle like this to be deemed a nuisance, which called for legal interference
to remove? or not rather a salutary and a touching object, to the passers-by in a great city?
Among her shows, her museums, and supplies for ever-gaping curiosity (and what else but an
accumulation of sights--endless sights--is a great city; or for what else is it desirable?)
was there not room for one Lusus (not Naturæ, indeed, but) Accidentium? What if in forty-and-two
years' going about, the man had scraped together enough to give a portion to his child (as
the rumour ran) of a few hundreds--whom had he injured?--whom had he imposed upon? The contributors
had enjoyed their sight for their pennies. What if after being exposed all day to the heats,
the rains, and the frosts of heaven--shuffling his ungainly trunk along in an elaborate and
painful motion--he was enabled to retire at night to enjoy himself at a club of his fellow
cripples over a dish of hot meat and vegetables, as the charge was gravely brought against
him by a clergyman deposing before a House of Commons' Committee--was this, or was his truly
paternal consideration, which (if a fact) deserved a statue rather than a whipping-post, and
is inconsistent at least with the exaggeration of nocturnal orgies which he has been slandered
with--a reason that he should be deprived of his chosen, harmless, nay edifying, way of life,
and be committed in hoary age for a sturdy vagabond?--

There was a Yorick once, whom it would not have shamed to have sate down at the cripples' feast,
and to have thrown in his benediction, ay, and his mite too, for a companionable symbol. "Age,
thou hast lost thy breed."--

Half of these stories about the prodigious fortunes made by begging are (I verily believe)
misers' calumnies. One was much talked of in the public papers some time since, and the usual
charitable inferences deduced. A clerk in the Bank was surprised with the announcement of a
five hundred pound legacy left him by a person whose name he was a stranger to. It seems that
in his daily morning walks from Peckham (or some village thereabouts) where he lived, to his
office, it had been his practice for the last twenty years to drop his half-penny duly into
the hat of some blind Bartimeus, that sate begging alms by the way-side in the Borough. The
good old beggar recognised his daily benefactor by the voice only; and, when he died, left
all the amassings of his alms (that had been half a century perhaps in the accumulating) to
his old Bank friend. Was this a story to purse up people's hearts, and pennies, against giving
an alms to the blind?--or not rather a beautiful moral of well-directed charity on the one
part, and noble gratitude upon the other?

I sometimes wish I had been that Bank clerk.

I seem to remember a poor old grateful kind of creature, blinking, and looking up with his
no eyes in the sun--Is it possible I could have steeled my purse against him?

Perhaps I had no small change.

Reader, do not be frightened at the hard words, imposition, imposture--give, and ask no questions.
Cast thy bread upon the waters. Some have unawares (like this Bank clerk) entertained angels.

Shut not thy purse-strings always against painted distress. Act a charity sometimes. When a
poor creature (outwardly and visibly such) comes before thee, do not stay to inquire whether
the "seven small children," in whose name he implores thy assistance, have a veritable existence.
Rake not into the bowels of unwelcome truth, to save a halfpenny. It is good to believe him.
If he be not all that he pretendeth, give, and under a personate father of a family, think
(if thou pleasest) that thou hast relieved an indigent bachelor. When they come with their
counterfeit looks, and mumping tones, think them players. You pay your money to see a comedian
feign these things, which, concerning these poor people, thou canst not certainly tell whether
they are feigned or not. He burnt his fingers, and to cool them he applied them in his booby
fashion to his mouth.

Of all the delicacies in the whole mundus edibilis, I will maintain it to be the most delicate--princeps
obsoniorum.

I speak not of your grown porkers--things between pig and pork--those hobbydehoys--but a young
and tender suckling--under a moon old--guiltless as yet of the sty--with no original speck
of the amor immunditiæ, the hereditary failing of the first parent, yet manifest--his voice
as yet not broken, but something between a childish treble, and a grumble--the mild forerunner,
or præludium, of a grunt.

He must be roasted. I am not ignorant that our ancestors ate them seethed, or boiled--but what
a sacrifice of the exterior tegument! Ten to one he would have proved a glutton, a sloven,
an obstinate, disagreeable animal--wallowing in all manner of filthy conversation--from these
sins he is happily snatched away--

  Ere sin could blight, or sorrow fade,
  Death came with timely care--

his memory is odoriferous--no clown curseth, while his stomach half rejecteth, the rank bacon--no
coalheaver bolteth him in reeking sausages--he hath a fair sepulchre in the grateful stomach
of the judicious epicure--and for such a tomb might be content to die.

He is the best of Sapors. Pine-apple is great. She is indeed almost too transcendent--a delight,
if not sinful, yet so like to sinning, that really a tender-conscienced person would do well
to pause--too ravishing for mortal taste, she woundeth and excoriateth the lips that approach
her--like lovers' kisses, she biteth--she is a pleasure bordering on pain from the fierceness
and insanity of her relish--but she stoppeth at the palate--she meddleth not with the appetite--and
the coarsest hunger might barter her consistently for a mutton chop.

Pig--let me speak his praise--is no less provocative of the appetite, than he is satisfactory
to the criticalness of the censorious palate. The strong man may batten on him, and the weakling
refuseth not his mild juices.

Unlike to mankind's mixed characters, a bundle of virtues and vices, inexplicably intertwisted,
and not to be unravelled without hazard, he is--good throughout. No part of him is better or
worse than another. He helpeth, as far as his little means extend, all around. He is the least
envious of banquets. He is all neighbours' fare.

I am one of those, who freely and ungrudgingly impart a share of the good things of this life
which fall to their lot (few as mine are in this kind) to a friend. I protest I take as great
an interest in my friend's pleasures, his relishes, and proper satisfactions, as in mine own.
"Presents," I often say, "endear Absents." Hares, pheasants, partridges, snipes, barn-door
chicken (those "tame villatic fowl"), capons, plovers, brawn, barrels of oysters, I dispense
as freely as I receive them. I love to taste them, as it were, upon the tongue of my friend.
But a stop must be put somewhere. One would not, like Lear, "give every thing." I make my stand
upon pig. Methinks it is an ingratitude to the Giver of all good flavours, to extra-domiciliate,
or send out of the house, slightingly, (under pretext of friendship, or I know not what) a
blessing so particularly adapted, predestined, I may say, to my individual palate--It argues
an insensibility.

I remember a touch of conscience in this kind at school. My good old aunt, who never parted
from me at the end of a holiday without stuffing a sweet-meat, or some nice thing, into my
pocket, had dismissed me one evening with a smoking plum-cake, fresh from the oven. In my way
to school (it was over London bridge) a grey-headed old beggar saluted me (I have no doubt
at this time of day that he was a counterfeit). I had no pence to console him with, and in
the vanity of self-denial, and the very coxcombry of charity, school-boy-like, I made him a
present of--the whole cake! I walked on a little, buoyed up, as one is on such occasions, with
a sweet soothing of self-satisfaction; but before I had got to the end of the bridge, my better
feelings returned, and I burst into tears, thinking how ungrateful I had been to my good aunt,
to go and give her good gift away to a stranger, that I had never seen before, and who might
be a bad man for aught I knew; and then I thought of the pleasure my aunt would be taking in
thinking that I--I myself, and not another--would eat her nice cake--and what should I say
to her the next time I saw her--how naughty I was to part with her pretty present--and the
odour of that spicy cake came back upon my recollection, and the pleasure and the curiosity
I had taken in seeing her make it, and her joy when she sent it to the oven, and how disappointed
she would feel that I had never had a bit of it in my mouth at last--and I blamed my impertinent
spirit of alms-giving, and out-of-place hypocrisy of goodness, and above all I wished never
to see the face again of that insidious, good-for-nothing, old grey impostor. I forget the
decision.

His sauce should be considered.

A BACHELOR'S COMPLAINT OF THE BEHAVIOUR OF MARRIED PEOPLE

As a single man, I have spent a good deal of my time in noting down the infirmities of Married
People, to console myself for those superior pleasures, which they tell me I have lost by remaining
as I am.

I cannot say that the quarrels of men and their wives ever made any great impression upon me,
or had much tendency to strengthen me in those anti-social resolutions, which I took up long
ago upon more substantial considerations. What oftenest offends me at the houses of married
persons where I visit, is an error of quite a different description;--it is that they are too
loving.

Not too loving neither: that does not explain my meaning. Besides, why should that offend me?
The very act of separating themselves from the rest of the world, to have the fuller enjoyment
of each other's society, implies that they prefer one another to all the world.

But what I complain of is, that they carry this preference so undisguisedly, they perk it up
in the faces of us single people so shamelessly, you cannot be in their company a moment without
being made to feel, by some indirect hint or open avowal, that you are not the object of this
preference. Now there are some things which give no offence, while implied or taken for granted
merely; but expressed, there is much offence in them. If a man were to accost the first homely-featured
or plain-dressed young woman of his acquaintance, and tell her bluntly, that she was not handsome
or rich enough for him, and he could not marry her, he would deserve to be kicked for his ill
manners; yet no less is implied in the fact, that having access and opportunity of putting
the question to her, he has never yet thought fit to do it. The young woman understands this
as clearly as if it were put into words; but no reasonable young woman would think of making
this the ground of a quarrel. Just as little right have a married couple to tell me by speeches,
and looks that are scarce less plain than speeches, that I am not the happy man,--the lady's
choice. It is enough that I know I am not: I do not want this perpetual reminding.

The display of superior knowledge or riches may be made sufficiently mortifying; but these
admit of a palliative. The knowledge which is brought out to insult me, may accidentally improve
me; and in the rich man's houses and pictures,--his parks and gardens, I have a temporary usufruct
at least. But the display of married happiness has none of these palliatives: it is throughout
pure, unrecompensed, unqualified insult.

Marriage by its best title is a monopoly, and not of the least invidious sort. It is the cunning
of most possessors of any exclusive privilege to keep their advantage as much out of sight
as possible, that their less favoured neighbours, seeing little of the benefit, may the less
be disposed to question the right. But these married monopolists thrust the most obnoxious
part of their patent into our faces. It is true, I have none; nor wishes either, perhaps: but
this is one of those truths which ought, as I said before, to be taken for granted, not expressed.
The excessive airs which those people give themselves, founded on the ignorance of us unmarried
people, would be more offensive if they were less irrational. We will allow them to understand
the mysteries belonging to their own craft better than we who have not had the happiness to
be made free of the company: but their arrogance is not content within these limits. If a single
person presume to offer his opinion in their presence, though upon the most indifferent subject,
he is immediately silenced as an incompetent person. Nay, a young married lady of my acquaintance,
who, the best of the jest was, had not changed her condition above a fortnight before, in a
question on which I had the misfortune to differ from her, respecting the properest mode of
breeding oysters for the London market, had the assurance to ask with a sneer, how such an
old Bachelor as I could pretend to know any thing about such matters.

But what I have spoken of hitherto is nothing to the airs which these creatures give themselves
when they come, as they generally do, to have children. When I consider how little of a rarity
children are,--that every street and blind alley swarms with them,--that the poorest people
commonly have them in most abundance,--that there are few marriages that are not blest with
at least one of these bargains,--how often they turn out ill, and defeat the fond hopes of
their parents, taking to vicious courses, which end in poverty, disgrace, the gallows, &c.--I
cannot for my life tell what cause for pride there can possibly be in having them. If they
were young phoenixes, indeed, that were born but one in a year, there might be a pretext. But
when they are so common--

I do not advert to the insolent merit which they assume with their husbands on these occasions.
Let them look to that. But why we, who are not their natural-born subjects, should be expected
to bring our spices, myrrh, and incense,--our tribute and homage of admiration,--I do not see.

"Like as the arrows in the hand of the giant, even so are the young children:" so says the
excellent office in our Prayer-book appointed for the churching of women. "Happy is the man
that hath his quiver full of them:" So say I; but then don't let him discharge his quiver upon
us that are weaponless;--let them be arrows, but not to gall and stick us. I have generally
observed that these arrows are double-headed: they have two forks, to be sure to hit with one
or the other. As for instance, when you come into a house which is full of children, if you
happen to take no notice of them (you are thinking of something else, perhaps, and turn a deaf
ear to their innocent caresses), you are set down as untractable, morose, a hater of children.
On the other hand, if you find them more than usually engaging,--if you are taken with their
pretty manners, and set about in earnest to romp and play with them, some pretext or other
is sure to be found for sending them out of the room: they are too noisy or boisterous, or
Mr. ---- does not like children. With one or other of these forks the arrow is sure to hit you.

I could forgive their jealousy, and dispense with toying with their brats, if it gives them
any pain; but I think it unreasonable to be called upon to love them, where I see no occasion,--to
love a whole family, perhaps, eight, nine, or ten, indiscriminately,--to love all the pretty
dears, because children are so engaging.

I know there is a proverb, "Love me, love my dog:" that is not always so very practicable,
particularly if the dog be set upon you to tease you or snap at you in sport. But a dog, or
a lesser thing,--any inanimate substance, as a keep-sake, a watch or a ring, a tree, or the
place where we last parted when my friend went away upon a long absence, I can make shift to
love, because I love him, and any thing that reminds me of him; provided it be in its nature
indifferent, and apt to receive whatever hue fancy can give it. But children have a real character
and an essential being of themselves: they are amiable or unamiable per se; I must love or
hate them as I see cause for either 'in their qualities. A child's nature is too serious a
thing to admit of its being regarded as a mere appendage to another being, and to be loved
or hated accordingly: they stand with me upon their own stock, as much as men and women do.
O! but you will say, sure it is an attractive age,--there is something in the tender years
of infancy that of itself charms us. That is the very reason why I am more nice about them.
I know that a sweet child is the sweetest thing in nature, not even excepting the delicate
creatures which bear them; but the prettier the kind of a thing is, the more desirable it is
that it should be pretty of its kind. One daisy differs not much from another in glory; but
a violet should look and smell the daintiest.--I was always rather squeamish in my women and
children.

But this is not the worst: one must be admitted into their familiarity at least, before they
can complain of inattention. It implies visits, and some kind of intercourse. But if the husband
be a man with whom you have lived on a friendly footing before marriage,--if you did not come
in on the wife's side,--if you did not sneak into the house in her train, but were an old friend
in fast habits of intimacy before their courtship was so much as thought on,--look about you--your
tenure is precarious--before a twelve-month shall roll over your head, you shall find your
old friend gradually grow cool and altered towards you, and at last seek opportunities of breaking
with you. I have scarce a married friend of my acquaintance, upon whose firm faith I can rely,
whose friendship did not commence after the period of his marriage. With some limitations they
can endure that: but that the good man should have dared to enter into a solemn league of friendship
in which they were not consulted, though it happened before they knew him,--before they that
are now man and wife ever met,--this is intolerable to them. Every long friendship, every old
authentic intimacy, must be brought into their office to be new stamped with their currency,
as a sovereign Prince calls in the good old money that was coined in some reign before he was
born or thought of, to be new marked and minted with the stamp of his authority, before he
will let it pass current in the world. You may guess what luck generally befalls such a rusty
piece of metal as I am in these new mintings.

Innumerable are the ways which they take to insult and worm you out of their husband's confidence.
Laughing at all you say with a kind of wonder, as if you were a queer kind of fellow that said
good things, but an oddity, is one of the ways;--they have a particular kind of stare for the
purpose;--till at last the husband, who used to defer to your judgment, and would pass over
some excrescences of understanding and manner for the sake of a general vein of observation
(not quite vulgar) which he perceived in you, begins to suspect whether you are not altogether
a humorist,--a fellow well enough to have consorted with in his bachelor days, but not quite
so proper to be introduced to ladies. This may be called the staring way; and is that which
has oftenest been put in practice against me.

Then there is the exaggerating way, or the way of irony: that is, where they find you an object
of especial regard with their husband, who is not so easily to be shaken from the lasting attachment
founded on esteem which he has conceived towards you; by never-qualified exaggerations to cry
up all that you say or do, till the good man, who understands well enough that it is all done
in compliment to him, grows weary of the debt of gratitude which is due to so much candour,
and by relaxing a little on his part, and taking down a peg or two in his enthusiasm, sinks
at length to that kindly level of moderate esteem,--that "decent affection and complacent kindness"
towards you, where she herself can join in sympathy with him without much stretch and violence
to her sincerity.

Another way (for the ways they have to accomplish so desirable a purpose are infinite) is,
with a kind of innocent simplicity, continually to mistake what it was which first made their
husband fond of you. If an esteem for something excellent in your moral character was that
which riveted the chain which she is to break, upon any imaginary discovery of a want of poignancy
in your conversation, she will cry, "I thought, my dear, you described your friend, Mr. ----
as a great wit." If, on the other hand, it was for some supposed charm in your conversation
that he first grew to like you, and was content for this to overlook some trifling irregularities
in your moral deportment, upon the first notice of any of these she as readily exclaims, "This,
my dear, is your good Mr. ----." One good lady whom I took the liberty of expostulating with
for not showing me quite so much respect as I thought due to her husband's old friend, had
the candour to confess to me that she had often heard Mr. ---- speak of me before marriage,
and that she had conceived a great desire to be acquainted with me, but that the sight of me
had very much disappointed her expectations; for from her husband's representations of me,
she had formed a notion that she was to see a fine, tall, officer-like looking man (I use her
very words); the very reverse of which proved to be the truth. This was candid; and I had the
civility not to ask her in return, how she came to pitch upon a standard of personal accomplishments
for her husband's friends which differed so much from his own; for my friend's dimensions as
near as possible approximate to mine; he standing five feet five in his shoes, in which I have
the advantage of him by about half an inch; and he no more than myself exhibiting any indications
of a martial character in his air or countenance.

These are some of the mortifications which I have encountered in the absurd attempt to visit
at their houses. To enumerate them all would be a vain endeavour: I shall therefore just glance
at the very common impropriety of which married ladies are guilty,--of treating us as if we
were their husbands, and vice versâ. I mean, when they use us with familiarity, and their husbands
with ceremony. Testacea, for instance, kept me the other night two or three hours beyond my
usual time of supping, while she was fretting because Mr. ---- did not come home, till the
oysters were all spoiled, rather than she would be guilty of the impoliteness of touching one
in his absence. This was reversing the point of good manners: for ceremony is an invention
to take off the uneasy feeling which we derive from knowing ourselves to be less the object
of love and esteem with a fellow-creature than some other person is. It endeavours to make
up, by superior attentions in little points, for that invidious preference which it is forced
to deny in the greater. Had Testacea kept the oysters back for me, and withstood her husband's
importunities to go to supper, she would have acted according to the strict rules of propriety.
I know no ceremony that ladies are bound to observe to their husbands, beyond the point of
a modest behaviour and decorum: therefore I must protest against the vicarious gluttony of
Cerasia, who at her own table sent away a dish of Morellas, which I was applying to with great
good will, to her husband at the other end of the table, and recommended a plate of less extraordinary
gooseberries to my unwedded palate in their stead. Neither can I excuse the wanton affront of ----.

But I am weary of stringing up all my married acquaintance by Roman denominations. Let them
amend and change their manners, or I promise to record the full-length English of their names,
to the terror of all such desperate offenders in future.

ON SOME OF THE OLD ACTORS

The casual sight of an old Play Bill, which I picked up the other day--I know not by what chance
it was preserved so long--tempts me to call to mind a few of the Players, who make the principal
figure in it. It presents the cast of parts in the Twelfth Night, at the old Drury-lane Theatre
two-and-thirty years ago. There is something very touching in these old remembrances.

Those who have only seen Mrs. Jordan within the last ten or fifteen years, can have no adequate
notion of her performance of such parts as Ophelia; Helena, in All's Well that Ends Well; and
Viola in this play. Her voice had latterly acquired a coarseness, which suited well enough
with her Nells and Hoydens, but in those days it sank, with her steady melting eye, into the
heart. Her joyous parts--in which her memory now chiefly lives--in her youth were outdone by
her plaintive ones. There is no giving an account how she delivered the disguised story of
her love for Orsino. It was no set speech, that she had foreseen, so as to weave it into an
harmonious period, line necessarily following line, to make up the music--yet I have heard
it so spoken, or rather read, not without its grace and beauty--but, when she had declared
her sister's history to be a "blank," and that she "never told her love," there was a pause,
as if the story had ended--and then the image of the "worm in the bud" came up as a new suggestion--and
the heightened image of "Patience" still followed after that, as by some growing (and not mechanical)
process, thought springing up after thought, I would almost say, as they were watered by her
tears. So in those fine lines--

  Write loyal cantos of contemned love--
  Hollow your name to the reverberate hills--

there was no preparation made in the foregoing image for that which was to follow. She used
no rhetoric in her passion; or it was nature's own rhetoric, most legitimate then, when it
seemed altogether without rule or law.

Mrs. Powel (now Mrs. Renard), then in the pride of her beauty, made an admirable Olivia. She
was particularly excellent in her unbending scenes in conversation with the Clown. I have seen
some Olivias--and those very sensible actresses too--who in these interlocutions have seemed
to set their wits at the jester, and to vie conceits with him in downright emulation. But she
used him for her sport, like what he was, to trifle a leisure sentence or two with, and then
to be dismissed, and she to be the Great Lady still. She touched the imperious fantastic humour
of the character with nicety. Her fine spacious person filled the scene.

The part of Malvolio has in my judgment been so often misunderstood, and the general merits
of the actor, who then played it, so unduly appreciated, that I shall hope for pardon, if I
am a little prolix upon these points.

Of all the actors who flourished in my time--a melancholy phrase if taken aright, reader--Bensley
had most of the swell of soul, was greatest in the delivery of heroic conceptions, the emotions
consequent upon the presentment of a great idea to the fancy. He had the true poetical enthusiasm--the
rarest faculty among players. None that I remember possessed even a portion of that fine madness
which he threw out in Hotspur's famous rant about glory, or the transports of the Venetian
incendiary at the vision of the fired city. His voice had the dissonance, and at times the
inspiriting effect of the trumpet. His gait was uncouth and stiff, but no way embarrassed by
affectation; and the thorough-bred gentleman was uppermost in every movement. He seized the
moment of passion with the greatest truth; like a faithful clock, never striking before the
time; never anticipating or leading you to anticipate. He was totally destitute of trick and
artifice. He seemed come upon the stage to do the poet's message simply, and he did it with
as genuine fidelity as the nuncios in Homer deliver the errands of the gods. He let the passion
or the sentiment do its own work without prop or bolstering. He would have scorned to mountebank
it; and betrayed none of that cleverness which is the bane of serious acting. For this reason,
his Iago was the only endurable one which I remember to have seen. No spectator from his action
could divine more of his artifice than Othello was supposed to do. His confessions in soliloquy
alone put you in possession of the mystery. There were no by-intimations to make the audience
fancy their own discernment so much greater than that of the Moor--who commonly stands like
a great helpless mark set up for mine Ancient, and a quantity of barren spectators, to shoot
their bolts at. The Iago of Bensley did not go to work so grossly. There was a triumphant tone
about the character, natural to a general consciousness of power; but none of that petty vanity
which chuckles and cannot contain itself upon any little successful stroke of its knavery--as
is common with your small villains, and green probationers in mischief. It did not clap or
crow before its time. It was not a man setting his wits at a child, and winking all the while
at other children who are mightily pleased at being let into the secret; but a consummate villain
entrapping a noble nature into toils, against which no discernment was available, where the
manner was as fathomless as the purpose seemed dark, and without motive. The part of Malvolio,
in the Twelfth Night, was performed by Bensley, with a richness and a dignity, of which (to
judge from some recent castings of that character) the very tradition must be worn out from
the stage. No manager in those days would have dreamed of giving it to Mr. Baddeley, or Mr.
Parsons: when Bensley was occasionally absent from the theatre, John Kemble thought it no derogation
to succeed to the part. Malvolio is not essentially ludicrous. He becomes comic but by accident.
He is cold, austere, repelling; but dignified, consistent, and, for what appears, rather of
an over-stretched morality. Maria describes him as a sort of Puritan; and he might have worn
his gold chain with honour in one of our old round-head families, in the service of a Lambert,
or a Lady Fairfax. But his morality and his manners are misplaced in Illyria. He is opposed
to the proper levities of the piece, and falls in the unequal contest. Still his pride, or
his gravity, (call it which you will) is inherent, and native to the man, not mock or affected,
which latter only are the fit objects to excite laughter. His quality is at the best unlovely,
but neither buffoon nor contemptible. His bearing is lofty, a little above his station, but
probably not much above his deserts. We see no reason why he should not have been brave, honourable,
accomplished. His careless committal of the ring to the ground (which he was commissioned to
restore to Cesario), bespeaks a generosity of birth and feeling. His dialect on all occasions
is that of a gentleman, and a man of education. We must not confound him with the eternal old,
low steward of comedy. He is master of the household to a great Princess; a dignity probably
conferred upon him for other respects than age or length of service. Olivia, at the first indication
of his supposed madness, declares that she "would not have him miscarry for half of her dowry."
Does this look as if the character was meant to appear little or insignificant? Once, indeed,
she accuses him to his face--of what?--of being "sick of self-love,"--but with a gentleness
and considerateness which could not have been, if she had not thought that this particular
infirmity shaded some virtues. His rebuke to the knight, and his sottish revellers, is sensible
and spirited; and when we take into consideration the unprotected condition of his mistress,
and the strict regard with which her state of real or dissembled mourning would draw the eyes
of the world upon her house-affairs, Malvolio might feel the honour of the family in some sort
in his keeping; as it appears not that Olivia had any more brothers, or kinsmen, to look to
it--for Sir Toby had dropped all such nice respects at the buttery hatch. That Malvolio was
meant to be represented as possessing estimable qualities, the expression of the Duke in his
anxiety to have him reconciled, almost infers. "Pursue him, and entreat him to a peace." Even
in his abused state of chains and darkness, a sort of greatness seems never to desert him.
He argues highly and well with the supposed Sir Topas, and philosophises gallantly upon his
straw.[1] There must have been some shadow of worth about the man; he must have been something
more than a mere vapour--a thing of straw, or Jack in office--before Fabian and Maria could
have ventured sending him upon a courting-errand to Olivia. There was some consonancy (as he
would say) in the undertaking, or the jest would have been too bold even for that house of misrule.

Bensley, accordingly, threw over the part an air of Spanish loftiness. He looked, spake, and
moved like an old Castilian. He was starch, spruce, opinionated, but his superstructure of
pride seemed bottomed upon a sense of worth. There was something in it beyond the coxcomb.
It was big and swelling, but you could not be sure that it was hollow. You might wish to see
it taken down, but you felt that it was upon an elevation. He was magnificent from the outset;
but when the decent sobrieties of the character began to give way, and the poison of self-love,
in his conceit of the Countess's affection, gradually to work, you would have thought that
the hero of La Mancha in person stood before you. How he went smiling to himself! with what
ineffable carelessness would he twirl his gold chain! what a dream it was! you were infected
with the illusion, and did not wish that it should be removed! you had no room for laughter!
if an unseasonable reflection of morality obtruded itself, it was a deep sense of the pitiable
infirmity of man's nature, that can lay him open to such frenzies--but in truth you rather
admired than pitied the lunacy while it lasted--you felt that an hour of such mistake was worth
an age with the eyes open. Who would not wish to live but for a day in the conceit of such
a lady's love as Olivia? Why, the Duke would have given his principality but for a quarter
of a minute, sleeping or waking, to have been so deluded. The man seemed to tread upon air,
to taste manna, to walk with his head in the clouds, to mate Hyperion. O! shake not the castles
of his pride--endure yet for a season bright moments of confidence--"stand still ye watches
of the element," that Malvolio may be still in fancy fair Olivia's lord--but fate and retribution
say no--I hear the mischievous titter of Maria--the witty taunts of Sir Toby--the still more
insupportable triumph of the foolish knight--the counterfeit Sir Topas is unmasked--and "thus
the whirligig of time," as the true clown hath it, "brings in his revenges." I confess that
I never saw the catastrophe of this character, while Bensley played it, without a kind of tragic
interest. There was good foolery too. Few now remember Dodd. What an Aguecheek the stage lost
in him! Lovegrove, who came nearest to the old actors, revived the character some few seasons
ago, and made it sufficiently grotesque; but Dodd was it, as it came out of Nature's hands.
It might be said to remain in puris naturalibus. In expressing slowness of apprehension this
actor surpassed all others. You could see the first dawn of an idea stealing slowly over his
countenance, climbing up by little and little, with a painful process, till it cleared up at
last to the fulness of a twilight conception--its highest meridian. He seemed to keep back
his intellect, as some have had the power to retard their pulsation. The balloon takes less
time in filling, than it took to cover the expansion of his broad moony face over all its quarters
with expression. A glimmer of understanding would appear in a corner of his eye, and for lack
of fuel go out again. A part of his forehead would catch a little intelligence, and be a long
time in communicating it to the remainder.

I am ill at dates, but I think it is now better than five and twenty years ago that walking
in the gardens of Gray's Inn--they were then far finer than they are now--the accursed Verulam
Buildings had not encroached upon all the east side of them, cutting out delicate green crankles,
and shouldering away one of two of the stately alcoves of the terrace--the survivor stands
gaping and relationless as if it remembered its brother--they are still the best gardens of
any of the Inns of Court, my beloved Temple not forgotten--have the gravest character, their
aspect being altogether reverend and law-breathing--Bacon has left the impress of his foot
upon their gravel walks--taking my afternoon solace on a summer day upon the aforesaid terrace,
a comely sad personage came towards me, whom, from his grave air and deportment, I judged to
be one of the old Benchers of the Inn. He had a serious thoughtful forehead, and seemed to
be in meditations of mortality. As I have an instinctive awe of old Benchers, I was passing
him with that sort of subindicative token of respect which one is apt to demonstrate towards
a venerable stranger, and which rather denotes an inclination to greet him, than any positive
motion of the body to that effect--a species of humility and will-worship which I observe,
nine times out of ten, rather puzzles than pleases the person it is offered to--when the face
turning full upon me strangely identified itself with that of Dodd. Upon close inspection I
was not mistaken. But could this sad thoughtful countenance be the same vacant face of folly
which I had hailed so often under circumstances of gaiety; which I had never seen without a
smile, or recognised but as the usher of mirth; that looked out so formally flat in Foppington,
so frothily pert in Tattle, so impotently busy in Backbite; so blankly divested of all meaning,
or resolutely expressive of none, in Acres, in Fribble, and a thousand agreeable impertinences?
Was this the face--full of thought and carefulness--that had so often divested itself at will
of every trace of either to give me diversion, to clear my cloudy face for two or three hours
at least of its furrows? Was this the face--manly, sober, intelligent,--which I had so often
despised, made mocks at, made merry with? The remembrance of the freedoms which I had taken
with it came upon me with a reproach of insult. I could have asked it pardon. I thought it
looked upon me with a sense of injury. There is something strange as well as sad in seeing
actors--your pleasant fellows particularly--subjected to and suffering the common lot--their
fortunes, their casualties, their deaths, seem to belong to the scene, their actions to be
amenable to poetic justice only. We can hardly connect them with more awful responsibilities.
The death of this fine actor took place shortly after this meeting. He had quitted the stage
some months; and, as I learned afterwards, had been in the habit of resorting daily to these
gardens almost to the day of his decease. In these serious walks probably he was divesting
himself of many scenic and some real vanities--weaning himself from the frivolities of the
lesser and the greater theatre--doing gentle penance for a life of no very reprehensible fooleries,--taking
off by degrees the buffoon mask which he might feel he had worn too long--and rehearsing for
a more solemn cast of part. Dying he "put on the weeds of Dominic."[2]

If few can remember Dodd, many yet living will not easily forget the pleasant creature, who
in those days enacted the part of the Clown to Dodd's Sir Andrew.--Richard, or rather Dicky
Suett--for so in his life-time he delighted to be called, and time hath ratified the appellation--lieth
buried on the north side of the cemetery of Holy Paul, to whose service his nonage and tender
years were dedicated. There are who do yet remember him at that period--his pipe clear and
harmonious. He would often speak of his chorister days, when he was "cherub Dicky."

What clipped his wings, or made it expedient that he should exchange the holy for the profane
state; whether he had lost his good voice (his best recommendation to that office), like Sir
John, "with hallooing and singing of anthems;" or whether he was adjudged to lack something,
even in those early years, of the gravity indispensable to an occupation which professeth to
"commerce with the skies"--I could never rightly learn; but we find him, after the probation
of a twelvemonth or so, reverting to a secular condition, and become one of us.

I think he was not altogether of that timber, out of which cathedral seats and sounding boards
are hewed. But if a glad heart--kind and therefore glad--be any part of sanctity, then might
the robe of Motley, with which he invested himself with so much humility after his deprivation,
and which he wore so long with so much blameless satisfaction to himself and to the public,
be accepted for a surplice--his white stole, and albe.

The first fruits of his secularization was an engagement upon the boards of Old Drury, at which
theatre he commenced, as I have been told, with adopting the manner of Parsons in old men's
characters. At the period in which most of us knew him, he was no more an imitator than he
was in any true sense himself imitable.

He was the Robin Good-Fellow of the stage. He came in to trouble all things with a welcome
perplexity, himself no whit troubled for the matter. He was known, like Puck, by his note--Ha!
Ha! Ha!--sometimes deepening to Ho! Ho! Ho! with an irresistible accession, derived perhaps
remotely from his ecclesiastical education, foreign to his prototype of,--O La! Thousands of
hearts yet respond to the chuckling O La! of Dicky Suett, brought back to their remembrance
by the faithful transcript of his friend Mathews's mimicry. The "force of nature could no further
go." He drolled upon the stock of these two syllables richer than the cuckoo.

Care, that troubles all the world, was forgotten in his composition. Had he had but two grains
(nay, half a grain) of it, he could never have supported himself upon those two spider's strings,
which served him (in the latter part of his unmixed existence) as legs. A doubt or a scruple
must have made him totter, a sigh have puffed him down; the weight of a frown had staggered
him, a wrinkle made him lose his balance. But on he went, scrambling upon those airy stilts
of his, with Robin Good-Fellow, "thorough brake, thorough briar," reckless of a scratched face
or a torn doublet.

Shakspeare foresaw him, when he framed his fools and jesters. They have all the true Suett
stamp, a loose and shambling gait, a slippery tongue, this last the ready midwife to a without-pain-delivered
jest; in words, light as air, venting truths deep as the centre; with idlest rhymes tagging
conceit when busiest, singing with Lear in the tempest, or Sir Toby at the buttery-hatch.

Jack Bannister and he had the fortune to be more of personal favourites with the town than
any actors before or after. The difference, I take it, was this:--Jack was more beloved for
his sweet, good-natured, moral pretensions. Dicky was more liked for his sweet, good-natured,
no pretensions at all. Your whole conscience stirred with Bannister's performance of Walter
in the Children in the Wood--but Dicky seemed like a thing, as Shakspeare says of Love, too
young to know what conscience is. He put us into Vesta's days. Evil fled before him--not as
from Jack, as from an antagonist,--but because it could not touch him, any more than a cannon-ball
a fly. He was delivered from the burthen of that death; and, when Death came himself, not in
metaphor, to fetch Dicky, it is recorded of him by Robert Palmer, who kindly watched his exit,
that he received the last stroke, neither varying his accustomed tranquillity, nor tune, with
the simple exclamation, worthy to have been recorded in his epitaph--O La! O La! Bobby!

The elder Palmer (of stage-treading celebrity) commonly played Sir Toby in those days; but
there is a solidity of wit in the jests of that half-Falstaff which he did not quite fill out.
He was as much too showy as Moody (who sometimes took the part) was dry and sottish. In sock
or buskin there was an air of swaggering gentility about Jack Palmer. He was a gentleman with
a slight infusion of the footman. His brother Bob (of recenter memory) who was his shadow in
every thing while he lived, and dwindled into less than a shadow afterwards--was a gentleman
with a little stronger infusion of the latter ingredient; that was all. It is amazing how a
little of the more or less makes a difference in these things. When you saw Bobby in the Duke's
Servant,[3] you said, what a pity such a pretty fellow was only a servant. When you saw Jack
figuring in Captain Absolute, you thought you could trace his promotion to some lady of quality
who fancied the handsome fellow in his topknot, and had bought him a commission. Therefore
Jack in Dick Amlet was insuperable.

Jack had two voices,--both plausible, hypocritical, and insinuating; but his secondary or supplemental
voice still more decisively histrionic than his common one. It was reserved for the spectator;
and the dramatis personas were supposed to know nothing at all about it. The lies of young
Wilding, and the sentiments in Joseph Surface, were thus marked out in a sort of italics to
the audience. This secret correspondence with the company before the curtain (which is the
bane and death of tragedy) has an extremely happy effect in some kinds of comedy, in the more
highly artificial comedy of Congreve or of Sheridan especially, where the absolute sense of
reality (so indispensable to scenes of interest) is not required, or would rather interfere
to diminish your pleasure. The fact is, you do not believe in such characters as Surface--the
villain of artificial comedy--even while you read or see them. If you did, they would shock
and not divert you. When Ben, in Love for Love, returns from sea, the following exquisite dialogue
occurs at his first meeting with his father--

Sir Sampson. Thou hast been many a weary league, Ben, since I saw thee.

Ben. Ey, ey, been! Been far enough, an that be all.--Well, father, and how do all at home?
how does brother Dick, and brother Val?

Sir Sampson. Dick! body o' me, Dick has been dead these two years. I writ you word when you
were at Leghorn.

Ben. Mess, that's true; Marry, I had forgot. Dick's dead, as you say--Well, and how?--I have
a many questions to ask you--

Here is an instance of insensibility which in real life would be revolting, or rather in real
life could not have co-existed with the warm-hearted temperament of the character. But when
you read it in the spirit with which such playful selections and specious combinations rather
than strict metaphrases of nature should be taken, or when you saw Bannister play it, it neither
did, nor does wound the moral sense at all. We never think the worse of Ben for it, or feel
it as a stain upon his character. But when an actor comes, and instead of the delightful phantom--the
creature dear to half-belief--which Bannister exhibited--displays before our eyes a downright
concretion of a Wapping sailor--a jolly warm-hearted Jack Tar--and nothing else--when instead
of investing it with a delicious confusedness of the head, and a veering undirected goodness
of purpose--he gives to it a downright daylight understanding, and a full consciousness of
its actions; thrusting forward the sensibilities of the character with a pretence as if it
stood upon nothing else, and was to be judged by them alone--we feel the discord of the thing;
the scene is disturbed; a real man has got in among the dramatis personæ, and puts them out.
We want the sailor turned out. We feel that his true place is not behind the curtain but in
the first or second gallery. I should judge him to have been a man of wit. I know one instance
of an impromptu which no length of study could have bettered. My merry friend, Jem White, had
seen him one evening in Aguecheek, and recognising Dodd the next day in Fleet Street, was irresistibly
impelled to take off his hat and salute him as the identical Knight of the preceding evening
with a "Save you, Sir Andrew."

ON THE ACTING OF MUNDEN

Not many nights ago I had come home from seeing this extraordinary performer in Cockletop;
and when I retired to my pillow, his whimsical image still stuck by me, in a manner as to threaten
sleep. In vain I tried to divest myself of it, by conjuring up the most opposite associations.
I resolved to be serious. I raised up the gravest topics of life; private misery, public calamity.
All would not do.

  --There the antic sate
  Mocking our state--

his queer visnomy--his bewildering costume--all the strange things which he had raked together--his
serpentine rod, swagging about in his pocket--Cleopatra's tear, and the rest of his relics--O'Keefe's
wild farce, and his wilder commentary--till the passion of laughter, like grief in excess,
relieved itself by its own weight, inviting the sleep which in the first instance it had driven
away.

But I was not to escape so easily. No sooner did I fall into slumbers, than the same image,
only more perplexing, assailed me in the shape of dreams. Not one Munden, but five hundred,
were dancing before me, like the faces which, whether you will or no, come when you have been
taking opium--all the strange combinations, which this strangest of all strange mortals ever
shot his proper countenance into, from the day he came commissioned to dry up the tears of
the town for the loss of the now almost forgotten Edwin. O for the power of the pencil to have
fixed them when I awoke! A season or two since there was exhibited a Hogarth gallery. I do
not see why there should not be a Munden gallery. In richness and variety the latter would
not fall far short of the former.

There is one face of Farley, one face of Knight, one (but what a one it is!) of Liston; but
Munden has none that you can properly pin down, and call his. When you think he has exhausted
his battery of looks, in unaccountable warfare with your gravity, suddenly he sprouts out an
entirely new set of features, like Hydra. He is not one, but legion. Not so much a comedian,
as a company. If his name could be multiplied like his countenance, it might fill a play-bill.
He, and he alone, literally makes faces: applied to any other person, the phrase is a mere
figure, denoting certain modifications of the human countenance. Out of some invisible wardrobe
he dips for faces, as his friend Suett used for wigs, and fetches them out as easily. I should
not be surprised to see him some day put out the head of a river horse; or come forth a pewitt,
or lapwing, some feathered metamorphosis. I have seen some faint approaches to this sort of
excellence in other players. But in the grand grotesque of farce, Munden stands out as single
and unaccompanied as Hogarth. Hogarth, strange to tell, had no followers. The school of Munden
began, and must end with himself.

Can any man wonder, like him? can any man see ghosts, like him? or fight with his own shadow--"SESSA"--as
he does in that strangely-neglected thing, the Cobbler of Preston--where his alternations from
the Cobbler to the Magnifico, and from the Magnifico to the Cobbler, keep the brain of the
spectator in as wild a ferment, as if some Arabian Night were being acted before him. Who like
him can throw, or ever attempted to throw, a preternatural interest over the commonest daily-life
objects? A table, or a joint stool, in his conception, rises into a dignity equivalent to Cassiopeia's
chair. It is invested with constellatory importance. You could not speak of it with more deference,
if it were mounted into the firmament. A beggar in the hands of Michael Angelo, says Fuseli,
rose the Patriarch of Poverty. So the gusto of Munden antiquates and ennobles what it touches.
His pots and his ladles are as grand and primal as the seething-pots and hooks seen in old
prophetic vision. A tub of butter, contemplated by him, amounts to a Platonic idea. He understands
a leg of mutton in its quiddity. He stands wondering, amid the common-place materials of life,
like primæval man with the sun and stars about him.

THE LAST ESSAYS OF ELIA

(From the 1st Edition, 1833)

PREFACE

BY A FRIEND OF THE LATE ELIA

This poor gentleman, who for some months past had been in a declining way, hath at length paid
his final tribute to nature.

To say truth, it is time he were gone.

I am now at liberty to confess, that much which I have heard objected to my late friend's writings
was well-founded. Crude they are, I grant you--a sort of unlicked, incondite things--villainously
pranked in an affected array of antique modes and phrases. They had not been his, if they had
been other than such; and better it is, that a writer should be natural in a self-pleasing
quaintness, than to affect a naturalness (so called) that should be strange to him. Egotistical
they have been pronounced by some who did not know, that what he tells us, as of himself, was
often true only (historically) of another; as in a former Essay (to save many instances)--where
under the first person (his favourite figure) he shadows forth the forlorn estate of a country-boy
placed at a London school, far from his friends and connections--in direct opposition to his
own early history. If it be egotism to imply and twine with his own identity the griefs and
affections of another--making himself many, or reducing many unto himself--then is the skilful
novelist, who all along brings in his hero, or heroine, speaking of themselves, the greatest
egotist of all; who yet has never, therefore, been accused of that narrowness. And how shall
the intenser dramatist escape being faulty, who doubtless, under cover of passion uttered by
another, oftentimes gives blameless vent to his most inward feelings, and expresses his own
story modestly?

My late friend was in many respects a singular character. Those who did not like him, hated
him; and some, who once liked him, afterwards became his bitterest haters. The truth is, he
gave himself too little concern what he uttered, and in whose presence. He observed neither
time nor place, and would e'en out with what came uppermost. With the severe religionist he
would pass for a free-thinker; while the other faction set him down for a bigot, or persuaded
themselves that he belied his sentiments. Few understood him; and I am not certain that at
all times he quite understood himself. He too much affected that dangerous figure--irony. He
sowed doubtful speeches, and reaped plain, unequivocal hatred.--He would interrupt the gravest
discussion with some light jest; and yet, perhaps, not quite irrelevant in ears that could
understand it. Your long and much talkers hated him. The informal habit of his mind, joined
to an inveterate impediment of speech, forbade him to be an orator; and he seemed determined
that, no one else should play that part when he was present. He was petit and ordinary in his
person and appearance. I have seen him sometimes in what is called good company, but where
he has been a stranger, sit silent, and be suspected for an odd fellow; till some unlucky occasion
provoking it, he would stutter out some senseless pun (not altogether senseless perhaps, if
rightly taken), which has stamped his character for the evening. It was hit or miss with him;
but nine times out of ten, he contrived by this device to send away a whole company his enemies.
His conceptions rose kindlier than his utterance, and his happiest impromptus had the appearance
of effort. He has been accused of trying to be witty, when in truth he was but struggling to
give his poor thoughts articulation. To my knowledge this was a mistake. The burrs stuck to
him--but they were gbod and loving burrs for all that. He never greatly cared for the society
of what are called good people. If any of these were scandalised (and offences were sure to
arise), he could not help it. When he has been remonstrated with for not making more concessions
to the feelings of good people, he would retort by asking, what one point did these good people
ever concede to him? He was temperate in his meals and diversions, but always kept a little
on this side of abstemiousness. Only in the use of the Indian weed he might be thought a little
excessive. He took it, he would say, as a solvent of speech. Marry--as the friendly vapour
ascended, how his prattle would curl up sometimes with it! the ligaments, which tongue-tied
him, were loosened, and the stammerer proceeded a statist!

I do not know whether I ought to bemoan or rejoice that my old friend is departed. His jests
were beginning to grow obsolete, and his stories to be found out. He felt the approaches of
age; and while he pretended to cling to life, you saw how slender were the ties left to bind
him. Discoursing with him latterly on this subject, he expressed himself with a pettishness,
which I thought unworthy of him. In our walks about his suburban retreat (as he called it)
at Shacklewell, some children belonging to a school of industry had met us, and bowed and curtseyed,
as he thought, in an especial manner to him. "They take me for a visiting governor," he muttered
earnestly. He had a horror, which he carried to a foible, of looking like anything important
and parochial. He thought that he approached nearer to that stamp daily.. He had a general
aversion from being treated like a grave or respectable character, and kept a wary eye upon
the advances of age that should so entitle him. He herded always, while it was possible, with
people younger than himself. He did not conform to the march of time, but was dragged along
in the procession. His manners lagged behind his years. He was too much of the boy-man. The
toga virilis never sate gracefully on his shoulders. The impressions of infancy had burnt into
him, and he resented the impertinence of manhood. These were weaknesses; but such as they were,
they are a key to explicate some of his writings.

Journeying northward lately, I could not resist going some few miles out of my road to look
upon the remains of an old great house with which I had been impressed in this way in infancy.
I was apprised that the owner of it had lately pulled it down; still I had a vague notion that
it could not all have perished, that so much solidity with magnificence could not have been
crushed all at once into the mere dust and rubbish which I found it.

The work of ruin had proceeded with a swift hand indeed, and the demolition of a few weeks
had reduced it to--an antiquity.

I was astonished at the indistinction of everything. Where had stood the great gates? What
bounded the court-yard? Whereabout did the out-houses commence? a few bricks only lay as representatives
of that which was so stately and so spacious.

Death does not shrink up his human victim at this rate. The burnt ashes of a man weigh more
in their proportion.

Why, every plank and pannel of that house for me had magic in it. The tapestried bed-rooms--tapestry
so much better than painting--not adorning merely, but peopling the wainscots--at which childhood
ever and anon would steal a look, shifting its coverlid (replaced as quickly) to exercise its
tender courage in a momentary eye-encounter with those stern bright visages, staring reciprocally--all
Ovid on the walls, in colours vivider than his descriptions. Actæon in mid sprout, with the
unappeasable prudery of Diana; and the still more provoking, and almost culinary coolness of
Dan Phoebus, eel-fashion, deliberately divesting of Marsyas.

Then, that haunted room--in which old Mrs. Battle died--whereinto I have crept, but always
in the day-time, with a passion of fear; and a sneaking curiosity, terror-tainted, to hold
communication with the past.--How shall they build it up again?

It was an old deserted place, yet not so long deserted but that traces of the splendour of
past inmates were everywhere apparent. Its furniture was still standing--even to the tarnished
gilt leather battledores, and crumbling feathers of shuttlecocks in the nursery, which told
that children had once played there. But I was a lonely child, and had the range at will of
every apartment, knew every nook and corner, wondered and worshipped everywhere.

The solitude of childhood is not so much the mother of thought, as it is the feeder of love,
and silence, and admiration, So strange a passion for the place possessed me in those years,
that, though there lay--I shame to say how few roods distant from the mansion--half hid by
trees, what I judged some romantic lake, such was the spell which bound me to the house, and
such my carefulness not to pass its strict and proper precincts, that the idle waters lay unexplored
for me; and not till late in life, curiosity prevailing over elder devotion, I found, to my
astonishment, a pretty brawling brook had been the Lacus Incognitus of my infancy. Variegated
views, extensive prospects--and those at no great distance from the house--I was told of such--what
were they to me, being out of the boundaries of my Eden?--So far from a wish to roam, I would
have drawn, methought, still closer the fences of my chosen prison; and have been hemmed in
by a yet securer cincture of those excluding garden walls.

I was here as in a lonely temple. Snug firesides--the low-built roof--parlours ten feet by
ten--frugal boards, and all the homeliness of home--these were the condition of my birth--the
wholesome soil which I was planted in. Yet, without impeachment to their tenderest lessons,
I am not sorry to have had glances of something beyond; and to have taken, if but a peep, in
childhood, at the contrasting accidents of a great fortune.

To have the feeling of gentility, it is not necessary to have been born gentle. The pride of
ancestry may be had on cheaper terms than to be obliged to an importunate race of ancestors;
and the coatless antiquary in his unemblazoned cell, revolving the long line of a Mowbray's
or De Clifford's pedigree, at those sounding names may warm himself into as gay a vanity as
those who do inherit them. The claims of birth are ideal merely, and what herald shall go about
to strip me of an idea? Is it trenchant to their swords? can it be hacked off as a spur can?
or torn away like a tarnished garter?

What, else, were the families of the great to us? what pleasure should we take in their tedious
genealogies, or their capitulatory brass monuments? What to us the uninterrupted current of
their bloods, if our own did not answer within us to a cognate and correspondent elevation?

Or wherefore, else, O tattered and diminished 'Scutcheon that hung upon the time-worn walls
of thy princely stairs, BLAKESMOOR! have I in childhood so oft stood poring upon thy mystic
characters--thy emblematic supporters, with their prophetic "Resurgam"--till, every dreg of
peasantry purging off, I received into myself Very Gentility? Thou wert first in my morning
eyes; and of nights, hast detained my steps from bedward, till it was but a step from gazing
at thee to dreaming on thee.

This is the only true gentry by adoption; the veritable change of blood, and not, as empirics
have fabled, by transfusion.

Who it was by dying that had earned the splendid trophy, I know not, I inquired not; but its
fading rags, and colours cobweb-stained, told that its subject was of two centuries back.

And what if my ancestor at that date was some Damoetas--feeding flocks, not his own, upon the
hills of Lincoln--did I in less earnest vindicate to myself the family trappings of this once
proud Ægon?--repaying by a backward triumph the insults he might possibly have heaped in his
life-time upon my poor pastoral progenitor.

If it were presumption so to speculate, the present owners of the mansion had least reason
to complain. They had long forsaken the old house of their fathers for a newer trifle; and
I was left to appropriate to myself what images I could pick up, to raise my fancy, or to soothe
my vanity.

I was the true descendant of those old W----s; and not the present family of that name, who
had fled the old waste places.

Mine was that gallery of good old family portraits, which as I have gone over, giving them
in fancy my own family name, one--and then another--would seem to smile, reaching forward from
the canvas, to recognise the new relationship; while the rest looked grave, as it seemed, at
the vacancy in their dwelling, and thoughts of fled posterity. There they stood in the coldness
of death, yet freshness of immortality.

Mine too, thy lofty Justice Hall, with its one chair of authority, high-backed and wickered,
once the terror of luckless poacher, or self-forgetful maiden--so common since, that bats have
roosted in it.

Mine too--whose else?--thy costly fruit-garden, with its sun-baked southern wall; the ampler
pleasure-garden, rising backwards from the house in triple terraces, with flower-pots now of
palest lead, save that a speck here and there, saved from the elements, bespeak their pristine
state to have been gilt and glittering; the verdant quarters backwarder still; and, stretching
still beyond, in old formality, thy firry wilderness, the haunt of the squirrel, and the day-long
murmuring woodpigeon, with that antique image in the centre, God or Goddess I wist not; but
child of Athens or old Rome paid never a sincerer worship to Pan or to Sylvanus in their native
groves, than I to that fragmental mystery.

Was it for this, that I kissed my childish hands too fervently in your idol worship, walks
and windings of BLAKESMOOR! for this, or what sin of mine, has the plough passed over your
pleasant places? I sometimes think that as men, when they die, do not die all, so of their
extinguished habitations there may be a hope--a germ to be revivified.

He is known by his knock. Your heart telleth you "That is Mr. ----." A rap, between familiarity
and respect; that demands, and, at the same time, seems to despair of, entertainment. He entereth
smiling, and--embarrassed. He holdeth out his hand to you to shake, and--draweth it back again.
He casually looketh in about dinner time--when the table is full. He offereth to go away, seeing
you have company--but is induced to stay. He filleth a chair, and your visitor's two children
are accommodated at a side table. He never cometh upon open days, when your wife says with
some complacency, "My dear, perhaps Mr. ---- will drop in to-day." He remembereth birth-days--and
professeth he is fortunate to have stumbled upon one. He declareth against fish, the turbot
being small--yet suffereth himself to be importuned into a slice against his first resolution.
He sticketh by the port--yet will be prevailed upon to empty the remainder glass of claret,
if a stranger press it upon him. He is a puzzle to the servants, who are fearful of being too
obsequious, or not civil enough, to him. The guests think "they have seen him before." Every
one speculateth upon his condition; and the most part take him to be--a tide-waiter. He calleth
you by your Christian name, to imply that his other is the same with your own. He is too familiar
by half, yet you wish he had less diffidence. With half the familiarity he might pass for a
casual dependent; with more boldness he would be in no danger of being taken for what he is.
He is too humble for a friend, yet taketh on him more state than befits a client. He is a worse
guest than a country tenant, inasmuch as he bringeth up no rent--yet 'tis odds, from his garb
and demeanour, that your guests take him for one. He is asked to make one at the whist table;
refuseth on the score of poverty, and--resents being left out. When the company break up, he
proffereth to go for a coach--and lets the servant go. He recollects your grandfather; and
will thrust in some mean, and quite unimportant anecdote of--the family. He knew it when it
was not quite so flourishing as "he is blest in seeing it now." He reviveth past situations,
to institute what he calleth--favourable comparisons. With a reflecting sort of congratulation,
he will inquire the price of your furniture; and insults you with a special commendation of
your window-curtains. He is of opinion that the urn is the more elegant shape, but, after all,
there was something more comfortable about the old tea-kettle--which you must remember. He
dare say you must find a great convenience in having a carriage of your own, and appealeth
to your lady if it is not so. Inquireth if you have had your arms done on vellum yet; and did
not know till lately, that such-and-such had been the crest of the family. His memory is unseasonable;
his compliments perverse; his talk a trouble; his stay pertinacious; and when he goeth away,
you dismiss his chair into a corner, as precipitately as possible, and feel fairly rid of two
nuisances.

There is a worse evil under the sun, and that is--a female Poor Relation. You may do something
with the other; you may pass him off tolerably well; but your indigent she-relative is hopeless.
"He is an old humourist," you may say, "and affects to go threadbare. His circumstances are
better than folks would take them to be. You are fond of having a Character at your table,
and truly he is one." But in the indications of female poverty there can be no disguise. No
woman dresses below herself from caprice. The truth must out without shuffling. "She is plainly
related to the L----s; or what does she at their house?" She is, in all probability, your wife's
cousin. Nine times out of ten, at least, this is the case. Her garb is something between a
gentlewoman and a beggar, yet the former evidently predominates. She is most provokingly humble,
and ostentatiously sensible to her inferiority. He may require to be repressed sometimes--aliquando
sufflaminandus erat--but there is no raising her. You send her soup at dinner, and she begs
to be helped--after the gentlemen. Mr. ---- requests the honour of taking wine with her; she
hesitates between Port and Madeira, and chooses the former--because he does. She calls the
servant Sir; and insists on not troubling him to hold her plate. The housekeeper patronizes
her. The children's governess takes upon her to correct her, when she has mistaken the piano
for a harpsichord.

