"Why do all the gentlemen take off their hats to me and not to my sister Feodora?" the little
girl is said to have asked wonderingly on her return from a drive in the park, referring to
her elder half-sister, who became Princess of Hohenlohe, between whom and the questioner there
always existed the strong sweet affection of true sisters. Perhaps the little lady felt indignant
as well as mystified at the strange preference thus given to her, in spite of her sister's
superiority in age and wisdom. We do not know what reply was made to this puzzling inquiry,
though it would have been easy enough to say that the little Princess was the daughter of an
English royal Duke, therefore an English Princess, and the big Princess was German on both
sides of the house, while these were English gentlemen who had saluted their young countrywoman.
We all know from the best authority that Sir Walter Scott was wrong when he fancied some bird
of the air must have conveyed the important secret to the little fair-haired maiden to whom
he was presented in 1828. The mystery was not disclosed for years to come.

The child, though brought up in retirement, was by no means secluded from observation, or deprived
of the change and variety so advantageous to human growth and development. From her babyhood
in the sad visit to Sidmouth in 1820, and from 1821, when she was at that pretentious combination
of fantasticalness and gorgeousness, the Pavilion, Brighton, she was carried every year, like
any other well-cared-for child, either to the seaside or to some other invigorating region,
so that she became betimes acquainted with different aspects of sea and shore in her island.
Ramsgate was a favourite resort of the Duchess's. The little Thanet watering-place, with its
white chalk cliffs, its inland basin of a harbour, its upper and lower town, connected by "Jacob's
Ladder," its pure air and sparkling water, with only a tiny fringe of bathing-machines, was
in its blooming time of fresh rural peace and beauty when it was the cradle by the sea of the
little Princess.

When she was five she was at Claremont, making music and motion in the quiet house with her
gleeful laughter and pattering feet, so happy in being with her uncle that she could look back
on this visit as the brightest of her early holidays. "This place," the Queen wrote to the
King of the Belgians long afterwards, "has a peculiar charm for us both, and to me it brings
back recollections of the happiest days of my otherwise dull childhood,--when I experienced
such kindness from you, dearest uncle, kindness which has ever since continued.... Victoria
plays with my old bricks, and I see her running and jumping in the flower-garden, as old, though
I feel still little, Victoria of former days used to do." In the autumn of 1825 the Queen's
grandmother, the Dowager Duchess of Coburg, visited England, and the whole family were together
at Claremont.

In 1826, "the warm summer," when the Princess was seven years of age, she was invited to Windsor
to see another uncle, George IV. That was a more formidable ordeal, but her innocent frank
brightness carried her through it successfully. It is not easy for many men to contemplate
with satisfaction their heirs, when those heirs are no offspring of theirs. It must have been
doubly difficult for the King to welcome the little girl who had replaced his daughter, the
child of his wronged brother and of a Princess whom King George persistently slighted and deprived
of her due. But we are told his Majesty was delighted with his little niece's liveliness and
intelligence.

In the following year, 1827, the Duke of York died, and the Princess, was a step nearer to
the throne, but she did not know it. So far from being reared in an atmosphere of self-indulgence,
the invaluable lesson was early taught to her that if she were to be honourable and independent
in any rank, she must not buy what she could not pay for; if she were to be a good woman she
must learn to deny herself. An incident in illustration, which made a small stir in its locality
at the time, is often quoted. The Duchess and her daughter were at Tunbridge Wells, dwelling
in the neighbourhood of Sir Philip Sidney's Penshurst, retracing the vanished glories of the
Pantiles, and conferring on the old pump-woman the never-to-be-forgotten honour of being permitted
to present a glass of water from the marble basin to the Princess. The little girl made purchases
at the bazaar, buying presents, like any other young visitor, for her absent friends, when
she found her money all spent, and at the same time saw a box which would suit an absent cousin.
"The shop-people of course placed the box with the other purchases, but the little lady's governess
admonished them by saying, 'No. You see the Princess has not got the money; therefore, of course,
she cannot buy the box.'" This being perceived, the next offer was to lay by the box till it
could be purchased, and the answer was, "Oh, well, if you will be so good as to do that." On
quarter-day, before seven in the morning, the Princess appeared on her donkey to claim her
purchase.

In the reverence, peace, and love of her pure, refined, if saddened home, everything went well
with Princess Victoria, of whom we can only tell that we know the old brick palace where she
dwelt, the playground that was hers, the walks she must have taken. We have sat in the later
chapel where she said her prayers, a little consecrated room with high pews shutting in the
worshippers, a royal gallery, open this time, and an elderly gentleman speaking with a measured,
melodious voice. We can guess with tolerable certainty what was the Princess's child-world
of books, though from the circumstance that in the light of the future she was made to learn
more than was usual then for English girls of the highest rank, she had less time than her
companions for reading books which were not study, but the most charming blending of instruction
and amusement. That was still the age of Mrs. Barbauld and Miss Edgeworth. "Evenings at Home,"
"Harry and Lucy," and "Frank and Rosamond," were in every well-conducted school-room. All little
girls read with prickings of tender consciences about the lady with the bent bonnet and the
scar on her hand, and came under the fascination of the "Purple Jar." A few years later, Harriet
Martineau's bristling independence did not prevent her from feeling gratified by the persuasion
that the young Princess was reading through her tales on political economy, and that Princess
Victoria's favourite character was Ella of the far north.

In the Princess's Roman history one day she came to the passage where the noble matron, Cornelia,
in answer to a question as to her precious things, pointed to her sons, and declared, "These
are my jewels." "Why," cried the ready-witted little pupil, with a twinkle in her blue eyes,
"they must have been cornelians."

When the Princess's lessons took the form of later English history, she was on the very spot
for the study. Did her teacher tell her, we wonder, the pretty story of "Bucky," who interrupted
grave, saturnine King William at his statescraft in one of yonder rooms? How the small dauntless
applicant wiled his father's master, great Louis's rival, into playing at horses in the corridor?
Or that sadder story of another less fortunate boy, poor heavy-headed William of Gloucester?
Tutors crammed and doctors shook him up, with the best intentions, in vain. In his happier
moments he drilled his regiment of little soldiers on that Palace Green before his uncle, King
William.

Was the childish passion for exploring old garrets and lumber-rooms excited in this royal little
woman by the narrative of the wonderful discovery which Queen Caroline had made in a forgotten
bureau in this very palace? Did the little Princess roam about too, in her privileged moments,
with a grand vision of finding more and greater art-treasures, other drawings by Holbein or
Vandyke, fresh cartoons by Raphael?

All the more valuable paintings had been removed long ago to Windsor, but many curious pictures
still remained on the walls of presence chambers and galleries, kings' and queens' great dining-rooms
and drawing-rooms, staircases and closets. Did the pictures serve as illustrations to the history
lessons? Was the inspection made the recreation of rainy days, when the great suites of State-rooms
in which Courts were no longer held or banquets celebrated, but which still echoed with the
remembered tread of kings' and courtiers' feet, must have appeared doubly deserted and forlorn?

What was known as the King's Great Drawing-room was not far from the Duchess of Kent's rooms,
and was, in fact, put at her disposal in its dismantled, ghostly condition. Among its pictures--freely
attributed to many schools and masters--including several battle-pieces and many portraits,
there were three representations of English palaces: old Greenwich, where Elizabeth was born;
old Hampton, dear to William and Mary; and Windsor, the Windsor of George III. and Queen Charlotte,
the Princess's grandfather and grandmother. In the next room, amidst classic and scriptural
subjects, and endless examples of "ladies with ruffs," "heads in turbans," &c., there were
occasionally family portraits--the old King and Queen more than once; William, Duke of Gloucester;
the Queen of Wurtemberg as the girl-Princess Royal, with a dog. (She died in Wurtemberg about
this time, 1828. She had quitted England on her marriage in 1797, and in the thirty-one years
of her married life only once came back, as an aging and ailing woman. She proved a good wife
and stepmother.) A youthful family group of an earlier generation was sure to attract a child--George
III. and his brother, Edward, Duke of York, when young, shooting at a target, the Duke of Gloucester
in petticoats, Princess Augusta (Duchess of Brunswick, and mother of Caroline, Princess of
Wales) nursing the Duke of Cumberland, and Princess Louisa sitting in a chaise drawn by a favourite
dog, the scene in Kew Gardens, painted in 1746. Queen Elizabeth was there as a child aged seven,
A.D. 1540--three-quarters, with a feather-fan in her hand. Did the guide of the little unconscious
Princess pause inadvertently, with a little catch of the breath, by words arrested on the tip
of the tongue, before that picture? And was he or she inevitably arrested again before another
picture of Queen Elizabeth in her prime, returning from her palace, wearing her crown and holding
the sceptre and the globe; Juno, Pallas, and Venus flying before her, Juno dropping her sceptre,
Venus her roses, and the little boy Cupid flinging away his bow and arrows, and clinging in
discomfiture to his mother because good Queen Bess had conquered all the three in power, wisdom,
and beauty? We know the Princess must have loved to look at the pictures. More curious than
beautiful as they were, they may have been sufficient to foster in her that love of art which
has been the delight of the Queen's maturer years.

English princesses, even though they were not queens in perspective, were not so plentiful
in Queen Victoria's young days as to leave any doubt of their hands and hearts proving in great
request when the proper time came. Therefore there was no necessity to hold before the little
girl, as an incentive to good penmanship, the example of her excellent grandmother, Queen Charlotte,
who wrote so fair a letter, expressed with such correctness and judiciousness, at the early
age of fifteen, that when the said letter fell, by an extraordinary train of circumstances,
into the hands of young King George, he determined there and then to make that painstaking
and sensible Princess, and no other, a happy wife and great Queen. There was no strict need
for the story, and yet as a gentle stimulant it may have been administered.

Queen Victoria was educated, as far as possible, in the simple habits and familiarity with
nature which belongs to the best and happiest training of any child, whatever her rank. There
is a pleasant picture in Knight's "Passages of a Working Life": "I delighted to walk in Kensington
Gardens in the early summer, on my way to town.... In such a season, when the sun was scarcely
high enough to have dried up the dews of Kensington's green alleys, as I passed along the broad
central walk I saw a group on the lawn before the palace, which, to my mind, was a vision of
exquisite loveliness. The Duchess of Kent and her daughter, whose years then numbered nine,
are breakfasting in the open air, a single page attending on them at a respectful distance,
the mother looking on with eyes of love, while the fair, soft, English face is bright with
smiles. The world of fashion is not yet astir. Clerks and mechanics passing onwards to their
occupations are few, and they exhibit nothing of vulgar curiosity."

We have another charming description, by Leigh Hunt, of a glimpse which he had of Princess
Victoria in these gardens: "We remember well the peculiar kind of personal pleasure which it
gave us to see the future Queen, the first time we ever did see her, coming up a cross-path
from the Bayswater Gate, with a girl of her own age by her side, whose hand she was holding
as if she loved her. It brought to our minds the warmth of our own juvenile friendships, and
made us fancy that she loved everything else that we had loved in like measure--books, trees,
verses, Arabian tales, and the good mother who had helped to make her so affectionate. A magnificent
footman in scarlet came behind her, with the splendidest pair of calves, in white stockings,
that we ever beheld. He looked somehow like a gigantic fairy, personating for his little lady's
sake the grandest kind of footman he could think of; and his calves he seemed to have made
out of a couple of the biggest chaise-lamps in the possession of the godmother of Cinderella.
With or without her big footman, the little Princess could have rambled safely in the grounds
which her predecessors had made for her, could have fed the ducks which swam in the round pond
before her palace windows, could have drunk from the curious little mineral well, where, in
Miss Thackeray's 'Old Kensington,' Frank Raban met Dolly Vanburgh, or peeped out of the little
side gate where the same Dolly came face to face with the culprits George and Rhoda. The future
owner of all could have easily strayed down the alleys among the Dutch elms which King William
brought, perhaps saplings, from the Boomjees, as far as the oak that tradition says King Charles
set in the form of an acorn taken from his leafy refuge at Boscobel."

The Duke of Kent had brought an old soldier-servant, called Stillman, and established him,
with his wife and family, in a cottage in one of the Kensington lanes. It is said the Duke
had recommended this former retainer to the care of the Duchess, and that she and her daughter
were in the habit of visiting and caring for the family, in which there were a sickly little
boy and girl.

An event happened in 1828 to the household in Kensington Palace which was of importance to
all. It was a joyful event, and the preparations for the royal wedding, with the gala in which
the preliminaries culminated, must have formed an era in the quiet young life into which a
startling announcement and its fulfilment had broken, filling the hours of the short winter
days with wonder, admiration, and interest.

Yet all the pleasant stir and excitement; the new member of the family prominent for a brief
space; the gifts, the trousseau, the wedding-cake, the wedding guests, were but the deceptive
herald of change and loss to the family, whose members were so few that each became deeply
precious. The closely united circle was to be broken, and a dear face permanently withdrawn
from the group. The Duchess of Kent's elder daughter, Princess Victoria's only sister, was
about to marry. It was the most natural and the happiest course, above all when the Princess
Feodora wedded worthily--how worthily let the subsequent testimony of the Queen and the Prince
Consort prove. It was given at the time of the Prince of Hohenlohe's death, thirty-two years
afterwards, in 1860.

The Queen wrote to her own and her sister's uncle, the King of the Belgians, in reference to
the Prince of Hohenlohe: "A better, more thoroughly straightforward, upright, and excellent
man, with a more unblemished character, or a more really devoted and faithful husband, never
existed."

The Prince Consort's opinion of his brother-in-law is to be found in a letter to the Princess
William of Prussia: "Poor Ernest Hohenlohe is a great loss. Though he was not a man of great
powers of mind, capable of taking comprehensive views of the world, still he was a great character
--that is to say, a thoroughly good, noble, spotless, and honourable man, which in these days
forms a better title to be recognised as great than do craftiness, Machiavellism, and grasping
ambition."

At the time of his marriage the Prince of Hohenlohe was in the prime of manhood, thirty-two
years of age.

But the marriage meant the Princess Feodora's return to Germany and her separation from the
other members of her family, with the exception of her brother, brought up in his own country.
The bride, whom we hear of afterwards as a true and tender woman, was then a sweet maiden of
twenty, whose absence must have made a great blank to her mother and sister. Happily for the
latter, she was too young to realise in the agreeable excitement of the moment what a deprivation
remained in store for her. There were eleven years between the sisters. This was enough difference
to mingle a motherly, protecting element with the elder sister's pride and fondness, and to
lead the younger, whose fortunes were so much higher, but who was unaware of the fact, to look
up with affectionate faith and trust to the grown-up companion, in one sense on a level with
the child, in another with so much more knowledge and independence.

It was a German marriage, both bride and bridegroom being German, though the bride had been
nine years--the difference between a child and a woman--in England, and though the event occurred
in an English household. Whether the myrtle was worn for the orange-blossoms, or any of the
other pretty German wedding customs imported, we cannot tell. Anyhow, the ordinary peaceful
simplicity of the palace was replaced by much bustle and grandeur on that February morning,
the modest forerunner of another February morning in another palace, when a young Queen plighted
her troth.

The royal family in England, with two exceptions, were at Kensington Palace to do honour to
the marriage. The absent members were the King and Princess Augusta--the latter of whom was
at Brighton. The company arrived soon after two o'clock, and consisted of the Duke and Duchess
of Clarence, the Duke of Sussex, the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, the Princess Sophia, the
Princess Sophia Matilda of Gloucester, and Prince Leopold.

At three o'clock the party walked in procession to the great saloon adjoining the vestibule,
in which a temporary altar had been fitted up. The bride was given away by the Duke of Clarence.
The ceremony was performed in the simple Lutheran fashion by a simple Lutheran pastor, Dr.
Kuper, "the chaplain of the Royal German Chapel."

Then came the parting, and the quiet palace-home was stiller and shadier than ever, when the
gracious maidenly presence had gone, when the opening rose was plucked from the parent stem,
and only the bud left.

In 1830 George IV. died, and William, Duke of Clarence, succeeded to the throne as King William
IV. That summer was the last of the Princess's ignorance of her prospects; until then not even
the shadow of a throne had been projected across the sunshiny path of the happy girl of eleven.
She was with her mother in one of the fairest scenes in England--Malvern. The little town with
its old Priory among the Worcester hills, looks down on the plain of Worcester, the field of
a great English battle.

A dim recollection of the Duchess and the Princess is still preserved at Malvern--how pleasant
and kind they were to all, how good to the poor; how the future Queen rode on a donkey like
any other young girl at Malvern--like poor Marie Antoinette in the forest glades of Compiegne
and Fontainebleau half a century earlier, when she was only four years older, although already
Dauphiness of France. The shadowy records do not tell us much more; we are left to form our
own conclusions whether the Queen anticipated her later ascents of Scotch and Swiss mountains
by juvenile scrambles amongst the Worcester hills; whether she stood on the top of the Worcester
or Hereford Beacon; or whether these were considered too dangerous and masculine exploits for
a princess of tender years, growing up to inherit a throne? She could hardly fail to enter
the Wytche, the strange natural gap between Worcestershire and Herefordshire, by which, at
one step, the wayfarer leaves wooded England behind, and stands face to face with a pastoral
corner of Wales; or to drive along the mile-long common of Barnard's Green, with the geese,
and the hay-stacks, and the little cottages on either side, and always in front the steep ridge
of hills with the grey Priory where Piers Plowman saw his vision, nestling at their feet; or
to pull the heather and the wild strawberries in Cowleigh Park, from which every vestige of
its great house has departed. She might have been a privileged visitor at Madresfield, where
some say Charles II. slept the night before the battle of Worcester, and where there is a relic
that would better become Kensington, in a quilt which Queen Anne and Duchess Sarah embroidered
together in silks in the days of their fast friendship.

As it was part of the Princess's good education to be enlightened, as far as possible, with
regard to the how and why of arts and manufactures, we make no question she was carried to
Worcester, not only to see the cathedral, but to have the potteries exhibited to her. There
was a great deal for the ingenuous mind of a royal pupil to see, learn, and enjoy in Worcester
and Warwickshire--for she was also at Guy's Cliff and Kenilworth.

It had become clear to the world without that the succession rested with the Duke of Kent's
daughter. Long before, the Duchess of Clarence had written to her sister-in-law in a tender,
generous struggle with her sorrow: "My children are dead, but yours lives, and she is mine
too." As the direct heir to the crown, the Princess Victoria became a person of great importance,
a source of serious consideration alike to the Government and to her future subjects. The result,
in 1830, was a well-deserved if somewhat long-delayed testimony to the merits of the Duchess
of Kent, which must have given honest satisfaction not only at Kensington, but at Claremont--to
whose master the Belgian Revolution was opening up the prospect of a kingdom more stable than
that of Greece, for which Prince Leopold had been mentioned. Away in the Duchess's native Coburg,
too, the congratulations were sincere and hearty.

The English Parliament had not only formally recognised the Princess as the next heir and increased
the Duchess's income to ten thousand a year, so relieving her from some of her difficulties;
it had, with express and flattering reference to the admirable manner in which she had until
then discharged the trust that her husband had confided to her, appointed her Regent in the
event of King William's death while the Princess was still a minor. In this appointment the
Duchess was preferred to the Duke of Cumberland. He had become the next royal Duke in the order
of descent, but had failed to inspire confidence in his countrymen. In fact he was in England
the most uniformly and universally unpopular of all George III.'s sons. There was even a wild
rumour that he was seeking, against right and reason, to form a party which should attempt
to revive the Salic law and aim at setting aside the Princess and placing Prince George of
Cumberland on the throne of England as well as on that of Hanover.

The Princess had reached the age of twelve, and it was judged advisable, after her position
had been thus acknowledged, that she herself should be made acquainted with it. The story--the
authenticity of which is established beyond question--is preserved in a letter from the Queen's
former governess, Baroness Lehzen, which her Majesty has, given to the world.

"I ask your Majesty's leave to cite some remarkable words of your Majesty when only twelve
years old, while the Regency Bill was in progress. I then said to the Duchess of Kent, that
now, for the first time, your Majesty ought to know your place in the succession. Her Royal
Highness agreed with me, and I put the genealogical table into the historical book. When Mr.
Davys (the Queen's instructor, afterwards Bishop of Peterborough) was gone, the Princess Victoria
opened the book again, as usual, and seeing the additional paper, said, 'I never saw that before.'
'It was not thought necessary you should, Princess,' I answered. 'I see I am nearer the throne
than I thought.' 'So it is, madam,' I said. After some moments the Princess answered, 'Now,
many a child would boast, but they don't know the difficulty. There is much splendour, but
there is more responsibility.' The Princess having lifted up the forefinger of her right hand
while she spoke, gave me that little hand, saying, 'I will be good. I understand now why you
urged me so much to learn even Latin. My aunts Augusta and Mary never did; but you told me
Latin is the foundation of English grammar and of all the elegant expressions, and I learned
it as you wished it, but I understand all better now;' and the Princess gave me her hand, repeating,
'I will be good.' I then said, 'But your aunt Adelaide is still young, and may have children,
and of course they would ascend the throne after their father, William IV., and not you, Princess.'
The Princess answered, 'And if it was so, I should never feel disappointed, for I know by the
love aunt Adelaide bears me how fond she is of children.'"

No words can illustrate better what is striking and touching in this episode than those with
which Mrs. Oliphant refers to it in her sketch of the Queen. "It is seldom that an early scene
like this stands out so distinctly in the early story even of a life destined to greatness.
The hush of awe upon the child; the childish application of this great secret to the abstruse
study of Latin, which was not required from the others; the immediate resolution, so simple,
yet containing all the wisest sage could have counselled, or the greatest hero vowed,' I will
be good,' makes a perfect little picture. It is the clearest appearance of the future Queen
in her own person that we get through the soft obscurity of those childish years." The Duchess
of Kent remained far from a rich woman for her station, and the young Princess had been sooner
told of her mother's straitened income than of the great inheritance in store for herself.
She continued to be brought up in unassuming, inexpensive habits.

In February, 1831, when Princess Victoria was twelve, she made her first appearance in state
at "the most magnificent Drawing-room which, had been seen since that which had taken place
on the presentation of Princess Charlotte of Wales upon the occasion of her marriage." The
Drawing-room was held by Queen Adelaide, and it was to do honour to the new Queen no less than
to commemorate the approaching completion of the Princess's twelfth year that the heiress to
the throne was present in a prominent position, an object of the greatest interest to the splendid
company. She came along with the Duchess her mother, attended by an appropriate suite, including
the Duchess of Northumberland, Lady Charlotte St. Maur, Lady Catherine Parkinson, the Hon.
Mrs. Cust, the Baroness Lehzen, and the Princess's father's old friends, General Wetherall
and Captain (now Sir John) Conroy, with his wife, Lady Conroy. The Princess's dress was made,
as the Queen's often was afterwards, entirely of articles manufactured in the United Kingdom.
She wore a frock of English blonde, "simple, modest, and becoming." She stood on the left of
her Majesty on the throne, and "contemplated all that passed with much dignity, but with evident
interest." We are further told, what we can well believe, that she excited general admiration
as well as interest. We can without difficulty call up before us the girlish figure in its
pure, white dress, the soft, open face, the fair hair, the candid blue eyes, the frank lips
slightly apart, showing the white pearly teeth. The intelligent observation, the remarkable
absence of self-consciousness and consequent power of self-control and of thought for others,
which struck all who approached her in the great crisis of her history six years afterwards,
were already conspicuous in the young girl. No doubt it was for her advantage, in consideration
of what lay before her, that while brought up in wholesome privacy, she was at the same time
inured, so far, to appear in public, to bear the brunt of many eyes--some critical, though
for the most part kind--touched by her youth and innocence, by the circumstance that she was
fatherless, and by the crown she must one day wear. She had to learn to conduct herself with
the mingled self-respect and ease which became her station. Impulsiveness, shyness, nervousness,
are more serious defects in kings and queens than in ordinary mortals. To use a homely phrase,
"to have all their wits about them" is very necessary in their case. If in addition they can
have all their hearts--hearts warm and considerate, nobly mindful of their own obligations
and of the claims of others--so much the better for the sovereigns and for all who come under
their influence. A certain amount of familiarity with being the observed of all observers,
with treading alone a conspicuous path demanding great circumspection, was wanted beforehand,
in order that the young head might remain steady in the time of sudden, tremendous elevation.

