THE DUEL BETWEEN FRANCE AND GERMANY

REPRINTED FROM "ADDRESSES ON WAR"

BY CHARLES SUMNER

THE DUEL BETWEEN FRANCE AND GERMANY, WITH ITS LESSON TO CIVILIZATION.

LECTURE IN THE MUSIC HALL, BOSTON, OCTOBER 26, 1870.

"When kings make war,
 No law betwixt two sovereigns can decide,
 But that of arms, where Fortune is the judge,
 Soldiers the lawyers, and the Bar the field."

DEYDEN, Love Triumphant, Act I. Sc. 1.

LECTURE.

MR. PRESIDENT,--I am to speak of the Duel between France and Germany, with its Lesson to Civilization.
In calling the terrible war now waging a Duel, I might content myself with classical authority,
Duellum being a well-known Latin word for War. The historian Livy makes a Roman declare that
affairs are to be settled "by a pure and pious duel"; [Footnote: "Puro pioqne duello."--Historie,
Lib. I. cap. 32.] the dramatist Plautus has a character in one of his plays who obtains great
riches "by the duelling art," [Footnote: "Arte duellica."--Epidicus, Act. III. Sc. iv. 14.]
meaning the art of war; and Horace, the exquisite master of language, hails the age of Augustus
with the Temple of Janus closed and "free from duels," [Footnote: "Vacuum duellis."--Carmina,
Lib, IV. xv. 8.] meaning at peace,--for then only was that famous temple shut.

WAR UNDER THE LAW OF NATIONS A DUEL.

But no classical authority is needed for this designation. War, as conducted under International
Law, between two organized nations, is in all respects a duel, according to the just signification
of this word,--differing from that between two individuals only in the number of combatants.
The variance is of proportion merely, each nation being an individual who appeals to the sword
as Arbiter; and in each case the combat is subject to rules constituting a code by which the
two parties are bound. For long years before civilization prevailed, the code governing the
duel between individuals was as fixed and minute as that which governs the larger duel between
nations, and the duel itself was simply a mode of deciding questions between individuals. In
presenting this comparison I expose myself to criticism only from those who have not considered
this interesting subject in the light of history and of reason. The parallel is complete. Modern
war is the duel of the Dark Ages, magnified, amplified, extended so as to embrace nations;
nor is it any less a duel because the combat is quickened and sustained by the energies of
self-defence, or because, when a champion falls and lies on the ground, he is brutally treated.
An authentic instance illustrates such a duel; and I bring before you the very pink of chivalry,
the Chevalier Bayard, "the knight without fear and without reproach," who, after combat in
a chosen field, succeeded by a feint in driving his weapon four fingers deep into the throat
of his adversary, and then, rolling with him, gasping and struggling, on the ground, thrust
his dagger into the nostrils of the fallen victim, exclaiming, "Surrender, or you are a dead
man!"--a speech which seemed superfluous; for the second cried out, "He is dead already; you
have conquered." Then did Bayard, brightest among the Sons of War, drag his dead enemy from
the field, crying, "Have I done enough?" [Footnote: La tresjoyeuse,  plaisante et recreative
Hystoire, composee par le Loyal Serviteur,  des Faiz, Gestes, Triumphes et Prouesses du Bon
Chevalier  sans Paour et sans Reprouche, le Gentil Seigneur de Bayart:  Petitot, Collection
des Memoires relatifs a l'Histoire de France,  Tom. XV. pp. 241, 242.] Now, because the brave
knight saw fit to do these things, the combat was not changed in original character. It was
a duel at the beginning and at the end. Indeed, the brutality with which it closed was the
natural incident of a duel. A combat once begun opens the way to violence, and the conqueror
too often surrenders to the Evil Spirit, as Bayard in his unworthy barbarism.

In likening war between nations to the duel, I follow not only reason, but authority also.
No better lawyer can be named in the long history of the English bar than John Selden, whose
learning was equalled only by his large intelligence. In those conversations which under the
name of "Table-Talk" continue still to instruct,  the wise counsellor, after saying that the
Church allowed  the duel anciently, and that in the public liturgies there were  prayers appointed
for duellists to say, keenly inquires, "But whether is this lawful?" And then he answers, "If
you grant any war lawful, I make no doubt but to convince it." [Footnote: Table- Talk, ed.
Singer, London, 1856, p. 47,--Duel.] Selden regarded the simple duel and the larger war as
governed by the same rule. Of course the exercise of force in the suppression of rebellion,
or in the maintenance of laws, stands on a different principle, being in its nature a constabulary
proceeding, which cannot be confounded with the duel. But my object is not to question the
lawfulness of war; I would simply present an image, enabling you to see the existing war in
its true character.

The duel in its simplest form is between two individuals. In early ages it was known sometimes
as the Judicial Combat, and sometimes as Trial by Battle. Not only points of honor, but titles
to land, grave questions of law, and even the subtilties of theology, were referred to this
arbitrament, [Footnote: Robertson, History of the Reign of Charles V.: View of the Progress
of Society in Europe, Section I. Note XXII.]--just as now kindred issues between nations are
referred to Trial by Battle; and the early rules governing the duel are reproduced in the Laws
of War established by nations to govern the great Trial by Battle. Ascending from the individual
to corporations, guilds, villages, towns, counties, provinces, we find that for a long period
each of these bodies exercised what was called "the Right of War." The history of France and
Germany shows how reluctantly this mode of trial yielded to the forms of reason and order.
France, earlier than Germany, ordained "Trial by Proofs," and eliminated the duel from judicial
proceedings, this important step being followed by the gradual amalgamation of discordant provinces
in the powerful unity of the Nation,----so that Brittany and Normandy, Franche-Comte and Burgundy,
Provence and Dauphiny, Gascony and Languedoc, with the rest, became the United States of France,
or, if you please, France. In Germany the change was slower; and here the duel exhibits its
most curious instances. Not only feudal chiefs, but associations of tradesmen and of domestics
sent defiance to each other, and sometimes to whole cities, on pretences trivial as those which
have been the occasion of defiance from nation to nation. [Footnote: Coxe, History of the House
of Austria. (London, 1820) Ch. XIX., Vol. I. p. 378.] This prevalence of the duel aroused the
Emperor Maximilian, who at the Diet of Worms put forth an ordinance abolishing the right or
liberty of Private War, and instituting a Supreme Tribunal for the determination of controversies
without appeal to the duel, and the whole long list of duellists, whether corporate or individual,
including nobles, bakers, shoe-blacks, and cooks, was brought under its pacific rule. Unhappily
the beneficent reform stopped half-way, and here Germany was less fortunate than France. The
great provinces were left in the enjoyment of a barbarous independence, with the "right" to
fight each other. The duel continued their established arbiter, until at last, in 1815, by
the Act of Union constituting the Confederation or United States of Germany, each sovereignty
gave up the right of war with its confederates, setting an example to the larger nations. The
terms of this important stipulation, marking a stage in German unity, were as follows:--

"The members of the Confederation further bind themselves under no pretext to make war upon
one another, or to pursue their differences by force of arms, but to submit them to the Diet."
[Footnote: Acte pour la Constitution federative de l'Allemagne du 8 Juin 1815, Art. 11: Archives
Diplomatiques, (Stuttgart et Tubingen, 1821-36,) Vol. IV. p. 15.]

Better words could not be found for the United States of Europe, in the establishment of that
Great Era when the Duel shall cease to be the recognized Arbiter of Nations.

With this exposition, which I hope is not too long, it is easy to see how completely a war
between two nations is a duel,--and, yet further, how essential it is to that assured peace
which civilization requires, that the duel, which is no longer tolerated as arbiter between
individuals, between towns, between counties, between provinces, should cease to be tolerated
as such between nations. Take our own country, for instance. In a controversy between towns,
the local law provides a judicial tribunal; so also in a controversy between counties. Ascending
still higher, suppose a controversy between two States of our Union; the National Constitution
establishes a judicial tribunal, being the Supreme Court of the United States. But at the next
stage there is a change. Let the controversy arise between two nations, and the Supreme Law,
which is the Law of Nations, establishes, not a judicial tribunal, but the duel, as arbiter.
What is true of our country is true of other countries where civilization has a foothold, and
especially of France and Germany. The duel, though abolished as arbiter at home, is continued
as arbiter abroad. And since it is recognized by International Law and subjected to a code,
it is in all respects an Institution. War is an institution sanctioned by International Law,
as Slavery, wherever it exists, is an institution sanctioned by Municipal Law. But this institution
is nothing but the duel of the Dark Ages, prolonged into this generation, and showing itself
in portentous barbarism.

WHY THIS PARALLEL NOW?

Therefore am I right, when I call the existing combat between France and Germany a Duel. I
beg you to believe that I do this with no idle purpose of illustration or criticism, but because
I would prepare the way for a proper comprehension of the remedy to be applied. How can this
terrible controversy be adjusted? I see no practical method, which shall reconcile the sensibilities
of France with the guaranties due to Germany, short of a radical change in the War System itself.
That Security for the Future which Germany may justly exact can be obtained in no way so well
as by the disarmament of France, to be followed naturally by the disarmament of other nations,
and the substitution of some peaceful tribunal for the existing Trial by Battle. Any dismemberment,
or curtailment of territory, will be poor and inadequate; for it will leave behind a perpetual
sting. Something better must be done.

SUDDENNESS OF THIS WAR.

Never in history has so great a calamity descended so suddenly upon the Human Family, unless
we except the earthquake toppling down cities and submersing a whole coast in a single night.
But how small all that has ensued from any such convulsion, compared with the desolation and
destruction already produced by this war! From the first murmur to the outbreak was a brief
moment of time, as between the flash of lightning and the bursting of the thunder.

At the beginning of July there was peace without suspicion of interruption. The Legislative
Body had just discussed a proposition for the reduction of the annual Army Contingent. At Berlin
the Parliament was not in session. Count Bismarck was at his country home in Pomerania, the
King enjoying himself at Ems. How sudden and unexpected the change will appear from an illustrative
circumstance. M. Prevost-Paradol, of rare talent and unhappy destiny, newly appointed Minister
to the United States, embarked at Havre on the 1st of July, and reached Washington on the morning
of the 14th of July. He assured me that when he left France there was no talk or thought of
war. During his brief summer voyage the whole startling event had begun and culminated. Prince
Leopold of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen being invited to become candidate for the throne of Spain,
France promptly sent her defiance to Prussia, followed a few days later by formal Declaration
of War. The Minister was oppressed by the grave tidings coming upon him so unprepared, and
sought relief in self- slaughter, being the first victim of the war. Everything moved with
a rapidity borrowed from the new forces supplied by human invention, and the Gates of War swung
wide open.

CHALLENGE TO PRUSSIA.

A few incidents exhibit this movement. It was on the 30th of June, while discussing the proposed
reduction of the Army, that Emile Ollivier, the Prime-Minister, said openly: "The Government
has no kind of disquietude; at no epoch has the maintenance of peace been more assured; on
whatever side you look, you see no irritating question under discussion." [Footnote: Journal
Officiel du Soir, 3 Juillet 1870.] In the same debate, Gamier-Pages, the consistent Republican,
and now a member of the Provisional Government, after asking, "Why these armaments?" cried
out: "Disarm, without waiting for others: this is practical. Let the people be relieved from
the taxes which crush them, and from the heaviest of all, the tax of blood." [Footnote: Journal
Official du Soir, 2 Juillet 1870.] The candidature of Prince Leopold seems to have become known
at Paris on the 5th of July. On the next day the Duc de Gramont, of a family famous in scandalous
history, Minister of Foreign Affairs, hurries to the tribune with defiance on his lips. After
declaring for the Cabinet that no foreign power could be suffered, by placing one of its princes
on the throne of Charles the Fifth, to derange the balance of power in Europe, and put in peril
the interests and the honor of France, he concludes by saying, in ominous words: "Strong in
your support, Gentlemen, and in that of the nation, we shall know how to do our duty without
hesitation and without weakness." [Footnote: Ibid., 8 Juillet.]

This defiance was followed by what is called in the report, "general and prolonged movement,--repeated
applause"; and here was the first stage in the duel. Its character was recognized at once in
the Chamber. Gamier-Pages exclaimed, in words worthy of memory: "It is dynastic questions which
trouble the peace of Europe. The people have only reason to love and aid each other." [Footnote:
Ibid.] Though short, better than many long speeches. Cremieux, an associate in the Provisional
Government of 1848, insisted that the utterance of the Minister was "a menace of war"; and
Emmanuel Arago, son of the great Republican astronomer and mathematician, said that the Minister
"had declared war." [Footnote: Ibid.]

These patriotic representatives were not mistaken. The speech made peace difficult, if not
impossible. It was a challenge to Prussia.

COMEDY.

Europe watched with dismay as the gauntlet was thus rudely flung down, while on this side of
the Atlantic, where France and Germany commingle in the enjoyment of our equal citizenship,
the interest was intense. Morning and evening the telegraph made us all partakers of the hopes
and fears agitating the world. Too soon it was apparent that the exigence of France would not
be satisfied, while already her preparations for war were undisguised. At all the naval stations,
from Toulon to Cherbourg, the greatest activity prevailed. Marshal MacMahon was recalled from
Algeria, and transports were made ready to bring back the troops from that colony.