Transcriber's note

A few obvious typographical errors have been corrected, and they are listed at the end of this
book.

   THE STORY

   OF THE

   KEARSARGE

   AND

   ALABAMA.

   SAN FRANCISCO:
   HENRY PAYOT & CO., PUBLISHERS.

   1868.

   Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by

   EDWARD BOSQUI & CO.,

   In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for
   the District of California.

   EDWARD BOSQUI & CO., PRINTERS.
   517 Clay Street, San Francisco.

The Author is induced to publish this narrative of the Kearsarge and Alabama, from the want
that exists of a popular, detailed, and yet concise account of the engagement between the two
vessels.

THE STORY.

On Sunday, June 12th, 1864, the U. S. Steamer Kearsarge was lying at anchor in the Scheldt,
off Flushing, Holland. Suddenly appeared the cornet at the fore--an unexpected signal, that
compelled absent officers and men to repair on board. Steam was raised, and immediately after
a departure made, when all hands being called, the nature of the precipitate movement became
apparent. Captain Winslow, in a brief address, announced the welcome intelligence of the reception
of a telegram from his Excellency, Mr. Dayton, Minister Resident at Paris, to the effect that
the notorious Alabama had arrived the day previous at Cherbourg, France; hence, the urgency
of departure, the probability of an encounter, and the confident expectation of her destruction
or capture. The crew responded by cheers.

The succeeding day witnessed the arrival of the Kearsarge at Dover, England, for dispatches,
and the day after (Tuesday) her appearance off Cherbourg Breakwater. At anchor in the harbor
was seen the celebrated Alabama--a beautiful specimen of naval architecture, eliciting encomiums
for evident neatness, good order, and a well-disciplined crew, indicative of efficiency in
any duty required. The surgeon of the Kearsarge proceeded on shore and obtained pratique for
boats. Owing to the enforcement of the neutral twenty-four hour regulation, to anchor, became
inexpedient; the result was the establishment of a vigilant watch, alternately, at each of
the harbor entrances, which continued to the moment of the engagement.

On Wednesday, Captain Winslow paid an official visit to the Admiral commanding the Maritime
District and the U. S. Commercial Agent, bringing on his return the unanticipated news that
Captain Semmes declared his intention to fight. At first, the assertion was hardly credited,
the policy of the Alabama being regarded as in opposition to a conflict, but even the doubters
were speedily half convinced when the character of the so-called challenge was disclosed, viz.:

                "C. S. S. ALABAMA, Cherbourg, June 14th, 1864.

This communication was sent by Mr. Bonfils to the U. S. Commercial Agent, Mr. Liais, with a
request that the latter would furnish a copy to Captain Winslow for his guidance. There was
no other defiance to combat. The letter that passed between the commercial agents, was the
challenge about which so much has been written. Captain Semmes indirectly informed Captain
Winslow of his desire for a combat. Captain Winslow made no reply, but prepared his ship to
meet the opponent, thereby tacitly acknowledging the so-called challenge and its acceptance.

Requisite preparations were immediately instituted for battle, with no relaxation of the watch.
Thursday passed; Friday came, and yet no Alabama appeared. According to report, important arrangements
were being effected; a zeal was displayed in the reception of coals, the transmission of valuables
on shore, and the sharpening of swords, cutlasses, boarding-pikes, and battle-axes. To the
observer this preparation confirmed the assurance of the certainty of a fight. An intended
surprise by night was suggested, and measures precautionary taken. Dispatches were brought
from Mr. Dayton, Minister at Paris, by his son, who with difficulty had obtained permission
from the Admiral commanding to visit the Kearsarge. To preserve a strictly honest neutrality,
the French authorities had prohibited all communication with the respective vessels. Mr. Dayton
expressed the opinion that the Alabama would not fight, though acknowledging the prevalence
of a contrary impression at Cherbourg; he departed for the shore with intention to proceed
immediately to Paris. In taking leave of the Admiral, the latter mentioned the fixed determination
of Captain Semmes to engage with the Kearsarge on the day following (Sunday), and that he imparted
this intelligence, since no subsequent communication could be had with the Kearsarge. Mr. Dayton
consequently deferred his departure, witnessed the action, telegraphed to Paris the result,
and was one of the first to repair on board and offer congratulations. He passed a portion
of Saturday night endeavoring to procure a boat to dispatch to the Kearsarge the information
acquired, but so securely was the coast guarded by the enforcement of the Admiral's orders,
that all his efforts were useless.

At a supper in Cherbourg on Saturday night, several officers of the Alabama met sympathizing
French friends--the impending fight being the chief topic of conversation. In confidence of
an easy victory, they boastingly proclaimed the intention either to sink the Federal or gain
another corsair. They rise with promise to meet the following night to renew the festivity
as victors, are escorted to the boat, and separate with cheers and wishes for a successful return.

Sunday the 19th comes; a fine day, atmosphere somewhat hazy, little sea, moderate westerly wind.

At 10 A.M. the crew are inspected at quarters and dispersed to attend divine service at 11
o'clock. Seemingly no one thought of the Alabama, for so long awaited and not appearing, speculation
as to her probable advent had ceased. At 10.20 the officer of the deck reports a steamer coming
from Cherbourg, a frequent occurrence, and consequently creates no excitement. Soon, by the
aid of a glass, he descries the enemy, and shouts: "The Alabama!" Instantly all hands are called
and the ship cleared for action.

The position of the Kearsarge was off the eastern entrance to the harbor, at a distance of
nearly three miles, the Alabama approaching from the western entrance, escorted by the French
iron-clad frigate La Couronne, and followed by a fore-and-aft rigged steamer, flying the English
yacht flag, the Deerhound. The frigate having convoyed the Alabama outside the limit of French
waters, with characteristic neutrality, steamed back into port without delay; the yacht remained
in proximity to the scene of action. To avoid a question of jurisdiction, and to prevent an
escape of the Alabama to neutral waters in the event of a retreat, the Kearsarge steamed to
sea making final preparations, the last being the sanding of decks (sufficiently suggestive
of sober thoughts), followed by the enemy, until a distance of about seven miles from the shore
was attained, when at 10.50 the Kearsarge wheeled, bringing her head in shore, and presented
starboard battery, being one and a quarter miles from her opponent: the Kearsarge advanced
rapidly, and at 10.57 received the first broadside of solid shot at a distance of eighteen
hundred yards from the Alabama. This broadside cut away a little of the rigging, but the shot
chiefly passed over or fell short. With increased speed the Kearsarge advanced, receiving a
second and part of a third broadside with similar effect. Arrived within nine hundred yards
of the Alabama, the Kearsarge, fearing a fourth broadside with evident raking results, sheered
and broke her silence by opening with the starboard battery. Each vessel was now pressed under
a full head of steam, each employing the starboard battery, and to obviate passing each other
too speedily, and to maintain the bearing of the respective broadsides, the circular method
of fighting was necessitated, each steering around a common center, from a quarter to half
a mile apart.

The action was now fairly commenced. One of the shot of the first broadsides of the Kearsarge
carried away the spanker-gaff of the enemy, and caused his ensign to come down by the run.
This incident was received as a favorable omen by the fortunate crew, who cheered vociferously
and went with increased confidence to their work. Wild and rapid was the firing of the Alabama,
that of the Kearsarge being deliberate, precise, and almost from the commencement productive
of death, destruction, and dismay. The Kearsarge gunners had been cautioned against firing
without direct aim, advised to elevate or depress the guns with deliberation, and though subjected
to an incessant storm of shot and shell, proceeded calmly to their duty, and faithfully complied
with the instructions. The effect upon the enemy was readily perceived; nothing restrained
the enthusiasm of the crew. Cheer succeeded cheer, caps thrown in the air or overboard, jackets
discarded, one encouraging the other, sanguine of victory, shouting as each projectile took
effect: "That is a good one;" "that told;" "give her another;" "down boys;" "give her another
like the last;" and so on, cheering, exulting, joyous to the end. After exposure to an uninterrupted
cannonading for eighteen minutes without casualties, a sixty-eight-pound Blakely shell passed
through the starboard bulwarks below main rigging, exploded upon the quarter-deck, and wounded
three of the crew of the after-pivot gun. With these exceptions, not an officer or a man of
the Kearsarge received the slightest injury. The unfortunates were speedily taken below, and
so quietly was the action performed, that at the termination of the fight a large portion of
the crew were unaware that any of their comrades were wounded. Two shot entered the ports occupied
by the thirty-twos, where several men were stationed, and yet none were hit. A shell exploded
in the hammock-netting and set the ship on fire; the alarm calling to fire-quarters was sounded,
and persons specially detailed for a like emergency, promptly extinguished the flames, while
the remainder of the crew continued at the guns without interruption.

Terrific was the effect of the eleven-inch shell upon the crew of the doomed ship: many were
torn asunder by shell direct, or horribly mutilated by splinters. Her decks were covered with
blood and the debris of bodies. One gun (after-pivot) had its crew renewed four times, fourteen
out of nineteen men being disabled during the action. The carnage around this gun was more
frightful than elsewhere; so great was the accumulation of blood and fragments of limbs, that
a removal was required before the gun could be worked. A man upon the bowsprit is struck in
the abdomen by a shot, staggers aft holding up his entrails, and near the main hatch falls
dead. Another is cut in twain, one-half of the body going down the engine hatch, the other
half remaining on deck. A poor wretch paralyzed by fear leaves his station and vainly seeks
safety by a plea of indisposition; he is ordered to resume his position at the gun, and not
obeying, is killed by a pistol shot from the officer commanding the division.

It is truly wonderful that so few casualties should have occurred on board the Kearsarge with
so large a percentage to her adversary--the first having fired one hundred and seventy-three
shot and shell, and the second nearly double that number. Probably no future similar combat
will occasion like results.

The fight continues. The eleven-inch shell tell with astonishing precision; one penetrates
a coal bunker, and immediately a dense cloud of coal-dust rises and like a pall hovers over
the fated ship. Others strike near the water-line between the main and mizzen masts, explode
within board, or passing through burst afar off. Crippled and torn the Alabama moves less quickly
and begins to settle by the stern, yet relaxes not her fire, but returns successive broadsides,
ever without disastrous effect. Captain Semmes witnesses the dreadful havoc made by the shell,
especially by those of the after-pivot gun, and offers a reward for its silence. Soon his battery
is turned upon the particular offending gun with endeavor to compel its abandonment; in vain,
for its work of destruction goes on. Captain Semmes places sharp-shooters in the quarter boats
to pick off the officers; in vain, for none are injured. He views the surrounding devastation--a
sinking ship, rudder and propeller disabled, a large portion of the crew killed or wounded,
while his adversary is apparently but slightly damaged. He has completed the seventh rotation
on the circular tract and is conscious of defeat. He seeks to escape by setting all available
sail (foretrysail and two jibs), leaves the circle and heads for the neutral waters of the
French coast. The speed of his vessel is lessened; in winding she presents the port battery
with only two guns bearing, and exhibits gaping sides. The Alabama is at the mercy of the Kearsarge.
Captain Semmes calls his officers aft, briefly states the condition of the two vessels, and
orders a surrender to prevent a further loss of life.

The colors are struck and the Kearsarge ceases firing. Two of the junior officers of the Alabama
swear they will never surrender to a "damned Yankee," but rather go down in the ship; in a
mutinous spirit they rush to the two port guns and open fire upon the Kearsarge. Captain Winslow,
amazed at this unwonted conduct of an enemy who had hauled down his flag in token of surrender,
exclaimed: "He is playing us a trick, give him another broadside." Again the shot and shell
go crashing through the bulwarks, carrying death and destruction; the Kearsarge is laid across
the bows for raking and in position to employ grape and canister with deadly effect. Over the
stern of the Alabama is displayed a white flag, her ensign half-masted, union down; Captain
Winslow for the second time orders a cessation of firing.

Captain Semmes in his report says: "Although we were now but four hundred yards from each other,
the enemy fired upon me five times after my colors had been struck. It is charitable to suppose
that a ship-of-war of a christian nation could not have done this intentionally." He had not
the generosity to afford the explanation; he is silent as to the renewal of the fight after
his surrender; an act which in christian warfare would, in severe justice, have authorized
the Kearsarge to continue firing until the Alabama had disappeared beneath the waters; nay,
even to have refused quarter to the survivors.

Thus ended the fight after a duration of one hour and two minutes.

Boats were now lowered from the humbled Alabama. A master's mate, an Englishman, Fullam by
name, came alongside the Kearsarge with a few of the wounded, reported the disabled and sinking
condition of his vessel, and asked for assistance.

Captain Winslow demanded: "Does Captain Semmes surrender his ship?" "Yes," was the reply. Fullam
then solicited permission to return to the Alabama with his boat and crew to assist in rescuing
the drowning, pledging his word of honor that when this act was accomplished, he would come
on board and surrender himself a prisoner. Unhappily Captain Winslow granted the request. With
less generosity, he could have detained the rebel officer and men, supplied their places in
the boat from his own ship's company, secured more prisoners, and afforded equal aid to the
distressed. The generosity was abused as the sequel shows. Fullam pulled to the midst of the
drowning, rescued several officers, proceeded to the Deerhound, cast his boat adrift, and basely
violated his proffered word of honor.

The Deerhound, after the conclusion of the fight, appears upon the scene, and plays an important
part. This yacht was built by the Messrs. Laird, at the same yard with the Alabama. Coming
under the stern from the windward, the Deerhound was hailed, and her commander requested by
Captain Winslow to run down to the Alabama and assist in picking up the men of the sinking
vessel. Or, as Mr. Lancaster reported: "The fact is, that when we passed the Kearsarge the
captain cried out,--'For God's sake do what you can to save them;' and that was my warrant
for interfering in any way for the aid and succor of his enemies." The Deerhound steamed towards
the Alabama, which sank almost immediately after, lowered her boats, rescued Captain Semmes,
thirteen officers, and twenty-six men, leaving the rest of the survivors to the boats of the
Kearsarge, and departed directly for Southampton. Captain Winslow permitted the yacht to secure
his prisoners, anticipating their subsequent surrender. Again was his confidence in the integrity
of a neutral misplaced. The assistance of the yacht, it is presumed, was solicited in a spirit
of chivalry, for the Kearsarge comparatively uninjured, with but three wounded, possessed of
a full head of steam, was in condition to engage a second enemy: instead of remaining at a
distance of about four hundred yards from the Alabama, and from this position sending two boats
(others being unserviceable), the Kearsarge by steaming close to the settling ship and in midst
of the vanquished, could have captured all--Semmes, officers, and men.

The Deerhound steams rapidly away. An officer approaches Captain Winslow and reports the presence
of Captain Semmes and many officers on board the English yacht, considering the information
authentic as it was obtained from certain prisoners; he suggests the propriety of firing a
shot to bring her to, and asks permission. Captain Winslow chivalrously replies in the negative,
declaring that no Englishman who flies the royal yacht flag, would act so dishonorable a part
as to run away with his prisoners when he had been asked to save them from drowning. Meanwhile
the Deerhound increases the distance from the Kearsarge; another officer addresses Captain
Winslow in language of similar effect, but with more positiveness, that Semmes and his officers
were on board the yacht endeavoring to escape. With undiminished confidence in the honor of
the English gentleman, with continued chivalric spirit Captain Winslow refuses to have a shot
fired, not crediting the flight, saying that the yacht was "simply coming round," and would
not go away without communicating. "I could not believe that the commander of that vessel could
be guilty of so disgraceful an act as taking our prisoners, and therefore took no means to
prevent it." Without this trust in chivalry, Captain Winslow might have arrested the yacht
in her flight, if only as a prudential motive, reserving final action as to the seizure of
the passengers when time had been afforded for reflection.

No shot is fired: the Deerhound finally disappears with the great prize, Semmes, and thus passed
an opportunity of making this brilliant engagement one of the most complete and satisfactory
in naval history.

Captain Winslow erroneously thought that the Deerhound would not run away with the rescued
persons: in this opinion he was probably alone. An excitement occurred as a consequent; an
expression of regret for the escape of the yacht and her coveted prize, after being as it were
within reach of the victors. The bitterness of the regret was manifest. The famed Alabama,
"a formidable ship, the terror of American commerce, well armed, well manned, well handled,"
was destroyed, "sent to the bottom in an hour," but her notorious commander had escaped: the
eclat of victory seemed already lessened.

At 12.24 the Alabama sank in forty-five fathoms of water, at a distance of about four and a
half miles from Cherbourg Breakwater, off the west entrance. She was severely hulled between
the main and mizzen masts, and commenced settling by the stern before the termination of the
conflict. Her crew had jumped into the sea, supporting themselves by portions of the wreck,
spars, and other accessible objects, the water swept over the stern and upper deck, and when
thus partially submerged, the mainmast, pierced by a shot, broke off near the head, the bow
lifted from the waves, and then came the end. Suddenly assuming a perpendicular position, caused
by the falling aft of the battery and stores, straight as a plumb-line, stern first, she went
down, the jibboom being the last to appear above water. Down sank the terror of merchantmen,
riddled through and through, and as she disappeared to her last resting place, not a cheer
arose from the victors. To borrow the language of the Liverpool Courrier: "Down under the French
waters, resting on the bed of the ocean, lies the gallant Alabama, with all her guns aboard,
and some of her brave crew, waiting until the sea yields up its dead."

Mounted on the summit of an old church tower, a photographic artist obtained a good negative
of the contest. An excursion train from Paris arrived Sunday morning, bringing hundreds of
pleasure-seekers who were unexpectedly favored by the spectacle of a sea-fight. The events
of the day monopolized the conversation of Parisian society for more than a week.

This grand artillery duel, or Sunday gladiatorial combat, occurred in the presence of more
than fifteen thousand spectators, who upon the heights of Cherbourg, the breakwater, and rigging
of men-of-war, witnessed "the last of the Alabama." Among them were the captains and crews
of two merchant ships burnt by the daring rover a few days before her arrival at Cherbourg.
Their excitement during the combat was intense, and their expressions of joy to the victors
at the result, such as only those who had suffered from the depredations of the Alabama could
give utterance to. Many were desirous to go on board the Kearsarge to participate in the action,
but so strictly was the neutrality law observed, no intercourse was allowed.

The Alabama's wounded were brought on board the Kearsarge for surgical attendance. Seventy
persons, including five officers, were saved by the boats. The conduct of Dr. Llewellyn, native
of Wales, Assistant Surgeon of the Alabama, deserves mention. He was unremitting in attention
to the wounded during the battle, and after the surrender, superintended their removal to the
Kearsarge, nobly refusing to leave the ship while one remained. This humane duty performed,
with inability to swim, he caused two empty shell boxes to be attached to his waist, an improvised
life-preserver, and thus prepared leaped overboard. In the hurried adjustment of the shell
boxes, sufficient care was not taken to maintain the center of gravity, the unfortunate gentleman
failed to keep his head above water, and before aid could be derived from his struggling comrades,
he was dead.

At 3.10 P.M. the Kearsarge anchored in Cherbourg harbor; the wounded were transferred the same
evening to the Hôpital de la Marine, and all the prisoners, officers excepted, were paroled
and set on shore before sunset. The crew of both vessels harmonized after the fight, the conquerors
sharing their clothes, supper, and grog with the conquered.

The total casualties of the Alabama are not known, estimated at forty-seven--a striking contrast
to the three of the Kearsarge. Two of these three recovered; one, the brave Gowin, died in
hospital. The behavior of this gallant sailor during and after the battle, as described by
the Executive Officer and Surgeon, is worthy of the highest commendation. Stationed at the
after-pivot gun, by the explosion of a shell, he was seriously wounded in the left thigh and
leg; in the agony of pain, and exhausted from the loss of blood, he dragged himself to the
forward hatch, concealing the severity of injury, that his comrades might not leave their stations
for his assistance: fainting, he was lowered to the care of the surgeon, whom poor Gowin, in
acuteness of suffering, greeted with a smile, saying: "Doctor, I can fight no more and so come
to you, but it is all right, I am satisfied, for we are whipping the Alabama;" and subsequently:
"I will willingly lose my leg or my life if it is necessary." Lying upon his mattress he paid
strict attention to the progress of the fight, as far as could be elicited by the sounds on
deck--his face beaming with satisfaction whenever the cheers of his shipmates were heard; with
difficulty he waved his hand over his head and joined in each exulting shout with a feeble
voice. At times he would comfort the other wounded by an earnest assurance that "victory is
ours!" Directly after the fight he desired the surgeon to render him no further attention,
for he was "doing well," requesting that all his time should be devoted to the "poor fellows
of the Alabama." In the hospital he was resigned, thankful for being the only victim, proud
of his ship and shipmates, frequently asserting his willingness to die after so glorious a
victory. "This man, so interesting by his courage and resignation," wrote the French surgeon-in-chief,
with uniform patience and cheerfulness, enlisted general sympathy; all anxiously desired his
recovery and sincerely regretted his decease. Certainly one of the most interesting events
of the action is the heroic conduct of the brave Gowin.

An incident that ever occasions gratification in its relation, was the singular coincidence
of the lowering of the rebel colors by an early shot from the Kearsarge, and the unfolding
of the victorious flag by a shot from the last volley of the Alabama, prior to surrender. At
the main peak of the Kearsarge the colors were stopped, that they might be displayed if the
ensign was carried away, and to serve as the emblem of victory in case of a happy success.
It will be remembered that the Alabama's colors were brought down by a shot from one of the
first broadsides of the Kearsarge,--an auspicious omen for the sailor at the commencement of
battle. A shot from the last broadside of the Alabama passed high over the Kearsarge, striking
and carrying away the halyards of the colors at the main peak, and in so doing, pulled sufficiently
to break the stop, and thereby unfurled the triumphant flag at the moment the rebel ensign
was struck in token of submission.

The Alabama was destroyed--the Kearsarge being so little damaged, that if required, could have
engaged another enemy. It is surprising that the Alabama's fire should have produced so moderate
an injury, for, according to report, over three hundred shot and shell were discharged; of
these, thirteen took effect in the hull, and fifteen in sails, rigging, boats, and smoke-stack.
Luckily, a one hundred and ten-pounder rifle shell which lodged in the stern post, raising
the transom frame, and a thirty-two-pounder shell that entered forward of forward-pivot port,
crushing water-ways, did not explode.

Captain Semmes, in his official report, says: "At the end of the engagement it was discovered
by those of our officers who went alongside the enemy's ship with the wounded, that her midship
section on both sides was thoroughly iron-coated. This planking had been ripped off in every
direction by our shot and shell, the chain broken and indented in many places, and forced partly
into the ship's side. The enemy was heavier than myself, both in ship, battery, and crew; but
I did not know until the action was over that she was also iron-clad." The chain-plating of
the Kearsarge, the "iron-clad" of Captain Semmes, consisted of one hundred and twenty fathoms
of sheet chains covering a space amid-ships of forty-nine and one-half feet in length by sixteen
feet two inches in depth, stopped up and down to eyebolts with marlines, secured by iron-dogs
and employed for the purpose of protecting the engines when the upper part of the coal bunkers
was empty, as happened during the action. The chains were concealed by inch deal boards as
a finish. The chain-plating was struck twice, by a thirty-two pound shot in starboard gangway,
which cut the chain and bruised planking, and by a thirty-two-pounder shell, which broke a
link of the chain, exploded, and tore away a portion of the deal covering. Had the shot been
from the one hundred and ten-pounder rifle, the result would have been different, though without
serious damage, because the shot struck five feet above the water line, and if sent through
the side would have cleared the machinery and boilers. It is proper therefore to assert that
in the absence of the chain-armor the result would have remained the same, notwithstanding
the common impression at the time, of an "iron clad" contending with a wooden vessel. The chains
were attached to the ship's side more than a year previous to the fight, while at the Azores;
in subsequent visits to European ports they had attracted notice and caused repeated comment.
Strange that Captain Semmes did not know of the chain-armor before the fight; supposed rebel
spies had been on board, there was no attempt at concealment; the same pilot was employed by
both vessels and visited each during the preparation for battle.

One hundred and sixty-three was the number of the crew of the Kearsarge, including officers;
that of the Alabama not definitely known, but from the most reliable information estimated
at nearly the same. The tonnage of the former 1031, of the latter 1044. The battery of the
Kearsarge consisted of seven guns, two eleven-inch pivots, smooth bore, one twenty-eight-pounder
rifle, and four light thirty-two pounders; that of the Alabama of eight guns, one sixty-eight-pounder
pivot, smooth bore, one one hundred and ten-pounder rifle pivot, and six heavy thirty-two pounders.
Five guns were fought by the Kearsarge, seven by the Alabama, both with the starboard batteries.
The Kearsarge had made thirteen and one-half knots an hour under steam, the Alabama never exceeded
thirteen, and at the time of the action was only equal to ten. The vessels were not unequally
matched in size, speed, crew, and armament, displaying a similarity not often witnessed in
naval battles. The contest was decided by the superiority of the eleven-inch Dahlgrens over
the Blakely rifle and smooth bore, in connection with the greater coolness and accuracy in
aim of the gunners of the Kearsarge.

"So ends the story of the Alabama," quoting again from the Liverpool Courrier, "whose journal
would be the most interesting volume of ocean literature; whose ubiquity scared the commerce
of America from the seas; whose destructive powers have ruined property belonging to the northerns
valued at upwards of three millions of money; whose actions very nearly involved these countries
in war with the United States. The Americans are indignant that the ship was built by British
hands, of British oak, armed with British guns, and manned by British sailors."

Numerous inaccuracies, suppressions, exaggerations, and discrepancies exist in most of the
accounts of this renowned naval engagement. The first reports published in Europe were characterized
by contradictions sufficient to confuse any reader. This variance was noted by the London Daily
News in the following manner: "The sceptic who called history a matter-of-fact romance, should
have lived in our day, when a naval action is fought off Cherbourg on a Sunday, and reported
to the London and Paris newspapers on the Monday morning, no two reports agreeing in any single
fact, except in the result. In our enlightened epoch of incessant, instantaneous, and universal
inter-communication, the difficulty of getting at the simple facts of any passing incident,
in which conflicting sympathies are concerned, increases in proportion to the increasing celerity
and certainty with which the materials of history are gathered. Some allowance, no doubt, may
be made for eyewitnesses on shore of a naval engagement seven miles out at sea. Their 'powerful
glasses' are liable to that peculiar inaccuracy of sight which distance, excitement, and smoke
produce. A French gentleman, for instance, who from Cherbourg Breakwater looked on at the American
duel on Sunday last, wrote a graphic letter to the Debats, with a postscript to the effect
that he had just discovered that the account in his letter was entirely wrong."

Here ends the present story of the Kearsarge and Alabama. It is the truth told honestly.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few obvious typographical errors have been corrected, and they are listed below.

Page 20: "Hopital de la Marine" changed to "Hôpital de la Marine".

Page 24: "which which broke a link" changed to "which broke a link".

Page 27: "postcript to the effect" changed to "postscript to the effect".

