It would be easy to multiply passages in which this simile occurs; but what I have given is
{487} suffcient for my purpose, and I must leave room for "The Trojan Horse."[4]

I must content myself with giving the title of the following work, as I have never met with
the book itself: The Trojan Horse, or The Presbyterian Government Unbowelled, London, 1646.

In a brochure of Primate Bramhall's, entitled

    "A Faire Warning for England to take heed of the Presbyterian
    Government.... Also the Sinfulnesse and Wickednesse of the Covenant,
    to introduce that Government upon the Church of England."

the second paragraph of the first page proceeds:

    "But to see those very men who plead so vehemently against all kinds of
    tyranny, attempt to obtrude their own dreames not only upon their
    fellow-subjects, but upon their sovereigne himself, contrary to the
    dictates of his own conscience, contrary to all law of God and man; yea
    to compell forreigne churches to dance after their pipe, to worship
    that counterfeit image which they feign to have fallen down from
    Jupiter, and by force of arms to turne their neighbours out of a
    possession of above 1400 years, to make roome for their Trojan Horse
    of ecclesiastical discipline (a practice never justified in the world
    but either by the Turk or by the Pope): this put us upon the defensive
    part. They must not think that other men are so cowed or grown so tame,
    as to stand still blowing of their noses, whilst they bridle them and
    ride them at their pleasure. It is time to let the world see that this
    discipline which they so much adore, is the very quintessence of
    refined Popery."

My copy of this tract has no place or date: but it appears to have been printed at the Hague
in 1649. It was answered in the same year by "Robert Baylie, minister at Glasgow," whose reply
was "printed at Delph."

As the tide of the time and circumstance rolled on, this simile gained additional force and
depth; and to understand the admirable aptitude of its application in the passage I shall next
quote, a few preliminary remarks are necessary.

There was always in the Church of England a portion of her members who could not forget that
the Puritans, though external to her communion, were yet fellow Protestants; that they differed
not in kind, but in degree--and that these differences were insignificant compared with those
of Rome. At the same time, they reflected that perhaps the Church of England was not exactly
in the middle, and that she would not lose were she to move a little nearer the Puritan side.
Accordingly, various attempts were made to enlarge the terms of her communion, and eject from
her service-book any lingering "relics of Popery" which might offend the weaker brethren yclept
the Puritans: thus to make a grand Comprehension Creed--a Church to include all Protestants.

This was tried in James I.'s reign at the Savoy Conference; but in spite of Baxter's strenuous
efforts and model prayer-book, it was a failure. Even Archbishop Sancroft was led to attempt
a similar Comprehensive Scheme, so terrified was he at the dominance of the Roman Church in
the Second James's reign: however, William's accession, and his becoming a nonjuror, crossed
his design. In 1689, Tillotson, Burnet, and a number of William's "Latitudinarian" clergy made
a bold push for it. A Comprehension Bill actually passed the House of Lords, but was thrown
out by the Commons and Convocation. From William's time toleration and encouragement were extended
to all save "Popish Recusants;" so that there were a large number in the Church of England
ready to assist their comrades outside in breaking down her fences.