STEPHAN EARLE OF BULLONGNE.

[Sidenote: 1135 An. Reg. 1.] Stephan earle of Bullongne, the sonne of Stephan erle of Blois,
by his wife Adela, daughter to William Conquerour, came ouer with all speed after the death
of his vncle, and tooke vpon him the gouernement of the realme of England, partlie through
confidence which he had in the puissance and strength of his brother Theobald earle of Blois,
and partlie by the aid of his brother Henrie bishop of Winchester and abbat of Glastenburie,
although that he with other of the Nobles had sworne afore to be true vnto the empresse and
hir issue as lawfull heires of king Henrie latelie deceased.

[Sidenote: A tempest. Matth. West.] The same daie that he arriued in England, there chanced
a mightie great tempest of thunder, horrible to heare, and lightning dreadfull to behold. Now
bicause this happened in the winter time, it séemed against nature, and therefore it was the
more noted as a foreshewing of some trouble and calamitie to come.

This Stephan began his reigne ouer the realme of England the second day of December, in the
yere of our Lord 1135. in the eleuenth yeare of the emperour Lothair, the sixt of pope Innocentius
the second, and about the xxvii. of Lewes the seuenth, surnamed Crassus king of France, Dauid
the first of that name then reigning in Scotland, & entring into the twelfe of his regiment.
[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Wil. Mal. Simon Dun.] He was crowned at Westminster vpon S. Stephans
day, by William archbishop of Canturburie, the most part of the Nobles of the realme being
present, and swearing fealtie vnto him, as to their true and lawfull souereigne.

Howbeit, there were diuerse of the wiser sort of all estates, which regarding their former
oth, could haue béene contented that the empresse should haue gouerned till hir sonne had come
to lawfull age; notwithstanding they held their peace as yet, and consented vnto Stephan. [Sidenote:
Periurie punished.] But this breach of their othes was worthilie punished afterward, insomuch
that as well the bishops as the other Nobles either died an euill death, or were afflicted
with diuerse kinds of calamities and mischances, and that euen here in this life, of which
some of them as occasion serueth shall be remembred hereafter. [Sidenote: Wil. Malm. The bishop
of Salisburies protestation.] Yet there were of them (and namelie the bishop of Salisburie)
which protested that they were frée from their oth of allegiance made to the said empresse,
bicause that without the consent of the lords of the land she was maried out of the realme,
whereas they tooke their oth to receiue hir for queene, vpon that condition, that without their
assent she should not marrie with any person out of the realme.

[Sidenote: The bishops think to please God in breaking their oth.] Moreouer (as some writers
thinke) the bishops tooke it, that they should doo God good seruice in prouiding for the wealth
of the realme, and the aduancement of the church by their periurie. For whereas the late deceassed
king vsed himselfe not altogither for their purpose, they thought that if they might set vp
and creat a king chéeflie by their especiall meanes and authoritie, he would follow their counsell
better, and reforme such things as they iudged to be amisse. But a great cause that mooued
manie of the lords vnto the violating thus of their oth, [Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Hugh Bigot.]
was (as some authors rehearse) for that Hugh Bigot, sometime steward to king Henrie the first,
immediatlie after the decease of king Henrie, came into England, and as well before the archbishop
of Canturburie, as diuers other lords of the land, tooke a voluntarie oth (although most men
thinke that he was hired so to doo bicause of great promotion) declaring vpon the same that
he was present a little before king Henries death, when the same king adopted and chose his
nepheue Stephan to be his heire and successour, bicause his daughter, the empresse had gréeuouslie
displeased him. But vnto this mans oth the archbishop and the other lords were so hastie in
giuing of credit. Now the said Hugh for his periurie, by the iust iudgment of God, came shortlie
after to a miserable end.

[Sidenote: Simon Dun.] [Sidenote: 1136.] [Sidenote: Polydor. Simon Dun. Matth. Paris.] But
to our purpose. King Stephan (by what title soeuer he obteined the crowne) immediatlie after
his coronation, went first to Reading to the buriall of the bodie of his vncle Henrie, the
same being now brought ouer from Normandie, from whence after the buriall he repaired to Oxenford,
and there calling a councell of the lords & other estates of his realme; [Sidenote: The faire
promises of king Stephan.] amongst other things he promised before the whole assemblie (to
win the harts of the people) that he would put downe and quite abolish that tribute which oftentimes
was accustomed to be gathered after the rate of their acres of hides or land, commonlie called
Danegilt, which was two shillings of euerie hide of land. Also, that he would so prouide, that
no bishop sees nor other benefices should remaine void, but immediatlie after vpon their first
vacation, they should be againe bestowed vpon some conuenient person meet to supplie the roome.
Further he promised not to seize vpon any mans woods as forfeit, though any priuate man had
hunted and killed his déere in the same woods, as the maner of his predecessour was. ¶ For
a kind of forfeiture was deuised by king Henrie, that those should lose their right inheritance
in their woods, that chanced to kill any of the kings déere within the same.

[Sidenote: Polydor. Ran. Higd. Licence to build castels.] Moreouer, he granted licence to all
men, to build either castell, tower, or other hold for defense of themselues vpon their owne
grounds. Al this did he chieflie in hope that the same might be a safegard for him in time
to come, if the empresse should inuade the land, as he doubted she shortlie would. Moreouer
he aduanced manie yoong & lustie gentlemen to great liuings. [Sidenote: Wil. Malm. In nouella
historia.] For such as were of any noble familie, and thereto through a certeine stoutnesse
of stomach sought preferment, easilie obteined of him the possession of castels and great lordships,
diuerse of whom he honored with titles of dignitie, creating some of them earles and some lords.
Now, such was their importunate sute in demanding, that when he had little more to bestow amongst
them, hauing[1] alreadie giuen sundrie portions that belonged to the crowne, they ceassed not
to be in hand with him for more, and being denied with reasonable excuses on his behalfe, they
thought themselues ill dealt withall, and so turning from him, fortified their castels and
holds, making open warre against him: as hereafter shall appeare.

[Sidenote: The resort of strangers to serue king Stephan.] There came ouer vnto him also a
great number of Flemings and Britons to serue him as souldiers, whom he reteined, to be the
stronger and better able to defend himselfe against the malice of the empresse, by whom he
looked to be molested he wist not how soone. Wherefore he shewed himselfe verie liberall, courteous,
and gentle towards all maner of persons at the first, and (to saie truth) more liberall, familiar,
and free harted than stood with the maiestie of a king: which was afterward a cause that he
grew into contempt. ¶ But to such meanes are princes driuen, that atteine to their estates
more through fauour and support of others, than by any good right or title which they may pretend
of themselues. Thus the gouernement of this prince at the beginning was nothing bitter or heauie
to his subiects, but full of gentlenesse, lenitie, courtesie, and mildnes.

[Sidenote: Polydor.] Howbeit whilest these things were a dooing, certeine of the English Nobilitie,
abhorring both the king and the present state of his gouernment, went priuilie out of the realme
into Scotland to king Dauid, declaring vnto him what a detestable act was committed by the
lords of England, in that (contrarie to their oth made vnto the empresse Maud, and hir issue)
they had now crowned Stephan. Wherefore they besought the said king to take in hand to reuenge
such a vile iniurie practised against hir, and to restore the kingdome vnto the said empresse,
which if he did, it should be a thing most acceptable both to God and man.

[Sidenote: The king of Scots inuadeth the English marshes. Sim. Dunel. Matt. Paris. Polydor.]
King Dauid hauing heard and well weied the effect of their request, foorthwith was so mooued
at their words, that in all possible hast he assembled an armie, and entring into England,
first tooke the citie and castell of Carleil: afterward comming into Northumberland, he tooke
Newcastell and manie other places vpon the borders there. Whereof king Stephan being aduertised,
streightwaies assembled a power, and foorthwith hasted into Cumberland, meaning to recouer
that againe by force of armes, which the enimie had stolen from him by craft and subtiltie.
[Sidenote: K. Stephan encamped néere to his enimie the K. of Scots.] At his approch néere to
Carleil, he pitched downe his field in the euening, thinking there to staie till the morning,
that he might vnderstand of what power the enimie was, whome he knew to be at hand.

King Dauid also was of a fierce courage, and redie inough to haue giuen him battell, but yet
when he beheld the English standards in the field, and diligentlie viewed their order and behauiour,
[Sidenote: An accord made betwixt the two kings Stephan and Dauid.] he was at the last contented
to giue care to such as intreated for peace on both sides. Wherevpon comming to king Stephan,
he entred a fréendlie peace with him, wherein he made a surrender of Newcastell, with condition
that he should reteine Cumberland by the frée grant of king Stephan, who hoped thereby to find
king Dauid the more faithfull vnto him in time of need: but yet he was deceiued, as afterwards
manifestlie appéered. For when king Stephan required of him an oth of allegiance, he answered
that he was once sworne alreadie vnto Maud the empresse. Howbeit to[2] gratifie him, he commanded
his son Henrie to receiue that oth, for the which the king gaue him the earledome of Huntington
to hold of him for euer.

[Sidenote: Hec. Boetius.] ¶ The Scotish chronicles set out the matter in other order, but yet
all agrée that Henrie sweare fealtie to king Stephan, as in the said historie of Scotland you
may sée more at large. [Sidenote: Simon Dun. Matth. Paris. Simon Dun. King Stephan sicke.]
Now after that king Stephan had concluded a peace with king Dauid, he returned to London, and
there kept his Easter with great ioy and triumphes: who whilest he was yet in the middest of
all his pastime, about Rogation wéeke, he chanced to fall sicke of a litargie, by reason whereof
a rumor was spred ouer all the realme that he was dead. Which though it was but a vaine tale,
and of no importance at the first, yet was it after the occasion of much euill. [Sidenote:
False rumors what hurt they oftentimes doo.] For vpon that report great sedition was raised
by the kings enimies amongst the people, the minds of his fréends were alienated from him,
& manie of the Normans (which were well practised in periuries & treasons) thought they might
boldlie attempt all mischéefes that came to hand, and hervpon some of them vndertooke to defend
one place, and some another. [Sidenote: Hugh Bigot. Baldwin Reduers. Robert Quisquere.] Hugh
Bigot erle of Norfolke a valiant chieftein entered into Norwhich, Baldwin Reduers tooke Excester,
& Robert Quisquere got certeine castels also into his hands.

King Stephan hearing what his enimies had doone, though he was somewhat mooued with this alteration
of things, yet as one nothing afraid of the matter, he said merilie to those that stood about
him: "We are aliue yet God be thanked, and that shall be knowne to our enimies yer it be long."
Neither doubted he any thing but some secret practise of treason, and therefore vsing all diligence,
he made the more hast to go against his enimies, whose attempts though streightwaies for the
more part he repressed, yet could he not recouer the places (without much adoo) that, they
had gotten, as Excester, and others: which when he had obteined, he contented himselfe for
a time and followed not the victorie any further in pursuing of his enemies. Wherevpon they
became more bold afterward than before; in somuch that soone after they practised diuerse things
against him, whereof (God willing) some in places conuenient shall appeare: howbeit they permitted
him to remaine in quiet for a time. [Sidenote: Polydor.] But whilest he studied to take order
in things at home (perceiuing how no small number of his subiects did dailie shew themselues
to beare him no hartie good will) he began by little and little to take awaie those liberties
from the people, which in the beginning of his reigne he had granted vnto them, and to denie
those promises which he had made, according to the saieng, "That which I haue giuen, I would
I had not giuen, and that which remaineth I will kéepe still." This sudden alteration and new
kind of rough dealing purchased him great enuie amongst all men in the end. [Sidenote: Geffrey
earle of Aniou.] About the same time, great commotions were raised in Normandie by meanes of
the lord Geffrey earle of Aniou, husband to Maud the empresse, setting the whole countrie in
trouble: but yer any newes thereof came into England, king Stephan went against Baldwin Reduers,
who being latelie (though not without great and long siege expelled out of Excester) got him
into the Isle of Wight, [Sidenote: Simon Dunel. Wil. Paruus. Polydor.] and there began to deuise
a new conspiracie. Howbeit the king comming suddenlie into the Isle, tooke it at the first
assault, and exiled Baldwin out of the realme.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 2. 1137] [Sidenote: K. Stephan passeth into Normandie.] Having thus with
good successe finished this enterprise, and being now aduertised of the businesse in Normandie,
he sailed thither with a great armie: and being come within two daies iournie of his enimie
the earle of Aniou, he sent foorth his whole power of horssemen, diuided into three parts,
which were not gone past a daies iournie forward, but they encountred the earle, finding him
with no great force about him. [Sidenote: The earle of Aniou put to flight.] Wherevpon giuing
the charge vpon him, they put him to flight, and slue manie of his people. Which enterprise
in this maner valientlie atchiued, euen according to the mind of king Stephan, [Sidenote: Lewes
king of France. Eustace son to king Stephan.] he ioined in freendship with Lewes the seuenth
king of France: and hauing latelie created his sonne Eustace duke of Normandie, he presentlie
appointed him to doo his homage vnto the said Lewes for the same.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Theobald erle of Blois.] Now whereas his elder brother Theobald earle
of Blois at that time in Normandie, found himselfe greeued, that Stephan the yoonger brother
had vsurped the lands that belonged to their vncle king Henrie, rather than himselfe, Stephan
to stop this iust complaint of his brother, [Sidenote: K. Stephan agréeth with the earle of
Aniou.] and to allaie his mood, agréed with him, couenanting to paie him yearelie two thousand
marks of such current monie as was then in vse. Furthermore, wheras Geffrey the earle of Aniou
demanded in right of his wife the empresse, the whole kingdome of England, to be at an end
with him, king Stephan was contented to satisfie him with a yearelie pension of fiue thousand
marks, which composition he willinglie receiued.

[Sidenote: Polydor.] Thus when he had prouided for the suertie of Normandie, he returned againe
into England, where he was no sooner arriued, but aduertisement was giuen him of a warre newlie
begon with the Scots, whose king vnder a colour of obseruing the oth to the empresse, [Sidenote:
The Scots inuade the English borders.] made dailie insurrections and inuasions into England,
to the great disturbance of king Stephan and the annoiance of his people. Wherwith being somewhat
mooued, he went streightwaies toward the north parts, and determined first to besiege Bedford
by the waie, which apperteined to the earledome of Huntington, by gift made vnto Henrie the
sonne of king Dauid, and therevpon at that present kept with a garison of Scotish men.

[Sidenote: Simon Dun..] This place did the king besiege by the space of 30. daies togither,
giuing thereto euerie daie an assault or alarme, in somuch that cōming thither on Christmasse
daie, he spared not on the morow to assaile them, and so at length wan the towne from them
by méere force and strength. [Sidenote: An. Reg. 3. 1138.] [Sidenote: King Dauid inuaded Northumberland.
Matth. West. Polydor. Matt. Paris. Simon Dun.] King Dauid hearing those newes, and being alreadie
in armour in the field, entered into Northumberland, and licensed his men of warre to spoile
and rob the countrie thereabout at their pleasure. Herevpon followed such crueltie, that their
rage stretched vnto old and yoong, vnto preest and clearke, yea women with child escaped not
their hands, they hanged, headed, and slue all that came in their waie: houses were burnt,
cattell driuen awaie, and all put to fire and sword that serued to any vse for reléefe, either
of man or beast.

¶ Here we see what a band of calamities doo accompanie and waite vpon
warre, wherein also we haue to consider what a traine of felicities doo
attend vpon peace, by an equall comparing of which twaine togither, we
may easilie perceiue in how heauenlie an estate those people be that
liue vnder the scepter of tranquillitie, and contrariwise what a hellish
course of life they lead that haue sworne their seruice to the sword. We
may consider also the inordinat outrages of princes, & their frantike
fiersenes, who esteeme not the losse of their subiects liues, the
effusion of innocent bloud, the population of countries, the ruinating
of ample regions, &c.: so their will may be satisfied, there desire
serued. [Sidenote: M. Pal. in suo Capric.] And therefore it was aptlie
spoken by a late poet, not beside this purpose:
    Reges atque duces dira impelluntur in arma,
    Imperiúmque sibi miserorum cæde lucrantur.
    O cæci, ô miseri, quid? bellum pace putatis
    Dignius aut melius? nempe hôc nil terpius, & nil
    Quod magis humanâ procul à ratione recedat.
    [Sidenote: Ouid.]
      Candida pax homines, trux decet ira feras.

[Sidenote: K. Stephan maketh hast to rescue the north parts.] But to our storie. King Stephan
hearing of this pitifull spoile, hasted forward with great iournies to the rescue of the countrie.
[Sidenote: The Scots retire.] The Scots put in feare of spéedie comming to encounter them,
drew backe into Scotland: [Sidenote: K. Stephan burnt the south parts of Scotland.] but he
pursued them, and entring into their countrie burned and destroied the south parts of that
realme in most miserable maner. Whilest king Stephan was thus about to beat backe the forren
enimies, and reuenge himselfe on them, he was assailed by other at home, & not without the
iust vengeance of almightie God, who meant to punish him for his periurie committed in taking
vpon him the crowne, contrarie to his oth made vnto the empresse and hir children. [Sidenote:
Robert earle of Glocester.] For Robert erle of Glocester, base brother vnto the empresse, and
of hir priuie councell, sought by all meanes how to bring king Stephan into hatred, both of
the Nobles and commons, that by their helpe he might be expelled the realme, and the gouernment
restored to the empresse and hir sonne.

Such earnest trauell was made by this earle of Glocester, that manie of his freends which fauoured
his cause, now that king Stephan was occupied in the north parts, ioined with him in conspiracie
against their souereigne. [Sidenote: Bristow taken.] First the said earle himselfe tooke Bristowe;
and after this diuerse other townes and castels there in that countrie were taken by him and
others, with full purpose to kéepe the same to the behoofe of the empresse and hir sonne. [Sidenote:
Sim. Dun. Talbot.] Amongst other William Talbot tooke vpon him to defend Hereford in Wales:
[Sidenote: Matt. Paris. Louell. Painell. Fitz-John. Fitz-Alain.] William Louell held the castell
of Gary: Paganell or Painell kept the castell of Ludlow: William de Moun the castell of Dunestor:
Robert de Nicholl, the castle of Warram: Eustace Fitz-John, the castle of Walton; and William
Fitz-Alain, the castle of Shrewesburie.

When word hereof came to king Stephan, he was maruellouslie vexed: for being determined to
haue pursued the Scots euen to the vttermost limits of their countrie, he was now driuen to
change his mind, and thought it good at the first to stop the proceedings of his enimies at
home, least in giuing them space to increase their force, they might in processe of time growe
so strong, that it would be an hard matter to resist them at the last. [Sidenote: Simon Dun.
Matth. Paris. The castle of Douer deliuered to the quéene. Polydor.] Herevpon therefore he
returned southward, and comming vpon his enimies, recouered out of their hands diuers of those
places which they held, as Hereford, and the castle of Shrewesburie. About the same time one
Walkeline yéelded the castle of Douer vnto the quéene, who had besieged him within the same.

Now king Stephan knowing that the Scots were not like long to continue in quiet, returned northwards
againe; [Sidenote: Thurstan archbishop of Yorke made lieutenant of the north ports.] and comming
to Thurstan the archbishop of Yorke, he committed the kéeping of the countrie vnto his charge,
commanding him to be in a redinesse to defend the borders vpon any sudden inuasion. Which thing
the couragious archbishop willinglie vndertooke. By this meanes king Stephan being eased of
a great part of his care, fell in hand to besiege the residue of those places which the rebels
kept: but they fearing to abide the danger of an assault, fled away, some into one part, and
some into another; whom the kings power of horssemen still pursuing and ouertaking by the way,
slue, and tooke no small number of them prisoners in the chase. Thus was the victorie in maner
wholie atchiued, and all those places recouered, which the enimies had fortified.

[Sidenote: The Scots eftsoones inuade Northumberland.] In like maner when king Dauid heard
that the king was thus vexed with ciuill warre at home, he entred England againe in most forceable
wise: and sending his horssemen abroad into the countrie, commanded them to waste and spoile
the same after their accustomed maner. But in the meane time he purposed with himselfe to besiege
Yorke: which citie if he might haue woone, he determined to haue made it the frontier hold
against king Stephan, and the rest that tooke part with him. Herevpon calling in his horssemen
from straieng further abroad, he marched thitherwards, and comming neere to the citie, pitched
downe his tents.

[Sidenote: Archbishop Thurstan raiseth a power to fight with the Scots.] In this meane while
the archbishop Thurstan, to whom the charge of defending the countrie cheefelie in the kings
absence apperteined, called togither the Nobles and gentlemen of the shire and parties adioining,
whom with so pithie and effectuall words he exhorted to resist the attempts of the Scots (whose
cruell dooings could kéepe no measure) that incontinentlie all the power of the northparts
was raised, [Sidenote: Sim. Dunel. Capteines of the armie.] and (vnder the leading of William
earle of Albermarle, Walter Espeke, William Peuerell of Nottingham, and two of the Lacies,
Walter and Gilbert) offered euen with perill of life and limme to trie the matter against the
Scots in a pight field, and either to driue them out of the countrie, or else to loose their
liues in the quarel of their prince.

It chanced at this time, that archbishop Thurstan was sicke, and therefore could not come into
the field himselfe, [Sidenote: Rafe bish. of Durham supplieth the roome of the archbishop.]
but yet he sent Rafe bishop of Durham to supplie his roome, who though he saw and perceiued
that euerie man was readie enough to encounter with their enimies; yet he thought good to vse
some exhortation vnto them the better to encourage them, in maner as here ensueth.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Sim. Dun.] "Most noble Englishmen, and ye right valient Normans, of
whose courage the Frenchman is afraid, by you England is kept vnder, by you Apulia dooth flourish,
and vnto you Jerusalem and Antioch haue yéelded their subjection. We haue at this present the
rebellious nation of Scotland (which of right ought to be subiect to the crowne of England)
come into the field against vs, thinking for euermore to rid themselues of their submission,
and to bring both vs and our countrie into their bondage and thraldome. Now albeit I see in
you courage sufficient, to beat them backe from any further attempt; yet least when you shall
come to the triall, by any manner of chance, you should loose any péece thereof, I lamenting
the state of my countrie (whose gréeuances I wish you should redresse) doo meane to vse a few
words vnto you, not for that I would exhort you to doo any man wrong, but rather to beat them
backe which offer to doo you iniurie. Consider therefore that you shall here fight with that
enimie, whom you haue oftentimes vanquished, and oftentimes offending in periurie, haue oftentimes
most worthilie punished: whome also (to be bréefe) raging after the maner of cruell robbers,
wickedlie spoiling churches, and taking awaie our goods, you did latelie constreine to lurke
in desert places and corners out of sight. Against this enimie (I say) therefore worthie of
reuengement for his so manifold outrages, shew yourselues valiant, and with manlie stomaches
driue him out of our confines. For as far as I can perceiue, the victorie is yours, God surelie
will aid you, who cannot longer abide the sinnes of this people. Wherefore he that looseth
his life in so iust a quarell (according to the saieng of our sauiour) shall find it. Let not
their rash and presumptuous boldnesse make you afraid, sith so manie tokens of your approoued
valiancie cannot cause them to stand in doubt of you. You are clad in armour, and so appointed
with helmet, curase, greiues, and target, that the enimie knoweth not were to strike and hurt
you. Then sith you shall haue to doo with naked men, and such as vse not to weare any armour
at all, but more méet for brablers and ale-house quarrellers than men of warre vsed to the
field: what should you stand in doubt of? Their huge number is not able to stand against your
skilfull order and practised knowledge in all warlike feats and martiall discipline. A rude
multitude is but a let, rather than a furtherance to atchiue the victorie. A small number of
your worthie elders haue oftentimes vanquished great multitudes of enimies." As the bishop
was thus speaking to the English armie, and before he grew to an end of his exhortation, the
Scots approched with their battels, & first certeine of their bands of horssemen were sent
afore, to take the higher ground: [Sidenote: The Englishmen set vpon the Scots.] which when
the Englishmen perceiued, they staied not till the enimies should begin the battell, but straightwaies
caused their trumpets to sound, and so giue the onset.

The Scots were as readie to encounter with them, so that the battell began to be verie hot,
and euen at the first out flew the arrows, and then the footmen ioined, who fought most fiercelie
on both sides. [Sidenote: The Scots of Lodian disorder the Englishmen. Simon Dun. Matth. Paris.]
Herewith a wing of them of Lodian, which were in the Scotish vauntgard, brake in vpon the vauntgard
of the English: but yet closing togither againe, they kept out the enimies, and casting about
with a wing, compassed the Scotish horssemen round about, and panching their horsses, they
slue a great number, and constreined the residue to retire. Which thing when their felowes
in the other wing saw, their hearts began to faint, and by and by betooke them to their heeles.

The rumor of this flight being notified to the maine battell of the Scotish men, where king
Dauid himselfe was fighting with his enimies, discomfited them also, in such wise, [Sidenote:
The Scots put to flight.] that they in like began to shrinke backe: first by parts, and after
by heapes togither. The king did what he could to staie them: but the English pressed so vpon
them, that there was no recouerie. Wherefore he himselfe was glad in the end to beare his men
companie, in séeking to saue himselfe by flight, and make such shift as he could amongst the
residue.

[Sidenote: Henrie earle of Huntington his valiancie.] His sonne Henrie the earle of Huntington
more regarding his honour, than the danger of life, neither mooued with the flight of his father,
nor the ouerthrow of the other, came in amongst his men, being readie to turne their backes,
and with bold countenance spake these or the like words vnto them, as the shortnesse of the
time would permit. "Whither go you good fellowes? Here shall you find armour and force, neither
shall you, whilest life remaineth in your capteine (whom ye ought to follow) depart without
the victorie. Therefore choose whether yee had rather trie the matter with the enimies by battell,
or to be put to a shamefull death at home after your returns thither." The Scots mooued with
these vehement words of their valiant capteine, recoiled vpon their enimies, and began to make
hauocke of them: but being no great number, and beset with the English footmen before, and
the horssemen behind, they were shortlie brought to distresse, and for the more part either
taken or slaine.

[Sidenote: Polydor. Hen. Hunt. The number. Simon Dun. Matth. Paris. Wil. Paru. Polydor.] At
length earle Henrie perceiuing how the matter went, and that there was no hope left of recouerie,
fled also with those that could escape, bitterlie cursing the frowardnesse of fortune, and
mishap of that daies chance. The number of them that were killed at this battell was aboue
ten thousand. In which number there were not manie of the English: but yet among other, Walter
Lacie the brother of Gilbert Lacie, one of their cheefe capteines is remembered to be one.
This battell was fought in the moneth of August, in the fourth of king Stephan, who hearing
of this victorie, greatlie reioised, and gaue infinite commendations to his subiects (the Englishmen
and the Normans) but principallie praised archbishop Thurstan and the bishop of Durham for
their faithfull and diligent seruice shewed in this behalfe.

On the other side he himselfe vsing the like good successe amongst the rebels at home, ouercame
them, and chased them out of the land. [Sidenote: Ran. Higd. Castels recouered by king Stephan.]
For in this meane time he had taken the castels of Hereford, Glocester, Webbeley, Bristowe,
Dudley, and Shrewesburie. Likewise Robert earle of Glocester not being able to resist the king
thus preuailing against his aduersaries on ech hand, fled into France vnto his sister the empresse.
[Sidenote: N. Triuet. Simon Dun. Matth. Paris.] After this, about Aduent, the popes legat one
Alberike bishop of Hostia, held a synod at London, within Paules church, where by the kings
consent, [Sidenote: Theobald archbishop of Canturburie.] Theobald abbat of Bechellouin was
consecrated archbishop of Canturburie, being the 37. archbishop which had ruled that see, after
Augustine the moonke.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 5. 1140.] The king hauing now accomplished his purpose, taken the castell
of Leides, and brought the state of the realme to a meetlie good staie, thought it expedient
after the late ouerthrow giuen to the Scots, to pursue the victorie, and vtterlie to subdue
them with all expedition. [Sidenote: Polydor. Matth. Paris. K. Stephan inuadeth Scotland.]
He brought his armie therefore into Scotland, first wasting and spoiling the countrie, and
afterward preparing to fight with such Scots as came foorth to defend their goods and houses.
K. Dauid perceiuing himselfe to be too weake, made sute to the king for peace, which with much
difficultie he obteined at length, [Sidenote: A peace concluded betwéene the two kings of England
and Scotland.] by deliuering his sonne Henrie vnto king Stephan in pledge for the sure performance
of couenants concluded vpon betwixt them. Herevpon king Stephan hauing thus ended his businesse
in Scotland, returned into England: and after directing his iornie towards Wales, he came to
Ludlow: [Sidenote: Ludlow wun.] which towne (being held by his aduersaries) he wan yer long
out of their hands.

After this he went to Oxenford, where whilest he remained, a great brute was spred abroad,
that the empresse was comming with hir brother, the earle of Glocester: which caused him to
put the lesse trust in his people from thenceforth, in so much that he began to repent himselfe
(although too late) for that he, had granted licence to so manie of his subiects to build castels
within their owne grounds. [Sidenote: Roger bishop of Salisburie. Alexander B. of Lincolne.
Wil. Malm.] For he had them all in suspicion: and amongst other, he vehementlie suspected Roger
bishop of Salisburie (who had doone verie much for him) and Alexander bishop of Lincolne nephue
to the said bishop of Salisburie, or (as some thought) more néere to him in kindred than his
nephue, I meane, his sonne. [Sidenote: Castels built by the bishop of Salisburie.] For the
said Roger had builded diuerse castels, as at Shierborne, at the Uies, and at Malmesburie.
The said Alexander likewise following his vncles example, bestowed his monie that way verie
fréelie, hauing builded one castell at Newarke, and another at Sléeford.

[Sidenote: Simon Dun. Newarke castel built by the bishop of Lincolne.] The king therefore hauing
committed both these bishops to prison, [Sidenote: The B. of Elie banished.] and furthermore
sent Nigell or Neill the bishop of Elie into exile (which Nigell was nephue also to the foresaid
bishop of Salisburie) he threatened to keepe them without either meate or drinke, if they would
not cause these castels to be deliuered into his hands, whereby he obteined them, and moreouer
found in the bishop of Salisburies cofers 40. thousand marks, which he tooke to his owne vse,
by way of confiscation for his disloiall demeanor. [Sidenote: The bishop of Salisburie dieth
of thought. Wil. Malm. In nouella historia.] This ingratitude of the king wounded the bishops
hart, insomuch that taking thought for the losse of his houses and monie, he pined awaie, and
died within a while after.

The quarrell which was first picked at these bishops, rose by occasion of a fraie betwixt the
bishops men and the seruants of Alaine duke of Britaine, about the taking vp of Innes at their
comming to Oxenford. In which fraie one of the dukes men was killed, his nephue almost slaine,
and the residue of his folkes sore beaten and chased. Herevpon were the bishops first committed
to ward, and afterward handled at the kings pleasure, as partlie ye haue heard.

[Sidenote: Fortunes inconstancie. Wil. Paru.] ¶ Héere by the way, good
reader, thou hast one example worthie to be marked of fickle fortunes
inconstancie, whereof the poet speaketh verie excellentlie;
    [Sidenote: M. Pal. in suo scor.]
    ---- variat semper fortuna tenorem,
    Diuerso gaudens mortalia voluere casu,
    Nam qui scire velit, cur hunc fortuna vel illum
    Aut premat aut sursum tollat, nimis ardua quærit:
    Terrarum sequidem est illi concessa potestas
    Maxima, & huic illam præfecit Iuppiter orbi.

For this Roger bishop of Salisburie, was in the daies of William Rufus a poore préest, seruing
a cure in a village néere the citie of Caen in Normandie. Now it chanced, that the lord Henrie
the kings brother came thither on a time, and called for a préest to say masse before him.
Whervpon this Roger comming to the altar, was by and by readie and quicke at it, and therewithall
had so speedilie made an end thereof, that the men of warre then attendant on the said lord
Henrie, affirmed that this préest aboue all other, was a chapleine meet to say masse before
men of warre, bicause he had made an end when manie thought he had but newlie begun. Herevpon
the kings brother commanded the preest to follow him, insomuch that when oportunitie serued,
for his diligent seruice, and readie dispatch of matters, when Henrie had atteined the crowne,
he was by him aduanced to great promotions: [Sidenote: The bishop of Salisburie made lord chancelour.]
as first to be Chancelour of England, & after bishop of Salisburie, growing still into such
estimation, that he might doo more with the king than any other of the councell.

But to returne to king Stephan, who after he had thus imprisoned the aforesaid bishops, manned
those castles which he tooke from them with his owne soldiers, in like maner as he had doone
all the rest which he had taken from the rebels, that he might the better withstand the empresse
and hir sonne, whose comming he euer feared. He began also to shew himselfe cruell towards
all men, and namelie against those that had chieflie furthered his title to the obteining of
the crowne. ¶ This (as manie tooke it) came to passe by the prouidence of almightie God, that
those should suffer for their periuries, which contrarie to law and right had consented to
crowne him king.

[Sidenote: K. Stephan doubts whom to trust.] In déed he wist not well whom he might trust,
for he stood in doubt of all men, bicause he was aduertised by credible report, that the empresse
sought for aid on all sides, meaning verie shortlie to come into England. For this cause also
he thought good to procure the fréendship of Lewes king of France, which he brought to passe,
[Sidenote: He cōtracteth affinitie with the French king.] by concluding a mariage betwéene
his sonne Eustace and the ladie Constance sister to the said Lewes. But within a few yeares
after, this Eustace died, and then was Constance maried to Raimond earle of Tholouse.

[Sidenote: Wil. Malm. Polydor. Matth. Paris. Alberike de Uéer pleadeth the kings cause.] In
the meane time, namelie on the first daie of September, a councell was holden at Winchester,
wherein earle Alberike de Ueer pleaded with great eloquence the kings case, in excuse of his
fault for imprisoning the bishops, which was sore laid to his charge by his owne brother the
bishop of Winchester, being also the popes legat: who (togither with the archbishop of Canturburie
and other bishops) had called this councell for that purpose. Howbeit they got nothing of the
king but faire words, and promises of amendment in that which had béene doone otherwise than
equitie required which promises were vtterlie vnperformed, and so the councell brake vp.

[Sidenote: The empresse landed here in England.] In the moneth of Iulie the empresse Maud landed
here in England at Portesmouth, & went strait to Arundell, which towne (togither with the countie
of Sussex) hir mother in law Adelicia king Henries second wife, wedded to William de Albenay,
held in right of assignation for hir dower. There came in with the empresse hir brother Robert
and Hugh Bigot, of whom ye haue heard before.

[Sidenote: What power she brought with hir.] Some write that the empresse brought with hir
a great armie, to the intent that ioining with Ranulph earle of Chester (who tooke part with
Robert erle of Glocester, bicause the same Rob. had maried his daughter) she might fight with
king Stephan, and trie the battell with him. [Sidenote: Wil. Malm. Polydor.] Other declare
that she came to England now at the first, but with a small power (as seuen score horssemen
or men of armes as we may call them) in hope of Gods assurance (who seldome faileth those that
fight in a rightfull cause) and againe vpon trust of aid of freends, who for the benefits receiued
at hir fathers hands, would be readie to go against king Stephan. Wherevpon hir brother earle
Robert leauing his sister in the castle of Arundell, rode with all spéed vnto Glocester thorough
his enimies countrie, not taking with him past 12. men of armes, and as manie archers on horssebacke,
that vpon his cōming thither he might leuie an armie with so much speed as was possible. [Sidenote:
Earle Robert commeth to Glocester.] Now when he came to Glocester, though the citie was kept
with a garison of soldiours placed there by king Stephan, yet the townesmen, after they heard
that their earle was approched to the gates, they droue out the garison, & receiued him into
the towne, where he remained a time, partlie to assemble an armie, and partlie to practise
with other townes and castels thereabouts, to reuolt vnto his sister. [Sidenote: Matt. Paris.
Brian the earle of Glocesters sonne. Miles earle of Hereford.] Amongst all other, the earles
sonne Brian, and Miles of Glocester were right ioifull of the news of the empresses arriuall,
and gladlie prepared themselues to fight in defense of hir cause.

[Sidenote: Polydor. The empresse besieged in Arundell castel.] In the meane time king Stephan,
hauing knowledge of the landing of the empresse, and other his enimies, came strait to Arundell,
where he besieged hir in the castle, and spent his labour certeine daies in vaine about the
winning of it. Howbeit at that present he did not preuaile, for there were certeine with him,
who in fauour of the empresse bare him in hand, that it was not possible to win that fortresse,
and therefore aduised him to raise his siege, and suffer the empresse to be at libertie to
go to some other place, where he might with more ease and lesse damage get hir into his hands.
[Sidenote: The king raiseth his siege.] The king not perceiuing the drift of those secret practisers,
followed their counsell. Wherevpon the empresse being now at libertie, went from place to place
to trie and solicit hir fréends: and as a riuer increaseth in the passage, so the further the
ladie went, the more hir power increased. About the midst of the next night after the siege
was raised, she departed out of the castle, [Sidenote: The empresse goeth to Bristow.] and
with great iournies sped hir towards Bristow; which was alreadie reuolted to hir side.

These things being thus bruted abroad, the Peeres of the realme resorted to hir, as they that
well remembred how in time past by oth of allegiance they were suerlie bound to hir and hir
issue. [Sidenote: K. Stephen besiegeth Wallingford.] The king in the meantime besieged the
castle of Wallingford, but after he vnderstood that the empresse was gotten to Bristow, repenting
himselfe for his light credit giuen to euill counsell, he left off the siege of Wallingford,
and drew towards Bristow, that he might (if it were possible) inclose his aduersaries within
that walled citie. But the empresse, being aduertised of his determination (by such of hir
fréends as were resident about him) first went to Glocester, and after to Lincolne, where she
prouided vittailes and all other things necessarie for hir armie and defense: purposing to
remaine in that citie, till the matter were either tried by chance of warre betwixt hir and
king Stephen, or that by the peoples helpe reuolting to hir side, he might be driuen out of
the realme, and she restored to the whole gouernement. [Sidenote: An. Reg. 6. 1141.] The king
followed hir verie earnestlie, and comming vnto Lincolne besieged it, assaieng on euerie side
which waie he might best find meanes to win it, & enter into the same. [Sidenote: K. Stephen
winneth Lincolne, Ran. Higd. Simon Dun. Polydor. N. Triuet.] At length the empresse found shift
to escape from thence, and within a little while the king got possession of the citie. But
shortlie after, Robert earle of Glocester, and Ranulph earle of Chester, Hugh Bigot, and Robert
of Morley assembling their power, aswell of Welshmen as others, to come to the succour of those
that were thus besieged, came to Lincolne, & pitching downe their tents néere to the enimies,
they rested the first night without making any great attempt.

[Sidenote: The ordering of the kings armie readie to giue battell. Simon Dun. Matt. Paris.]
In the morning being the second daie of Februarie, so soone as it was daie, they set their
men in order of battell, and brought them foorth in sight of the king and his host: who were
on the other side, not meaning to refuse the conflict, ordered his men readie to encounter
them, whome he diuided into 3. seuerall battels. The chiefest part of his armed men he appointed
to remaine on foot, amongst whom he placed himselfe, with certeine noble men, as earle Baldwin,
and others. The residue being horssemen, he disposed into two seuerall wings, [Sidenote: The
earles of Norfolke, Hampton, Mellent, & Waren.] in one of which were Alaine duke of Britaine,
Hugh Bigot earle of Norfolke, Simon earle of Hampton, and two other earles, Mellent and Waren:
Howbeit they were not furnished with such number of men as had béene requisit; for as it fell
out, they brought no great retinues with them. [Sidenote: The earle of Albermarle, William
de Ypres.] The other wing was gouerned by the earle of Albemarle, and William de Ypres.

[Sidenote: The ordering of the battels on the kings aduersaries part.] Now on the aduersaries
side, the earle of Chester led the fore ward, and those whome king Stephan had disherited,
were placed in the middle ward. In the rere ward the earle of Glocester with his companie had
the rule. And besides those thrée battels, the Welshmen were set as a wing at one of the sides.

Here the earle of Chester (to vtter the good will which he had to fight) appointed in faire
armour as he was, [Sidenote: The oration of the earle of Chester. Ran. Higd.] spake these words
in effect as followeth, directing the same to the earle of Glocester, and other the capteines,
saieng: "I giue you hartie thanks, most inuincible chiefteine, and you my fellow soldiers,
which declare your hartie good wils towards me, euen to the ieoparding of your liues at this
my request and instance. Sith then I am the occasion of your perill, it is conuenient that
I make the first entrance, and giue the onset of the battell vpon that most disloiall king,
who granting a truce, hath broken the peace; and swearing to be a subiect, is now prooued a
most wicked vsurper: I therefore trusting both vpon reuenge of the vniust dealings of this
king, and also vpon mine owne force and courage, shall straitwaies breake in sunder the arraie
of his armie, and make waie through the middest of the enimies with sword in hand. It shall
be your parts then to follow me, who will lead you the waie: for euen now my mind giueth me,
that I shall passe thorough the battels, tread the capteines vnder foot, and run the king through
with this my sharpe sword."

[Sidenote: The earle of Glocesters answer to the earle of Chesters oration.] When he had thus
ended, the earle of Glocester answered in this wise: "It is not against reason that you should
require the honor of the first onset, both for the nobilitie of your house, and also in respect
of the prowesse wherein you excell: but yet if you stand vpon nobilitie, for my part, being
the sonne and nephue of a king, ought not I to be preferred? If vpon valiance, here are manie
verie worthie men, afore whom there is not one aliue that may chalenge any prerogatiue. But
another reason moueth me most chieflie to be the formost. The king, who contrarie to his oth
made to my sister, hath cruellie vsurped the kingdoms, and setting all in trouble, hath beene
the cause of manie thousand mens deaths, and distributed lands and liuings to such as haue
no right to the same, which he hath violentlie taken from the rightfull owners, who are quite
disherited. This king (I saie) is first to be assailed with the assistance of the righteous
iudge, who prepareth punishment for wicked dooers. For almightie God, who iudgeth his people
with equitie, will looke downe from his heauenlie habitation, and will not leaue vs comfortlesse
in this so great a necessitie. One thing there is, most valiant capteines, and all you right
hardie souldiers, which I would haue you to consider, that through the fennes, which much adoo
you haue passed, there is no waie to escape by flight. [Sidenote: The necessitie to fight valientlie.]
Here must we either vanquish the enimies, or else die in the field: for no hope of safegard
remaineth in fléeing awaie. This onelie resteth (I saie) that you make waie for you to enter
the citie with force of your weapons. If I be not deceiued in that which my mind giueth me
to coniecture, the lacke of meanes to escape, otherwise than by shewing your selues valiant
men, by Gods helpe will bring vs the victorie. For he must néeds plaie the man, who hath not
other succor to auoid the danger of destruction The citizens of Lincolne, who shall fight so
néere their houses as you shall sée, will not staie long to get them thither for their refuge.
And herewith consider and weie (I beseech you) against whom you shall match in this battell.
[Sidenote: Alaine duke of Brittanie.] There is Alane duke of Britaine, who commeth armed against
you, yea rather against God, a wicked person, and spotted with all kind of filthinesse; who
in malice hath no péere, as one that neuer wanted desire to doo mischéefe and who to be comparable
in crueltie, would iudge it a great reproch. [Sidenote: The earle of Mellent.] There commeth
also the earle of Mellent, a man full of all guile and deceit, in whose hart iniquitie is rooted,
and nothing sounding in his mouth but vnthankfulnesse; besides this, he is slothfull in déeds,
presumptuous in words, not hastie to fight, but swift to run awaie. [Sidenote: Earle Hugh.]
Then commeth earle Hugh, who hath not thought it sufficient to breake his oth to my sister
the empresse, but he must commit periurie the second time, in aduouching (vpon a new oth) that
king Henrie granted the kingdome to Stephan, and disabled his daughter. After him marcheth
the earle of Albemarle, a man of singular constancie in euill, verie readie to attempt and
loth to giue ouer a mischeefe: [Sidenote: The earle of Albermerles wife.] whose wife, through
irkesomnes of his filthie behauiour is gone from him; & he that keepeth hir, cōmeth with him
also against vs, an open adulterer, & one well esteemed of Bacchus, but nothing acquainted
with Mars. [Sidenote: Simon earle of Hampton.] Then setteth foorth Simon earle of Hampton,
whose déeds consist in words, & whose gifts rest in promises. For when he hath said, he hath
doone; & when he hath promised, ye get no more. Finallie there come togither a knot of Péeres
& Noble men, [Like maister, like seruants.] like to their king and maister, accustomed to robberies,
enriched with rapines, embrued with manslaughters, & defamed with periurie. You therefore (most
valiant capteins & hardie souldiers) whom king Henrie hath aduanced, and this man hath brought
vnder foot; whom he made wealthie, and this man hath impouerished; vpon trust of your worthy
valiancie, yea rather vpon trust of Gods iustice seeke your reuenge thus offered by God vpon
these wicked wretches, & with manlie stomachs vow to go forward, & forswere stepping back."
When the earle had made an end, all the armie (lifting vp their hands to Gods) abiured all
intention to flée, and so made themselues readie to set forward.

King Stephan hauing no pleasant voice of himselfe, appointed earle Baldwin to giue an exhortation
to his armie, wherevpon getting himselfe to an high place where he might be seene & heard of
them, he thus began. [Sidenote: Earle Baldwin his oration on the behalfe of king Stephan.]
"All such as shall giue battell, ought to foresée thrée things: [Sidenote: Thrée things to
be foreséene by them that shall giue battell.] first, that their cause be righteous: secondlie,
the number of their men to be equall at the least: and thirdlie, the goodnesse and sufficiencie
of them. The righteousnes of their cause ought to be regarded, least men runne in danger of
the soule; the number of men is to be respected, least they should be oppressed with multitude
of enimies; and the goodnesse of the soldiers is to be considered, least trusting in the multitude,
they should presume vpon the aid of feeble persons, & such as are of small valure. In all these
points we see our selues sufficientlie furnished. The iustice of our cause is this: that obseruing
the thing which we vowed to our king before God, we stand to the same against those that haue
falsified their faith, euen to the perill of death. Our number is not much lesse in horssemen,
and in footmen we excéed them. As for the goodnesse or sufficiencie of our men, who is able
to expresse the noble prowesse of so manie earles, of so manie lords and soldiers, trained
vp euer in warres: The passing valiancie of our king may stand in place of innumerable souldiers.
Sith then he being the lords annointed, is here amongst you, vnto whom ye haue vowed allegiance,
performe your vow. For the more earnestly and faithfully ye serue your prince in this battell,
which you are readie to fight against periured persons, the more shall your reward be at the
hands of God and him. Therfore be of good comfort, & haue in remembrance against whom you doo
darraine the battell. [Sidenote: Erle Robert.] The force of erle Robert is well knowne, his
maner is to threaten much, & to worke little, furious in words, eloquent of speach, but cold
or rather dead harted in déeds. [Sidenote: The earle of Chester.] The earle of Chester what
is he? A man of vnreasonable boldnesse, bent to conspiracie, inconstant to performe that which
he rashlie taketh in hand, readie to run into batell, vncircumspect in danger, practising things
of great importance, séeking after things vnpossible, bringing with him few good soldiers,
but gathering a vagrant rout of rascals. There is nothing in him that we ought to be afraid
of, for looke whatsoeuer he attempteth manfullie, the same he giueth ouer womanlie, in all
his dooings vnfortunate, in all encounters either he is ouercome and fléeth awaie, or if he
get the vpper hand (which seldome times chanceth) he susteineth greater losse than they whom
he dooth vanquish.

"The Welshmen, whom he bringeth with him are little estéemed of vs, who pretend a naked rashnesse
without any vse of armor, so that as men without any knowledge of martiall policie, they fall
as brute beasts vpon the hunters iaueline. The other, as well the nobles as the common souldiers
are but runnagates and vagabounds; of whom I would wish the number greater than it is: for
the more they be, the woorse in effect their seruice shall prooue in time of need. You therefore
(most worthie cheefetaines) you men of honor, it standeth you vpon to haue in regard your vertue
and dignities. This day aduance your renowme, and follow the foresteps of your famous ancestors,
leaue to your sonnes an euerlasting commendation. [Sidenote: Continuall good successe a prouocation
of boldnesse.] The continuall successe of victorie ought to be a prouocation vnto you to doo
manfullie: the continuance of euil speed may be to yonder side an occasion to run away. For
euen alreadie (I dare say) they repent them of their comming hither, and could be contented
to be gone, if the nature of the place would suffer them to depart. Then sith it is not possible
for them either to fight or to flée, what other thing can they doo, but (as appointed by Gods
ordinance) offer themselues and all they haue about them presentlie vnto vs. Yée sée then their
horsses, their armour, and their bodies readie here at your pleasure, lift vp your hearts therefore,
and reach your hands to take that with great chearefulnesse of mind, which the Lord hath thus
offered and freelie presented vnto you."

Now yer he had all made an end of his words, the batels were readie to ioine, they met with
great noise of trumpets and other instruments, and the fight began with a verie sore and cruell
slaughter. [Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Hen. Hunt.] Hard it was in the beginning to gesse who should
haue the better. The wing of the disherited men ouerthrew and bare downe their aduersaries,
which were led by the duke of Britain, and the forenamed earles. On the contrarie part, the
earle of Albemarle and William de Ypres put the Welshmen to flight, but by the earle of Chester
and his retinue, the same earle and William de Ypres were fiercelie assailed afresh, and put
out of order. [Sidenote: W. Paru. Hen. Hunt.] Thus was the kings side put to the worse, namelie
his horssemen, who being placed in the forefront, and there ouermatched, fell to galoping.
Which thing when the king beheld, he was not yet any whit therewith abashed, but like an hardie
captein (as he was no lesse indéed) comforted his footmen whom he had about him, and rushing
vpon his enimies, [Sidenote: Polydor.] bare them down, and ouerthrew so manie as stood before
him, so that with the point of his weapon he made himselfe waie. His footmen, who were but
a few in number to the multitude of his enimies, counteruailed in all points the prowes and
manlike dooings of their king and capteine, insomuch that few battels had beene better fought,
nor with greater slaughter on both sides, if the kings fore ward (which in maner at the first
shranke backe and was disordered, not without some supicion of treason) had staied the brunt
of the enimies a while, as it had béene requisite. At length the king encountring with the
earle of Chester, being ouercharged with multitude, was taken prisoner by one William de Cahames.

[Sidenote: Simon Dun. Hen. Hunt.] Earle Baldwine, who had made the oration in the kings behalfe,
was also taken, after he had fought valiantlie and receiued manie sore wounds: likewise Richard
Fitzvrse, who on that daie had shewed good proofe of his manhood, [Sidenote: Matth. Paris.]
and had giuen and received manie a sore stripe. To conclude, all those that abode with the
king, [Sidenote: W. Paru.] and namelie all the footmen were taken prisoners, those which were
slaine in the place excepted. This battell was fought in the sixt yeare of king Stephans reigne,
vpon Candlemas daie, being sundaie, as Niger saith.

[Sidenote: Polydor. The king led to Bristow.] The king being apprehended and brought to the
empresse lieng at Glocester, was commanded by hir to be conueied in safetie vnto Bristow, where
he was kept as prisoner from that time of his taking, vntill the feast of All saints next ensuing.
[Sidenote: W. Paru.] Not long after this field fought, as ye haue heard, Geffrey earle of Aniou
husband to the empresse, receiuing aduertisement of this victorie atchiued in England, foorthwith
inuaded Normandie, inducing all the Nobles of the countrie to incline vnto him: for by publishing
the captiuitie of king Stephan, it was easie for him to come by the possession of the same.

[Sidenote: The king of Scots taketh Northumberland into his possession. Polydor. The empresse
foloweth the victorie.] Moreouer, Dauid king of Scotland entred into Northumberland, and by
commandement of the empresse tooke the countrie into his hands, whilest she (like a woman of
great wisedome, as she was no lesse indéed) iudging that it stood hir vpon to vse the victorie
which fell to hir lot, slept not hir businesse, but went forward, and setting from Glocester,
she came to Winchester, where she was honorablie receiued of bishop Henrie, though he was king
Stephans brother, and inwardlie lamented the misfortune of the king. Then came she backe againe
to Wilton, and so to Oxenford, from thence to Reading, and then to S. Albons, into all which
cities and townes she was receiued with great triumph and honour.

[Sidenote: Shée cōmeth to London.] Hauing thus passed through all the south parts of the realme
on that side, she finallie came to London, where the citizens welcomed hir in most ioifull
and hartie maner. Now being come to London, and consulting with those of hir councell for the
quieting of the whole state of the realme, [Sidenote: The quéene sueth to the empresse for
the deliuerie of hir husband.] queene Maud wife to king Stephan (for so she was also called)
made humble suit vnto hir to haue hir husband set at libertie, promising that he should resigne
his whole claime and title into hir hands, and content himselfe with a priuate life. But hir
suit was so farre off from being granted, that she was reiected and cast off with reprochfull
words. Wherevpon she conceiued a most high displeasure, and vnderstood well inough; that peace
was to be purchased by force of armes onelie, and not by any other meanes: insomuch that with
all diligence she sent to hir sonne Eustace (then being in Kent) & willed him to prepare an
armie, which he did most spéedilie.

It chanced at the same time that the citizens of London made great and
laborious suit vnto the said empresse, that they might haue the lawes of
king Edward the Confessour restored, and the straight lawes of hir
father king Henrie abolished. But for so much as they could get no grant
of their petition, and perceiued the empresse to be displeased with them
about that importunat request, wherein onelie she ouershot hir selfe,
[Sidenote: The Londoners conspire to take the empresse.] they deuised
how and by what meanes they might take hir prisoner, knowing that all
the Kentishmen would helpe to strengthen[3] them in their enterprise.
But reckoning with hir selfe that
    Nil poterit propera tutius esse fuga,
[Sidenote: Shée fled in the night time out of the citie.] And being
warned thereof, she fled by night out of the citie, and went to
Oxenford, determining to be reuenged vpon hir aduersaries when time
should serue hir turne. Herewith she began to wax more displeased both
against those Nobles whom she kept in prison, & other also whom she
troubled, but namelie king Stephan, whom she commanded to be loden with
yrons, and serued with verie slender diet.

[Sidenote: N. Triuet.] Now when she had thus fled out of London, which was about the feast
of the natiuitie of S. John Baptist, the tower of London was besieged, [Sidenote: Geffrey de
Mandeuile.] which Geffrey de Mandeuile held, and valiantlie defended. The same Geffrey rushing
out on a time, came to Fulham, [Sidenote: The bishop of Londō taken.] where he tooke the bishop
of London then lodging in his manor place, being one of the contrarie faction.

[Sidenote: Polydor.] Henrie bishop of Winchester perceiuing the wrath of the empresse more
and more to increase dailie against hir people, thinking it wisedome to serue the time, manned
all the castels which he had builded within his dioces; [Sidenote: Castells fortified by the
bishop of Winchester.] as at Waltham, Farnham, and other places and withdrew himselfe into
the castell of Winchester, there to remaine, till he might sée to what end the furie of the
woman would grow. This being knowne, the empresse tooke vnto hir Dauid king of Scotland that
was hir vncle, who immediatlie ioining their armies togither, went to Winchester and besieged
the castell. In the meane time the quéene and hir sonne Eustace, with the helpe of their freends,
as the Kentishmen, the Londoners and other had assembled a great armie, [Sidenote: William
de Ypresse. Ia. Meir.] and appointed the gouernement and generall conduct thereof vnto one
William of Ypres a Fleming, who for his valiancie was by king Stephan created earle of Kent:
he was sonne to Philip of Flanders, begotten of a concubine, his father also was sonne to Robert
earle of Flanders, surnamed Frisius. This William was banished out of his countrie by Theodorike
Elsas earle of Flanders, bicause he attempted to bereaue him of his earledome.

[Sidenote: Wil. Malm. In nouella historia. N. Triuet. Sim. Dun. Polydor. The empresse armie
put to flight. Wil. Malm. Robert earle of Glocester taken prisoner. Matth. Paris.] The quéenes
armie thus committed to his guiding, came néere vnto Winchester, and kept the empresse and
hir people in maner besieged: at length perceiuing the aduantage after the comming of a great
supplie of Londoners to their aid, they set vpon hir armie as the same was departing, with
such violence, that straightwaies hir host was put to flight and discomfited. The empresse
was glad to faine hir selfe dead, and so to be conueied in a coch as a dead corps vnto Glocester.
Hir brother Robert with manie other of the Nobles that staied behind, till she and other might
get out of danger, were taken prisoners. And bicause the king was kept at Bristow vnder the
custodie of the said Robert, the queene caused him to be hardlie handled, that he might prooue
the words of the gospell true: "With what measure yée meat vnto other, with the same by other
shall it be remeasured vnto you." He had deserued verie euill of the king heretofore, and therefore
it was now remembred. He was taken (in maner abouesaid) on the feast day of the exaltation
of the crosse.

[Sidenote: Wil. Paruus. N. Triuet. Dauid king of Scots retired home. Simon Dun. R. Houe. Alberike
de Uéer slaine. Wil. Malm. Polydor.] Dauid king of Scotland was not at the battell himselfe,
but hearing of the discomfiture, got him out of the countrie, and by helpe of trustie guides
returned into Scotland, whilest Alberike de Uéer was slaine at London in a seditious tumult
raised by the citizens. The kingdome being thus diuided into two seueral factions, was by all
similitudes like to come to vtter ruine: for the people kindled in hatred one against another,
sought nothing else but reuenge on both sides, and still the land was spoiled and wasted by
the men of warre which lodged within the castels and fortresses, and would often issue out
to harrie and spoile the countries. But now that the two cheefest heads were prisoners, there
was good hope conceiued that God had so wrought it, whereby might grow some ouerture of talke,
to quiet such troubles by fréendlie peace and agreement.

Herevpon those lords that wished well to the common-wealth, began to intreate betwixt them,
and articles were propounded for a concord to be had, and an exchange of prisoners on both
sides. But the empresse and hir brother would not hearken to any agréement, except that the
realme might wholie remaine to the said empresse. [Sidenote: Geruasius Dorober. The king and
the earle of Glocester deliuered by exchange.] Whereby the enimies were rather increased than
decreased by his treatie, so that at length the king and the earle (weried with tedious yrksomnesse
of yrons and hard imprisonment, and putting all their hope in the chance of war) about the
feast of All saints made by deliuering of the one for the other, without making mention of
any peace at all: and so kindled with new displeasures, they renewed the warre.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 7. 1142.] King Stephan being deliuered in such wise as you haue heard,
comming to London, and there being accompanied with his brother Henrie bishop of Winchester
(then the popes legat) Theobald archbishop of Canturburie, and others, [Sidenote: Geruasius
Dorobernensis. A parlement called.] he called a parlement, wherein the king declared the present
state, how the enimie was brought to this point, that if it would please the Nobles of the
realme to mainteine him with men & monie, he trusted now so to worke, as they should not need
to feare submission to the yoke of a womans gouernment: which at the first they seemed much
to mislike, and now sithens (to their great gréefe) had prooued to be intollerable. The summe
of his talke tended to this end, that those which were able of themselues to aid him with their
owne persons, should prepare them out of hand so to doo; and the residue that were not meet
(as bishops, and such like maner of men) should be contributors to aid him with hired souldiers,
armour, and monie.

This was gladlie agréed vpon, with the generall consent of all the assemblie. And bicause the
bishops shewed themselues verie liberall towards the aduancing of the kings purpose, [Sidenote:
A statute established in fauour of préests.] there was a statute made at the same parlement,
that who so euer did laie any violent hands on a sacred person, or else tooke vpon him to apprehend
any of them, for what fault soeuer, without the bishops licence, he should be accursed, and
not be assoiled of any maner of person, except of the pope, as by a canon it was alreadie decréed
but not obeied among the Englishmen till that daie. ¶ The cause of making this statute was
chéeflie, for that preests during the time of the ciuill wars, were dailie either slaine, or
taken prisoners, and so put to their ransoms, or charged with great penalties and gréeuous fines.

The bishop of Winchester at this councell also began an other brall among the cleargie, for
being brother to king Stephan, & armed with the popes authoritie as his legat in England, by
reason of exercising his authoritie, fell at variance with the bishop of Canturburie, who tooke
himselfe for his superior, bicause he was his primat. This quarell grew so far in question,
that they went both to Rome to haue the controuersie decided, and so bringing their sutes thither,
contented well the eares of them that had the hearing of the same: for the more weightie the
cause seemed, the better it liked them.

[Sidenote: Paul. Lang. in Chron. citizen. pag. 760.] ¶ A late writer,
noting in clergiemen of his age & countrie not onelie the aspiring vice
of ambition, but other disorders also, and monstrous outrages, after a
complaint made that gold (by which title he calleth those of the
ecclesiasticall order) is turned into drosse, and swéet wine become tart
vineger, concludeth with the illation of the cause hereof comprised in
this metricall accouplement, saieng:
    Dum factor rerum priuaret flamine clerum,
    Ad satanæ volum successit turba nepotum.

Which he inferred vpon occasion against the preposterous elections of vnmeet men into episcopall
sées, for that they were not so qualified as the dignitie of the place required; otherwise
peraduenture enabled with competent knowledge and learning. And suerlie, we may note these
inordinate affections from the beginning of this our chronicle in the best (I meane in respect
of their estates) of this liuerie, and may iustlie impute it to the defection of Gods spirit
in them, whose nature is to plant peace and méekenesse in the harts of his tenants, not discord,
not ambition, not the works of darknesse, which beséeme not the children of light. But to the
purpose.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Earle Robert passeth ouer into Normandie.] As the king began (after
his libertie obteined) to prouide for warres, so earle Robert (after he was discharged) sailed
ouer into Normandie, taking with him the sonnes of diuerse Noble men who fauored the empresse,
whome he deliuered to hir husband the earle of Aniou to be kept as pledges, & earnestlie besought
him to passe ouer into England with an armie to aid the empresse. [Sidenote: Normandie woone
by the earle of Aniou.] Howbeit bicause he was newlie intred into the conquest of Normandie,
and had alreadie won the most part thereof, he thought good to make first an end of his warres
there, hauing somewhat to doo against certeine rebels of his owne countie of Aniou, which did
not a little molest him. But he recouered (whilest the earle of Glocester was there with him)
Alney, Mortaigne, Tenerchbray, and diuerse other places perteining chieflie to the earle of
Mortaigne: about the same time also they of Constances submitted themselues vnto him. Thus
the earle of Aniou being occupied in those parties, could not well come into England.

[Sidenote: Wil. Malm. Earle of Glocester returneth.] Wherevpon the earle of Glocester came
backe againe himselfe, and bringing with him somewhat lesse than foure hundred men of armes
(imbarked in 52. ships) landed with the same at Warrham, and besieged the castell there, [Sidenote:
Ger. Dor.] which his enimies had won out of his hands whilest he was absent in Normandie. In
the end they that were within it (vnder the gouernment of Herebert de Lucy) fell to agreement
by composition, [Sidenote: Wil. Malm.] that if they were not succoured by a certeine time,
they should deliuer the castell vnto the earle. King Stephan himselfe the same time held a
siege before Oxford, within the which he had inclosed the empresse, as hereafter shall be shewed:
so that they within the castell of Warrham had no succour sent vnto them, and therefore (according
to the articles of their composition) they yeelded vp the hold, after erle Robert had lien
three wéekes before it.

[Sidenote: The ile of Portland. Circester.] This castell being thus woone, earle Robert subdued
also such as kept the ile of Portland, and had fensed it after the maner of a fortresse: afterwards
he came to Circester, and there assembled all those that fauoured the part of the empresse,
meaning with all conuenient spéed to go to Oxford, & there to giue battell to king Stephan,
if he would abide it. Who after his deliuerance from captiuitie, had assembled a great host
of men, [Sidenote: The empresse besieged in Oxford.] and comming to Oxford, where the empresse
then laie, suddenlie besieged hir, before she looked for him. And to the end also that he might
compell the townsmen to yeeld, or else kéepe them from entring which would come to their succors,
he ranged abroad into the countrie with part of his armie, wasting all afore him by fire &
sword. This siege continued almost two moneths, in maner from his deliuerie in the beginning
of Nouember, vntill Christmasse immediatlie following: in somuch that through lacke of vittels
they within the towne began to raise mutinies. The empresse therefore doubting the sequele,
and séeing hir prouision to decaie, deuised a shift how to escape that present danger, which
by force she was vnlikelie to performe.

[Sidenote: N. Triuet. Simon Dun. Wil. Paru. Ran. Higd. Matth. Paris. The empresse escapeth
out of Oxford. Polydor. Wil. Malm. Simon Dun. Matth. Paris. Brian sonne to the earle of Glocester.]
It was a verie hard winter that yeare, the Thames and other riuers thereabouts were frosen,
so that both man and horsse might safelie passe oner vpon the yce, the fields were also couered
with a thicke and déepe snow. Herevpon taking occasion, she clad hir selfe and all hir companie
in white apparell, that a far off they might not be discerned from the snow; and so by negligence
of the watch that kept ward but slenderlie, by reason of the excéeding cold weather, she and
hir partakers secretlie in the night issued out of the towne, and passing ouer the Thames,
came to Walingford, where she was receiued into the castell by those that had the same in kéeping
to hir vse: of whom Brian the sonne to the erle of Glocester was the chiefe.

¶ Here we may see the subtiltie of the empresse, whereby she obteined
frée and safe passage out of hir enimies hands, who otherwise had taken
hir in their net. [Sidenote: Aeneas Syluius.] So that it will be true,
that hath neuer béene false, which Æneas Syluius (and before him many
more driuing vpon the like argument) dooth saie in this distichon:
    Non audet stygius Pluto tentare, quod audent
      Effrænis monachus plenáque fraudis illa,

Meaning Mulier, a woman. And therefore looke what they want in magnanimitie, in strength, in
courage, the same is supplied by deceit, by circumuention, by craft, by fraud, by collusion;
sometimes applied to a good intent, but most commonlie directed to an euil meaning and purpose,
as the euents themselues doo manie times declare. But let vs sée what followed vpon this escape
of the empresse.

[Sidenote: Polydor. Simon Dun. N. Triuet.] After hir departure from Oxford, the townesmen yeelded
vnto the king, who hauing taken order for the kéeping of them in obedience, marched toward
Walingford, minding to besiege the castell there: but being encountred in the way by his enimies,
he was driuen backe, and so constreined to turne another waie. [Sidenote: An. Reg. 8. 1143]
Earle Robert hearing that his sister was escaped and gotten to Wallingford, hasted thither
with all spéed to visit hir: [Sidenote: The empress hir sonne lord Henrie.] & (as some write)
brought with him hir sonne the lord Henrie that was come with him from beyond the seas, to
sée his mother: so that the empresse now beholding both hir sonne and brother, receiued them
with all the ioy and honour that she could or might presentlie make them. Hir son remaining
vnder the gouernement of earle Robert, was then appointed by him to abide within the citie
of Bristow, & there continued for the space of 4. yéeres, being committed to one Matthew his
schoolemaister, to be instructed in knowledge, and trained vp in ciuill behauiour.

King Stephan (after the spoiling of sundrie churches, the robbing and burning of manie townes
and villages by the hands of his hired souldiers, who for the more part were Flemings) came
at length with his brother the bishop of Winchester stronglie armed vnto Wilton, [Sidenote:
The king commeth to Wilton.] where he tooke in hand to fortifie the nunrie in steed of a castell,
to resist the incursions and inrodes of them of Salisburie, who in the behalfe of the empresse
had doone manie displeasures vnto his fréends: but earle Robert vnderstanding of his dooings,
got a power togither with all speed, and the first daie of Julie about sunne setting came to
Wilton, and suddenlie set the towne on fire.

The king being lodged within the nunrie, and fearing no such matter, after he heard of the
sudden assemblie of his enimies, was put in such feare, that he tooke himselfe dishonourablie
to flight, leaning his men, his plate, and other riches altogither behind him. [Sidenote: Wil.
Par. Sim. Dun. M. Triuet. Matt. Paris.] The earles souldiers egerlie assailed the kings people,
killed and spoiled them at their pleasure, rifled the kings treasurie without resistance, and
satisfied themselues with greedines. In this broile was William Marcell or Martell taken prisoner
by earle Roberts men, & led to the castell of Wallingford, where Brian the earle of Glocesters
sonne hauing charge of that castell, kept him in close prison, and vsed him hardlie, who by
reason of the opinion which men had conceiued of his valiancie, could not be deliuered, till
he had paid 300. marks for his ransome, and deliuered the castell of Shirborne into the earles
hands. [Sidenote: Miles earle of Hereford deceased.] Within a few daies after, Miles earle
of Hereford departed this life, whose death was verie gréeuouslie taken of the empresse, for
he was one of hir chéefe fréends and councellers. His eldest sonne Roger succéeded him, a gentleman
though yoong in yeares, yet valiant and forward in feats of armes. [Sidenote: Ger. Dor. The
earle of Essex taken.] William Mandeuile earle of Essex, an ancient capteine, & an expert warriour
(who had serued the empresse, was taken also at S. Albons) but not without great slaughter
of the kings souldiers: [Sidenote: The earle of Arundell.] in so much that among other, the
erle of Arundell mounted on a couragious palfrie & a verie valiant man was ouerthrowen the
middest of a water called Haliwell, by a knight named Walkeline de Orcaie, so that same earle
was sore bruised in his bodie, and almost drowned. [Sidenote: N. Triuet. Wil. Paru.] The king
was present himselfe at the taking of the said Mandeuile, whom he spoiled of all his goods,
and constreined by way of redemption of his libertie, to deliuer into the kings hands the Tower
of London, the castell of Walden, and Pleshey. Here vpon the same earle being released was
driuen through pouertie to seeke some recouerie of his losses by sundrie spoiles and roberies.
[Sidenote: An. Reg. 9. 1144.] First of all therefore he spoiled the abbeie of S. Albons, and
then the abbeie of Ramsey, which he fortified and defended as a fortresse, [Sidenote: Hen.
Hunt.] casting the moonks out of doores, and in euerie place where soeuer he came, he robbed
the countrie before him, till at length in the midst of his reuenge and malicious dooings,
he was shot thorough with an arrow amongst his men by a sillie footman, and so ended his life
with confusion, receiuing worthie punishment for his vngodlie behauiour. [Sidenote: Sim. Dunel.
Iohn Pike. Matth. West. N. Triuet.] For he was a man of high stomach & loftie courage, but
verie obstinate against God, of great industrie in worldlie businesse, but passing negligent
towards his maker, as writers report of him.

[Sidenote: Wil. Malm. Wil. Paru.] Likewise Robert Marmion, who had attempted the semblable
robberie & spoile in the abbeie church of Couentrie, was slain before the same abbeie by a
like mischance. For going foorth to encounter with the earle of Chester (his mortall enimie,
and being approched as then towards the citie) he fell with his horsse into a ditch, which
he caused to be couertlie made for the destruction of his enimies: and before he could be relieued,
a souldier of the earles part stept to him, and stroke his head from his shoulders in sight
of both armies. Ernulfus the sonne of earle Geffrey Mandeuile that kept the church of Ramsey
as a fortresse, after his fathers death, was taken at length and banished.

¶ Thus we see how Gods iudgement hunteth and pursueth the wicked, in
somuch that they be ouertaken in their owne imaginations: according to
that of the scripture, "The wicked and bloudthirstie man shall not liue
halfe his daies." And true it is, that as men liue, so commonlie they
die: for, as one saith verie well:
[Sidenote: M. Pal. in suo scor.]
                      ---- bona nulla scelestis
    Et iustis mala nulla quidem contingere possunt.

About the same time aduertisement was giuen, that the citie of Lincolne, which the earle of
Chester had in keeping, was but slenderlie manned. Wherevpon the king conceiuing some hope
to win the same, hasted forward: [Sidenote: Lincolne besieged.] and comming thither in the
night, laid siege therevnto, and began to cast a trench to stop them within frō making any
salies without.

The earle at the first being somewhat amazed with the sudden approch of the enimie, yet beholding
from the walles the maner of them without, he perceiued the rankes to be verie thin: and thereby
gessing their number to be but small, suddenlie issued foorth at the gates to encounter with
them. [Sidenote: The siege raised.] The king abode not the giuing of the charge, bicause he
was but weake and therefore fled; neither could the earle follow the chace conuenientlie, for
the like cause; [Sidenote: N. Triuet.] but setting vpon those that were about to make the trench,
he slue 80. of the workmen, and then retired into the castell.

[Sidenote: A child crucified by the Jewes.] This yeare was an heinous act committed by the
Jewes at Norwich, where they put a child to death, in crucifieng him vpon a crosse to the reproch
of Christian religion.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Simon Dun.] [Sidenote: An. Reg. 10. 1145.] [Sidenote: A castell built
at Faringdon. Hen. Hunt. The king winneth it by force.] In the yeare following; namelie, in
the 10. yeare of king Stephans reigne, Robert earle of Glocester and other capteins took in
hand to build a castell at Faringdon. But King Stephan assembling an armie of Londoners and
other, came thither, and besieged them within. Now whilest earle Robert and others of the empresses
capteins remaining not far off, taried for a greater power to come to their aid, the king with
sharpe assaults (but not without losse of his men) wan the fortresse: whereby his side began
to wax the stronger, and to be more highlie aduanced. [Sidenote: An. Reg. 11. 1146.] After
this he came with a mightie armie vnto Wallingford, and there builded a strong castell ouer
against the other castell which his aduersaries held against him.

[Sidenote: Ran. Higd. Matth. Paris. N. Triuet. Simon Dun.] Thither also came the earle of Chester
with a great traine of knights and gentlemen vnto the king, and so at length they were not
vnfeignedlie accorded and made freends, but in apperance on the kings behalfe. For shortlie
after, the earle was craftilie taken at a parlement holden at Northampton, by the practise
of K. Stephan, and could not be deliuered till he had surrendred the citie and castell of Lincolne,
with other fortresses perteining to the crowne into the kings hands. [Sidenote: Ran. Higd.
The welshmen waste Cheshire. Ger. Dor.] About that time did the Welshmen destroie the prouince
of Chester, but at last they were distressed. This yeare also the loard Geffrey earle of Aniou
sent thrée Noble men into England, accompanied with certeine men of warre, vnto earle Robert,
requesting him to send ouer his sonne Henrie into France, that he might sée him, and if need
required, he promised to send him backe againe with all conuenient speed. Earle Robert was
contented to satisfie his request: and so with a good power of armed men brought the lord Henrie
vnto Warham, where he tooke leaue of him, neuer after to sée him in this world. [Sidenote:
The earle of Glocester departeth this life.] For when the child was transported, earle Robert
returned spéedilie to the parties from whence he came, and there falling into an ague, departed
this life about the beginning of Nouember, and was buried at Bristow. The lord Henrie comming
to his father, was ioifully receiued, and remained in those parties for the space of two yeares
and foure moneths.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 12. 1147.] In the meane season, the vniust procéedings of K. Stephan against
the earle of Chester, purchased him new hatred of his old aduersaries, and like supicion of
such as were his freends, for it sounded not a little to his dishonor. Euerie man therefore
was in doubt of his dealing, and iudged that it stood them vpon to take héed to themselues.
[Sidenote: Simon Dun. K. Stephen entreth into Lincolne with his crowne on his head.] But he
(as one that thought he had atchiued some high exploit) in triumphant wise shortlie after entred
into Lincolne in his roiall robes, and his crowne on his head, whereas it had not béene heard
that any king had doone the like manie yeares before.

¶ It is reported by some writers, that he did this, to root out of mens minds a foolish superstitious
conceit, which beléeued that no king with his crowne vpon his head might enter that citie,
but some mischance should light vpon him: wherevpon he seemed by this meanes to mocke their
superstitious imagination.

About the same time manie of the Nobles of the realme (perceiuing the kings authoritie to represse
violent wrongs committed by euill dooers to be defectiue) builded sundrie strong castels and
fortresses vpon their owne grounds, either to defend themselues, or to make force vpon their
enimies néere adioining. After the departing of the king from Lincolne, the earle of Chester
came thither with an armie, to assaie if he might recouer that citie. [Sidenote: Simon Dun.]
But his lieutenant that had the leading of his men, was slaine at the entring of the northgate,
and so the erle was beaten backe with the losse of manie of his men: and the citizens hauing
got the vpper hand, reioised not a little for the victorie.

But here (to staie a litle with temporall affaires) it shall not be amisse to rehearse the
effect of a contention, which fell about this time betwéene that king and the archbishop of
Canturburie. [Sidenote: Ger. Dor.] For so it happened (as Geruasius Dorobernensis writeth)
that pope Eugenius came this yere into France, about the middest of Lent, and afterward held
a synod or councell at Rhemes: wherevnto Theobald archbishop of Canturburie, with others of
the English bishops were summoned. The archbishop therevpon asking licence of the king, & not
obteining it, found meanes to steale awaie in a small bote, not without danger of his person.

Now therefore the case of this Theobald stood verie hard: for Henrie bishop of Winchester the
kings brother through enuie had so wrought, that if the archbishop passed ouer without licence,
he should be confined of the king. Againe, he was sure, if he came not to the councell, that
he should be suspended by the pope. Herevpon the archbishop meaning rather to offend the king
than the pope, got ouer, as it were swimming, rather than sailing; the vessell wherein he passed
ouer being starke naught: for all the ports were kept by the kings seruants, so that he was
glad to take such a bote as came next to hand. In consideration whereof he was highlie commended
by the pope.

In this councell the prebendaries of Yorke, togither with Henrie Mordach then abbat of Fountney,
presented themselues, exhibiting their complaint against William archbishop of Yorke, for that
(as they alledged) he was neither canonicallie chosen, nor lawfullie consecrated, but intruded
by the kings authoritie. At length archbishop William was conuicted and deposed, Albert bishop
of Hostia pronouncing sentence in this wise: "We doo decrée by the apostolike authoritie, that
William archbishop of Yorke is to be deposed from his sée, bicause Stephan king of England,
before any canonicall election, named him."

Then, for that pope Eugenius had thus deposed archbishop William, although not with the consent
of the more part of the cardinals, the chapiter of the church of Yorke, by his commandement
comming togither, part of them chose Hilarie bishop of Chichester, and the other part elected
Henrie Mordach abbat of Fountney. Now pope Eugenius, when both elections were shewed him at
Auxerre, confirmed the election of Henrie Mordach, and disanulled the other, and then consecrated
the foresaid Henrie with his owne hands. The late nominated archbishop William being thus deposed,
returned into England, and remained at Winchester with king Henrie till the death of pope Eugenius,
following the counsell of the same bishop in all things.

Now when the councell at Rhemes was ended, archbishop Theobald returned into England, and comming
to Canturburie, was receiued with great honor, of the couent and citizens there. But the king
remaining then at London, when he heard of it, was sore displeased, and came with great spéede
vnto Canturburie, where much conference being had betwixt him and the archbishop (although
to small purpose) for the bringing of them to an agréement, at length the king compelled the
archbishop to depart the realme. Wherevpon, after a few daies respit, he went to Douer, where
he tooke ship and sailed into France. But within a while he was called backe by the quéene
and William of Ypres, vnto S. Omers, that they might the sooner aduertise him of the kings
mind and pleasure. Here he consecrated Gilbert the elect bishop of Hereford, the fift daie
of September, Theodoric bishop of Amiens, and Nicholas bishop of Cambre assisting him.

After this, when by sending of messengers to and fro, as well bishops, abbats, and other, both
spirituall persons and temporall, there could no agréement be made, he directed his letter
to certeine churches here in England, pronouncing by a certeine day, namelie the twelfe day
of September, a sentence of interdiction to be obserued through the relme. The monks of Canturburie
sore offended herewith, before the prefixed day of this sentence to be put in vse, sent two
moonkes of their owne house, Nigell and Absolon, vnto the pope: whose errand when the pope
had vnderstood, he commanded them to returne home, and to obeie their archbishops sentence
in all things.

In the meane time, the archbishops men and tenants were sore oppressed, and his rents and reuenues
seized to the kings vse, yea euen before the daies of paiment. Which maner of proceeding sore
gréeued the archbishop: in so much that departing from S. Omers, he came to Graueling, and
there taking the sea, crossed ouer to a towne called Goseford that belonged vnto Hugh Bigot
erle of Northfolke: which earle receiued him with great honor, and sent him all necessarie
prouision, so long as he remained in his countrie. At the terme appointed, he interdicted all
the kings dominions, and would not reuoke the sentence, till Robert bishop, of London, Hilarie
bishop of Chichester, and William bishop of Norwhich, with manie other Noblemen, came to him
vnto Framelingham in Norfolke, a castell apperteining to the said earle, where at length an
attonment was concluded betwixt him and the king: wherevpon he was brought home vnto Canturburie
with great ioy and honor.

He accused the moonks of Canturburie, for disobeieng the interdiction, trusting that the pope
would not heare those two moonkes whom they had sent, as he did not indéed. He excommunicated
also all those that had receiued the sacraments amongst them, during the time of the interdiction.
Now these moonkes being at their wits end, dispatched with all speed other two moonkes to the
pope, to obteine an absolution, before the archbishop should vnderstand it: [Sidenote: Geruasius.]
but they were sent backe againe with checks and commanded to obeie their archbishop in all
things, as the other were, which had béene there with him before.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 13. 1148.] The moonks of Canturburie that were sent to Rome, returning,
came from thence to Bullongne, where they found those that were first sent thither: and so
they all foure came to Canturburie. The pope also had sent a priuie commandement to the archbishop
that he should duelie punish as well them as the other. Wherevpon the archbishop taking counsell
with his fréends, deposed Syluester the prior, and suspended William the secretarie of the
house from entring the quéere. It was decreed also, that the residue should cease so long a
time from saieng seruice, as they had said it before vnlawfullie, against the archbishops commandement.
For it was thought reason, that whilest other sang and were merrie, they should keepe silence,
which wilfullie tooke vpon them to sing, whilest other held their peace and were still. They
began therefore to cease from saieng diuine seruice, and from ringing their bels in the second
wéeke of Lent & so kept silence from the twelfe day of March, vntill the first daie of August.

The quéene wife to king Stephan in this meane while lay much at S. Augustines in Canturburie,
bicause of hastening forward the building of Feuersham abbeie, which she and hir husband had
begonne from the verie foundation. And bicause the moonkes of S. Augustine might not celebrate
diuine seruice, she called thither commonlie the moonks of Christes church to say seruice before
hir. Thus much for that purpose: and now to other matters.

[Sidenote: The L. Henrie returneth into England.] [Sidenote: An. Reg. 14. 1149.] The lord Henrie
Fitzempresse after all these businesses returned into England, in the moneth of May, with a
great companie of men of warre both horssemen and footmen: by reason whereof many reuolted
from king Stephan to take part with him: whereas before they sat still, and would not attempt
any exploit against him. But now incouraged with the presence of the lord Henrie, they declared
themselues freends to him, and enimies to the king. Immediatlie after his arriuall, he tooke
with him the earles of Chester and Hereford, Ranulfe and Roger, and diuers other Noble men
and knights of great fame, beside those whom he had brought with him out of Normandie, and
went vnto Carleil, where he found his coosin Dauid king of Scotland, of whome he was most ioifullie
receiued; [Sidenote: He is made knight. R. Houed.] and vpon Whitsunday with great solemnitie,
being not past sixtéene yeares of age, was by the same king made knight, with diuerse other
yoong gentlemen that were much about the same age.

¶ Some write, that the king of Scots receiued an oth of him before he gaue him the honor of
knighthood, that if he chanced to atteine vnto the possession of the realme of England, he
should restore to the Scots the towne of Newcastle, with the countrie of Northumberland, from
the riuer of Twéed, to the riuer of Tine. But whether it were so or not, I am not able to make
warrantize.

Now king Stephan hearing that the king of Scots, and his aduersarie the lord Henrie with the
chéefest lords of the west parts of England lay thus in Carleil, [Sidenote: K. Stephan with
an armie commeth to Yorke.] he raised an armie, and came to the citie of Yorke, where he remained
for the most part of the moneth of August, fearing least his enimies should attempt the winning
of that citie. But after the one part had remained a time in Carleil, and the other in Yorke,
they departed from both those places without any further exploit for that season, sauing that
Eustachius king Stephans sonne (hauing also latelie receiued the order of knighthood) did much
hurt in the countries which belonged to those Noble men that were with the lord Henrie.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris.. Great raine.] The great raine that fell in the summer season this
yeare did much hurt vnto corne standing on the ground, so that a great dearth followed. [Sidenote:
A sore frost.] In the winter also after, about the tenth day of December, it began to fréese
extreamelie, and so continued till the nineteenth of Februarie: whereby the riuer of Thames
was so frosen, that men might passe ouer it both on foot and horssebacke.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 15. 1150.] In the meane while Henrie Duke of Normandie, after he had returned
from the king of the Scots, sailed backe into Normandie, about the beginning of August, leauing
England full of all those calamities, which ciuill warre is accustomed to bring with it, as
burning of houses, killing, robbing, and spoiling of people, so that the land was in danger
of vtter destruction, by reason of that pestilent discord.

This yeare the 23. of Februarie, Galfridus Monumetensis, otherwise called Galfridus Arthurius,
who turned the British historie into Latine, was consecrated bishop of S. Assaph, by Theobald
archbishop of Canturburie, at Lambeth, William bishop of Norwhich and Walter bishop of Rochester
assisting him.

[Sidenote: Ger. Dor. The earle of Aniou father to Henry Fitzempress departeth his life.] Morouer,
this yeare (as some writers haue recorded) Geffrey earle of Aniou, of husband to the empresse
Maud, departed this life, on the seuenth day of September, leauing his sonne Henrie onelie
heire and successor in the estates of the duchie of Normandie and countie of Aniou. The bodie
of the said earle was buried at Mans, with a great funerall pompe: his three sonnes Henrie,
Geffrey, and William being present.

[Sidenote: Worcester assaulted.] But king Stephan assaulting the faire citie of Worcester with
a great power of men tooke it, and consumed it with fire, but the castell he could not win.
This citie belonged to earle Waleran de Mellent, at that season: for king Stephan to his owne
hinderance had giuen it vnto him. Now after the men of warre had diuided the spoile amongst
them, they came backe, and passing through the lands of their enimies, got great booties, which
they also tooke away with them, finding none to resist them in their iournie.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 16. 1151.] [Sidenote: Ger. Dorober. A synod at London. ] In the yeare following
Theobald archbishop of Canturburie, and legat to the sée apostolike, held a generall synod
or councell at London in the Lent season, where king Stephan himselfe with his sonne Eustachius,
and other the peers of the realme were present. This councell was full of appeales, contrarie
to that had beene vsed in this land, till the time that Henrie bishop of Winchester vnto his
owne harme (whilest he was likewise the Popes legat) had by vniust intrusion brought them in,
and now at this councell he was himselfe thrise appealed to the hearing of the popes owne consistorie.
After this king Stephan in the same yeare brake into the citie of Worcester, and whereas he
could not the last time win the castell, he now endeauoured with all his force to take it.
But when those within made valiant resistance, he raised two castels against it, and leauing
in the same certeine of his Nobles to continue the siege, he himselfe returned home. ¶ Thus
(as yee see) the kings propertie was to attempt manie things valiantlie, but he procéeded in
them oftentimes verie slowlie: howbeit, now by the policie of the earle of Leicester, those
two castels which the king had raised to besiege the other castell, were shortlie after destroied:
and so the besieged were deliuered from danger. [Sidenote: The earle of Leicester brother to
the erle of Mellent.] This earle of Leicester was brother to the earle of Mellent. Thus the
kings purposed intention and painefull trauell on that behalfe came to none effect.

[Sidenote: An. Reg. 17. 1152.] [Sidenote: The duke of Normandie Fitzempresse marieth the duchesse
of Aquitaine.] In the meane while Henrie duke of Normandie maried Elianor duches of Guien or
Aquitaine, latelie diuorsed from the French king, and so in right of hir he became duke of
Aquitaine, and earle of Poictou; for she was the onelie daughter to William duke of Guien,
and earle of Poictou, and by hir father created his sole and lawfull heire.

[Sidenote: The French king maketh warre against the duke of Normandie.] The French king was
nothing pleased with this mariage, in somuch that he made sore warre vpon duke Henrie, ioining
himselfe in league with king Stephan, with his sonne Eustace, and with the lord Geffrey brother
to duke Henrie, so that the said Henrie was constreined to defer his iournie into England,
and applie his power to defend his countries and subiects on that side of the sea. For whereas
he was readie at the mouth of the riuer of Barbe to passe ouer into England, not long after
midsummer, the French king, with Eustace king Stephans sonne, Robert erle of Perch, Henrie
erle of Champaigne, and Geffrey brother to duke Henrie, hauing assembled a mightie armie, came
and besieged the castell of Newmarch, and sent foorth the lord Geffrey with a strong power
to win the castell of Angers. Duke Henrie aduertised hereof departing from the place where
he soiourned, hasted foorth to succour his people that were besieged, [Sidenote: The castell
of Newmarch deliuered to the French king.] but the castell of Newmarch was deliuered to the
French king through treason of those that had it in kéeping, before the duke could come to
their rescue.

Wherevpon the said duke hauing knowledge by the waie that he should come too late thither,
he encamped first vpon the side of the riuer of Andell, [Sidenote: Ueulquesine or Ueuxin.]
and wasted a great part of the countrie of Ueuxin or Ueulquesine, surnamed Le Normant, which
lieth betwixt the riuer of Epte and Andell. This countrie belonged sometime to Normandie, but
Geffrey earle of Aniou the dukes father had resigned it to the French king, to the end he should
not aid king Stephan. The duke also burned the castels of Bascheruille, Chitrey, Stripiney,
and the castell of Fort, that belonged to Hugh de Gourney, with diuerse other. About the end
of August he left his townes in Normandie sufficientlie furnished with garisons of souldiers,
and went into Aniou, where he besieged the castell de mount Sotelli, till he had taken it,
and all those that were within it, amongst whome was the lord thereof named William. The French
king on the other side entring into Normandie, burnt part of the borough of Rieule, [Sidenote:
The towne castell of Uernon. Simon Dun.] and either then or shortlie after that duke Henrie
was gone ouer into England, he tooke the towne and castell of Uernon.

Whilest these things were thus a dooing in France, K. Stephan would haue caused the archbishop
of Canturburie & diuerse other bishops, whom for that purpose he had assembled, to crowne,
annoint, and confirme his sonne Eustace king ouer the realme of England. [Sidenote: The Pope
is against it.] But the archbishops and bishops refused so to doo, bicause the pope by his
letters sent to the archbishop, had commanded to the contrarie; namelie, that he should in
no wise crowne the kings sonne, bicause his father king Stephan had got the possession of the
land against his oth receiued in behalfe of the empresse. [Sidenote: The bishops are threatened.]
The father and sonne being not a litle offended herewith, committed most of his bishops to
ward séeking by threats and menacings to bring them to his purpose. The bishops also were in
no small perplexitie: for according to the truth, the king neuer seemed greatlie to fauor churchmen,
bicause of their strength (as in former times by his rigor vsed against the bishops of Salisburie
and Lincolne it plainelie appeared) and yet would not these men yéeld to his pleasure: wherevpon
although they were set at libertie, they were neuerthelesse depriued of their temporall possessions,
which notwithstanding afterwards vpon the kings owne motion were restored vnto them.

[Sidenote: Ger. Dor.] Howbeit the archbishop of Canturburie persisting still in his oppinion,
was forsaken of diuerse of the bishops, who throgh feare durst not stand against their princes
pleasure. [Sidenote: The Archbishop of Canturburie flieth out of the realme.] But the archbishop,
when he perceiued how the matter went, & that all the blame was like to light and rest on his
shoulders, he got himselfe by a maruellous hap ouer the Thames, and with, spéed riding to Douer,
passed the sea, to auoid both the fathers and sonnes reuengefull displeasure. Herevpon the
king seized into his hands all the lands & possessions that belonged to the archbishop.

[Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Ger. Dor.] This yeare queene Maud wife to king Stephan departed this
life at Hangey castell, that belonged to earle Alberike de Uéer, about the third daie of Maie,
and was buried in the abbeie of Feuersham, which she with hir husband king Stephan had latelie
founded.

This yeare through great and immoderate raine that fell in the summer, the growing of corne
was so hindred, that a great death of people insued[4].

[Sidenote: The battell of Monadmore Matth. Paris. The second & also the first bishops of Man.]
This yeare also was the battell of Monadmore fought in Ireland, where the flower and chiefest
personages of Mounster and Leynister were slaine. Moreouer one John a moonke of Sagium, was
made the second bishop of the Isle of Man: the first bishop that was there instituted hight
Wimond a moonke of Sauinie, who for his importunate misdemenour in some respects, had his eies
put out, and was displaced.

[Sidenote: Hen. Marle.] John Papirio a cardinall, being sent from the pope as legat into Ireland,
ordeined foure archbishops there, one at Dublin, an other at Ardmach, the third at Cassels,
and the fourth at Connach. [Sidenote: The bishop of Dublin made archbishop.] The sée of Dublin
he changed into an archbishops sée, one Gregorie at that time possessing the same: to whom
he gaue the first and chiefe pall, and appointed the church of the blessed Trinitie to be church
metropolitane. As this cardinall passed through England, he receiued an oth of fealtie vnto
king Stephan.

[Sidenote: The castell of Newburie won.] The same yeare also king Stephan by siege and force
of assault did win the castell of Newberie not far from Winchester. This doone he went to Wallingford,
and besieging the castell, he builded at the entring of the bridge a fortresse to stop them
within from issuing out, and likewise from receiuing any reliefe or succour by their fréends
abroad. The defendants perceiuing themselues so hardlie laid at, sent to the duke of Normandie
(in whose name they kept that castell) desiring him either to succour them, or else giue them
licence to yéeld vp the castell to the king. Herevpon duke Henrie hauing dispatched his businesse
on the further side of the sea, began to be kindled with a feruent desire once againe to attempt
his fortune here in England for recouerie of that kingdome, and so with three thousand footmen,
& 7 score horssemen, [Sidenote: Duke Henrie Fitzempresse returneth into England. Ger. Dor.]
with all spéede possible sailed ouer into England, where he landed about the 12. daie in Christmasse.
He was no sooner arriued, but a great number of such as tooke part with his mother came flocking
in vnto him: [Sidenote: He besiegeth the castell of Malmesburie. Matth. Paris. Polydor.] wherevpon
being now furnished with a great and puissant armie, he marched foorth to Malmesburie, where
in the castell was a great garison of soldiers placed by king Stephan. Duke Henrie planted
his siege about this castell the thirtéenth daie of Januarie, and enforced himselfe to the
vttermost of his power to win it.

Now king Stephan hearing of his enimies arriuall, with all hast possible got his armie on foot,
and comming suddenlie towards the place where is enimies were pitched, [Sidenote: K. Stephan
constreineth him to raise his siege.] he caused duke Henrie to raise his siege, and following
after, offered him battell. But duke Henrie, knowing that his enimies were far more in number
than he was at that present, and also conceiuing with himselfe that by prolonging of time his
owne power would increase, absteined from fighting, and kept him within the closure of his
campe. [Sidenote: Wil. Paru.] ¶ Thus haue some written, but other authors write, that Henrie
kept himselfe indeed within his campe, and refused to giue battell, but yet remoued not his
siege, till the king departed from thence, after he saw he could not haue his purpose, and
then did duke Henrie win the castell of Malmesburie, or rather the maister tower or chéefe
dungeon of that castell. [Sidenote: Simon Dun. Ger. Dor.] For as (Simon of Durham writeth)
he had won by assault the other parts and lims of the castell before king Stephan came to remoue
him.

This tower that thus held out, was in the keeping of one capteine Jordan, who escaping foorth
came to the king, informing him in what state he had left his men within the tower: wherevpon
the king (making all the power that he was able) set forward, and comming to Circiter, lodged
there one night, and in the morning purposing to raise the siege, or to fight with his enimies
(if they would abide battell) marched foorth towards Malmesburie. [Sidenote: A sore storm.]
But vpon his approch to the dukes campe, the daie following his comming thither, there rose
such a hideous tempest of wind and raine, beating full in the faces of king Stephans people,
that God seemed to fight for the duke, who in respect of the number of people was thought too
weake to deale with the strong and puissant armie of the king: howbeit the storme being on
his backe, and beating extremelie in king Stephans mens faces, they were not able to hold their
weapons in their hands, in somuch that he perceiued he could not passe the riuer that ran betwixt
the armies: wherevpon constreined in that sort through the violent rage of that cold and wet
weather, he returned to London full euill appaied, in that he could not satisfie his expectation
at that present.

The tower that duke Henrie had hardlie besieged immediatlie herewith was surrendred vnto him,
& then making prouision for vittels and other things, [Sidenote: The castell of Wallingford.]
to the reliefe of them that kept the castell of Wallingford, he hasted thither, and finding
no resistance by the way, easily accomplished his enterprise. There were diuerse castels thereabouts
in the countrie furnished with garisons of the kings souldiers, but they kept themselues close,
and durst not come abroad to stop his passage. [Sidenote: The castell of Cranemers. ] Shortlie
after he besieged the castell of Cranemers, and cast a trench about it, so as his people within
Wallingford castell might haue free libertie to come foorth at their pleasure: but as for those
within the castell of Cranemers, they were so hardlie holden in, that there was no waie for
them to start out.

The king aduertised hereof, got all his host togither, and marched forward verie terriblie
toward duke Henries campe. But shewing no token of feare, he caused the trench wherewith he
had inclosed his campe foorthwith to be cast downe, and leauing the siege, came into the fields
with his armie set in order of battell, meaning to trie the matter by dint of sword, although
he had not the like number of men as the king had: whose armie perceiuing their enimies to
come in the face of them, were stricken with a sudden feare: neuerthelesse, he himselfe being
of a good courage, commanded his people to march forward. But herewith certeine Noble men,
that loued not the aduancement of either part, vnder a colour of good meaning sought to treat
an agréement betwixt them, so that an intermission or cesing from war was granted, and by composition
the castell which the king had built, and the duke besieged, was razed to the ground. The king
and the duke also came to an interuiew and communication togither, a riuer running betwixt
them. [Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Ger. Dor. Eustace king Stephans sonne.] Some write that they
fell to agreement, king Stephan vndertaking to raze the castell of Cranemers himselfe, and
so laieng armour aside for that time, they parted asunder.

But Eustace K. Stephans son was sore offended herewith, and reprouing his father for concluding
such an agréement, in a great rage departed from the court, & taking his waie toward Cambridgeshire
(which countrie he meant to ouerrun) he came to the abbeie of Burie, and vpon S. Laurence daie
caused all the corne in the countrie about and namelie that which belonged to the said abbeie,
to be spoiled and brought into a castell which he had in keeping not far from thence. [Sidenote:
Eustace king Stephans son and Simon earl of Northāpton depart this life both in one wéeke.]
But as he sat downe to meat the same daie vpon receiuing the first morsell he fell mad (as
writers haue reported) and miserablie ended his life. The same weeke Simon earle of Northampton
departed this world of a like disease, and so two of the cheefest aduersaries which duke Henrie
had, were rid out of the waie. Eustace was buried at Feuersham in Kent, and earle Simon at
Northampton.

[Sidenote: The earle of Chester deceasseth.] About the same time also that noble and valiant
earle of Chester called Ranulfe departed this life, a man of such stoutnesse of stomach, that
death could scarselie make him to yeeld, or shew any token of feare: he was poisoned (as was
thought) by William Peuerell. After him succeeded his sonne Hugh, a man likewise of passing
strength and vertue. Now although earle Ranulfe fauoured the part of duke Henrie, yet in these
later yeares he did but little for him: wherefore it was thought that the death of this earle
was not so great a losse to the duke, as the deaths of Eustace, earle Simon, and other the
kings fréends deceasing about the same time seemed to further him: so that his part became
dailie stronger, and the kings weaker.

About the same time the castels of Reading and Béertwell were deliuered to duke Henrie, [Sidenote:
Matth. Par. Rob. Mont.] and the ladie Gundreda countesse of Warwike draue out the souldiers
that held it for king Stephan, and deliuered the towne to duke Henrie. In this yeare duches
Elenor, wife to Henrie Fitzempresse, was brought to bed of hir first borne son, whom they named
William, after the maner of the ancient dukes of Aquitaine.

Thus came things to passe in sundrie places with so good successe as duke Henrie could wish,
wherevpon meaning to follow the steps of prosperous fortune, he marched foorth to Stamford,
[Sidenote: Stamford was taken. Simon Dun. Ger. Dor. Gipswich or Ipswich besieged.] and taking
the towne at his first comming laid siege to the castell. Now they that had it in keeping sent
messengers to king Stephan, requiring rescue, but the same time he had laid siege to the castell
of Gipswich, which Hugh Bigot kept against him: and bicause he wold not depart from that siege
till he had the castell giuen vp into his hands (which came at last to passe) in the meane
time the castell of Stamford was yéelded vp to duke Henrie, [Sidenote: N. Triuet.] who immediatelie
therevpon departed from Stamford eastward, meaning to come to the succour of his fréends besieged
at Gipswich or Ipswich (as it is commonlie called) not vnderstanding as yet that they had surrendred
the hold: but hauing knowledge by the way what was happened, [Sidenote: Notinghàm.] he returned
and marched streight to Notingham, and got the towne easilie; for they within the castell had
set it on fire, therefore he besieged the castell standing vpon the point of a stéepe craggie
rocke, and was furnished with a strong garison of men, and all things necessarie for defense,
so that it could not easilie be woone.

[Sidenote: Duke Henrie raiseth his siege from Notingham. Polydor.]
When duke Henrie had assaied all the waies how to take it, and saw that
he could not preuaile, he minded to loose no more time: but raising his
siege from thence, he ranged abroad to get other places into his
possession, and finallie came to his mother, and laie at Wallingford. K.
Stephan in the meane time being strong in the field, sought time and
place to haue Henrie at some aduantage, who in his yoong yeares (as yet
not hauing tasted any misfortune) he thought would rashlie attempt some
vnaduised enterprise. [Sidenote: The miserie of this land in time of the
ciuill warre.] ¶ But whereas the realme of England had béene now manie
yeares miserablie turmoiled with ciuill warre (which the verie heathen
haue so detested, that they haue exclaimed against it with a kind of
irksomnesse; as:
    [Sidenote: Hor. lib. car. 1. ode. 2. ode. 1.]
    Metu deorum continuit? quibus
    Pepercit aris? iam litui strepunt,
        Iam fulgor armorum fugaces
        Terret equos equitúmque vultus)
Wherein (besides millians of extremities) honest matrones and mens wiues
were violated, maids and virgins rauished, churches spoiled, townes and
villages robbed, whole flocks and heards of shéepe and beasts destroied
(wherein the substance of the realme cheeflie consisted) and men without
number slaine and murthered, it pleased the goodnesse of almightie God
at length to deliuer the land of these miseries, which were notified to
all countries round about that sore lamented the same.

Now whereas king Stephan was the cause of all the troubles, in hauing vsurped an other mans
rightfull inheritance, it pleased God to mooue his hart at length to desire peace which he
had euer before abhorred. The cause that mooued him chéefelie to change his former purpose,
was for that his sonne Eustace by speedie death was taken out of this world (as before ye haue
heard) which losse séemed great not onelie to the father, but also to all those lords and others
which had alwaies taken his part, bicause he was a yoong man so well liked of all men, that
he was iudged to be borne to much honour. [Sidenote: The ladie Constance wife to Eustace sent
home.] But his wife Constance tooke his death verie sorowfullie, and the more indeed for that
she had no issue by him, wherevpon shortlie after she was sent honourablie home to hir father
king Lewes with hir dower, and other rich and princelie gifts.

King Stephan séeing himselfe thus depriued of his onelie sonne, vnto whome he minded to leaue
the kingdome which he so earnestlie sought to confirme and assure vnto him by warlike endeuor,
and that againe the French kings aid would not be so readie as heretofore it had béene (wherevpon
he much staied, now that the bonds of affinitie were abolished) he began at length (though
not immediatlie vpon his sonnes deceasse) to withdraw his mind from war, [Sidenote: K. Stephan
began to incline his mind to peace. Matth. Paris.] and bequeathed it wholie to peace. Which
alteration being perceiued, those Nobles that were glad to sée the state of their countrie
quieted, did their best to further it; & chéeflie Theobald archbishop of Canturburie trauelled
earnestlie to bring the princes to some agréement, now talking with the king, now sending to
the duke, [Sidenote: Ger. Dor.] and vsing all meanes possible to set them at vnitie. The bishop
of Winchester also, who had caused all the trouble, vpon consideration of the great calamities
wherewith the land was most miserablie afflicted, began to wish an end thereof. Wherevpon the
lords spirituall and temporall were called togither at Winchester about the latter end of Nouember,
that they with their consents also might confirme whatsoeuer the king and the duke should conclude
vpon.

[Sidenote: An assemblie of lords at Winchester. A peace concluded betwixt the king and the
duke.] Thus was a publike assemblie made in the citie of Winchester, whither also duke Henrie
came who being ioifullie receiued of the king in the bishops palace, they were made fréends,
the king admitting the duke for his sonne, and the duke the king for his father, insomuch that
the agreement, which (through the carefull sute of the archbishop of Canturburie) had beene
laboured with such diligence to good effect, was now confirmed: the cheefe articles whereof
were these.

     [Sidenote: Some writers haue recorded that duke Henrie should
     presentlie by this agréement enioy halfe the realme of England.]
     1 That king Stephan, during his naturall life, should remaine king
     of England, and Henrie the empresses sonne should enioy the
     dukedome of Normandie, and be proclaimed heire apparant to succéed
     in and haue the regiment of England, after the deceasse of Stephan.

     2 That such noble men, and other, which had held either with the
     one partie or the other, during the time of the ciuill warres,
     should be in no danger for the same but enioy their lands,
     possessions and liuings, according to their ancient rights and
     titles.

     3 That the king should resume and take into his hands againe, all
     such portions and parcels of inheritance belonging to the crowne,
     as he had giuen away, or were otherwise vsurped by any maner of
     person, and that all those possessions which by any intrusion had
     béene violentlie taken from the right owners, since the daies of
     king Henrie, should be restored to them that were rightlie
     possessed in the same by the daies of the said king.

     [Sidenote: Matth. Paris. Castels to be razed in number. 1115.]
     4 That all those castels, which contrarie to all reason and good
     order had béene made and builded by any maner of person in the
     daies of king Stephan, should be ouerthrowne and cast downe, which
     were found to be eleuen hundred and fifteene.

     5 That the king should reforme all such disorders as warre had
     brought in; to restore farmers to their holdings, to repaire
     decaied buildings, to restore pastures and leassues with cattell,
     hils with sheepe, &c.

     6 That by his meanes the cleargie might enioy their due
     quietnesse, and not be oppressed with any vniust exactions.

     7 That he should place shirifes where they had béene accustomed
     to beare rule, with instructions giuen them to deale vprightlie
     in causes, so as offenders might not escape through bribes, or
     any other respect of freendship; but that euerie man might
     receiue according to right and equitie.

     8 That soldiours should conuert their swords (as Esaie saith)
     into culters & plough shares, their speares into mattocks, and so
     returne from the campe to the plough: and that such as were woont
     to keepe watch in the night season, might now sléepe and take
     their rest without any danger.

     9 That the husbandman might be set frée from all trouble and
     vexation, by meanes wherof he might follow his tilth, and plie
     his culture.

     10 That merchant men and occupiers might enioy their trades and
     occupations to their aduancement.

     11 That one kind and manner of siluer coine should run through
     the land, &c.

     12 There was also consideration had of a sonne which king Stephan
     had, named William, who though he were verie yoong, was yet
     appointed to sweare fealtie vnto duke Henrie as lawfull heire to
     the crowne. The same William had the citie of Norwhich, and
     diuerse other lands assigned him for the maintenance of his
     estate, and that by the consent and agréement of duke Henrie his
     adopted brother.

These things being thus concluded at Winchester, and the warre that had continued, for the
space of 17 yeares now ended and fullie pacified: the king tooke the duke with him to London,
dooing to him all the honour he could deuise. The newes whereof being spred abrode, euerie
good man reioised thereat. Thus through the great mercie of God, peace was restored vnto the
decaied state of this relme of England. Which things being thus accomplished with great ioy
and tokens of loue, king Stephan and his new adopted sonne duke Henrie tooke leaue either of
other, appointing shortlie after to méet againe at Oxenford, there to perfect euerie article
of their agréement, which was thus accorded a little before Christmas.

¶ But by the way, for the better vnderstanding of the said agreement, I haue thought good to
set downe the verie tenor of the charter made by king Stephan, as I haue copied it out, and
translated it into English out of an autentike booke conteining the old lawes of the Saxon
and Danish kings, in the end whereof the same charter is exemplified, which booke is remaining
with the right worshipfull William Fléetwood esquire, now recorder of London, and sargeant at law.

     The charter of king Stephan, of the pacification of the troubles
     betwixt him and Henrie duke of Normandie.

     Stephan king of England, to all archbishops, bishops, abbats,
     earles, iusticers, sherifes, barons and all his faithfull
     subiects of England sendeth greeting. Know yee that I king
     Stephan, haue ordeined Henrie duke of Normandie after me by right
     of inheritance to be my successour, and heire of the kingdome of
     England, and so haue I giuen and granted to him and his heires
     the kingdome of England. For the which honour, gift, and
     confirmation to him by me made, he hath doone homage to me, and
     with a corporall oth hath assured me, that he shall be faithfull
     and loiall to me, and shall to his power preserue my life and
     honour: and I on the other side shall maineteine and preserue him
     as my sonne and heire in all things to my power, and so far as by
     any waies or meanes I may.

     [Sidenote: William sonne to king Stephan.] And William my sonne
     hath doone his lawfull homage, and assured his fealtie vnto the
     said duke of Normandie, and the duke hath granted to him to hold of
     him all those tenements and holdings which I held before I atteined
     to the possession of the realme of England, wheresoeuer the same be
     in England, Normandie, or elsewhere, [Sidenote: Earle Warren.] and
     whatsoeuer he receiued with the daughter of earle Warren, either in
     England or Normandie, & likewise whatsoeuer apperteineth to those
     honoures. And the duke shall put my sonne William and his men that
     are of that honour in full possession and seizine of all the lands,
     boroughs and rents, which the duke thereof now hath in his demaine,
     and namelie of those that belong to the honour of the earle Warren,
     [Sidenote: The castels of Bellencumber and Mortimer.] and namelie
     of the castels of Bellencumber and Mortimer, so that Reginald de
     Warren shall haue the kéeping of the same castels of Bellencumber,
     and of Mortimer, if he will; and therevpon shall giue pledges to
     the duke: and if he will not haue the keeping of those castels,
     then other liege of men of the said erle Warren, whom it shall
     please the duke to appoint, shall be sure pledges and good suertie
     keepe the said castels.

     Moreouer, the duke shall deliuer vnto him according to my will and
     pleasure the other castels, [Sidenote: The erledome of Mortaigne.]
     which belong vnto the earledome of Mortaigne by safe custodie and
     pledges, so soone as he conuenientlie may, so as all the pledges
     are to be restored vnto my sonne free, so soone as the duke shall
     haue the realme of England in possession. The augmentation also
     which I haue giuen vnto my sonne William, he hath likewise granted
     the same to him; [Sidenote: Norwich. ] to wit, the castell and
     towne of Norwich, with seauen hundred pounds in lands, so as the
     rents of Norwich be accounted as parcell of the same seauen hundred
     pounds in lands, and all the countie of Norfolke; the profits and
     rents which belong to churches, bishops, abbats & earles excepted;
     [Sidenote: Hugh Bigot] and the third pennie whereof Hugh Bigot is
     earle, also excepted: sauing also and reseruing the kings roiall
     iurisdiction for administration of iustice. Also the more to
     strengthen my fauour and loue to himwards, [Sidenote: Richer de
     Egle.] the duke hath giuen and granted vnto my said sonne
     whatsoeuer Richer de Aquila hath of the honour of Peuensey. And
     moreouer the castell and towne of Peuensey, and the seruice of
     Faremouth, beside the castell and towne of Douer, and whatsoeuer
     apperteineth to the honour of Douer.

     [Sidenote: The church of Feuersham.] The duke hath also confirmed
     the church of Feuersham with the appurtenances; and all other
     things giuen or restored by me vnto other churches, he shall
     confirme by the counsell and aduice of holie church and of me. The
     earles and barons that belong to the duke, which were neuer my
     leeges, for the honour which I haue done to their master, they haue
     now doone homage and sworne fealtie to me, the couenants betwixt me
     & the said duke alwaies saued. The other which had before doone
     homage to me, haue sworne fealtie to me as to their souereigne
     lord. And if the duke should breake and go from the premisses, then
     are they altogither to ceasse from dooing him any seruice, till he
     reforme his misdooings. And my sonne also is to constreine him
     thereto, according to the aduice of holie church, if the duke shall
     chance to go from the couenants afore mentioned. My earles and
     barons also haue doone their leege and homage vnto the duke, sauing
     their faith to me so long as I liue, and shall hold the kingdome
     with like condition, that if I doo breake and go from the premitted
     couenants, that then they may ceasse from dooing me any seruice,
     till the time I haue reformed that which I haue doone amisse.

     The citizens also of cities, and those persons that dwell in
     castels, which I haue in my demaine, by my commandement haue doone
     homage, and made assurance to the duke, sauing the fealtie which
     they owe to me during my life time, and so long as I shall hold the
     kingdome. [Sidenote: Wallingford castell.] They which keep the
     castle of Wallingford haue doone their homage to me, and haue giuen
     to me pledges for the observing of their fealtie. And I haue made
     vnto the duke such assurance of the castels and strengths which I
     hold by the counsell and aduice of holie church, that when I shall
     depart this life, the duke thereby may not run into any losse or
     impeachment, whereby to be debarred from the kingdome. [Sidenote:
     The tower of London. Mota de Windsor.] The tower of London, and the
     fortresse of Windsor, by the counsell and aduice of holie church
     are deliuered vnto the lord Richard de Lucie, [Sidenote: Richard de
     Lucie.] safelie to be kept, which Richard hath taken an oth, and
     hath deliuered his sonne in pledge to remaine in the hands and
     custodie of the archbishop of Canturburie, that after my decease he
     shall deliuer the same castels vnto the duke. Likewise by the
     counsell and aduise of holie church, [Sidenote: Mota de Oxford.]
     Roger de Bussey keepeth the castell of Oxford, and Jordaine de
     Bussey the castell of Lincolne, which Roger & Jordaine haue sworne,
     and thereof haue deliuered pledges into the hands of the
     archbishop, that if I shall chance to leaue this life, they shal
     render the same castels to the duke without impeachment. [Sidenote:
     The bishop of Winchester.] The bishop of Winchester hath also giuen
     his faith in the hands of the archbishop of Canturburie, that if I
     chance to depart this life, he shall render vp vnto the duke the
     castels of Winchester, and the fortresse of Hampton.

     And if any of them, vnto whom the custodie of these fortresses
     shall be committed, fortune to die, or otherwise to depart from
     his charge, an other shall be appointed to the keeping of the
     same fortresse, before he shall depart foorth thereof, by the
     counsell and aduice of holie church. And if any of those persons
     that haue any castels or fortresses belonging to me in their
     custodie shall be found disobedient and rebell, I and the duke
     shall constreine him to satisfie our will & pleasure, not leauing
     him in rest till he be so constreined. The archbishops and
     bishops of the realme of England, and the abbats also, haue by my
     commandement sworne fealtie vnto the duke; and the bishops and
     abbats that hereafter shall be made and aduanced here within the
     realme of England shall likewise sweare fealtie to him. The
     archbishops also and bishops on either part, haue vndertaken,
     that if either of vs shall go from the foresaid couenants, they
     shall so long chastise the partie offending with the
     ecclesiastical censures, till he reforme his fault, and returne
     to fulfill and obserue the said couenants. The mother also of the
     duke, and his wife, and his brethren, & subjects whom he may
     procure, shall likewise assure the premisses.

     In matters belonging to the state of the realme, I shall worke by
     the dukes aduice. And through all the realme of England, as well
     in that part which belongeth to the duke, as in that which
     belongeth to me, I shall see that roiall iustice be executed.
     These beeing witnesses, Theobald archbishop of Canturburie, Hen.
     of Winchester, Robert of Excester, Rob. of Bath, Goceline of
     Salisburie, Robert of Lincolne, Hilarie of Cicester, William of
     Norwich, Richard of London, Migell of Elie, Gilbert of Hereford,
     John of Worcester, Walter of Chester, Walter of Rochester,
     Geffrey of S. Asaph, Bishops: Robert prior of Bermondsey, Othon
     knight of the temple, William earle of Cicester, Robert earle of
     Leicester, William earle of Glocester, Renold of Cornewall,
     Baldwin de Toning, Roger de Hereford, Hugh Bigot, Patrike de
     Salisburie, William de Albemarle, Earle Alberike, Roger Clare,
     Richard erle of Pembroke, Richard de Lucie, William Martell,
     Richard de Humer, Reginald de Warren, Mahaser Biset, John de
     Port, Richard de Cameuille, Henrie de Essex. Geuen at
     Westminster.

[Sidenote: 1154. An. Reg. 19.] [Sidenote: Ger. Dor.] Thus far the Charter: and now to proceed
with the historie. Immediatlie after Christmasse, euen in the Octaues of the Epiphanie, the
king and duke Henrie met againe Oxenford, where all the earls and barons of the land being
assembled, sware fealtie vnto duke Henrie, their allegiance due vnto king Stephan, as to their
souereigne lord and supreme gouernour so long as he liued, alwaies reserued. The forme of the
peace was now also ingrossed and registered for a perpetuall witnesse of the thing, in this
yeare 1154. after their account that begin the yeare at Christmasse, as about the feast of
S. Hilarie in Januarie commonlie called the twentith daie. Thus was Henrie the sonne of the
empresse made the adopted sonne of king Stephan, and therevpon the said Henrie saluted him
as king, and named him father. After conclusion of this peace, by the power of almightie God,
all debate ceassed in such wise, that the state of the realme of England did maruelouslie for
a time flourish, concord being mainteined on ech hand. [Sidenote: Polydor.] ¶ There be which
affirme, that an other cause bound king Stephan to agrée to this attonement chiefelie, namelie
for that the empresse (as they saie) was rather king Stephans paramour than his enimie: [Sidenote:
Matth. Paris. Egelaw heath.] and therefore (when she saw the matter growne to this point, that
they were readie to trie battell with their armies readie ranged on a plaine in the westerne
parts called Egelaw heath) she came secretlie vnto king Stephan, & spake unto him on this wise:
[Sidenote: The words of the empresse to K. Stephan.] "What a mischieuous and vnnaturall thing
go ye about? Is it méet that the father should destroie the sonne? Is it lawfull for the sonne
to kill the father? For the loue of God (man) refraine thy displeasure, and cast thy weapons
out of thy hand, sith that (as thou thy selfe knowest full well) Henrie is thine owne sonne."
[Sidenote: The empresse confesseth hir selfe to be naught of hir bodie.] With these and the
like words she put him in mind, and couertlie told him, that he had to doo with hir a little
before she was maried vnto earle Geffrey.

The king by such tokens as the empresse gaue him, tooke hir words to be true, and therevpon
all his malice was streightwaies quenched: so that calling foorth the archbishop of Canturburie,
he vttered to him the whole matter, and tooke therewith such direction, in sending to his aduersaries
for auoiding battell at that present, that immediatlie the armies on both sides wrapped vp
their ensignes, and euery man was commanded to kéepe the peace, that a communication might
be had about the conclusion of some pacification, which afterwards ensued in maner aboue mentioned.

¶ But whether this or some other cause moued the king to this peace, it is to be thought that
God was the worker of it. And surelie a man may thinke it good reason, that the report of such
secret companie-keeping betwixt the king and the empresse, [Sidenote: Slanders deuised by malicious
heads.] was but a tale made among the common people vpon no ground of truth, but vpon some
slanderous deuice of a malicious head. And admit that king Stephan had to doo hir; yet is it
like that both of them would doo for best to kéepe it secret, that no such reproch might be
imputed either to Henrie, who was taken to be legitimate; or to his mother, whose honour thereby
should not a little be stained.

[Sidenote: Oxenford. Ger. Dor. The King and duke méet at Dunstable.] But now to the purpose.
Shortlie after that the king and duke Henrie had béene togither at Oxenford, where they ended
all things touching the peace & concord betwixt them concluded, they met againe at Dunstable,
where some cloud of displeasure seemed to darken the bright sunshine of the late begun loue
and amitie betwixt those two mightie princes the king and the duke. [Sidenote: Articles not
performed.] For where it was accorded (among other articles) that all the castels which had
béene built since the daies of the late king Henrie for euill intents and purposes, should
be razed and throwne downe: contrarie therevnto (notwithstanding manie of them were ouerthrowne
and destroied to the accomplishment of that article) diuers through the kings permission were
suffered to stand. And when the duke complained to the king thereof, he could not get at that
time any redresse, which somewhat troubled him: but yet bicause he would not giue occasion
of any new trouble, nor offend the king, to whom (as to his reputed father) he would seeme
to yeeld all honour and due reuerence, he passeth it ouer.

[Sidenote: The king and duke come to Canturburie.] Within a while after,
the king and he came to Canturburie, where they were solemnlie receiued
of the couent of Christes church with procession. After this, in the
Lent season they went to Douer, where they talked with Theodorike earle
of Flanders, and with the countesse his wife who was aunt to duke
Henrie. At their comming towards Canturburie (as it was bruted) the duke
should haue béene murthered, [Sidenote: The enuie of the Flemings.]
through treason of the Flemings that enuied both the dukes person, and
also that peace which he had concluded with the king. But sée the hap.
As this feat should haue béene wrought on Berhamdowne, William earle of
Northfolke king Stephan his sonne, who was one of the chéefe
conspirators, fell beside his horsse, and brake his leg, so that euerie
man by that sudden chance was in a maze, & came woondering about him. ¶
This no doubt came to passe by the prouidence of God, though such
accidents are commonlie imputed to casualtie or chance medlie. For it is
the worke of God either to preuent, or to intercept, or to recompense
the vnnatural conspiracies of traitors and rebels with some notable
plague: according to that of the poet;
[Sidenote: Hesiod in lib, cui tit. op. & di.]
    [Greek: Hoi autô kaka teuchei anês allô kaka teuchôn,
    Hê de kakê boulê tô bouleusanti kakistê],
    Noxius ipse sibi est alij qui quærit obesse,
    Consiliúmq; malum danti fert maxima damna.

Duke Henrie herewith getting knowledge of the treason intended against him, or at the least
suspecting somewhat, got him backe againe to Canturburie, and so auoided the danger. After
this, taking his way to [Sidenote: Duke Henrie passeth ouer into Normandie.] Rochester, and
so to London, he got him a shipboord, and sailed by long seas into Normandie, where he arriued
in safetie.

After his departure, king Stephan spent the summer season of this yeare, in going about the
most part of the realme; shewing all the courtesie he could deuise to the people in all places
where he came; [Sidenote: Will Paru. Philip de Coleuille. The castell of Drax.] except where
he found any rebellious persons, as in Yorkshire, where Philip de Coleuille (in trust of his
castell which he had stronglie fortified at a certeine place called Drax) shewed himselfe disobedient
to the king, who assembling a power in the countrie, besieged that castell, and shortlie wanne
it, without any great adoo.

When duke Henrie was departed (as ye haue heard) and gone ouer into Normandie, now that he
had concluded a peace with king Stephan, [Sidenote: The puissance of duke Hērie.] his puissance
was thought to be such, that he was able to mainteine warres with the mightiest prince that
then reigned. For in right of his wife, he had gotten possession of the duchie of Aquitaine,
and the earledome of Poictou; and further by his mother, he enioied the duchie of Normandie,
and looked to succéed in the kingdome of England: and in right of his father he was earle of
Aniou, Thouraigne, and Maine. He also reuoked into his hands certeine parcels of his demeane
lands, which his father had giuen away, and passing from thence into Aquitaine, mightilie subdued
certeine lords and barons there, that had rebelled against him.

[Sidenote: A peace concluded betwixt the French king and duke Henrie. Matth. West.] About the
same time a peace was concluded betwixt the French king, and this duke Henrie: the king restoring
vnto the duke the townes of Newmarch and Uernon, which he had before taken from him, and the
duke giuing to the king 20000. markes of siluer, for the harmes doone by him, within the realme
of France.

But now to returne vnto king Stephan. Yee shall vnderstand, that within a while after he had
made his foresaid progresse almost about the whole realme, he returned vnto London, where he
called a parlement as well to consult of matters touching the state of the commonwealth, as
to furnish the see of Yorke with a sufficient archbishop. [Sidenote: Wil. Paru. Roger Archdeacon
of Canturburie made archbishop of Yorke.] Wherevpon one Roger that was before archdeacon of
Canturburie, was chosen to that dignitie, and consecrated the tenth day of October, by archbishop
Theobald, as legat to the pope, and not as archbishop of Canturburie. [Sidenote: Thomas Becket
archdeacon of Canturburie.] Then also was Thomas Becket made archdeacon of Canturburie by the
said Theobald. The new archbishop Roger first went to his see at Yorke, where after he had
receiued his inthronization, and set his businesse there in order, he tooke his iournie towards
Rome to fetch his pall in his owne person.

[Sidenote: The earle of Flanders.] King Stephan also after the end of the parlement went to
Douer, there to meet the earle of Flanders, who came thither to talke with him of certeine
businesse. The earle was no sooner returned backe, but the king fell sicke, and was so gréeuouslie
tormented with a paine in his bellie, and with an old disease also, wherewith (as should appear)
he had beene often troubled, namelie, the emrods, [Sidenote: King Stephan departed this life.]
that finallie he died in the abbey on the fiue and twentith day of October, in the nine and
fortith yeare of his age, and after he had reigned eighteene yeares, ten moneths, and od daies,
in the yeare after the birth of our Sauiour 1154. [Sidenote: Matth. Paris. N. Triuet.] [Sidenote:
1154.] His bodie was interred in the abbeie of Feuersham in Kent, which he had builded, where
his wife also, and his sonne Eustace were buried before. ¶ Thus farre of the acts and deeds
of Stephan; now a little of other breefe remembrances, and first touching the prosopographie
or description of his person.

[Sidenote: His stature.] He was comelie of stature, of a verie good complexion and disposition,
of great strength, in qualities of mind verie excellent, expert in warre, gentle, curteous,
and verie liberall. For though he continued all his time in a maner in the maintenance of wars,
yet he leuied but few tributs, or almost none at all. Indéed he put diuers bishops to greeuous
fines, and that not without the iust Judgement of Almightie God, that they might so be punished
duelie for their periurie committed in helping him to the crowne. Vices wherewith he should
be noted I find none, but that vpon an ambitious desire to reigne, he brake his oth which he
made vnto the empresse Maud.

[Sidenote: Abbeies founded. Coggeshall he founded himselfe, and Fontneis in Lancashire, & Feuersham
in Kent. Wil. Paruus.] In his daies, the abbeies of Tiltey, Fontneis, Rieualle, Coggeshall
in Essex, Newbourgh and Béeland, Meriuale in Warwikeshire, Garedon in Leicestershire, Kirkstéed
in Yorkeshire, with diuers other in other parts of the realme, were founded, in so much that
more abbeis were erected in his daies, than had béene within the space of an hundred yeares
before, as William Paruus writeth.

A great number of castels also were builded in his daies (as before ye haue heard) by the Nobles
of the realme, either to defend the confines of their countries from inuasions of forrenners,
and violence of homelings; or as fortifications to themselues when they ment or intended any
inrode or breaking vpon their neighbours.

Diuerse learned men namelie historiographers liued in these daies, as William Malmesburie,
Henrie Huntington, Simon Dunelmensis, Galfridus Arturius, otherwise called Monumetensis, Caradoc
Lancarnauensis, William Reuellensis, among whom Thurstan archbishop of Yorke is not to be forgotten,
besides many more who in diuerse sciences were verie expert and skilfull, as by treatises of
their setting fóorth to the world hath sufficientlie appeared.

     Thus far Stephan of Bullongne.

[2] Original reads ' o'; corrected to 'to'.

[3] Original reads 'strenghthen'; corrected to 'strengthen'.

[4] Original reads 'insused'; corrected to 'insued'.

