HISTORY OF STEAM ON THE ERIE CANAL.

Appeal for the Extension of the Act of April, 1871, "to Foster and Develop the Inland Commerce
of the State,"

FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CANALS AND THE COMMERCIAL COMMUNITY.

NEW YORK, JANUARY, 1873.

NEW YORK: EVENING POST STEAM PRESSES, 41 NASSAU STREET, COR. LIBERTY. 1873.

With Respects of the Author,

155 Broadway, N. Y.

HISTORY OF STEAM ON THE ERIE CANAL.

SCREW PROPELLERS FROM 1858 TO 1862.

During the maple sugar season of the spring of 1858, a well-to-do farmer, of western New York,
whittled out a spiral or augur-like screw-propeller, in miniature, which he thought admirably
adapted to the canal. He soon after went to Buffalo, and contracted for a boat to be built,
with two of his Archimedean screws for propulsion by steam.

Although advised by his builders to substitute the common four-bladed propellers, he adhered
to his original design, and with one propeller at either side of the rudder--called "twin-propellers"--she
was soon ready for duty. She is the vessel known to history as the Charles Wack.

She carried three-fourths cargo and towed another boat with full cargo, and made the trip from
Buffalo to West Troy in seven days, total time, averaging two miles per hour. But she returned
from Troy to Buffalo, with half freight, in four days and sixteen hours, net time; averaging
three and one-twelfth miles per hour, without tow.

This initiated the series of steamers from 1858 to 1862, and, with others that soon followed,
created a general enthusiasm in behalf of steam transportation, which led to a trip through
the canal that fall, on a chartered steam-tug, by the Governor of the State, the Canal Board,
and other notables, and with public receptions, speeches, &c., at different cities along the route.

That boat was soon followed by the S. B. Ruggles, a first-class steam canal-boat, built by
the Hon. E. S. Prosser, of Buffalo, with a first-class modern propeller, and with double the
engine capacity of the former.

The P. L. Sternburg soon followed, and was a first-class boat, with modern twin-propellers,
but with less engine capacity than the Wack.

The same season there were some local steamers built to run regularly between different cities
on the line of the canal.

The following season of 1859 was the most active year the Erie Canal has ever known in regard
to steam.

The C. Wack was sold to Mr. Prosser, who took out her Archimedean propellers, and substituted
a modern propeller, and doubled her engine capacity, and reproduced her as the City of Buffalo.

The Gold Hunter was produced by the Western Transportation Company, of Buffalo. She was a short,
oblong tub, with a square, box-like bow, and rounded stern, designed only to carry machinery
and coal, and was to be recessed into the stern of ordinary horse-boats by cutting away an
equivalent space therefrom. She was designed to make a trip on the canal, and be immediately
transferred to another boat for return trip, thus to avoid the usual loss of time at the termini
of the canal. She was abandoned after a brief trial.

The canal-boat Niagara had the Cathcart propeller supplied, which consisted of a union of the
propeller and rudder by a universal joint in the shaft, and so adjusted as to unite them for
steerage purposes. This design was tried on the steamer Cathcart, upon the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal, in 1858, and with considerable newspaper eclat.

The Rotary, of New York, was a new steamer for freighting purposes, with a rotary engine and
common propeller. This occupied but little space, and worked prettily on exhibition.

The Eclipse, of New York, was new, and had oscillating propeller engines.

SCREW-TUGS.

The Gov. King was a medium-sized New York harbor propeller, and made repeated trips with three
boats in tow, and one trip with five boats. She was so slow as to be unremunerative, as compared
with horses.

The Western Transportation Co., after the failure of the Gold Hunter, built two powerful tugs,
the Washington and Lafayette. They were soon withdrawn.

Mr. Prosser built the first-class tug, Stimers, but she had a short canal history.

The tugs, Bemis and Dan Brown, made good runs each, with three boats in tow, but were short-lived
canallers.

PADDLE-WHEELS AND OTHER DEVICES.

During these years the paddle-wheel system was thoroughly tried, and under varied circumstances.

As the locks prevented the use of side-wheels for full freights, an adjustable stern-wheel
was tried. This could be raised or lowered in adaptation to the light or full cargo.

The H. K. Viele was a first-class canal steamer, with stern-wheel and vertical, or excentric,
acting paddles. These were considered by some as peculiarly well adapted to canal purposes,
yet in practice proved otherwise.

The Fall Brook was built by Mr. John McGee, of Seneca Lake renown, for towing purposes, intending
to establish a line between Seneca Lake and New York city; but her canal abilities were so
poor as to cause her withdrawal to lake duty.

She had powerful engines, with vertical acting paddle-wheel, set amidships between twin-hulls,
with a full flow of water from bow to stern, and was decked across forward and aft of her wheel.

The Lady Jane, of Utica, was a bow paddle-wheel boat with small engines. She accomplished but
little.

As paddle-wheel canallers have proven less efficient than screw propellers they are more limited
in numbers.

Other contemporary devices were tried.

The canal-boat, Oswego, had her stern recessed to receive a submerged horizontal, centrifugal-acting
water-wheel, which received water at a central and ejected it at a periphery opening for propulsion.

This opening could be turned for steerage or backing purposes. She was altered at Green Point
and received good machinery at Brooklyn, but was soon restored to horses.

Duck's-feet paddles were experimented with at Buffalo. A scull propulsion was tried upon the
Hudson. Also hinge-bladed propellers, to open and close with a fore-and-aft movement at the
stern. This last device was tried by a Doctor Hunter, who has more recently tried a "Fish-Tail
Propeller," the blades being made of rubber, to imitate the form and elasticity of the tail,
with mechanical imitations of movement.

It is hardly necessary to add that these devices were all worthless, and others of miscellaneous
character may have been tried, yet without merit.

REMARKS.

Wealth, experience and skill have marked this first era of steam, and though combined, they
utterly failed. Both Mr. Prosser and the Western Transportation Co. were owners of fleets of
splendid lake propellers, and were wealthy, with interests intimately identified with canals.
It is evident there was no want, either of money, mechanical resources, or knowledge of canal
business as basis of their failures with steam.

Capital flowed into the steam enterprise from various resources, and ambition multiplied experiments,
but with no appreciable success.

The difficulties lay beyond the reach of capital and beyond the reach of known resources, and
no adequate knowledge had been developed to solve the problem. Therefore, after suffering failures
for several years, the State wisely volunteered to add extraordinary inducements by a large
appropriation to encourage success. It could not have been to encourage the reproduction of
former failures by the repetition of former trials.

The inquiry is therefore proper, as a lesson from the history of the early era of steam, what
are the difficulties? Why has steam failed so absolutely and so universally? Why did the State
subsequently offer a large bounty to foster and develop steam.

Obviously there is some hidden difficulty, some unknown inability, because steam is the arbiter
of the age, it is the great supreme motor of man's agencies throughout the world, hence we
come from the sublime to the ridiculous when we use it to load boats at Buffalo, to be towed
350 miles by horses.

The lessons of the early era are worthless for repetition. There is no better screw-propelling
machinery known than was then tried and abandoned; but the lessons are of value to discover
the difficulties which must be remedied; to teach that the success of steam lies beyond the
reach of publicly known mechanical resources.

The trials establish plainly and incontrovertibly that the failures were owing to the want
of mechanical adaptation to required duty; to a mechanical inability to utilize the power of
the steam; to a mechanical waste of power beyond their ability to control or remedy; and that
the wasted power was extravagantly large and the utilized insignificantly small. A very intelligent
captain of one of the best and most powerful steamers known to the Erie Canal, who had a full
and carefully-kept log, stated that when his engine exceeded a hundred horse-power of steam,
he could only equal twelve horses on the tow-path. Thus over seven-eighths of his power was
wastefully developed in order to render one-eighth useful. But this occurred when he was moving
only two loaded boats--the steamer and one in tow--but when moving four boats--three in tow--the
percentage of utility was lessened, and he could not exceed eight to ten per cent. of his steam,
as shown in slower movement, when fewer horses on the tow-path could equal him.

The steamer is a reservoir, and its rotatory power is free to be developed "inversely as its
resistances." Hence, when fastened to a pier, it is all developed in its receding currents,
and per contra when moving; if its machinery had a perfect fulcrum, it would all be developed
in the run of the boat; consequently, on rivers and lakes, with fine-lined steamers, that cut
the water like a knife, it is like standing in a small boat and pushing from a large one, but
on canals, with their full bows, it is like standing in a large boat and pushing from a small
one; the little one runs away with the power. The more than 100 square feet area of immersed
section of the full bow represents the large boat, and the dozen square feet effective area
of propeller blades, set at an easy angle for spiral motion and recession velocity, is the
little one that squanders the power so extravagantly. Increase in number of boats increases
this contrast. The propeller blades of a good canaller will move twelve to fifteen miles, in
their line of spiral movement, to get two to three miles headway for the boat.

A correct scientific analysis can trace the developments of the eighty-five to ninety per cent.
of the inherent power of the steam that is wasted on the common canal-boat, and that has no
resultant effect whatever in the motion of the boat, just as positively as it can trace the
co-developments of fifteen to ten per cent. that is utilized and that moves the boat.

The practical man sees the truths of these statements. He sees steam used with small, medium
and large engines for canal purposes, and sees them all fail to meet the economy of transportation
established by horses; but he would just as soon put men on the tow-path to compete with horses
as to put horses into his elevators to compete with steam; and that, because in the elevators
the power of the steam is chiefly utilized, whilst on the canal it is chiefly wasted.

It is therefore conclusive that there is an absolute necessity for a NEW MECHANICAL SYSTEM,
for a radically different system of transmissive mechanism, for a system that can develop a
considerable portion of the power of the steam in the movement of boats.

