A COMPILATION OF THE MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF THE PRESIDENTS,

VOLUME V, PART 1

BY JAMES D. RICHARDSON

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE STATE OF TENNESSEE

1902

This volume, the fifth of the series, comprises a period of twelve years. It includes the four
years' term of the Taylor-Fillmore Administration and the full terms of Presidents Pierce and
Buchanan. This brings the history down to March 4, 1861, the beginning of the late war between
the States. These twelve years form an important and eventful epoch in the affairs of our country,
as they immediately precede the war and cover the official utterances of the Executives during
this period. Some of the more important events and incidents of these twelve years are the
Bulwer-Clayton treaty with Great Britain for a joint occupancy of the proposed ship canal through
Central America; the compromise measures of 1850; the admission of California, Minnesota, Oregon,
and Kansas as States; the Gadsden purchase, by which the United States acquired 45,535 square
miles of territory, being portions of Arizona and New Mexico; the Kansas-Nebraska legislation;
the famous Dred Scott decision; the John Brown insurrection, and the disruption of the Democratic
party in the national campaign of 1860.

This volume contains several veto messages which are interesting. By President Buchanan, vetoes
of an act granting lands for agricultural purposes; of two acts relating to internal improvements,
and of a homestead act.

Interesting reading is furnished in the protests of President Buchanan
against the action of the House of Representatives in ordering the
appointment of a committee to investigate the conduct of the President.
 The careful reader will find in this volume errors which the compiler
could not correct. For instance, on page 410 certain figures are given
from a report of the Postmaster-General, which when added do not produce
the total given. The error may arise from the failure to make the proper
addition, or it may be that the total is correct and that the figures
first given are incorrect. The original message contains the same error.
Similar errors occur elsewhere in the compilation. These matters are,
however, trivial and perhaps need not have been mentioned.

JAMES D. RICHARDSON. JULY 4, 1897.

Zachary Taylor

March 5, 1849, to July 9, 1850

Zachary Taylor

Zachary Taylor was born in Orange County, Va., November 24, 1784. He was the third son of Richard
Taylor, a colonel in the War of the Revolution, who was conspicuous for his zeal and courage.
In 1785 his father removed to Kentucky, then a sparsely occupied county of Virginia, and made
his home near the present city of Louisville, where he died. Zachary had but little opportunity
for attending school in this new settlement, but was surrounded during all the years of his
childhood and early manhood by conditions and circumstances well adapted to form the character
illustrated by his eventful career. In 1808 he was appointed a Lieutenant in the Seventh Infantry,
and in 1810 was promoted to the grade of captain in the same regiment. The same year was married
to Miss Margaret Smith, of Maryland. For meritorious conduct in defending Fort Harrison, on
the Wabash River, against the Indians received the brevet of major. In 1814 commanded in a
campaign against hostile Indians and their British allies on Rock River. Was made lieutenant-colonel
of the First Infantry in 1819, and in 1832 became full colonel of that regiment, with headquarters
at Fort Crawford, Prairie du Chien. Was occupied with his regiment fighting the Indians in
the Black Hawk and other campaigns until 1836, when he was transferred to Florida for service
in the Seminole War. For gallant conduct there the next year received the brevet of brigadier-general,
and in 1838 was appointed to the chief command in Florida. In 1840 was assigned to command
the southern division of the western department of the Army. About this time he made his family
home at Baton Rouge, La. In 1845 was ordered to the defense of Texas, which had been annexed
to the United States. He went to Corpus Christi, and on March 8, 1846, advanced, and after
some fighting, in which he routed and drove the enemy across the Rio Grande, on May 18 occupied
Matamoras. He remained there for a short period, obtaining reenforcements. In September fought
the enemy at Monterey and captured that town. The following February fought and won the battle
of Buena Vista. In the meantime, besides engagements less important, he had won the victories
of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma, which created great enthusiasm throughout the Union. The
terms of capitulation granted by him to the enemy at Monterey were not approved by the Government
at Washington. Soon after the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma he received the rank
of brevet major-general, and on June 27, 1846, was appointed major-general and was commander
in chief of all the American forces in Mexico until Major-General Scott was ordered there in
1846. The latter part of November returned to his home in Louisiana. Upon his return to the
United States he was received wherever he went with popular demonstrations. Was nominated for
President by the national convention of the Whig party at Philadelphia on June 7, 1848, on
the fourth ballot, defeating General Scott, Mr. Clay, and Mr. Webster. At the election on November
7 the Whig ticket (Taylor and Fillmore) was successful, receiving 163 electoral votes, while
the Democratic candidates (Cass and Butler) each received 127 votes. He was inaugurated March
5, 1849, and died in Washington City July 9, 1850. Was buried in Cave Hill Cemetery, Louisville,
Ky.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

Elected by the American people to the highest office known to our laws, I appear here to take
the oath prescribed by the Constitution, and, in compliance with a time-honored custom, to
address those who are now assembled.

The confidence and respect shown by my countrymen in calling me to be the Chief Magistrate
of a Republic holding a high rank among the nations of the earth have inspired me with feelings
of the most profound gratitude; but when I reflect that the acceptance of the office which
their partiality has bestowed imposes the discharge of the most arduous duties and involves
the weightiest obligations, I am conscious that the position which I have been called to fill,
though sufficient to satisfy the loftiest ambition, is surrounded by fearful responsibilities.
Happily, however, in the performance of my new duties I shall not be without able cooperation.
The legislative and judicial branches of the Government present prominent examples of distinguished
civil attainments and matured experience, and it shall be my endeavor to call to my assistance
in the Executive Departments individuals whose talents, integrity, and purity of character
will furnish ample guaranties for the faithful and honorable performance of the trusts to be
committed to their charge. With such aids and an honest purpose to do whatever is right, I
hope to execute diligently, impartially, and for the best interests of the country the manifold
duties devolved upon me.

In the discharge of these duties my guide will be the Constitution, which I this day swear
to "preserve, protect, and defend." For the interpretation of that instrument I shall look
to the decisions of the judicial tribunals established by its authority and to the practice
of the Government under the earlier Presidents, who had so large a share in its formation.
To the example of those illustrious patriots I shall always defer with reverence, and especially
to his example who was by so many titles "the Father of his Country."

To command the Army and Navy of the United States; with the advice and consent of the Senate,
to make treaties and to appoint ambassadors and other officers; to give to Congress information
of the state of the Union and recommend such measures as he shall judge to be necessary; and
to take care that the laws shall be faithfully executed--these are the most important functions
intrusted to the President by the Constitution, and it may be expected that I shall briefly
indicate the principles which will control me in their execution.

Chosen by the body of the people under the assurance that my Administration would be devoted
to the welfare of the whole country, and not to the support of any particular section or merely
local interest, I this day renew the declarations I have heretofore made and proclaim my fixed
determination to maintain to the extent of my ability the Government in its original purity
and to adopt as the basis of my public policy those great republican doctrines which constitute
the strength of our national existence.

In reference to the Army and Navy, lately employed with so much distinction on active service,
care shall be taken to insure the highest condition of efficiency, and in furtherance of that
object the military and naval schools, sustained by the liberality of Congress, shall receive
the special attention of the Executive.

As American freemen we can not but sympathize in all efforts to extend the blessings of civil
and political liberty, but at the same time we are warned by the admonitions of history and
the voice of our own beloved Washington to abstain from entangling alliances with foreign nations.
In all disputes between conflicting governments it is our interest not less than our duty to
remain strictly neutral, while our geographical position, the genius of our institutions and
our people, the advancing spirit of civilization, and, above all, the dictates of religion
direct us to the cultivation of peaceful and friendly relations with all other powers. It is
to be hoped that no international question can now arise which a government confident in its
own strength and resolved to protect its own just rights may not settle by wise negotiation;
and it eminently becomes a government like our own, founded on the morality and intelligence
of its citizens and upheld by their affections, to exhaust every resort of honorable diplomacy
before appealing to arms. In the conduct of our foreign relations I shall conform to these
views, as I believe them essential to the best interests and the true honor of the country.

The appointing power vested in the President imposes delicate and onerous duties. So far as
it is possible to be informed, I shall make honesty, capacity, and fidelity indispensable prerequisites
to the bestowal of office, and the absence of either of these qualities shall be deemed sufficient
cause for removal.

It shall be my study to recommend such constitutional measures to Congress as may be necessary
and proper to secure encouragement and protection to the great interests of agriculture, commerce,
and manufactures, to improve our rivers and harbors, to provide for the speedy extinguishment
of the public debt, to enforce a strict accountability on the part of all officers of the Government
and the utmost economy in all public expenditures; but it is for the wisdom of Congress itself,
in which all legislative powers are vested by the Constitution, to regulate these and other
matters of domestic policy. I shall look with confidence to the enlightened patriotism of that
body to adopt such measures of conciliation as may harmonize conflicting interests and tend
to perpetuate that Union which should be the paramount object of our hopes and affections.
In any action calculated to promote an object so near the heart of everyone who truly loves
his country I will zealously unite with the coordinate branches of the Government.

In conclusion I congratulate you, my fellow-citizens, upon the high state of prosperity to
which the goodness of Divine Providence has conducted our common country. Let us invoke a continuance
of the same protecting care which has led us from small beginnings to the eminence we this
day occupy, and let us seek to deserve that continuance by prudence and moderation in our councils,
by well-directed attempts to assuage the bitterness which too often marks unavoidable differences
of opinion, by the promulgation and practice of just and liberal principles, and by an enlarged
patriotism, which shall acknowledge no limits but those of our own widespread Republic.

MARCH 5, 1849.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, March 13, 1849.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith communicate to the Senate, in confidence, a report and accompanying papers[1a] from
the Secretary of State, in answer to its resolution of the 12th instant.

[Footnote 1a: Instructions to United States minister at London relative to further extension
of reciprocity and equality in the laws of navigation, and contemplating the opening of the
coasting trade of the United States to the vessels of other nations.]

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 20, 1849.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of yesterday, passed in executive session, requesting
a communication of certain papers relative to the amendments made by the Senate to the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo, I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents by
which it was accompanied. It is desirable that the latter should be returned to the Department
of State.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 22, 1849.

Z. TAYLOR.

PROCLAMATION.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

There is reason to believe that an armed expedition is about to be fitted out in the United
States with an intention to invade the island of Cuba or some of the Provinces of Mexico. The
best information which the Executive has been able to obtain points to the island of Cuba as
the object of this expedition. It is the duty of this Government to observe the faith of treaties
and to prevent any aggression by our citizens upon the territories of friendly nations. I have
therefore thought it necessary and proper to issue this my proclamation to warn all citizens
of the United States who shall connect themselves with an enterprise so grossly in violation
of our laws and our treaty obligations that they will thereby subject themselves to the heavy
penalties denounced against them by our acts of Congress and will forfeit their claim to the
protection of their country. No such persons must expect the interference of this Government
in any form on their behalf, no matter to what extremities they may be reduced in consequence
of their conduct.

Given under my hand the 11th day of August, A.D. 1849, and the seventy-fourth of the Independence
of the United States.

Z. TAYLOR.

By the President:
  J.M. CLAYTON,
    Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE ORDER.

GENERAL ORDERS, No. 34.

WAR DEPARTMENT,

ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

Washington, June 19, 1849.

I. The following orders of the President of the United States and Secretary of War communicate
to the Army the death of the late ex-President, James K. Polk:

WASHINGTON, June 19, 1849.

The President with deep regret announces to the American people the death of James K. Polk,
late President of the United States, which occurred at Nashville on the 15th instant.

A nation is suddenly called upon to mourn the loss of one the recollection of whose long services
in its councils will be forever preserved on the tablets of history.

As a mark of respect to the memory of a citizen who has been distinguished by the highest honors
which his country could bestow, it is ordered that the Executive Mansion and the several Departments
at Washington be immediately placed in mourning and all business be suspended during to-morrow.

Z. TAYLOR.

WAR DEPARTMENT, June 19, 1849.

The President of the United States with deep regret announces to the Army the death of James
K. Polk, our distinguished and honored fellow-citizen.

He died at Nashville the 15th instant, having but recently left the theater of his high public
duties at this capital and retired to his home amid the congratulations of his fellow-citizens.
He died in the prime of life, after having received and enjoyed the highest honors of the Republic.

His Administration was eventful. No branch of the Government will be more intimately associated
with it in history than the Army and its glorious achievements. Accordingly, the President
orders that appropriate military honors shall be paid to his memory by the Army of the United
States.

The Adjutant-General will give the necessary instructions for carrying into effect the foregoing
orders.

G.W. CRAWFORD,

Secretary of War.

II.

By order:

R. JONES,

Adjutant-General.

FIRST ANNUAL MESSAGE.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, December 17, 1849. A copy of a dispatch from Mr. Tod, the United States minister
at Rio de Janeiro, relative to the convention is also herewith communicated. As it is understood
that the Emperor's ratification is ready to be exchanged for that of the United States, and
as the period limited for the exchange will expire on the 27th of next month, it is desirable
that the decision of the Senate in regard to the instrument should be known as soon as may
be convenient.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, December 21, 1849.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1849.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In consequence of the unexpected delay in proceeding to business, I deem it necessary to invite
the immediate attention of Congress to so much of the report of the Secretary of the Treasury
as relates to the appropriations required for the expenses of collecting the revenue for the
second half of the current fiscal year.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, January 4, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I herewith submit to you copies of a correspondence with the lady of Sir John Franklin, relative
to the well-known expedition under his command to the arctic regions for the discovery of a
northwest passage. On the receipt of her first letter imploring the aid of the American Government
in a search for the missing ships engaged in an enterprise which interested all civilized nations,
I anxiously sought the means of affording that assistance, but was prevented from accomplishing
the object I had in view in consequence of the want of vessels suitable to encounter the perils
of a proper exploration, the lateness of the season, and the want of an appropriation by Congress
to enable me to furnish and equip an efficient squadron for that object. All that I could do
in compliance with a request which I was deeply anxious to gratify was to cause the advertisements
of reward promulged by the British Government and the best information I could obtain as to
the means of finding the vessels under the command of Sir John Franklin to be widely circulated
among our whalers and seafaring men whose spirit of enterprise might lead them to the inhospitable
regions where that heroic officer and his brave followers, who periled their lives in the cause
of science and for the benefit of the world, were supposed to be imprisoned among the icebergs
or wrecked upon a desert shore.

Congress being now in session, the propriety and expediency of an appropriation for fitting
out an expedition to proceed in search of the missing ships, with their officers and crews,
is respectfully submitted to your consideration.

Z. TAYLOR.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE, January 14, 1850.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES.

SIR: I transmit herewith, to be laid before the Senate for its constitutional action thereon,
a treaty concluded with the half-breeds of the Dacotah or Sioux Indians for lands reserved
for them in the treaty of July 15, 1830, with the Sioux and other Indians, with accompanying
papers.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, January 14, 1850.

[Footnote 2a: By the Spanish consul at New Orleans.]

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, January 14, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate, for their consideration, a copy of a correspondence between the Department
of State and the chargé d'affaires of Austria near this Government, on the subject of the convention
for the extension of certain stipulations contained in the treaty of commerce and navigation
of August 27, 1829, between the United States and Austria, concluded and signed on the 8th
of May, 1848, and submitted to the Senate on the same day by my predecessor.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, January 23, 1850.

On coming into office I found the military commandant of the Department of California exercising
the functions of civil governor in that Territory, and left, as I was, to act under the treaty
of Guadalupe Hidalgo, without the aid of any legislative provision establishing a government
in that Territory, I thought it best not to disturb that arrangement, made under my predecessor,
until Congress should take some action on that subject. I therefore did not interfere with
the powers of the military commandant, who continued to exercise the functions of civil governor
as before; but I made no such appointment, conferred no such authority, and have allowed no
increased compensation to the commandant for his services.

With a view to the faithful execution of the treaty so far as lay in the power of the Executive,
and to enable Congress to act at the present session with as full knowledge and as little difficulty
as possible on all matters of interest in these Territories, I sent the Hon. Thomas Butler
King as bearer of dispatches to California, and certain officers to California and New Mexico,
whose duties are particularly defined in the accompanying letters of instruction addressed
to them severally by the proper Departments.

I did not hesitate to express to the people of those Territories my desire that each Territory
should, if prepared to comply with the requisitions of the Constitution of the United States,
form a plan of a State constitution and submit the same to Congress with a prayer for admission
into the Union as a State, but I did not anticipate, suggest, or authorize the establishment
of any such government without the assent of Congress, nor did I authorize any Government agent
or officer to interfere with or exercise any influence or control over the election of delegates
or over any convention in making or modifying their domestic institutions or any of the provisions
of their proposed constitution. On the contrary, the instructions given by my orders were that
all measures of domestic policy adopted by the people of California must originate solely with
themselves; that while the Executive of the United States was desirous to protect them in the
formation of any government republican in its character, to be at the proper time submitted
to Congress, yet it was to be distinctly understood that the plan of such a government must
at the same time be the result of their own deliberate choice and originate with themselves,
without the interference of the Executive.

I am unable to give any information as to laws passed by any supposed government in California
or of any census taken in either of the Territories mentioned in the resolution, as I have
no information on those subjects.

As already stated, I have not disturbed the arrangements which I found had existed under my
predecessor.

In advising an early application by the people of these Territories for admission as States
I was actuated principally by an earnest desire to afford to the wisdom and patriotism of Congress
the opportunity of avoiding occasions of bitter and angry dissensions among the people of the
United States.

Under the Constitution every State has the right of establishing and from time to time altering
its municipal laws and domestic institutions independently of every other State and of the
General Government, subject only to the prohibitions and guaranties expressly set forth in
the Constitution of the United States. The subjects thus left exclusively to the respective
States were not designed or expected to become topics of national agitation. Still, as under
the Constitution Congress has power to make all needful rules and regulations respecting the
Territories of the United States, every new acquisition of territory has led to discussions
on the question whether the system of involuntary servitude which prevails in many of the States
should or should not be prohibited in that territory. The periods of excitement from this cause
which have heretofore occurred have been safely passed, but during the interval, of whatever
length, which may elapse before the admission of the Territories ceded by Mexico as States
it appears probable that similar excitement will prevail to an undue extent.

Under these circumstances I thought, and still think, that it was my duty to endeavor to put
it in the power of Congress, by the admission of California and New Mexico as States, to remove
all occasion for the unnecessary agitation of the public mind.

It is understood that the people of the western part of California have formed a plan of a
State constitution and will soon submit the same to the judgment of Congress and apply for
admission as a State. This course on their part, though in accordance with, was not adopted
exclusively in consequence of, any expression of my wishes, inasmuch as measures tending to
this end had been promoted by the officers sent there by my predecessor, and were already in
active progress of execution before any communication from me reached California. If the proposed
constitution shall, when submitted to Congress, be found to be in compliance with the requisitions
of the Constitution of the United States, I earnestly recommend that it may receive the sanction
of Congress.

The part of California not included in the proposed State of that name is believed to be uninhabited,
except in a settlement of our countrymen in the vicinity of Salt Lake.

A claim has been advanced by the State of Texas to a very large portion of the most populous
district of the Territory commonly designated by the name of New Mexico. If the people of New
Mexico had formed a plan of a State government for that Territory as ceded by the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, and had been admitted by Congress as a State, our Constitution would have
afforded the means of obtaining an adjustment of the question of boundary with Texas by a judicial
decision. At present, however, no judicial tribunal has the power of deciding that question,
and it remains for Congress to devise some mode for its adjustment. Meanwhile I submit to Congress
the question whether it would be expedient before such adjustment to establish a Territorial
government, which by including the district so claimed would practically decide the question
adversely to the State of Texas, or by excluding it would decide it in her favor. In my opinion
such a course would not be expedient, especially as the people of this Territory still enjoy
the benefit and protection of their municipal laws originally derived from Mexico and have
a military force stationed there to protect them against the Indians. It is undoubtedly true
that the property, lives, liberties, and religion of the people of New Mexico are better protected
than they ever were before the treaty of cession.

Should Congress, when California shall present herself for incorporation into the Union, annex
a condition to her admission as a State affecting her domestic institutions contrary to the
wishes of her people, and even compel her temporarily to comply with it, yet the State could
change her constitution at any time after admission when to her it should seem expedient. Any
attempt to deny to the people of the State the right of self-government in a matter which peculiarly
affects themselves will infallibly be regarded by them as an invasion of their rights, and,
upon the principles laid down in our own Declaration of Independence, they will certainly be
sustained by the great mass of the American people. To assert that they are a conquered people
and must as a State submit to the will of their conquerors in this regard will meet with no
cordial response among American freemen. Great numbers of them are native citizens of the United
States, not inferior to the rest of our countrymen in intelligence and patriotism, and no language
of menace to restrain them in the exercise of an undoubted right, substantially guaranteed
to them by the treaty of cession itself, shall ever be uttered by me or encouraged and sustained
by persons acting under my authority. It is to be expected that in the residue of the territory
ceded to us by Mexico the people residing there will at the time of their incorporation into
the Union as a State settle all questions of domestic policy to suit themselves.

No material inconvenience will result from the want for a short period of a government established
by Congress over that part of the territory which lies eastward of the new State of California;
and the reasons for my opinion that New Mexico will at no very distant period ask for admission
into the Union are founded on unofficial information which, I suppose, is common to all who
have cared to make inquiries on that subject.

Seeing, then, that the question which now excites such painful sensations in the country will
in the end certainly be settled by the silent effect of causes independent of the action of
Congress, I again submit to your wisdom the policy recommended in my annual message of awaiting
the salutary operation of those causes, believing that we shall thus avoid the creation of
geographical parties and secure the harmony of feeling so necessary to the beneficial action
of our political system. Connected, as the Union is, with the remembrance of past happiness,
the sense of present blessings, and the hope of future peace and prosperity, every dictate
of wisdom, every feeling of duty, and every emotion of patriotism tend to inspire fidelity
and devotion to it and admonish us cautiously to avoid any unnecessary controversy which can
either endanger it or impair its strength, the chief element of which is to be found in the
regard and affection of the people for each other.

Z. TAYLOR.

[A similar message, dated January 21, 1850, was sent to the House of Representatives, in answer
to a resolution of that body.]

WASHINGTON, January 23, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate a copy of the convention between the United States and His Majesty
the Emperor of Brazil, providing for the satisfaction of claims of citizens of the United States
against the Brazilian Government, signed at Rio de Janeiro on the 27th of January last, and
the ratifications of which were exchanged in this city on the 18th instant. It is desirable
that Congress should prescribe the mode in which the claims referred to are to be adjusted
and the money stipulated to be paid by Brazil shall be distributed amongst the claimants. Extracts
from dispatches of the minister of the United States at Rio de Janeiro and a copy of a letter
from an agent of claimants there are also herewith communicated, to which your attention is
invited. I have authorized our minister to demand, receive, and give acquittances for the amount
payable by Brazil, and have caused him to be instructed to remit the same to the Treasury of
the United States.

Z. TAYLOR.

[The same message was sent to the House of Representatives.]

WASHINGTON, January 30, 1850 .

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to the resolution of the Senate of the 7th instant, requesting of me all the official
correspondence since the 4th of March last between this Government and its military authorities
at Santa Fe or with the authorities of the State of Texas relating to the boundary or occupation
of Texas, and the reasons why the judicial authority of Texas has not been recognized by the
military authority at Santa Fe, I herewith submit the accompanying reports, which contain the
information called for by the resolution.

I have not been informed of any acts of interference by the military forces stationed at Santa
Fe with the judicial authority of Texas established or sought to be established there. I have
received no communication from the governor of Texas on any of the matters referred to in the
resolution. And I concur in the opinion expressed by my predecessor in the letter addressed
by the late Secretary of State to the governor of Texas on the 12th day of February, 1847,
that the boundary between the State of Texas and the Territory of New Mexico "is a subject
which more properly belongs to the legislative than to the executive branch of the Government."

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to the resolution of the Senate of the 28th ultimo, I have to state that the resolution
of the Senate of the 2d of March, 1849, respecting James W. Schaumburg, was in April of that
year submitted for the opinion of the Attorney-General upon questions arising in the case.
No opinion had been given by him when it became necessary, prior to the meeting of the Senate,
to prepare the nominations for promotions in the Army. The nomination of Lieutenant Ewell was
then decided upon, after due consideration was given to the resolution of the Senate of the
2d of March, 1849.

I herewith submit a report from the Secretary of War, showing the grounds upon which the decision
above referred to was made.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1850.

The information called for by this resolution will be cheerfully communicated to the Senate
as soon as it shall be found to be compatible with the public interest.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1850.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I have received a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 24th ultimo, requesting
the President of the United States "to communicate to that body (provided the publication thereof
be not prejudicial to the public interest) all such information as may be within the knowledge
of the executive department relative to the alleged extraordinary proceedings of the English
Government in the forcible seizure and occupation of the island of Tigre, in the State of Nicaragua,
Central America; also all facts, circumstances, or communications within the knowledge of the
Executive relative to any seizure, occupation, or attempted seizure or occupation, by the English
Government of any port, river, town, territory, or island belonging to or claimed by any of
the States of Central America; also that he be requested to communicate to this House, if not
incompatible with the public interest, all treaties not heretofore published which may have
been negotiated with any of the States of Central America by any person acting by authority
from the late Administration or under the auspices of the present Executive."

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 1, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to the resolution of the Senate of the 12th ultimo, requesting the President of the
United States "to inform the Senate of the amount of prize money paid into the Treasury in
conformity with the eighteenth section of the act of March 3, 1849," etc., I transmit herewith
a report from the Secretary of the Navy, with accompanying documents.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 4, 1850.

[Footnote 3a: Navigation laws and tariff on British productions.]

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 6, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the inquiries contained in the resolution of the Senate of the 4th instant, in
relation to the appointment of postmasters by the Postmaster-General, I send to the Senate
herewith the letter of the Postmaster-General furnishing the desired information.

Z. TAYLOR.

MARCH 8, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

The Postmaster-General has this day communicated to me the letter herewith transmitted, in
addition to his communication by me sent to the Senate on the 6th instant, in relation to the
inquiries contained in the resolution of the Senate as to the appointment of postmasters.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 19, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration and constitutional action of the Senate, a communication
from the Secretary of the Interior, covering two treaties with Indians of New Mexico, one negotiated
with the Navajo tribe on the 9th of September last by Colonel John Washington, of the Army,
and J.S. Calhoun, United States Indian agent at Santa Fe, and the other with the Utah tribe,
negotiated by J.S. Calhoun on the 13th of December last.

I also transmit, for the advice of the Senate in regard to its ratification, "a general treaty
of amity, navigation, and commerce" negotiated by Mr. Squier with the Republic of San Salvador.

I also transmit to the Senate a copy of the instructions to and correspondence with the said
chargé d'affaires relating to those treaties.

I also transmit, for the advice of the Senate in regard to its ratification, "a general treaty
of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation" negotiated by Elijah Hise, our late chargé d'affaires,
with the State of Guatemala.

I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, a copy of a treaty negotiated by Mr. Hise
with the Government of Nicaragua on the 21st of June last, accompanied by copies of his instructions
from and correspondence with the Department of State.

On the 12th day of November, 1847, Señor Buétrago, secretary of state and of the affairs of
war and foreign relations and domestic administration of the Supreme Government of the State
of Nicaragua, addressed a letter from the Government House at Leon to Mr. Buchanan, then Secretary
of State of the United States, asking the friendly offices of this Government to prevent an
attack upon the town of San Juan de Nicaragua, then contemplated by the British authorities
as the allies of the Mosquito King. That letter, a translation of which is herewith sent, distinctly
charges that--

   The object of the British in taking this key of the continent is not
to protect the small tribe of the Mosquitos, but to establish their own
empire over the Atlantic extremity of the line, by which a canal
connecting the two oceans is most practicable, insuring to them the
preponderance on the American continent, as well as their direct
relations with Asia, the East Indies, and other important countries in
the world.

No answer appears to have been returned to this letter.

A communication was received by my predecessor from Don José Guerrero, President and Supreme
Director of the State of Nicaragua, dated the 15th day of December, 1847, expressing his desire
to establish relations of amity and commerce with the United States, a translation of which
is herewith inclosed. In this the President of Nicaragua says:

  My desire was carried to the utmost on seeing in your message at
  the opening of the Twenty-ninth Congress of your Republic a sincere
  profession of political faith in all respects conformable with the
  principles professed by these States, determined, as they are, to
  sustain with firmness the continental cause, the rights of Americans in
  general, and the noninterference of European powers in their concerns.

This letter announces the critical situation in which Nicaragua was placed and charges upon
the Court of St. James a "well-known design to establish colonies on the coast of Nicaragua
and to render itself master of the interoceanic canal, for which so many facilities are presented
by the isthmus in that State." No reply was made to this letter.

The British ships of war Alarm and Vixen arrived at San Juan de Nicaragua on the 8th day of
February, 1848, and on the 12th of that month the British forces, consisting of 260 officers
and men, attacked and captured the post of Serapaqui, garrisoned, according to the British
statements, by about 200 soldiers, after a sharp action of one hour and forty minutes.

On the 7th day of March, 1848, articles of agreement were concluded by Captain Locke, on the
part of Great Britain, with the commissioners of the State of Nicaragua in the island of Cuba,
in the Lake of Nicaragua, a copy of which will be found in the correspondence relating to the
Mosquito Territory presented to and published by the House of Commons of Great Britain on the
3d day of July, 1848, herewith submitted. A copy of the same document will also be found accompanying
the note of the minister for foreign affairs of Nicaragua to the Secretary of State of the
United States under date the 17th March, 1848.

By the third article of the agreement it is provided that Nicaragua "shall not disturb the
inhabitants of San Juan, understanding that any such act will be considered by Great Britain
as a declaration of open hostilities." By the sixth article it is provided that these articles
of agreement will not "hinder Nicaragua from soliciting by means of a commissioner to Her Britannic
Majesty a final arrangement of these affairs."

The communication from Señor Sebastian Salinas, the secretary of foreign affairs of the State
of Nicaragua, to Mr. Buchanan, the Secretary of State of the United States, dated 17th March,
1848, a translation of which is herewith submitted, recites the aggressions of Great Britain
and the seizure of a part of the Nicaraguan territory in the name of the Mosquito King. No
answer appears to have been given to this letter.

On the 28th day of October, 1847, Joseph W. Livingston was appointed by this Government consul
of the United States for the port of San Juan de Nicaragua. On the 16th day of December, 1847,
after having received his exequatur from the Nicaraguan Government, he addressed a letter to
Mr. Buchanan, Secretary of State, a copy of which is herewith submitted, representing that
he had been informed that the English Government would take possession of San Juan de Nicaragua
in January, 1848.

In another letter, dated the 8th of April, 1848, Mr. Livingston states that "at the request
of the minister for foreign affairs of Nicaragua he transmits a package of papers containing
the correspondence relative to the occupation of the port of San Juan by British forces in
the name of the Mosquito nation."

On the 3d day of June, 1848, Elijah Hise, being appointed chargé d'affaires of the United States
to Guatemala, received his instructions, a copy of which is herewith submitted. In these instructions
the following passages occur:

  The independence as well as the interests of the nations on this
  continent require that they should maintain the American system of
  policy entirely distinct from that which prevails in Europe. To
  suffer any interference on the part of the European Governments with
  the domestic concerns of the American Republics and to permit them
  to establish new colonies upon this continent would be to jeopard
  their independence and to ruin their interests. These truths ought
  everywhere throughout this continent to be impressed on the public
  mind. But what can the United States do to resist such European
  interference whilst the Spanish American Republics continue to weaken
  themselves by division and civil war and deprive themselves of the
  ability of doing anything for their own protection?

These instructions, which also state the dissolution of the Central American Republic, formerly
composed of the five States of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Honduras, San Salvador, and Guatemala,
and their continued separation, authorize Mr. Hise to conclude treaties of commerce with the
Republics of Guatemala and San Salvador, but conclude with saying that it was not deemed advisable
to empower Mr. Hise to conclude a treaty with either Nicaragua, Honduras, or Costa Rica until
more full and statistical information should have been communicated by him to the Department
in regard to those States than that which it possesses.

The States of Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Honduras are the only Central American States whose
consent or cooperation would in any event be necessary for the construction of the ship canal
contemplated between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans by the way of Lake Nicaragua.

In pursuance of the sixth article of the agreement of the 7th of March, 1848, between the forces
of Great Britain and the authorities of Nicaragua, Señor Francisco Castillon was appointed
commissioner from Nicaragua to Great Britain, and on the 5th day of November, 1848, while at
Washington on his way to London, addressed a letter to the Secretary of State, a translation
of which is herewith submitted, asking this Government to instruct its minister plenipotentiary
residing in London to sustain the right of Nicaragua to her territory claimed by Mosquito,
and especially to the port of San Juan, expressing the hope of Nicaragua "that the Government
of the Union, firmly adhering to its principle of resisting all foreign intervention in America,
would not hesitate to order such steps to be taken as might be effective before things reached
a point in which the intervention of the United States would prove of no avail."

To this letter also no answer appears to have been returned, and no instructions were given
to our minister in London in pursuance of the request contained in it.

On the 3d day of March, 1847, Christopher Hempstead was appointed consul at Belize, and an
application was then made for his exequatur through our minister in London, Mr. Bancroft. Lord
Palmerston referred Mr. Bancroft's application for an exequatur for Mr. Hempstead to the colonial
office. The exequatur was granted, and Mr. Hempstead, in a letter to the Department of State
bearing date the 12th day of February, 1848, a copy of which is herewith submitted, acknowledged
the receipt of his exequatur from Her Britannic Majesty, by virtue of which he has discharged
his consular functions. Thus far this Government has recognized the existence of a British
colony at Belize, within the territory of Honduras. I have recalled the consul, and have appointed
no one to supply his place.

On the 26th day of May, 1848, Mr. Hempstead represented in a letter to the Department of State
that the Indians had "applied to Her Majesty's superintendent at Belize for protection, and
had desired him to take possession of the territory which they occupied and take them under
his protection as British subjects;" and he added that in the event of the success of their
application "the British Government would then have possession of the entire coast from Cape
Conte to San Juan de Nicaragua." In another letter, dated the 29th day of July, 1848, he wrote:

  I have not a doubt but the designs of Her Majesty's officers here and
  on the Mosquito shore are to obtain territory on this continent.

The receipt of this letter was regularly acknowledged on the 29th day of August, 1848.

When I came into office I found the British Government in possession of the port of San Juan,
which it had taken by force of arms after we had taken possession of California and while we
were engaged in the negotiation of a treaty for the cession of it, and that no official remonstrance
had been made by this Government against the aggression, nor any attempt to resist it. Efforts
were then being made by certain private citizens of the United States to procure from the State
of Nicaragua by contract the right to cut the proposed ship canal by the way of the river San
Juan and the lakes of Nicaragua and Managua to Realejo, on the Pacific Ocean. A company of
American citizens entered into such a contract with the State of Nicaragua. Viewing the canal
as a matter of great importance to the people of the United States, I resolved to adopt the
policy of protecting the work and binding the Government of Nicaragua, through whose territory
it would pass, also to protect it. The instructions to E. George Squier, appointed by me chargé
d'affaires to Guatemala on the 2d day of April, 1849, are herewith submitted, as fully indicating
the views which governed me in directing a treaty to be made with Nicaragua. I considered the
interference of the British Government on this continent in seizing the port of San Juan, which
commanded the route believed to be the most eligible for the canal across the Isthmus, and
occupying it at the very moment when it was known, as I believe, to Great Britain that we were
engaged in the negotiation for the purchase of California, as an unfortunate coincidence, and
one calculated to lead to the inference that she entertained designs by no means in harmony
with the interests of the United States.

Seeing that Mr. Hise had been positively instructed to make no treaty, not even a treaty of
commerce, with Nicaragua, Costa Rica, or Honduras, I had no suspicion that he would attempt
to act in opposition to his instructions, and in September last I was for the first time informed
that he had actually negotiated two treaties with the State of Nicaragua, the one a treaty
of commerce, the other a treaty for the construction of the proposed ship canal, which treaties
he brought with him on his return home. He also negotiated a treaty of commerce with Honduras;
and in each of these treaties it is recited that he had full powers for the purpose. He had
no such powers, and the whole proceeding on his part with reference to those States was not
only unauthorized by instructions, but in opposition to those he had received from my predecessor
and after the date of his letter of recall and the appointment of his successor. But I have
no evidence that Mr. Hise, whose letter of recall (a copy of which is herewith submitted) bears
date the 2d day of May, 1849, had received that letter on the 21st day of June, when he negotiated
the treaty with Nicaragua. The difficulty of communicating with him was so great that I have
reason to believe he had not received it. He did not acknowledge it.

The twelfth article of the treaty negotiated by Mr. Hise in effect guarantees the perfect independence
of the State of Nicaragua and her sovereignty over her alleged limits from the Caribbean Sea
to the Pacific Ocean, pledging the naval and military power of the United States to support
it. This treaty authorizes the chartering of a corporation by this Government to cut a canal
outside of the limits of the United States, and gives to us the exclusive right to fortify
and command it. I have not approved it, nor have I now submitted it for ratification; not merely
because of the facts already mentioned, but because on the 31st day of December last Señor
Edwardo Carcache, on being accredited to this Government as chargé d'affaires from the State
of Nicaragua, in a note to the Secretary of State, a translation of which is herewith sent,
declared that he was "only empowered to exchange ratifications of the treaty concluded with
Mr. Squier, and that the special convention concluded at Guatemala by Mr. Hise, the chargé
d'affaires of the United States, and Señor Selva, the commissioner of Nicaragua, had been,
as was publicly and universally known, disapproved by his Government."

We have no precedent in our history to justify such a treaty as that negotiated by Mr. Hise
since the guaranties we gave to France of her American possessions. The treaty negotiated with
New Granada on the 12th day of December, 1846, did not guarantee the sovereignty of New Granada
on the whole of her territory, but only over "the single Province of the Isthmus of Panama,"
immediately adjoining the line of the railroad, the neutrality of which was deemed necessary
by the President and Senate to the construction and security of the work.

The thirty-fifth article of the treaty with Nicaragua, negotiated by Mr. Squier, which is submitted
for your advice in regard to its ratification, distinctly recognizes the rights of sovereignty
and property which the State of Nicaragua possesses in and over the line of the canal therein
provided for. If the Senate doubt on that subject, it will be clearly wrong to involve us in
a controversy with England by adopting the treaty; but after the best consideration which I
have been able to give to the subject my own judgment is convinced that the claims of Nicaragua
are just, and that as our commerce and intercourse with the Pacific require the opening of
this communication from ocean to ocean it is our duty to ourselves to assert their justice.

This treaty is not intended to secure to the United States any monopoly or exclusive advantage
in the use of the canal. Its object is to guarantee protection to American citizens and others
who shall construct the canal, and to defend it when completed against unjust confiscations
or obstructions, and to deny the advantages of navigation through it to those nations only
which shall refuse to enter into the same guaranties. A copy of the contract of the canal company
is herewith transmitted, from which, as well as from the treaty, it will be perceived that
the same benefits are offered to all nations in the same terms.

The message of my predecessor to the Senate of the 10th February, 1847, transmitting for ratification
the treaty with New Granada, contains in general the principles by which I have been actuated
in directing the negotiation with Nicaragua. The only difference between the two cases consists
in this: In that of Nicaragua the British Government has seized upon part of her territory
and was in possession of it when we negotiated the treaty with her. But that possession was
taken after our occupation of California, when the effect of it was to obstruct or control
the most eligible route for a ship communication to the territories acquired by us on the Pacific.
In the case of New Granada, her possession was undisturbed at the time of the treaty, though
the British possession in the right of the Mosquito King was then extended into the territories
claimed by New Granada as far as Boca del Toro. The professed objects of both the treaties
are to open communications across the Isthmus to all nations and to invite their guaranties
on the same terms. Neither of them proposes to guarantee territory to a foreign nation in which
the United States will not have a common interest with that nation. Neither of them constitutes
an alliance for any political object, but for a purely commercial purpose, in which all the
navigating nations of the world have a common interest. Nicaragua, like New Granada, is a power
which will not excite the jealousy of any nation.

As there is nothing narrow, selfish, illiberal, or exclusive in the views of the United States
as set forth in this treaty, as it is indispensable to the successful completion of the contemplated
canal to secure protection to it from the local authorities and this Government, and as I have
no doubt that the British pretension to the port of San Juan in right of the Mosquito King
is without just foundation in any public law ever before recognized in any other instance by
Americans or Englishmen as applicable to Indian titles on this continent, I shall ratify this
treaty in case the Senate shall advise that course. Its principal defect is taken from the
treaty with New Granada, the negotiator having made it liable to be abrogated on notice after
twenty years. Both treaties should have been perpetual or limited only by the duration of the
improvements they were intended to protect. The instructions to our chargé d'affaires, it will
be seen, prescribe no limitation for the continuance of the treaty with Nicaragua. Should the
Senate approve of principle of the treaty, an amendment in this respect is deemed advisable;
and it will be well to invite by another amendment the protection of other nations, by expressly
offering them in the treaty what is now offered by implication only--the same advantages which
we propose for ourselves on the same conditions upon which we shall have acquired them. The
policy of this treaty is not novel, nor does it originate from any suggestion either of my
immediate predecessor or myself.

President Jackson accorded with the policy suggested in this resolution, and in pursuance of
it sent Charles Biddle as agent to negotiate with the Governments of Central America and New
Granada. The result is fully set forth in the report of a select committee of the House of
Representatives of the 20th of February, 1849, upon a joint resolution of Congress to authorize
the survey of certain routes for a canal or railroad between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.
The policy indicated in the resolution of the 3d March, 1835, then adopted by the President
and Senate, is that now proposed for the consideration and sanction of the Senate. So far as
my knowledge extends, such has ever been the liberal policy of the leading statesmen of this
country, and by no one has it been more earnestly recommended than by my lamented predecessor.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 26, 1850.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I herewith transmit, for the information of Congress, a copy of the report[4a] of Thomas Butler
King, esq., appointed bearer of dispatches and special agent to California, made in pursuance
of instructions issued from the Department of State on the 3d day of April last.

[Footnote 4a: On California affairs.]

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, March 28, 1850. I also transmit, in compliance with the resolution of the Senate,
but in a separate packet, a copy of the correspondence of Mr. Mann with the Department of State.
The latter I have caused to be marked "executive"--the information contained in it being such
as will be found on examination most appropriately to belong to the Senate in the exercise
of its executive functions. The publication of this correspondence of the agent sent by me
to Hungary is a matter referred entirely to the judgment and discretion of the Senate.

It will be seen by the documents now transmitted that no minister or agent was accredited by
the Government of Hungary to this Government at any period since I came into office, nor was
any communication ever received by this Government from the minister of foreign affairs of
Hungary or any other executive officer authorized to act in her behalf.

My purpose, as freely avowed in this correspondence, was to have acknowledged the independence
of Hungary had she succeeded in establishing a government de facto on a basis sufficiently
permanent in its character to have justified me in doing so according to the usages and settled
principles of this Government; and although she is now fallen and many of her gallant patriots
are in exile or in chains, I am free still to declare that had she been successful in the maintenance
of such a government as we could have recognized we should have been the first to welcome her
into the family of nations.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, April 3, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit a translation of a note, under date the 20th of last month, addressed to the Secretary
of State by the minister of the Mexican Republic accredited to this Government, expressing
the views of that Government with reference to the control of the wild Indians of the United
States on the frontier of Mexico, as stipulated for in the eleventh article of the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, April 22, 1850.

This treaty has been negotiated in accordance with the general views expressed in my message
to Congress in December last. Its object is to establish a commercial alliance with all great
maritime states for the protection of a contemplated ship canal through the territory of Nicaragua
to connect the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and at the same time to insure the same protection
to the contemplated railways or canals by the Tehuantepec and Panama routes, as well as to
every other interoceanic communication which may be adopted to shorten the transit to or from
our territories on the Pacific.

It will be seen that this treaty does not propose to take money from the public Treasury to
effect any object contemplated by it. It yields protection to the capitalists who may undertake
to construct any canal or railway across the Isthmus, commencing in the southern part of Mexico
and terminating in the territory of New Granada. It gives no preference to any one route over
another, but proposes the same measure of protection for all which ingenuity and enterprise
can construct. Should this treaty be ratified, it will secure in future the liberation of all
Central America from any kind of foreign aggression.

At the time negotiations were opened with Nicaragua for the construction of a canal through
her territory I found Great Britain in possession of nearly half of Central America, as the
ally and protector of the Mosquito King. It has been my object in negotiating this treaty not
only to secure the passage across the Isthmus to the Government and citizens of the United
States by the construction of a great highway dedicated to the use of all nations on equal
terms, but to maintain the independence and sovereignty of all the Central American Republics.
The Senate will judge how far these objects have been effected.

If there be any who would desire to seize and annex any portion of the territories of these
weak sister republics to the American Union, or to extend our dominion over them, I do not
concur in their policy; and I wish it to be understood in reference to that subject that I
adopt the views entertained, so far as I know, by all my predecessors.

The principles by which I have been regulated in the negotiation of this treaty are in accordance
with the sentiments well expressed by my immediate predecessor on the 10th of February, 1847,
when he communicated to the Senate the treaty with New Granada for the protection of the railroad
at Panama.

I also communicate herewith a copy of the correspondence between the American Secretary of
State and the British plenipotentiary at the time of concluding the treaty. Whatever honor
may be due to the party first proposing such a treaty justly belongs to the United States.
My predecessor, in his message of the 10th of February, 1847, referring to the treaty with
New Granada for the protection of the Panama Railroad, observes that--

   Should the proposition thus tendered be rejected we may deprive the
United States of the just influence which its acceptance might secure to
them, and confer the glory and benefits of being the first among the
nations in concluding such an arrangement upon the Government either of
Great Britain or France. That either of these Governments would embrace
the offer can not be doubted, because there does not appear to be any
other effectual means of securing to all nations the advantages of this
important passage but the guaranty of great commercial powers that the
Isthmus shall be neutral territory. The interests of the world at stake
are so important that the security of this passage between the two
oceans can not be suffered to depend upon the wars and revolutions which
may arise among different nations.

Should the Senate in its wisdom see fit to confirm this treaty, and the treaty heretofore submitted
by me for their advice in regard to its ratification, negotiated with the State of Nicaragua
on the 3d day of September last, it will be necessary to amend one or both of them, so that
both treaties may stand in conformity with each other in their spirit and intention. The Senate
will discover by examining them both that this is a task of no great difficulty.

I have good reason to believe that France and Russia stand ready to accede to this treaty,
and that no other great maritime state will refuse its accession to an arrangement so well
calculated to diffuse the blessings of peace, commerce, and civilization, and so honorable
to all nations which may enter into the engagement.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 6, 1850.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 7, 1850. It will be seen by the accompanying documents that the late Secretary
of the Treasury recommended, in his correspondence with the Committee on Commerce in the House
of Representatives, reciprocal free trade in the natural products of the United States and
Canada; that in March and June, 1849, a correspondence was opened between the British chargé
d'affaires then residing in Washington and the Secretary of State upon the subject of a commercial
convention or treaty to carry out the views of Her Majesty's Government in relation thereto,
and that the proposition for such a convention or treaty was declined on the part of the American
Government for reasons which are fully set forth in the note of the Secretary of State to Mr.
Crampton of the 26th of June last. During the negotiations connected with this correspondence,
not considering the markets of Canada as an equivalent for those of the United States, I directed
the Secretary of State to inquire what other benefits of trade and commerce would be yielded
by the British authorities in connection with such a measure, and particularly whether the
free navigation of the St. Lawrence would be conceded to us. That subject has accordingly been
presented to the British Government, and the result was communicated by Her Majesty's minister
in Washington on the 27th of March last in reply to a note from the Secretary of State of the
26th of that month. From these papers it will be perceived that the navigation of the St. Lawrence
and of the canals connecting it with the Western lakes will be opened to the citizens of the
United States in the event that the bill referred to in the correspondence, providing for the
admission of their natural products, should become a law. The whole subject is now submitted
to the consideration of Congress, and especially whether the concession proposed by Great Britain
is an equivalent for the reciprocity desired by her.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 8, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

With reference to the convention between the United States and Her Britannic Majesty relative
to interoceanic communication by the way of Nicaragua, recently submitted to the Senate, I
transmit a copy of a note, under date the 29th ultimo, addressed to the Secretary of State
by Sir Henry L. Bulwer, Her Britannic Majesty's minister here, and of Mr. Clayton's reply,
under date the 30th ultimo. Intelligence received from the chargé d'affaires of the United
States in Central America and from other quarters having led to an apprehension that Mr. Chatfield,
Her Britannic Majesty's minister in that country, had concluded a treaty with the Government
of Costa Rica placing that State under the protection of the British Government, I deemed it
my duty to cause inquiries upon the subject to be addressed to Her Majesty's Government through
Sir Henry L. Bulwer. The note of that functionary communicates the answer to those inquiries,
and may be deemed satisfactory, both from the denial of the fact that any such treaty has been
concluded and from its positive disavowal on behalf of the British Government of the policy
intended to be subserved by such treaties.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 18, 1850.

Z. TAYLOR.

[Footnote 5a: Communications from the United States consul at Vienna.]

WASHINGTON, May 20, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith reports from the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of War, in reply
to the resolution of the Senate of the 30th ultimo, calling for information in relation to
the hostilities and outrages committed during the past year by the Seminole Indians in Florida,
the steps taken for their removal west of the Mississippi, the area now occupied by them, etc.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 22, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit to the Senate reports of the several heads of Departments, to whom were
referred the resolutions of the Senate of the 9th instant, "requesting the President of the
United States to furnish to the Senate copies of all correspondence between any of the Executive
Departments and General Persifor F. Smith and Brigadier-General B. Riley, or either of them,
relative to affairs in California, which had not been communicated to the Senate; and also
all information existing in any of the Executive Departments respecting the transactions of
the convention in California by which the project of a State government was prepared, and particularly
a copy of the journals of said convention and of such of the ordinances adopted by it as may
in any way have been communicated to any of the said Departments; and likewise to inform the
Senate if the surrender of General Riley to the jurisdiction and civil authority of the government
made by the aforesaid convention was by order of the Executive of the United States, and, if
not, whether the proclamation of General Riley recognizing the said State government and submitting
to its jurisdiction has received the sanction of the Executive; and also that he furnish to
the Senate whatever intelligence may have been received in the executive department respecting
the condition of civil affairs in the Oregon Territory."

The reports, with the official correspondence accompanying them, it is believed, embrace all
the information in the Departments called for by the resolutions.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 24, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In the month of January last I nominated Thomas Sewall to be consul of the United States for
the port of Santiago de Cuba, to which office he had been appointed by me during the recess
of the Senate. The Spanish Government having refused to recognize Mr. Sewall as consul for
that port, I now withdraw that nomination and nominate William N. Adams to fill the vacancy
thus occasioned.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, May 29, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate a copy of a dispatch from the minister of the United States at London,
together with the memorial and other documents addressed to the Senate and House of Representatives
of the United States by Count de Bronno Bronski which accompanied it, relative to an improved
breed of silkworms which he desires to have introduced into this country.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 3, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate herewith reports from the several heads of Departments, which contain
all the information in possession of the Executive relative to the subject of the resolution
of the 23d instant [ultimo].

No information has been received establishing the existence of any revolutionary movement in
the island of Cuba among the inhabitants of that island. The correspondence submitted discloses,
however, the fact that repeated attempts have been made under the direction of foreigners enjoying
the hospitality of this country to get up armed expeditions in the United States for the purpose
of invading Cuba. It will be seen by that correspondence that this Government has been faithful
in the discharge of its treaty obligations with Spain and in the execution of the acts of Congress
which have for their object the maintenance in this regard of the peace and honor of this country.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 10, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I submit herewith, in reply to a resolution of the Senate of the 3d instant, calling for "copies
of the instructions given and orders issued in relation to the assemblage of persons on Round
Island, coast of Mississippi, during the summer of 1849, and of the correspondence between
the President or heads of Departments and the governor of Mississippi and the officers, naval
or military, of the United States in reference to the observation, investment, and dispersion
of said assemblage upon said island," a report from the Secretary of the Navy and accompanying
documents, which contain all the information on the subject not heretofore communicated to
the Senate.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 13, 1850.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit to the House of Representatives a copy of a dispatch addressed by the minister of
the United States at Paris to the Secretary of State, with a translation of the documents which
accompanied it, relative to the memorial of Pierre Piron, a citizen of the French Republic,
who, it will be perceived, presents a just claim to pecuniary remuneration from this Government
on account of services rendered to citizens of the United States.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 17, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received a copy of the resolution of the Senate of the 11th June instant, requesting
me "to inform the Senate whether any orders have been issued to any military officer or officers
at Santa Fe to hold possession against the authority of Texas, or in any way to embarrass or
prevent the exercise of her jurisdiction over that country, and to furnish the Senate with
copies of any correspondence which may have taken place between the War Department and the
military stationed at Santa Fe since the date of my last communication to the Senate on that
subject."

In reply to that resolution I state that no such orders have been given.

I herewith present to the Senate copies of all the correspondence referred to in the resolution.
All the other orders relating to the subject-matter of the resolution have been heretofore
communicated to the Senate.

I have already, in a former message, referred to the fact that the boundary between Texas and
New Mexico is disputed. I have now to state that information has been recently received that
a certain Robert S. Neighbors, styling himself commissioner of the State of Texas, has proceeded
to Santa Fe with a view of organizing counties in that district under the authority of Texas.
While I have no power to decide the question of boundary, and no desire to interfere with it,
as a question of title, I have to observe that the possession of the territory into which it
appears that Mr. Neighbors has thus gone was actually acquired by the United States from Mexico,
and has since been held by the United States, and, in my opinion, ought so to remain until
the question of boundary shall have been determined by some competent authority. Meanwhile,
I think there is no reason for seriously apprehending that Texas will practically interfere
with the possession of the United States.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 26, 1850.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, June 27, 1850. The sums paid by that Government under the convention are mentioned
in the letters of Messrs. E. McCall & Co., of Lima, who were appointed by my predecessor the
agents to receive the installments as they might fall due.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, July 1, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit a report from the Secretary of War, prepared in answer to a resolution
of the Senate of the 27th ultimo, requesting information of the proceedings of the Executive
in regard to the appointment of the officer now commanding in New Mexico, the orders and instructions
given to and correspondence with him, and upon other subjects mentioned in the resolution.

Z. TAYLOR.

WASHINGTON, July 2, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In the month of March last I nominated William McNeir to be a justice of the peace in and for
the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia, and on the 24th day of June the Senate
advised and consented to the nomination. Since then I have learned from the late mayor of the
city of Washington, upon whose recommendation the nomination was made, that the person whom
he intended to recommend for that office was George McNeir, whom I now nominate to be a justice
of the peace in and for the county of Washington, in the District of Columbia.

In the month of February last I nominated Benjamin Riddells as consul of the United States
for Chihuahua, and on the 10th day of June last the Senate advised and consented to that nomination.
I have since learned that the persons recommending the appointment of Mr. Riddells by the praenomen
of Benjamin intended to recommend Bennet Riddells, whom I now nominate to be consul of the
United States for Chihuahua in order to correct the mistake thus inadvertently made.

Z. TAYLOR.

PROCLAMATIONS.

ZACHARY TAYLOR, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

Z. TAYLOR.

By the President:
  JOHN M. CLAYTON,
    Secretary of State.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Whereas by an act of the Congress of the United States of the 14th of August, 1848, entitled
"An act to establish the Territorial government of Oregon," the President of the United States
is authorized to establish such ports of delivery in the collection district created by that
act, not exceeding two in number (one of which shall be located on Pugets Sound), as he may
deem proper:

Now, therefore, I, Zachary Taylor, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare
and proclaim the ports of Nesqually (on Pugets Sound) and Portland, in the collection district
of Oregon, in the Territory of Oregon, to be constituted ports of delivery, with all the privileges
authorized by law to such ports.

Z. TAYLOR.

By the President:
  J.M. CLAYTON,
    Secretary of State.

DEATH OF PRESIDENT TAYLOR.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO MR. FILLMORE.

[From official records in the State Department.]

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, July 9, 1850.

MILLARD FILLMORE,

President of the United States.

SIR: The melancholy and most painful duty devolves on us to announce to you that Zachary Taylor,
late President of the United States, is no more. He died at the President's mansion this evening
at half-past 10 o'clock.

We have the honor to be, etc.,

JOHN M. CLAYTON,
  Secretary of State.

W.M. MEREDITH,
  Secretary of the Treasury.

T. EWING,
  Secretary of the Interior.

GEO. W. CRAWFORD,
  Secretary of War.

WM. BALLARD PRESTON,
  Secretary of the Navy.

J. COLLAMER,
  Postmaster-General.

[The announcement as published in the Daily National Intelligencer of July 11, 1850, contains
also the signature of Reverdy Johnson, Attorney-General.]

REPLY OF MR. FILLMORE.

[From official records in the State Department.]

WASHINGTON, July 9, 1850.

To the Hons.

GENTLEMEN: I have just received your note conveying the melancholy and painful intelligence
of the decease of Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States. I have no language to
express the emotions of my heart. The shock is so sudden and unexpected that I am overwhelmed
with grief.

I shall avail myself of the earliest moment to communicate this sad intelligence to Congress,
and shall appoint a time and place for taking the oath of office prescribed to the President
of the United States. You are requested to be present and witness the ceremony.

I am, gentlemen, etc.,

MILLARD FILLMORE.

COMMUNICATION TO THE SENATE FROM MR. FILLMORE.

[From Senate Journal, Thirty-first Congress, first session, p. 443.]

WASHINGTON, July 10, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In consequence of the lamented death of Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States,
I shall no longer occupy the chair of the Senate, and I have thought that a formal communication
to the Senate to that effect, through your Secretary, might enable you the more promptly to
proceed to the choice of a presiding officer.

MILLARD FILLMORE

ANNOUNCEMENT TO CONGRESS.

Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have to perform the melancholy duty of announcing to you that it has pleased Almighty God
to remove from this life Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States. He deceased last
evening at the hour of half-past 10 o'clock, in the midst of his family and surrounded by affectionate
friends, calmly and in the full possession of all his faculties. Among his last words were
these, which he uttered with emphatic distinctness:

  I have always done my duty. I am ready to die. My only regret is
  for the friends I leave behind me.

Having announced to you, fellow-citizens, this most afflicting bereavement, and assuring you
that it has penetrated no heart with deeper grief than mine, it remains for me to say that
I propose this day at 12 o'clock, in the Hall of the House of Representatives, in the presence
of both Houses of Congress, to take the oath prescribed by the Constitution, to enable me to
enter on the execution of the office which this event has devolved on me.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES ABROAD.

[From official records in the State Department]

CIRCULAR.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, July 10, 1850.

Sir: It has become my most painful duty to announce to you the decease of Zachary Taylor, late
President of the United States.

This afflicting event took place on the 9th instant at the Executive Mansion in this city,
at thirty minutes after 10 o'clock in the evening.

I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,

JOHN M. CLAYTON.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO REPRESENTATIVES OF FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS IN THE UNITED STATES.

The President, Zachary Taylor, departed this life yesterday at half-past 10 o'clock in the evening.

You are respectfully invited to attend the funeral ceremonies, which will take place on Saturday
next, and with the particular arrangements for which you will be made acquainted in due time.

Not doubting your sympathy and condolence with the Government and people of the country on
this bereavement, I have the honor to be, sir, with high consideration, your obedient servant,

JOHN M. CLAYTON.

ANNOUNCEMENT TO THE ARMY.

[From official records in the War Department.]

GENERAL ORDERS, No. 21.

WAR DEPARTMENT, ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

Washington July 11, 1850.

I. The following order of the President of the United States announces to the Army the lamented
death of the illustrious General Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States:

WAR DEPARTMENT, July 11, 1850.

The President of the United States with profound sorrow announces to the Army, the Navy, and
Marine Corps the death of Zachary Taylor, late President of the United States. He died at the
Executive Mansion on the night of the 9th instant at half-past 10 o'clock.

His last public appearance was in participating in the ceremonies of our national anniversary
at the base of the monument now rearing to the memory of Washington. His last official act
was to affix his signature to the convention recently concluded between the United States and
Great Britain.

The vigor of a constitution strong by nature and confirmed by active and temperate habits had
in later years become impaired by the arduous toils and exposures of his military life.

Solely engrossed in maintaining the honor and advancing the glory of his country, in a career
of forty years in the Army of the United States he rendered himself signal and illustrious.
An unbroken current of success and victory, terminated by an achievement unsurpassed in our
annals, left nothing to be accomplished for his military fame.

His conduct and courage gave him this career of unexampled fortune, and with the crowning virtues
of moderation and humanity under all circumstances, and especially in the moment of victory,
revealed to his countrymen those great and good qualities which induced them unsolicited to
call him from his high military command to the highest civil office of honor and trust in the
Republic; not that he desired to be first, but that he was felt to be worthiest.

The simplicity of his character, the singleness of his purpose, the elevation and patriotism
of his principles, his moral courage, his justice, magnanimity and benevolence, his wisdom,
moderation, and power of command, while they have endeared him to the heart of the nation,
add to the deep sense of the national calamity in the loss of a Chief Magistrate whom death
itself could not appall in the consciousness of "having always done his duty."

The officers of the Army, of the Navy, and Marine Corps will, as a manifestation of their respect
for the exalted character and eminent public services of the illustrious dead, and of their
sense of the calamity the country has sustained by this afflicting dispensation of Providence,
wear crape on the left arm and upon the hilt of the sword for six months.

It is further directed that funeral honors be paid at each of the military posts according
to general regulations, and at navy-yards and on board all public vessels in commission, by
firing thirty minute guns, commencing at meridian, on the day after the receipt of this order,
and by wearing their flags at half-mast.

[The Secretary of the Navy made the same announcement to the Navy as that portion of the above
signed by the Secretary of War.]

ORDER OF THE PRESIDENT.

[From the Daily National Intelligencer, July 12, 1850.]

WASHINGTON, July 10, 1850.

In consequence of the death of the President of the United States, I direct that the several
Executive Departments be closed until after the funeral of the illustrious deceased, and that
they, as well as the Executive Mansion, be placed in mourning, and that the several officers
of the Government wear the usual badge of mourning for the term of six months.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

ACTION OF CONGRESS.

[From Senate Journal, Thirty-first Congress, first session, p. 445.]

RESOLUTION OF THE SENATE.

[From House Journal, Thirty-first Congress, first session, p. 1121.]

RESOLUTION OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

[The committee consisted of Messrs. Conrad, of Louisiana; McDowell, of Virginia; Winthrop,
of Massachusetts; Bissell, of Illinois; Duer, of New York; Orr, of South Carolina; Breck, of
Kentucky; Strong, of Pennsylvania; Vinton, of Ohio; Cabell, of Florida; Kerr, of Maryland;
Stanly, of North Carolina; Littlefield, of Maine.]

OFFICIAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE FUNERAL.

[From the Daily National Intelligencer, July 13, 1850.]

WASHINGTON, July 11, 1850.

The Committee of Arrangements of the two Houses of Congress, having consulted with the family
of the deceased, have concluded that the funeral of the late President be solemnized on Saturday,
the 13th of July, at 12 o'clock; the religious services to be performed by the Rev. Dr. Pyne
at the Executive Mansion, according to the usage of the Episcopal Church, in which church the
deceased most usually worshiped; the body to be afterwards taken from the President's house
to the Congress Burying Ground, accompanied by a military escort and civic procession, and
deposited in the receiving tomb.

The military arrangements to be under the direction of Major-General Scott, the General Commanding
in Chief of the Army of the United States, and Major-General Walter Jones, of the militia of
the District of Columbia.

Commodore Warrington, the senior naval officer now in the city, to have the direction of the
naval arrangements.

The marshal of the District of Columbia to have the direction of the civic procession.

All the members of the diplomatic corps, all officers of Government, the clergy of the District
and elsewhere, all associations and fraternities, and citizens generally are invited to attend.

And it is respectfully recommended to the officers of the Government that they wear the usual
badge of mourning.

ORDER OF THE PROCESSION.

FUNERAL ESCORT.

(In column of march.)

Composed of such corps of the Army and the militia as may be ordered or as may report themselves
for duty on the occasion.

CIVIC PROCESSION.

The United States marshal of the District of Columbia and his aids.

The mayors of Washington and Georgetown.

The Committee of Arrangements of the two Houses of Congress.

The chaplains of the two Houses of Congress and the officiating clergyman of the occasion.

Attending physicians to the late President.

Pallbearers.--Hon. Henry Clay, Hon. T.H. Benton, Hon. Lewis Cass, Hon. Daniel Webster, Hon.
J.M. Berrien, Hon. Truman Smith, Hon. R.C. Winthrop, Hon. Linn Boyd, Hon. James McDowell, Hon.
S.F. Vinton, Hon. Hugh White, Hon. Isaac E. Holmes, G.W.P. Custis, esq., Hon. R.J. Walker,
Chief Justice Cranch, Joseph Gales, esq., Major-General Jesup, Major-General Gibson, Commodore
Ballard, Brigadier-General Henderson.

The horse used by General Taylor in the late war.

Family and relatives of the late President.

The President of the United States and the heads of Departments.

The Sergeant-at-Arms of the Senate.

The Senate of the United States, preceded by the President pro tempore and Secretary.

The Sergeant-at-Arms of the House of Representatives.

The House of Representatives, preceded by their Speaker and Clerk.

The diplomatic corps.

Governors of States and Territories.

Ex-members of Congress.

Members of State legislatures.

District judges of the United States.

Judges of the circuit and criminal courts of the District of Columbia, with the members of
the bar and officers of the courts.

The judges of the several States.

The Comptroller of the Treasury, Auditors, Treasurer, Register, Solicitor, and Commissioners
of Land Office, Pensions, Indian Affairs, Patents, and Public Buildings.

The clerks, etc., of the several Departments, preceded by their respective chief clerks, and
all other civil officers of the Government.

Clergy of the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

Officers and soldiers of the Revolution.

Corporate authorities of Washington.

Corporate authorities of Georgetown.

Officers and soldiers who served in the War of 1812 and in the late war.

Presidents, professors, and students of the colleges of the District of Columbia.

Such societies and fraternities as may wish to join the procession, to report to the marshal
of the District, who will assign them their respective positions.

Citizens and strangers.

The procession will move from the President's house at 1 o'clock precisely, or on the conclusion
of the religious services.

DANIEL WEBSTER, Chairman of the Committee on the part of the Senate.

CHAS. M. CONRAD, Chairman of the Committee on the part of the House of Representatives.

The joint committees of the Congress of the United States having designated the General in
Chief, Major-General Scott, to take charge of the military arrangements for the funeral ceremonies
of the late President of the United States, the Secretary of War directs that the Commanding
General of the Army give the necessary orders and instructions accordingly. The military arrangements
will conform to the directions found in the reports of the special committees of the Senate
and House of Representatives.

By order of the Secretary of War:

R. JONES,

Adjutant-General.

GENERAL ORDERS.

HEADQUARTERS OF THE ARMY,

ADJUTANT-GENERAL'S OFFICE,

Washington, July 12, 1850.

The Major-General Commanding the Army of the United States, having been charged by the joint
committees of Congress with the military preparations for the funeral honors to be paid to
the illustrious statesman, soldier, and citizen, Zachary Taylor, late President of the United
States, directs the following order of arrangement:

ORDER OF THE MILITARY PROCESSION.

FUNERAL ESCORT.

(In column of march.)

Infantry.--Maryland volunteers; volunteer troops from other States; battalion of volunteers
from the District of Columbia.

Firing party (to be commanded by an officer of the Army).--Two companies of volunteers from
Washington; two companies of volunteers from Baltimore; battalion of United States marines;
battalion of United States artillery, as infantry; troop of United States light artillery.

Dismounted officers of volunteers, Marine Corps, Navy, and Army, in the order named.

Major-General Walter Jones, commanding the militia; aids-de-camp.

Major-General Winfield Scott, commanding the Army; aids-de-camp.

The troops will be formed in line in the Avenue, north of the President's mansion, precisely
at 11 o'clock a.m., Saturday, the 13th instant, with the right (Brevet Major Sedgwick's troop
of light artillery) resting opposite the War Department.

The procession will move at 1 o'clock p.m., when minute guns will be fired by detachments of
artillery stationed near St. John's church, the City Hall, and the Capitol, respectively.

On arriving on the north front of the Congressional Burial Ground the escort will be formed
in two lines, the first consisting of the firing party, facing the cemetery and 30 paces from
it; the second composed of the rest of the infantry, 20 paces in rear; the battery of artillery
to take position on the rising ground 100 paces in rear of the second line.

At sunrise to-morrow (the 13th instant) a Federal salute will be fired from the military stations
in the vicinity of Washington, minute guns between the hours of 1 and 3, and a national salute
at the setting of the sun.

The usual badge of mourning will be worn on the left arm and on the hilt of the sword.

The Adjutant-General of the Army is charged with the details of the military arrangements of
the day, aided by the Assistant Adjutants-General on duty at Washington, by Brevet Lieutenant-Colonel
Swords, of the staff, and Lieutenant W.T. Sherman, Third Artillery.

The United States marshal of the District of Columbia having been charged with the direction
of the civic procession, the military will cooperate in the general order of arrangements.

By command of Major-General Scott:

R. JONES,

Adjutant-General.

[From the Daily National Intelligencer, July 12, 1850.]

GENERAL ORDER.

The major-general, zealous to execute the honorable commission in which the joint committees
of Congress have associated him with the General in Chief of the Army, deems it proper and
conducive to the end in view to make the best preparation in his power for carrying into effect
the field arrangements of the military movements in the procession of the funeral of the late
President, arrangements which must necessarily await the arrival of the General in Chief. For
that purpose he thinks it expedient to appoint a general rendezvous where all the corps and
companies of militia, including all who may march from any of the States with those of this
District, may assemble at an early hour in the morning of Saturday, the 13th instant, and there
receive final orders for being formed and posted. They are therefore requested to take notice
that such rendezvous is in front of the City Hall. The corps and companies from the States
are requested to repair to this general rendezvous immediately on arrival; those of the District
not later than 9 o'clock a.m. The commandants of corps and companies are expected to report,
immediately on arriving at the rendezvous, to the major-general or such staff officer as may
be detailed for the purpose, the strength of their respective commands.

All officers not on duty in their respective corps or companies are requested to appear in
full uniform and mounted. The post intended for them is in the personal suite of the General
in Chief. The major-general knows of no more honorable or more interesting post that he could
assign them in time of peace than that of following the lead of the renowned Scott in the procession
of the funeral of the renowned Taylor.

WALTER JONES, Major-General Militia District of Columbia.

RESOLUTION OF CONDOLENCE BY CONGRESS.

[From original in the State Department.]

A RESOLUTION expressing the condolence of Congress for Mrs. Margaret S. Taylor.

Millard Fillmore

July 10, 1850, to March 4, 1853

Millard Fillmore

Millard Fillmore was born February 7, 1800, in the township of Locke (now Summerhill), Cayuga
County, N.Y. He was the second son of Nathaniel Fillmore and Phoebe Millard. His ancestors
served with distinction in the French and Revolutionary wars. He attended the primitive schools
in the neighborhood three months in the year, devoting the other nine to working on his father's
farm. His father, having formed a distaste for farming, was desirous that his sons should follow
other occupations. Accordingly, Millard, after serving an apprenticeship for a few months,
began in 1815 the business of carding and dressing cloth. Was afterwards a school-teacher.
In 1819 decided to become a lawyer, and in 1823, although he had not completed the usual course
required, was admitted as an attorney by the court of common pleas of Erie County. February
5, 1826, was married to Miss Abigail Powers, daughter of a clergyman. In 1827 was admitted
as an attorney and two years later as counselor before the supreme court. In 1830 removed to
Buffalo and became a successful lawyer. His political career began and ended with the birth
and extinction of the Whig party. Was elected to the legislature of his State in 1828, and
served three terms; while there he was distinguished by his advocacy of the act to abolish
imprisonment for debt, which passed in 1831. In 1832 was elected to Congress, and after serving
one term retired till 1836, when he was reelected, and again returned in 1838 and 1840, declining
a renomination in 1842. Was the author of the tariff of 1842. He retired from Congress in 1843.
Was an unsuccessful candidate for Vice-President before the Whig convention at Baltimore in
1844. Was nominated by acclamation for governor of New York in the following September, but
was defeated by Silas Wright. In 1847 was elected comptroller of the State. In 1848 was nominated
by the Whigs for Vice-President on the ticket with General Taylor and was elected in the following
November. He presided as Vice-President with strict impartiality during exciting debates in
the Senate. By the death of President Taylor became President July 10, 1850. Was a candidate
for President at the Whig convention in 1852, but General Scott received the nomination. Three
weeks after the close of his Administration his wife died. Afterwards married Caroline C. McIntosh,
who survived him. In 1856, while in Rome, he was nominated for the Presidency by the American
(Whig) party, but was defeated by Mr. Buchanan. After his retirement from office he resided
in Buffalo the remainder of his life. He established the Buffalo Historical Society. Was called
upon to welcome distinguished visitors to his city, and frequently presided over conventions
and other public meetings, but held no office after retiring from the Presidency. He again
visited Europe in 1866. Died at Buffalo, N.Y., March 8, 1874, and was buried in that city in
Forest Lawn Cemetery.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

I recommend to the two Houses of Congress to adopt such measures as in their discretion may
seem proper to perform with due solemnities the funeral obsequies of Zachary Taylor, late President
of the United States, and thereby to signify the great and affectionate regard of the American
people for the memory of one whose life has been devoted to the public service, whose career
in arms has not been surpassed in usefulness or brilliancy, who has been so recently raised
by the unsolicited voice of the people to the highest civil authority in the Government, which
he administered with so much honor and advantage to his country, and by whose sudden death
so many hopes of future usefulness have been blighted forever.

To you, Senators and Representatives of a nation in tears, I can say nothing which can alleviate
the sorrow with which you are oppressed. I appeal to you to aid me, under the trying circumstances
which surround me, in the discharge of the duties from which, however much I may be oppressed
by them, I dare not shrink; and I rely upon Him who holds in His hands the destinies of nations
to endow me with the requisite strength for the task and to avert from our country the evils
apprehended from the heavy calamity which has befallen us.

I shall most readily concur in whatever measures the wisdom of the two Houses may suggest as
befitting this deeply melancholy occasion.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 15, 1850. A report from the Secretary of State relative to the treaty, and
the documents therein referred to, are also herewith transmitted.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 17, 1850.

The resolution of the House speaks of the island of Tigre, in the State of Nicaragua. I am
not aware of the existence of any such island in that State, and presume that the resolution
refers to the island of the same name in the Gulf of Fonseca, in the State of Honduras.

But as its communication is not liable to the same objection, I transmit for the information
of the House a copy of a treaty in regard to a ship canal across the Isthmus, negotiated by
Elijah Hise, our late chargé d'affaires in Guatemala, with the Government of Nicaragua on the
21st day of June, 1849, accompanied by copies of his instructions from and correspondence with
the Department of State.

I shall cheerfully comply with the request of the House of Representatives to lay before them
the treaties negotiated with the States of Central America, now before the Senate, whenever
it shall be compatible with the public interest to make the communication. For the present
I communicate herewith a copy of the treaty with Great Britain and of the correspondence between
the American Secretary of State and the British plenipotentiary at the time it was concluded.
The ratifications of it were exchanged at Washington on the 4th day of July instant.

I also transmit the report of the Secretary of State, to whom the resolution of the House was
referred, and who conducted the negotiations relative to Central America, under the direction
of my lamented predecessor.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 20, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit to the Senate, with a view to its ratification, a convention between the
United States and the Mexican Republic for the extradition of fugitives from justice. This
convention was negotiated under the directions of my predecessor, and was signed this day by
John M. Clayton, Secretary of State, on the part of the United States, and by Senor Don Luis
de la Rosa, envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of Mexico, on the part of that
Republic. The length of the boundary line between the two countries, extending, as it does,
from the Pacific to the Gulf, renders such a convention indispensable to the maintenance of
good order and the amicable relations now so happily subsisting between the sister Republics.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 23, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I lay before the Senate, for their consideration and advice as to its ratification, a treaty
concluded in the city of Washington on the 1st day of April, 1850, by and between Ardavan S.
Loughery, commissioner on the part of the United States, and delegates of the Wyandott tribe
of Indians.

I also lay before the Senate a letter from the Secretary of the Interior and the papers therein
referred to.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 30, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit to the Senate, in answer to its resolution of the 5th instant, requesting
the President to communicate to that body "any information, if any has been received by the
Government, showing that an American vessel has been recently stopped upon the high seas and
searched by a British ship of war," the accompanying copies of papers. The Government has no
knowledge of any alleged stopping or searching on the high seas of American vessels by British
ships of war except in the cases therein mentioned. The circumstances of these cases will appear
by the inclosed correspondence, taken from the files of the Navy Department. No remonstrance
or complaint by the owners of these vessels has been presented to the Government of the United
States.

MILLARD FILLMORE

WASHINGTON, August 2, 1850.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 6, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I herewith transmit to the two Houses of Congress a letter from his excellency the governor
of Texas, dated on the 14th day of June last, addressed to the late President of the United
States, which, not having been answered by him, came to my hands on his death; and I also transmit
a copy of the answer which I have felt it to be my duty to cause to be made to that communication.

Congress will perceive that the governor of Texas officially states that by authority of the
legislature of that State he dispatched a special commissioner with full power and instructions
to extend the civil jurisdiction of the State over the unorganized counties of El Paso, Worth,
Presidio, and Santa Fe, situated on its northwestern limits.

He proceeds to say that the commissioner had reported to him in an official form that the military
officers employed in the service of the United States stationed at Santa Fe interposed adversely
with the inhabitants to the fulfillment of his object in favor of the establishment of a separate
State government east of the Rio Grande, and within the rightful limits of the State of Texas.
These four counties, which Texas thus proposes to establish and organize as being within her
own jurisdiction, extend over the whole of the territory east of the Rio Grande, which has
heretofore been regarded as an essential and integral part of the department of New Mexico,
and actually governed and possessed by her people until conquered and severed from the Republic
of Mexico by the American arms.

The legislature of Texas has been called together by her governor for the purpose, as is understood,
of maintaining her claim to the territory east of the Rio Grande and of establishing over it
her own jurisdiction and her own laws by force.

These proceedings of Texas, may well arrest the attention of all branches of the Government
of the United States, and I rejoice that they occur while the Congress is yet in session. It
is, I fear, far from being impossible that, in consequence of these proceedings of Texas, a
crisis may be brought on which shall summon the two Houses of Congress, and still more emphatically
the executive government, to an immediate readiness for the performance of their respective duties.

By the Constitution of the United States the President is constituted Commander in Chief of
the Army and Navy, and of the militia of the several States when called into the actual service
of the United States. The Constitution declares also that he shall take care that the laws
be faithfully executed and that he shall from time to time give to the Congress information
of the state of the Union.

Congress has power by the Constitution to provide for calling forth the militia to execute
the laws of the Union, and suitable and appropriate acts of Congress have been passed as well
for providing for calling forth the militia as for placing other suitable and efficient means
in the hands of the President to enable him to discharge the constitutional functions of his
office.

These several enactments are now in full force, so that if the laws of the United States are
opposed or obstructed in any State or Territory by combinations too powerful to be suppressed
by the judicial or civil authorities it becomes a case in which it is the duty of the President
either to call out the militia or to employ the military and naval force of the United States,
or to do both if in his judgment the exigency of the occasion shall so require, for the purpose
of suppressing such combinations. The constitutional duty of the President is plain and peremptory
and the authority vested in him by law for its performance clear and ample.

Texas is a State, authorized to maintain her own laws so far as they are not repugnant to the
Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States; to suppress insurrections against her
authority, and to punish those who may commit treason against the State according to the forms
provided by her own constitution and her own laws.

But all this power is local and confined entirely within the limits of Texas herself. She can
possibly confer no authority which can be lawfully exercised beyond her own boundaries.

All this is plain, and hardly needs argument or elucidation. If Texas militia, therefore, march
into any one of the other States or into any Territory of the United States, there to execute
or enforce any law of Texas, they become at that moment trespassers; they are no longer under
the protection of any lawful authority, and are to be regarded merely as intruders; and if
within such State or Territory they obstruct any law of the United States, either by power
of arms or mere power of numbers, constituting such a combination as is too powerful to be
suppressed by the civil authority, the President of the United States has no option left to
him, but is bound to obey the solemn injunction of the Constitution and exercise the high powers
vested in him by that instrument and by the acts of Congress.

Or if any civil posse, armed or unarmed, enter into any Territory of the United States, under
the protection of the laws thereof, with intent to seize individuals, to be carried elsewhere
for trial for alleged offenses, and this posse be too powerful to be resisted by the local
civil authorities, such seizure or attempt to seize is to be prevented or resisted by the authority
of the United States.

The grave and important question now arises whether there be in the Territory of New Mexico
any existing law of the United States opposition to which or the obstruction of which would
constitute a case calling for the interposition of the authority vested in the President.

If, therefore, New Mexico be a Territory of the United States, and if any treaty stipulation
be in force therein, such treaty stipulation is the supreme law of the land, and is to be maintained
and upheld accordingly.

In the letter to the governor of Texas my reasons are given for believing that New Mexico is
now a Territory of the United States, with the same extent and the same boundaries which belonged
to it while in the actual possession of the Republic of Mexico, and before the late war. In
the early part of that war both California and New Mexico were conquered by the arms of the
United States, and were in the military possession of the United States at the date of the
treaty of peace.

By that treaty the title by conquest was confirmed and these territories, provinces, or departments
separated from Mexico forever, and by the same treaty certain important rights and securities
were solemnly guaranteed to the inhabitants residing therein.

The eighth article of the treaty is in the following terms:

  Mexicans now established in territories previously belonging to
  Mexico, and which remain for the future within the limits of the
  United States as defined by the present treaty, shall be free to
  continue where they now reside or to remove at any time to the Mexican
  Republic, retaining the property which they possess in the said
  territories, or disposing thereof and removing the proceeds wherever
  they please without their being subjected on this account to any
  contribution, tax, or charge whatever.

  Those who shall prefer to remain in the said territories may either
  retain the title, and rights of Mexican citizens or acquire those of
  citizens of the United States; but they shall be under the obligation
  to make their election within one year from the date of the exchange
  of ratifications of this treaty; and those who shall remain in the
  said territories after the expiration of that year without having
  declared their intention to retain the character of Mexicans shall be
  considered to have elected to become citizens of the United States.

  In the said territories property of every kind now belonging to
  Mexicans not established there shall be inviolably respected. The
  present owners, the heirs of these, and all Mexicans who may hereafter
  acquire said property by contract shall enjoy with respect to it
  guaranties equally ample as if the same belonged to citizens of the
  United States.

The ninth article of the treaty is in these words:

  The Mexicans who, in the territories aforesaid, shall not preserve the
  character of citizens of the Mexican Republic, conformably with what
  is stipulated in the preceding article, shall be incorporated into the
  Union of the United States and be admitted at the proper time (to be
  judged of by the Congress of the United States) to the enjoyment of
  all the rights of citizens of the United States according to the
  principles of the Constitution, and in the meantime shall be
  maintained and protected in the free enjoyment of their liberty and
  property and secured in the free exercise of their religion without
  restriction.

It is plain, therefore, on the face of these treaty stipulations that all Mexicans established
in territories north or east of the line of demarcation already mentioned come within the protection
of the ninth article, and that the treaty, being a part of the supreme law of the land, does
extend over all such Mexicans, and assures to them perfect security in the free enjoyment of
their liberty and property, as well as in the free exercise of their religion; and this supreme
law of the land, being thus in actual force over this territory, is to be maintained until
it shall be displaced or superseded by other legal provisions; and if it be obstructed or resisted
by combinations too powerful to be suppressed by the civil authority the case is one which
comes within the provisions of law and which obliges the President to enforce those provisions.
Neither the Constitution nor the laws nor my duty nor my oath of office leave me any alternative
or any choice in my mode of action.

The executive government of the United States has no power or authority to determine what was
the true line of boundary between Mexico and the United States before the treaty of Guadalupe
Hidalgo, nor has it any such power now, since the question has become a question between the
State of Texas and the United States. So far as this boundary is doubtful, that doubt can only
be removed by some act of Congress, to which the assent of the State of Texas may be necessary,
or by some appropriate mode of legal adjudication; but in the meantime, if disturbances or
collisions arise or should be threatened, it is absolutely incumbent on the executive government,
however painful the duty, to take care that the laws be faithfully maintained; and he can regard
only the actual state of things as it existed at the date of the treaty, and is bound to protect
all inhabitants who were then established and who now remain north and east of the line of
demarcation in the full enjoyment of their liberty and property, according to the provisions
of the ninth article of the treaty. In other words, all must be now regarded as New Mexico
which was possessed and occupied as New Mexico by citizens of Mexico at the date of the treaty
until a definite line of boundary shall be established by competent authority.

This assertion of duty to protect the people of New Mexico from threatened violence, or from
seizure to be carried into Texas for trial for alleged offenses against Texan laws, does not
at all include any claim of power on the part of the Executive to establish any civil or military
government within that Territory. That power belongs exclusively to the legislative department,
and Congress is the sole judge of the time and manner of creating or authorizing any such government.

The duty of the Executive extends only to the execution of laws and the maintenance of treaties
already in force and the protection of all the people of the United States in the enjoyment
of the rights which those treaties and laws guarantee.

It is exceedingly desirable that no occasion should arise for the exercise of the powers thus
vested in the President by the Constitution and the laws. With whatever mildness those powers
might be executed, or however clear the case of necessity, yet consequences might, nevertheless,
follow of which no human sagacity can foresee either the evils or the end.

Having thus laid before Congress the communication of his excellency the governor of Texas
and the answer thereto, and having made such observations as I have thought the occasion called
for respecting constitutional obligations which may arise in the further progress of things
and may devolve on me to be performed, I hope I shall not be regarded as stepping aside from
the line of my duty, notwithstanding that I am aware that the subject is now before both Houses,
if I express my deep and earnest conviction of the importance of an immediate decision or arrangement
or settlement of the question of boundary between Texas and the Territory of New Mexico. All
considerations of justice, general expediency, and domestic tranquillity call for this. It
seems to be in its character and by position the first, or one of the first, of the questions
growing out of the acquisition of California and New Mexico, and now requiring decision.

No government can be established for New Mexico, either State or Territorial, until it shall
be first ascertained what New Mexico is, and what are her limits and boundaries. These can
not be fixed or known till the line of division between her and Texas shall be ascertained
and established; and numerous and weighty reasons conspire, in my judgment, to show that this
divisional line should be established by Congress with the assent of the government of Texas.
In the first place, this seems by far the most prompt mode of proceeding by which the end can
be accomplished. If judicial proceedings were resorted to, such proceedings would necessarily
be slow, and years would pass by, in all probability, before the controversy could be ended.
So great a delay in this case is to be avoided if possible. Such delay would be every way inconvenient,
and might be the occasion of disturbances and collisions. For the same reason I would, with
the utmost deference to the wisdom of Congress, express a doubt of the expediency of the appointment
of commissioners, and of an examination, estimate, and an award of indemnity to be made by
them. This would be but a species of arbitration, which might last as long as a suit at law.

So far as I am able to comprehend the case, the general facts are now all known, and Congress
is as capable of deciding on it justly and properly now as it probably would be after the report
of the commissioners. If the claim of title on the part of Texas appears to Congress to be
well founded in whole or in part, it is in the competency of Congress to offer her an indemnity
for the surrender of that claim. In a case like this, surrounded, as it is, by many cogent
considerations, all calling for amicable adjustment and immediate settlement, the Government
of the United States would be justified, in my opinion, in allowing an indemnity to Texas,
not unreasonable or extravagant, but fair, liberal, and awarded in a just spirit of accommodation.

I think no event would be hailed with more gratification by the people of the United States
than the amicable adjustment of questions of difficulty which have now for a long time agitated
the country and occupied, to the exclusion of other subjects, the time and attention of Congress.

Having thus freely communicated the results of my own reflections on the most advisable mode
of adjusting the boundary question, I shall nevertheless cheerfully acquiesce in any other
mode which the wisdom of Congress may devise. And in conclusion I repeat my conviction that
every consideration of the public interest manifests the necessity of a provision by Congress
for the settlement of this boundary question before the present session be brought to a close.
The settlement of other questions connected with the same subject within the same period is
greatly to be desired, but the adjustment of this appears to me to be in the highest degree
important. In the train of such an adjustment we may well hope that there will follow a return
of harmony and good will, an increased attachment to the Union, and the general satisfaction
of the country.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 8, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

It has been suggested that the language in the first paragraph of my message to the two Houses
of Congress of the 6th instant may convey the idea that Governor Bell's letter to my predecessor
was received by him before his death. It was addressed to him, but appears, in point of fact,
to have been sent to me from the post-office after his death.

I make this communication to accompany the message and prevent misapprehension.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 10, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Department of the Interior and the papers which
accompanied it, being the first part of the results of investigations by Henry R. Schoolcraft,
esq., under the provisions of an act of Congress approved March 3, 1847, requiring the Secretary
of War "to collect and digest such statistics and materials as may illustrate the history,
the present condition, and future prospects of the Indian tribes of the United States,"

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 24, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have the honor to transmit herewith a report submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury,
to whom was referred the resolution of the Senate of the 3ist July last, requesting to be furnished
with certain information in relation to the commerce, etc., of the district of Brazos Santiago,
in Texas.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 26, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have the honor to inclose herewith a letter just received from the Secretary of War, transmitting
a communication from the Colonel of the Corps of Topographical Engineers, with accompanying
papers, which he requests may be taken as a supplement to the "report and map of Lieutenant
J.D. Webster, Corps of Topographical Engineers, of a survey of the Gulf coast at the mouth
of the Rio Grande and its vicinity," called for by a resolution of the Senate of the 1st of
July last.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, September 2, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have the honor herewith to transmit to your honorable body a report from the Secretary of
the Navy, accompanied by copies of the correspondence relating to the resignation of Edward
C. Anderson, a lieutenant in the Navy, in answer to a resolution of the Senate of August 28,
1850, adopted in executive session.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, September 9, 1850.

WASHINGTON, September 9, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with the request of the Hon. Manuel Alvarez, acting governor, etc., I have the
honor to transmit to the Senate herewith a copy of the constitution recently adopted by the
inhabitants of New Mexico, together with a digest of the votes for and against it.

Congress having just passed a bill providing a Territorial government for New Mexico, I do
not deem it advisable to submit any recommendation on the subject of a State government.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, September 12, 1850.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, September 16, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to a resolution of the Senate of the 9th instant, adopted in executive session, asking
information in reference to the nomination of John Howard Payne as consul to Tunis, I have
the honor to transmit a report from the Secretary of State, giving the desired information.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, September 23, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Having been informed that it is the wish of the family and relatives of the late lamented President
of the United States that his remains should be removed to the State of Kentucky, and being
desirous of manifesting the most sincere and profound respect for the character of the deceased,
in which I doubt not Congress will fully concur, I have felt it to be my duty to make known
to you the wishes of the family, that you might previous to your adjournment adopt such proceedings
and take such order on the subject as in your wisdom may seem meet and proper on the occasion.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 1: Communications from the United States minister to Turkey relative to the Hungarian
exiles.]

WASHINGTON, September 28, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to your resolution of the 24th instant, expressing an opinion adverse to the alleged
resignation of Lieutenant Anderson, of the Navy, I have the honor herewith to transmit a report
from the Secretary of the Navy, accompanied by the correspondence in reference to such resignation.

Regarding the opinion of the Senate in this matter with the most profound respect, I have given
to the subject the most anxious consideration, and submitted the question to the deliberation
of my Cabinet, and after a careful examination of the whole correspondence they are unanimously
of opinion that Lieutenant Anderson tendered his resignation, which was duly accepted, and
that he was therefore rightfully dropped from the Register. I concur fully in this opinion.
With these convictions I feel compelled to adhere to the decision of my lamented predecessor,
and can only regret that I have the misfortune in this instance to differ from those for whom,
individually and collectively, I entertain the highest respect.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this 1st day of November, A.D. 1850, and the
seventy-fifth of the Independence of the United States.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

By the President:
  W.S. DERRICK,
    Acting Secretary of State.

FIRST ANNUAL MESSAGE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, December 9, 1850.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[The same message was sent to the Senate.]

[Footnote 2: Incursions of Indians of the United States upon the population of the Mexican
frontier.]

WASHINGTON, December 12, 1850.

MILLARD FILLMORE

WASHINGTON, December 13, 1850.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the pleasure of announcing to Congress the agreement on the part of Texas to the propositions
offered to that State by the act of Congress approved on the 9th day of September last, entitled
"An act proposing to the State of Texas the establishment of her northern and western boundaries,
the relinquishment by the said State of all territory claimed by her exterior to said boundaries
and of all her claims upon the United States, and to establish a Territorial government for
New Mexico."

By the terms of that act it was required that the agreement of Texas to the propositions contained
in it should be given on or before the 1st day of December, 1850. An authenticated transcript
of a law passed by the legislature of Texas on the 25th day of November, agreeing to and accepting
the propositions contained in the act of Congress, has been received. This law, after reciting
the provisions of the act of Congress, proceeds to enact and declare as follows, viz:

  Therefore, first. Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of
  Texas, That the State of Texas hereby agrees to and accepts said
  propositions; and it is hereby declared that the said State shall be
  bound by the terms thereof according to their true import and meaning.

  Second. That the governor of this State be, and is hereby, requested to
  cause a copy of this act, authenticated under the seal of the State, to
  be furnished to the President of the United States by mail as early as
  practicable, and also a copy thereof, certified in like manner, to be
  transmitted to each of the Senators and Representatives of Texas in
  Congress. And that this act take effect from and after its passage.

  C. G. KEENAN,
  Speaker of the House of Representatives.

  JOHN A. GREER,
  President of the Senate.

Approved, November 25, 1850.

P.H. BELL.

From the common sources of public information it would appear that a very remarkable degree
of unanimity prevailed, not only in the legislature, but among the people of Texas, in respect
to the agreement of the State to that which had been proposed by Congress.

I can not refrain from congratulating Congress and the country on the success of this great
and leading measure of conciliation and peace. The difficulties felt and the dangers apprehended
from the vast acquisitions of territory under the late treaty with Mexico seem now happily
overcome by the wisdom of Congress. Within that territory there already exists one State, respectable
for the amount of her population, distinguished for singular activity and enterprise, and remarkable
in many respects from her condition and history. This new State has come into the Union with
manifestations not to be mistaken of her attachment to that Constitution and that Government
which now embrace her and her interests within their protecting and beneficent control.

Over the residue of the acquired territories regular Territorial governments are now established
in the manner which has been most usual in the history of this Government. Various other acts
of Congress may undoubtedly be requisite for the benefit as well as for the proper government
of these so distant parts of the country. But the same legislative wisdom which has triumphed
over the principal difficulties and accomplished the main end may safely be relied on for whatever
measures may yet be found necessary to perfect its work, so that the acquisition of these vast
regions to the United States may rather strengthen than weaken the Constitution, which is over
us all, and the Union, which affords such ample daily proofs of its inestimable value.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 17, 1850.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit a letter from the Secretary of War, communicating a report of a board of
officers to which, in pursuance of a resolution of the Senate passed on the 30th of September
last, were submitted the questions proposed therein, relative to the expediency and necessity
of creating additional grades of commissioned officers in the Army and of enacting provisions
authorizing officers of the Army to exercise civil functions in emergencies to be enumerated
and restraining them from usurping the powers of civil functionaries.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 30, 1850.

[Footnote 3: Correspondence with the Austrian chargé d'affaires respecting the appointment
or proceedings of the agent sent to examine and report upon the condition and prospects of
the Hungarian people during their struggle for independence.]

WASHINGTON, January 3, 1851.

To the House of Representatives:

By a resolution passed by the House of Representatives on the 24th day of July, 1850, the President
was requested to cause to be prepared and communicated to the House certain opinions of the
Attorneys-General therein specified. On inquiry I learned that the force employed in the Attorney-General's
Office was not sufficient to perform this work; consequently, I employed Benjamin F. Hall,
esq., a counselor at law, on the 9th day of September last, to execute it, and requested him
to commence it immediately. I informed him that I was not authorized to give any other assurances
as to compensation than that it rested with Congress to provide and fix it. I believe Mr. Hall
to be in all respects competent and well fitted for the task which he has undertaken, and diligent
in the performance of it; and it appears to me that the most just mode of compensation will
be to make a per diem allowance of $8 per day for the time actually employed, to be paid on
the certificate of the Attorney-General.

I also transmit herewith a portion of the manuscript prepared in pursuance of said resolution,
with a letter from Mr. Hall to me indicating the mode in which he thinks the work should be
prepared and printed, which appears to me worthy of consideration and adoption by the House.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 10, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have the honor herewith to transmit to the Senate a communication from the Secretary of the
Navy on the subject of the discipline of the Navy, suggesting such amendments of the law as
may be necessary in consequence of the recent act abolishing flogging; to which I respectfully
invite the immediate attention of Congress.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 14, 1851.

Their reports have been made, and I have the honor herewith to submit copies of them, together
with bills drafted substantially in accordance therewith, on the subject of rank in each branch
of the service.

The subject is one of great interest, and it is highly important that it should be settled
by legislative authority and with as little delay as possible consistently with its proper
examination.

The points on which it will be perceived that the two boards disagree in regard to relative
rank between officers of the Army and Navy are not esteemed of very great practical importance,
and the adoption of the rule proposed by either would be acceptable to the Executive.

But even if a decision on these shall be suspended, it is hoped that the bills which are designed
to regulate rank, precedence, and command in the Army and Navy as separate branches of service
may receive the sanction of Congress, with such amendments as may be deemed appropriate, in
the course of the present session.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 3, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 4: Correspondence relative to the possessory rights of the British Hudsons Bay Company
in Oregon.]

WASHINGTON, February 12, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 5: Correspondence with Spain relative to the claim of the owners of the schooner
Amistad for compensation on account of the liberation of negroes on board said vessel.]

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith communicate to the Senate, for its consideration, a general convention between the
United States and the Swiss Confederation, concluded and signed at Berne on the 25th day of
November last by Mr. A. Dudley Mann on the part of the United States and by Messrs. Druey and
Frey-Hérosée on the part of the Swiss Confederation. I communicate at the same time a copy
of the instructions under which Mr. Mann acted and his dispatch of the 30th November last,
explanatory of the articles of the convention.

In submitting this convention to the consideration of the Senate I feel it my duty to invite
its special attention to the first and fifth articles. These articles appear to contain provisions
quite objectionable, if, indeed, they can be considered as properly embraced in the treaty-making
power.

The second clause of the first article is in these words:

  In the United States of America citizens of Switzerland shall be
  received and treated in each State upon the same footing and upon the
  same conditions as citizens of the United States born in or belonging to
  other States of the Union.

It is well known that according to the Constitution of the United States a citizen of one State
may hold lands in any other State; and States have, sometimes by general, sometimes by special,
laws, removed the disabilities attaching to foreigners not naturalized in regard to the holding
of land. But this is not supposed to be a power properly to be exercised by the President and
Senate in concluding and ratifying a treaty with a foreign state. The authority naturally belongs
to the State within whose limits the land may lie. The naturalization of foreigners is provided
for by the laws of the United States, in pursuance of the provision of the Constitution; but
when, under the operation of these laws, foreigners become citizens of the United States, all
would seem to be done which it is in the power of this Government to do to enable foreigners
to hold land. The clause referred to, therefore, appears to me inadmissible.

The fourth clause of the same article provides, among other things, that citizens of Switzerland
may, within the United States, acquire, possess, and alienate personal and real estate, and
the fifth article grants them the power of disposing of their real estate, which, perhaps,
would be no otherwise objectionable, if it stood by itself, than as it would seem to imply
a power to hold that of which they are permitted to dispose.

These objections, perhaps, may be removed by striking out the second clause of the first article
and the words "and real" in the fourth clause. An amendment similar to the last here suggested
was made by the Senate in the convention between the United States and the King of Bavaria,
the ratification of which, as amended, the Senate advised and consented to on the 15th day
of March, 1845.

But there is another and a decisive objection, arising from the last clause in the first article.
That clause is in these words:

  On account of the tenor of the federal constitution of Switzerland,
  Christians alone are entitled to the enjoyment of the privileges
  guaranteed by the present article in the Swiss Cantons. But said
  Cantons are not prohibited from extending the same privileges to
  citizens of the United States of other religious persuasions.

It is quite certain that neither by law, nor by treaty, nor by any other official proceeding
is it competent for the Government of the United States to establish any distinction between
its citizens founded on differences in religious beliefs. Any benefit or privilege conferred
by law or treaty on one must be common to all, and we are not at liberty, on a question of
such vital interest and plain constitutional duty, to consider whether the particular case
is one in which substantial inconvenience or injustice might ensue. It is enough that an inequality
would be sanctioned hostile to the institutions of the United States and inconsistent with
the Constitution and the laws.

Nor can the Government of the United States rely on the individual Cantons of Switzerland for
extending the same privileges to other citizens of the United States as this article extends
to Christians. It is indispensable not only that every privilege granted to any of the citizens
of the United States should be granted to all, but also that the grant of such privilege should
stand upon the same stipulation and assurance by the whole Swiss Confederation as those of
other articles of the convention.

There have been instances, especially some of recent occurrence, in which the Executive has
transmitted treaties to the Senate with suggestions of amendment, and I have therefore thought
it not improper to send the present convention to the Senate, inviting its attention to such
amendments as appeared to me to be important, although I have entertained considerable doubt
whether it would not be better to send back the convention for correction in the objectionable
particulars before laying it before the Senate for ratification.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 10th instant, calling for information relative
to a contract alleged to have been made by Mr. I.D. Marks with the Mexican Government, I transmit
a report from the Secretary of State and the documents[6] which accompanied it.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 6: Relating to drafts upon the Treasury of the United States by Mexico on account
of indemnity due that Government in pursuance of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.]

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 15, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

In addition to the information heretofore communicated, I now transmit to the Senate a report
from the Secretary of State, with accompanying papers,[7] in answer to their resolution of
the 28th ultimo.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 7: Additional correspondence relative to the seizure of the British ship Albion.]

WASHINGTON, February 15, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit to the Senate a report[8] from the Secretary of State, in answer to their
resolution of the 10th instant.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 8: Relating to taxation by New Granada on United States citizens when in transitu
across the Isthmus of Panama, and to the United States mail service at said Isthmus.]

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1851.

The PRESIDENT OF THE SENATE:

In addition to the papers already transmitted to the Senate in compliance with its resolution
of the 28th ultimo, I have the honor herewith to transmit an additional report[9] from the
Secretary of the Treasury.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 9: Relating to the seizure of the British ship Albion.]

EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT, February 19, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received the resolution of the Senate of the 18th instant, requesting me to lay before
that body, if not incompatible with the public interest, any information I may possess in regard
to an alleged recent case of a forcible resistance to the execution of the laws of the United
States in the city of Boston, and to communicate to the Senate, under the above conditions,
what means I have adopted to meet the occurrence, and whether in my opinion any additional
legislation is necessary to meet the exigency of the case and to more vigorously execute existing
laws.

The public newspapers contain an affidavit of Patrick Riley, a deputy marshal for the district
of Massachusetts, setting forth the circumstances of the case, a copy of which affidavit is
herewith communicated. Private and unofficial communications concur in establishing the main
facts of this account, but no satisfactory official information has as yet been received; and
in some important respects the accuracy of the account has been denied by persons whom it implicates.
Nothing could be more unexpected than that such a gross violation of law, such a high-handed
contempt of the authority of the United States, should be perpetrated by a band of lawless
confederates at noonday in the city of Boston, and in the very temple of justice. I regard
this flagitious proceeding as being a surprise not unattended by some degree of negligence;
nor do I doubt that if any such act of violence had been apprehended thousands of the good
citizens of Boston would have presented themselves voluntarily and promptly to prevent it.
But the danger does not seem to have been timely made known or duly appreciated by those who
were concerned in the execution of the process. In a community distinguished for its love of
order and respect for the laws, among a people whose sentiment is liberty and law, and not
liberty without law nor above the law, such an outrage could only be the result of sudden violence,
unhappily too much unprepared for to be successfully resisted. It would be melancholy indeed
if we were obliged to regard this outbreak against the constitutional and legal authority of
the Government as proceeding from the general feeling of the people in a spot which is proverbially
called "the Cradle of American Liberty." Such, undoubtedly, is not the fact. It violates without
question the general sentiment of the people of Boston and of a vast majority of the whole
people of Massachusetts, as much as it violates the law, defies the authority of the Government,
and disgraces those concerned in it, their aiders and abettors.

It is, nevertheless, my duty to lay before the Senate, in answer to its resolution, some important
facts and considerations connected with the subject.

A resolution of Congress of September 23, 1789, declared:

  That it be recommended to the legislatures of the several States to
  pass laws making it expressly the duty of the keepers of their jails
  to receive and safe keep therein all prisoners committed under the
  authority of the United States until they shall be discharged by the
  course of the laws thereof, under the like penalties as in the case of
  prisoners committed under the authority of such States respectively;
  the United States to pay for the use and keeping of such jails at the
  rate of 50 cents per month for each prisoner that shall, under their
  authority, be committed thereto during the time such prisoner shall be
  therein confined, and also to support such of said prisoners as shall
  be committed for offenses.

And a resolution of Congress of March 3, 1821, provides that--

  Where any State or States, having complied with the recommendation of
  Congress in the resolution of the 23d day of September, 1789, shall have
  withdrawn, or shall hereafter withdraw, either in whole or in part, the
  use of their jails for prisoners committed under the authority of the
  United States, the marshal in such State or States, under the direction
  of the judge of the district, shall be, and hereby is, authorized and
  required to hire a convenient place to serve as a temporary jail, and to
  make the necessary provision for the safe-keeping of prisoners committed
  under the authority of the United States until permanent provision shall
  be made by law for that purpose; and the said marshal shall be allowed
  his reasonable expenses incurred for the above purposes, to be paid out
  of the Treasury of the United States.

These various provisions of the law remain unrepealed.

By the law of Massachusetts, as that law stood before the act of the legislature of that State
of the 24th of March, 1843, the common jails in the respective counties were to be used for
the detention of any persons detained or committed by the authority of the courts of the United
States, as well as by the courts and magistrates of the State. But these provisions were abrogated
and repealed by the act of the legislature of Massachusetts of the 24th of March, 1843.

That act declares that--

  No judge of any court of record of this Commonwealth and no justice of
  the peace shall hereafter take cognizance or grant a certificate in
  cases that may arise under the third section of an act of Congress
  passed February 12, 1793, and entitled "An act respecting fugitives
  from justice and persons escaping from the service of their masters,"
  to any person who claims any other person as a fugitive slave within
  the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth.

And it further declares that--

  No sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, constable, jailer, or other officer
  of this Commonwealth shall hereafter arrest or detain, or aid in the
  arrest or detention or imprisonment, in any jail or other building
  belonging to this Commonwealth, or to any county, city, or town thereof,
  of any person for the reason that he is claimed as a fugitive slave.

And it further declares that--

  Any justice of the peace, sheriff, deputy sheriff, coroner, constable,
  or jailer who shall offend against the provisions of this law by in any
  way acting, directly or indirectly, under the power conferred by the
  third section of the act of Congress aforementioned shall forfeit a sum
  not exceeding $1,000 for every such offense to the use of the county
  where said offense is committed, or shall be subject to imprisonment
  not exceeding one year in the county jail.

This law, it is obvious, had two objects.

It is deeply to be lamented that the purpose of these enactments is quite apparent. But these
acts of State legislation, although they may cause embarrassment and create expense, can not
derogate either from the duty or the authority of Congress to carry out fully and fairly the
plain and imperative constitutional provision for the delivery of persons bound to labor in
one State and escaping into another to the party to whom such labor may be due. It is quite
clear that by the resolution of Congress of March 3, 1821, the marshal of the United States
in any State in which the use of the jails of the State has been withdrawn, in whole or in
part, from the purpose of the detention of persons committed under the authority of the United
States is not only empowered, but expressly required, under the direction of the judge of the
district, to hire a convenient place for the safe-keeping of prisoners committed under authority
of the United States. It will be seen from papers accompanying this communication that the
attention of the marshal of Massachusetts was distinctly called to this provision of the law
by a letter from the Secretary of the Navy of the date of October 28 last. There is no official
information that the marshal has provided any such place for the confinement of his prisoners.
If he has not, it is to be regretted that this power was not exercised by the marshal under
the direction of the district judge immediately on the passage of the act of the legislature
of Massachusetts of the 24th of March, 1843, and especially that it was not exercised on the
passage of the fugitive-slave law of the last session, or when the attention of the marshal
was afterwards particularly drawn to it.

It is true that the escape from the deputy marshals in this case was not owing to the want
of a prison or place of confinement, but still it is not easy to see how the prisoner could
have been safely and conveniently detained during an adjournment of the hearing for some days
without such place of confinement. If it shall appear that no such place has been obtained,
directions to the marshal will be given to lose no time in the discharge of this duty.

I transmit to the Senate the copy of a proclamation issued by me on the 18th instant in relation
to these unexpected and deplorable occurrences in Boston, together with copies of instructions
from the Departments of War and Navy relative to the general subject. And I communicate also
copies of telegraphic dispatches transmitted from the Department of State to the district attorney
and marshal of the United States for the district of Massachusetts and their answers thereto.
From which it appears that the Army and Navy are by the Constitution placed under the control
of the Executive; and probably no legislation of Congress could add to or diminish the power
thus given but by increasing or diminishing or abolishing altogether the Army and Navy. But
not so with the militia. The President can not call the militia into service, even to execute
the laws or repel invasions, but by the authority of acts of Congress passed for that purpose.
But when the militia are called into service in the manner prescribed by law, then the Constitution
itself gives the command to the President. Acting on this principle, Congress, by the act of
February 28, 1795, authorized the President to call forth the militia to repel invasion and
"suppress insurrections against a State government, and to suppress combinations against the
laws of the United States, and cause the laws to be faithfully executed." These words are broad
enough to require a proclamation in all cases where militia are called out under that act,
whether to repel invasion or suppress an insurrection or to aid in executing the laws. This
section has consequently created some doubt whether the militia could be called forth to aid
in executing the laws without a previous proclamation. But yet the proclamation seems to be
in words directed only against insurgents, and to require them to disperse, thereby implying
not only an insurrection, but an organized, or at least an embodied, force. Such a proclamation
in aid of the civil authority would often defeat the whole object by giving such notice to
persons intended to be arrested that they would be enabled to fly or secrete themselves. The
force may be wanted sometimes to make the arrest, and also sometimes to protect the officer
after it is made, and to prevent a rescue. I would therefore suggest that this section be modified
by declaring that nothing therein contained shall be construed to require any previous proclamation
when the militia are called forth, either to repel invasion, to execute the laws, or suppress
combinations against them, and that the President may make such call and place such militia
under the control of any civil officer of the United States to aid him in executing the laws
or suppressing such combinations; and while so employed they shall be paid by and subsisted
at the expense of the United States.

Congress, not probably adverting to the difference between the militia and the Regular Army,
by the act of March 3, 1807, authorized the President to use the land and naval forces of the
United States for the same purposes for which he might call forth the militia, and subject
to the same proclamation. But the power of the President under the Constitution, as Commander
of the Army and Navy, is general, and his duty to see the laws faithfully executed is general
and positive; and the act of 1807 ought not to be construed as evincing any disposition in
Congress to limit or restrain this constitutional authority. For greater certainty, however,
it may be well that Congress should modify or explain this act in regard to its provisions
for the employment of the Army and Navy of the United States, as well as that in regard to
calling forth the militia. It is supposed not to be doubtful that all citizens, whether enrolled
in the militia or not, may be summoned as members of the posse comitatus, either by the marshal
or a commissioner according to law, and that it is their duty to obey such summons. But perhaps
it may be doubted whether the marshal or a commissioner can summon as the posse comitatus an
organized militia force, acting under its own appropriate officers, without the consent of
such officers. This point may deserve the consideration of Congress.

I use this occasion to repeat the assurance that so far as depends on me the laws shall be
faithfully executed and all forcible opposition to them suppressed; and to this end I am prepared
to exercise, whenever it may become necessary, the power constitutionally vested in me to the
fullest extent. I am fully persuaded that the great majority of the people of this country
are warmly and strongly attached to the Constitution, the preservation of the Union, the just
support of the Government, and the maintenance of the authority of law. I am persuaded that
their earnest wishes and the line of my constitutional duty entirely concur, and I doubt not
firmness, moderation, and prudence, strengthened and animated by the general opinion of the
people, will prevent the repetition of occurrences disturbing the public peace and reprobated
by all good men.

MILLARD FILLMORE

WASHINGTON, February 25, 1851.

Accompanying the treaty is a letter from Mr. P.A. Hargous, the present proprietor and holder
of the privileges granted by Mexico, signifying his assent to and acceptance of the terms of
its provisions. There is also an abstract of title to him from the original grantee and copies
of the several powers and conveyances by which that title is derived to him. It may be well
that these papers should be returned to be deposited among the archives of the Department of State.

The additional article of the treaty makes an unnecessary reference to the eleventh, twelfth,
and thirteenth articles of the treaty of the 22d of June last, because the eleventh, twelfth,
and thirteenth articles of the present treaty contain exactly the same provisions as those
contained in the same articles of that treaty, as will appear from the copy of the treaty of
the 22d of June last, herewith communicated.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 10: Portugal.]

WASHINGTON, February 27, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 11: Correspondence relative to prisoners captured by Spanish authorities at or near
the island of Contoy, and to projected expeditions to Cuba.]

WASHINGTON, February 28, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 16th ultimo, requesting information touching
the difficulties between the British authorities and San Salvador, I transmit a report from
the Secretary of State and the documents which accompanied it.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 1, 1851.

Hon. Howell Cobb,

Speaker of the House of Representatives:

I have the honor herewith to transmit to the House of Representatives manuscript No. 2 of the
opinions of the Attorneys-General, prepared in pursuance of its resolution.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 3, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE. The State of Texas will agree that her boundary on the north shall commence
at the point at which the meridian of 100° west from Greenwich is intersected by the parallel
of 36° 30' north latitude, and shall run from said point due west to the meridian of 103° west
from Greenwich; thence her boundary shall run due south to the thirty-second degree of north
latitude; thence on the said parallel of 32° of north latitude to the Rio Bravo del Norte,
and thence with the channel of said river to the Gulf of Mexico.

"Second. The State of Texas cedes to the United States all her claim to territory exterior
to the limits and boundaries which she agrees to establish by the first article of this agreement.

"Third. The State of Texas relinquishes all claim upon the United States for liability of the
debts of Texas and for compensation or indemnity for the surrender to the United States of
her ships, forts, arsenals, custom-houses, custom-house revenue, arms and munitions of war,
and public buildings with their sites, which became the property of the United States at the
time of the annexation.

"Fourth.

"Fifth.

Now, therefore, I, Millard Fillmore, President of the United States of America, do hereby declare
and proclaim that the said act of the Congress of the United States of the 9th of September
last is in full force and operation.

Given under my hand and the seal of the United States this 18th day of February, 1851.

[SEAL.]

MILLARD FILLMORE.

DANL. WEBSTER,
  Secretary of State.

[From Executive Journal of the Senate, Vol. VIII, p. 299.]

WASHINGTON, March 3, 1851.

To the Senators of the United States, respectively.

SIR: Whereas divers and weighty causes connected with executive business necessary to be transacted
create an extraordinary occasion requiring that the Senate be convened, you are therefore requested,
as a member of that body, to attend a meeting thereof to be holden at the Capitol, in the city
of Washington, on the 4th day of March instant.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, March 4, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

Sundry nominations having been made during the last session of the Senate which were not finally
disposed of, I hereby nominate anew each person so nominated at the last session whose nomination
was not finally acted on before the termination of that session to the same office for which
he was nominated as aforesaid.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 10, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 12: Correspondence with the United States minister at Constantinople respecting the
liberation of Kossuth and his companions.]

PROCLAMATIONS.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

A PROCLAMATION.

Given under my hand the 25th day of April, A.D. 1851, and the seventy-fifth of the Independence
of the United States.

[SEAL.]

MILLARD FILLMORE.

By the President:
  W.S. DERRICK,
    Acting Secretary of State.

I therefore exhort all well-disposed citizens who have at heart the reputation of their country
and are animated with a just regard for its laws, its peace, and its welfare to discountenance
and by all lawful means prevent any such enterprise; and I call upon every officer of this
Government, civil or military, to be vigilant in arresting for trial and punishment every such
offender.

Given under my hand the 22d day of October, A.D. 1851, and the seventy-sixth of the Independence
of the United States.

[SEAL.]

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 15, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit to the Senate a report[13] of the Secretary of State, in answer to their resolution
of the 8th of March last.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 13: Relating to the free navigation of the St. Lawrence, St. John, and other large
rivers, and to the free enjoyment of the British North American fisheries by United States
citizens.]

WASHINGTON, December 15, 1851.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received a resolution of the Senate, adopted on the 12th instant, in the following terms:

  Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to
  communicate to the Senate, if not inconsistent with the public interest,
  any information the Executive may have received respecting the firing
  into and seizure of the American steamship Prometheus by a British
  vessel of war in November last near Greytown, on the Mosquito Coast,
  and also what measures have been taken by the Executive to ascertain
  the state of the facts and to vindicate the honor of the country.

In answer to this request I submit to the Senate the accompanying extracts from a communication
addressed to the Department of State by Mr. Joseph L. White, as counsel of the American, Atlantic
and Pacific Ship Canal Company, dated 2d instant.

This communication is the principal source of the information received by the Executive in
relation to the subject alluded to, and is presumed to be essentially correct in its statement
of the facts. Upon receiving this communication instructions such as the occasion seemed to
demand were immediately dispatched to the minister of the United States in London. Sufficient
time has not elapsed for the return of any answer to this dispatch from him, and in my judgment
it would at the present moment be inconsistent with the public interest to communicate those
instructions. A communication, however, of all the correspondence will be made to the Senate
at the earliest moment at which a proper regard to the public interest will permit.

At the same time instructions were given to Commodore Parker, commanding the Home Squadron,
a copy of which, so far as they relate to the case of the Prometheus, is herewith transmitted
to the Senate.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 16, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 14: On the subject of a ship canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.]

WASHINGTON, December 23, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 15: Relating to the conclusion of a treaty between Spain, France, and Great Britain
in respect to the island of Cuba.]

[Footnote 16: Pertaining to the relative strength of the British, French, and United States
squadrons in the West India seas, and whether additional appropriations are necessary to increase
the United States force on that station.]

WASHINGTON, December 23, 1851.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 29, 1851.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a copy of a letter of the 26th instant, addressed to the Secretary of State
by the contractors for paying the next installment due to Mexico pursuant to the treaty of
Guadalupe Hidalgo, representing the necessity of an immediate appropriation by Congress of
the money necessary for that purpose.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 2, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

As a further answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 15th ultimo, calling
for information respecting the imprisonment, trial, and sentence of John S. Thrasher in the
island of Cuba, I transmit another report from the Secretary of State.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[The same message, dated January 6, 1852, was sent to the Senate.]

WASHINGTON, January 3, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I nominate Elisha Whittlesey and Elias S. Terry to be commissioners under the seventeenth article
of the treaty concluded with the Cherokee tribe of Indians at New Echota on the 29th day of
December, 1835, to adjudicate the claim of David Taylor for 640 acres of land, which has been
duly appraised in accordance with the terms of the ninth article of said treaty, but not paid
for. The facts of the case will more fully appear in the accompanying papers from the Department
of the Interior.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 5, 1852. The appropriation the expediency of which is suggested in the
report I cordially commend to the consideration of Congress, with the single additional suggestion
that to be available it should be promptly made.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 12, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 17: Relating to a circular issued by the secretary of state for the British colonial
department relative to the employment in the British West India colonies of free blacks and
liberated slaves from the United States.]

WASHINGTON, January 16, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit a copy of a letter which has been addressed to me by the secretary of the Territory
of Utah since my recent message to the House of Representatives in answer to its resolution
requesting information in regard to the affairs of that Territory.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 19, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE

WASHINGTON, January 20, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I communicate to both Houses of Congress a report from the Department of State, containing
copies of the correspondence which has taken place between that Department and the minister
of the United States in Paris respecting the political occurrences which have recently taken
place in France.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 22, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate passed March 13, 1851, I herewith transmit a
report of the Secretary of War, containing information in regard to the claims of citizens
of California for services rendered and for money and for property furnished in 1846 and 1847
in the conquest of that country.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 23, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit a report from the Secretary of State and the documents which accompanied it, upon
the subject of a resolution of the House of Representatives of yesterday, relative to the Mexican
indemnity.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

A copy of a dispatch of Mr. J.R. Clay, the chargé d'affaires of the United States at Lima,
to the Secretary of State, bearing date the 6th December last, is also transmitted for the
information of the Senate.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 10, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit to Congress a copy of the instruction dispatched from the Department of State to
the minister of the United States at London respecting the attack on the United States steamer
Prometheus in the harbor of San Juan de Nicaragua by the British brig of war Express, and also
a copy of the dispatches of Mr. Lawrence to that Department and of his correspondence with
Her Britannic Majesty's principal secretary of state for foreign affairs on the same subject.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

EXECUTIVE CHAMBER,

Washington City, February 10, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 12, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 13, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 14, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

I communicate to the House of Representatives herewith a report to me, dated the 13th instant,
from the Secretary of the Interior, respecting the delay and difficulty in making the apportionment
among the several States of the Representatives in the Thirty-third Congress, as required by
the act of 23d May, 1850, in consequence of the want of full returns of the population of the
State of California, and suggesting the necessity for remedial legislation.

The subject is one of much importance, and I earnestly commend it to the early consideration
of Congress.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[The same message was sent to the Senate.]

WASHINGTON, February 16, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 16, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith communicate to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to ratification, a
treaty of commerce and navigation concluded by the minister resident of the United States at
Constantinople with the chargé d'affaires of the Shah of Persia at the same place. The treaty
is in the Persian and French languages, but is accompanied by an English translation. A copy
of the correspondence between the Department of State and the legation of the United States
at Constantinople on the subject is also herewith communicated.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives requesting the official correspondence
respecting an alleged misunderstanding between Captain Long, of the Navy of the United States,
and Louis Kossuth, I transmit reports from the Secretaries of State and of the Navy and the
papers which accompanied them.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 1, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

In compliance with the provisions of the act of Congress of the 11th August, 1848, I transmit
to that body the copy of a dispatch from the commissioner ad interim of the United States at
Canton, together with the copy of certain rules and regulations for masters, officers, and
seamen of vessels of the United States of America at the free ports of China, which accompanied
said dispatch, and which are submitted for the revision of Congress.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 4, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit to Congress a dispatch addressed to the Secretary of State by the minister of the
United States at Mexico, and the papers therein referred to, relative to the cemetery which
has been constructed in the neighborhood of that city as a place of sepulture for the remains
of the officers and soldiers of the United States who died or were killed in that vicinity
during the late war, and for such citizens of the United States as may hereafter die there.
A copy of the report of the agent who was sent for the purpose of superintending the work is
also herewith transmitted. It will be seen that a sum of $2,500 or $3,000, in addition to the
amount appropriated by the act of Congress approved September 28, 1850, is represented to be
necessary to carry the objects of that appropriation into full effect. I accordingly recommend
that provision therefor may be made.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 25, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

As a further answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 5th of January
last, requesting information in regard to a circular of Her Britannic Majesty's secretary of
state for colonial affairs in respect to the encouragement of the emigration of colored laborers
from the United States to the British West India islands, I transmit another dispatch addressed
to the Department of State by the minister of the United States at London.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 26, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

At the close of the commission to adjudicate upon the claims of citizens of the United States
under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo I directed a list to be made of papers which had been
presented to that commission, and, pursuant to the act of Congress approved 3d March, 1849,
the papers themselves to be carefully arranged and deposited for safe-keeping in the Department
of State. I deemed all this necessary as well for the interest of the claimants as to secure
the Government against fraudulent claims which might be preferred hereafter. A few days since
I was surprised to learn that some of these papers had been fraudulently abstracted by one
of the claimants, and upon the case being made known to me by the Secretary of State I referred
it to the Attorney-General for the purpose of ascertaining what punishment could be inflicted
upon the person who had been guilty of this offense.

I now communicate to you his opinion and that of the attorney of the United States for this
District, by which you will perceive that it is doubtful whether there be any law for punishing
the very grave offense of fraudulently abstracting or mutilating the papers and public documents
in the several Departments of this Government. It appears to me that the protection of the
public records and papers requires that such acts should be made penal and a suitable punishment
inflicted upon the offender, and I therefore bring the subject to your consideration, to enable
you to act upon it should you concur with me in this opinion.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 26, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 18th instant, I transmit
a copy of the correspondence with John P. Gaines, governor of the Territory of Oregon, relative
to the seat of government of said Territory.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, March 29, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 24th instant, relating to the extension
of the Capitol, I have the honor to submit herewith a report from the Secretary of the Interior,
which furnishes, it is believed, the required information.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON CITY, March 29, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have the resolution of your honorable body adopted in executive session March 24, 1852, by
which I am requested to return to the Senate the resolution advising and consenting to the
appointment of George C. Laurason as collector of the customs for the district of New Orleans,
provided a commission had not been issued to him, and in reply thereto I would respectfully
state that prior to the receipt of said resolution I had signed the commission to Mr. Laurason
and transmitted it to the Secretary of the Treasury, to whom your resolution was immediately
referred; and I have the honor now to transmit his reply, by which it will be seen that the
commission, after having been duly executed, was sent to the First Comptroller, where it still
remains. I suppose, according to the doctrine laid down in the case of Marbury v. Madison (1
Cranch R., 137), the appointment must be deemed complete, and nothing short of the removal
of Mr. Laurason can enable me again to submit his nomination to the consideration of the Senate;
but as the commission has not been technically issued to Mr. Laurason, I deem it most respectful
to comply with your request by returning the copy of the resolution which notified me that
the Senate advised and consented to his appointment.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON CITY, April 6, 1852.

To the House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution of the House of the 31st ultimo, I have the honor herewith
to transmit a report from the Secretary of War, accompanied by the original manuscript report
of Captain Thomas J. Crane, dated February 3, 1844, on the best mode of improving the navigation
of the Ohio River at the Falls of Louisville, together with the original maps accompanying
the same.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, April 8, 1852.

[Footnote 20: Relating to the relations between the United States and Japan.]

WASHINGTON, April 19, 1852. In order to enable Congress to understand the controversy and apply
such remedy with a view to adjust it as may be deemed expedient, I transmit--

1. An act of the legislative assembly of that Territory, passed February 1, 1851, entitled
"An act to provide for the selection of places for the location and erection of public buildings
of the Territory of Oregon."

2. Governor Gaines's message to the legislative assembly of the 3d February, 1851.

3. The opinion of the Attorney-General of the United States of 23d April, in regard to the
act of the legislative assembly of the 1st February, 1851.

4. The opinion of the supreme court of Oregon, pronounced on the 9th December, 1851.

5. A letter of Judge Pratt of the 15th December, 1851, dissenting from that opinion.

6. Governor Gaines's letter to the President of the 1st January, 1852.

7. Report of the Attorney-General of the United States on that letter, dated 22d March, 1852.

If it should be the sense of Congress that the seat of government of Oregon has not already
been established by the local authorities pursuant to the law of the United States for the
organization of that Territory, or, if so established, should be deemed objectionable, in order
to appease the strife upon the subject which seems to have arisen in that Territory I recommend
that the seat of government be either permanently or temporarily ordained by act of Congress,
and that that body should in the same manner express its approval or disapproval of such laws
as may have been enacted in the Territory at the place alleged to be its seat of government,
and which may be so enacted until intelligence of the decision of Congress shall reach there.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, May 1, 1852. A copy of a note from the special plenipotentiary of Hamburg, Bremen,
and Lubeck accompanies the convention.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, May 5, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

On the 3d of March, 1849, a general convention of peace, amity, commerce, and navigation between
the United States and the Republic of Guatemala, by Elijah Hise, the chargé d'affaires of the
United States to that Republic, on the part of this Government, and by Señor Don Jose Mariano
Rodriguez, minister for foreign affairs, on the part of the Government of Guatemala. This convention
was approved by the Senate on the 24th of September, 1850, and by a resolution of the 27th
of that month that body authorized the ratification of this Government to be exchanged for
the ratification of the Government of Guatemala at any time prior to the 1st of April, 1851.
I accordingly ratified the convention on the 14th of November, 1850, but there was then no
person in this country authorized to effect the exchange of ratifications on the part of the
Guatemalan Government, and the United States had no diplomatic representative there. When,
however, in the summer of 1851, Mr. J. Bozman Kerr proceeded to Nicaragua as the chargé d'affaires
of the United States, he was empowered and instructed, when he should have concluded the business,
which it was presumed would not have detained him long, in Nicaragua, to repair to Guatemala
and effect the exchange on the part of this Government. Circumstances, however, have hitherto
prevented him from accomplishing this object. Meanwhile Señor Don Felipe Molina has been received
as chargé d'affaires of Guatemala here, and has been empowered to effect the exchange on the
part of that Government.

I accordingly recommend that the Senate authorize a further extension of the period for exchanging
the ratifications, in order that the convention may go into operation. It is presumed that
if this recommendation should be adopted a few weeks from the date of the decision of the Senate
upon the subject would be necessary to complete the preparations for carrying it into effect.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, May 29, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

The resolution of the Senate of the 6th instant, requesting the "papers and proofs on file
in any of the Executive Departments touching the claim of Samuel A. Belden & Co., of Brownsville,
Tex., against the Mexican Government for injuries inflicted upon said Belden & Co., as alleged
by them in violation of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo," was referred to the heads of those
Departments, and the documents herewith transmitted have been reported to me from the Department
of State as comprising all on the files of that Department called for by the resolution, with
the exception of those of a diplomatic character. As the claim referred to is a subject of
negotiation with the Mexican Government, it is not deemed expedient at this juncture to make
public the documents which have been reserved. According to the reports of the Secretary of
the Treasury, of the Secretary of the Interior, of the Secretary of War, of the Secretary of
the Navy, and of the Postmaster-General, there are no papers in their respective Departments
relative to the claim of Messrs. Belden & Co.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 1, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 11, 1852. A copy of two dispatches to this department from Mr. Balestier,
who concluded the convention on the part of this Government, one dated the 22d of April and
the other the 24th June, 1851, is also transmitted for the information of the Senate. As the
period limited for the exchange of the ratifications, which is to be effected at Bruni, will
expire on the 23d instant, I recommend that if the Senate should approve the convention authority
may be given to perform that ceremony within a year from that date. The instrument would have
been submitted to the Senate in season for the ratification to be exchanged within the stipulated
time had not Mr. Balestier's arrival with it in the United States been unavoidably delayed.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 11, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 14, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, for your consideration, a report from the Secretary of State, accompanied
by a communication from His Excellency Señor Don A. Calderon de la Barca, envoy extraordinary
and minister plenipotentiary of Her Catholic Majesty, claiming indemnity for those Spanish
subjects in New Orleans who sustained injury from the unlawful violence of the mob in that
city consequent upon hearing the news of the execution of those persons who unlawfully invaded
Cuba in August, 1851. My own views of the national liability upon this subject were expressed
in the note of the Secretary of State to Mr. Calderon of the 13th November, 1851, and I do
not understand that Her Catholic Majesty's minister controverts the correctness of the position
there taken. He, however, insists that the thirteenth article of the treaty of 1795 promises
indemnity for such injuries sustained within one year after the commencement of war between
the two nations, and although he admits this is not within the letter of the treaty, yet he
conceives that, as between two friendly nations, it is within the spirit of it.

This view of the case is at his request submitted for your consideration, but whether you may
deem it correct or not, there is, perhaps, one ground upon which this indemnity, which can
not be large in amount, may be granted without establishing a dangerous precedent, and the
granting of which would commend itself to the generous feelings of the entire country, and
that is this: The Queen of Spain, with a magnanimity worthy of all commendation, in a case
where we had no legal right to solicit the favor, granted a free pardon to all the persons
who had so unjustifiably invaded her dominions and murdered her subjects in Cuba, in violation
of her own laws as well as those of the United States and the public law of nations. Such an
act of mercy, which restored many misguided and unfortunate youth of this country to their
parents and friends, seems to me to merit some corresponding act of magnanimity and generosity
on the part of the Government of this country, and I think that there can be none more appropriate
than to grant an indemnity to those Spanish subjects who were resident among us and who suffered
by the violence of the mob, not on account of any fault which they themselves had committed,
but because they were the subjects of the Queen of Spain. Such an act would tend to confirm
that friendship which has so long existed between the two nations and to perpetuate it as a
blessing to both, and I therefore recommend it to your favorable consideration.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 22, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 21: Correspondence of the American chargé at Vienna on the subject of the apprehension
and imprisonment by the Austrian authorities of Rev. Charles L. Brace, an American citizen.]

WASHINGTON, June 22, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, June 23, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 22: Correspondence relative to the withdrawal of Mr. Hülsemann, chargé d'affaires
from Austria to the United States.]

WASHINGTON, June 26, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit and commend to the consideration of the Senate a report from the Secretary of State,
touching the convention between the United States and the Mexican Republic for the mutual extradition
of fugitives from justice in certain cases, which convention I submitted to the Senate soon
after I entered upon the office of President of the United States.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, June 26, 1852.

The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:

It was understood that at the close of the Administration of your predecessor an extradition
treaty was concluded in this city between the United States and the Mexican Republic, which,
however, was submitted to the Senate by yourself, but before I entered upon my present office.

It is presumed that as the treaty has not been returned to this Department the Senate has made
no decision in regard to it.

The necessity for a compact upon that subject between the two Governments, whose territories,
being conterminous, afford great facilities for wrongdoers in the one to screen themselves
from punishment by seeking refuge in the other, would at all times be obvious, but at the present
juncture may be considered as urgent.

I would consequently suggest that the attention of the Senate be respectfully invited to the
matter, in order that if the treaty before them should be deemed objectionable another, embodying
such amendments as may be supposed to be necessary, may be proposed to the Mexican Government.

Respectfully submitted,

DANL. WEBSTER.

WASHINGTON, June 26, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received and taken into respectful consideration the resolution of the Senate of yesterday,
adopted in executive session, requesting information in regard to supposed negotiations between
the United States and Great Britain and between the United States and the Republics of Nicaragua
and Costa Rica, respectively. Any information which may be in the possession of the Executive
on these subjects shall in due time be laid before the Senate, but it is apprehended that it
would not comport with the public interests to communicate it under existing circumstances.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

This request has been taken into the most respectful consideration, but the conclusion at which
I have arrived is that the public interest would not be promoted, but, on the contrary, might
under circumstances of possible occurrence, be seriously endangered if it were now to be complied
with.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON CITY, July 1, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

On the 26th ultimo I received a resolution of the Senate, passed in executive session, in the
following words:

  Resolved, That the President of the United States be requested to
  inform the Senate, if not in his opinion incompatible with the public
  interest, whether any convention or compact has been entered into on the
  part of the United States and the Government of Great Britain whereby
  the two Governments jointly recommend or advise the Republics of Costa
  Rica and Nicaragua, or either of those Republics, and the Mosquito
  Indians, inhabiting the Mosquito Coast, in Central America, on matters
  affecting their several and respective boundaries, or whereby any
  recommendation or advice is given to either of said Republics or said
  Indians respecting the territorial rights thereafter to be enjoyed or
  observed by them respectively, or in any other manner affecting or
  regulating the relations hereafter to be maintained between said
  Republics themselves, or either of them, and the said Indians concerning
  their territorial boundaries or other matters thereto appertaining. And
  if there be any such convention or compact, then that the President be
  requested to communicate the same, or a copy thereof, to the Senate, and
  to inform the Senate whether the same was made at the request or
  invitation of either of said Republics or of said Indians, or with their
  privity, approbation, or consent. And that the President be further
  requested to communicate to the Senate copies of all correspondence
  between the Executive and Great Britain, or with either of said
  Republics of Central America, touching said convention, and of all
  documents connected therewith. And if such convention or compact has
  been made, that the President be further requested to inform the Senate
  whether the same has been formally communicated to the respective
  Governments of Nicaragua and Costa Rica and the Mosquito Indians on the
  part of the Governments of Great Britain and the United States, and in
  what form such communications have been made to them, and that he lay
  before the Senate copies of any instructions that have been given to the
  representatives or agents of the United States at Nicaragua and Costa
  Rica touching such convention and the matters therein contained, with
  copies of like instructions to any naval officer of the United States
  relating to or in any manner concerning the said convention or its
  communication to said Republics or said Indians.

Great was my surprise to observe this morning in one of the public journals a statement of
what purports to be a proposition, jointly signed by Her Britannic Majesty's minister here
and the Secretary of State, for the adjustment of certain claims to territory between Nicaragua,
Costa Rica, and the Mosquito Indians. I have caused immediate inquiry to be made into the origin
of this highly improper publication, and shall omit no proper or legal means for bringing it
to light. Whether it shall turn out to have been caused by unfaithfulness or breach of duty
in any officer of this Government, high or low, or by a violation of diplomatic confidence,
the appropriate remedy will be immediately applied, as being due not only to this Government,
but to other governments. And I hold this communication to be especially proper to be made
immediately by me to the Senate, after what has transpired on this subject, that the Senate
may be perfectly assured that no information asked by it has been withheld and at the same
time permitted to be published to the world.

This publication can not be considered otherwise than as a breach of official duty by some
officer of the Government or a gross violation of the confidence necessary always to be reposed
in the representatives of other nations. An occurrence of this kind can not but weaken the
faith so desirable to be preserved between different governments and to injure the negotiations
now pending, and it merits the severest reprobation.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON CITY, July 2, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit, for the advice and consent of the Senate, a treaty recently negotiated
with the Chickasaw Nation of Indians.

The nature and objects of the treaty are fully explained by the report of Mr. Harper, who negotiated
it in behalf of the United States.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, July 2, 1852.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

By an act of Congress approved on the 10th day of February, 1852, an appropriation of $6,000
was made for the relief of American citizens then lately imprisoned and pardoned by the Queen
of Spain, intended to provide for the return of such of the Cuban prisoners as were citizens
of the United States who had been transported to Spain and there pardoned by the Spanish Government.
It will be observed that no provision was made for such foreigners or aliens as were engaged
in the Cuban expedition, and who had shared the fate of American citizens, for whose relief
the said act was intended to provide. I now transmit a report from the First Comptroller, with
accompanying papers, from which it will be perceived that fifteen foreigners were connected
with that expedition, who were also pardoned by the Queen of Spain, and have been transported
to the United States under a contract made with our consul, at an expense of $1,013.34, for
the payment of which no provision has been made by law. The consul having evidently acted with
good intentions, the claim is submitted for the consideration of Congress.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

EXECUTIVE MANSION,

Washington City, July 26, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

In obedience to your resolution adopted in executive session June 11, 1852, I have the honor
herewith to communicate a report[23] from the Secretary of the Interior, containing the information
called for by that resolution.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 23: Relating to the boundary line between the United States and Mexico.]

WASHINGTON, July 27, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 24: Upon the subject of the American and Mexican boundary commission.]

WASHINGTON, July 31, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 2, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 23d ultimo, requesting information in regard
to the fisheries on the coasts of the British possessions in North America, I transmit a report
from the Acting Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied. Commodore
M.C. Perry, with the United States steam frigate Mississippi under his command, has been dispatched
to that quarter for the purpose of protecting the rights of American fishermen under the convention
of 1818.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 9, 1852.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

I transmit a report from the Acting Secretary of State and the documents by which it was accompanied,
in answer to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 22d ultimo, on the subject
of the fisheries, and state for the information of that House that the United States steam
frigate Mississippi has been dispatched to the fishing grounds on the coasts of the British
possessions in North America for the purpose of protecting the rights of American fishermen
under the convention between the United States and Great Britain of the 20th of October, 1818.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 10, 1852. It will be seen that the exchange was not effected until the 2d
of June last, but that it was stipulated that the convention was not to be binding upon either
of the parties thereto until the Senate of the United States should have duly sanctioned the
exchange.

The Senate by its resolution of the 27th of September, 1850, authorized the exchange to take
place at any time prior to the 1st of April, 1851.

Mr. Kerr, the chargé d'affaires of the United States to Nicaragua, however, who was authorized
to make the exchange on the part of this Government, was unavoidably detained in that Republic,
in consequence of which the exchange could not be effected within the period referred to.

The expediency of sanctioning the exchange which has been made by Mr. Kerr, and of authorizing
the convention to go into effect, is accordingly submitted to the consideration of the Senate.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 12, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 14, 1852.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received a resolution from your honorable body of the 6th instant, appearing to have
been adopted in open legislative session, requesting me "to inform the Senate, if not incompatible
with the public interests, whether any propositions have been made by the King of the Sandwich
Islands to transfer the sovereignty of these islands to the United States, and to communicate
to the Senate all the official information on that subject in my possession;" in reply to which
I have to state that on or about the 12th day of June last I received a similar resolution
from the Senate adopted in executive or secret session, to which I returned an answer stating
that in my opinion a communication of the information requested at that juncture would not
comport with the public interest. Nothing has since transpired to change my views on that subject,
and I therefore feel constrained again to decline giving the information asked.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 21, 1852. The instructions to the squadron of the United States called for
by the resolution will be communicated on an early future occasion.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, August 27, 1852. This report is accompanied by a copy of the orders of the Navy
Department to Commodore McCauley, requested by the resolution of the Senate of the 9th instant.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 25: Special agent of the United States in the island of St. Domingo.]

WASHINGTON, August 27, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

EXECUTIVE ORDERS.

WASHINGTON CITY,

May 17, 1852.

The SECRETARY OF WAR.

MY DEAR SIR: I have just issued an authority to Hugh Maxwell, collector at New York, under
the eighth section of the act of April 20, 1818, to arrest any unlawful expedition that may
be attempted to be fitted out within his district, and I have given him power to call upon
any military and naval officers that may be there to aid him in the execution of this duty;
and I will thank you to issue the necessary instructions to the proper military officer in
that district.

I am, your obedient servant,

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON CITY,

Tuesday, June 29, 1852--12.30 o'clock p.m.

SIR:[26] The tolling bells announce the death of the Hon. Henry Clay. Though this event has
been long anticipated, yet the painful bereavement could never be fully realized. I am sure
all hearts are too sad at this moment to attend to business, and I therefore respectfully suggest
that your Department be closed for the remainder of the day.

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[Footnote 26: Addressed to the heads of the several Executive Departments.]

WASHINGTON, September 13, 1852.

General Jos. G. TOTTEN.

SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 11th instant and to say that I
shall be pleased if you will cause the necessary surveys, projects, and estimates for determining
the best means of affording the cities of Washington and Georgetown an unfailing and abundant
supply of good and wholesome water to be made as soon as possible.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

MILLARD FILLMORE.

[From the Daily National Intelligencer, October 26, 1852.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION,

Washington, Monday Morning, October 25, 1852.

The ACTING SECRETARY OF STATE and the SECRETARIES OF THE TREASURY, INTERIOR, WAR, NAVY, the
ATTORNEY-GENERAL and POSTMASTER-GENERAL.

GENTLEMEN: The painful intelligence received yesterday enforces upon me the sad duty of announcing
to the Executive Departments the death of the Secretary of State. Daniel Webster died at Marshfield,
in Massachusetts, on Sunday, the 24th of October, between 2 and 3 o'clock in the morning.

Whilst this irreparable loss brings its natural sorrow to every American heart and will be
heard far beyond our borders with mournful respect wherever civilization has nurtured men who
find in transcendent intellect and faithful, patriotic service a theme for praise, it will
visit with still more poignant emotion his colleagues in the Administration, with whom his
relations have been so intimate and so cordial.

The fame of our illustrious statesman belongs to his country, the admiration of it to the world.
The record of his wisdom will inform future generations not less than its utterance has enlightened
the present. He has bequeathed to posterity the richest fruits of the experience and judgment
of a great mind conversant with the greatest national concerns. In these his memory will endure
as long as our country shall continue to be the home and guardian of freemen.

The people will share with the Executive Departments in the common grief which bewails his
departure from amongst us.

The Acting Secretary of State will communicate this sad intelligence to the diplomatic corps
near this Government and, through our ministers abroad, to foreign governments.

The members of the Cabinet are requested, as a further testimony of respect for the deceased,
to wear the usual badges of mourning for thirty days.

I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, December 8, 1852.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 4, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 4, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the Senate's resolution of the 3d instant, calling for information relative to
a proposed tripartite convention on the subject of the island of Cuba, I transmit to the Senate
a report from the Secretary of State and the papers which accompanied it.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 12, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

In pursuance of the eleventh article of the treaty with the Chickasaw Indians signed on the
20th day of October, 1832, I herewith transmit a recommendation from the Secretary of the Treasury
for the investment of a portion of the funds belonging to said nation, for the purpose of obtaining
the advice and consent of the Senate to make the investment as therein recommended.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

JANUARY 17, 1853.

WASHINGTON, January 17, 1853.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a communication lately received at the Department of State from the minister
of Her Most Catholic Majesty, accompanied by a letter of instructions from the Spanish Government
relative to the case of the Amistad. In Mr. Calderon's communication reference is had to former
letters addressed by him to the Department of State on the same subject, copies of which are
herewith transmitted, and an earnest wish is expressed that a final settlement of this long-pending
claim should be made. The tone of the letter of instructions from Mr. Manuel Bertran de Lis
is somewhat more peremptory than could be wished, but this circumstance will not, probably,
prevent Congress from giving his suggestions the attention to which they may be entitled.

The claim of the Spanish Government on behalf of its subjects interested in the Amistad was
the subject of discussion during the Administration of President Tyler between the Spanish
minister and Mr. Webster, then Secretary of State. In an elaborate letter of the latter, addressed
to the Chevalier d'Argais on the 1st of September, 1841, the opinion is confidently maintained
that the claim is unfounded. The Administration of President Polk took a different view of
the matter. The justice of the claim was recognized in a letter from the Department of State
to the Spanish minister of the 19th of March, 1847, and in his annual message of the same year
the President recommended its payment.

Under these circumstances the attention of Congress is again invited to the subject. Respect
to the Spanish Government demands that its urgent representation should be candidly and impartially
weighed. If Congress should be of opinion that the claim is just, every consideration points
to the propriety of its prompt recognition and payment, and if the two Houses should come to
the opposite conclusion it is equally desirable that the result should be announced without
unnecessary delay.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 18, 1853.

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:

I have the honor herewith to transmit a report from the Secretary of the Interior, from which
it appears that the efforts of that Department to induce the Indians remaining in Florida to
migrate to the country assigned to their tribe west of the Mississippi have been entirely unsuccessful.
The only alternative that now remains is either to compel them by force to comply with the
treaty made with the tribe in May, 1832, by which they agreed to migrate within three years
from that date, or allow the arrangement made with them in 1842, referred to in the Secretary's
report, by which they were permitted to remain in the temporary occupancy of a portion of the
peninsula until the Government should see fit to remove them, to continue.

It can not be denied that the withholding so large a portion of her territory from settlement
is a source of injury to the State of Florida; and although, ever since the arrangement above
referred to, the Indians have manifested a desire to remain at peace with the whites, the presence
of a people who may at any time and upon any real or fancied provocation be driven to acts
of hostility is a source of constant anxiety and alarm to the inhabitants on that border.

There can be no doubt, also, that the welfare of the Indians would be promoted by their removal
from a territory where frequent collisions between them and their more powerful neighbors are
daily becoming more inevitable.

On the other hand, there is every reason to believe that any manifestation of a design to remove
them by force or to take possession of the territory allotted to them would be immediately
retaliated by acts of cruelty on the defenseless inhabitants.

The number of Indians now remaining in the State is, it is true, very inconsiderable (not exceeding,
it is believed, 500), but owing to the extent of the country occupied by them and its adaptation
to their peculiar mode of warfare, a force very disproportioned to their numbers would be necessary
to capture them, or even to protect the white settlements from their incursions. The military
force now stationed in that State would be inadequate to these objects, and if it should be
determined to enforce their removal or to survey the territory allotted to them some addition
to it would be necessary, as the Government has but a small force available for that service.
Additional appropriations for the support of the Army would also, in that event, be necessary.

For these reasons I have deemed it proper to submit the whole matter to Congress, for such
action as they may deem best.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 19, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 21, 1853.

To the House of Representatives of the United States:

In obedience to a resolution of your honorable body of December 27, 1852, in reference to claims
of custom-house officers for additional pay, I have the honor herewith to transmit a report
from the Secretary of the Treasury giving the desired information; and in answer to the seventh
interrogatory, asking "whether in my opinion further legislation is necessary or advisable
either to protect the Treasury from unjust claims or to secure to the claimants their just
rights," I would state that in my opinion no further legislation is necessary to effect either
object. My views on this subject will be more fully seen on reference to an opinion given by
me to the Secretary of the Treasury, a copy of which is annexed to his report.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 24, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 27, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, January 27, 1853.

To the House of Representatives:

Since my last message to your honorable body, communicating a report from the Treasury Department,
in answer to your resolution of the 3d instant [27th ultimo?], in reference to the compensation
of weighers and gangers, further communications on that subject have been received from New
Orleans, which have just been reported to me by the Secretary of the Treasury and which I deem
it my duty to communicate to the House.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 3, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith to the Senate in a new draft the convention with the Swiss Confederation,
originally negotiated at Berne and concluded in that city on the 25th of November, 1850. On
the 7th of March, 1851, it was considered by the Senate of the United States, whose assent
was given to it with certain amendments, as will appear from the Journal of the Senate of that
day. The convention was sent back to Switzerland with these alterations, which were taken into
consideration by the Government of that Confederation, whose action in the premises will be
learned by a letter from its President of the 5th of July, 1852.

The modifications which the Government of the Swiss Confederation are desirous of introducing
into the amendments made by the Senate of the United States and the articles affected by them
are not inconsistent with the object and spirit of those amendments, and appear to me to proceed
upon a reasonable principle of compromise.

I have thought it expedient, in submitting them to the Senate with a view to their advice and
consent to the ratification of the treaty in its present form, to have the entire instrument
taken into a continuous draft, as well the portions--by far the greater part--already assented
to by the Senate as the modifications proposed by the Government of the Swiss Confederation
in reference to these amendments. In preparing the new draft a few slight alterations have
been made in the modifications proposed by the Swiss Government.

Should the convention receive the approbation of the Senate in its present form, it will be
immediately transmitted to Switzerland for ratification by the Swiss Confederation.

The delays which have taken place in the negotiation of this treaty have been principally caused
by the want of a resident diplomatic agent of the United States at Berne, and are among the
reasons for which an appropriation for a chargé d'affaires to that Government has recently,
by my direction, been recommended in a letter from the Department of State to the chairman
of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 3, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 7, 1853.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

Having in my message to Congress at the opening of the session adverted to the pending negotiations
between this Government and that of Great Britain relative to the fisheries and commercial
reciprocity with the British American Provinces, I transmit for the information of Congress
the accompanying report from the Department of State on the present state of the negotiations,
and I respectfully invite the attention of the two Houses to the suggestion in the latter part
of the report.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 9, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 14, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1853.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I transmit a report from the Secretary of State, embodying the substance of recent communications
made by the minister of Her Britannic Majesty to the Department of State on the subject of
the interoceanic canal by the Nicaragua route, which formed the chief object of the treaty
between the United States and Great Britain of the 19th April, 1850, and the relations of Great
Britain to the protectorate of Mosquito, which she expresses herself desirous of relinquishing
on terms consistent with her honorable engagements to the Indians of that name.

In consequence of these communications and other considerations stated in the report, it is
deemed advisable by the Department that our diplomatic relations with the States of Central
America should be placed on a higher and more efficient footing, and this measure meets my
approbation. The whole subject is one of so much delicacy and importance that I should have
preferred, so near the close of my Administration, not to make it the subject of an Executive
communication. But inasmuch as the measure proposed can not, even if deemed expedient by my
successor, take effect for near a twelvemonth unless an appropriation is made by this Congress,
I have thought it my duty to submit the report of the Department to the two Houses. The importance
of the measure seemed to require an exposition somewhat in detail of the grounds on which it
is recommended.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 18, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 19, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 21, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with your resolution of the 19th of February instant, I herewith communicate
a report from the Secretary of War, containing the report of Lieutenant Meigs, of the Engineer
Corps, on the surveys, projects, and estimates for supplying the cities of Washington and Georgetown
with an unfailing and abundant supply of water.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 21, 1853.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 23, 1853. Although it is stipulated by the terms of the first article
of the convention that the commissioner on the part of this Government shall be appointed by
the President of the United States, it is not understood that this stipulation was intended
to dispense with the concurrence of the Senate in such appointment.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 26, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit a copy of a proclamation of yesterday, which I deemed it advisable to issue, relative
to an extraordinary session of the Senate on the 4th of March next.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

WASHINGTON, February 28, 1853.

To the Senate of the United States:

I herewith transmit, for the consideration and advice of the Senate, a treaty recently entered
into with the Apache Indians in New Mexico by Colonel Stunner and Mr. Greiner, acting on behalf
of the United States, together with the letter of Colonel Sumner on the subject of the treaty
and reports thereon from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and the Secretary of the Interior.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

PROCLAMATION.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

MILLARD FILLMORE.

By the President:
  EDWARD EVERETT,
    Secretary of State.

