The singer was crossing the courtyard now with steps of exaggerated carefulness.  Suddenly
he paused.  His dark eyes, in vague, alcoholic meditation, sought the distant peaks stained
with the blush-rose of sunset.  The evening-purple of the hills fringed the bay with mystery.
Gulls floated high on lavender wings, their intermittent plaint answering the Indian voices
that drifted up from the beach where the canoes were landing.

Kayak Bill moved over on the step, indicating the space beside him.

"Come along side o' me, son, and get yore bearin's!" he called.

"Yes, Harlan, stop your mooning and come here.  I want to talk to you."

Gregg Harlan turned, and the smile that parted his lips, though born in a liquor-fogged brain,
was singularly winning.

"Chief," his words came distinctly but with careful deliberation, "an outsider would think--that
I am--a--fellow of rare--judgment and s-sound phil-os-ophy from the way--you're always--wanting
to talk--to--me."

He advanced and seated himself on the steps near the base of the flag-pole, leaning heavily
against it.  The gay recklessness that is the immediate effect of the fiery native brew of
the North was evidently wearing away, and preceding the oblivion that was fast coming upon
him, stray glimpses of his past, bits of things he had read or heard, and snatches of poetry
flashed on the screen of his mind.

"It doesn't go with me--Chief.  Don't--bring on--your--little forest--maiden--Naleenah--again.
Tired--hearing about--her. Know--what you say: Up here--my people--never know.  Me--a squaw
man! Lord!  What do I want--with--a squaw?"  He laughed as at some blurred vision of his brain.
"It's not that--I'm so damned virtuous, Chief. But I'm--fas-fas-tid-ious.  That's it--fastidious----"

Paul Kilbuck's eyes flashed a cold steel grey.  "We'll see how fastidious you'll be a year
from now."  His lip lifted on one side exposing a long, pointed tooth.  "That'll be enough,
now, Harlan."

"Sure, 's enough--for me, Chief," admitted the young man with drowsy good nature, as his tousled
head sought a more comfortable place against the flagpole.  "Pardon--casting aspersions--on
your--taste in women, Chief.  Wouldn't do--it--if sober.  Hate to be sober.  Makes me feel--re-responsible
for so--many things. . . .  Hence flowing bowl. 'Member old Omar--unborn Tomorrow and dead--Yesterday.
. . .  Why fret 'bout it--if--if--today--be--sweet."  His voice trailed off in a murmur and
his boyish chin with its look of firmness despite his dejection, sank slowly on his breast.

The canoes had made a landing.  A dozen or more Thlinget women came straggling up the beach
laden with the fruits of their afternoon labors: gay-colored baskets of wild strawberries,
red and fragrant from the sand-dunes along the lagoon.  From the Indian Village, a short distance
down the curve of the beach where the smokes of evening fires were rising, a welcoming buck
or two came to accompany the softly laughing squaws.

Slightly in advance of the shawled figures moving toward the group on the steps walked one
whose slenderness and grace marked her from the rest.  A scarlet shawl splashed the cream of
her garments.  Unlike the other women, she wore no disfiguring handkerchief on her head.  Her
face, oval and creamy-brown, was framed by two thick braids that fell over her shoulders. 
In the crook of her arm rested a basket of berries.  At her side, rubbing against her now and
then, came a powerful huskie, beautiful with the lean grace of the wolf and paw-playing as
a kitten.

"Mush on,[1] Kobuk!  Mush--you!"  She laughed, pushing him aside as she advanced.

When she smiled up at the white men her face was lighted by long-lashed childish eyes, warm
and brown as a sun-shot pool in the forest.

The White Chief rose.  With an imperious gesture he motioned the other Indians back.

"Ah cgoo, Naleenah!  Come here!"  In rapid, guttural Thlinget he spoke to the girl, pointing
from time to time to the now unconscious Harlan.

As she listened the smile faded from her face.  Her smooth brow puckered. . . .  She turned
troubled eyes to Kayak Bill, sitting silent, imperturbable, in a cloud of tobacco smoke, his
interest apparently fixed where the slight breeze was ruffling the evening radiance of the water.

Still mutely questioning, Naleenah glanced at the figure of the young white man, slumped in
stupor against the flag-pole. . . .  A look of unutterable scorn distorted her face.  Then
she looked up at the White Chief shaking her head in quick negation.

At her rebellion Kilbuck's voice shot out stingingly like the lash of a whip.  With a hurt,
stunned expression the girl shrank back.  Her shawl shivered into a vivid heap about her feet.
The basket of berries slipped unheeded to the sand, their wild fragrance scenting the air about
her.

While he was still speaking she started forward, her wide, idolatrous eyes raised to his, her
little berry-stained hands held out beseechingly.

"No--no, Paul!"  Anguish and pleading were in her broken English.  "No, no!  I can not do!
Too mooch, too mooch I loof you, Paul!"  Brimming tears overflowed and rolled slowly down her
cheeks.

Kayak Bill rose hastily and stalked across the platform into the store. The White Chief turned
away with tightening lips, but there was no softening in his smoke-colored eyes.  It would
be to his interest to have his bookkeeper a squaw-man.  The old Hudson Bay Company factors
had proved the advantage of having their employees take Indian women. For his own health's
sake he must get rid of Naleenah.  The tubercular girl would live longer in the house of a
white man than with her own people, where he would soon be forced to send her.  He was, therefore,
doing her a kindness in turning her over to Harlan.

He lighted a cigarette, inhaled a deep draught, and tossing the scarcely burned weed away,
crossed deliberately to the huddled figure of Gregg Harlan.  He shook him by the shoulder.

"Wake up!" he ordered, "and go to your bunk."

From Kayak Bill's cabin doorway several men drifted curiously toward the store steps.  The
natives gathered closer.

The bookkeeper raised his head and passed a slow hand over bewildered eyes.

"Beg--pardon, Chief," he said quickly, as he rose on unsteady legs, "making sleeping porch--of
your--steps. . . .  Awf-lly tired. . ." Wavering, he clung for support to the flag-pole.

With a peremptory gesture Kilbuck motioned to Naleenah.

"Take this man to his cabin," he snapped, "and--" he paused significantly, "remember what I
have told you."

The girl came forward with drooping head and listless arms.  She paused dully beside the flag-pole.
The trader placed the arm of the stupefied young man across her slim shoulders.  Obediently
she led her charge away in the direction of the small cabins across the courtyard.

Though the eyes of the spectators had been intent on the drama of the steps, only Kayak Bill,
perhaps, knew its real significance.  The old man now stood in the doorway of the store, his
sombrero pushed to the back of his head, a pair of binoculars held against his eyes.

From around the point beyond the Indian Village and into the bay, a white-sailed schooner had
drifted.  As it advanced there was wafted across the water a faint and silvery fragment of
melody which endured but a moment and was gone.

The White Chief turned his back on the courtyard and for the first time noted Kayak Bill's
attitude.  He followed the direction of the old man's gaze and beheld the incoming vessel just
as the white men and Indians behind him broke out in a babble of interest and curiosity.

There floated inshore the rattle of the windlass letting go the anchor chain.  On the deck
of the schooner men ran about as the sails were lowered.  The vessel swung gently until the
bow headed into the current of the incoming tide.

"Get out the canoe, Silvertip," ordered the trader, turning to his henchman, "and take Swimming
Wolf with you.  Find out who's----"

He broke off, wondering, incredulous, for at that moment across the water came the golden singing
of a violin.  Wonderfully low and tender it began.  Swelling, it rose and soared and trembled,
then with lingering, chorded sweetness died away like the exquisite music of a dream.

The listeners on the shore stood spellbound.  Gregg Harlan, swaying in the doorway of his cabin,
steadied himself while the silvery harmony stole into his clouded senses.

"Strange--strange," he muttered, "a violin--playing like that--in Katleean.  Dreams--more--dreams--"
He stumbled into the room and the weeping Indian girl guided his footsteps to the narrow bunk
in the corner.

In the after-sunset light that precedes the long Alaskan twilight there is some rare quality
that seems to bring nearer objects on the water. Kayak Bill in the doorway, took another long
look through the glasses, then stepped down to the White Chief's side.  His voice was the first
to break the enchanted silence that followed the strains of the violin.

"That wind-jammer's the Hoonah I been a-tellin' you of, Chief," he drawled, holding out the
binoculars.  "There's two women aboard o' her, instead o' one.  'Pears to me like one o' them's
purty young, and it's her that's standin' in the stern a-playin' o' the fiddle."

[1] Corruption of the French marchez, marche, which the Canadian coureurs du bois used to shout
to their dogs, meaning to go forward, advance.

CHAPTER III

THE LITTLE SQUAW WITH WHITE FEET

The morning after the arrival of the schooner, Gregg Harlan woke with an aching head and trembling
limbs.  As he sat on the edge of his bunk holding his fingers against his throbbing temples,
he made a mental vow that he would drink no more of Kayak Bill's liquor; that today he would
settle down to the business that had brought him to Katleean.  He had made the same vow every
morning since his landing--made it earnestly, intending to keep it, but there was something
in the air of the trading-post that made irresistible the reckless camaraderie engendered by
the hootch-cup; something that emphasized that very quality of gay irresponsibility he had
come North to lose.

The stale, close air of his little cabin sent waves of nausea through him.  Hatless and coatless
he sought the open air.  He turned his steps instinctively toward the point beyond the Indian
Village.  On the other side, screened from sight of the post, he was accustomed to take the
daily plunge in the bay that enabled him to throw off the immediate effects of his hard drinking.

As he stumbled along, his lack-lustre eyes rested but a moment on the schooner in the bay.
He had not been long enough away from the world to be other than faintly interested in the
arrival, and his recollections of the night before were nil.

The tide was low.  The fresh, keen scent of seaweed came up from the Point refreshing his sickened
senses.  Noisy gulls wheeled and tilted over the brown, kelp-covered rocks and on the ridge
back of the Indian graveyard, ravens answered the gull cries with raucous soliloquies.

He was nearing the Point when his eye was attracted by a splash of white among the boulders.
Something peculiar in its outline drew his inquiring steps.  At the sound of crunching gravel
under his feet a great huskie dog rose almost from under him.  The young man sprang aside with
a startled exclamation.  Against the wet sand the dog's dark coat had been practically invisible.

"Heavens, Kobuk, old boy!  I thought I was seeing things!"

He passed a damp hand over his brow.  The dog, strangely undemonstrative, advanced and placed
a sleek head against Gregg's knee, its pointed muzzle down, its tail hanging dispiritedly.
Vaguely wondering what the trader's favorite lead-dog was doing among the boulders on the Point,
Harlan patted the animal's broad back and turned to the object that had attracted his attention.

What he had at first taken to be seaweed was a mass of long dark hair. Beneath it a damp, clinging
cream-colored garment outlined the dead body of an Indian girl.

"God!" came Gregg's awed whisper, as he bent above the pitiful little heap.  "The White Chief's
Naleenah! . . .  Poor little devil!"

Steadied by the tragedy he did not understand, he stooped and gathered up the still form. 
He started back to the trader's quarters, little dreaming that the last earthly act performed
by those small hands now so still, had been for himself.  But if Kobuk, following close at
his heels, could have spoken, he would have told of the manner of her going, the night before.

The trading-post of Katleean had lain wrapped in moonlight and slumber when Naleenah, after
obeying her master's instructions to the extent of making the drunken young white man comfortable,
crept from the doorway of Harlan's cabin.  Kobuk, waiting outside for the mistress who had
fed him since puppy days, pressed closely to her side as she crossed the courtyard.

At the beachline, where silvered rice-grass grew tall among the piles of whitened driftwood,
she paused, looking with wistful eyes toward the Indian Village cuddled in the crescent curve
of the beach.  The weird, ghostly totems of her people rose above the roofs, catching the moonbeams
fearfully on their mystic carvings.  Stern and forbidding they seemed, as if guarding the quiet
shelters at their feet against one who had forsaken them for the more luxurious cabins of the
white man. . . .  Slowly she turned from the tribal emblems of her clan to look back at the
log trading-post, dim and softly grey and splashed with shadows. . . .  So still she stood
and so long, that the dog grew restless and rubbed his cold nose against her hand.  She sighed,
a tired, quivering sigh like that of a child who has been hurt, and with bowed head, stumbled
along the trail that led down to the water.

Over a dark line of hills glowed the glorious red-gold orb of Sha-hee-yi, The-Moon-When-All-Things-Make-Their-Winter-Homes.
Unbelievably large and round and clear it stood out against the night-blue, throwing a path
of shimmering gold across the bay to her little feet.  With eyes raised to its splendor, she
waded out slowly, steadily, into the moonlit, whispering waves. . . .

At the edge of the beach Kobuk settled on his haunches, watching her with questioning, side-turned
head.  He whined uneasily.

The scarlet shawl slipped from her shoulders and floated off behind her. . . .  The water crept
above her waist . . .  her shoulders.  Her wide-eyed, frightened face caught the light. . .
.  Then the ripples closed above her head.  A moment later her long hair, loosed from its braids,
swayed on the amber-lighted surface like seaweed, then the moonpath lay quiet as before.

On the shore Kobuk waited, his slant eyes blinking at the moon. Occasionally he raised his
pointed nose and uttered a muffled whine that ended in a short, querulous yelp. . . .  Hours
passed. . . .  The tide began to ebb, leaving a dark line of sand at the edge of the water.
. . .  After a long while Kobuk went in search of his mistress, and having found her, watched
beside her until Harlan came and bore her away.

As the young man ascended the steps to the store platform he was dimly aware of encountering
a tall, dark stranger, who afterward proved to be the owner of the schooner that had come in
the evening before.  Shane Boreland, whose figure was blocking the doorway, stepped aside to
let Gregg pass into the building with his burden.

From about the stove, where several men were already gathered, came low exclamations, and the
White Chief, who had been following Boreland to the door, stopped suddenly at the sight of
Harlan.  His face went as cold and emotionless as that of the dead girl.

"Take her in to Decitan," he said shortly, with a gesture toward his quarters back of the store.
Turning on his heel, he walked out to the platform where Boreland stood waiting.

"A damned sad ending to their little domestic difficulty," he murmured softly, as befitted
one with a large heart and a kindly understanding of the follies of youth.  "But young Harlan,
my bookkeeper, hasn't been long enough in the North to appreciate the intensity of these little
hot-blooded savages.  I told him, when he took Naleenah, . . ."  The Chief, as if he had said
too much, let his sentence trail off into silence.  He shook his head in apparent sorrow, but
his eyes were fixed on the schooner that rode at anchor in the bay.

"But don't let this incident mar your arrival, Boreland," Paul Kilbuck went on, and then, with
the frontier heartiness he knew so well how to assume, he set about tendering Boreland the
hospitality of the post, urging the prospector to bring his family ashore for a visit during
the time of the coming Potlatch.  This was a festival, he assured the master of the Hoonah,
which could not fail to interest Mrs. Boreland and her younger sister.

Even as the trader planned for the reception of the white women, the squaws who had borne him
children were preparing the body of little Naleenah for its resting place below the ridge where
the grave-houses and totems of the Thlinget dead huddled among the wild celery bushes.

Quietly that night, just before moon-set she was laid away so that her funeral might cast no
sadness on the coming visitors.  On the grave, the silent women of the household placed the
treasures that had been dear to the heart of the White Chief's favorite: a string of cheap
beads, a scarlet shawl, gaudy painted cup and two dead pigeons, progenitors of the flock that
now cooed and fluttered in and out of the high wire enclosure back of the store.

A week later on the ridge above the new-made grave of Naleenah, a white girl stood talking
to a small boy by her side.  Above the amber-freckled nose of the youngster wide grey eyes
were raised in eager coaxing to her face.  From the crown of his bare head, a lock of dark
red hair trembling with absurd earnestness stood up from the mass of its fellows.

"Oh, Je-an!  Don't put on your shoes and stockings just yet!  Let's have one more story before
we go back to the post.  P-l-e-a-s-e, Auntie Jean!"

Jean Wiley dropped to the ground a bundle made of her discarded footwear.  Earlier in the afternoon
her nephew's barefoot enjoyment of the beach sand had enticed her to remove her own shoes and
stockings, and delighting in the feel of the cool earth against her pink soles, she had not
replaced them when they decided to follow the trail to the ridge.  She tossed her head, and
even in the sunless afternoon, the dark mass of hair that tumbled down her back seemed shot
through with glints of copper.

"I wouldn't mind going without them always, Loll," she said, holding out a slim foot and contemplating
the freedom of her five, wriggling, perfect toes.  "But--" the foot took its place beside its
stationary twin, "you see, little man, it isn't done at my age, even in Katleean." Her long-lashed
hazel eyes, full of the dreams of eighteen happy years, laughed down at the boy, and her slender
fingers, that could coax such tender harmonies from the strings of a violin, busied themselves
with the ribbon that bound the hair at the back of her neck.

It was one of the lavender dream-days peculiar to the late summer of the North.  Faint wisps
of colorful mist clung to the pickets of the small fences in the Indian burial-place below
them.  The totems and the windows of the tiny grave-houses were filmed with it, and through
the dim glass appeared vague glimpses of the kettles, blankets and provision inside the houses
of the dead--material comforts which the Thlinget Indians provide for the departed soul's journey
over the Spirit Trail to the Ghost's Home.  On the quiet bay below, the Hoonah, blurred in
mist, tugged gently at her anchor.  Some hundred yards to the left smoke from the trading-post
rose above the alder trees.

"This is a dandy place for story-telling, Jean.  See!"  Little Laurence Boreland pointed to
the dim-limned schooner.  "The Hoonah looks like a ghost-ship out there.  Listen!  I'll tell
you the story Kayak Bill scared me most to death with last night.  Ugh!  It's spooky, Jean!"
The boy's eyes were round and his voice had lowered at the remembered thrills of terror.  He
tugged at the girl's short skirt, until she sat down beside him, tucking her slim bare feet
beneath her as she prepared to listen.

A raven, weird epitome of Thlinget myth and legend, croaked spasmodically from the white branch
of a dead spruce behind them.  The damp air had in it the freshness of new-cut hemlock boughs,
a wild, vigorous fragrance that stirs the imagination with strange, illusive promises of the
wilderness.

"And the door of the dead-house slowly opened," Loll ended his tale, pointing to the graveyard
below for local color, "and the door s-l-o-w-l-y opened and a long, white finger--a bony finger,
beckoned----"

He broke off with a gasp of astonishment and terror, for above the rank growth of Indian celery
in front of the lonely grave-house door, there was a sudden, unmistakable flutter of white.
So thoroughly had the little fellow lost himself in the weird mysteries of his own creating
that panic took possession of him, and communicated itself to the girl beside him.  They sprang
to their feet, and with one accord raced toward the trading-post.

Near the courtyard their footsteps slackened, and Jean began to recover herself, reminded of
her shoes and stockings left behind on the knoll. She became suddenly ashamed of her headlong
flight, precipitated, as she now saw, by the first breath of afternoon breeze as it came in
from the sea and fluttered a piece of weather-bleached canvas nailed over the grave-house door.

"Goodness, Loll, you frightened me nearly to death with your wild imaginings!" She laughed.
"Let's run back now and get our shoes and stockings."

The youngster laid a detaining hand on her arm.  "But, Jean," his shrill voice trembled, "didn't
you see it--the long, white skeleton finger?"

"Nonsense!"  She stood a moment pointing out the reason for the flutter of white, and as she
did so a group of Indians landing from canoes on the beach, came up the trail toward the post.
Curiously and quickly they gathered about the strangers.  Many of them had never before seen
a white girl or boy, specimens of the strange Letquoan, the Snow People from that far-away
land of the White Chief.  Solemn, black-eyed little toddlers peered cautiously out from under
their mother's shawls. Pretty young squaws with dark handkerchiefs over their heavy hair, jostled
one another to get a better view, and at the sight of the white girl, the young buck gallants
of the tribe straightened their shoulders and shifted their rifles to a jauntier angle.

In low, throaty tones, punctuated with long-drawn "Ah-a-a's" and occasional explosions of laughter,
they talked among themselves, pressing closer each moment.  From time to time a brown finger
pointing at Jean's bare feet evoked a general shaking of dark heads and more "Ah-a-a's" of
wonderment.

