A few seconds made a perceptible change as the thick, black smoke began to roll out of the
windows.  Then the lights began to grow into strength and I could see the room.  All the men
were overcome.  Beside the couch Doctor Winchester lay on his back as though he had sunk down
and rolled over; and on the farther side of the sarcophagus, where they had stood, lay Mr.
Trelawny and Mr. Corbeck.  It was a relief to me to see that, though they were unconscious,
all three were breathing heavily as though in a stupor.  Margaret still stood behind the couch.
She seemed at first to be in a partially dazed condition; but every instant appeared to get
more command of herself.  She stepped forward and helped me to raise her father and drag him
close to a window. Together we placed the others similarly, and she flew down to the dining-room
and returned with a decanter of brandy.  This we proceeded to administer to them all in turn.
It was not many minutes after we had opened the windows when all three were struggling back
to consciousness.  During this time my entire thoughts and efforts had been concentrated on
their restoration; but now that this strain was off, I looked round the room to see what had
been the effect of the experiment.  The thick smoke had nearly cleared away; but the room was
still misty and was full of a strange pungent acrid odour.

The great sarcophagus was just as it had been.  The coffer was open, and in it, scattered through
certain divisions or partitions wrought in its own substance, was a scattering of black ashes.
Over all, sarcophagus, coffer and, indeed, all in the room, was a sort of black film of greasy
soot.  I went over to the couch.  The white sheet still lay over part of it; but it had been
thrown back, as might be when one is stepping out of bed.

But there was no sign of Queen Tera!  I took Margaret by the hand and led her over. She reluctantly
left her father to whom she was administering, but she came docilely enough.  I whispered to
her as I held her hand:

"What has become of the Queen?  Tell me!  You were close at hand, and must have seen if anything
happened!"  She answered me very softly:

"There was nothing that I could see.  Until the smoke grew too dense I kept my eyes on the
couch, but there was no change.  Then, when all grew so dark that I could not see, I thought
I heard a movement close to me. It might have been Doctor Winchester who had sunk down overcome;
but I could not be sure.  I thought that it might be the Queen waking, so I put down poor Silvio.
I did not see what became of him; but I felt as if he had deserted me when I heard him mewing
over by the door. I hope he is not offended with me!"  As if in answer, Silvio came running
into the room and reared himself against her dress, pulling it as though clamouring to be taken
up. She stooped down and took him up and began to pet and comfort him.

I went over and examined the couch and all around it most carefully. When Mr. Trelawny and
Mr. Corbeck recovered sufficiently, which they did quickly, though Doctor Winchester took longer
to come round, we went over it afresh.  But all we could find was a sort of ridge of impalpable
dust, which gave out a strange dead odour.  On the couch lay the jewel of the disk and plumes
which the Queen had worn in her hair, and the Star Jewel which had words to command the Gods.

Other than this we never got clue to what had happened.  There was just one thing which confirmed
our idea of the physical annihilation of the mummy.  In the sarcophagus in the hall, where
we had placed the mummy of the cat, was a small patch of similar dust.

*    *    *    *    *

In the autumn Margaret and I were married.  On the occasion she wore the mummy robe and zone
and the jewel which Queen Tera had worn in her hair. On her breast, set in a ring of gold make
like a twisted lotus stalk, she wore the strange Jewel of Seven Stars which held words to command
the God of all the worlds.  At the marriage the sunlight streaming through the chancel windows
fell on it, and it seemed to glow like a living thing.

The graven words may have been of efficacy; for Margaret holds to them, and there is no other
life in all the world so happy as my own.

We often think of the great Queen, and we talk of her freely.  Once, when I said with a sigh
that I was sorry she could not have waked into a new life in a new world, my wife, putting
both her hands in mine and looking into my eyes with that far-away eloquent dreamy look which
sometimes comes into her own, said lovingly:

"Do not grieve for her!  Who knows, but she may have found the joy she sought? Love and patience
are all that make for happiness in this world; or in the world of the past or of the future;
of the living or the dead. She dreamed her dream; and that is all that any of us can ask!"

THE END