One of the most remarkable phenomena in the eyes of a stranger visiting Roumania is the application
of monastic edifices to lay uses. The monastery of Sinaïa is, for the present at least, a royal
palace; the Coltza Hospital at Bucarest is an old convent. At Brebu (or Bredu), near Campina,
is a monastery apportioned to the Asyle Hélène as a holiday residence for the girls; the State
archives are deposited in the monastery of Prince Michael in Bucarest, which has been set aside
as the residence of the learned philologist Professor Hasdeu, in whose charge they are placed;
and so, too, the 'intermediate' prison of Vakareschti is a large monastery close to Bucarest,
of which the towers are conspicuously visible as one enters the city by rail from Giurgevo.
On approaching this building, which stands upon a considerable eminence, by road from the capital,
the only feature which attracts attention, and shows that it is not an ordinary monastery,
is the sentinel pacing to and fro outside, but the moment you enter through the portal its
real character becomes apparent. You find yourself in a large square curtilage, or, more correctly
speaking, an extensive quadrilateral, in the centre of which stands a church of the usual Byzantine
order, the four sides of the quadrilateral being the old monastery buildings, two stories high,
converted into prisoners' cells and dormitories, kitchen, a workshop for making paper-backed
books (cartons), and the quarters of the prison officials. The scene as one enters the place
is a strange one indeed, and resembles what the Fleet Prison must have been in its palmy days,
with certain very significant modifications. It is the receptacle of various kinds of prisoners,
men and women awaiting trial and others undergoing short sentences. All those were, on the
occasion of our visit, at large in the court, and some of the first-named who were accused
of homicide were chained at the ankles by order of the 'Juge d'Instruction.' There were about
a dozen of them so manacled, and before we left (the Chief Inspector of Prisons being our guide)
these men complained bitterly of the hardship of being chained when, as they asserted, they
were innocent. All classes of prisoners seemed to associate without restraint, and although
perfect order prevailed, this freedom of association and conversation must be, and indeed is,
most inexpedient and injurious. Young men new to crime herd together with hardened criminals,
and we were told by a Juge d'Instruction, to whom we subsequently spoke on the matter, that
the free intercourse is greatly provocative of crime. 'Young fellows,' he said, 'who, when
they are first arraigned, are disposed to admit their guilt and repent, come before us, after
a temporary adjournment of their cases, with quite another story, evidently prompted by some
hardened criminal whom they have met in the intermediate prison.'

Every class was represented there, from the comparatively well-dressed swindler and forger
to the peasant and half-naked gipsy. The prisoners appear to be leniently treated, and those
who are unconvicted are permitted to purchase such food as they please. The cells and dormitories
are not very clean, but they are comfortable compared with those in another prison, to be referred
to presently; the ventilation within doors is good, and the open court has all the advantages
of a healthy convalescent institution. The food appeared very good; certainly the soup was
so, and altogether there could be no complaint on the score of harsh treatment, although some
men were, on sufficient grounds, placed in solitary confinement. The chief defects are free
intercourse amongst the prisoners, want of cleanliness, the absence of educational means, and
only partial employment of the prisoners, some of whom are engaged in the book manufactory,
whilst the greater proportion lounge about in idleness. Our guide, the Chief Inspector, expressed
great anxiety for an improved system, and pleaded, as usual, the want of necessary funds. Although
there appeared to be an amount of liberty inconsistent, as it seemed to us, with prison discipline,
all attempts at mutiny would be easily suppressed if they should arise; for there are always
about ninety soldiers in the barracks, attached to the prison, and the prisoners are well aware
that insubordination would be immediately quelled and punished. But we have said enough of
this rough and ready mode of dealing with the lighter forms of crime, and must now ask our
readers to accompany us on a somewhat unpleasant though interesting excursion to one of the
establishments where the worst class of convicts expiate their offences against society--a
penal salt mine.

IV.

There are five salt mines in Roumania,[73] two of which are worked by convicts, and the one
we propose to visit is that of Doftana, generally known as the Telega mine, which is situated
at a short distance from Campina, a station on the railway line, about halfway between Ploiesti
and Sinaïa. Before descending into the mine, however, a few particulars concerning the treatment
of the prisoners maybe of interest. These are men (never women nor young persons) sentenced
to penal servitude for a period of ten years or more, and until the year 1848 they lived, or
rather died a slow death, entirely in the mine. They were compelled to sleep in their clothes
on the floor of rock salt; never saw the light of day after they had once entered the mine;
and whatever might have been the nominal term of their sentence, disease and their unnatural
surroundings invariably cut short their miserable existence after about four years' confinement.
Now they work in the mine from 8 A.M. to 4 P.M. in winter, and from 6 A.M. to 6.30 P.M. in
summer, and then leaving it, they march to the penitentiary, about a mile distant. They work
in gangs of about six or seven, and each man is obliged to raise at least 700 kilogrammes (about
14 cwt.) of salt per day. For that quantity they receive, or at least they are credited with,
30 per cent, of their wages, which are fixed by tariff, and for all above 700 kilos they get
half their wages. These are reckoned at fourteen centimes per 100 kilos up to 600, and eighteen
centimes per 100 for all above. So far as the actual labour is concerned, we have no hesitation
in saying that it is not nearly so exhaustive nor painful as that of thousands of our English
colliers, besides being free from the dangers which constantly impend over our poor miners,
but there are some serious and quite unnecessary hardships inflicted upon the men. One of these
is that they get nothing to eat until noon, and therefore, unless they buy food with their
earnings, they must walk to and from their work and labour for several hours upon an empty
stomach; another is that the benevolent intentions of the State in regard to the stimulus of
remuneration are defeated by the neglect or dishonesty of certain of the officials. The prisoners
now rarely work out their term. Either their sentences are shortened for good conduct, or on
some special occasions a certain number are pardoned by royal grace, and we were informed that
they rarely die in penal servitude. And now let us descend into the mine, a proceeding which
will be facilitated in the reader's thoughts if he will kindly take before him our little plan,
which is reduced from the engineer's drawing of a section actually in use on the spot.

The descent is effected on foot through a vertical cylindrical shaft used for that purpose
only, and divided at intervals by platforms which communicate with one another by good broad
wooden staircases. The visitor is provided with a lighted candle attached to the end of a stick,
which serves at the same time as an excellent test of the purity or impurity of the air in
the mine, for the lower he descends, the more frequently he will find his light to be extinguished
by carbonic acid gas, arising chiefly from the exhalations of the convicts. There are no inflammable
gases in the mine, and the men work with naked lights. As he descends ladder or staircase after
staircase, the visitor becomes conscious of the presence of human beings in the mine, for strange
unearthly sounds greet his ear more and more plainly as he approaches the long gallery which
traverses the mine at about 110 feet below the surface; and this effect is rendered still more
weird through the surrounding darkness, relieved only by the faint light of his candle and
those of his companions. From moment to moment he hears hollow echoes of the human voice uttered
in snatches and accompanied by a continuous clanking of chains, which makes his blood creep
until he has become to some extent accustomed to the sound. The shaft through which he is descending
is cut and rounded with great precision, first through a mixture of clay and rock-salt, and
then in the solid rock-salt itself. To render it impervious to water he will find the wall
here and there lined with buffalo hides.[74]

Arrived at the horizontal gallery the visitor passes along it until he comes to a platform
guarded by a fence or railing, and then he finds himself near the roof of an enormous cave
which is probably unlike anything to be seen elsewhere.

We have been in a good many strange localities, and have witnessed many impressive scenes both
on and under the earth's surface, but we confess that none has ever been comparable to this
one. All is dark excepting where our candles cast a faint glimmer about our immediate neighbourhood,
and far below we now hear the voices, as well as the rattling of the convicts' chains, more
continuously and distinctly, and see numerous lights dancing about fitfully in small clusters.
Those are the candles of the convicts who are cutting rock-salt in gangs on the floor of the
cave.[75] Continuing our descent down another flight, or rather series of flights, of stairs,
we at length arrive at that floor which is about 200 feet from the surface, and there we find
ourselves surrounded by homicides, burglars, and the very dregs of the criminal ranks of Roumania.
There is no guard with us; and, indeed, of what use would even a small escort be against about
two hundred and fifty desperate ruffians armed with pickaxes if they thought fit to unite in
an assault upon our little party? They have no such intention, however, and the feeling of
the visitor is rather one of pain and sorrow to see so many able-bodied fellows manacled than
of fear in their presence.[76] The mode in which they get the salt is by cutting an oblong
figure in the floor, deepening this until it resembles a mound, and then cutting the block
thus formed transversely into smaller ones and breaking the salt out in lumps.

Their work, which is little if at all impeded by their light chains, is performed with pickaxes;
and, as already stated, they raise in this manner from 700 to 1,400 kilos (14 to 28 cwt.) per
day, which is conveyed to the surface through a special shaft.

The cave is 80 feet high and 400 feet long, and there is another smaller one at right angles
with it, shown by a dotted line upon the plan, and every part of it, floor, roof, and walls,
is of solid rock-salt. A curious effect is produced by the officials of the mine causing a
mass of lighted tow to be dropped through the shaft used for raising the salt, whilst the visitors
stand below; this partially illuminates the cave in its descent, and shows its vast proportions.
But there is nothing further to detain us in this great chamber of crime, so we will again
mount the ladders and seek the genial air and sunshine above ground. The penitentiary in which
the convicts are confined after they leave the mine is about a mile distant, and as we drive
thither we pass small bodies of them trudging along in the same direction and manacled at their
feet. It is a large barrack-like structure, with dirty dormitories, where the men lie in long
rows upon wretched pallets. The air of these dormitories is foul, and burning resin is used
to fumigate them. One of our companions, a young Roumanian, remarked that during the day the
convicts breathe an atmosphere vitiated by their own exhalations, whilst at night they are
suffocated by the fumes of resin. Their food is wholesome enough, consisting of mamaliga and
soup. For making the latter the prisoners receive, theoretically, meat at the rate of 100 grammes
(3-1/2 ounces) per head; but when we instituted a diligent search for some, bones only were
the result, and one of the gentlemen observed that the meat was consumed a mile off, meaning
at the quarters of certain officials, whilst the bones fell to the prisoners' share. However
this may be, one fact was admitted, namely, that by some process of conversion, known only
to the initiated, the convict rarely sees his share of his wages, and certainly receives no
more nourishment than is necessary to keep body and soul together. It is said that they spend
their earnings in luxuries, and probably some may do so; but that the officials are poorly
paid, and that it is difficult to find an honest one, these are statements we heard on authority
which it was impossible to discredit.

As we have said, however, the rules of the prison are framed with a view to the welfare of
the convicts, with the exception that nothing is done to educate them. But there are no harsh
punishments; if a man misbehaves himself, his chains are shortened, and very bad conduct is
punished with solitary confinement. The prisoners, we were told, are never whipped nor otherwise
ill-treated; and if it be true that men who are sent there for robbery are themselves often
the victims of plunder at the hands of officials, the minister who is at the head of the department
involved will no doubt take measures to prevent the continuance of such an iniquitous example.

And after all there is another phase of this question which must not be lost sight of when
we criticise the institutions of a young nation which has only just achieved its independence,
and whose first step was to abolish the vindictive capital sentence of 'a life for a life.'
The first law of nature is self-preservation, and Roumania is still obliged to economise in
all departments of the State in order to place her national police--her army--on a sound footing.
It is wonderful how she is able to conduct her department of justice even as she does. Her
convict labour is so well utilised that it leaves her a handsome profit. Her total expenditure
on all judicial and penal matters in 1880 was under 170,000l. with a population of 5,000,000,
whilst with only seven times that number of inhabitants the Government outlay of Great Britain
in the same year amounted to the enormous sum of 5,922,443l., without reckoning the heavy local
burdens for the protection of life and property. And yet both life and property are certainly
as secure in Roumania as in England, without the halter or the cat, two of the barbarous expedients
for the prevention of crime which are still employed in our boasted Western civilisation.

[Footnote 73: Obedenare names four, but we believe he has coupled two neighbouring mines together
as one.]

[Footnote 74: This does not, however, keep the water effectually out of the mine, for, from
whatever source, one portion of it was partially flooded whilst we were there. Some of the
prisoners had struck and refused to enter the shaft, and the chief inspector who had come from
Bucarest to enquire into the cause of the émeute said the men were justified in their refusal
to work, considering the condition of that part of the mine.]

[Footnote 75: We understand that the mine is to be lighted with the electric light this year.]

[Footnote 76: A touch of the ludicrous intervened to relieve the painful feelings we experienced
on this occasion. We were standing with the engineer of the mine watching the men hewing salt,
when the latter said (in German) 'Here are the worst criminals'--meaning in that mine. Not
quite understanding him, we got the undeserved credit of making a joke by asking,' Here, where
we stand?'--meaning in that part of the mine. The engineer burst into a laugh, which sounded
very hollow there, and then we noticed the double entendre, and mutual explanations ensued.]

PART II.

HISTORICAL.

      He heard it, but he heeded not; his eyes
      Were with his heart, and that was far away:
      He recked not of the life he lost nor prize,
      But where his rude hut by the Danube lay,
      There were his young barbarians all at play,
      There was their Dacian mother--be their sire,
      Butchered to make a Roman holiday.
      All this rushed with his blood. Shall he expire,
    And unavenged? Arise, ye Goths, and glut your ire!

    CHILDE HAROLD'S PILGRIMAGE, iv. 140.

                                  He was more
      Than a mere Alexander, and, unstained
      With household blood and wine, serenely wore
    His sovereign virtues--still we Trajan's name adore.

    CHILDE HAROLD'S PILGRIMAGE, iv. 111.

CHAPTER IX.

FROM THE GETÆ (ABOUT 335 B.C.) TO THE CLOSE OF THE ROMAN DOMINATION IN DACIA TRAJANA (ABOUT
A.D. 274).

     The Getæ; their supposed origin and history--The Dacians; their
     origin and migrations--Their incursions into the Roman
     provinces--Their King, 'Decebalus'--His contests with Cornelius
     Fuscus and Tertius Julianus--Legends regarding him--Domitian pays
     him tribute--Trajan--His first expedition against the Dacians--His
     supposed route--The engineering works of the Romans--Defeat and
     submission of Decebalus--Trajan's triumphal return to Rome--The
     bas-reliefs on Trajan's Column--Description of the first expedition
     therefrom--Decebalus breaks the treaty--Trajan's second
     expedition--Capture and suicide of Longinus--Defeats of the
     Dacians--Arrival of the Romans before Sarmizegethusa and its
     destruction by the Dacians--Suicide of Decebalus and his
     chiefs--Dacia a Roman province--Approximate boundaries--Carra's
     opinion of the colonists--Hadrian destroys Trajan's
     bridge--Duration and decline of the Roman power in Dacia--The Goths
     and Vandals defeat the Emperor Decius--They are beaten by Marcus
     Aurelius Claudius (called Gothicus)--Permanent withdrawal from
     Dacia by Aurelian--Conflicting opinions of historians regarding the
     evacuation--Gibbon's views probably correct--Character of the
     colonists who remained in Dacia.

I.

Although the earliest authentic records of Roumania or, more correctly speaking, of Dacia,
the Roman province which embraced Roumania, Transylvania, and some adjoining territories of
to-day, do not reach further back than about the century immediately preceding the Christian
era, a good deal of information is to be gathered from the writings of Herodotus, Dion Cassius,
and other early historians regarding the Getæ, the race from whom the Dacians sprang. The Getæ
were in all probability a branch of the Thracians, who were amongst the earliest immigrants
from the East; and for some time before they appeared in Dacia, which was situated on the northern
side of the Danube (or Ister, as it was called by the Romans), they had settled between the
south bank of that river and the Balkans (Mount Hæmus of the Romans). About the fourth century
B.C., however, the Getæ had crossed the river, either driven north by an inimical neighbouring
tribe, the Triballi, or in consequence of the growth of the nation itself. When they were first
encountered by the Greeks, they occupied the eastern part of Dacia, reaching probably to one
portion of the Black Sea; and some account of them is given by Ovid, who was exiled to their
vicinity, but little is known of them until they came in contact with the Roman armies. The
Getæ have little direct interest for us, but as we find associated with them the names of Philip
of Macedon, Alexander the Great, and Lysimachus, a few words concerning their connection with
those heroes may not be out of place, and will at least serve to fix a period in the history
of the people. Whilst they were still seated on the southern side of the Danube, they are said
to have been the allies of Philip in his expedition against the Scythians, and in his contest
with the Triballi; but Alexander the Great found them on the northern bank of the river when
he undertook the conquest of the Thracian tribes prior to his expedition into Persia. He is
said to have crossed the Danube at a place not clearly defined (B.C. 335), and to have defeated
about 10,000 foot and 4,000 horsemen. These took refuge with their families in a wooden town,
from which they were also dislodged, and fleeing to the steppes they escaped from the victorious
Greeks. Now it is that we find the name Getæ changed into that of Dacians,[77] and in the events
which followed during the reign of Lysimachus they are known by both designations. After the
death of Alexander the Great, Lysimachus inherited Thrace, and subsequently acquired Macedonia
and Asia Minor; but in order to secure the first-named territory he found it necessary to cope
with barbarian tribes, who formed a coalition against him. These he defeated; but inasmuch
as the Getæ or Dacians, under their king (hellenised) Dromichætes, had co-operated with the
barbarians, he undertook an expedition into their country north of the Danube shortly afterwards.
Penetrating to their barren plains, he sustained a defeat, and was captured along with his
whole army. According to certain Greek writers he was treated with great magnanimity by the
Dacian king; but all are agreed that the latter only liberated him for a ransom of some kind,
either in money or territory. Paget thinks he secured a large treasure, as many thousands of
gold coins have been found, some of them bearing the name of Lysimachus. 'I am in possession
of some of these coins,' he says, 'and though many were melted down by the Jews in Wallachia,
to whom they were conveyed across the frontier in loaves of bread, they are still [1850] very
common, and are frequently used by the Transylvanians for signet rings and other ornaments.'[78]

From the time of Lysimachus until about that of Augustus Cæsar we hear little or nothing of
the Getæ or Dacians, and we will therefore pass on to what may be called the Roman period.

[Footnote 77: Full accounts of the relations, or supposed relations, between the Thracians,
the Getæ, and the Dacians will be found in Smith, Geog. Dict., articles 'Dacia,' Geography;
'Thracia,' p. 325; 'Mœsia,' p. 677; and 'Dacia,' p. 679. In Dierauer (pp. 63-4 and note 1)
and Roesler (chap, i.) everything of interest from the Greek and Roman historians is fully
discussed, but the other German, French, and English writers treat the matter with more or
less brevity, in some instances dismissing it in a few words.]

[Footnote 78: Vol. ii. pp. 105-106. The whole question is involved in obscurity.]

II.

Some modern writers are of opinion that when the Romans first became acquainted with the country
north of the Danube, they found two allied or germane tribes, the Getæ in the eastern, and
the Dacians in the western part of the territory; but according to Dion Cassius the Romans
called all the inhabitants north of the Ister 'Dacians,' no matter whether they were Thracians,
Getæ, or Dacians, and the probability is that the Getæ had spread themselves gradually over
the plains westward, then acquired possession of the Carpathian mountains, and descended into
the plains of Transylvania.[79] Their fastnesses, called forts or cities, were built of wood,
and were situated in the mountains, and there it was that their fiercest contests with the
Roman arms took place previous to their complete subjugation.

The first we hear of them is that under a powerful chief Burvista or Boerebestes, they conquered
their neighbours, the Boii, Jasyges, and probably other tribes, at the eastern boundary of
their territory, driving them from their possessions, and from that time they appear as a distinct
nation constantly threatening the safety of the Roman provinces in their vicinity. Julius Cæsar,
it is said, proposed to attack them shortly before his death, as they made periodical inroads
into the Empire, more especially into Mœsia, the country lying between the Danube and the Balkan
mountains, of which the Romans had secured the possession. Every winter, as soon as the Danube
was frozen over or blocked with ice, they descended from their mountain fastnesses, crossed
the broad stream, and carried fire and sword into the Roman territory. Before the latter people
had time to gather their forces, their barbarous enemy had retreated, and, the river being
once more open, the Dacians endeavoured to prevent the landing of the Roman troops, or, failing
that, they made good their retreat to the mountains, whither the Romans feared to follow them.
Nor were the Dacians by any means despicable opponents. Although many of them fought bareheaded
and clothed in a light tunic, they were well acquainted with the use of armour, and possessed
standards, shields, helmets, breast-plates, and even chain and plate mail, fighting with bows
and arrows, spears, javelins, and a short curved sword somewhat resembling a sickle.[80]

They fought on horseback as well as on foot, and it is said that they sent showers of poisoned
arrows into the ranks of their enemies. Of their further proceedings in war as well as in peace
we shall have occasion to speak hereafter. About the year 10 B.C. the Emperor Augustus sent
one of his generals, Cn. Lentulus, to punish them for having entered and devastated Pannonia
under a chief Kotiso, but the expedition was ineffectual, and for a long series of years they
continued to harass the Empire, often threatening to overrun whole provinces. One such enterprise
is mentioned by Tacitus:--

     'Commotions about the same time broke out amongst the Dacians, a
     people never to be relied on, and since the legions were withdrawn
     from Mœsia there was no force to awe them. They, however, watched
     in silence the first movements of affairs. But when they heard that
     Italy was in a blaze of war, and that all the inhabitants were in
     arms against each other, they stormed the winter quarters of the
     cohorts and the cavalry, and made themselves masters of both banks
     of the Danube. They then prepared to raze the camp of the legions,
     when Mucianus sent the sixth legion to check them, having heard of
     the victory at Cremona, and lest a formidable foreign force should
     invade Italy on both sides, the Dacians and the Germans making
     irruptions in opposite quarters. On this, as on many other
     occasions, fortune favoured the Romans in bringing Mucianus and the
     forces of the East into that quarter, and also in that we had
     settled matters at Cremona in the very nick of time.'[81]

It was in the reign of the Emperor Domitian, however, that the inroads of the Dacians assumed
their most formidable proportions. About this time it is probable that the Dacians were divided
into several tribes, and that one leader more powerful than the rest had secured the chieftainship
of the whole nation. Thia chief is known to historians as 'Decebalus,' although there is great
difference of opinion as to whether that was his name or his title.[82] In the year 86 A.D.,
he gathered together a great host, and, crossing the Danube into Mœsia, defeated and killed
the prætor Oppius or Appius Sabinus, seizing several of the Roman fortresses and driving their
army to the foot of Mount Hæmus. As soon as the defeat and the position of the Roman forces
became known, Domitian collected an army in Illyria and placed it under the command of Cornelius
Fuscus, a general of more bravery than experience, who entered Mœsia, and, finding that Decebalus,
according to precedent, had retired across the Danube, followed him into his own country, only,
however, in his turn to be defeated and slain. Upon this the Romans again recrossed the river,
leaving behind them their baggage and many prisoners. Tacitus writes in great indignation concerning
these reverses:--

     'So many armies in Mœsia, Dacia, Germany, and Pannonia, lost
     through the temerity or cowardice of their generals; so many men of
     military character with numerous cohorts defeated and taken
     prisoners; whilst a dubious contest was maintained, not for the
     boundaries of the Empire and the banks of the bordering rivers, but
     for the winter quarters of the legions and the possession of our
     territories.'[83]

Whilst these events were occurring, Domitian is said to have been making progresses and indulging
in all kinds of excesses, but; fortunately for him and for the honour of the Roman arms, another
general succeeded in stemming the tide of invasion, and eventually (A.D. 89) in assuming the
offensive. This was Tertius Julianus, who had already distinguished himself in Mœsia under
Otho and Vespasian. Following Decebalus into his own dominions, he was not content to remain
in the plains, but pursued him into his mountain retreats, where he completely overthrew him
in a pitched battle and compelled him to sue for peace. It is in the accounts of this expedition
that mention is first made of regular roads in Dacia, and two passes, the Vulcan and Rothenthurm
(or Red Tower), are referred to. A place called Tapæ is also named, near to which Julianus
is said to have overthrown Decebalus, and where subsequently Trajan obtained a victory over
the same prince; but so much doubt attaches to the movements of Julianus that it will be better
for the present to defer any reference to those localities. The whole account of Julianus's
campaign in Dacia is mixed up with legendary tradition. It is said that he threatened the capital
of Dacia, Sarmizegethusa, and that he would have succeeded in capturing it and in reducing
the whole country but for a stratagem of Decebalus, who caused trees to be cut down to a man's
height in the woods through which the Romans had to pass, and clothed them in armour, which
so terrified the soldiers as to stay their progress. According to another account he cut the
trees through their trunks but allowed them to stand, and when the Romans attempted to force
their way through with their engines of war, the trees fell on them and killed them. Whether
it was the difficulty encountered by the Roman general in attempting to cope with his warlike
enemy in his mountains and forests, where the arts of war as practised by the former were not
so readily applicable as in the plains, or the more probable circumstance that Domitian had
been unsuccessful in an expedition against two other tribes, the Quadi and Marcomanni, and
needed the support of Julianus, certain it is that the overtures of Decebalus were at length
received favourably, and a peace was concluded with him in the year 90, which was less favourable
to the victors than to the conquered. Decebalus refused to treat in person with the Roman general,
but sent one of his chiefs (some historians say his brother), with whom the conditions were
arranged. According to Roman accounts Decebalus restored the Roman prisoners, acknowledged
the supremacy of Domitian, and accepted sovereignty at his hands. It subsequently transpired,
however, that this was not the whole treaty, and that Domitian agreed to pay the Dacian king
an annual tribute, and to send him a number of skilled artificers to teach him the art of constructing
works and fabricating arms upon the Roman model. Domitian then celebrated a triumph, which
was however made a subject of ridicule by those who were aware of the actual result of the
expedition.

We now approach a crisis in the history of Dacia. During the short reign of Nerva nothing was
undertaken against the country, and Decebalus continued to harass and annoy the Romans in Mœsia
until Trajan (who had been adopted by Nerva) ascended the throne (A.D. 98).

This emperor at once began preparations for putting an end to his humiliating relations with
Decebalus and his people, and although there have been many conjectures concerning his motives
and intentions, there can be little doubt that his object was eventually, if not immediately,
to incorporate Dacia with his empire. Already in the reign of some of his predecessors the
construction of a military road along the right or south bank of the Danube had been proceeding,
and the first operation of Trajan was to hasten the completion of this road for the passage
of his troops.[84] With this object he is said to have reconnoitred in 98 and 99, and the road
probably attained completion as far as the bank opposite Orsova, about A.D. 100, as the tablet
at Gradina, to which reference has already been made, indicates. It is impossible for us to
estimate the difficulties which must have attended this undertaking. Possessing as we do explosives
and rock-borers with which to break a passage through mountains and to blast rocky embankments,
we can hardly understand how a people, with such limited mechanical appliances as then existed,
can have surmounted the obstacles that presented themselves to their progress. In one place
the way was a plank road resting on beams, which were driven into the perpendicular face of
the solid rock a few feet above the water's edge, whilst a little further on it is seen to
wind along terraces cut artificially, high up on the hillsides. Hundreds if not thousands of
lives must have been sacrificed in the work, for it must be remembered that the Roman generals
and artificers had not only to combat natural difficulties, and to overcome the same obstacles
as those which our modern engineers have to face, but that they were harassed by the savage
but skilled enemy from the heights above, or from the opposite bank of the river, which here
and there narrows itself into defiles 150 or 200 yards wide.

As soon as the road was sufficiently advanced for the passage of his army, A.D. 101, Trajan
commenced his first expedition into Dacia. The constitution and number of his forces are not
accurately known.[85] They varied, according to different accounts, from 60,000 to 80,000 Romans,
with a considerable number of allies, Germans, Sarmatians, Mauritanian cavalry, &c., the last-named
under Lucius Quietus; and these Trajan is said to have assembled at a place somewhere south
of Viminacium, which subsequently served as the base of his operations.[86]

Pages upon pages have been devoted by ancient and modern historians to surmises concerning
the routes taken by Trajan in his expedition and the localities where his encounters with the
Dacians took place, but in every case the ascertained facts have been few in number. The best
history of the campaigns is delineated in the bas-reliefs on Trajan's Column[87] at Rome, and
many details have been collected from fragmentary writings of Dion Cassius and other old historians.

For the convenience of crossing the Danube the army was divided into two parts, and the river
was crossed by bridges of boats at two points, one near Viminacium and the other opposite Orsova.
The first section then skirted the western slopes of the Carpathians through the valley of
the Theiss, and so entered the Dacian highlands; the other marched up the valley of the Tierna
(Czerna), past the baths of Mehadia, which already existed in the Roman period, and the two
divisions of the army formed a junction at Karansebes,[88] or at Tibiscum close by, where two
Roman roads met; Trajan is known to have accompanied and led the eastern division until the
junction was completed. It is probable that in that year (101 A.D.) no serious encounter took
place between Trajan and Decebalus, who had been occupied for some time in preparing for his
defence, and had now received reinforcements from many of the neighbouring tribes. One of these
in the name of the allied tribes sent a threatening message to Trajan, written or scratched
upon a fungus, warning him to withdraw his troops, but he heeded neither this admonition nor
overtures of peace proceeding from Decebalus himself. His army went into winter quarters, and
early in 102 A.D. he commenced operations by forcing the Iron Gate pass in the Carpathians,[89]
and encountered the enemy, it is said, at the same place where Julianus had previously defeated
Decebalus, namely, Tapæ.[90] Here the Dacians again met with a sanguinary defeat, but the Romans
also sustained severe losses, and Trajan secured himself in the affections of his soldiers
by tearing up his garments to make bandages for the wounded.[91] After this reverse Decebalus
sought to reopen negotiations with Trajan, but on his refusal to receive the emissaries of
the emperor, who declined to meet him in person, hostilities were renewed, and the war was
prosecuted by the Dacians with great fierceness and barbarity. The discipline and warlike resources
of Rome, however, maintained the ascendency for her arms. Decebalus was pressed from stronghold
to stronghold, and defeated in one encounter after another, until at length his capital Sarmizegethusa
was threatened by his triumphant enemy. Then it was that he sued earnestly for peace, and accepted
the unfavourable conditions offered him by Trajan. He was compelled to give up all his war
material and artificers, to raze his fortresses, to deliver up all Roman prisoners and deserters,
to conclude a treaty defensive and offensive with Rome, and to appear before and do homage
to the emperor. Dacia thus became a vassal but autonomous province of the Empire, and, content
with his victory, Trajan returned to the capital, taking with him certain Dacian chiefs, who
repeated the act of homage in the senate. He then celebrated a triumph, and received the distinctive
title of 'Dacicus.'[92]

As we have already stated, the story of Trajan's expeditions into Dacia is recorded in the
bas-reliefs of the column bearing his name and still existing in Rome. These bas-reliefs have
been subject to various readings and interpretations, but we have so far avoided referring
to them under the impression that they can only be taken in a general sense to represent the
exploits of Trajan, and that any attempt to extract from them the names of localities is at
best a hazardous experiment. With these reservations, however, it is safe to say that they
vividly represent incidents of the campaign and bring us face to face with the warlike character
and customs of the contending nations. The progress of the expedition, as shown on the column,
is divided into sections, placed one above another, and separated by stems of trees which coil
round the column; in the first of these sections we see the passage of the army across the
Danube over two bridges of boats. The Roman soldiers are chiefly bareheaded, carrying their
shields and helmets, and many bearing standards with eagles, images of the gods, and other
devices. Some of the objects carried are supposed to be lanterns, from which it is inferred
that the passage took place at night. In advance are the trumpeters bearing long curved horns,
and the led horses of Trajan and his generals. The last-named have already crossed the river,
and Trajan is seated on a platform surrounded by his officers, haranguing his men. Next we
find ourselves in the enemy's country, although there are no signs as yet of the Dacians, and
the two succeeding sections of the column are occupied by the progress of the Roman arms. The
soldiers are felling timber, removing obstructions, and building forts and bridges, over all
of which operations Trajan is seen to preside in person. In the fourth division the Dacians
appear, suing for peace; the emissaries are clad in long robes, and Trajan meets them outside
a fort. Then follow further incidents in the campaign; encounters take place between the opposing
forces, in which the Dacians are defeated and their dead lie scattered on the ground. They
are then seen retreating with their women and children, devastating the country and slaying
their cattle which are heaped up in piles. Trajan is again present, sparing the old men, women,
and children, and making prisoners. Now the Dacians are the attacking party, and the Romans
defend themselves behind forts; and then again the army is in motion with Trajan at its head,
crossing rivers, and erecting fortifications. In the next section the Dacians have made a stand,
and the scene represents a pitched battle in which they are again defeated with great slaughter.
All the incidents of the fight are vividly depicted: Romans fighting from their chariots, Dacians
and their allies mounted and on foot, prisoners brought in, and a man, apparently a spy, bound
before Trajan himself. Then follows a further advance, which occupies some of the succeeding
scenes of the panorama. Here the Romans fall into an ambuscade, from which they extricate themselves;
there they pass a post of danger, apparently a wooden stronghold of the Dacians, under cover
of a wall of shields held aloft by the soldiers; and at length they arrive before a fortified
town, where Trajan is again seen seated upon a platform, surrounded by his generals, whilst
the Dacians, one of whom is supposed to be Decebalus himself, kneel round about, suing for
peace. In this scene the attire, emblems, and accoutrements of the two contending nations are
presented in marked contrast. The Roman standards and eagles have already been mentioned; those
of the Dacians generally represent serpentine monsters at the end of a long pole.[93] Whilst
the Romans carry their tall, curved, oblong shield, the oval ones of the Dacians ornamented
with floral devices lie heaped in confusion. Most of the Dacians are bareheaded, but some,
supposed to be chiefs, wear a head-dress resembling a cap of liberty. Another section completes
the panorama of the first expedition, representing the embarkation and landing of Trajan; the
sacrifices, triumph, and rejoicings in the capital.

But Decebalus had no more intention of abiding by the terms of his treaty with the Roman emperor
than had Trajan with that of his predecessor. The Dacian king had no sooner seen his enemy's
back than he repaired his fortresses, armed his people afresh, sought new alliances with his
neighbours, and commenced depredations upon the territories of Rome and her allies. Then it
was that Trajan prepared to chastise the barbarians, and this time he determined to crush the
Dacian power completely, and to annex the conquered country as a Roman province. Although he
is said to have been in Mœsia in A.D. 104, the actual movements against Dacia only commenced
the following year, and in this as in the preceding expedition the routes pursued by the Roman
army have not been clearly defined. The bridge across the Danube from Gladowa to Turnu-Severin
was most likely completed, and part, if not the whole, of Trajan's army crossed there. Those
writers who believe that in the first expedition a portion of the forces entered from Pannonia,
say that, knowing the geography of the country better, Trajan now sent a division up the valley
of the Theiss, crossing the Danube at Viminacium; whilst there is little doubt that a portion
of the army continued the march eastward along the Mœsian bank of the Danube, crossed at a
station opposite the mouth of the Alutus (now Oltu), landed near the modern Celeiu, and, crossing
the plain, entered the mountain fastnesses through the Rothenthurm pass.[94]

By whatever routes Trajan's army invaded the dominions of the doomed king, it is known that
his advance was prompt and successful, and that this time the fame of the Roman arms prevented
Decebalus from securing many allies. He once more sued for peace; but Trajan's terms being
a virtual relinquishment of his independence, he prepared himself for a supreme and desperate
effort for the defence of his kingdom. At first it is said that he attempted to remove Trajan
by assassination, but that his emissaries were detected and put to death. Another expedient
seems to have been temporarily successful. He managed to decoy into his power Longinus, a Roman
general, said to have been a great favourite of Trajan, and, holding him as a hostage, Decebalus
demanded extravagant terms of peace. To this proposal Trajan gave an evasive reply, in order,
if possible, to save the life of his officer. The last-named, however, with true Roman patriotism,
had a message conveyed to Trajan by his freedman, advising him to proceed with his operations,
and at the same time he himself took a dose of poison in order to relieve his master from further
perplexity on his account. Decebalus then offered to give up the body of the Roman general
and certain other captives in return for the escaped freedman, but Trajan returned no answer
to his proposal. Very little is known of the incidents of this campaign, excepting that Trajan
forced the passes of the Carpathians, and, taking one defended post after another, drove the
enemy into the vicinity of his capital; that the tribes who had allied themselves with the
Dacians, amongst whom the Sarmatians, Jasyges, and Burri are named, deserted them one by one,
and that the Romans at length laid siege to Sarmizegethusa, where Decebalus had taken refuge.
After a brave but ineffectual defence the king, rather than yield himself a prisoner, committed
suicide with his sword; whilst his followers, after setting fire to the town, imitated the
example of their leader by taking poison. The head of Decebalus was cut off and sent to Rome
by Trajan, who discovered and divided amongst his soldiers vast spoils and treasures which
the Dacians had endeavoured to conceal, and then returned to Rome, where (A.D. 106) a triumph
was celebrated on even a grander scale than after the conclusion of his first expedition.[95]

Before drawing to a close this hasty survey of the rise and fall of the Dacian monarchy, let
us turn again for a moment to the bas-reliefs upon Trajan's Column, the indelible and, after
all, the most trustworthy record of his second expedition.[96] Passing hastily over the first
scenes, which comprise tho landing of his troops, the assault and capture of a fortified place,
the defeat of the Dacians, and what appears to be a refusal on the part of Trajan to grant
them peace, we have a very faithful and circumstantial picture of a halt, where the emperor
is present at the offering of a bull as sacrifice. Then there is a continuance of the march
inland, followed by fierce contests between the two armies. At length the Romans arrive before
a walled city (probably Sarmizegethusa) where all the incidents of a siege, including personal
adventures, are portrayed. A Roman soldier, standing at the top of a scaling ladder, has struck
off the head of one of the Dacians on the wall, whilst the latter are seen hurling stones and
other missiles at those engaged in the assault. Then comes another application for peace, a
Dacian prince kneeling at the feet of Trajan; whilst in the same section, separated only by
a couple of thin trees, we have the scene of the Dacians setting fire to their city, and in
close contiguity is their dying leader. The remaining scenes depict the Roman soldiers dividing
the spoil. Trajan is addressing them, distributing rewards, and bidding them adieu. Then follow
secondary incidents; the building of fortresses by the Romans; one or two more contests in
which Trajan's generals defeat the Dacians, driving them into the mountains, whither they are
seen fleeing with their flocks, women, and children. One of the last scenes represents the
second triumph of Trajan, with soldiers who arrive bearing the head of Decebalus. Some of the
minor incidents in the panorama are intended to exhibit the barbarity of the Dacians, one being
the exhibition of a row of heads stuck upon spears on the walls of a town or fortress; another
the burning and torturing of naked Roman prisoners by Dacian women. Altogether these bas-reliefs,
which are said to be the work of several artists, present anything but an edifying spectacle
of the ancient mode of warfare.

[Footnote 79: Dion Cassius (Cocceianus), the Roman historian, was born 155 A.D. at Nicæa in
Bithynia, where he also probably died in retirement after a long and eventful political life;
the date of his death is unknown. He was governor of Pannonia under Severus, and had opportunities
of learning about Trajan's expeditions into Dacia. He wrote a history of Rome, including one
of Trajan, but of the latter there is only an abridgment by Xiphilinus made in the eleventh
century; our extracts are from the French version referred to in the Appendix.]

[Footnote 80: See initial letter, and vignette at the end of this chapter.]

[Footnote 81: Bohn's Tacitus, vol. ii. p. 164. This occurred 70 A.D. under Vespasian. Mœsia
had been formally constituted a Roman province 9 A.D. (or 2 B.C., Merivale).]

[Footnote 82: According to Merivale, vol. vii. p. 103 note (Longmans, 1862), it was a title:
'interpreted by some writers "The Strength of the Dacians," by others "Dakhi-Valhus," the Scythian
for the Day Falcon.' Smith (Biography, article 'Decebalus') says it was probably a title of
honour amongst the Dacians equivalent to chief or king, since we find that it was borne by
more than one of their rulers, and that the individual best known to history as the Decebalus
of Dion Cassius is named Diurpanus by Orosius, and Dorphaneus by Jornandes. Roesler and Dierauer
expend a large amount of research and learning upon the name. The former (p. 35) believes that
'the Dierpaneus of Jordanes' is a king Duras from whom Decebalus received his crown, and he
leaves the question an open one. Dierauer says (p. 67) that Decebalus was his name, and quotes
an inscription in which he is spoken of as 'Regem Decebalum.']

[Footnote 83: Bohn's Agricola, p. 382.]

[Footnote 84: See historical map.]

[Footnote 85: The fullest account of the probable number and constitution of his army, his
generals, &c., is to be found in Dierauer, pp. 76 et seq. and the numerous notes appended.]

[Footnote 86: See map.]

[Footnote 87: Erected after the final subjugation of Dacia, probably upon the designs of Apollodorus,
who also designed the bridge across the Danube.]

[Footnote 88: This is by no means the unanimous view as to the course which was taken by the
army, although most are agreed that it was divided into two sections.]

[Footnote 89: This must not be confounded with the Iron Gates (sunken rocks) in the Danube.
The reader will find all the leading places referred to in our historical map.]

[Footnote 90: Nothing certain is known as to the position of Tapæ. By some writers it is said
to be identical with Crossfeldt near Thorda; but this hardly agrees with the account of the
operations against Decebalus after his first defeat.]

[Footnote 91: Dion Cassius, lxviii. 8.]

[Footnote 92: Dion Cassius, lxviii. 9.]

[Footnote 93: See vignette at the end of this chapter.]

[Footnote 94: All these places, along with the lines indicating existing remains of Roman roads,
will be found on our map.]

[Footnote 95: Full details of games, gladiatorial fights, coins struck, &c., in Dierauer, pp.
105 et seq.]

[Footnote 96: Those of our readers who desire to follow these superficial outlines of the story,
as represented on the column, will do well to inspect the beautiful line engravings of Piranese,
without however accepting his interpretations as conclusive.]

III.

Whatever uncertainty attaches to the details of Trajan's expeditions, there is none as to their
ultimate result, nor concerning the chief operations of the conqueror and his successors in
the newly-acquired territory, which was formally annexed as a province of the Empire. Some
historians have attempted to define with great minuteness the boundaries of the new province,
but more cautious writers content themselves with naming approximate limits; and these have
done wisely, as there is no doubt that the movements of the neighbouring tribes and even of
the conquered Dacians (for it is a mistake to suppose, as some do, that they went out of existence)
prevented any strict line of demarcation. The nominal boundaries of Roman Dacia were the river
Theiss on the west, the Pruth on the east, 'barbarians' on the north, and the river Danube
on the south. The country actually colonised embraced the Banate of Temesvar, Transylvania
(Siebenbürgen), and Roumania as they exist to-day. There were several centres of colonisation,
of which the chief was Ulpia Trajana, including the old capital of Decebalus, Sarmizegethusa
(now Varhely), and other important centres were Apulum and Cerna or Tierna.[97]

Trajan and his successors built fortifications, walls, and towns; and, attracted partly by
the fertility of the plains and partly by the gold mines of the Carpathians, the Roman colonies
soon swelled in numbers and importance.[98] Different opinions have been expressed concerning
the character of these colonists. One modern writer, Carra, who is considered an authority
in Roumanian history, says that the Romans regarded Dacia as the French, Cayenne, and sent
thither a colony consisting of the scum of the principal towns of Greece and the Roman Empire.
Their descendants, he adds, who inherited their vices and cowardice, were turn by turn conquered
and enslaved by the Sarmatians, Huns, and Tartars.[99] This is a statement which rather affects
the feelings of modern Roumanians than the current of historical events, and it brings us face
to face with an enquiry which we shall have to handle with great circumspection, namely, the
descent of the modern Roumanians from the old Daco-Roman colonists, lest we find ourselves
involved in a controversy that would fill volumes. So far as the records of Roman history enable
us to judge, Carra has done great injustice to the colonists of Dacia. It is true that the
Romans banished some of their malefactors, and especially political offenders, to their colonies,
as Ovid was expatriated; and that Trajan colonised Dacia from various parts of the Empire;
but the custom of the Roman generals, which Trajan would doubtless have followed, was to divide
the most fertile districts amongst their veteran soldiers,[100] and therefore, if the charges
of cowardice and debauchery made by Carra were true, they would apply to the bravest in the
legions who had conquered the almost indomitable Decebalus. But Carra lived and wrote at a
time (A.D. 1777) when cool judgment could hardly be expected in a writer on Roumania, and if
he were alive to-day he would be surprised to hear that there is a school of modern historians
who, using his very authorities, deny that the descendants of the Daco-Roman colonists were
ever to be found on Dacian ground during the incursions of the eastern barbarians. But of that
more hereafter.[101]

The history of the Roman occupation of Dacia, which lasted from the time of Trajan until it
was evacuated by Aurelian,[102] affords little to interest the reader. Dacia was, so to speak,
the outwork of the Empire which served to hold the barbarians at bay during its 'decline and
fall;' and the country was more prosperous than during the period of its independence, when
the tribes were constantly at war with one another and there was no settled government. That
the attitude of the barbarians was threatening even a few years after the death of Trajan is,
however, more than probable, for his immediate successor, Hadrian, contemplated withdrawing
his legions, and destroyed the bridge across the Danube, 118 or 120 A.D. Some writers, indeed,
attribute this act to his jealousy of Trajan, others to his hatred of Apollodorus, the architect;
but most probably the cause assigned by Dion Cassius, that it was to prevent its being used
by the barbarians for making inroads into Mœsia, was the true one.[103] During the reigns of
Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius for about half a century, the barbarians were kept in check,
although even during that period they had managed to encroach upon the Roman territory.

At the beginning of the third century, however, the Roman hold on Dacia began to be very precarious,
and we approach the time when the dark veil of the so-called barbarian ages is drawn over the
history of Europe. That the Roman emperors had to contend, with very varying fortunes, with
barbarous tribes is certain, and that their arms were still frequently successful is proved
by the erection of fortresses and towns, named after their emperors, on the borders of their
possessions. For example, Caracalla defeated certain barbarous hordes about A.D. 212, and assumed
the name of 'Geticus,' but whether the conquered tribes were Dacians or Goths is uncertain.

A few years later the Quadi and Marcomanni made inroads into Western Dacia, but they were held
in check by the proconsul Varus, who built a tower or fort in close proximity to Trajan's bridge,
of which the ruins are still visible to travellers on the Danube, and which has given its name
to the modern town of Turnu-Severin. But the Goths, a people of Scandinavian origin, had been
for some time previously drawing nearer to the borders of the Roman Empire. Between the beginning
of our era and the end of the second century they had spread themselves, associated with the
Vandals, in the direction of the Carpathians and the Ukraine, and in the reign of the Emperor
Philip (243-249) they made irruptions into Mœsia. In that of Decius they invaded the Roman
territory a second time under a chief, Cniva, and, after defeating the Romans and compelling
the emperor to flee, they took and sacked Philippopolis. Shortly afterwards Decius met them
again, but he was again defeated and slain. The barbarians then retired with their plunder.

The next event of importance was the defeat of the Goths (about 268 or 269[104]) by Marcus
Aurelius Claudius. They had once more entered Roman territory, had overrun Mœsia and Illyria,
and were approaching the capital; it was therefore found necessary to raise a powerful army
and drive them over the frontier. This time they were defeated with great slaughter at Naissos
in the Balkans and elsewhere, and were then driven across the Danube. Marcus Aurelius, who
took the name of 'Gothicus,' describes the fate of the enemy in these terms: 'We have annihilated
320,000 Goths, and have sunk two thousand of their ships. Everywhere rivers are covered with
their shields, all the banks with their swords and spears, whilst the fields are sown with
their bones. The roads are indistinguishable; much baggage is taken. We have captured so many
women that every soldier is able to possess two or three of them.'[105] And yet, notwithstanding
this decisive victory of Marcus Aurelius, his successor Aurelian found himself very shortly
afterwards in deadly conflict with these same Goths, and his contests were so doubtful in their
results that he was glad to make a treaty of peace with them and leave them in undisturbed
possession of Trajan's Dacia. That he decided to withdraw the Roman legions (about 270 or 275
A.D.) from Dacian territory, that he offered protection to all colonists who were prepared
to follow them across the Danube, and that a new colony, called Dacia Aureliani, was founded
along the south bank of the Danube: these are uncontradicted facts. But when we come to enquire
into the details of the withdrawal and the composition of the remaining population, we find
such a conflict of authorities that it is impossible to come to a definite conclusion. Aurelian
treated with the barbarians after a battle had been fought which was by no means adverse to
the Roman arms, and he stipulated with the Goths that they should contribute an auxiliary force
of 2,000 men to the Roman army. He moreover secured a large number of hostages, being the sons
and daughters of Gothic chiefs, whom he sent to Rome to be educated. The great historian, whose
views can only be rejected on what we may call a political or partisan theory, believed the
Roman colonists to have been industrious agriculturists; for when he speaks, in another place,
of the temptations which led the wandering Goths in the first instance to cast longing eyes
upon Dacia, he says: 'But the prospects of the Roman territory were far more alluring, and
the fields of Dacia were covered with a rich harvest, sown by the hands of an industrious,
and exposed to be gathered by a warlike people.'[108]

In bringing the history of the Roman occupation of Dacia to a close, we have therefore to acknowledge
that, far from being inhabited by the scum of the earth as Carra supposed, the country was
at first in the hands of an industrious, though probably a sparse peasantry, and, as Gibbon
has said, 'only those who had nothing to lose accompanied the Roman army,' leaving the remainder,
a large body of industrious Daco-Roman agriculturists, ruled over by a tribe of warlike barbarians.
What these and their posterity suffered, will be seen from the narrative in our next chapter.

[Footnote 97: According to certain writers, Transylvania was Dacia mediterranca; the Banate,
D. ripensis; and Roumania, D. transalpina; but Smith (Geography, 'Dacia') gives those names
to divisions of Mœsia after the withdrawal of the Romans from Dacia; and later historians mate
no reference to the divisions. Dicrauer (p. 103) only refers to one or two leading colonies,
and Roesler (p. 45) says that Trajan did not subdivide his conquest at all, but that under
Antoninus Pius (168 A.D.) there existed three non-political divisions: D. Apulensis, D. Porolissensis,
and D. malvensis. Gibbon (chap. i. pp. 7 and 8) gives what he calls 'the natural boundaries,'
and says the province was about 1,300 miles in circumference.]

[Footnote 98: Neigebaur (p. 43) gives a list of twenty-eight towns known (and many doubtful
ones) in Trajan's Dacia, built during the Roman occupation. Of these the ruins of some still
remain, and on the site of others modern towns have been built, whose names vary but little
from the Roman appellations, e.g. Zernes, now Cernetz; Caracalla, Karakal; Castra Severum,
Turnu Severunul (where there is an old Roman tower); Ardeiscus, Ardeish or Ardges; Pallada,
Berlad; Kallatia, Galatz; Thermæ ad Mediaș, Mehadia.]

[Footnote 99: Carra, p. 3.]

[Footnote 100: As in the case of Britain; see Smith, Geography, article 'Colonia.']

[Footnote 101: Carra takes his account from Eutropius, who says (Book VIII. cap. 6): 'Trajan,
when he conquered Dacia, transferred thither from all parts of the Roman Empire considerable
numbers of men to till the fields and live in the towns. For by its long war under Decebalus
Dacia had been exhausted of its men.' he says nothing of the 'scum of the towns.' But in Book
IX. cap. 15, Eutropius, in speaking of the Roman withdrawal from Dacia under Aurelian, says:
'He took the Romans away from the cities and fields of Dacia, and planted them in the middle
of Mœsia.']

[Footnote 102: Smith (Dacia) says it was evacuated between 270 and 275 A.D. Neigebaur and other
German as well as French writers name years between these two, the edict of Aurelian being
dated, it is said, 274 A.D.; whilst Roesler (pp. 60-51) believes that the actual withdrawal
of the Roman army did not take place until 280 A.D.]

[Footnote 103: lxviii. 13. He says (after describing the bridge in glowing terms): 'Trajan,
fearing lest, when the Ister was frozen, the Romans on the farther bank should be attacked,
built it in order to afford an easy passage for the troops; Adrian, on the other hand, apprehensive
that the barbarians, after having overcome those who guarded it, would find it an easy means
of penetrating into Mœsia, demolished the upper portion of it.']

[Footnote 104: Freeman (General Sketch of European History) says 269-270 A.D.]

[Footnote 105: Trebellius Pollio. Gibbon sets down the number of Goths slain at 50,000.]

[Footnote 106: Vol. ii. p. 17.

     The 'Barbarians'--Brief mention of them by Roumanian
     historians--The Goths--Their settlement in Dacia--Defeat by
     Theodosius and disappearance--The Huns--Their ferocity--Attila--His
     successes--Deserted and overthrown by the Gepidæ--His death, and
     expulsion of the Huns--The Sarmatians--The Gepidæ ally themselves
     with the Byzantines--Defeated by the Lombards under Alboin--The
     Avari--Settle in Dacia--Are defeated and dispersed by Priscus and
     Heraclius--The Bulgari--Their origin and that of the
     Slavonians--Their cruelty--Warlike habits--Severe punishment of
     criminals--Superstitions--Their 'Chagan,' or chief
     rider--Conversion to Christianity--Their chieftains--Improved
     habits--Curious superstitions--Career of the Bulgari--Invasion of
     the Eastern Empire and defeat by Belisarius--Supreme in Dacia,
     Mœsia, and Servia--Vicissitudes--Story of Krumus--Daco-Roman
     princes--The Bulgarian territories annexed by Basilius to the Greek
     Empire--The Ungri, or Hungarians--Their supposed origin--Their
     cruelty and ferocity--Hallam's description of them--German account
     of their savage mode of warfare--Ravage Europe--Settle in Hungary
     and found a kingdom--Are driven over the Carpathians by the
     Bulgari--(Note: Story of their contests with the chiefs Gellius,
     Gladius, Mariotus, &c,--The anonymous notary of King Bela)--The
     Patzinakitai--Scanty records concerning them--The
     Wallachs--Controversy regarding their origin--Daco-Roman
     descendants--Mediæval accounts of their origin and character--Anna
     Comnena--Bonfinius--Æneas Sylvius--M. Opitz--Their career in the
     Danubian territories--Revolt in alliance with the
     Bulgari--Foundation of the Wallacho-Bulgarian Empire by Peter,
     Asan, and John--The historical soufflet--Recognition of the new
     empire--Its duration--The Kumani--Their domination--The Teutonic
     Knights and Knights of St. John--Interesting correspondence between
     King Joannitz and Pope Innocent III.--Temporary conversion of the
     Bulgarians to Rome--Downfall of the Wallacho-Bulgarian
     Empire--Irruptions and retirement of the Tartars--End of the
     barbarian age.

I.

If the reader will imagine a country somewhat larger than the United Kingdom situated in a
part of the European continent which renders it accessible from almost every side, and can
conceive of eight or nine great hordes of armed savages tens or hundreds of thousands strong,
with many smaller ones, pouring intermittently, and even simultaneously in some instances,
into that devoted territory, and there alternately burning and plundering or making slaves
of each other or of the original settlers, during a continuous period of more than a thousand
years, then he will have formed some idea of poor Roumania (or perhaps it would be more correct
to say of the territories north and south of the lower Danube) as it existed between the end
of the third and of the thirteenth centuries.

It is not surprising that some of the historians of Roumania, who have managed to fill volumes,
should have slurred over what really constitutes half the period of her national existence
in a few pages, nay even in some instances in a few lines; and that they should have substituted
what one writer has called 'brilliant declamatory evolutions' for the conclusions of careful
research. For the last method sometimes leads to the discovery of discrepancies between standard
authors of fifty or a hundred years in the chronicle of events. For us the history of the so-called
dark ages in that part of Europe is full of interest, inasmuch as the Danubian plains constituted
the highway over which the barbarians wandered who were the ancestors of a large proportion
of the existing population of Europe; and we have sought, in the table appended to this work,
to bring some kind of order out of the chaos of events narrated by historians.[109] Beyond
this, it is true, we cannot do much to serve the student of history, and it is a matter of
regret that the character of this work necessitates our treating the subject with such inconvenient
brevity; but we must appeal to the patience and good nature of our readers whilst we seek to
give as much interest as possible to a necessarily dry and tedious narrative.

For about a century after the withdrawal of the Roman legions, the Goths, a people of whose
origin and exploits we have already spoken, ruled in Trajan's Dacia, except during a brief
interval (327 A.D.) when Constantine, having built a bridge across the Danube at or near Nicopolis
on the southern, and Turnu-Magurele on the northern bank, overran the country and once more
incorporated it with the Empire. This occupation was, however, of short duration. Finding that
he could not maintain his supremacy north of the Danube, and that the Goths were even settling
on the right bank, Constantine is said to have established Roman colonies south of the Balkans,
and, according to some historians, it was from those settlers that the country has derived
its present name of Roumelia. That the Goths must have founded permanent settlements in various
parts of Dacia is obvious from the traces they have loft behind them, notably in the neighbourhood
of Buseu.[110] Moreover, in the middle of the century (361 A.D.) they are said to have embraced
Christianity, although we hear shortly afterwards (370 A.D.) that their king Athanaric subjected
the Christians to the most cruel persecutions. At that time they were probably on more neighbourly
terms with the Romans, for when a new enemy, the Huns, appeared in the east and threatened
them with annihilation, many of them were allowed by the Emperor Valens to cross the Danube
and settle peaceably on the right or southern bank. Shortly afterwards, however, we find them
first defeating and slaying Valens and then fighting in alliance with the Huns (378) against
the Emperor Theodosius, who attacked them in Dacia. This is the last we hear of the Goths as
such, but a branch, the Gepidæ, afterwards rose again and for a considerable period dominated
in Dacia.

[Footnote 109: See Appendix I.]

[Footnote 110: The reader will find most of the chief places named in the course of this historical
sketch indicated on the historical map, but we have purposely refrained from making repeated
references to it, and even, in many cases, to authorities on history, where that would interfere
unnecessarily with the continuity of the narrative.]

II.

The Huns who drove out the Goths and followed them in the occupation of the country, are supposed
by some to be of Scythian, by others even of Chinese origin, and Gibbon has very graphically
described their first appearance and movements.

But the rule of the Huns was not uninterrupted. Shortly after they obtained possession of the
Gothic kingdom in Dacia they were defeated by the Emperor Theodosius I. (about 378), but from
that time until the reign of their King Attila ('the scourge of God') nothing of importance
is noted in their history. This monarch not only brought the whole of Dacia under the yoke,
but (about 443) he conquered Mœsia, and pressed the Romans so hard that Theodosius II. (408-450),
as well as the Eastern Emperor, were glad to make peace with him, by which he retained the
greater part of his conquests north of the Danube. It is impossible, nor would it be legitimate
here, to follow Attila through his victorious career. All we need to mention is that when the
tide was turning against him, the vassal tribes, whom he had dragged through Europe as allies,
deserted him, and the Gepidæ, a branch of the great Gothic nation, helped to hasten his downfall;
for, revolting under their chief Ardaric, they not only defeated his army, but became masters
of the whole of Dacia. At the conclusion of the reign of Attila, who died or was murdered about
A.D. 453, the Huns were driven back into Asia, whence they once more invaded Europe a few years
later; but, although we hear of them casually, in union with other tribes, more than a century
afterwards (about 564), they never recovered their power in Dacia, and are of no further interest
to us in this connection.

[Footnote 111: Vol. iv. pp. 258-262.]

III.

The reader will remember that even in the wars between the Romans and Dacians other barbarian
tribes took part. Of these the Quadi, Marcomanni, and Sarmatians continued to harass the successors
of the first-named, and even to make irruptions into the Empire. The Sarmatians especially
were very formidable, and from time to time they settled in Dacia during the occupation of
the Goths, giving both them and the Romans much trouble. They were encountered by more than
one Roman army, and were driven back into and through Dacian territory; but at length, about
A.D. 375, Valentinian defeated them with great slaughter, and we cease to hear of them in connection
with Roumanian history.

With the Gepidæ, that branch of the Goths who defeated Attila, it was otherwise. After the
withdrawal of the Huns[112] they took possession of Northern Dacia, and managed to obtain such
a firm hold on the country, that it was actually known to some of the older historians as 'Gepidia.'
There is, however, nothing of interest in their history. Sometimes they were at war with their
more powerful southern neighbours; anon they formed alliances with them on advantageous terms,
and aided them to keep other tribes in check. The Roman Empire was now split into its Eastern
and Western divisions, and it was with the Byzantines that the Gepidæ made their treaties.
These, however, were capable of rendering them little effectual service at periods of grave
danger, and when (about 550 A.D.) the Lombards, a warlike tribe who are believed to have migrated
southwards from the shores of the Baltic, in combination with an Asiatic horde, the Avari,
made inroads into their territory, the Gepidæ were quite incapable of making head against them.
We have said that the latter nation contracted treaties, offensive and defensive, with the
Eastern Empire, but it must not be supposed that either the emperors or the barbarians were
very constant in their attachments. At one time we find some particular tribe in alliance with
the emperors of the East, assisting them to keep back new assailants; at another they entered
the armies of the Eastern emperors, to help them in their attacks upon their Western rivals;
then, again, it is two tribes associated to root out and exterminate a horde in possession;
and shortly afterwards it may be that the tribes who were allied are arrayed against each other.
About the time named, the Lombards and Avari, as we have said, made inroads into the territories
of the Gepidæ, the first-named being under the lead of a brave and fierce leader, Alboin, and
in a very short period (between 550 and 567 A.D.) they managed not only to defeat the Gepidæ,
but so completely to break their power, that some writers speak of them as being annihilated.
Then it was that the Emperor Justinian (527-565), fearing them as opponents, and desiring them
as allies, tempted the Lombards to enter his service; and, bent upon conquest rather than upon
becoming settlers in the land which they had already acquired, these crossed over the Danube
and left their associates, the Avari, in undisturbed possession. The Avari ruled intermittently
in Dacia from about A.D. 564 to 610-640, when, venturing to cope with the Byzantine power,
they were first encountered and defeated by Priscus, a Greek general, and later on by the Emperor
Heraclius (610-641), and from that time their nation was gradually dispersed.

[Footnote 112: Between 453 and 469 A.D. according to different writers.]

IV.

But now we arrive at a period when there was some little interval in the successive inroads
of barbarians, and a breathing time for the peaceably disposed inhabitants of Dacia; for the
next race of wanderers who entered upon the fertile plains of the Danube succeeded in holding
their ground almost as undisputed masters for three centuries. Later on, as we shall find,
they founded a second dynasty in combination with the Wallachs; and, although their rule was
troubled by the incursions of other barbarians, and by wars first with the Byzantines and afterwards
with the Hungarians or Magyars, yet they managed with some intermission to remain the governing
power, and their descendants have ruled in various localities even down to the present day.

But what makes the history of this tribe, the Bulgari, so interesting, is not so much the domination
which they exercised in the Danubian provinces, as the insight which it gives us into the condition
of the people during the dark ages; and although we must content ourselves with a brief sketch
of their career and a few incidents selected from it, we can confidently recommend our readers
to prosecute the enquiry for themselves, with the certainty of being repaid for their labour
and research. The origin of the Bulgari, or Bulgarians, like that of most of the so-called
barbarians, is more or less clouded in mystery. They were bold and dexterous archers, who drank
the milk and feasted on the flesh of their indefatigable horses.[115] Their flocks followed,
or rather guided, their movements, as it was in search of pasture for these that they roamed
about from place to place. They were practised in flight and incapable of fear. Roesler is
of opinion that they were an offshoot of the Huns, and in the earlier period of their career,
he says, they adopted the costume of all the Ural races, and notably of the Avari. The hair
of the head was shorn off with the exception of a tuft. Their war-standards were horses' tails;
before a battle there was a muster, at which arms and horses were inspected, and if any defects
were discovered, the warrior who was guilty was at once put to death. The day and hour of combat
were fixed by soothsayers, propitious signs were sought, and war-ditties chanted. It was a
custom to make a drinking-vessel of the skull of some famous chieftain amongst the enemy when
he was killed in battle. (We shall have a notable example of this presently.) Any freeman or
slave who strayed beyond the boundaries of the territory was killed by the border-guard if
he was detected. Dogs and even human beings were offered as sacrifices. Their sentences for
the expiation of crime were as barbarous as the people themselves. Noses and ears were cut
off as the most ordinary punishment. Polygamy was practised, and eunuchs protected the harem.
The ruler, who was called the 'Chagan,' had power of life and death over his subjects. He alone
sat at table during his meals; his 'court,' including even his spouse, squatted around and
fed upon the floor. In the seventh century their religion was a mixture of heathenism and Mohammedanism,
and they were only converted to Christianity by slow degrees after they had settled on the
Danube and come into close contact with the Eastern Empire.[116] Even then we find (about the
middle of the ninth century) that although the kings embraced Christianity, the great mass
of the people remained unconverted, and even resented the change of religion in their rulers.

There is much more that is interesting in the customs of the Bulgarians, especially when they
had come under something like a settled government. The nobles seem to have resembled our 'ealdormen'
in the very earliest phase of our history, and to have exercised considerable influence, notwithstanding
the absolutism of the ruling head. From living only in tents of skins, a practice still adhered
to in the warmer months, they built wooden huts in winter. They clothed themselves in long
robes, and wore caps which were doffed reverentially in the presence of their rulers. They
fed on millet and on horseflesh, and drank mead and a liquor extracted from the birch tree.
Their punishments continued to be most barbarous, quartering alive being a common practice.
Their superstitions were interesting. Serpents were 'taboo,' so was a hut which had been struck
by lightning, whilst the howlings of dogs and wolves were good omens, significant of success
or plenty.

We first hear of the Bulgari towards the close of the fifth century when they were situated
near the mouth of the Volga, from whence they moved into Dacia. Meeting with little opposition
and joined by other tribes, they soon became formidable invaders of the Eastern Empire, and
are said to have carried their arms time after time through Thrace, Epirus, Thessaly, as far
as Peloponnesus in Europe, and into Asia Minor, until at length they were met by Belisarius,
one of the generals of Justinian, probably about 538-540 A.D., who defeated and drove them
back over the Danube. Meantime they had come under the yoke of the Avari, and it was not until
the middle of the seventh century (about 678-680), when that warlike tribe had been broken
up by Heraclius, that the Bulgari, under the leadership of a powerful chief Kuvrat, obtained
the ascendency in Dacia. This chieftain formed an alliance with Heraclius, and he and his successor
Asparich succeeded by their prowess in bringing not only Trajan's Dacia, but also Mœsia, and
what is now Servia, under the Bulgarian rule, and in founding a State which subsisted to the
beginning of the eleventh century.

Of the condition of the people under this régime we have already spoken, and there is too much
similarity between its incidents and those which preceded and followed, to justify our dwelling
upon it at any length. It consists of a series of victories over, or defeats by, the Byzantine
emperors. At one time we find the Bulgarians losing battle after battle and their power on
the wane; then we hear of a Bulgarian chief going to Constantinople, embracing Christianity,
and forming a marriage alliance with a niece of the empress (Irene, 780-802). Next a powerful
and savage king, Krum or Krumus, comes to the throne (probably reigning 807 to 820 A.D.), and
commences hostilities against the Emperor Nicephorus (802-811). Having defeated and slain him,
he is said to have illustrated the custom already referred to by making a goblet of his skull.
The succeeding emperor (Michael, 811-813) fared little better, having suffered an ignominious
defeat at the hands of Krum, who pressed forward to the very gates of Constantinople. Thence,
after dictating terms of peace, he withdrew into his own territories, taking with him, it is
said, 50,000 Daco-Romans who had been made slaves by the Byzantines, and settling them on the
north bank of the Danube. Krum died A.D. 820 or thereabouts.

Another feature in the history of the country, to which we shall refer more fully hereafter,
is the part taken by the dominant race for the time being in the obstruction or promotion of
Christianity, and in the schism in the Catholic Church. At first we hear of little else than
persecution of Christians, and the successor of Krum is said to have martyred one Bishop Emanuel,
who was preaching the Gospel in his dominions. Other Bulgarian chiefs or kings, however, courted
the favour of the Christian emperors and adopted their creed, until the country was annexed
to the Greek Empire in 1014 A.D.

A word or two more concerning the prominent events preceding the first fall of the Bulgarians.
About the end of the ninth century the descendants of the Daco-Romans, recovering from the
repeated blows they had received by the successive barbarian irruptions and conquests, are
said once more to have rallied to power; and several chiefs or kings are believed to have been
of Daco-Roman origin. Of these Simeon (about 887), Peter (? A.D.), and Samuel (about 976 A.D.),
are conspicuous. The first-named we find at war, first with the Grecian Emperor Leo (893 A.D.),
whom he defeated; then with the same ruler and his allies the Ungri, under Arpad, their king.
Finding himself hard pressed, Simeon made peace with Leo, and turned his arms against the Ungri,
whom he defeated with great bloodshed and drove out of his territories. (To the Ungri and their
career we shall return presently.) These feuds continued for a long period, and about 970 A.D.
the Bulgarians crossed the Balkans, but were beaten by the Greeks, whilst two or three years
afterwards the Greek emperor (or rather one of them, for there were several pretenders to the
throne), John Zimisces (? 972), attacked Marcianopolis, the Bulgarian capital, and took the
king, Boris, prisoner. Before the end of the century another Bulgarian king, Simeon, had fought
the Greeks with varying success, but ultimately the Emperor Basilius II. (1014 A.D.) completely
annihilated the Bulgarian army, and annexed the whole country as a province of the Greek Empire.
Thus ended the first rule of the Bulgarians.

[Footnote 113: Le Sage, Table 8.]

[Footnote 114: Gibbon, vol. vii. p. 104.]

[Footnote 115: This character is by some writers given to the Wallachs or Roumanians, and Bonfinius
(Book IV.) says that their name is derived from certain Greek words indicating their skill
in archery.]

[Footnote 116: Roesler, p. 234 et seq. It is necessary to add that Roesler derives much of
his information from Turkish sources. (Appendix, pp. 359-361.) According to one writer, Abu-Ali-Ahmed
Ben Omar Ibn-Dasta, the settled Bulgarians were an agricultural people cultivating cereals,
in whose villages were mosques, elementary schools, &c. Many, however, were heathens, who prostrated
themselves whenever they met an acquaintance.]

V.

Of all the tribes or hordes of the East who made the devoted plains of the Danube their highway
into Europe, there were none who have earned a character so notorious for rapine and cruelty
as the Ungri, or Hungarians. Their origin is doubtful in the extreme, but it is probable that
they were a Turanian race, and Roesler has found them an aboriginal home in Ugria, a country
situated eastward of the Ural mountains and the river Obi.[117] Their savage nature, which
long survived their advent into Europe, has been graphically described by several writers.
Roesler, who has carefully studied their early history, says that they were mare-milking nomads
living in tents, that they ate the half-raw meat of game or fish without knives. Mare's milk
appears to have been what we may call their temperance beverage; whilst stronger drinks were
the blood of wild animals or of their enemies on the field of battle; and the hearts of the
latter were considered a sovereign remedy for diseases.[118] Our own Hallam, in describing
their appearance and ravages in Europe, calls them a 'Tartarian tribe' who moved forward in
great numbers as a vast wave. Their ferocity, he says, was untamed; they fought with cavalry
and light armour, trusting to their showers of arrows, against which the swords and lances
of the European armies could not avail. 'The memory of Attila,' he adds, 'was renewed in the
devastations of these savages, who, if they were not his compatriots, resembled them both in
countenance and customs.'[119]

But the nation who suffered the most severely from their irruptions, and whose history reflects
their ferocity the most faithfully, were the Germans. Fortresses were erected to check their
inroads, but 'exultingly and with scorn these wild horsemen brushed past them, and as though
they were in pursuit of game they picked off the peasant at the plough, or the soldier mounting
guard upon the walls. Men, women, and children were captured wherever they were found; were
coupled by the hair of their heads and driven in herds, like cattle, into Hungary. If a regular
army moved out against them, they dispersed like the winds of heaven, and the joyful cry went
up, "God be praised, they are gone;" but soon they reappeared to harass the retreating soldiery.
The horrors of desolation and rapine were the condition most congenial to them; in these they
revelled and rejoiced; and most happy were they when they could anoint their beards with German
blood, or, casting their firebrands into the houses of God, could witness the devouring flames
as they rose up into the skies.'[120]

Although in after times the Hungarians claimed the suzerainty over part or the whole of Wallachia
(and we shall have occasion hereafter to refer to their relations with that country), their
domination during the ninth and tenth centuries was of a very partial and transient character.
They probably moved westward from the Ukraine at the beginning of the ninth century, and between
the years 839 and 860 they were actively aggressive in Eastern Wallachia. They are said to
have attacked Constantine, the Christian missionary, on his way through the district they occupied,
but his venerable mien prevented them from doing him any injury. He is said not even to have
allowed their cries to disturb him during prayer, in which he was engaged when they made their
appearance. Towards the close of the century, as we have already said, they sustained a defeat
at the hands of the Bulgarians, when, under their chief Arpad, they had formed an alliance
with the Emperor Leo, who is said to have made peace with the enemy and left them in the lurch.
After this they were driven into the Carpathians, A.D. 894, and, having first overrun the greater
part of Transylvania, they commenced those aggressions into Germany, France, and Italy, which
for a considerable period rendered them the terror of all Europe. At the end of the tenth century,
having met with severe reverses and been compelled to withdraw into Hungary, they at length
settled down under an established government. The first king was undoubtedly Stephen (997 or
1008 A.D.), and they annexed Transylvania, which up to that time had been a debatable territory,
either about 1002 according to some writers, or, as others affirm, not until the time of Ladislaus
the Holy (1078-1095 A.D.).[121]

[Footnote 117: Roesler, p. 156 et seq.]

[Footnote 118: Roesler, p. 164 et seq.]

[Footnote 119: Vol. i. p. 20. Hallam says, in a note loc. cit.: 'In Italy they inspired such
terror that a mass was composed especially deprecating this calamity, "Ab Ungarorum nos defendas
jaculis."']

[Footnote 120: E. Duller, Geschichte des deutschen Volkes, p. 108. Leipzig: Wigand. 1840.]

[Footnote 121: During their passage across the Carpathians the Hungarians are said to have
encountered and reduced to submission a number of petty chiefs and tribes, believed by certain
writers to have been the descendants of Daco-Romans who had settled in those mountains many
centuries previously. Amongst them 'Dukes' Gellius or Julius, Claudius, and Mariotus are mentioned.
The chronicler of these events is known as the 'Anonymous Notary of King Bela' of Hungary,
and his narrative is adopted by those modern writers who hold the view that the early princes
of Wallachia descended from the Carpathians, whilst other writers, and notably Roesler, who
denies that theory, throw discredit upon the whole story, and consider the writings of the
'anonymous notary' a fabrication. The bias exhibited by the different historians makes it impossible
to arrive at any just conclusion on the subject.]

VI.

In studying the historical records of this time, the reader will frequently encounter the names
of two tribes which will cause him considerable perplexity, namely, the Patzinakitai,[122]
as they were called by the Greeks, and the Wallachs, who were variously called 'Vlaci,' 'Blaci,'
'Valachi,' 'Olachi,' &c. Of the former little can and need be said. They are sometimes called
Romans; were dominant in certain parts of the country in the tenth, and probably also the eleventh,
century; assisted the Bulgari to drive the Hungarians over the Carpathians, and were even strong
enough to make war upon the Eastern Empire about the end of the eleventh century. About that
time ineffectual attempts were made to christianise them, and the last we hear of them is at
the close of the thirteenth century, when they were associated with the Wallachs in the Carpathians,
and probably gave their name to a district in which they were settled. They are believed, later
on, to have migrated into Hungary, and cease to be named as a distinct people.

Concerning the Wallachs, however, who have played a most important part in Roumanian history,
a good deal is known, but much is still obscure and the subject of heated controversy. First
as to their origin. Some writers believe them to have been a branch of the Slaves; others think
they were the Daco-Roman colonists of Mœsia, who, joining the Slaves, crossed the Danube with
them, and that subsequently the fused races were known as Wallachs, who gradually spread themselves
northward to the Carpathians. Other historians are silent about them until the foundation of
the 'Wallacho-Bulgarian Empire,' and then they simply mention that the two races joined for
the purpose of gaining their independence.[123] There are, however, certain historians of the
middle agea who accord to them a direct Roman origin and say they were the descendants of the
Roman colonists who managed to retain their language and their hold upon the soil throughout
the dark ages, and in spite of the irruptions and passage of the barbarian tribes of the north
and east. This is now the view generally accepted.

As we have freely quoted the opinions of modern writers, many of whom, along with the authorities
on which their views are based, are entirely unknown to the bulk of our readers, it is only
fair that they should be made acquainted with the views of well-known historians who flourished
nearer the time of which we are writing.

Anna Comnena says (between 1081 and 1118 A.D.): 'The Emperor Alexius commanded Cæsar Nicephorus
to enlist as many soldiers as possible by conscription; but not veterans; new men who had not
yet been in campaigns. He instructed him as to the tribes from which he was to select his recruits,
namely, from the Bulgarians and from amongst those youths who had become hardened by a pastoral
life; who possess no settled habitations, but wander about from place to place; those who,
in the vulgar tongue, are called "Wallachs" ("Blachos").'

Bonfinius enters into details of their history. He tells how Trajan conquered the Dacians;
how the province was evacuated; but that the colonists had multiplied to such an extent that
the repeated incursions of barbarians failed to exterminate them; and he adds that they adhere
so tenaciously to their language that one would imagine they had fought for that rather than
for their lives. 'Who would not be astonished,' he says. 'when he considers the deluges of
Sarmatians and Goths, the irruptions of Huns, Vandals, and Gepidæ, the incursions of Germans
and Lombards, to find that traces of the Latin tongue should be met with amongst the Dacians
and Getæ, whom we now call Wallachs, because they are such good marksmen? The Roumanians are
descended from the legions and colonists who were led into Dacia by Trajan and other emperors:
they were called Wallachs from Pius of Flaccus (after a German pronunciation), but by us, because
they are such good marksmen.'

Æneas Sylvius (Pope Pius II., 1458) is still more explicit. In a few pithy sentences he gives
the geography of Wallachia and Transylvania; the history of Dacia from the time of the Persian
and Greek wars to the Roman conquest; the fall of the colony; the derivation of the name from
Flaccus; and then he adds: 'The people even now speak the Roman language, but so mutilated
that an Italian can hardly understand them.'

And not only did learned writers recognise the descent of the Wallachs from the old Roman colonists,
but crowned heads referred to it in their communications with the Bulgarian chiefs and with
one another, as we shall see presently. Lauriani, from whose work we have made these extracts,
says that the Hungarian writers were nearly always silent on the subject, or spoke of it with
the utmost bitterness. He, however, quotes two who, in treating of the various nationalities,
admit that Moldavia and Wallachia contain the descendants of the Roman colonists who speak
a perverted Latin. One of them gives an extract from a poem by Martin Opitz (1621), who describes
the national dance of Wallachia, the Hora, or 'Chora' as he calls it. After speaking of the
vicissitudes through which the people have passed, he says of their language that the Roman
tongue is still in vogue; and of the people who are dancing he says: 'The men, who are almost
made (? clothed) upon the Roman model, are bad, but witty, think much and say little.'[124]

We have already made a brief reference to the influence of the barbarian rule upon the language
and habits of the modern Roumanians, and it is very interesting to find that in the seventeenth
century, when Opitz lived, this fact had already been noticed. Although it concerns chiefly
the national sentiment of the Roumanians of to-day and is no doubt very fascinating for them,
the enquiry still presents some interesting problems for readers of every nationality.

[Footnote 122: Modern French and German writers called them Petschenigues and Petschenegen.]

[Footnote 123: For further details concerning the Patzinakitai and Wallachs the student must
consult the pages of Roesler, Pic, Engel, Lauriani, &c.]

[Footnote 124:

    'Die Menschen, die noch jetzt fast römisch Muster tragen,
    Zwar schlecht, doch witzig sind, viel denken, wenig sagen.'
]

VII.

As the reader is already aware, the first domination of the Bulgarians in the Danubian provinces
was followed by that of the Eastern Empire after the victories of Basilius at the commencement
of the eleventh century, and as a change of rulers in those days usually meant a change of
oppressors, it is not surprising to find, about a century and a half later, that all the populations
were ready for revolt. Amongst these, the most numerous and influential were still the conquered
Bulgarians and the Wallachs. The Wallachs are first distinctly mentioned in the time of Basilius,
in whose armies they fought as allies or mercenaries. Towards the end of the eleventh century
they had spread widely; for mention is made of them as having settled all over the Balkan peninsula
as far as Macedonia in the south, in Wallachia in the north, and in Moldavia, and perhaps even
Bessarabia, in the north-east.[125] That is to say, they had either spread into those countries,
or their ancestors had been there from the Daco-Roman period, and, having become amalgamated
with successive tribes of barbarians, were now once more the dominant race. They must always
have been great warriors, for we find them at one time making irruptions on their own account
into the neighbouring territories, at others in alliance with the Eastern emperors against
the Bulgari or the Hungarians; or, associated with neighbouring tribes, warring against the
last-named ruthless invaders.

And when, from about 1180 to 1200, the Greek power was approaching its dissolution, the people
of the Danubian provinces were ripe for insurrection, and there were not wanting brave leaders
to assist them in striking the blow for their independence. From the conflicting accounts of
historians, neither the names nor number of those leaders, nor yet the precise events which
led to the establishment of the new empire, are ascertainable with exactitude. Either there
were two Wallachian brothers, Peter and Asan, to whom a near relative of the Greek emperor
Isaac Angelos (1185-1195) treacherously allied himself, or three brothers, Peter, Asan, and
John. The origin of the revolt is undoubted; it arose from the levying of what the people deemed
an unjust tax upon them, and probably the refusal of the emperor to admit them into his army
as paid mercenaries, as in the case of other tribes. In order to obtain redress for these grievances,
an embassy, comprising the two brothers Peter and Asan, went to Constantinople. They were admitted
to the emperor's presence, but their requests were refused, and one of the brothers, having
displayed too much warmth on the occasion, received a box on the ear, which may be said to
have laid the foundation of the Wallacho-Bulgarian Empire, and expedited the fall of the Greek
dynasty.

At first the revolt was unsuccessful, and the Wallachs and Bulgarians in alliance were obliged
to retreat across the Danube (1187); but soon returning with a powerful army, in which a new
tribe, the Kumani, were also represented, they succeeded in inflicting a defeat upon the Emperor
Isaac (about 1193), who narrowly escaped with his life. Pressing on to Adrianople, the allies
threatened to overwhelm the Eastern Empire, and the Emperor Alexius Comnenus was only too glad
to conclude a peace with them (about 1199) and to recognise their independence.

[Footnote 125: Pic (p. 64) says the Roumanian Wallachs were first referred to in 970, and (p.
113) first mentioned north of the Danube in 1222.]

VIII.

The Wallacho-Bulgarian Empire lasted, according to different authors, from sixty to one hundred
years, and contemporaneously with it the Kumani were also dominant in part of ancient Dacia;
indeed, according to some writers, Trajan's Dacia was called the land of the Kumani. The information
concerning the latter is very scanty. One writer says that as the 'Uzi' they were found on
the banks of the Danube at the end of the eleventh century; others say they entered Moldo-Wallachia
about 1046. About 1089 they are spoken of as in Transylvania, and the period of their domination
is variously stated as between these dates and 1220-1246. They were probably converted to Christianity
about 1220-1223. About that time the tribe was broken up, and part of them wandered into Hungary,
where they are said to have been guilty of great cruelties, and to have subsisted down to the
fifteenth century.

During the same period also (1200) the order of Teutonic Knights had lands allotted to them
in Transylvania by Andreas II. of Hungary, as well as in part of Wallachia, over which he claimed
the sovereignty; but they sought to free themselves from his control, and the gift was soon
withdrawn, and in 1224 they were compelled to leave the territory over which they had exercised
jurisdiction. About 1247--1250 the Knights of St. John also enjoyed a brief authority in some
parts of Transylvania and Wallachia.

The most interesting incident, of which the account has been handed down to us, in the Wallacho-Bulgarian
régime was the negotiation between King Joannitz, one of the first rulers (to whom reference
has already been made), and Pope Innocent III. (1198-1216).

Lauriani published the whole correspondence, which is so interesting that a brief epitome of
it will not be out of place here. It not only throws light upon the historical events of the
period, but also gives us a glimpse of the proceedings connected with the schism in the Catholic
Church. It is only necessary to premise that in the separation between the Roman and Greek
Catholics which took place in the latter half of the ninth century, the Danubian provinces
followed the eastern section, that the union was complete under Basilius, but that, when the
brothers Asan shook off the Byzantine yoke, there was a national feeling of antagonism in religion
arising out of the political rupture. Of this Innocent took advantage, and in sending a nuncio
to Joannitz he wrote him that God had seen the humility with which he had deported himself
towards the Roman Church, and in the turmoil and dangers of warfare He had not alone mightily
protected him, but also in his mercy had greatly enlarged him (dilatavit). 'We, however,' he
said, 'when we heard that thy forefathers sprang from the noble city of Rome, and that thou
didst not only inherit the nobility of their race, but also true humility towards the Apostolic
chair, had contemplated ere this to address thee in writing as well as by word of mouth through
our nuncios, but the cares of the Church have prevented us hitherto from carrying out our design.'
He then goes on to tell him that he has sent him 'our beloved son Dominicus,' a Greek archpriest
of Brundus, and he commends his nuncio to Joannitz, requiring that he should receive him with
humility, treat him kindly, and through him communicate his further submission more explicitly.
Should he (the Pope) be satisfied concerning his intentions and submission, he proposes to
send him higher nuncios, or rather legates, to assure him and his (subjects) in the true faith.'

Joannitz evidently did not at first receive or treat the holy emissary quite so deferentially
as he might have done; but at length he answers, beginning his epistle as follows:--'To the
venerable and most holy Father, highest priest, I, Johannes, Emperor of the Wallachs and Bulgarians,
send thee joy and health.'[126] He acknowledges the letter, which he says is dearer to him
than gold or any jewels, and thanks God for having remembered him, his race, and the Fatherland
from which they originated.

Then he recites what the Holy Father said about his benevolent intentions, and adds that he,
too, had attempted once, twice, and indeed three times to communicate with him, but was debarred
from doing so by the number of his enemies; but now, knowing what are the Holy Father's feelings
towards him, he sends, along with the nuncio whom the Pope had commissioned, also 'our pious
and trusty priest Blasius,' to convey his thanks, friendship, and service to him, as his Holy
Father and highest priest. Then, with an eye to business (which, by the way, pervades the whole
correspondence), he adds that as by his sacred writing his Holiness had asked him to explain
what he desired from the Holy Roman Church (which, however, was not the case), his Imperial
Majesty desires of the Apostolic chair that he and his subjects should be fortified as children
in the bosom of the Mother Church, and particularly he asks from the Roman Church, his mother,
the crown and honour which his forefathers the old emperors received. 'One was Peter, another
Samuel, and others, who preceded us in the government.' If his Holiness will do this, his every
desire in regard to the demeanour of his Empire towards the Church shall be fulfilled.

'But,' he adds, rather significantly, 'you must not be surprised that your nuncio did not come
back sooner, for we suspected him. Many persons have come and tried to mislead us, but we were
proof against their machinations.' (False prophets he means.) 'But in this case, however, the
prætext' (white robe) 'was convincing proof, and we were satisfied.' (But he was not satisfied.)
'But, most Holy Father, if it please thee, please send us the higher nuncios, and send this
one with them, and then we shall be convinced that both the first and the second mission were
from thee. May the Lord grant thee a long life!'

Then follows another letter from the Pope, which might have been drawn up by a modern conveyancer.
It recites the whole of the previous correspondence, and, referring to Joannitz's request for
a crown, his Holiness says he has had the registers carefully searched, and finds that it is
true many kings were crowned, and, moreover, that in the time of his predecessor, Pope Nicolas,
the King of the Bulgarians, who had often sought his advice, had been baptized with his whole
nation. Afterwards, he says, at the request of Michael of Bulgaria, Pope Adrian sent a subdeacon
and some priests, but, in consequence of the bribes and promises of the Greeks, the Bulgarians
cast them out and took Greek priests in their stead. In consequence of this 'light behaviour,'
therefore, he could not see his way clear to send any of his brothers the cardinals. Still
he had decided to send his chaplain Johannes as a nuncio of the Apostolic chair, and, commending
him to his good offices (in the usual terms), he wished him to understand that he was fully
empowered to improve everything of a spiritual character in the realm. He also sent by him
a robe (pallium) for the archbishop of his country, and a bull announcing the form and nature
of the investiture. In fact this nuncio was authorised to ordain bishops and priests, and generally
to substitute the Roman Catholic for the Greek faith. As to the crown there seems still to
have been a hitch. The nuncio was to look up the older books and documents and learn all about
the ancient manner of proceeding, so that 'we [the Pope] may with greater celerity make the
needful arrangements.' And he bids him warn his 'nobles' also to treat the nuncio with proper
deference.

Joannitz did his utmost to comply with the Papal behest. An archbishopric and two bishoprics
were founded, and the 'Golden Bull' was promulgated, in which it was announced that Joannitz
intended to receive his crown and investiture at the hands of the Universal Priest, Innocent
III., and that certain ecclesiastical functionaries (naming them) had been established by the
Church of Rome, and thereby received his (Joannitz's) sanction, which had previously been accorded
to them by his ancestors.[127] He also sent presents to the Pope as a token of submission;
and all these matters having been duly weighed and considered by his Holiness, he at length
nominated Joannitz King of the Wallachs and Bulgarians, and sent him the much-coveted crown
and sceptre by the hands of Leo, a cardinal of the Order of the Holy Cross, &c., who was commissioned
on his behalf to perform the ceremony of coronation. Lauriani concludes the correspondence
and narrative by saying that 'this Empire of the Roumanians flourished from the year of our
Lord 1186, in which it was restored by the brothers Peter and Asan, under the best and bravest
kings of the family of Asanidæ, until the year 1285, when it was disturbed, but not destroyed,
by the inroads of the Tartars. After the Turks had begun to make irruptions into the European
provinces, in the fourteenth century, it was brought under the yoke by the Sultan Bajazet towards
the close of that century, and wholly annihilated in the year 1392.'

Down to this period (the middle of the fourteenth century) we have been necessarily compelled
to speak loosely of the territories which were overrun and held by the various barbarian races,
for there is no clear information concerning the limits of their occupation; but henceforward
our record will deal chiefly with Roumania as at present constituted. The Wallacho-Bulgarian
monarchy, whatever may have been its limits, was annihilated by a horde of Tartars about A.D.
1250. The same race committed great havoc in Hungary, conquered the Kumani, overran Moldavia,
Transylvania, &c., and held their ground there until about the middle of the fourteenth century,
when they were driven northward by the Hungarian, Saxon, and other settlers in Transylvania;
and with their exit we have done with the barbarians.

[Footnote 126: He calls himself 'Calojohannes Imperator Blacorum et Bulgarorum,' which Lauriani
translates 'Kaiser der Romänen und Bulgaren,' Emperor of the Roumanians, &c. In this and the
preceding letter the reader has illustrations of the bias which weakens the evidence of alleged
facts in Roumanian history.

     State of the country at, the close of the barbarian era--Foundation
     of the Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia--Traditions of Radu
     Negru and Bogdan Dragosch--Historical evidence--Description of the
     various rulerships in Wallachia in the thirteenth century--The
     clans Liteanu and Bassarab--Mircea the Old--His history--The First
     Capitulation (1393)--Character of Mircea--- Verses in his memory by
     Bolentineanu (1826-1872)--John Corvin von Hunniad, Prince of
     Transylvania--His history, character, and exploits--Vlad 'the
     Impaler'--His cruelties--Capitulates to the Turks (1460
     A.D.)--Moldavia--Its founders--Obscurity of
     records--Stephen the Great--His history--His flight to
     Niamtz--Verses by Bolentineanu--Recommends his son to capitulate to
     the Turks--His character--Neagu Bassarab, founder of the Cathedral
     of Curtea d'Ardges--His peaceful reign and works--- Radul
     d'Affumati completes the cathedral--His death--Turkish
     encroachments--Michael the Brave.

I.

When the title of barbarian immigration was ebbing in the Danubian Principalities, it is natural
to suppose that there must have remained a very mixed population; and that, owing to the necessity
for defence against such ruthless invaders as we have described in our last chapter, the inhabitants
would congregate in various places under their ablest leaders, and would fortify themselves
in the best manner possible. This was indeed the case, but until recently the historians of
Roumania have had little to guide them concerning the events of the period beyond traditions
which, though very interesting, are now gradually giving place to recorded and authenticated facts.

Almost any history of the country which it is possible to find to-day, narrates the rise of
the Principalities after the following fashion: The Daco-Roman colonists, historians say, fled
into the Carpathian mountains before the Goths and Huns, and for nearly a thousand years they
retained their nationality, from time to time making descents into the plains from one or other
colony which they had established, always, however, to find new hordes of barbarians in possession.
At length, when the great wave of barbarism had subsided, one Radu Negru, whose name is translated
Rudolph the Black, the chief of the Daco-Roman colony of Fogaras in the Carpathians, descended
into the plains with his followers, according to some writers in 1240 A.D., whilst others say
in 1290, and, first fixing his capital at Campu-Lung, and then moving it to Curtea d'Ardges,
where he built a beautiful cathedral, drove out the barbarians who remained in Wallachia, and
became the first Voivode of that province. This is the tradition of the foundation of Wallachia.

About the same time, we are told, there dwelt in another part of the mountains, to the west
of Fogaras, a colony of Daco-Roman descendants, namely, that of Marmaros or Maramurish, ruled
over by one Bogdan, or Dragosch. This chief, as the story runs, was once out hunting the aurochs
with a large following, accompanied by his dog Molda, and being arrived in a beautiful country
through which flowed a pretty stream, he determined to settle there, called the river the Moldava,
built a city which he named Roman, reduced the inhabitants and their chiefs to submission,
and became the first Voivode of Moldavia.

Of late years these traditions have been subjected to the searching light of criticism, sharpened
in some cases by national or political tendencies, and whilst the story of Radu Negru has fallen
into discredit, that of Bogdan has undergone considerable modification. The very names of the
heroes have been canvassed, and Radu, instead of Rudolph, has been shown to mean 'joy' (as
Bogdan Dragosch was the God-given'), so that, instead of Radu Negru, we now sometimes meet
with the name of Negru Voda, or 'the Black Prince,' who, according to the traditions of some
parts of the country, is still believed to have descended from the Carpathians, and to have
freed the land from the Tartar hordes.

II.

Thus far tradition. Roumania possesses no historical records of the period, but the discovery
of manuscripts in Hungary, Poland, and elsewhere, has established certain facts that are beginning
to serve as a solid foundation upon which the early history of the country is being based.

First, it is admitted that the plains and the slopes of the Carpathians were inhabited by communities
ruled over by chieftains of varying power and influence. Some were banates, as that of Craiova,
which long remained a semi-independent State; then there were petty voivodes or princes, as
the Princes of Zevrin or Severin, Farcas, Seneslas, &c.; and besides these there were khanates,
called in French kinezats, and in German knesenschaften (from the Slav. kniaz, a prince), some
of which were petty principalities, whilst others were merely the governorships of villages
or groups of them. These are only a few of the small rulerships, which are every day multiplied
as the State records of the neighbouring countries are being more and more carefully investigated.

The names of prominent chieftains, too, are becoming clearer in the obscurity of the period.
In or about 1285 a Prince Liteanu conquered and united three Wallachian principalities, and
declared himself independent of the crown of Hungary, which claimed suzerainty over the western
part of Wallachia. He was attacked by the Magyars under George Sowar, and slain in battle,
while his brother was taken prisoner and executed. Some of the successors of this prince were
more fortunate, and one of them, Tugomir, succeeded for a time in securing his independence.
The clan Bassarab was mentioned at even an earlier period, a ban of that name having resisted
the Tartars. Much confusion exists as to the origin of this clan, and whilst some writers call
Tugomir (just referred to) by that name, others confound him with the Negru Voda of tradition.
Whatever may be the obscurity, however, in which their rise is buried, it is certain that the
Bassarab family gave many princes and rulers to Wallachia, and, after intermarrying with other
members of the ruling classes, only became extinct about the year 1685.

In the mountains the state of affairs was somewhat different. There, no doubt from their greater
proximity to the centre of Magyar rule, the tie between the petty princes and the Hungarian
crown seems to have been closer, and whilst some writers affirm that the Wallachs (or Roumanians,
as their countrymen like to call them) enjoyed privileges amounting to a quasi-independence,
the Austrian chroniclers maintain that they were mere vassal retainers of the Court of Hungary.
So, for example, they say that Bogdan, ruler of Marmaros, broke his allegiance to the King
Louis of Hungary, and about 1359 descended, with a largo body of Wallachian followers, amongst
whom were his sons, into the lower lands of what was already called Moldavia, and took possession
of the country.[128]

Shaking ourselves free as far as possible from controversial questions, we may state with safety,
in regard to Wallachia, that for more than a century after the wave of barbarian immigration
had ceased to flow over it, it resembled the condition of Independent Tartary of to-day; that
the number of its petty princes gradually diminished, one of them, Vladislav Bassarab, having
at length secured a great portion of the country under his rule, and almost, if not completely,
shaken off the Hungarian yoke (1350-1376), until, under the reign of Mircea the Old (1386-1418),
a new enemy, the Turks, so far obtained the ascendency over the country as to acquire permanent
rights of suzerainty.

[Footnote 128: For the details of this controversy the reader is referred to the recently published
pages of Roesler and Pic, the first an Austrian and the second a Slav writer.]

III.

Mircea, one of the heroes of Roumanian history, not only secured the independent sovereignty,
and called himself Voivode of Wallachia 'by the grace of God,' but in 1389 he formed an alliance
with Poland, and assumed other titles by the right of conquest.[129] This alliance was offensive
and defensive with Vladislav Jagello, the reigning king, and had for its objects the extension
of his dominions, as well as protection against Hungary on the one hand, and the Ottoman power
on the other; for the Turks, who during the fourteenth century had been waging war with varying
success against the Eastern Empire, were now rapidly approaching Wallachian territory. Although
Constantinople did not come into their possession until the following century, Adrianople had
already fallen, the Turkish armies had overrun Bulgaria, and about the year 1391 they first
made their appearance north of the Danube.

At first the bravery of Mircea was successful in stemming the tide of invasion. The reigning
Sultan was Amaruth II., who sent an army against him under the command of Sisman, Prince of
Bulgaria, a renegade who had married the daughter of the Sultan, and had taken the offensive
against the Christians; but he was signally defeated, and for a brief period Wallachia continued
to enjoy her independence. A year or two afterwards Bajazet II., the successor of Amaruth,
resumed the offensive, and this time, finding himself between two powerful enemies, the King
of Hungary and the Sultan, Mircea elected to form an alliance with the latter, and concluded
a treaty with him at Nicopolis (1393), known as the 'First Capitulation,' by which Wallachia
retained its autonomy, but agreed to pay an annual tribute and to acknowledge the suzerainty
of the Sultan.[130] This treaty is dated 1392; but according to several historians Mircea did
not adhere to it long, for he is said to have been in command of a contingent in the army of
the crusaders, and to have been present at the battle of Nicopolis (1396), in which the flower
of the French nobility fell, and, when he found their cause to be hopeless, once more to have
deserted them and joined the victorious arms of Bajazet.

Of the continued wars and dissensions in Wallachia, during the reign of Mircea it is unnecessary
to speak. He ruled with varying fortunes until 1418 A.D., and there is no doubt that the State
was much better organised for defence, although his wars entailed great misery upon the peasantry.
It is clear, not only from the Treaty of Nicopolis, but from other records, that the general
condition of the country somewhat resembled that of England in the Saxon period. The prince
was elected by the boyards,[131] or barons spiritual and temporal, and by the nation (probably
through representatives), and there was a general Council of State. There were probably freemen
and serfs, although some writers maintain that there was perfect equality until after Mircea's
wars commenced; then it is universally admitted that absolute slavery existed.

It has been said that Mircea kept a standing army of about 18,000 foot and 17,000 cavalry;
but whether that was so or not, he certainly maintained a force sufficiently well organised
to cope with his powerful adversaries the Turks and the Hungarians.[132] That these latter
were still a fierce and untamed race is very probable, as were, no doubt, the followers of
Mircea, and they committed ravages by their inroads, which have caused modern writers to class
them with the barbarians whose rule had ceased. Whatever may have been his faults and vices
(and his desertion of the Christians at Nicopolis, and the number of illegitimate children
left by him, prove that he had both), his patriotism and courage endeared him to posterity,
and his deeds are commemorated in the national poems of the present century. Here is a graphic
picture of

    MIRCEA IN BATTLE.
    By D. BOLENTINEANU (1826-1872).

    Countless hosts of Magyars desolate the lands,
    E'en the sun in terror sees their roving bands;

    But the aged Mircea, firm and undismayed,
    With his braves, a handful, meets the furious raid.

    Knows, full well, to save the homestead's all but vain,
    Calmly still determines duty to maintain.

    Ah! the days of heroes surely now are fled,
    When, at duty's summons, Roumains nobly bled!

    Speaks the hoary chieftain: 'Hearken, brothers all,
    'Tis the will of God, as Roumain I should fall.'

    Dedicate thy life-blood, saviour of a nation;
    'Tis a puny flamelet in a conflagration.

    What is one poor lifetime in th' eternal day?
    'Tis a single blossom in a gorgeous May.

    Ere the noble falcon to the Jäger yields,
    Casts he nest and offspring down into the fields.

    Ere our arms or ankles should be locked in chains,
    Lot us fall as heroes, die as free Roumains.

[Footnote 129: His full title was 'Mircea, D.G. Voivode of Wallachia, Duke of Fogaras and Omlas,
Count of Severin, Despot of the lands of Dobrudscha and Silistria,' and, making allowance for
the exaggerations of a conqueror, it is clear that he must have ruled over an extended territory.]

[Footnote 130: The substance of this treaty, which was reaffirmed in later ones, will be found
in Appendix II., with some data concerning its history, for which, along with much other valuable
information, we are indebted to Prince Jon Ghika, the Roumanian Ambassador at St. James's,
and to Mr. White, our own Minister at Bucarest.]

[Footnote 131: The word 'boyard' originally meant soldier or warrior.]

[Footnote 132: One of his corps of cavalry were called 'Scutelnici' (or substitutes), a term
which we shall find applied to government serfs later on; and Vaillant (vol. i. p. 185) says
the term 'scutage' in England was derived from the same source (scutum, a shield).]

IV.

Before referring to the events which were passing in Moldavia during the period, it may not
be out of place to say a few words here concerning another hero, who, although he ruled in
Transylvania, was a Wallachian by birth, led the Wallachian armies against the Turks, and for
a time succeeded in checking their advance in Europe. This was John Corvinus, as he is known
to English readers, or, more correctly, Johann Corvin von Hunniad, Prince of Siebenbürgen,
who was born about the year 1368 in the village of Corvin, in the Wallachian Carpathians. His
father was a Wallachian, some say of ancient family, and his mother a Greek, to whom also a
high ancestry is attributed. As his history was written by flatterers in order to gain the
favour of his son and successor, these statements as to his high ancestry must be taken cum
grano salis. Johann was at first the captain of a small party of adventurers, having served,
as was the custom in those days, with a troop of twelve horse, first under Demetrius, Bishop
of Agram, and then for two years in Italy under Philip, Duke of Milan. There he met Sigismund,
King of Hungary, who induced him to join his standard, and, as a reward for his services, conferred
upon him the estate of Hunnyades, from which he took his name. Subsequently he rose from post
to post, until he was appointed Viceroy of Siebenbürgen (Transylvania), and eventually Regent
of Hungary. In the former capacity he formed an alliance against the Turks (about 1443) with
Vladislaus, King of Poland and Hungary,[133] and Vlad, Voivode of Wallachia, and under his
leadership the Christian armies frequently encountered the Ottomans, notably on three occasions--at
Varna under Amaruth II. (1444) and Cossova (1448), in both of which encounters the allies were
defeated, and finally at Belgrade (1456), where the Turks were completely routed. Various and
conflicting accounts have been given of these battles, and of Hunniades's conduct during the
encounters. At Varna, where Vladislaus was killed, the Poles charged Hunniades with cowardice;
but the facts are probably that he defeated the right wing of the Turks, but that the temerity
of Vladislaus caused the defeat of the army and his own death. The same charge was brought
against him by the Poles in regard to the defeat at Cossova, but from his known bravery it
was no doubt equally groundless. At Belgrade the city was completely invested by the Turks;
but at the head of an undisciplined army Hunniades forced his way into the city, and by a subsequent
sally, in which the Sultan Mohammed was wounded, he compelled the Turks to raise the siege
and withdraw in confusion. John Hunniades died in the same year, and his son Matthias was elected
to the crown of Hungary, over which country he ruled for more than thirty years.

The character of John Hunniades is well worth a brief consideration. As we have said, he was
charged with cowardice by his Polish allies, but by the Turks he was so dreaded that they gave
him the name of the Devil, and used it to frighten their children when they misbehaved themselves.
Many anecdotes, of which the following is one, are related of his personal courage. After the
battle of Cossova, whilst fleeing alone through the Carpathians, he was captured by two brigands,
who deprived him of his arms. The cupidity of these men was aroused by a splendid gold chain
which he wore, and one of them snatched it from his neck. Presently, however, forgetting the
maxim that there is honour even amongst thieves, the two bandits began wrangling for the possession
of the booty, and whilst they were so occupied Hunniades managed to recover his sword, and,
engaging them in fight, he ran one through the body, whereupon the other fled.

If his biographers are to be believed, he must have been a remarkable man. 'As fishes are used
to the water,' says one, 'as the deer to the forest glade, so was he adapted for the bearing
of arms, a born leader of warriors, and the field of battle was his life-element.' The nobility
of his bearing, another says, and his winning manner enabled him to secure the affection of
his soldiers, whilst his readiness to serve, his piety and benevolence, and his shrewd policy,
gained for him the confidence of his superiors, the leadership of armies, and the highest offices
of the State. At his death he was universally mourned. Pope Nicholas ordered the cardinals
to perform a magnificent requiem in his memory, as the pious and successful defender of the
Christian religion. Even the Sultan Mohammed, whom he had just defeated--when George, Despot
of Servia, brought him what he thought would be the gratifying news of the prince's death--lowered
his head, and, after a long silence, exclaimed, 'There never was, under any ruler, such a man
since the beginning of the world.'

As we have said, the Turks were so much afraid of Hunniades that they are said to have given
him the name of 'the Devil;' but the same designation, as well as that of the Impaler, has
also been bestowed upon Vlad, a voivode of Wallachia, who was probably the ally of Hunniades,
and who, if one-tenth of what has been related of him be true, has a much better claim to the
title. He is represented to have been one of the most atrocious and cruel tyrants who ever
disgraced even those dark ages. One day he massacred 500 boyards who were dissatisfied with
his rule. The torture of men, women, and children, seems to have been his delight. Certain
Turkish envoys, when admitted into his presence, refused to remove their turbans, whereupon
he had them nailed to their heads. He burned 400 missionaries and impaled 500 gipsies to secure
their property. In order to strike terror into Mohammed II. he crossed over into Bulgaria,
defeated the Turks, and brought back with him 25,000 prisoners, men, women, and children, whom
he is said to have impaled upon a large plain called Praelatu. Notwithstanding his successes,
however, Vlad was at length compelled to submit to the Turkish rule, and he concluded the 'Second
Capitulation' at Adrianople (1460), in which the tribute to the Porte was increased, but no
other important change was made in the terms of suzerainty.[134]

[Footnote 133: The two crowns had been united under him.]

[Footnote 134: To show what uncertainty hangs over the history of this man, and in fact of
the whole period, it may be mentioned that Neigebaur and other writers make this treaty to
have been signed between Vlad II. and Mohammed III., who reigned 135 years later, whilst French
writers state that it was between Vlad V. and Mohammed II.; but they all agreed as to the date
1460. Henke calls him Vlad III. He was universally named the Impaler in consequence of a practice
which is well known to our readers through the so-called Bulgarian atrocities. A sharpened
pole was forced into the body of the victim, and the other end was then driven into the earth,
the unfortunate man, woman, or child being left to writhe in agony until relieved by death.]

V.

For a century after the foundation of Moldavia, or, as it was at first called, 'Bogdania,'
by Bogdan Dragosch, the history of the country is shrouded in darkness. Kings or princes are
named, one or more of whom were Lithuanians; two or three Bogdans, Theodor Laseu, Jurgo Kuriotovich,
Peter, Stephen, Roman, Alexander, &c., and some of them are said to have been dethroned and
to have reigned twice and even three times, until at length a prince more powerful than the
rest ascended the throne, and by the prowess of his arms succeeded in establishing his name
and fame in history. This was Stephen, sometimes called the 'Great' or 'Good,' but whether
he deserved the latter title the reader will be best able to judge for himself.

He came to the throne about 1456 or 1458, and reigned until 1504, and his whole life was spent
in wars against Transylvania, Wallachia (which he at one time overran and annexed to Moldavia),
the Turks, and Tartars. Considered in conjunction with the acts of Hunniades and Vlad the Impaler,
those of Stephen present a tolerably faithful picture of the condition of Roumania in the fifteenth
century. We shall therefore ask the reader to bear with us whilst we hurry through the leading
events of his life. Five years after he came to the throne, Stephen overran Transylvania. In
1465 he married Eudoxia, a Byzantine princess, and two years afterwards we find him at war
with Matthias of Hungary (the son of John Corvinus), by whom he was defeated at Baja. Between
that time and 1473 he once, if not twice, defeated Radu (the brother of Vlad the Impaler),
King of Wallachia, and in 1475 he was at war with the Turks, whom he defeated on the river
Birlad, between Barnaba, and Racoviça. This battle he is said to have won by stratagem. He
concealed a number of men in a neighbouring wood, and when the battle was at its height they
were ordered to commence playing various instruments as though another force were approaching,
and this created such a panic amongst the Ottomans that they gave way and fled precipitately,
followed by Stephen, who put many to the sword. In that year also Stephen again defeated Radu
and completely overran Wallachia. Having reduced it to submission, he placed a native boyard
on the throne as his viceroy, who showed his gratitude to Stephen by rebelling and liberating
the country from his rule; but he was in his turn murdered by his Wallachian subjects. In 1476
Stephen sustained a terrible defeat at the hands of the Ottomans at Valea Alba (the White Valley),
but eight years afterwards, allied with the Poles, he again encountered this terrible enemy.
His army was at first forced to give way, and he is said to have fled for refuge to Niamtz,
where he had a castle, but his mother refused him admission and bade him return to his army.
Here is the story, with its sequel, as it is told by the poet who has already once been quoted
(Bolentineanu):--

    'Blows are heard resounding at the outer gate.
    'Tis the hour of midnight; whose the voice so late?
    "Hasten, dearest mother"--ha! that well-known sound--
    "From the host I'm driven, bleed at every wound!
    Fearful was our fortune, terrible the fray,
    Scattered all my army, fled they in dismay.
    Mother, open quickly; infidels pursue,
    Icy is the night wind, purple blood their cue."
    "Ha! what say'st thou, stranger? Stephen's far away,
    Dealing death, strong-handed, where he stands at bay.
    Of him the mother I; such my son is he.
    Be thou who thou may'st, my son thou canst not be.
    (Yet can Heaven have fated, dealt this fearful blow?
    Can his soul be craven, quail before the foe?)
    If in truth thou'rt Stephen, faint returning home,
    Not within these portals shalt thou ever come.
    Hasten to thy brave ones; for thy country fall;
    Then maternal love with wreaths shall deck thy pall!"
    Once more Stephen rallies; lusty sounds his horn;
    Heroes flock around him on the battle morn.
    Fierce and dire the slaughter; on that glorious day
    Falls the Moslem chivalry like the new-mown hay.'

Notwithstanding the great victory which he obtained, the Moslem power was too strong for him,
and he is found, before the century's close, allied with them against Poland, to whose sovereign
he had but a few years previously sworn fealty, and into which he now made a raid. In 1504
he died a natural death, and it is said that before his decease, either from fear of the Turks,
or distrusting the power of his son Bogdan, he advised the latter to make a permanent treaty
with the Porte, which he did shortly after his death.[135] The most favourable traits in Stephen's
character seem to have been his courage and patriotism, notwithstanding the story which is
told of his flight to Niamtz. Like Mircea, he organised an army which is estimated at about
the same strength, with the addition of irregular troops. That he was pious after a fashion
is most likely, but that he also practised the tyrannic cruelties of his age is undoubted.
Shortly after his advent to the throne, the Tartars entered his dominions, carrying fire and
sword everywhere, but they were eventually repulsed and driven out by Stephen. In the course
of this campaign he took a son of the Tartar chief prisoner, and when envoys came to treat
for his liberation he ordered the prince to be decapitated in their presence, a deed which
may have been justified as a lesson to the ruthless tribe who had invaded his country. Not
content with this, however, he impaled all the envoys but one, whose nose and ears he cut off,
and sent him back to his master in that dreadful condition. 'But,' adds the chronicler, 'Stephen,
who was a man of his period, only regarded this act as a manifestation of zeal in the faith.
Shortly afterwards he built the monastery of Putna, dedicated it to Jesus and the Virgin, and
caused to be transported thither the wooden chapel which Dragosch had constructed at Volovitz.'
'These were the ordinary practices of the age,' remarks another commentator; 'and if such treatment
was reserved for the high and noble, one may guess what was the fate of the humble.'

[Footnote 135: For the terms of this treaty see Appendix II.]

VI.

What that fate was may easily be imagined by anyone who follows the narrative of the wars which
devastated the land. But, before treating of the condition of the country and the customs of
the period, we must refer to one or two voivodes whose rule was pacific, and whose energies
were directed to the promotion of civilising influences. Concerning these, too, we have the
trustworthy records already cited in our description of the cathedral of Curtea d'Ardges. One
of them was Neagu Bassarab,[136] the other John Radul, known as Radul d'Affumati, and both
were voivodes of Wallachia.

The first-named, Neagu, came to the throne either in 1511 or 1513, and died a natural death
in 1520, a rare event in those days. He was conspicuously a man of peace in a country and age
of war and bloodshed, and was eminently pious and benevolent. He repaired several churches,
restored the cathedral of Tirgovistea, roofed other churches with lead, both in and out of
Wallachia, and built the beautiful cathedral of Curtea d'Ardges, the erection of which, as
we have heard, was attributed by tradition to Radu Negru, the reputed founder of Wallachia.
The tablet in his memory has already been referred to elsewhere. In war he never took any personal
part, and, as we have already remarked, he died peacefully in his bed.

He was followed on the throne by 'Radu the Monk,' who met with the usual fate, having been
slain by the Turks; and this prince was succeeded by the Radu d'Affumati above named, a nephew
of Nyagu (1522), who occupied the throne for seven years.

War, war was still the cry; he had numerous vicissitudes during his short reign; participated
in the defeat of the Hungarians and Poles in the battle of Mohacs, 'which witnessed the slaughter
of a king, seven bishops, five hundred nobles, and twenty thousand soldiers; not only laid
open the whole country to the inroads of the Turks and established them for nearly a century
and a half in its capital, but changed the reigning dynasty of Hungary and introduced for the
first time a German sovereign to the Hungarian throne.'[137] Radu was dethroned, and in his
attempt to leave the country he was seized by two of his nobles and decapitated. During part
of his reign, however, Wallachia enjoyed some tranquillity, and Radu continued the works begun
by his uncle; amongst others, as we know, he completed the cathedral of Ardges.

After the battle of Mohacs the Turks began to encroach more openly upon Roumanian (Moldo-Wallachian)
territory. They occupied and fortified Braila, Giurgevo, and Galatz; interfered in the election
of the princes, in one or two instances securing the appointment for men whose sole claim to
the crown was their willingness to pay a heavy bribe. One of those was a Saxon Lutheran of
Transylvania, who was, however, a favourable example of the princely race. He was elected Voivode
of Moldavia about 1580, and built a church for the Lutherans. In addition to the intrigues
for the voivodeship, internecine wars broke out between the two Principalities, and the boyards
made lawless raids upon one another. In these civil broils the Turks intervened, adding to
their own influence, and rendering the princes more and more subservient to their will. This
state of things lasted until the end of the sixteenth century, when another hero, Michael the
Brave of Wallachia, restored tranquillity and independence to the Principalities, and raised
them for a season in the esteem of surrounding nations. As his victories were solid, and the
heroic age in the early history of Roumania may be said to have closed with his death, we feel
justified in making more than a passing reference to his exploits and career, more especially
as in so doing we shall also be able to present a trustworthy account of the condition of society
in his day.

[Footnote 136: Called also Nyagor, Negoje, Nyagoe.]

[Footnote 137: Paget, vol. ii. p. 8.]

CHAPTER XII.

THE TIMES AND CAREER OF MICHAEL THE BRAVE.

