It is a well known fact among electricians that the volume and tension of electricity vary
both in the earth and in the atmosphere at different sections of the earth's surface, and I
conceive that we may yet find means of utilizing this differential tension of electricity;
indeed, it is reported that during a recent storm the wires of an ocean cable were grounded
at both ends and a sufficient current for all practical purpose flowed from the European to
the American continent, with all batteries removed, showing that the tension was so much greater
in Europe as to cause the electricity to flow through the copper cable to this side in preference
to passing through the earth or the sea. It is also said that during an east-going storm it
was found impossible to work the telegraph lines between New York and Buffalo, but on taking
off the batteries at both ends and looping the ends of the wire in the air, that a constant
current of electricity passed from Buffalo to New York, and the line was kept in constant use
in that direction without any battery connection until the storm abated. Now, how far or to
what advantage we may be able to utilize this differential tension of electricity in the earth
and the air, we cannot now say; but I think that we may justly look for valuable developments
in this direction.

If, as I verily believe, a process will soon be discovered by which dynamic caloric can be
produced by the oxidation of petroleum with non-luminous combustion in an insulated chamber,
as we now oxidize zinc, electricity will then be obtained from so small a weight, and at such
a low cost, as to insure aerial navigation beyond a doubt. Not with balloons and their cumbrous
inflations, but with machines capable of carrying the load, and traveling by displacement of
the air at high velocities. Therefore we may expect that aerial navigation will be developed
in the near future to be one of the greatest enterprises of the world.

And lastly, will it pay to use luminous combustion as a first power for generating dynamic
caloric for use as a second power, as is now practiced?

At the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, gas is consumed in an Otto gas engine,
which drives a Gramme generator; and the lecture room is lighted with electricity, and I am
informed that the light is both better and cheaper than when they used the gas in the ordinary
gas burners. Hence we may expect to see gas consumed to advantage for producing electric lights.

Considering the difficulties of transmitting steam power to a considerable distance, and the
comparative great cost of running small engines, it is more than likely that electricity as
at present generated will be found to be economical for driving small motors.

Having thus endeavored to explain what electricity is, and the laws which govern the occlusion
of static caloric, and the development of dynamic caloric (electricity), in conclusion I call
the attention of the inventors of the age to the great need of a process for oxidizing coal
or oil at a low degree, within an insulated vessel. With such an invention electricity would
be obtained at such a low cost that it would be used exclusively to light and heat our houses,
to smelt, refine, and manipulate our metals, to propel our cars, wagons, carriages, and ships,
cook our food, and drive all machinery requiring motive power.

       *       *       *       *       *

ELECTRIC LIGHT APPARATUS FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC PURPOSES.

By A.J. JARMAN.

For some time past it has been the desire of many photographers to have at hand a ready means
of producing a powerful and highly actinic artificial light, suitable for the production of
negatives, and easily controllable. Several forms of apparatus have been designed, and I believe
have been, to a certain extent, employed successfully in portraiture. But it has been well
known for many years that the electric light was just the light that would answer the photographer's
requirements, owing to its possessing great actinic power; but the cost of its production was
too great for general adoption; indeed, such might be said of it now as far as dynamo-electric
machines and steam or gas motors are concerned, for the majority of photographers. It is true
that several influential photographers have already adopted the use of the electric light for
portraiture, but the primary cost of the apparatus employed by these firms is far beyond the
reach of most portraitists. The apparatus about to be described is one that has been carefully
worked out to meet the wants of the photographer in almost every particular; in fact, with
this apparatus, portraits can, and have been, produced in an ordinary sitting room, as good
and as perfect as if taken in a well-lighted studio.

The generator of the electric current consists of a series of voltaic elements of zinc and
carbon--forty-eight in number--these elements being made up of ninety-six zinc plates and forty-eight
carbon plates; thus the generator consists of forty-eight voltaic elements arranged in rows
of twelve; they are all carefully screwed upon suitable bars of wood, and these bars are joined
by other cross bars, which bind the whole in a compact form; the battery being suitably connected
so as to produce a current of very high electro-motive force, and so arranged over their exciting
trough that the plates can be raised or lowered at will, as seen in Fig. 1, which will explain
itself almost at first sight.

The troughs are made of mahogany, put together with brass screws, and well saturated with an
insulating compound which also makes them acid proof; the cells are charged with a saturated
solution of bichromate of potash, to which has been added twenty fluid ounces of sulphuric
acid to each gallon.

To produce the electric current, all that is needed is to lower these suspended elements down
into the trough, having previously connected the wires as shown in Fig. 1, to the electric
lamp, Fig 2. At once a light starts up, between the carbon pencils, of a thousand-candle power
or more. With a light of this power, a large head on cabinet or carte size plate may be produced
in three or four seconds.

The generator occupies a floor space of three feet six inches by two feet, and stands two feet
six inches high. The cells will cost 5s. to charge, and will produce upward of sixty negatives
before being exhausted. All that is necessary, in recharging, is to lift the elements up out
of the way, take out the troughs by their handles and empty them, charging them again by means
of a toilet jug. When replaced, the whole apparatus is fit for use again; the whole of the
above operation occupies but a quarter of an hour, and as there are no earthenware cells employed,
there is no fear of breakage.

The small amount of labor and cost of working the above apparatus will compare favorably with
the production of the electric light from a dynamo-electric machine for the photographer, and
when we consider that the cost of the whole of the above apparatus, consisting of a generator
automatic lamp, reflector, and all the necessary appendages, is less then one-tenth of the
dynamo machine, motor, shafting, etc., to produce the same result, it would seem to have a
greater claim for its adoption with those who wish to employ the electric light, whether for
work at night, use in the sitting room, or to assist daylight on the dark and foggy days of winter.

