In May, 1856, I received the appointment of medical assistant to Dr. Walker, at the Lunatic
Hospital, South Boston, and gave up for a couple of months my practice of lifting. The consequence
was a rapid diminution of strength, which suggested to me a return to the lifting exercise.
Near the hospital was a large unoccupied building, formerly the House of Industry. In the cellar
of this building I put a barrel, and loaded it with rocks and gravel as I had done in Roxbury.
Immediately overhead, on the first floor, I cut a hole, about six inches square, and passed
up a rope attached to the barrel. This rope I looped at the end, for the reception of a handle.
On the floor I nailed two cleats between three and four feet apart, as guards to keep my feet
from slipping. Beginning with about six hundred pounds, I added a few pounds daily, till I
was able, in November, 1856, to lift with my hands alone nine hundred pounds.

Returning home the ensuing winter, I attended a second course of medical lectures, and, in
the routine of labors incident to a medical student's life, omitted to develop further my powers
as a lifter. In the summer of 1857 I became a practitioner of medicine. In the autumn of that
year, a gentleman, who had been looking at my lifting-apparatus, remarked to me, "If you are
as strong as they tell me, what is to prevent your seizing hold of me, (I weigh only a hundred
and eighty pounds) holding me at arm's-length over your head, and pitching me over that fence?"
To this I replied, that, if he would give me six weeks for practice, I would satisfy him the
thing could be done. He agreed to be on hand at the end of the time named.

In order to be sure of the muscles that would be brought into play by the feat, I procured
an oblong box with a handle on either side running the whole length. Into the box I threw a
number of brick-bats,--then raised the box at arm's-length above my head, and threw it over
my vaulting-pole, which was at an elevation of six and a half feet from the ground. Subsequently
I added more brick-bats, till gradually their weight amounted to precisely one hundred and
eighty pounds. Having practised till I could easily handle and throw the box thus charged,
I informed my challenger that I was ready for him. He came, when, seizing him by the middle,
I lifted him struggling above my head, and threw him over the fence before he was hardly aware
of my intent. As he was somewhat corpulent and puffy, and the act involved an abdominal pressure
which was by no means agreeable, he expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the experiment,
but objected very decidedly to its repetition.

In June, 1858, I commenced practising with two fifty-pound dumb-bells, and subsequently added
one of a hundred pounds, which I was prompted to get from hearing that one of that weight was
used by Mr. James Montgomery, at that time a celebrated gymnast of New York City, and afterwards
a successful teacher at the Albany Gymnasium. Not having given much attention to the development
of the extensor muscles of the arms for several months previous, it was a number of weeks before
I could put this dumb-bell up at arm's-length above my head with one hand. As soon as I succeeded
in doing this with comparative ease, I procured another hundred-pound dumb-bell, and in a few
months succeeded in exercising with both of the instruments at the same time, raising each
alternately above my head. I then commenced practice with a dumb-bell weighing one hundred
and forty-one pounds. It consisted of two shells connected by a handle, which, being removable,
allowed me to introduce shot, from time to time, into the cavities of the shells. After a few
months of practice, I could, with a jerk, raise the instrument from my shoulder to arm's-length
above my head. My first public exhibition of this feat took place in Philadelphia, in April, 1860.

The spring of 1859 was now drawing nigh, and I began to think of giving a public lecture on
Physical Culture, illustrating it with some exhibitions of the strength to which I had attained.
My father approved the venture, but, bethinking himself of my extreme diffidence, significantly
asked, when I would be ready to permit a public announcement of my intention. "Oh, in a few
days," I replied, as if it were as small a matter for me to lecture in public as to lift a
thousand pounds in a gymnasium. Weeks flew by, and still to the galling inquiry, "When?" I
could only answer, "Soon, but not just yet." February and March had come and gone, and still
I was not ready. Finally, to the oft-renewed interrogatory, I made this reply: "As soon as
I can shoulder a barrel of flour, a feat which I am determined to accomplish before an audience,
you may announce my lecture."

I had then been practising some two months with a loaded barrel, so contrived that it should
weigh a little more each succeeding day; and it had now reached a hundred and ninety pounds.
About this time it occurred to me, that, among my many experiments, I had never fairly tried
that of a vegetable diet. I read anew the works of Graham and Alcott; and conceiving that my
strength had reached a stagnation-point, I gave up meat, and restricted my animal diet to milk.

A barrel of flour weighs on an average two hundred and sixteen pounds. I therefore could not
succeed in shouldering one until twenty-six pounds had been added to my loaded barrel. Day
after day I shouldered my one hundred and ninety pounds, but could not get an ounce beyond
that limit. My grand theory of the possible development of a man's strength began to look somewhat
insecure.

  "So fares the system-building sage,
  Who, plodding on from youth to age,
  Has proved all other reasoners fools,
  And bound all Nature by his rules,--
  So fares he in that dreadful hour
  When injured Truth exerts her power
  Some new phenomenon to raise,
  Which, bursting on his frighted gaze,
  From its proud summit to the ground,
  Proves the whole edifice unsound."
                    JAMES BEATTIE

The shouldering of a barrel of flour is a feat, by the way, which many an old inhabitant will
tell you that he, or some friend of his, could accomplish in his eighteenth year. Why it should
always be among the res gestæ temporis acti cannot be readily explained. It is a common belief
that any stout truckman can do the thing; but I have been assured by one of the leading truckmen
of Boston, that there are not, probably, three individuals in the city who are equal to the
accomplishment.

The mode of life that I had hitherto found essential to the keeping up of my strength was quite
simple, and rather negative than positive. From tobacco and all ardent spirits, including wine,
I had to abstain as a matter of course. Beer and all fermented liquors had also been ruled
out. Impure air must be avoided like poison. Summer and winter I slept with my windows open.
Badly ventilated apartments were scrupulously shunned. Cold bathing of the entire person was
rarely practised oftener than once a week in cold weather or twice a week in warm weather.
A more frequent ablution seemed to over-stimulate the excretory functions of the skin, so that
excessive bathing defeated its very object. The "tranquil mind" must be preserved with little
or no interruption. Great physical strength cannot coexist with an unhappy, discontented temper.
You must be habitually cheerful, if you would be strong. With regard to diet,--that was the
very experiment I was trying,--the experiment, namely, of going without solid animal food.
With me it did not succeed. So far from gaining in strength, hardly did I hold my own. Suddenly
I resolved to give up my vegetable diet, and return to beef-steaks, mutton-chops, and loins
of veal. A daily appreciable increase of strength was soon the consequence. Within ten days
I succeeded in shouldering the loaded barrel weighing two hundred and sixteen pounds; and a
day or two after I shouldered, in the presence of our grocer himself, a barrel of flour.

I had now no further excuse for deferring my promised lecture. The month of May had arrived.
My father delicately broached the subject of the announcement. Being a little fractious, perhaps
from some ebb in my strength, I hastily replied,--

"Announce it for the 30th of May."

"What hall shall I engage?"

"Any hall in Boston. Why not the Music Hall?" I added, affecting a valor I was far from feeling;
but, like Macbeth, I now realized that "returning were as tedious as go o'er."

Mercantile Hall, in Summer Street, was engaged for me,--it being central, modest in point of
size, commodious, and favorably known. At this time I was in excellent health and weighed one
hundred and forty-three pounds. But from the moment of the public announcement of my lecture,
my appetite for food, for meat particularly, began to fail me. "How peevish and irritable he
is growing!" I heard one member of the family remark to another. Soon the grocer's scales indicated
that my weight was diminishing. It fell to one hundred and forty-one,--then to one hundred
and forty,--then to one hundred and thirty-eight,--and finally, when the 30th of May arrived,
I found I weighed only one hundred and thirty-four pounds!

The crisis was now at hand. Do not laugh at me, ye self-assured ones, with your comfortable
sense of your own powers,--ye who care as little for an audience as for a field of cabbages,--do
not jeer at one who has felt the pangs of shyness and quailed under the imaginary terrors of
a first public appearance. For you it may be a small matter to face an audience,--that nearest
approximation to the many-headed monster which we can palpably encounter; but for one whose
diffidence had become the standard of that quality to his acquaintances the venture was perilous
and desperate, as the sequel showed.

Never had time rolled by with such fearful velocity as on that eventful day. Breakfast was
hardly over before preparations were being made for dinner. Small appetite had I for either.
Before I had finished pacing the parlor there was a summons to tea. It was like the summons
to the criminal: "Rise up, Master Barnardine, and be hanged." With a most shallow affectation
of nonchalance I sat down at the table. A child might have detected my agitation; and yet,
with horrible insincerity, I alluded to the news of the day, and asked the family why they
were all so silent. They saw from my look that they might as well have joked with a man on
his way to execution.

Having dressed and adorned myself for the sacrifice, I returned to the parlor, when the rumbling
of coach-wheels, the sudden letting down of steps, and then a frightfully discordant ring of
the doorbell, sent the blood from my cheeks and made my heart palpitate like a trip-hammer.
"Is th-th-that the off-officer,--I mean the coachman?" I stammered. Yes, there was no doubt
about it.

Straightening my person, I affected a dignified calmness, and assured my dear, anxious mother
that I was not in the least nervous,--oh, not in the least!

It was a gloomy night, and the streets wore a dismal aspect. The hall was distant about three
miles; but in some mysterious manner, or by some route which I have never been able to discover,
the coachman seemed to abridge the distance to less than half a mile. We are in Summer Street,--before
the door. Some juvenile amateurs, attracted by stories of the strong man, surround the carriage
to get a sight of him.

"Ha! what are these? Sure, hangmen, That come to bind my hands, and then to drag me Before
the judgment-seat: now they are new shapes, And do appear like Furies!"

The words of Sir Giles Overreach, one of the parts I had studied during my histrionic accès,
were not at all inappropriate to the state of mind in which, with knee-joints slipping from
under me, I now made my way up-stairs. Having reached the upper entry, I paused, and glanced
at the audience through the windows, before entering the little retiring-room behind the stage.
With an inward groan at my presumption, I passed on. To think, that, but for my own madness,
I might have been at that moment comfortably at home, reading the evening paper! Nay, were
it not better to be tossing on stormy seas, driving on a lee-shore, toiling as a slave under
a tropic sun, than here, with a gaping audience waiting to devour me with their eyes and ears?

The first thing I did, on reaching the retiring-room, was to give way to a fearful fascination
and take another peep at the audience from behind a curtain at the side-entrance. I then looked
at my watch. Twenty minutes to eight! People were pouring in, notwithstanding the inclement
weather. The hall was nearly crowded already. One familiar face after another was recognized.
Surely everybody I know is present.

Another look at my watch. Quarter to eight! Suddenly the frantic thought occurred to me, What
if I have lost my manuscript? Where did I put it? 'Tis in none of my pockets! Good gracious!
Has any one seen my manuscript? Come, Jerome, no fooling at a time like this! Where have you
hidden it? What! You know nothing about it? Hunt for it, then! Wouldn't it be a charming scrape,
if I couldn't find my lecture? Isn't this it, in the drawer? Oh, yes! I must have put it there
unconsciously.

Being in a high state of perspiration, and wiping my forehead incessantly, I disarrange my
hair. Where's that brush? No one can tell. Agony! Where's the brush? Here on the floor. Oh,
yes! There! What a blaze my cheeks are in! The audience will think they are flushed with Bourbon.
No matter. That manuscript has disappeared again. Confusion! Where is it? Here in your overcoat-pocket.
All right.

Five minutes to eight. Grasping the scroll, I rush to the side-entrance. The audience begin
to manifest their impatience by applause. Suddenly I hear the bell of the Old South Church
strike eight. The last vibration passes like an ice-bolt through my heart. Wrought up to desperation,
I thrust aside the curtain. This gives a portion of the audience a sight of me, and I hear
some one exclaim, "There he is!" Horrible exposure! I dodge back out of view, as if to escape
the discharge of a battery. A round of impatient applause rouses me. I count three, and precipitate
myself forward to the centre of the stage.

The hall is filled,--all the seats and most of the standing-places occupied. But I can no longer
recognize any one. Friend and foe are confounded in an undistinguishable mass; or, rather,
they are but parts and members of one hideous monster, moving itself by one volition, winking
its thousand eyes all at once, and ready to swallow me with a single deglutition. However,
the plunge is made. The worst is over. I rallied from the shock, and in a clear, but unnecessarily
loud and ponderous voice, pitched many degrees too high, I commenced my lecture.

For some ten minutes, if I may believe the tender reports in the newspapers the next day, I
got on very respectably. I had won the attention of the audience. But, at an unlucky moment,
a fresh arrival of persons at the door made the monster turn his thousand eyes in that direction.
I mistook it for an indication that he was getting weary of my talk. My attention was distracted.
Then came a suspension of all thought, an appalling paralysis of memory. Having learnt the
first part of my discourse by heart, I had been reciting it without turning over the leaves
of the manuscript; and now I was unable to recollect at what point I had left off, or whether
I had given five pages or ten.

Frightful dilemma! Stupefied with horror, I gazed intently on the page before me till the lines
became all blurred, and a blue mist wavered before my eyes. Then came a pause of intensest
silence. The monster lying in wait for me evidently began to anticipate that his victim's time
was come, and so, like a crafty monster, he remained still and patient. Who could endure a
nightmare like this? I felt myself reeling to and fro. Then a pleasant thrill, like that, perhaps,
which drowning men feel, ran through my frame. All became dark,--and the strong man dropped,
like a felled ox, senseless on the stage.

When consciousness returned I was lying flat on my back, and several persons were bending over me.

"Keep down,--don't rise," some one said.

"What has happened?" I asked.

"Nothing,--only you were a little faint."

"Faint? A man who can lift a thousand pounds faint--at the sight of an audience? Absurd! Let
me rise."

And in spite of all opposition I rose, grasped my manuscript, walked to the front of the stage,
and resumed my lecture. Alas!

  "Reaching above our nature does no good;
  We must sink back into our own flesh and blood."

I had not proceeded far before I felt symptoms of a repetition of the calamity; and lest I
should be overtaken before I could retreat, I stammered a few words of apology, and withdrew
ingloriously from public view. Fresh air and a draught of water, which some obliging friend
had dashed with eau-de-vie, soon restored me. But I took the advice of friends and did not
make a third attempt that evening.

The audience, had it been wholly composed of brothers and sisters, could not have been more
indulgent and considerate. One skeptical gentleman was heard to say,--

"I don't believe he can lift nine hundred pounds."

And another added,--

"Nor I,--any more than that he can shoulder a barrel of flour."

"Or raise his body by the little finger of one hand," said another.

Whereupon a venerable citizen, a gentleman long known and respected as the very soul of honor,
truthfulness, and uprightness, came forward on the stage before the audience, and with emphatic
earnestness, and in a loud, intrepid tone of voice, exclaimed,--

"Ladies and gentlemen,--The heat of the room was too much for the lecturer; but he can easily
do all the feats announced in the bills. I've seen him do them twenty times."

The dear, but infatuated old gentleman! He had never seen me do anything of the kind. He hardly
knew me by sight. He thought only of coming to the rescue of an unfortunate lecturer, prostrated
on the very threshold of his career; and a friendly hallucination made him for the moment really
believe what he said. His unpremeditated assertion must have been set down by the recording
angel on the same page with Uncle Toby's oath, and then obliterated in the same manner.

Ten days after the above-mentioned catastrophe, having engaged the largest hall in Boston,
(the Music Hall,) I delivered my lecture--in the words of the newspapers--"with éclat." The
illustrations of strength which I exhibited on the occasion, though far inferior to subsequent
efforts, were looked on as most extraordinary. The weight I lifted before the audience, with
my hands alone, was nine hundred and twenty-nine pounds. This was testified to by the City
Sealer of Weights and Measures, Mr. Moulton. My success induced me to repeat my lecture in
other places. Invitations and liberal offers poured in upon me from all directions; and during
the ensuing seasons, I lectured in Baltimore, Philadelphia, Cincinnati, Albany, and many of
the principal cities throughout the Northern States and the Canadas.

To return to my lifting experiments. I had promised my father to "stop at a thousand pounds."
In the autumn of 1859 I had reached ten hundred and thirty-two pounds. An incident now occurred
that induced me to reconsider my promise and get absolution from it. One day, while engaged
in lifting, I had a visit from two powerful-looking men who asked permission to try my weight.
One of them was five feet ten inches in height, and a hundred and ninety-two pounds in weight.
The other was fully six feet in his stockings, and two hundred and twelve pounds in weight,--a
fearful superiority in the eyes of a man, under five feet seven and weighing less than a hundred
and fifty pounds. The smaller of these men failed to lift eight of my iron disks, which, with
the connections, amounted to eight hundred and twenty-seven pounds. The larger individual fairly
lifted them at the second or third trial, but declined to attempt an increase. They left me,
and I soon, afterward heard that they were practising with a view of "outlifting Dr. Windship."

My father had incautiously remarked to me, "Those huge fellows, with a little practice, can
lift your weight and you on top of it. You can't expect to compete with giants." This decided
me to test the question whether five feet seven must necessarily yield to mere bulk in the
attainment of the maximum of human strength. I had the start of my competitors by some two
hundred pounds, and I determined to preserve that distance between us. In the autumn of that
year I advanced to lifting with the hands eleven hundred and thirty-three pounds, and in the
spring of 1860 to twelve hundred and eight. I have had no evidence that my competitors ever
got beyond a thousand pounds; though I doubt not, if they had had my leisure for practice,
they might have surpassed me.

In July, 1860, I commenced lifting by means of a padded rope over my shoulders,--my body, during
the act of lifting, being steadied and partly supported by my hands grasping a stout frame
at each side. After a few unsuccessful preliminary trials, I quickly advanced to fourteen hundred
pounds. The stretching of the rope now proved so great an annoyance, that I substituted for
it a stout leather band of double thickness, about two inches and a half wide, and which had
been subjected to a process which was calculated to render it proof against stretching more
than half an inch under any weight it was capable of sustaining. But on trial, I found, almost
to my despair, that it was of a far more yielding nature than the rope, and consequently the
rope was again brought into requisition. A few weeks of unsatisfactory practice followed, when
it occurred to me that an iron chain, inasmuch as it could not stretch, might be advantageously
used, provided it could be so padded as not to chafe my shoulders. After many experiments I
succeeded in this substitution; but the chain had yet one objection in common with the rope
and the strap, arising from the difficulty of getting it properly adjusted. I contented myself
with its use, however, until the spring of 1861, when I hit upon a contrivance which has proved
a complete success. It consists of a wooden yoke fitting across my shoulders, and having two
chains connected with it in such a manner as to enable me to lift on every occasion to the
most advantage. With this contrivance my lifting-power has advanced with mathematical certainty,
slowly, but surely, to two thousand and seven pounds, up to this twenty-third day of November,
1861.

