--Softer visions,--gentler vibrations stole sweetly in upon his slumbers;--the trumpet of war
fell out of his hands,--he took up the lute, sweet instrument! of all others the most delicate!
the most difficult!--how wilt thou touch it, my dear uncle Toby?

Chapter 3.LXXIX.

Now, because I have once or twice said, in my inconsiderate way of talking, That I was confident
the following memoirs of my uncle Toby's courtship of widow Wadman, whenever I got time to
write them, would turn out one of the most complete systems, both of the elementary and practical
part of love and love-making, that ever was addressed to the world--are you to imagine from
thence, that I shall set out with a description of what love is? whether part God and part
Devil, as Plotinus will have it--

--Or by a more critical equation, and supposing the whole of love to be as ten--to determine
with Ficinus, 'How many parts of it--the one,--and how many the other;'--or whether it is all
of it one great Devil, from head to tail, as Plato has taken upon him to pronounce; concerning
which conceit of his, I shall not offer my opinion:--but my opinion of Plato is this; that
he appears, from this instance, to have been a man of much the same temper and way of reasoning
with doctor Baynyard, who being a great enemy to blisters, as imagining that half a dozen of
'em at once, would draw a man as surely to his grave, as a herse and six--rashly concluded,
that the Devil himself was nothing in the world, but one great bouncing Cantharidis.--

I have nothing to say to people who allow themselves this monstrous liberty in arguing, but
what Nazianzen cried out (that is, polemically) to Philagrius--

'(Greek)!' O rare! 'tis fine reasoning, Sir indeed!--'(Greek)' and most nobly do you aim at
truth, when you philosophize about it in your moods and passions.

Nor is it to be imagined, for the same reason, I should stop to inquire, whether love is a
disease,--or embroil myself with Rhasis and Dioscorides, whether the seat of it is in the brain
or liver;--because this would lead me on, to an examination of the two very opposite manners,
in which patients have been treated--the one, of Aoetius, who always begun with a cooling clyster
of hempseed and bruised cucumbers;--and followed on with thin potations of water-lilies and
purslane--to which he added a pinch of snuff, of the herb Hanea;--and where Aoetius durst venture
it,--his topaz-ring.

--The other, that of Gordonius, who (in his cap. 15. de Amore) directs they should be thrashed,
'ad putorem usque,'--till they stink again.

These are disquisitions which my father, who had laid in a great stock of knowledge of this
kind, will be very busy with in the progress of my uncle Toby's affairs: I must anticipate
thus much, That from his theories of love, (with which, by the way, he contrived to crucify
my uncle Toby's mind, almost as much as his amours themselves,)--he took a single step into
practice;--and by means of a camphorated cerecloth, which he found means to impose upon the
taylor for buckram, whilst he was making my uncle Toby a new pair of breeches, he produced
Gordonius's effect upon my uncle Toby without the disgrace.

What changes this produced, will be read in its proper place: all that is needful to be added
to the anecdote, is this--That whatever effect it had upon my uncle Toby,--it had a vile effect
upon the house;--and if my uncle Toby had not smoaked it down as he did, it might have had
a vile effect upon my father too.

Chapter 3.LXXX.

--'Twill come out of itself by and bye.--All I contend for is, that I am not obliged to set
out with a definition of what love is; and so long as I can go on with my story intelligibly,
with the help of the word itself, without any other idea to it, than what I have in common
with the rest of the world, why should I differ from it a moment before the time?--When I can
get on no further,--and find myself entangled on all sides of this mystic labyrinth,--my Opinion
will then come in, in course,--and lead me out.

At present, I hope I shall be sufficiently understood, in telling the reader, my uncle Toby
fell in love:

--Not that the phrase is at all to my liking: for to say a man is fallen in love,--or that
he is deeply in love,--or up to the ears in love,--and sometimes even over head and ears in
it,--carries an idiomatical kind of implication, that love is a thing below a man:--this is
recurring again to Plato's opinion, which, with all his divinityship,--I hold to be damnable
and heretical:--and so much for that.

Let love therefore be what it will,--my uncle Toby fell into it.

--And possibly, gentle reader, with such a temptation--so wouldst thou: For never did thy eyes
behold, or thy concupiscence covet any thing in this world, more concupiscible than widow Wadman.

Chapter 3.LXXXI.

To conceive this right,--call for pen and ink--here's paper ready to your hand.--Sit down,
Sir, paint her to your own mind--as like your mistress as you can--as unlike your wife as your
conscience will let you--'tis all one to me--please but your own fancy in it.

(blank page)

--Was ever any thing in Nature so sweet!--so exquisite!

--Then, dear Sir, how could my uncle Toby resist it?

Thrice happy book! thou wilt have one page, at least, within thy covers, which Malice will
not blacken, and which Ignorance cannot misrepresent.

Chapter 3.LXXXII.

As Susannah was informed by an express from Mrs. Bridget, of my uncle Toby's falling in love
with her mistress fifteen days before it happened,--the contents of which express, Susannah
communicated to my mother the next day,--it has just given me an opportunity of entering upon
my uncle Toby's amours a fortnight before their existence.

I have an article of news to tell you, Mr. Shandy, quoth my mother, which will surprise you
greatly.--

Now my father was then holding one of his second beds of justice, and was musing within himself
about the hardships of matrimony, as my mother broke silence.--

'--My brother Toby,' quoth she, 'is going to be married to Mrs. Wadman.'

--Then he will never, quoth my father, be able to lie diagonally in his bed again as long as
he lives.

It was a consuming vexation to my father, that my mother never asked the meaning of a thing
she did not understand.

--That she is not a woman of science, my father would say--is her misfortune--but she might
ask a question.--

My mother never did.--In short, she went out of the world at last without knowing whether it
turned round, or stood still.--My father had officiously told her above a thousand times which
way it was,--but she always forgot.

For these reasons, a discourse seldom went on much further betwixt them, than a proposition,--a
reply, and a rejoinder; at the end of which, it generally took breath for a few minutes (as
in the affair of the breeches), and then went on again.

If he marries, 'twill be the worse for us,--quoth my mother.

Not a cherry-stone, said my father,--he may as well batter away his means upon that, as any
thing else,

--To be sure, said my mother: so here ended the proposition--the reply,--and the rejoinder,
I told you of.

It will be some amusement to him, too,--said my father.

A very great one, answered my mother, if he should have children.--

--Lord have mercy upon me,--said my father to himself--....

Chapter 3.LXXXIII.

I am now beginning to get fairly into my work; and by the help of a vegetable diet, with a
few of the cold seeds, I make no doubt but I shall be able to go on with my uncle Toby's story,
and my own, in a tolerable straight line. Now,

(four very squiggly lines across the page signed Inv.T.S and Scw.T.S)

These were the four lines I moved in through my first, second, third, and fourth volumes (Alluding
to the first edition.)--In the fifth volume I have been very good,--the precise line I have
described in it being this:

(one very squiggly line across the page with loops marked A,B,C,C,C,C,C,D)

By which it appears, that except at the curve, marked A. where I took a trip to Navarre,--and
the indented curve B. which is the short airing when I was there with the Lady Baussiere and
her page,--I have not taken the least frisk of a digression, till John de la Casse's devils
led me the round you see marked D.--for as for C C C C C they are nothing but parentheses,
and the common ins and outs incident to the lives of the greatest ministers of state; and when
compared with what men have done,--or with my own transgressions at the letters ABD--they vanish
into nothing.

In this last volume I have done better still--for from the end of Le Fever's episode, to the
beginning of my uncle Toby's campaigns,--I have scarce stepped a yard out of my way.

If I mend at this rate, it is not impossible--by the good leave of his grace of Benevento's
devils--but I may arrive hereafter at the excellency of going on even thus:

(straight line across the page)

which is a line drawn as straight as I could draw it, by a writing-master's ruler (borrowed
for that purpose), turning neither to the right hand or to the left.

This right line,--the path-way for Christians to walk in! say divines--

--The emblem of moral rectitude! says Cicero--

--The best line! say cabbage planters--is the shortest line, says Archimedes, which can be
drawn from one given point to another.--

I wish your ladyships would lay this matter to heart, in your next birth-day suits!

--What a journey!

Pray can you tell me,--that is, without anger, before I write my chapter upon straight lines--by
what mistake--who told them so--or how it has come to pass, that your men of wit and genius
have all along confounded this line, with the line of Gravitation?

Chapter 3.LXXXIV.

No--I think, I said, I would write two volumes every year, provided the vile cough which then
tormented me, and which to this hour I dread worse than the devil, would but give me leave--and
in another place--(but where, I can't recollect now) speaking of my book as a machine, and
laying my pen and ruler down cross-wise upon the table, in order to gain the greater credit
to it--I swore it should be kept a going at that rate these forty years, if it pleased but
the fountain of life to bless me so long with health and good spirits.

Now as for my spirits, little have I to lay to their charge--nay so very little (unless the
mounting me upon a long stick and playing the fool with me nineteen hours out of the twenty-four,
be accusations) that on the contrary, I have much--much to thank 'em for: cheerily have ye
made me tread the path of life with all the burthens of it (except its cares) upon my back;
in no one moment of my existence, that I remember, have ye once deserted me, or tinged the
objects which came in my way, either with sable, or with a sickly green; in dangers ye gilded
my horizon with hope, and when Death himself knocked at my door--ye bad him come again; and
in so gay a tone of careless indifference, did ye do it, that he doubted of his commission--

'--There must certainly be some mistake in this matter,' quoth he.

Now there is nothing in this world I abominate worse, than to be interrupted in a story--and
I was that moment telling Eugenius a most tawdry one in my way, of a nun who fancied herself
a shell-fish, and of a monk damn'd for eating a muscle, and was shewing him the grounds and
justice of the procedure--

'--Did ever so grave a personage get into so vile a scrape?' quoth Death. Thou hast had a narrow
escape, Tristram, said Eugenius, taking hold of my hand as I finished my story--

But there is no living, Eugenius, replied I, at this rate; for as this son of a whore has found
out my lodgings--

--You call him rightly, said Eugenius,--for by sin, we are told, he enter'd the world--I care
not which way he enter'd, quoth I, provided he be not in such a hurry to take me out with him--for
I have forty volumes to write, and forty thousand things to say and do which no body in the
world will say and do for me, except thyself; and as thou seest he has got me by the throat
(for Eugenius could scarce hear me speak across the table), and that I am no match for him
in the open field, had I not better, whilst these few scatter'd spirits remain, and these two
spider legs of mine (holding one of them up to him) are able to support me--had I not better,
Eugenius, fly for my life? 'Tis my advice, my dear Tristram, said Eugenius--Then by heaven!
I will lead him a dance he little thinks of--for I will gallop, quoth I, without looking once
behind me, to the banks of the Garonne; and if I hear him clattering at my heels--I'll scamper
away to mount Vesuvius--from thence to Joppa, and from Joppa to the world's end; where, if
he follows me, I pray God he may break his neck--

--He runs more risk there, said Eugenius, than thou.

Eugenius's wit and affection brought blood into the cheek from whence it had been some months
banish'd--'twas a vile moment to bid adieu in; he led me to my chaise--Allons! said I; the
post-boy gave a crack with his whip--off I went like a cannon, and in half a dozen bounds got
into Dover.

Chapter 3.LXXXV.

Now hang it! quoth I, as I look'd towards the French coast--a man should know something of
his own country too, before he goes abroad--and I never gave a peep into Rochester church,
or took notice of the dock of Chatham, or visited St. Thomas at Canterbury, though they all
three laid in my way--

--But mine, indeed, is a particular case--

So without arguing the matter further with Thomas o'Becket, or any one else--I skip'd into
the boat, and in five minutes we got under sail, and scudded away like the wind.

Pray, captain, quoth I, as I was going down into the cabin, is a man never overtaken by Death
in this passage?

Why, there is not time for a man to be sick in it, replied he--What a cursed lyar! for I am
sick as a horse, quoth I, already--what a brain!--upside down!--hey-day! the cells are broke
loose one into another, and the blood, and the lymph, and the nervous juices, with the fix'd
and volatile salts, are all jumbled into one mass--good G..! every thing turns round in it
like a thousand whirlpools--I'd give a shilling to know if I shan't write the clearer for it--

Sick! sick! sick! sick--!

--When shall we get to land? captain--they have hearts like stones--O I am deadly sick!--reach
me that thing, boy--'tis the most discomfiting sickness--I wish I was at the bottom--Madam!
how is it with you? Undone! undone! un...--O! undone! sir--What the first time?--No, 'tis the
second, third, sixth, tenth time, sir,--hey-day!--what a trampling over head!--hollo! cabin
boy! what's the matter?

The wind chopp'd about! s'Death--then I shall meet him full in the face.

What luck!--'tis chopp'd about again, master--O the devil chop it--

Captain, quoth she, for heaven's sake, let us get ashore.

Chapter 3.LXXXVI.

It is a great inconvenience to a man in a haste, that there are three distinct roads between
Calais and Paris, in behalf of which there is so much to be said by the several deputies from
the towns which lie along them, that half a day is easily lost in settling which you'll take.

First, the road by Lisle and Arras, which is the most about--but most interesting, and instructing.

The second, that by Amiens, which you may go, if you would see Chantilly--

And that by Beauvais, which you may go, if you will.

For this reason a great many chuse to go by Beauvais.

Chapter 3.LXXXVII.

'Now before I quit Calais,' a travel-writer would say, 'it would not be amiss to give some
account of it.'--Now I think it very much amiss--that a man cannot go quietly through a town
and let it alone, when it does not meddle with him, but that he must be turning about and drawing
his pen at every kennel he crosses over, merely o' my conscience for the sake of drawing it;
because, if we may judge from what has been wrote of these things, by all who have wrote and
gallop'd--or who have gallop'd and wrote, which is a different way still; or who, for more
expedition than the rest, have wrote galloping, which is the way I do at present--from the
great Addison, who did it with his satchel of school books hanging at his a..., and galling
his beast's crupper at every stroke--there is not a gallopper of us all who might not have
gone on ambling quietly in his own ground (in case he had any), and have wrote all he had to
write, dry-shod, as well as not.

For my own part, as heaven is my judge, and to which I shall ever make my last appeal--I know
no more of Calais (except the little my barber told me of it as he was whetting his razor)
than I do this moment of Grand Cairo; for it was dusky in the evening when I landed, and dark
as pitch in the morning when I set out, and yet by merely knowing what is what, and by drawing
this from that in one part of the town, and by spelling and putting this and that together
in another--I would lay any travelling odds, that I this moment write a chapter upon Calais
as long as my arm; and with so distinct and satisfactory a detail of every item, which is worth
a stranger's curiosity in the town--that you would take me for the town-clerk of Calais itself--and
where, sir, would be the wonder? was not Democritus, who laughed ten times more than I--town-clerk
of Abdera? and was not (I forget his name) who had more discretion than us both, town-clerk
of Ephesus?--it should be penn'd moreover, sir, with so much knowledge and good sense, and
truth, and precision--

--Nay--if you don't believe me, you may read the chapter for your pains.

Chapter 3.LXXXVIII.

Calais, Calatium, Calusium, Calesium.

This town, if we may trust its archives, the authority of which I see no reason to call in
question in this place--was once no more than a small village belonging to one of the first
Counts de Guignes; and as it boasts at present of no less than fourteen thousand inhabitants,
exclusive of four hundred and twenty distinct families in the basse ville, or suburbs--it must
have grown up by little and little, I suppose, to its present size.

Though there are four convents, there is but one parochial church in the whole town; I had
not an opportunity of taking its exact dimensions, but it is pretty easy to make a tolerable
conjecture of 'em--for as there are fourteen thousand inhabitants in the town, if the church
holds them all it must be considerably large--and if it will not--'tis a very great pity they
have not another--it is built in form of a cross, and dedicated to the Virgin Mary; the steeple,
which has a spire to it, is placed in the middle of the church, and stands upon four pillars
elegant and light enough, but sufficiently strong at the same time--it is decorated with eleven
altars, most of which are rather fine than beautiful. The great altar is a master-piece in
its kind; 'tis of white marble, and, as I was told, near sixty feet high--had it been much
higher, it had been as high as mount Calvary itself--therefore, I suppose it must be high enough
in all conscience.

There was nothing struck me more than the great Square; tho' I cannot say 'tis either well
paved or well built; but 'tis in the heart of the town, and most of the streets, especially
those in that quarter, all terminate in it; could there have been a fountain in all Calais,
which it seems there cannot, as such an object would have been a great ornament, it is not
to be doubted, but that the inhabitants would have had it in the very centre of this square,--not
that it is properly a square,--because 'tis forty feet longer from east to west, than from
north to south; so that the French in general have more reason on their side in calling them
Places than Squares, which, strictly speaking, to be sure, they are not.

The town-house seems to be but a sorry building, and not to be kept in the best repair; otherwise
it had been a second great ornament to this place; it answers however its destination, and
serves very well for the reception of the magistrates, who assemble in it from time to time;
so that 'tis presumable, justice is regularly distributed.

I have heard much of it, but there is nothing at all curious in the Courgain; 'tis a distinct
quarter of the town, inhabited solely by sailors and fishermen; it consists of a number of
small streets, neatly built and mostly of brick; 'tis extremely populous, but as that may be
accounted for, from the principles of their diet,--there is nothing curious in that neither.--A
traveller may see it to satisfy himself--he must not omit however taking notice of La Tour
de Guet, upon any account; 'tis so called from its particular destination, because in war it
serves to discover and give notice of the enemies which approach the place, either by sea or
land;--but 'tis monstrous high, and catches the eye so continually, you cannot avoid taking
notice of it if you would.

It was a singular disappointment to me, that I could not have permission to take an exact survey
of the fortifications, which are the strongest in the world, and which, from first to last,
that is, for the time they were set about by Philip of France, Count of Bologne, to the present
war, wherein many reparations were made, have cost (as I learned afterwards from an engineer
in Gascony)--above a hundred millions of livres. It is very remarkable, that at the Tete de
Gravelenes, and where the town is naturally the weakest, they have expended the most money;
so that the outworks stretch a great way into the campaign, and consequently occupy a large
tract of ground--However, after all that is said and done, it must be acknowledged that Calais
was never upon any account so considerable from itself, as from its situation, and that easy
entrance which it gave our ancestors, upon all occasions, into France: it was not without its
inconveniences also; being no less troublesome to the English in those times, than Dunkirk
has been to us, in ours; so that it was deservedly looked upon as the key to both kingdoms,
which no doubt is the reason that there have arisen so many contentions who should keep it:
of these, the siege of Calais, or rather the blockade (for it was shut up both by land and
sea), was the most memorable, as it with-stood the efforts of Edward the Third a whole year,
and was not terminated at last but by famine and extreme misery; the gallantry of Eustace de
St. Pierre, who first offered himself a victim for his fellow-citizens, has rank'd his name
with heroes. As it will not take up above fifty pages, it would be injustice to the reader,
not to give him a minute account of that romantic transaction, as well as of the siege itself,
in Rapin's own words:

Chapter 3.LXXXIX.

--But courage! gentle reader!--I scorn it--'tis enough to have thee in my power--but to make
use of the advantage which the fortune of the pen has now gained over thee, would be too much--No--!
by that all-powerful fire which warms the visionary brain, and lights the spirits through unworldly
tracts! ere I would force a helpless creature upon this hard service, and make thee pay, poor
soul! for fifty pages, which I have no right to sell thee,--naked as I am, I would browse upon
the mountains, and smile that the north wind brought me neither my tent or my supper.

--So put on, my brave boy! and make the best of thy way to Boulogne.

Chapter 3.XC.

Boulogne!--hah!--so we are all got together--debtors and sinners before heaven; a jolly set
of us--but I can't stay and quaff it off with you--I'm pursued myself like a hundred devils,
and shall be overtaken, before I can well change horses:--for heaven's sake, make haste--'Tis
for high-treason, quoth a very little man, whispering as low as he could to a very tall man,
that stood next him--Or else for murder; quoth the tall man--Well thrown, Size-ace! quoth I.
No; quoth a third, the gentleman has been committing--

Ah! ma chere fille! said I, as she tripp'd by from her matins--you look as rosy as the morning
(for the sun was rising, and it made the compliment the more gracious)--No; it can't be that,
quoth a fourth--(she made a curt'sy to me--I kiss'd my hand) 'tis debt, continued he: 'Tis
certainly for debt; quoth a fifth; I would not pay that gentleman's debts, quoth Ace, for a
thousand pounds; nor would I, quoth Size, for six times the sum--Well thrown, Size-ace, again!
quoth I;--but I have no debt but the debt of Nature, and I want but patience of her, and I
will pay her every farthing I owe her--How can you be so hard-hearted, Madam, to arrest a poor
traveller going along without molestation to any one upon his lawful occasions? do stop that
death-looking, long-striding scoundrel of a scare-sinner, who is posting after me--he never
would have followed me but for you--if it be but for a stage or two, just to give me start
of him, I beseech you, madam--do, dear lady--

--Now, in troth, 'tis a great pity, quoth mine Irish host, that all this good courtship should
be lost; for the young gentlewoman has been after going out of hearing of it all along.--

--Simpleton! quoth I.

--So you have nothing else in Boulogne worth seeing?

--By Jasus! there is the finest Seminary for the Humanities--

--There cannot be a finer; quoth I.

Chapter 3.XCI.

When the precipitancy of a man's wishes hurries on his ideas ninety times faster than the vehicle
he rides in--woe be to truth! and woe be to the vehicle and its tackling (let 'em be made of
what stuff you will) upon which he breathes forth the disappointment of his soul!

As I never give general characters either of men or things in choler, 'the most haste the worse
speed,' was all the reflection I made upon the affair, the first time it happen'd;--the second,
third, fourth, and fifth time, I confined it respectively to those times, and accordingly blamed
only the second, third, fourth, and fifth post-boy for it, without carrying my reflections
further; but the event continuing to befal me from the fifth, to the sixth, seventh, eighth,
ninth, and tenth time, and without one exception, I then could not avoid making a national
reflection of it, which I do in these words;

That something is always wrong in a French post-chaise, upon first setting out.

Or the proposition may stand thus:

A French postilion has always to alight before he has got three hundred yards out of town.

What's wrong now?--Diable!--a rope's broke!--a knot has slipt!--a staple's drawn!--a bolt's
to whittle!--a tag, a rag, a jag, a strap, a buckle, or a buckle's tongue, want altering.

Now true as all this is, I never think myself impowered to excommunicate thereupon either the
post-chaise, or its driver--nor do I take it into my head to swear by the living G.., I would
rather go a-foot ten thousand times--or that I will be damn'd, if ever I get into another--but
I take the matter coolly before me, and consider, that some tag, or rag, or jag, or bolt, or
buckle, or buckle's tongue, will ever be a wanting or want altering, travel where I will--so
I never chaff, but take the good and the bad as they fall in my road, and get on:--Do so, my
lad! said I; he had lost five minutes already, in alighting in order to get at a luncheon of
black bread, which he had cramm'd into the chaise-pocket, and was remounted, and going leisurely
on, to relish it the better.--Get on, my lad, said I, briskly--but in the most persuasive tone
imaginable, for I jingled a four-and-twenty sous piece against the glass, taking care to hold
the flat side towards him, as he look'd back: the dog grinn'd intelligence from his right ear
to his left, and behind his sooty muzzle discovered such a pearly row of teeth, that Sovereignty
would have pawn'd her jewels for them.

Just heaven! What masticators!--/What bread--!

and so as he finished the last mouthful of it, we entered the town of Montreuil.

Chapter 3.XCII.

There is not a town in all France which, in my opinion, looks better in the map, than Montreuil;--I
own, it does not look so well in the book of post-roads; but when you come to see it--to be
sure it looks most pitifully.

There is one thing, however, in it at present very handsome; and that is, the inn-keeper's
daughter: She has been eighteen months at Amiens, and six at Paris, in going through her classes;
so knits, and sews, and dances, and does the little coquetries very well.--

--A slut! in running them over within these five minutes that I have stood looking at her,
she has let fall at least a dozen loops in a white thread stocking--yes, yes--I see, you cunning
gipsy!--'tis long and taper--you need not pin it to your knee--and that 'tis your own--and
fits you exactly.--

--That Nature should have told this creature a word about a statue's thumb!

--But as this sample is worth all their thumbs--besides, I have her thumbs and fingers in at
the bargain, if they can be any guide to me,--and as Janatone withal (for that is her name)
stands so well for a drawing--may I never draw more, or rather may I draw like a draught-horse,
by main strength all the days of my life,--if I do not draw her in all her proportions, and
with as determined a pencil, as if I had her in the wettest drapery.--

--But your worships chuse rather that I give you the length, breadth, and perpendicular height
of the great parish-church, or drawing of the facade of the abbey of Saint Austreberte which
has been transported from Artois hither--every thing is just I suppose as the masons and carpenters
left them,--and if the belief in Christ continues so long, will be so these fifty years to
come--so your worships and reverences may all measure them at your leisures--but he who measures
thee, Janatone, must do it now--thou carriest the principles of change within thy frame; and
considering the chances of a transitory life, I would not answer for thee a moment; ere twice
twelve months are passed and gone, thou mayest grow out like a pumpkin, and lose thy shapes--or
thou mayest go off like a flower, and lose thy beauty--nay, thou mayest go off like a hussy--and
lose thyself.--I would not answer for my aunt Dinah, was she alive--'faith, scarce for her
picture--were it but painted by Reynolds--

But if I go on with my drawing, after naming that son of Apollo, I'll be shot--

So you must e'en be content with the original; which, if the evening is fine in passing thro'
Montreuil, you will see at your chaise-door, as you change horses: but unless you have as bad
a reason for haste as I have--you had better stop:--She has a little of the devote: but that,
sir, is a terce to a nine in your favour-- -L... help me! I could not count a single point:
so had been piqued and repiqued, and capotted to the devil.

Chapter 3.XCIII.

All which being considered, and that Death moreover might be much nearer me than I imagined--I
wish I was at Abbeville, quoth I, were it only to see how they card and spin--so off we set.

  (Vid. Book of French post-roads, page 36. edition of 1762.)
  de Montreuil a Nampont-  poste et demi
  de Nampont a Bernay ---  poste
  de Bernay a Nouvion ---  poste
  de Nouvion a Abbeville   poste
  --but the carders and spinners were all gone to bed.

Chapter 3.XCIV.

What a vast advantage is travelling! only it heats one; but there is a remedy for that, which
you may pick out of the next chapter.

Chapter 3.XCV.

Was I in a condition to stipulate with Death, as I am this moment with my apothecary, how and
where I will take his clyster--I should certainly declare against submitting to it before my
friends; and therefore I never seriously think upon the mode and manner of this great catastrophe,
which generally takes up and torments my thoughts as much as the catastrophe itself; but I
constantly draw the curtain across it with this wish, that the Disposer of all things may so
order it, that it happen not to me in my own house--but rather in some decent inn--at home,
I know it,--the concern of my friends, and the last services of wiping my brows, and smoothing
my pillow, which the quivering hand of pale affection shall pay me, will so crucify my soul,
that I shall die of a distemper which my physician is not aware of: but in an inn, the few
cold offices I wanted, would be purchased with a few guineas, and paid me with an undisturbed,
but punctual attention--but mark. This inn should not be the inn at Abbeville--if there was
not another inn in the universe, I would strike that inn out of the capitulation: so

Let the horses be in the chaise exactly by four in the morning--Yes, by four, Sir,--or by Genevieve!
I'll raise a clatter in the house shall wake the dead.

Chapter 3.XCVI.

'Make them like unto a wheel,' is a bitter sarcasm, as all the learned know, against the grand
tour, and that restless spirit for making it, which David prophetically foresaw would haunt
the children of men in the latter days; and therefore, as thinketh the great bishop Hall, 'tis
one of the severest imprecations which David ever utter'd against the enemies of the Lord--and,
as if he had said, 'I wish them no worse luck than always to be rolling about.'--So much motion,
continues he (for he was very corpulent)--is so much unquietness; and so much of rest, by the
same analogy, is so much of heaven.

Now, I (being very thin) think differently; and that so much of motion, is so much of life,
and so much of joy--and that to stand still, or get on but slowly, is death and the devil--

Hollo! Ho!--the whole world's asleep!--bring out the horses--grease the wheels--tie on the
mail--and drive a nail into that moulding--I'll not lose a moment--

Now the wheel we are talking of, and whereinto (but not whereonto, for that would make an Ixion's
wheel of it) he curseth his enemies, according to the bishop's habit of body, should certainly
be a post-chaise wheel, whether they were set up in Palestine at that time or not--and my wheel,
for the contrary reasons, must as certainly be a cart-wheel groaning round its revolution once
in an age; and of which sort, were I to turn commentator, I should make no scruple to affirm,
they had great store in that hilly country.

I love the Pythagoreans (much more than ever I dare tell my dear Jenny) for their '(Greek)'--(their)
'getting out of the body, in order to think well.' No man thinks right, whilst he is in it;
blinded as he must be, with his congenial humours, and drawn differently aside, as the bishop
and myself have been, with too lax or too tense a fibre--Reason is, half of it, Sense; and
the measure of heaven itself is but the measure of our present appetites and concoctions.--

--But which of the two, in the present case, do you think to be mostly in the wrong?

You, certainly: quoth she, to disturb a whole family so early.

Chapter 3.XCVII.

--But she did not know I was under a vow not to shave my beard till I got to Paris;--yet I
hate to make mysteries of nothing;--'tis the cold cautiousness of one of those little souls
from which Lessius (lib. 13. de moribus divinis, cap. 24.) hath made his estimate, wherein
he setteth forth, That one Dutch mile, cubically multiplied, will allow room enough, and to
spare, for eight hundred thousand millions, which he supposes to be as great a number of souls
(counting from the fall of Adam) as can possibly be damn'd to the end of the world.

From what he has made this second estimate--unless from the parental goodness of God--I don't
know--I am much more at a loss what could be in Franciscus Ribbera's head, who pretends that
no less a space than one of two hundred Italian miles multiplied into itself, will be sufficient
to hold the like number--he certainly must have gone upon some of the old Roman souls, of which
he had read, without reflecting how much, by a gradual and most tabid decline, in the course
of eighteen hundred years, they must unavoidably have shrunk so as to have come, when he wrote,
almost to nothing.

In Lessius's time, who seems the cooler man, they were as little as can be imagined--

--We find them less now--

And next winter we shall find them less again; so that if we go on from little to less, and
from less to nothing, I hesitate not one moment to affirm, that in half a century at this rate,
we shall have no souls at all; which being the period beyond which I doubt likewise of the
existence of the Christian faith, 'twill be one advantage that both of 'em will be exactly
worn out together.

Blessed Jupiter! and blessed every other heathen god and goddess! for now ye will all come
into play again, and with Priapus at your tails--what jovial times!--but where am I? and into
what a delicious riot of things am I rushing? I--I who must be cut short in the midst of my
days, and taste no more of 'em than what I borrow from my imagination--peace to thee, generous
fool! and let me go on.

Chapter 3.XCVIII.

--'So hating, I say, to make mysteries of nothing'--I intrusted it with the post-boy, as soon
as ever I got off the stones; he gave a crack with his whip to balance the compliment; and
with the thill-horse trotting, and a sort of an up and a down of the other, we danced it along
to Ailly au clochers, famed in days of yore for the finest chimes in the world; but we danced
through it without music--the chimes being greatly out of order--(as in truth they were through
all France).

And so making all possible speed, from

Ailly au clochers, I got to Hixcourt, from Hixcourt I got to Pequignay, and from Pequignay,
I got to Amiens, concerning which town I have nothing to inform you, but what I have informed
you once before--and that was--that Janatone went there to school.

Chapter 3.XCIX.

In the whole catalogue of those whiffling vexations which come puffing across a man's canvass,
there is not one of a more teasing and tormenting nature, than this particular one which I
am going to describe--and for which (unless you travel with an avance-courier, which numbers
do in order to prevent it)--there is no help: and it is this.

That be you in never so kindly a propensity to sleep--though you are passing perhaps through
the finest country--upon the best roads, and in the easiest carriage for doing it in the world--nay,
was you sure you could sleep fifty miles straight forwards, without once opening your eyes--nay,
what is more, was you as demonstratively satisfied as you can be of any truth in Euclid, that
you should upon all accounts be full as well asleep as awake--nay, perhaps better--Yet the
incessant returns of paying for the horses at every stage,--with the necessity thereupon of
putting your hand into your pocket, and counting out from thence three livres fifteen sous
(sous by sous), puts an end to so much of the project, that you cannot execute above six miles
of it (or supposing it is a post and a half, that is but nine)--were it to save your soul from
destruction.

--I'll be even with 'em, quoth I, for I'll put the precise sum into a piece of paper, and hold
it ready in my hand all the way: 'Now I shall have nothing to do,' said I (composing myself
to rest), 'but to drop this gently into the post-boy's hat, and not say a word.'--Then there
wants two sous more to drink--or there is a twelve sous piece of Louis XIV. which will not
pass--or a livre and some odd liards to be brought over from the last stage, which Monsieur
had forgot; which altercations (as a man cannot dispute very well asleep) rouse him: still
is sweet sleep retrievable; and still might the flesh weigh down the spirit, and recover itself
of these blows--but then, by heaven! you have paid but for a single post--whereas 'tis a post
and a half; and this obliges you to pull out your book of post-roads, the print of which is
so very small, it forces you to open your eyes, whether you will or no: Then Monsieur le Cure
offers you a pinch of snuff--or a poor soldier shews you his leg--or a shaveling his box--or
the priestesse of the cistern will water your wheels--they do not want it--but she swears by
her priesthood (throwing it back) that they do:--then you have all these points to argue, or
consider over in your mind; in doing of which, the rational powers get so thoroughly awakened--you
may get 'em to sleep again as you can.

It was entirely owing to one of these misfortunes, or I had pass'd clean by the stables of
Chantilly--

--But the postillion first affirming, and then persisting in it to my face, that there was
no mark upon the two sous piece, I open'd my eyes to be convinced--and seeing the mark upon
it as plain as my nose--I leap'd out of the chaise in a passion, and so saw every thing at
Chantilly in spite.--I tried it but for three posts and a half, but believe 'tis the best principle
in the world to travel speedily upon; for as few objects look very inviting in that mood--you
have little or nothing to stop you; by which means it was that I passed through St. Dennis,
without turning my head so much as on one side towards the Abby--

--Richness of their treasury! stuff and nonsense!--bating their jewels, which are all false,
I would not give three sous for any one thing in it, but Jaidas's lantern--nor for that either,
only as it grows dark, it might be of use.

Ha!--and no one gives the wall!--but in the School of Urbanity herself, if the walls are besh..t--how
can you do otherwise?

And prithee when do they light the lamps? What?--never in the summer months!--Ho! 'tis the
time of sallads.--O rare! sallad and soup--soup and sallad--sallad and soup, encore--

--'Tis too much for sinners.

Now I cannot bear the barbarity of it; how can that unconscionable coachman talk so much bawdy
to that lean horse? don't you see, friend, the streets are so villanously narrow, that there
is not room in all Paris to turn a wheelbarrow? In the grandest city of the whole world, it
would not have been amiss, if they had been left a thought wider; nay, were it only so much
in every single street, as that a man might know (was it only for satisfaction) on which side
of it he was walking.

One--two--three--four--five--six--seven--eight--nine--ten.--Ten cooks shops! and twice the
number of barbers! and all within three minutes driving! one would think that all the cooks
in the world, on some great merry-meeting with the barbers, by joint consent had said--Come,
let us all go live at Paris: the French love good eating--they are all gourmands--we shall
rank high; if their god is their belly--their cooks must be gentlemen: and forasmuch as the
periwig maketh the man, and the periwig-maker maketh the periwig--ergo, would the barbers say,
we shall rank higher still--we shall be above you all--we shall be Capitouls (Chief Magistrate
in Toulouse, &c. &c. &c.) at least--pardi! we shall all wear swords--

--And so, one would swear, (that is, by candle-light,--but there is no depending upon it,)
they continued to do, to this day.

Chapter 3.CI.

The French are certainly misunderstood:--but whether the fault is theirs, in not sufficiently
explaining themselves; or speaking with that exact limitation and precision which one would
expect on a point of such importance, and which, moreover, is so likely to be contested by
us--or whether the fault may not be altogether on our side, in not understanding their language
always so critically as to know 'what they would be at'--I shall not decide; but 'tis evident
to me, when they affirm, 'That they who have seen Paris, have seen every thing,' they must
mean to speak of those who have seen it by day-light.

As for candle-light--I give it up--I have said before, there was no depending upon it--and
I repeat it again; but not because the lights and shades are too sharp--or the tints confounded--or
that there is neither beauty or keeping, &c....for that's not truth--but it is an uncertain
light in this respect, That in all the five hundred grand Hotels, which they number up to you
in Paris--and the five hundred good things, at a modest computation (for 'tis only allowing
one good thing to a Hotel), which by candle-light are best to be seen, felt, heard, and understood
(which, by the bye, is a quotation from Lilly)--the devil a one of us out of fifty, can get
our heads fairly thrust in amongst them.

This is no part of the French computation: 'tis simply this,

That by the last survey taken in the year one thousand seven hundred and sixteen, since which
time there have been considerable augmentations, Paris doth contain nine hundred streets; (viz)

  In the quarter called the City--there are fifty-three streets.
  In St. James of the Shambles, fifty-five streets.
  In St. Oportune, thirty-four streets.
  In the quarter of the Louvre, twenty-five streets.
  In the Palace Royal, or St. Honorius, forty-nine streets.
  In Mont. Martyr, forty-one streets.
  In St. Eustace, twenty-nine streets.
  In the Halles, twenty-seven streets.
  In St. Dennis, fifty-five streets.
  In St. Martin, fifty-four streets.
  In St. Paul, or the Mortellerie, twenty-seven streets.
  The Greve, thirty-eight streets.
  In St. Avoy, or the Verrerie, nineteen streets.
  In the Marais, or the Temple, fifty-two streets.
  In St. Antony's, sixty-eight streets.
  In the Place Maubert, eighty-one streets.
  In St. Bennet, sixty streets.
  In St. Andrews de Arcs, fifty-one streets.
  In the quarter of the Luxembourg, sixty-two streets.

And in that of St. Germain, fifty-five streets, into any of which you may walk; and that when
you have seen them with all that belongs to them, fairly by day-light--their gates, their bridges,
their squares, their statues...and have crusaded it moreover, through all their parish-churches,
by no means omitting St. Roche and Sulpice...and to crown all, have taken a walk to the four
palaces, which you may see, either with or without the statues and pictures, just as you chuse--

--Then you will have seen--

--but 'tis what no one needeth to tell you, for you will read of it yourself upon the portico
of the Louvre, in these words,

     Earth No Such Folks!--No Folks E'er Such A Town
     As Paris Is!--Sing, Derry, Derry, Down.
     (Non orbis gentem, non urbem gens habet ullam
     --ulla parem.)

The French have a gay way of treating every thing that is Great; and that is all can be said
upon it.

Chapter 3.CII.

In mentioning the word gay (as in the close of the last chapter) it puts one (i.e. an author)
in mind of the word spleen--especially if he has any thing to say upon it: not that by any
analysis--or that from any table of interest or genealogy, there appears much more ground of
alliance betwixt them, than betwixt light and darkness, or any two of the most unfriendly opposites
in nature--only 'tis an undercraft of authors to keep up a good understanding amongst words,
as politicians do amongst men--not knowing how near they may be under a necessity of placing
them to each other--which point being now gain'd, and that I may place mine exactly to my mind,
I write it down here--

Spleen.

This, upon leaving Chantilly, I declared to be the best principle in the world to travel speedily
upon; but I gave it only as matter of opinion.

     Non enim excursus hic ejus, sed opus ipsum est.

     Plin. Lib. V. Epist. 6.

     Si quid urbaniuscule lusum a nobis, per Musas et Charitas et
     omnium poetarum Numina, Oro te, ne me male capias.

A Dedication to a Great Man.

Having, a priori, intended to dedicate The Amours of my Uncle Toby to Mr. ...--I see more reasons,
a posteriori, for doing it to Lord........

I should lament from my soul, if this exposed me to the jealousy of their Reverences; because
a posteriori, in Court-latin, signifies the kissing hands for preferment--or any thing else--in
order to get it.

My opinion of Lord....... is neither better nor worse, than it was of Mr. .... Honours, like
impressions upon coin, may give an ideal and local value to a bit of base metal; but Gold and
Silver will pass all the world over without any other recommendation than their own weight.

The same good-will that made me think of offering up half an hour's amusement to Mr.... when
out of place--operates more forcibly at present, as half an hour's amusement will be more serviceable
and refreshing after labour and sorrow, than after a philosophical repast.

Nothing is so perfectly amusement as a total change of ideas; no ideas are so totally different
as those of Ministers, and innocent Lovers: for which reason, when I come to talk of Statesmen
and Patriots, and set such marks upon them as will prevent confusion and mistakes concerning
them for the future--I propose to dedicate that Volume to some gentle Shepherd,

     Whose thoughts proud Science never taught to stray,
     Far as the Statesman's walk or Patriot-way;
     Yet simple Nature to his hopes had given
     Out of a cloud-capp'd head a humbler heaven;
     Some untam'd World in depths of wood embraced--
     Some happier Island in the wat'ry-waste--
     And where admitted to that equal sky,
     His faithful Dogs should bear him company.

In a word, by thus introducing an entire new set of objects to his Imagination, I shall unavoidably
give a Diversion to his passionate and love-sick Contemplations. In the mean time,

I am

The Author.

Chapter 4.I.

Now I hate to hear a person, especially if he be a traveller, complain that we do not get on
so fast in France as we do in England; whereas we get on much faster, consideratis considerandis;
thereby always meaning, that if you weigh their vehicles with the mountains of baggage which
you lay both before and behind upon them--and then consider their puny horses, with the very
little they give them--'tis a wonder they get on at all: their suffering is most unchristian,
and 'tis evident thereupon to me, that a French post-horse would not know what in the world
to do, was it not for the two words...... and...... in which there is as much sustenance, as
if you give him a peck of corn: now as these words cost nothing, I long from my soul to tell
the reader what they are; but here is the question--they must be told him plainly, and with
the most distinct articulation, or it will answer no end--and yet to do it in that plain way--though
their reverences may laugh at it in the bed-chamber--full well I wot, they will abuse it in
the parlour: for which cause, I have been volving and revolving in my fancy some time, but
to no purpose, by what clean device or facette contrivance I might so modulate them, that whilst
I satisfy that ear which the reader chuses to lend me--I might not dissatisfy the other which
he keeps to himself.

--My ink burns my finger to try--and when I have--'twill have a worse consequence--It will
burn (I fear) my paper.

--No;--I dare not--

But if you wish to know how the abbess of Andouillets and a novice of her convent got over
the difficulty (only first wishing myself all imaginable success)--I'll tell you without the
least scruple.

Chapter 4.II.

The abbess of Andouillets, which if you look into the large set of provincial maps now publishing
at Paris, you will find situated amongst the hills which divide Burgundy from Savoy, being
in danger of an Anchylosis or stiff joint (the sinovia of her knee becoming hard by long matins),
and having tried every remedy--first, prayers and thanksgiving; then invocations to all the
saints in heaven promiscuously--then particularly to every saint who had ever had a stiff leg
before her--then touching it with all the reliques of the convent, principally with the thigh-bone
of the man of Lystra, who had been impotent from his youth--then wrapping it up in her veil
when she went to bed--then cross-wise her rosary--then bringing in to her aid the secular arm,
and anointing it with oils and hot fat of animals--then treating it with emollient and resolving
fomentations--then with poultices of marsh-mallows, mallows, bonus Henricus, white lillies
and fenugreek--then taking the woods, I mean the smoak of 'em, holding her scapulary across
her lap--then decoctions of wild chicory, water-cresses, chervil, sweet cecily and cochlearia--and
nothing all this while answering, was prevailed on at last to try the hot-baths of Bourbon--so
having first obtained leave of the visitor-general to take care of her existence--she ordered
all to be got ready for her journey: a novice of the convent of about seventeen, who had been
troubled with a whitloe in her middle finger, by sticking it constantly into the abbess's cast
poultices, &c.--had gained such an interest, that overlooking a sciatical old nun, who might
have been set up for ever by the hot-baths of Bourbon, Margarita, the little novice, was elected
as the companion of the journey.

An old calesh, belonging to the abbesse, lined with green frize, was ordered to be drawn out
into the sun--the gardener of the convent being chosen muleteer, led out the two old mules,
to clip the hair from the rump-ends of their tails, whilst a couple of lay-sisters were busied,
the one in darning the lining, and the other in sewing on the shreds of yellow binding, which
the teeth of time had unravelled--the under-gardener dress'd the muleteer's hat in hot wine-lees--and
a taylor sat musically at it, in a shed over-against the convent, in assorting four dozen of
bells for the harness, whistling to each bell, as he tied it on with a thong.--

--The carpenter and the smith of Andouillets held a council of wheels; and by seven, the morning
after, all look'd spruce, and was ready at the gate of the convent for the hot-baths of Bourbon--two
rows of the unfortunate stood ready there an hour before.

The abbess of Andouillets, supported by Margarita the novice, advanced slowly to the calesh,
both clad in white, with their black rosaries hanging at their breasts--

--There was a simple solemnity in the contrast: they entered the calesh; the nuns in the same
uniform, sweet emblem of innocence, each occupied a window, and as the abbess and Margarita
look'd up--each (the sciatical poor nun excepted)--each stream'd out the end of her veil in
the air--then kiss'd the lilly hand which let it go: the good abbess and Margarita laid their
hands saint-wise upon their breasts--look'd up to heaven--then to them--and look'd 'God bless
you, dear sisters.'

I declare I am interested in this story, and wish I had been there.

The gardener, whom I shall now call the muleteer, was a little, hearty, broad-set, good-natured,
chattering, toping kind of a fellow, who troubled his head very little with the hows and whens
of life; so had mortgaged a month of his conventical wages in a borrachio, or leathern cask
of wine, which he had disposed behind the calesh, with a large russet-coloured riding-coat
over it, to guard it from the sun; and as the weather was hot, and he not a niggard of his
labours, walking ten times more than he rode--he found more occasions than those of nature,
to fall back to the rear of his carriage; till by frequent coming and going, it had so happen'd,
that all his wine had leak'd out at the legal vent of the borrachio, before one half of the
journey was finish'd.

Man is a creature born to habitudes. The day had been sultry--the evening was delicious--the
wine was generous--the Burgundian hill on which it grew was steep--a little tempting bush over
the door of a cool cottage at the foot of it, hung vibrating in full harmony with the passions--a
gentle air rustled distinctly through the leaves--'Come--come, thirsty muleteer,--come in.'

--The muleteer was a son of Adam, I need not say a word more. He gave the mules, each of 'em,
a sound lash, and looking in the abbess's and Margarita's faces (as he did it)--as much as
to say 'here I am'--he gave a second good crack--as much as to say to his mules, 'get on'--so
slinking behind, he enter'd the little inn at the foot of the hill.

The muleteer, as I told you, was a little, joyous, chirping fellow, who thought not of to-morrow,
nor of what had gone before, or what was to follow it, provided he got but his scantling of
Burgundy, and a little chit-chat along with it; so entering into a long conversation, as how
he was chief gardener to the convent of Andouillets, &c. &c. and out of friendship for the
abbess and Mademoiselle Margarita, who was only in her noviciate, he had come along with them
from the confines of Savoy, &c. &c.--and as how she had got a white swelling by her devotions--and
what a nation of herbs he had procured to mollify her humours, &c. &c. and that if the waters
of Bourbon did not mend that leg--she might as well be lame of both--&c. &c. &c.--He so contrived
his story, as absolutely to forget the heroine of it--and with her the little novice, and what
was a more ticklish point to be forgot than both--the two mules; who being creatures that take
advantage of the world, inasmuch as their parents took it of them--and they not being in a
condition to return the obligation downwards (as men and women and beasts are)--they do it
side-ways, and long-ways, and back-ways--and up hill, and down hill, and which way they can.--Philosophers,
with all their ethicks, have never considered this rightly--how should the poor muleteer, then
in his cups, consider it at all? he did not in the least--'tis time we do; let us leave him
then in the vortex of his element, the happiest and most thoughtless of mortal men--and for
a moment let us look after the mules, the abbess, and Margarita.

By virtue of the muleteer's two last strokes the mules had gone quietly on, following their
own consciences up the hill, till they had conquer'd about one half of it; when the elder of
them, a shrewd crafty old devil, at the turn of an angle, giving a side glance, and no muleteer
behind them,--

By my fig! said she, swearing, I'll go no further--And if I do, replied the other, they shall
make a drum of my hide.--

And so with one consent they stopp'd thus--

Chapter 4.III.

--Get on with you, said the abbess.

--Wh...ysh--ysh--cried Margarita.

Sh...a--shu..u--shu..u--sh..aw--shaw'd the abbess.

--Whu--v--w--whew--w--w--whuv'd Margarita, pursing up her sweet lips betwixt a hoot and a whistle.

Thump--thump--thump--obstreperated the abbess of Andouillets with the end of her gold-headed
cane against the bottom of the calesh--

The old mule let a f...

Chapter 4.IV.

We are ruin'd and undone, my child, said the abbess to Margarita,--we shall be here all night--we
shall be plunder'd--we shall be ravished--

--We shall be ravish'd, said Margarita, as sure as a gun.

Sancta Maria! cried the abbess (forgetting the O!)--why was I govern'd by this wicked stiff
joint? why did I leave the convent of Andouillets? and why didst thou not suffer thy servant
to go unpolluted to her tomb?

O my finger! my finger! cried the novice, catching fire at the word servant--why was I not
content to put it here, or there, any where rather than be in this strait?

Strait! said the abbess.

Strait--said the novice; for terror had struck their understandings--the one knew not what
she said--the other what she answer'd.

O my virginity! virginity! cried the abbess.

...inity!...inity! said the novice, sobbing.

Chapter 4.V.

My dear mother, quoth the novice, coming a little to herself,--there are two certain words,
which I have been told will force any horse, or ass, or mule, to go up a hill whether he will
or no; be he never so obstinate or ill-will'd, the moment he hears them utter'd, he obeys.
They are words magic! cried the abbess in the utmost horror--No; replied Margarita calmly--but
they are words sinful--What are they? quoth the abbess, interrupting her: They are sinful in
the first degree, answered Margarita,--they are mortal--and if we are ravished and die unabsolved
of them, we shall both-but you may pronounce them to me, quoth the abbess of Andouillets--They
cannot, my dear mother, said the novice, be pronounced at all; they will make all the blood
in one's body fly up into one's face--But you may whisper them in my ear, quoth the abbess.

Heaven! hadst thou no guardian angel to delegate to the inn at the bottom of the hill? was
there no generous and friendly spirit unemployed--no agent in nature, by some monitory shivering,
creeping along the artery which led to his heart, to rouse the muleteer from his banquet?--no
sweet minstrelsy to bring back the fair idea of the abbess and Margarita, with their black
rosaries!

Rouse! rouse!--but 'tis too late--the horrid words are pronounced this moment--

--and how to tell them--Ye, who can speak of every thing existing, with unpolluted lips--instruct
me--guide me--

Chapter 4.VI.

All sins whatever, quoth the abbess, turning casuist in the distress they were under, are held
by the confessor of our convent to be either mortal or venial: there is no further division.
Now a venial sin being the slightest and least of all sins--being halved--by taking either
only the half of it, and leaving the rest--or, by taking it all, and amicably halving it betwixt
yourself and another person--in course becomes diluted into no sin at all.

Now I see no sin in saying, bou, bou, bou, bou, bou, a hundred times together; nor is there
any turpitude in pronouncing the syllable ger, ger, ger, ger, ger, were it from our matins
to our vespers: Therefore, my dear daughter, continued the abbess of Andouillets--I will say
bou, and thou shalt say ger; and then alternately, as there is no more sin in fou than in bou--Thou
shalt say fou--and I will come in (like fa, sol, la, re, mi, ut, at our complines) with ter.
And accordingly the abbess, giving the pitch note, set off thus:

     Abbess,.....)  Bou...bou...bou..
     Margarita,..)  ---ger,..ger,..ger.

     Margarita,..)  Fou...fou...fou..
     Abbess,.....)  ---ter,..ter,..ter.

The two mules acknowledged the notes by a mutual lash of their tails; but it went no further--'Twill
answer by an' by, said the novice.

     Abbess,.....)  Bou.  bou.  bou.  bou.  bou.  bou.
     Margarita,..)  ---ger,  ger,  ger,  ger,  ger,  ger.

Quicker still, cried Margarita.

Quicker still, cried Margarita.

Quicker still--God preserve me; said the abbess--They do not understand us, cried Margarita--But
the Devil does, said the abbess of Andouillets.

Chapter 4.VII.

What a tract of country have I run!--how many degrees nearer to the warm sun am I advanced,
and how many fair and goodly cities have I seen, during the time you have been reading and
reflecting, Madam, upon this story! There's Fontainbleau, and Sens, and Joigny, and Auxerre,
and Dijon the capital of Burgundy, and Challon, and Macon the capital of the Maconese, and
a score more upon the road to Lyons--and now I have run them over--I might as well talk to
you of so many market towns in the moon, as tell you one word about them: it will be this chapter
at the least, if not both this and the next entirely lost, do what I will--

--Why, 'tis a strange story! Tristram.

Alas! Madam, had it been upon some melancholy lecture of the cross--the peace of meekness,
or the contentment of resignation--I had not been incommoded: or had I thought of writing it
upon the purer abstractions of the soul, and that food of wisdom and holiness and contemplation,
upon which the spirit of man (when separated from the body) is to subsist for ever--You would
have come with a better appetite from it--

--I wish I never had wrote it: but as I never blot any thing out--let us use some honest means
to get it out of our heads directly.

--Pray reach me my fool's cap--I fear you sit upon it, Madam--'tis under the cushion--I'll
put it on--

Bless me! you have had it upon your head this half hour.--There then let it stay, with a

     Fa-ra diddle di
     and a fa-ri diddle d
     and a high-dum--dye-dum
     fiddle...dumb-c.

And now, Madam, we may venture, I hope a little to go on.

Chapter 4.VIII.

--All you need say of Fontainbleau (in case you are ask'd) is, that it stands about forty miles
(south something) from Paris, in the middle of a large forest--That there is something great
in it--That the king goes there once every two or three years, with his whole court, for the
pleasure of the chace--and that, during that carnival of sporting, any English gentleman of
fashion (you need not forget yourself) may be accommodated with a nag or two, to partake of
the sport, taking care only not to out-gallop the king--

Though there are two reasons why you need not talk loud of this to every one.

First, Because 'twill make the said nags the harder to be got; and

Secondly, 'Tis not a word of it true.--Allons!

As for Sens--you may dispatch--in a word--''Tis an archiepiscopal see.'

--For Joigny--the less, I think, one says of it the better.

But for Auxerre--I could go on for ever: for in my grand tour through Europe, in which, after
all, my father (not caring to trust me with any one) attended me himself, with my uncle Toby,
and Trim, and Obadiah, and indeed most of the family, except my mother, who being taken up
with a project of knitting my father a pair of large worsted breeches--(the thing is common
sense)--and she not caring to be put out of her way, she staid at home, at Shandy Hall, to
keep things right during the expedition; in which, I say, my father stopping us two days at
Auxerre, and his researches being ever of such a nature, that they would have found fruit even
in a desert--he has left me enough to say upon Auxerre: in short, wherever my father went--but
'twas more remarkably so, in this journey through France and Italy, than in any other stages
of his life--his road seemed to lie so much on one side of that, wherein all other travellers
have gone before him--he saw kings and courts and silks of all colours, in such strange lights--and
his remarks and reasonings upon the characters, the manners, and customs of the countries we
pass'd over, were so opposite to those of all other mortal men, particularly those of my uncle
Toby and Trim--(to say nothing of myself)--and to crown all--the occurrences and scrapes which
we were perpetually meeting and getting into, in consequence of his systems and opiniotry--they
were of so odd, so mix'd and tragi-comical a contexture--That the whole put together, it appears
of so different a shade and tint from any tour of Europe, which was ever executed--that I will
venture to pronounce--the fault must be mine and mine only--if it be not read by all travellers
and travel-readers, till travelling is no more,--or which comes to the same point--till the
world, finally, takes it into its head to stand still.--

--But this rich bale is not to be open'd now; except a small thread or two of it, merely to
unravel the mystery of my father's stay at Auxerre.

--As I have mentioned it--'tis too slight to be kept suspended; and when 'tis wove in, there
is an end of it.

We'll go, brother Toby, said my father, whilst dinner is coddling--to the abbey of Saint Germain,
if it be only to see these bodies, of which Monsieur Sequier has given such a recommendation.--I'll
go see any body, quoth my uncle Toby; for he was all compliance through every step of the journey--Defend
me! said my father--they are all mummies--Then one need not shave; quoth my uncle Toby--Shave!
no--cried my father--'twill be more like relations to go with our beards on--So out we sallied,
the corporal lending his master his arm, and bringing up the rear, to the abbey of Saint Germain.

Every thing is very fine, and very rich, and very superb, and very magnificent, said my father,
addressing himself to the sacristan, who was a younger brother of the order of Benedictines--but
our curiosity has led us to see the bodies, of which Monsieur Sequier has given the world so
exact a description.--The sacristan made a bow, and lighting a torch first, which he had always
in the vestry ready for the purpose; he led us into the tomb of St. Heribald--This, said the
sacristan, laying his hand upon the tomb, was a renowned prince of the house of Bavaria, who
under the successive reigns of Charlemagne, Louis le Debonnair, and Charles the Bald, bore
a great sway in the government, and had a principal hand in bringing every thing into order
and discipline--

Then he has been as great, said my uncle, in the field, as in the cabinet--I dare say he has
been a gallant soldier--He was a monk--said the sacristan.

My uncle Toby and Trim sought comfort in each other's faces--but found it not: my father clapped
both his hands upon his cod-piece, which was a way he had when any thing hugely tickled him:
for though he hated a monk and the very smell of a monk worse than all the devils in hell--yet
the shot hitting my uncle Toby and Trim so much harder than him, 'twas a relative triumph;
and put him into the gayest humour in the world.

--And pray what do you call this gentleman? quoth my father, rather sportingly: This tomb,
said the young Benedictine, looking downwards, contains the bones of Saint Maxima, who came
from Ravenna on purpose to touch the body--

--Of Saint Maximus, said my father, popping in with his saint before him,--they were two of
the greatest saints in the whole martyrology, added my father--Excuse me, said the sacristan--'twas
to touch the bones of Saint Germain, the builder of the abbey--And what did she get by it?
said my uncle Toby--What does any woman get by it? said my father--Martyrdome; replied the
young Benedictine, making a bow down to the ground, and uttering the word with so humble, but
decisive a cadence, it disarmed my father for a moment. 'Tis supposed, continued the Benedictine,
that St. Maxima has lain in this tomb four hundred years, and two hundred before her canonization--'Tis
but a slow rise, brother Toby, quoth my father, in this self-same army of martyrs.--A desperate
slow one, an' please your honour, said Trim, unless one could purchase--I should rather sell
out entirely, quoth my uncle Toby--I am pretty much of your opinion, brother Toby, said my father.

--Poor St. Maxima! said my uncle Toby low to himself, as we turn'd from her tomb: She was one
of the fairest and most beautiful ladies either of Italy or France, continued the sacristan--But
who the duce has got lain down here, besides her? quoth my father, pointing with his cane to
a large tomb as we walked on--It is Saint Optat, Sir, answered the sacristan--And properly
is Saint Optat plac'd! said my father: And what is Saint Optat's story? continued he. Saint
Optat, replied the sacristan, was a bishop--

--I thought so, by heaven! cried my father, interrupting him--Saint Optat!--how should Saint
Optat fail? so snatching out his pocket-book, and the young Benedictine holding him the torch
as he wrote, he set it down as a new prop to his system of Christian names, and I will be bold
to say, so disinterested was he in the search of truth, that had he found a treasure in Saint
Optat's tomb, it would not have made him half so rich: 'Twas as successful a short visit as
ever was paid to the dead; and so highly was his fancy pleas'd with all that had passed in
it,--that he determined at once to stay another day in Auxerre.

--I'll see the rest of these good gentry to-morrow, said my father, as we cross'd over the
square--And while you are paying that visit, brother Shandy, quoth my uncle Toby--the corporal
and I will mount the ramparts.

Chapter 4.IX.

--Now this is the most puzzled skein of all--for in this last chapter, as far at least as it
has help'd me through Auxerre, I have been getting forwards in two different journies together,
and with the same dash of the pen--for I have got entirely out of Auxerre in this journey which
I am writing now, and I am got half way out of Auxerre in that which I shall write hereafter--There
is but a certain degree of perfection in every thing; and by pushing at something beyond that,
I have brought myself into such a situation, as no traveller ever stood before me; for I am
this moment walking across the market-place of Auxerre with my father and my uncle Toby, in
our way back to dinner--and I am this moment also entering Lyons with my post-chaise broke
into a thousand pieces--and I am moreover this moment in a handsome pavillion built by Pringello
(The same Don Pringello, the celebrated Spanish architect, of whom my cousin Antony has made
such honourable mention in a scholium to the Tale inscribed to his name. Vid. p.129, small
edit.), upon the banks of the Garonne, which Mons. Sligniac has lent me, and where I now sit
rhapsodising all these affairs.

--Let me collect myself, and pursue my journey.

Chapter 4.X.

I am glad of it, said I, settling the account with myself, as I walk'd into Lyons--my chaise
being all laid higgledy-piggledy with my baggage in a cart, which was moving slowly before
me--I am heartily glad, said I, that 'tis all broke to pieces; for now I can go directly by
water to Avignon, which will carry me on a hundred and twenty miles of my journey, and not
cost me seven livres--and from thence, continued I, bringing forwards the account, I can hire
a couple of mules--or asses, if I like, (for nobody knows me,) and cross the plains of Languedoc
for almost nothing--I shall gain four hundred livres by the misfortune clear into my purse:
and pleasure! worth--worth double the money by it. With what velocity, continued I, clapping
my two hands together, shall I fly down the rapid Rhone, with the Vivares on my right hand,
and Dauphiny on my left, scarce seeing the ancient cities of Vienne, Valence, and Vivieres.
What a flame will it rekindle in the lamp, to snatch a blushing grape from the Hermitage and
Cote roti, as I shoot by the foot of them! and what a fresh spring in the blood! to behold
upon the banks advancing and retiring, the castles of romance, whence courteous knights have
whilome rescued the distress'd--and see vertiginous, the rocks, the mountains, the cataracts,
and all the hurry which Nature is in with all her great works about her.

As I went on thus, methought my chaise, the wreck of which look'd stately enough at the first,
insensibly grew less and less in its size; the freshness of the painting was no more--the gilding
lost its lustre--and the whole affair appeared so poor in my eyes--so sorry!--so contemptible!
and, in a word, so much worse than the abbess of Andouillets' itself--that I was just opening
my mouth to give it to the devil--when a pert vamping chaise-undertaker, stepping nimbly across
the street, demanded if Monsieur would have his chaise refitted--No, no, said I, shaking my
head sideways--Would Monsieur choose to sell it? rejoined the undertaker--With all my soul,
said I--the iron work is worth forty livres--and the glasses worth forty more--and the leather
you may take to live on.

What a mine of wealth, quoth I, as he counted me the money, has this post-chaise brought me
in? And this is my usual method of book-keeping, at least with the disasters of life--making
a penny of every one of 'em as they happen to me--

--Do, my dear Jenny, tell the world for me, how I behaved under one, the most oppressive of
its kind, which could befal me as a man, proud as he ought to be of his manhood--

'Tis enough, saidst thou, coming close up to me, as I stood with my garters in my hand, reflecting
upon what had not pass'd--'Tis enough, Tristram, and I am satisfied, saidst thou, whispering
these words in my ear,.......... .........;--.........--any other man would have sunk down
to the centre--

--Every thing is good for something, quoth I.

--I'll go into Wales for six weeks, and drink goat's whey--and I'll gain seven years longer
life for the accident. For which reason I think myself inexcusable, for blaming Fortune so
often as I have done, for pelting me all my life long, like an ungracious duchess, as I call'd
her, with so many small evils: surely, if I have any cause to be angry with her, 'tis that
she has not sent me great ones--a score of good cursed, bouncing losses, would have been as
good as a pension to me.

--One of a hundred a year, or so, is all I wish--I would not be at the plague of paying land-tax
for a larger.

Chapter 4.XI.

To those who call vexations, Vexations, as knowing what they are, there could not be a greater,
than to be the best part of a day at Lyons, the most opulent and flourishing city in France,
enriched with the most fragments of antiquity--and not be able to see it. To be withheld upon
any account, must be a vexation; but to be withheld by a vexation--must certainly be, what
philosophy justly calls Vexation upon Vexation.

I had got my two dishes of milk coffee (which by the bye is excellently good for a consumption,
but you must boil the milk and coffee together--otherwise 'tis only coffee and milk)--and as
it was no more than eight in the morning, and the boat did not go off till noon, I had time
to see enough of Lyons to tire the patience of all the friends I had in the world with it.
I will take a walk to the cathedral, said I, looking at my list, and see the wonderful mechanism
of this great clock of Lippius of Basil, in the first place--

Now, of all things in the world, I understand the least of mechanism--I have neither genius,
or taste, or fancy--and have a brain so entirely unapt for every thing of that kind, that I
solemnly declare I was never yet able to comprehend the principles of motion of a squirrel
cage, or a common knife-grinder's wheel--tho' I have many an hour of my life look'd up with
great devotion at the one--and stood by with as much patience as any christian ever could do,
at the other--

I'll go see the surprising movements of this great clock, said I, the very first thing I do:
and then I will pay a visit to the great library of the Jesuits, and procure, if possible,
a sight of the thirty volumes of the general history of China, wrote (not in the Tartarean,
but) in the Chinese language, and in the Chinese character too.

Now I almost know as little of the Chinese language, as I do of the mechanism of Lippius's
clock-work; so, why these should have jostled themselves into the two first articles of my
list--I leave to the curious as a problem of Nature. I own it looks like one of her ladyship's
obliquities; and they who court her, are interested in finding out her humour as much as I.

When these curiosities are seen, quoth I, half addressing myself to my valet de place, who
stood behind me--'twill be no hurt if we go to the church of St. Irenaeus, and see the pillar
to which Christ was tied--and after that, the house where Pontius Pilate lived--'Twas at the
next town, said the valet de place--at Vienne; I am glad of it, said I, rising briskly from
my chair, and walking across the room with strides twice as long as my usual pace--'for so
much the sooner shall I be at the Tomb of the two lovers.'

What was the cause of this movement, and why I took such long strides in uttering this--I might
leave to the curious too; but as no principle of clock-work is concerned in it--'twill be as
well for the reader if I explain it myself.

Chapter 4.XII.

O! there is a sweet aera in the life of man, when (the brain being tender and fibrillous, and
more like pap than any thing else)--a story read of two fond lovers, separated from each other
by cruel parents, and by still more cruel destiny--

 Amandus--He
 Amanda--She--
 each ignorant of the other's course,
 He--east
 She--west

Amandus taken captive by the Turks, and carried to the emperor of Morocco's court, where the
princess of Morocco falling in love with him, keeps him twenty years in prison for the love
of his Amanda.--

She--(Amanda) all the time wandering barefoot, and with dishevell'd hair, o'er rocks and mountains,
enquiring for Amandus!--Amandus! Amandus!--making every hill and valley to echo back his name--Amandus!
Amandus! at every town and city, sitting down forlorn at the gate--Has Amandus!--has my Amandus
enter'd?--till,--going round, and round, and round the world--chance unexpected bringing them
at the same moment of the night, though by different ways, to the gate of Lyons, their native
city, and each in well-known accents calling out aloud,

Is Amandus / Is my Amanda still alive?

they fly into each other's arms, and both drop down dead for joy.

Out upon it! cried I--but the interjection was equivocal--and, I think, wrong placed too--for
the end of an osier which had started out from the contexture of the ass's panier, had caught
hold of my breeches pocket, as he rush'd by me, and rent it in the most disastrous direction
you can imagine--so that the

Out upon it! in my opinion, should have come in here--but this I leave to be settled by

  The
  Reviewers
  of
  My Breeches,

which I have brought over along with me for that purpose.

Chapter 4.XIV.

When all was set to rights, I came down stairs again into the basse cour with my valet de place,
in order to sally out towards the tomb of the two lovers, &c.--and was a second time stopp'd
at the gate--not by the ass--but by the person who struck him; and who, by that time, had taken
possession (as is not uncommon after a defeat) of the very spot of ground where the ass stood.

It was a commissary sent to me from the post-office, with a rescript in his hand for the payment
of some six livres odd sous.

Upon what account? said I.--'Tis upon the part of the king, replied the commissary, heaving
up both his shoulders--

--My good friend, quoth I--as sure as I am I--and you are you--

--And who are you? said he.--Don't puzzle me; said I.

Chapter 4.XV.

--But it is an indubitable verity, continued I, addressing myself to the commissary, changing
only the form of my asseveration--that I owe the king of France nothing but my good will; for
he is a very honest man, and I wish him all health and pastime in the world--

Pardonnez moi--replied the commissary, you are indebted to him six livres four sous, for the
next post from hence to St. Fons, in your route to Avignon--which being a post royal, you pay
double for the horses and postillion--otherwise 'twould have amounted to no more than three
livres two sous--

--But I don't go by land; said I.

--You may if you please; replied the commissary--

Your most obedient servant--said I, making him a low bow--

The commissary, with all the sincerity of grave good breeding--made me one, as low again.--I
never was more disconcerted with a bow in my life.

--The devil take the serious character of these people! quoth I--(aside) they understand no
more of Irony than this--

The comparison was standing close by with his panniers--but something seal'd up my lips--I
could not pronounce the name--

Sir, said I, collecting myself--it is not my intention to take post--

--But you may--said he, persisting in his first reply--you may take post if you chuse--

--And I may take salt to my pickled herring, said I, if I chuse--

--But I do not chuse--

--But you must pay for it, whether you do or no.

Aye! for the salt; said I (I know)--

--And for the post too; added he. Defend me! cried I--

I travel by water--I am going down the Rhone this very afternoon--my baggage is in the boat--and
I have actually paid nine livres for my passage--

C'est tout egal--'tis all one; said he.

Bon Dieu! what, pay for the way I go! and for the way I do not go!

--C'est tout egal; replied the commissary--

--The devil it is! said I--but I will go to ten thousand Bastiles first--

O England! England! thou land of liberty, and climate of good sense, thou tenderest of mothers--and
gentlest of nurses, cried I, kneeling upon one knee, as I was beginning my apostrophe.

When the director of Madam Le Blanc's conscience coming in at that instant, and seeing a person
in black, with a face as pale as ashes, at his devotions--looking still paler by the contrast
and distress of his drapery--ask'd, if I stood in want of the aids of the church--

I go by Water--said I--and here's another will be for making me pay for going by Oil.

Chapter 4.XVI.

As I perceived the commissary of the post-office would have his six livres four sous, I had
nothing else for it, but to say some smart thing upon the occasion, worth the money:

And so I set off thus:--

--And pray, Mr. Commissary, by what law of courtesy is a defenceless stranger to be used just
the reverse from what you use a Frenchman in this matter?

By no means; said he.

Excuse me; said I--for you have begun, Sir, with first tearing off my breeches-and now you
want my pocket--

Whereas--had you first taken my pocket, as you do with your own people--and then left me bare
a..'d after--I had been a beast to have complain'd--

As it is--

--'Tis contrary to the law of nature.

--'Tis contrary to reason.

--'Tis contrary to the Gospel.

But not to this--said he--putting a printed paper into my hand,

Par le Roy.

--'Tis a pithy prolegomenon, quoth I--and so read on....

--By all which it appears, quoth I, having read it over, a little too rapidly, that if a man
sets out in a post-chaise from Paris--he must go on travelling in one, all the days of his
life--or pay for it.--Excuse me, said the commissary, the spirit of the ordinance is this--That
if you set out with an intention of running post from Paris to Avignon, &c. you shall not change
that intention or mode of travelling, without first satisfying the fermiers for two posts further
than the place you repent at--and 'tis founded, continued he, upon this, that the Revenues
are not to fall short through your fickleness--

--O by heavens! cried I--if fickleness is taxable in France--we have nothing to do but to make
the best peace with you we can--

And So the Peace Was Made;

--And if it is a bad one--as Tristram Shandy laid the corner-stone of it--nobody but Tristram
Shandy ought to be hanged.

Chapter 4.XVII.

Though I was sensible I had said as many clever things to the commissary as came to six livres
four sous, yet I was determined to note down the imposition amongst my remarks before I retired
from the place; so putting my hand into my coat-pocket for my remarks--(which, by the bye,
may be a caution to travellers to take a little more care of their remarks for the future)
'my remarks were stolen'--Never did sorry traveller make such a pother and racket about his
remarks as I did about mine, upon the occasion.

Heaven! earth! sea! fire! cried I, calling in every thing to my aid but what I should--My remarks
are stolen!--what shall I do?--Mr. Commissary! pray did I drop any remarks, as I stood besides
you?--

You dropp'd a good many very singular ones; replied he--Pugh! said I, those were but a few,
not worth above six livres two sous--but these are a large parcel--He shook his head--Monsieur
Le Blanc! Madam Le Blanc! did you see any papers of mine?--you maid of the house! run up stairs--Francois!
run up after her--

--I must have my remarks--they were the best remarks, cried I, that ever were made--the wisest--the
wittiest--What shall I do?--which way shall I turn myself?

Sancho Panca, when he lost his ass's Furniture, did not exclaim more bitterly.

Chapter 4.XVIII.

When the first transport was over, and the registers of the brain were beginning to get a little
out of the confusion into which this jumble of cross accidents had cast them--it then presently
occurr'd to me, that I had left my remarks in the pocket of the chaise--and that in selling
my chaise, I had sold my remarks along with it, to the chaise-vamper. I leave this void space
that the reader may swear into it any oath that he is most accustomed to--For my own part,
if ever I swore a whole oath into a vacancy in my life, I think it was into that--.........,
said I--and so my remarks through France, which were as full of wit, as an egg is full of meat,
and as well worth four hundred guineas, as the said egg is worth a penny--have I been selling
here to a chaise-vamper--for four Louis d'Ors--and giving him a post-chaise (by heaven) worth
six into the bargain; had it been to Dodsley, or Becket, or any creditable bookseller, who
was either leaving off business, and wanted a post-chaise--or who was beginning it--and wanted
my remarks, and two or three guineas along with them--I could have borne it--but to a chaise-vamper!--shew
me to him this moment, Francois,--said I--The valet de place put on his hat, and led the way--and
I pull'd off mine, as I pass'd the commissary, and followed him.

Chapter 4.XIX.

When we arrived at the chaise-vamper's house, both the house and the shop were shut up; it
was the eighth of September, the nativity of the blessed Virgin Mary, mother of God--

--Tantarra-ra-tan-tivi--the whole world was gone out a May-poling--frisking here--capering
there--no body cared a button for me or my remarks; so I sat me down upon a bench by the door,
philosophating upon my condition: by a better fate than usually attends me, I had not waited
half an hour, when the mistress came in to take the papilliotes from off her hair, before she
went to the May-poles--

The French women, by the bye, love May-poles, a la folie--that is, as much as their matins--give
'em but a May-pole, whether in May, June, July or September--they never count the times--down
it goes--'tis meat, drink, washing, and lodging to 'em--and had we but the policy, an' please
your worships (as wood is a little scarce in France), to send them but plenty of May-poles--

The women would set them up; and when they had done, they would dance round them (and the men
for company) till they were all blind.

The wife of the chaise-vamper stepp'd in, I told you, to take the papilliotes from off her
hair--the toilet stands still for no man--so she jerk'd off her cap, to begin with them as
she open'd the door, in doing which, one of them fell upon the ground--I instantly saw it was
my own writing--

O Seigneur! cried I--you have got all my remarks upon your head, Madam!--J'en suis bien mortifiee,
said she--'tis well, thinks I, they have stuck there--for could they have gone deeper, they
would have made such confusion in a French woman's noddle--She had better have gone with it
unfrizled, to the day of eternity.

Tenez--said she--so without any idea of the nature of my suffering, she took them from her
curls, and put them gravely one by one into my hat--one was twisted this way--another twisted
that--ey! by my faith; and when they are published, quoth I,--

They will be worse twisted still.

Chapter 4.XX.

And now for Lippius's clock! said I, with the air of a man, who had got thro' all his difficulties--nothing
can prevent us seeing that, and the Chinese history, &c. except the time, said Francois--for
'tis almost eleven--then we must speed the faster, said I, striding it away to the cathedral.

I cannot say, in my heart, that it gave me any concern in being told by one of the minor canons,
as I was entering the west door,--That Lippius's great clock was all out of joints, and had
not gone for some years--It will give me the more time, thought I, to peruse the Chinese history;
and besides I shall be able to give the world a better account of the clock in its decay, than
I could have done in its flourishing condition--

--And so away I posted to the college of the Jesuits.

Now it is with the project of getting a peep at the history of China in Chinese characters--as
with many others I could mention, which strike the fancy only at a distance; for as I came
nearer and nearer to the point--my blood cool'd--the freak gradually went off, till at length
I would not have given a cherry-stone to have it gratified--The truth was, my time was short,
and my heart was at the Tomb of the Lovers--I wish to God, said I, as I got the rapper in my
hand, that the key of the library may be but lost; it fell out as well--

For all the Jesuits had got the cholic--and to that degree, as never was known in the memory
of the oldest practitioner.

Chapter 4.XXI.

As I knew the geography of the Tomb of the Lovers, as well as if I had lived twenty years in
Lyons, namely, that it was upon the turning of my right hand, just without the gate, leading
to the Fauxbourg de Vaise--I dispatched Francois to the boat, that I might pay the homage I
so long ow'd it, without a witness of my weakness--I walk'd with all imaginable joy towards
the place--when I saw the gate which intercepted the tomb, my heart glowed within me--

--Tender and faithful spirits! cried I, addressing myself to Amandus and Amanda--long--long
have I tarried to drop this tear upon your tomb--I come--I come--

When I came--there was no tomb to drop it upon.

What would I have given for my uncle Toby, to have whistled Lillo bullero!

Chapter 4.XXII.

No matter how, or in what mood--but I flew from the tomb of the lovers--or rather I did not
fly from it--(for there was no such thing existing) and just got time enough to the boat to
save my passage;--and ere I had sailed a hundred yards, the Rhone and the Saon met together,
and carried me down merrily betwixt them.

But I have described this voyage down the Rhone, before I made it--

--So now I am at Avignon, and as there is nothing to see but the old house, in which the duke
of Ormond resided, and nothing to stop me but a short remark upon the place, in three minutes
you will see me crossing the bridge upon a mule, with Francois upon a horse with my portmanteau
behind him, and the owner of both, striding the way before us, with a long gun upon his shoulder,
and a sword under his arm, lest peradventure we should run away with his cattle. Had you seen
my breeches in entering Avignon,--Though you'd have seen them better, I think, as I mounted--you
would not have thought the precaution amiss, or found in your heart to have taken it in dudgeon;
for my own part, I took it most kindly; and determined to make him a present of them, when
we got to the end of our journey, for the trouble they had put him to, of arming himself at
all points against them.

Before I go further, let me get rid of my remark upon Avignon, which is this: That I think
it wrong, merely because a man's hat has been blown off his head by chance the first night
he comes to Avignon,--that he should therefore say, 'Avignon is more subject to high winds
than any town in all France:' for which reason I laid no stress upon the accident till I had
enquired of the master of the inn about it, who telling me seriously it was so--and hearing,
moreover, the windiness of Avignon spoke of in the country about as a proverb--I set it down,
merely to ask the learned what can be the cause--the consequence I saw--for they are all Dukes,
Marquisses, and Counts, there--the duce a Baron, in all Avignon--so that there is scarce any
talking to them on a windy day.

Prithee, friend, said I, take hold of my mule for a moment--for I wanted to pull off one of
my jack-boots, which hurt my heel--the man was standing quite idle at the door of the inn,
and as I had taken it into my head, he was someway concerned about the house or stable, I put
the bridle into his hand--so begun with the boot:--when I had finished the affair, I turned
about to take the mule from the man, and thank him--

--But Monsieur le Marquis had walked in--

Chapter 4.XXIII.

I had now the whole south of France, from the banks of the Rhone to those of the Garonne, to
traverse upon my mule at my own leisure--at my own leisure--for I had left Death, the Lord
knows--and He only--how far behind me--'I have followed many a man thro' France, quoth he--but
never at this mettlesome rate.'--Still he followed,--and still I fled him--but I fled him cheerfully--still
he pursued--but, like one who pursued his prey without hope--as he lagg'd, every step he lost,
softened his looks--why should I fly him at this rate?

So notwithstanding all the commissary of the post-office had said, I changed the mode of my
travelling once more; and, after so precipitate and rattling a course as I had run, I flattered
my fancy with thinking of my mule, and that I should traverse the rich plains of Languedoc
upon his back, as slowly as foot could fall.

There is nothing more pleasing to a traveller--or more terrible to travel-writers, than a large
rich plain; especially if it is without great rivers or bridges; and presents nothing to the
eye, but one unvaried picture of plenty: for after they have once told you, that 'tis delicious!
or delightful! (as the case happens)--that the soil was grateful, and that nature pours out
all her abundance, &c...they have then a large plain upon their hands, which they know not
what to do with--and which is of little or no use to them but to carry them to some town; and
that town, perhaps of little more, but a new place to start from to the next plain--and so on.

--This is most terrible work; judge if I don't manage my plains better.

Chapter 4.XXIV.

I had not gone above two leagues and a half, before the man with his gun began to look at his
priming.

I had three several times loiter'd terribly behind; half a mile at least every time; once,
in deep conference with a drum-maker, who was making drums for the fairs of Baucaira and Tarascone--I
did not understand the principles--

The second time, I cannot so properly say, I stopp'd--for meeting a couple of Franciscans straitened
more for time than myself, and not being able to get to the bottom of what I was about--I had
turn'd back with them--

The third, was an affair of trade with a gossip, for a hand-basket of Provence figs for four
sous; this would have been transacted at once; but for a case of conscience at the close of
it; for when the figs were paid for, it turn'd out, that there were two dozen of eggs covered
over with vine-leaves at the bottom of the basket--as I had no intention of buying eggs--I
made no sort of claim of them--as for the space they had occupied--what signified it? I had
figs enow for my money--

--But it was my intention to have the basket--it was the gossip's intention to keep it, without
which, she could do nothing with her eggs--and unless I had the basket, I could do as little
with my figs, which were too ripe already, and most of 'em burst at the side: this brought
on a short contention, which terminated in sundry proposals, what we should both do--

--How we disposed of our eggs and figs, I defy you, or the Devil himself, had he not been there
(which I am persuaded he was), to form the least probable conjecture: You will read the whole
of it--not this year, for I am hastening to the story of my uncle Toby's amours--but you will
read it in the collection of those which have arose out of the journey across this plain--and
which, therefore, I call my

Plain Stories.

How far my pen has been fatigued, like those of other travellers, in this journey of it, over
so barren a track--the world must judge--but the traces of it, which are now all set o' vibrating
together this moment, tell me 'tis the most fruitful and busy period of my life; for as I had
made no convention with my man with the gun, as to time--by stopping and talking to every soul
I met, who was not in a full trot--joining all parties before me--waiting for every soul behind--hailing
all those who were coming through cross-roads--arresting all kinds of beggars, pilgrims, fiddlers,
friars--not passing by a woman in a mulberry-tree without commending her legs, and tempting
her into conversation with a pinch of snuff--In short, by seizing every handle, of what size
or shape soever, which chance held out to me in this journey--I turned my plain into a city--I
was always in company, and with great variety too; and as my mule loved society as much as
myself, and had some proposals always on his part to offer to every beast he met--I am confident
we could have passed through Pall-Mall, or St. James's-Street, for a month together, with fewer
adventures--and seen less of human nature.

O! there is that sprightly frankness, which at once unpins every plait of a Languedocian's
dress--that whatever is beneath it, it looks so like the simplicity which poets sing of in
better days--I will delude my fancy, and believe it is so.

Hadst thou, Nannette, been array'd like a duchesse!

--But that cursed slit in thy petticoat!

Nannette cared not for it. Vol. III.) in sundry pages of my book--I defy the best cabbage planter
that ever existed, whether he plants backwards or forwards, it makes little difference in the
account (except that he will have more to answer for in the one case than in the other)--I
defy him to go on coolly, critically, and canonically, planting his cabbages one by one, in
straight lines, and stoical distances, especially if slits in petticoats are unsew'd up--without
ever and anon straddling out, or sidling into some bastardly digression--In Freeze-land, Fog-land,
and some other lands I wot of--it may be done--

But in this clear climate of fantasy and perspiration, where every idea, sensible and insensible,
gets vent--in this land, my dear Eugenius--in this fertile land of chivalry and romance, where
I now sit, unskrewing my ink-horn to write my uncle Toby's amours, and with all the meanders
of Julia's track in quest of her Diego, in full view of my study window--if thou comest not
and takest me by the hand--

What a work it is likely to turn out!

Let us begin it.

Chapter 4.XXVI.

It is with Love as with Cuckoldom--

But now I am talking of beginning a book, and have long had a thing upon my mind to be imparted
to the reader, which, if not imparted now, can never be imparted to him as long as I live (whereas
the Comparison may be imparted to him any hour in the day)--I'll just mention it, and begin
in good earnest.

The thing is this.

That of all the several ways of beginning a book which are now in practice throughout the known
world, I am confident my own way of doing it is the best--I'm sure it is the most religious--for
I begin with writing the first sentence--and trusting to Almighty God for the second.

'Twould cure an author for ever of the fuss and folly of opening his street-door, and calling
in his neighbours and friends, and kinsfolk, with the devil and all his imps, with their hammers
and engines, &c. only to observe how one sentence of mine follows another, and how the plan
follows the whole.

I wish you saw me half starting out of my chair, with what confidence, as I grasp the elbow
of it, I look up--catching the idea, even sometimes before it half way reaches me--

I believe in my conscience I intercept many a thought which heaven intended for another man.

Pope and his Portrait (Vid. Pope's Portrait.) are fools to me--no martyr is ever so full of
faith or fire--I wish I could say of good works too--but I have no

  Zeal or Anger--or
  Anger or Zeal--

And till gods and men agree together to call it by the same name--the errantest Tartuffe, in
science--in politics--or in religion, shall never kindle a spark within me, or have a worse
word, or a more unkind greeting, than what he will read in the next chapter.

Chapter 4.XXVII.

--Bon jour!--good morrow!--so you have got your cloak on betimes!--but 'tis a cold morning,
and you judge the matter rightly--'tis better to be well mounted, than go o' foot--and obstructions
in the glands are dangerous--And how goes it with thy concubine--thy wife,--and thy little
ones o' both sides? and when did you hear from the old gentleman and lady--your sister, aunt,
uncle, and cousins--I hope they have got better of their colds, coughs, claps, tooth-aches,
fevers, stranguries, sciaticas, swellings, and sore eyes.

--What a devil of an apothecary! to take so much blood--give such a vile purge--puke--poultice--plaister--night-draught--clyster--blister?--And
why so many grains of calomel? santa Maria! and such a dose of opium! peri-clitating, pardi!
the whole family of ye, from head to tail--By my great-aunt Dinah's old black velvet mask!
I think there is no occasion for it.

Now this being a little bald about the chin, by frequently putting off and on, before she was
got with child by the coachman--not one of our family would wear it after. To cover the Mask
afresh, was more than the mask was worth--and to wear a mask which was bald, or which could
be half seen through, was as bad as having no mask at all--

This is the reason, may it please your reverences, that in all our numerous family, for these
four generations, we count no more than one archbishop, a Welch judge, some three or four aldermen,
and a single mountebank--

In the sixteenth century, we boast of no less than a dozen alchymists.

Chapter 4.XXVIII.

'It is with Love as with Cuckoldom'--the suffering party is at least the third, but generally
the last in the house who knows any thing about the matter: this comes, as all the world knows,
from having half a dozen words for one thing; and so long, as what in this vessel of the human
frame, is Love--may be Hatred, in that--Sentiment half a yard higher--and Nonsense--no, Madam,--not
there--I mean at the part I am now pointing to with my forefinger--how can we help ourselves?

Of all mortal, and immortal men too, if you please, who ever soliloquized upon this mystic
subject, my uncle Toby was the worst fitted, to have push'd his researches, thro' such a contention
of feelings; and he had infallibly let them all run on, as we do worse matters, to see what
they would turn out--had not Bridget's pre-notification of them to Susannah, and Susannah's
repeated manifestoes thereupon to all the world, made it necessary for my uncle Toby to look
into the affair.

Chapter 4.XXIX.

Why weavers, gardeners, and gladiators--or a man with a pined leg (proceeding from some ailment
in the foot)--should ever have had some tender nymph breaking her heart in secret for them,
are points well and duly settled and accounted for, by ancient and modern physiologists.

A water-drinker, provided he is a profess'd one, and does it without fraud or covin, is precisely
in the same predicament: not that, at first sight, there is any consequence, or show of logic
in it, 'That a rill of cold water dribbling through my inward parts, should light up a torch
in my Jenny's--'

--The proposition does not strike one; on the contrary, it seems to run opposite to the natural
workings of causes and effects--

But it shews the weakness and imbecility of human reason.

--'And in perfect good health with it?'

--The most perfect,--Madam, that friendship herself could wish me--

'And drink nothing!--nothing but water?'

--Impetuous fluid! the moment thou pressest against the flood-gates of the brain--see how they
give way--!

In swims Curiosity, beckoning to her damsels to follow--they dive into the center of the current--

Fancy sits musing upon the bank, and with her eyes following the stream, turns straws and bulrushes
into masts and bow-sprits--And Desire, with vest held up to the knee in one hand, snatches
at them, as they swim by her, with the other--

O ye water drinkers! is it then by this delusive fountain, that ye have so often governed and
turn'd this world about like a mill-wheel--grinding the faces of the impotent--bepowdering
their ribs--bepeppering their noses, and changing sometimes even the very frame and face of
nature--

If I was you, quoth Yorick, I would drink more water, Eugenius--And, if I was you, Yorick,
replied Eugenius, so would I.

Which shews they had both read Longinus--

For my own part, I am resolved never to read any book but my own, as long as I live.

Chapter 4.XXX.

I wish my uncle Toby had been a water-drinker; for then the thing had been accounted for, That
the first moment Widow Wadman saw him, she felt something stirring within her in his favour--Something!--something.

--Something perhaps more than friendship--less than love--something--no matter what--no matter
where--I would not give a single hair off my mule's tail, and be obliged to pluck it off myself
(indeed the villain has not many to spare, and is not a little vicious into the bargain), to
be let by your worships into the secret--

But the truth is, my uncle Toby was not a water-drinker; he drank it neither pure nor mix'd,
or any how, or any where, except fortuitously upon some advanced posts, where better liquor
was not to be had--or during the time he was under cure; when the surgeon telling him it would
extend the fibres, and bring them sooner into contact--my uncle Toby drank it for quietness sake.

Now as all the world knows, that no effect in nature can be produced without a cause, and as
it is as well known, that my uncle Toby was neither a weaver--a gardener, or a gladiator--unless
as a captain, you will needs have him one--but then he was only a captain of foot--and besides,
the whole is an equivocation--There is nothing left for us to suppose, but that my uncle Toby's
leg--but that will avail us little in the present hypothesis, unless it had proceeded from
some ailment in the foot--whereas his leg was not emaciated from any disorder in his foot--for
my uncle Toby's leg was not emaciated at all. It was a little stiff and awkward, from a total
disuse of it, for the three years he lay confined at my father's house in town; but it was
plump and muscular, and in all other respects as good and promising a leg as the other.

I declare, I do not recollect any one opinion or passage of my life, where my understanding
was more at a loss to make ends meet, and torture the chapter I had been writing, to the service
of the chapter following it, than in the present case: one would think I took a pleasure in
running into difficulties of this kind, merely to make fresh experiments of getting out of
'em--Inconsiderate soul that thou art! What! are not the unavoidable distresses with which,
as an author and a man, thou art hemm'd in on every side of thee--are they, Tristram, not sufficient,
but thou must entangle thyself still more?

Is it not enough that thou art in debt, and that thou hast ten cart-loads of thy fifth and
sixth volumes (Alluding to the first edition.) still--still unsold, and art almost at thy wit's
ends, how to get them off thy hands?

To this hour art thou not tormented with the vile asthma that thou gattest in skating against
the wind in Flanders? and is it but two months ago, that in a fit of laughter, on seeing a
cardinal make water like a quirister (with both hands) thou brakest a vessel in thy lungs,
whereby, in two hours, thou lost as many quarts of blood; and hadst thou lost as much more,
did not the faculty tell thee--it would have amounted to a gallon?--

Chapter 4.XXXI.

--But for heaven's sake, let us not talk of quarts or gallons--let us take the story straight
before us; it is so nice and intricate a one, it will scarce bear the transposition of a single
tittle; and, somehow or other, you have got me thrust almost into the middle of it--

--I beg we may take more care.

Chapter 4.XXXII.

My uncle Toby and the corporal had posted down with so much heat and precipitation, to take
possession of the spot of ground we have so often spoke of, in order to open their campaign
as early as the rest of the allies; that they had forgot one of the most necessary articles
of the whole affair, it was neither a pioneer's spade, a pickax, or a shovel--

--It was a bed to lie on: so that as Shandy-Hall was at that time unfurnished; and the little
inn where poor Le Fever died, not yet built; my uncle Toby was constrained to accept of a bed
at Mrs. Wadman's, for a night or two, till corporal Trim (who to the character of an excellent
valet, groom, cook, sempster, surgeon, and engineer, super-added that of an excellent upholsterer
too), with the help of a carpenter and a couple of taylors, constructed one in my uncle Toby's
house.

A daughter of Eve, for such was widow Wadman, and 'tis all the character I intend to give of her--

--'That she was a perfect woman--' had better be fifty leagues off--or in her warm bed--or
playing with a case-knife--or any thing you please--than make a man the object of her attention,
when the house and all the furniture is her own.

There is nothing in it out of doors and in broad day-light, where a woman has a power, physically
speaking, of viewing a man in more lights than one--but here, for her soul, she can see him
in no light without mixing something of her own goods and chattels along with him--till by
reiterated acts of such combination, he gets foisted into her inventory--

--And then good night.

But this is not matter of System; for I have delivered that above--nor is it matter of Breviary--for
I make no man's creed but my own--nor matter of Fact--at least that I know of; but 'tis matter
copulative and introductory to what follows.

Chapter 4.XXXIII.

I do not speak it with regard to the coarseness or cleanness of them--or the strength of their
gussets--but pray do not night-shifts differ from day-shifts as much in this particular, as
in any thing else in the world; that they so far exceed the others in length, that when you
are laid down in them, they fall almost as much below the feet, as the day-shifts fall short
of them?

Widow Wadman's night-shifts (as was the mode I suppose in King William's and Queen Anne's reigns)
were cut however after this fashion; and if the fashion is changed (for in Italy they are come
to nothing)--so much the worse for the public; they were two Flemish ells and a half in length,
so that allowing a moderate woman two ells, she had half an ell to spare, to do what she would
with.

Now from one little indulgence gained after another, in the many bleak and decemberley nights
of a seven years widow-hood, things had insensibly come to this pass, and for the two last
years had got establish'd into one of the ordinances of the bed-chamber--That as soon as Mrs.
Wadman was put to bed, and had got her legs stretched down to the bottom of it, of which she
always gave Bridget notice--Bridget, with all suitable decorum, having first open'd the bed-clothes
at the feet, took hold of the half-ell of cloth we are speaking of, and having gently, and
with both her hands, drawn it downwards to its furthest extension, and then contracted it again
side-long by four or five even plaits, she took a large corking-pin out of her sleeve, and
with the point directed towards her, pinn'd the plaits all fast together a little above the
hem; which done, she tuck'd all in tight at the feet, and wish'd her mistress a good night.

This was constant, and without any other variation than this; that on shivering and tempestuous
nights, when Bridget untuck'd the feet of the bed, &c. to do this--she consulted no thermometer
but that of her own passions; and so performed it standing--kneeling--or squatting, according
to the different degrees of faith, hope, and charity, she was in, and bore towards her mistress
that night. In every other respect, the etiquette was sacred, and might have vied with the
most mechanical one of the most inflexible bed-chamber in Christendom.

The first night, as soon as the corporal had conducted my uncle Toby up stairs, which was about
ten--Mrs. Wadman threw herself into her arm-chair, and crossing her left knee with her right,
which formed a resting-place for her elbow, she reclin'd her cheek upon the palm of her hand,
and leaning forwards, ruminated till midnight upon both sides of the question.

The second night she went to her bureau, and having ordered Bridget to bring her up a couple
of fresh candles and leave them upon the table, she took out her marriage-settlement, and read
it over with great devotion: and the third night (which was the last of my uncle Toby's stay)
when Bridget had pull'd down the night-shift, and was assaying to stick in the corking pin--

--With a kick of both heels at once, but at the same time the most natural kick that could
be kick'd in her situation--for supposing......... to be the sun in its meridian, it was a
north-east kick--she kick'd the pin out of her fingers--the etiquette which hung upon it, down--down
it fell to the ground, and was shiver'd into a thousand atoms.

From all which it was plain that widow Wadman was in love with my uncle Toby.

Chapter 4.XXXIV.

My uncle Toby's head at that time was full of other matters, so that it was not till the demolition
of Dunkirk, when all the other civilities of Europe were settled, that he found leisure to
return this.

This made an armistice (that is, speaking with regard to my uncle Toby--but with respect to
Mrs. Wadman, a vacancy)--of almost eleven years. But in all cases of this nature, as it is
the second blow, happen at what distance of time it will, which makes the fray--I chuse for
that reason to call these the amours of my uncle Toby with Mrs. Wadman, rather than the amours
of Mrs. Wadman with my uncle Toby.

This is not a distinction without a difference.

It is not like the affair of an old hat cock'd--and a cock'd old hat, about which your reverences
have so often been at odds with one another--but there is a difference here in the nature of
things--

And let me tell you, gentry, a wide one too.

Chapter 4.XXXV.

Now as widow Wadman did love my uncle Toby--and my uncle Toby did not love widow Wadman, there
was nothing for widow Wadman to do, but to go on and love my uncle Toby--or let it alone.

Widow Wadman would do neither the one or the other.

--Gracious heaven!--but I forget I am a little of her temper myself; for whenever it so falls
out, which it sometimes does about the equinoxes, that an earthly goddess is so much this,
and that, and t'other, that I cannot eat my breakfast for her--and that she careth not three
halfpence whether I eat my breakfast or no--

--Curse on her! and so I send her to Tartary, and from Tartary to Terra del Fuogo, and so on
to the devil: in short, there is not an infernal nitch where I do not take her divinityship
and stick it.

But as the heart is tender, and the passions in these tides ebb and flow ten times in a minute,
I instantly bring her back again; and as I do all things in extremes, I place her in the very
center of the milky-way--

Brightest of stars! thou wilt shed thy influence upon some one--

--The duce take her and her influence too--for at that word I lose all patience--much good
may it do him!--By all that is hirsute and gashly! I cry, taking off my furr'd cap, and twisting
it round my finger--I would not give sixpence for a dozen such!

--But 'tis an excellent cap too (putting it upon my head, and pressing it close to my ears)--and
warm--and soft; especially if you stroke it the right way--but alas! that will never be my
luck--(so here my philosophy is shipwreck'd again.)

--No; I shall never have a finger in the pye (so here I break my
metaphor)--  Crust and Crumb
  Inside and out

Top and bottom--I detest it, I hate it, I repudiate it--I'm sick at the sight of it--

   'Tis all pepper,
   garlick,
   staragen,
   salt, and

devil's dung--by the great arch-cooks of cooks, who does nothing, I think, from morning to
night, but sit down by the fire-side and invent inflammatory dishes for us, I would not touch
it for the world--

--O Tristram! Tristram! cried Jenny.

O Jenny! Jenny! replied I, and so went on with the thirty-sixth chapter.

Chapter 4.XXXVI.

--'Not touch it for the world,' did I say--

Lord, how I have heated my imagination with this metaphor!

Chapter 4.XXXVII.

Which shews, let your reverences and worships say what you will of it (for as for thinking--all
who do think--think pretty much alike both upon it and other matters)--Love is certainly, at
least alphabetically speaking, one of the most

   A gitating
   B ewitching
   C onfounded
   D evilish affairs of life--the most
   E xtravagant
   F utilitous
   G alligaskinish
   H andy-dandyish
   I racundulous (there is no K to it) and
   L yrical of all human passions: at the same time, the most
   M isgiving
   N innyhammering
   O bstipating
   P ragmatical
   S tridulous
   R idiculous

--though by the bye the R should have gone first--But in short 'tis of such a nature, as my
father once told my uncle Toby upon the close of a long dissertation upon the subject--'You
can scarce,' said he, 'combine two ideas together upon it, brother Toby, without an hypallage'--What's
that? cried my uncle Toby.

The cart before the horse, replied my father--

--And what is he to do there? cried my uncle Toby.

Nothing, quoth my father, but to get in--or let it alone.

Now widow Wadman, as I told you before, would do neither the one or the other.

She stood however ready harnessed and caparisoned at all points, to watch accidents.

Chapter 4.XXXVIII.

The Fates, who certainly all fore-knew of these amours of widow Wadman and my uncle Toby, had,
from the first creation of matter and motion (and with more courtesy than they usually do things
of this kind), established such a chain of causes and effects hanging so fast to one another,
that it was scarce possible for my uncle Toby to have dwelt in any other house in the world,
or to have occupied any other garden in Christendom, but the very house and garden which join'd
and laid parallel to Mrs. Wadman's; this, with the advantage of a thickset arbour in Mrs. Wadman's
garden, but planted in the hedge-row of my uncle Toby's, put all the occasions into her hands
which Love-militancy wanted; she could observe my uncle Toby's motions, and was mistress likewise
of his councils of war; and as his unsuspecting heart had given leave to the corporal, through
the mediation of Bridget, to make her a wicker-gate of communication to enlarge her walks,
it enabled her to carry on her approaches to the very door of the sentry-box; and sometimes
out of gratitude, to make an attack, and endeavour to blow my uncle Toby up in the very sentry-box
itself.

Chapter 4.XXXIX.

It is a great pity--but 'tis certain from every day's observation of man, that he may be set
on fire like a candle, at either end--provided there is a sufficient wick standing out; if
there is not--there's an end of the affair; and if there is--by lighting it at the bottom,
as the flame in that case has the misfortune generally to put out itself--there's an end of
the affair again.

For my part, could I always have the ordering of it which way I would be burnt myself--for
I cannot bear the thoughts of being burnt like a beast--I would oblige a housewife constantly
to light me at the top; for then I should burn down decently to the socket; that is, from my
head to my heart, from my heart to my liver, from my liver to my bowels, and so on by the meseraick
veins and arteries, through all the turns and lateral insertions of the intestines and their
tunicles to the blind gut--

--I beseech you, doctor Slop, quoth my uncle Toby, interrupting him as he mentioned the blind
gut, in a discourse with my father the night my mother was brought to bed of me--I beseech
you, quoth my uncle Toby, to tell me which is the blind gut; for, old as I am, I vow I do not
know to this day where it lies.

The blind gut, answered doctor Slop, lies betwixt the Ilion and Colon--

In a man? said my father.

--'Tis precisely the same, cried doctor Slop, in a woman.--

That's more than I know; quoth my father.

Chapter 4.XL.

--And so to make sure of both systems, Mrs. Wadman predetermined to light my uncle Toby neither
at this end or that; but, like a prodigal's candle, to light him, if possible, at both ends
at once.

Now, through all the lumber rooms of military furniture, including both of horse and foot,
from the great arsenal of Venice to the Tower of London (exclusive), if Mrs. Wadman had been
rummaging for seven years together, and with Bridget to help her, she could not have found
any one blind or mantelet so fit for her purpose, as that which the expediency of my uncle
Toby's affairs had fix'd up ready to her hands.

I believe I have not told you--but I don't know--possibly I have--be it as it will, 'tis one
of the number of those many things, which a man had better do over again, than dispute about
it--That whatever town or fortress the corporal was at work upon, during the course of their
campaign, my uncle Toby always took care, on the inside of his sentry-box, which was towards
his left hand, to have a plan of the place, fasten'd up with two or three pins at the top,
but loose at the bottom, for the conveniency of holding it up to the eye, &c...as occasions
required; so that when an attack was resolved upon, Mrs. Wadman had nothing more to do, when
she had got advanced to the door of the sentry-box, but to extend her right hand; and edging
in her left foot at the same movement, to take hold of the map or plan, or upright, or whatever
it was, and with out-stretched neck meeting it half way,--to advance it towards her; on which
my uncle Toby's passions were sure to catch fire--for he would instantly take hold of the other
corner of the map in his left hand, and with the end of his pipe in the other, begin an explanation.

When the attack was advanced to this point;--the world will naturally enter into the reasons
of Mrs. Wadman's next stroke of generalship--which was, to take my uncle Toby's tobacco-pipe
out of his hand as soon as she possibly could; which, under one pretence or other, but generally
that of pointing more distinctly at some redoubt or breastwork in the map, she would effect
before my uncle Toby (poor soul!) had well march'd above half a dozen toises with it.

--It obliged my uncle Toby to make use of his forefinger.

The difference it made in the attack was this; That in going upon it, as in the first case,
with the end of her fore-finger against the end of my uncle Toby's tobacco-pipe, she might
have travelled with it, along the lines, from Dan to Beersheba, had my uncle Toby's lines reach'd
so far, without any effect: For as there was no arterial or vital heat in the end of the tobacco-pipe,
it could excite no sentiment--it could neither give fire by pulsation--or receive it by sympathy--'twas
nothing but smoke.

Whereas, in following my uncle Toby's forefinger with hers, close thro' all the little turns
and indentings of his works--pressing sometimes against the side of it--then treading upon
its nail--then tripping it up--then touching it here--then there, and so on--it set something
at least in motion.

This, tho' slight skirmishing, and at a distance from the main body, yet drew on the rest;
for here, the map usually falling with the back of it, close to the side of the sentry-box,
my uncle Toby, in the simplicity of his soul, would lay his hand flat upon it, in order to
go on with his explanation; and Mrs. Wadman, by a manoeuvre as quick as thought, would as certainly
place her's close beside it; this at once opened a communication, large enough for any sentiment
to pass or re-pass, which a person skill'd in the elementary and practical part of love-making,
has occasion for--

By bringing up her forefinger parallel (as before) to my uncle Toby's--it unavoidably brought
the thumb into action--and the forefinger and thumb being once engaged, as naturally brought
in the whole hand. Thine, dear uncle Toby! was never now in 'ts right place--Mrs. Wadman had
it ever to take up, or, with the gentlest pushings, protrusions, and equivocal compressions,
that a hand to be removed is capable of receiving--to get it press'd a hair breadth of one
side out of her way.

Whilst this was doing, how could she forget to make him sensible, that it was her leg (and
no one's else) at the bottom of the sentry-box, which slightly press'd against the calf of
his--So that my uncle Toby being thus attack'd and sore push'd on both his wings--was it a
wonder, if now and then, it put his centre into disorder?--

--The duce take it! said my uncle Toby.

Chapter 4.XLI.

These attacks of Mrs. Wadman, you will readily conceive to be of different kinds; varying from
each other, like the attacks which history is full of, and from the same reasons. A general
looker-on would scarce allow them to be attacks at all--or if he did, would confound them all
together--but I write not to them: it will be time enough to be a little more exact in my descriptions
of them, as I come up to them, which will not be for some chapters; having nothing more to
add in this, but that in a bundle of original papers and drawings which my father took care
to roll up by themselves, there is a plan of Bouchain in perfect preservation (and shall be
kept so, whilst I have power to preserve any thing), upon the lower corner of which, on the
right hand side, there is still remaining the marks of a snuffy finger and thumb, which there
is all the reason in the world to imagine, were Mrs. Wadman's; for the opposite side of the
margin, which I suppose to have been my uncle Toby's, is absolutely clean: This seems an authenticated
record of one of these attacks; for there are vestigia of the two punctures partly grown up,
but still visible on the opposite corner of the map, which are unquestionably the very holes,
through which it has been pricked up in the sentry-box--

By all that is priestly! I value this precious relick, with its stigmata and pricks, more than
all the relicks of the Romish church--always excepting, when I am writing upon these matters,
the pricks which entered the flesh of St. Radagunda in the desert, which in your road from
Fesse to Cluny, the nuns of that name will shew you for love.

Chapter 4.XLII.

I think, an' please your honour, quoth Trim, the fortifications are quite destroyed--and the
bason is upon a level with the mole--I think so too; replied my uncle Toby with a sigh half
suppress'd--but step into the parlour, Trim, for the stipulation--it lies upon the table.

It has lain there these six weeks, replied the corporal, till this very morning that the old
woman kindled the fire with it--

--Then, said my uncle Toby, there is no further occasion for our services. The more, an' please
your honour, the pity, said the corporal; in uttering which he cast his spade into the wheel-barrow,
which was beside him, with an air the most expressive of disconsolation that can be imagined,
and was heavily turning about to look for his pickax, his pioneer's shovel, his picquets, and
other little military stores, in order to carry them off the field--when a heigh-ho! from the
sentry-box, which being made of thin slit deal, reverberated the sound more sorrowfully to
his ear, forbad him.

--No; said the corporal to himself, I'll do it before his honour rises to-morrow morning; so
taking his spade out of the wheel-barrow again, with a little earth in it, as if to level something
at the foot of the glacis--but with a real intent to approach nearer to his master, in order
to divert him--he loosen'd a sod or two--pared their edges with his spade, and having given
them a gentle blow or two with the back of it, he sat himself down close by my uncle Toby's
feet and began as follows.

Chapter 4.XLIII.

It was a thousand pities--though I believe, an' please your honour, I am going to say but a
foolish kind of a thing for a soldier--

A soldier, cried my uncle Toby, interrupting the corporal, is no more exempt from saying a
foolish thing, Trim, than a man of letters--But not so often, an' please your honour, replied
the corporal--my uncle Toby gave a nod.

It was a thousand pities then, said the corporal, casting his eye upon Dunkirk, and the mole,
as Servius Sulpicius, in returning out of Asia (when he sailed from Aegina towards Megara),
did upon Corinth and Pyreus--

--'It was a thousand pities, an' please your honour, to destroy these works--and a thousand
pities to have let them stood.'--

--Thou art right, Trim, in both cases; said my uncle Toby.--This, continued the corporal, is
the reason, that from the beginning of their demolition to the end--I have never once whistled,
or sung, or laugh'd, or cry'd, or talk'd of past done deeds, or told your honour one story
good or bad--

--Thou hast many excellencies, Trim, said my uncle Toby, and I hold it not the least of them,
as thou happenest to be a story-teller, that of the number thou hast told me, either to amuse
me in my painful hours, or divert me in my grave ones--thou hast seldom told me a bad one--

--Because, an' please your honour, except one of a King of Bohemia and his seven castles,--they
are all true; for they are about myself--

I do not like the subject the worse, Trim, said my uncle Toby, on that score: But prithee what
is this story? thou hast excited my curiosity.

I'll tell it your honour, quoth the corporal, directly--Provided, said my uncle Toby, looking
earnestly towards Dunkirk and the mole again--provided it is not a merry one; to such, Trim,
a man should ever bring one half of the entertainment along with him; and the disposition I
am in at present would wrong both thee, Trim, and thy story--It is not a merry one by any means,
replied the corporal--Nor would I have it altogether a grave one, added my uncle Toby--It is
neither the one nor the other, replied the corporal, but will suit your honour exactly--Then
I'll thank thee for it with all my heart, cried my uncle Toby; so prithee begin it, Trim.

The corporal made his reverence; and though it is not so easy a matter as the world imagines,
to pull off a lank Montero-cap with grace--or a whit less difficult, in my conceptions, when
a man is sitting squat upon the ground, to make a bow so teeming with respect as the corporal
was wont; yet by suffering the palm of his right hand, which was towards his master, to slip
backwards upon the grass, a little beyond his body, in order to allow it the greater sweep--and
by an unforced compression, at the same time, of his cap with the thumb and the two forefingers
of his left, by which the diameter of the cap became reduced, so that it might be said, rather
to be insensibly squeez'd--than pull'd off with a flatus--the corporal acquitted himself of
both in a better manner than the posture of his affairs promised; and having hemmed twice,
to find in what key his story would best go, and best suit his master's humour,--he exchanged
a single look of kindness with him, and set off thus.

The Story of the King of Bohemia and His Seven Castles.

There was a certain king of Bo...he--As the corporal was entering the confines of Bohemia,
my uncle Toby obliged him to halt for a single moment; he had set out bare-headed, having,
since he pull'd off his Montero-cap in the latter end of the last chapter, left it lying beside
him on the ground.

--The eye of Goodness espieth all things--so that before the corporal had well got through
the first five words of his story, had my uncle Toby twice touch'd his Montero-cap with the
end of his cane, interrogatively--as much as to say, Why don't you put it on, Trim? Trim took
it up with the most respectful slowness, and casting a glance of humiliation as he did it,
upon the embroidery of the fore-part, which being dismally tarnish'd and fray'd moreover in
some of the principal leaves and boldest parts of the pattern, he lay'd it down again between
his two feet, in order to moralize upon the subject.

--'Tis every word of it but too true, cried my uncle Toby, that thou art about to observe--

'Nothing in this world, Trim, is made to last for ever.'

--But when tokens, dear Tom, of thy love and remembrance wear out, said Trim, what shall we say?

There is no occasion, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, to say any thing else; and was a man to puzzle
his brains till Doom's day, I believe, Trim, it would be impossible.

The corporal, perceiving my uncle Toby was in the right, and that it would be in vain for the
wit of man to think of extracting a purer moral from his cap, without further attempting it,
he put it on; and passing his hand across his forehead to rub out a pensive wrinkle, which
the text and the doctrine between them had engender'd, he return'd, with the same look and
tone of voice, to his story of the king of Bohemia and his seven castles.

The Story of the King of Bohemia and His Seven Castles, Continued.

There was a certain king of Bohemia, but in whose reign, except his own, I am not able to inform
your honour--

I do not desire it of thee, Trim, by any means, cried my uncle Toby.

--It was a little before the time, an' please your honour, when giants were beginning to leave
off breeding:--but in what year of our Lord that was--

I would not give a halfpenny to know, said my uncle Toby.

--Only, an' please your honour, it makes a story look the better in the face--

--'Tis thy own, Trim, so ornament it after thy own fashion; and take any date, continued my
uncle Toby, looking pleasantly upon him--take any date in the whole world thou chusest, and
put it to--thou art heartily welcome--

The corporal bowed; for of every century, and of every year of that century, from the first
creation of the world down to Noah's flood; and from Noah's flood to the birth of Abraham;
through all the pilgrimages of the patriarchs, to the departure of the Israelites out of Egypt--and
throughout all the Dynasties, Olympiads, Urbeconditas, and other memorable epochas of the different
nations of the world, down to the coming of Christ, and from thence to the very moment in which
the corporal was telling his story--had my uncle Toby subjected this vast empire of time and
all its abysses at his feet; but as Modesty scarce touches with a finger what Liberality offers
her with both hands open--the corporal contented himself with the very worst year of the whole
bunch; which, to prevent your honours of the Majority and Minority from tearing the very flesh
off your bones in contestation, 'Whether that year is not always the last cast-year of the
last cast-almanack'--I tell you plainly it was; but from a different reason than you wot of--

--It was the year next him--which being the year of our Lord seventeen hundred and twelve,
when the Duke of Ormond was playing the devil in Flanders--the corporal took it, and set out
with it afresh on his expedition to Bohemia.

The Story of the King of Bohemia and His Seven Castles, Continued.

In the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and twelve, there was, an' please your honour--

--To tell thee truly, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, any other date would have pleased me much
better, not only on account of the sad stain upon our history that year, in marching off our
troops, and refusing to cover the siege of Quesnoi, though Fagel was carrying on the works
with such incredible vigour--but likewise on the score, Trim, of thy own story; because if
there are--and which, from what thou hast dropt, I partly suspect to be the fact--if there
are giants in it--

There is but one, an' please your honour--

--'Tis as bad as twenty, replied my uncle Toby--thou should'st have carried him back some seven
or eight hundred years out of harm's way, both of critics and other people: and therefore I
would advise thee, if ever thou tellest it again--

--If I live, an' please your honour, but once to get through it, I will never tell it again,
quoth Trim, either to man, woman, or child--Poo--poo! said my uncle Toby--but with accents
of such sweet encouragement did he utter it, that the corporal went on with his story with
more alacrity than ever.

The Story of the King of Bohemia and His Seven Castles, Continued.

There was, an' please your honour, said the corporal, raising his voice and rubbing the palms
of his two hands cheerily together as he begun, a certain king of Bohemia--

--Leave out the date entirely, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby, leaning forwards, and laying his
hand gently upon the corporal's shoulder to temper the interruption--leave it out entirely,
Trim; a story passes very well without these niceties, unless one is pretty sure of 'em--Sure
of 'em! said the corporal, shaking his head--

Right; answered my uncle Toby, it is not easy, Trim, for one, bred up as thou and I have been
to arms, who seldom looks further forward than to the end of his musket, or backwards beyond
his knapsack, to know much about this matter--God bless your honour! said the corporal, won
by the manner of my uncle Toby's reasoning, as much as by the reasoning itself, he has something
else to do; if not on action, or a march, or upon duty in his garrison--he has his firelock,
an' please your honour, to furbish--his accoutrements to take care of--his regimentals to mend--himself
to shave and keep clean, so as to appear always like what he is upon the parade; what business,
added the corporal triumphantly, has a soldier, an' please your honour, to know any thing at
all of geography?

--Thou would'st have said chronology, Trim, said my uncle Toby; for as for geography, 'tis
of absolute use to him; he must be acquainted intimately with every country and its boundaries
where his profession carries him; he should know every town and city, and village and hamlet,
with the canals, the roads, and hollow ways which lead up to them; there is not a river or
a rivulet he passes, Trim, but he should be able at first sight to tell thee what is its name--in
what mountains it takes its rise--what is its course--how far it is navigable--where fordable--where
not; he should know the fertility of every valley, as well as the hind who ploughs it; and
be able to describe, or, if it is required, to give thee an exact map of all the plains and
defiles, the forts, the acclivities, the woods and morasses, thro' and by which his army is
to march; he should know their produce, their plants, their minerals, their waters, their animals,
their seasons, their climates, their heats and cold, their inhabitants, their customs, their
language, their policy, and even their religion.

Is it else to be conceived, corporal, continued my uncle Toby, rising up in his sentry-box,
as he began to warm in this part of his discourse--how Marlborough could have marched his army
from the banks of the Maes to Belburg; from Belburg to Kerpenord--(here the corporal could
sit no longer) from Kerpenord, Trim, to Kalsaken; from Kalsaken to Newdorf; from Newdorf to
Landenbourg; from Landenbourg to Mildenheim; from Mildenheim to Elchingen; from Elchingen to
Gingen; from Gingen to Balmerchoffen; from Balmerchoffen to Skellenburg, where he broke in
upon the enemy's works; forced his passage over the Danube; cross'd the Lech--push'd on his
troops into the heart of the empire, marching at the head of them through Fribourg, Hokenwert,
and Schonevelt, to the plains of Blenheim and Hochstet?--Great as he was, corporal, he could
not have advanced a step, or made one single day's march without the aids of Geography.--As
for Chronology, I own, Trim, continued my uncle Toby, sitting down again coolly in his sentry-box,
that of all others, it seems a science which the soldier might best spare, was it not for the
lights which that science must one day give him, in determining the invention of powder; the
furious execution of which, renversing every thing like thunder before it, has become a new
aera to us of military improvements, changing so totally the nature of attacks and defences
both by sea and land, and awakening so much art and skill in doing it, that the world cannot
be too exact in ascertaining the precise time of its discovery, or too inquisitive in knowing
what great man was the discoverer, and what occasions gave birth to it.

I am far from controverting, continued my uncle Toby, what historians agree in, that in the
year of our Lord 1380, under the reign of Wencelaus, son of Charles the Fourth--a certain priest,
whose name was Schwartz, shew'd the use of powder to the Venetians, in their wars against the
Genoese; but 'tis certain he was not the first; because if we are to believe Don Pedro, the
bishop of Leon--How came priests and bishops, an' please your honour, to trouble their heads
so much about gun-powder? God knows, said my uncle Toby--his providence brings good out of
every thing--and he avers, in his chronicle of King Alphonsus, who reduced Toledo, That in
the year 1343, which was full thirty-seven years before that time, the secret of powder was
well known, and employed with success, both by Moors and Christians, not only in their sea-combats,
at that period, but in many of their most memorable sieges in Spain and Barbary--And all the
world knows, that Friar Bacon had wrote expressly about it, and had generously given the world
a receipt to make it by, above a hundred and fifty years before even Schwartz was born--And
that the Chinese, added my uncle Toby, embarrass us, and all accounts of it, still more, by
boasting of the invention some hundreds of years even before him--

They are a pack of liars, I believe, cried Trim--

--They are somehow or other deceived, said my uncle Toby, in this matter, as is plain to me
from the present miserable state of military architecture amongst them; which consists of nothing
more than a fosse with a brick wall without flanks--and for what they gave us as a bastion
at each angle of it, 'tis so barbarously constructed, that it looks for all the world--Like
one of my seven castles, an' please your honour, quoth Trim.

This unfortunate King of Bohemia, said Trim,--Was he unfortunate, then? cried my uncle Toby,
for he had been so wrapt up in his dissertation upon gun-powder, and other military affairs,
that tho' he had desired the corporal to go on, yet the many interruptions he had given, dwelt
not so strong upon his fancy as to account for the epithet--Was he unfortunate, then, Trim?
said my uncle Toby, pathetically--The corporal, wishing first the word and all its synonimas
at the devil, forthwith began to run back in his mind, the principal events in the King of
Bohemia's story; from every one of which, it appearing that he was the most fortunate man that
ever existed in the world--it put the corporal to a stand: for not caring to retract his epithet--and
less to explain it--and least of all, to twist his tale (like men of lore) to serve a system--he
looked up in my uncle Toby's face for assistance--but seeing it was the very thing my uncle
Toby sat in expectation of himself--after a hum and a haw, he went on--

The King of Bohemia, an' please your honour, replied the corporal, was unfortunate, as thus--That
taking great pleasure and delight in navigation and all sort of sea affairs--and there happening
throughout the whole kingdom of Bohemia, to be no sea-port town whatever--

How the duce should there--Trim? cried my uncle Toby; for Bohemia being totally inland, it
could have happen'd no otherwise--It might, said Trim, if it had pleased God--

My uncle Toby never spoke of the being and natural attributes of God, but with diffidence and
hesitation--

--I believe not, replied my uncle Toby, after some pause--for being inland, as I said, and
having Silesia and Moravia to the east; Lusatia and Upper Saxony to the north; Franconia to
the west; and Bavaria to the south; Bohemia could not have been propell'd to the sea without
ceasing to be Bohemia--nor could the sea, on the other hand, have come up to Bohemia, without
overflowing a great part of Germany, and destroying millions of unfortunate inhabitants who
could make no defence against it--Scandalous! cried Trim--Which would bespeak, added my uncle
Toby, mildly, such a want of compassion in him who is the father of it--that, I think, Trim--the
thing could have happen'd no way.

The corporal made the bow of unfeign'd conviction; and went on.

Now the King of Bohemia with his queen and courtiers happening one fine summer's evening to
walk out--Aye! there the word happening is right, Trim, cried my uncle Toby; for the King of
Bohemia and his queen might have walk'd out or let it alone:--'twas a matter of contingency,
which might happen, or not, just as chance ordered it.

King William was of an opinion, an' please your honour, quoth Trim, that every thing was predestined
for us in this world; insomuch, that he would often say to his soldiers, that 'every ball had
its billet.' He was a great man, said my uncle Toby--And I believe, continued Trim, to this
day, that the shot which disabled me at the battle of Landen, was pointed at my knee for no
other purpose, but to take me out of his service, and place me in your honour's, where I should
be taken so much better care of in my old age--It shall never, Trim, be construed otherwise,
said my uncle Toby.

The heart, both of the master and the man, were alike subject to sudden over-flowings;--a short
silence ensued.

Besides, said the corporal, resuming the discourse--but in a gayer accent--if it had not been
for that single shot, I had never, 'an please your honour, been in love--

So, thou wast once in love, Trim! said my uncle Toby, smiling--

Souse! replied the corporal--over head and ears! an' please your honour. Prithee when? where?--and
how came it to pass?--I never heard one word of it before; quoth my uncle Toby:--I dare say,
answered Trim, that every drummer and serjeant's son in the regiment knew of it--It's high
time I should--said my uncle Toby.

Your honour remembers with concern, said the corporal, the total rout and confusion of our
camp and army at the affair of Landen; every one was left to shift for himself; and if it had
not been for the regiments of Wyndham, Lumley, and Galway, which covered the retreat over the
bridge Neerspeeken, the king himself could scarce have gained it--he was press'd hard, as your
honour knows, on every side of him--

Gallant mortal! cried my uncle Toby, caught up with enthusiasm--this moment, now that all is
lost, I see him galloping across me, corporal, to the left, to bring up the remains of the
English horse along with him to support the right, and tear the laurel from Luxembourg's brows,
if yet 'tis possible--I see him with the knot of his scarfe just shot off, infusing fresh spirits
into poor Galway's regiment--riding along the line--then wheeling about, and charging Conti
at the head of it--Brave, brave, by heaven! cried my uncle Toby--he deserves a crown--As richly,
as a thief a halter; shouted Trim.

My uncle Toby knew the corporal's loyalty;--otherwise the comparison was not at all to his
mind--it did not altogether strike the corporal's fancy when he had made it--but it could not
be recall'd--so he had nothing to do, but proceed.

As the number of wounded was prodigious, and no one had time to think of any thing but his
own safety--Though Talmash, said my uncle Toby, brought off the foot with great prudence--But
I was left upon the field, said the corporal. Thou wast so; poor fellow! replied my uncle Toby--So
that it was noon the next day, continued the corporal, before I was exchanged, and put into
a cart with thirteen or fourteen more, in order to be convey'd to our hospital.

There is no part of the body, an' please your honour, where a wound occasions more intolerable
anguish than upon the knee--

Except the groin; said my uncle Toby. An' please your honour, replied the corporal, the knee,
in my opinion, must certainly be the most acute, there being so many tendons and what-d'ye-call-'ems
all about it.

It is for that reason, quoth my uncle Toby, that the groin is infinitely more sensible--there
being not only as many tendons and what-d'ye-call-'ems (for I know their names as little as
thou dost)--about it--but moreover ...--

Mrs. Wadman, who had been all the time in her arbour--instantly stopp'd her breath--unpinn'd
her mob at the chin, and stood upon one leg--

The dispute was maintained with amicable and equal force betwixt my uncle Toby and Trim for
some time; till Trim at length recollecting that he had often cried at his master's sufferings,
but never shed a tear at his own--was for giving up the point, which my uncle Toby would not
allow--'Tis a proof of nothing, Trim, said he, but the generosity of thy temper--

So that whether the pain of a wound in the groin (caeteris paribus) is greater than the pain
of a wound in the knee--or

Whether the pain of a wound in the knee is not greater than the pain of a wound in the groin--are
points which to this day remain unsettled.

Chapter 4.XLIV.

The anguish of my knee, continued the corporal, was excessive in itself; and the uneasiness
of the cart, with the roughness of the roads, which were terribly cut up--making bad still
worse--every step was death to me: so that with the loss of blood, and the want of care-taking
of me, and a fever I felt coming on besides--(Poor soul! said my uncle Toby)--all together,
an' please your honour, was more than I could sustain.

I was telling my sufferings to a young woman at a peasant's house, where our cart, which was
the last of the line, had halted; they had help'd me in, and the young woman had taken a cordial
out of her pocket and dropp'd it upon some sugar, and seeing it had cheer'd me, she had given
it me a second and a third time--So I was telling her, an' please your honour, the anguish
I was in, and was saying it was so intolerable to me, that I had much rather lie down upon
the bed, turning my face towards one which was in the corner of the room--and die, than go
on--when, upon her attempting to lead me to it, I fainted away in her arms. She was a good
soul! as your honour, said the corporal, wiping his eyes, will hear.

I thought love had been a joyous thing, quoth my uncle Toby.

'Tis the most serious thing, an' please your honour (sometimes), that is in the world.

By the persuasion of the young woman, continued the corporal, the cart with the wounded men
set off without me: she had assured them I should expire immediately if I was put into the
cart. So when I came to myself--I found myself in a still quiet cottage, with no one but the
young woman, and the peasant and his wife. I was laid across the bed in the corner of the room,
with my wounded leg upon a chair, and the young woman beside me, holding the corner of her
handkerchief dipp'd in vinegar to my nose with one hand, and rubbing my temples with the other.

I took her at first for the daughter of the peasant (for it was no inn)--so had offer'd her
a little purse with eighteen florins, which my poor brother Tom (here Trim wip'd his eyes)
had sent me as a token, by a recruit, just before he set out for Lisbon--

--I never told your honour that piteous story yet--here Trim wiped his eyes a third time.

The young woman call'd the old man and his wife into the room, to shew them the money, in order
to gain me credit for a bed and what little necessaries I should want, till I should be in
a condition to be got to the hospital--Come then! said she, tying up the little purse--I'll
be your banker--but as that office alone will not keep me employ'd, I'll be your nurse too.

I thought by her manner of speaking this, as well as by her dress, which I then began to consider
more attentively--that the young woman could not be the daughter of the peasant.

She was in black down to her toes, with her hair conceal'd under a cambric border, laid close
to her forehead: she was one of those kind of nuns, an' please your honour, of which, your
honour knows, there are a good many in Flanders, which they let go loose--By thy description,
Trim, said my uncle Toby, I dare say she was a young Beguine, of which there are none to be
found any where but in the Spanish Netherlands--except at Amsterdam--they differ from nuns
in this, that they can quit their cloister if they choose to marry; they visit and take care
of the sick by profession--I had rather, for my own part, they did it out of good-nature.

--She often told me, quoth Trim, she did it for the love of Christ--I did not like it.--I believe,
Trim, we are both wrong, said my uncle Toby--we'll ask Mr. Yorick about it to-night at my brother
Shandy's--so put me in mind; added my uncle Toby.

The young Beguine, continued the corporal, had scarce given herself time to tell me 'she would
be my nurse,' when she hastily turned about to begin the office of one, and prepare something
for me--and in a short time--though I thought it a long one--she came back with flannels, &c.
&c. and having fomented my knee soundly for a couple of hours, &c. and made me a thin bason
of gruel for my supper--she wish'd me rest, and promised to be with me early in the morning.--She
wish'd me, an' please your honour, what was not to be had. My fever ran very high that night--her
figure made sad disturbance within me--I was every moment cutting the world in two--to give
her half of it--and every moment was I crying, That I had nothing but a knapsack and eighteen
florins to share with her--The whole night long was the fair Beguine, like an angel, close
by my bed-side, holding back my curtain and offering me cordials--and I was only awakened from
my dream by her coming there at the hour promised, and giving them in reality. In truth, she
was scarce ever from me; and so accustomed was I to receive life from her hands, that my heart
sickened, and I lost colour when she left the room: and yet, continued the corporal (making
one of the strangest reflections upon it in the world)----'It was not love'--for during the
three weeks she was almost constantly with me, fomenting my knee with her hand, night and day--I
can honestly say, an' please your honour--that...once.

That was very odd, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby.

I think so too--said Mrs. Wadman.

It never did, said the corporal.

Chapter 4.XLV.

--But 'tis no marvel, continued the corporal--seeing my uncle Toby musing upon it--for Love,
an' please your honour, is exactly like war, in this; that a soldier, though he has escaped
three weeks complete o'Saturday night,--may nevertheless be shot through his heart on Sunday
morning--It happened so here, an' please your honour, with this difference only--that it was
on Sunday in the afternoon, when I fell in love all at once with a sisserara--It burst upon
me, an' please your honour, like a bomb--scarce giving me time to say, 'God bless me.'

I thought, Trim, said my uncle Toby, a man never fell in love so very suddenly.

Yes, an' please your honour, if he is in the way of it--replied Trim.

I prithee, quoth my uncle Toby, inform me how this matter happened.

--With all pleasure, said the corporal, making a bow.

Chapter 4.XLVI.

I had escaped, continued the corporal, all that time from falling in love, and had gone on
to the end of the chapter, had it not been predestined otherwise--there is no resisting our fate.

It was on a Sunday, in the afternoon, as I told your honour.

The old man and his wife had walked out--

Every thing was still and hush as midnight about the house--

There was not so much as a duck or a duckling about the yard--

--When the fair Beguine came in to see me.

My wound was then in a fair way of doing well--the inflammation had been gone off for some
time, but it was succeeded with an itching both above and below my knee, so insufferable, that
I had not shut my eyes the whole night for it.

Let me see it, said she, kneeling down upon the ground parallel to my knee, and laying her
hand upon the part below it--it only wants rubbing a little, said the Beguine; so covering
it with the bed-clothes, she began with the fore-finger of her right hand to rub under my knee,
guiding her fore-finger backwards and forwards by the edge of the flannel which kept on the
dressing.

In five or six minutes I felt slightly the end of her second finger--and presently it was laid
flat with the other, and she continued rubbing in that way round and round for a good while;
it then came into my head, that I should fall in love--I blush'd when I saw how white a hand
she had--I shall never, an' please your honour, behold another hand so white whilst I live--

--Not in that place, said my uncle Toby--

Though it was the most serious despair in nature to the corporal--he could not forbear smiling.

The young Beguine, continued the corporal, perceiving it was of great service to me--from rubbing
for some time, with two fingers--proceeded to rub at length, with three--till by little and
little she brought down the fourth, and then rubb'd with her whole hand: I will never say another
word, an' please your honour, upon hands again--but it was softer than sattin--

--Prithee, Trim, commend it as much as thou wilt, said my uncle Toby; I shall hear thy story
with the more delight--The corporal thank'd his master most unfeignedly; but having nothing
to say upon the Beguine's hand but the same over again--he proceeded to the effects of it.

The fair Beguine, said the corporal, continued rubbing with her whole hand under my knee--till
I fear'd her zeal would weary her--'I would do a thousand times more,' said she, 'for the love
of Christ'--In saying which, she pass'd her hand across the flannel, to the part above my knee,
which I had equally complain'd of, and rubb'd it also.

I perceiv'd, then, I was beginning to be in love--

As she continued rub-rub-rubbing--I felt it spread from under her hand, an' please your honour,
to every part of my frame--

The more she rubb'd, and the longer strokes she took--the more the fire kindled in my veins--till
at length, by two or three strokes longer than the rest--my passion rose to the highest pitch--I
seiz'd her hand--

--And then thou clapped'st it to thy lips, Trim, said my uncle Toby--and madest a speech.

Whether the corporal's amour terminated precisely in the way my uncle Toby described it, is
not material; it is enough that it contained in it the essence of all the love romances which
ever have been wrote since the beginning of the world.

Chapter 4.XLVII.

As soon as the corporal had finished the story of his amour--or rather my uncle Toby for him--Mrs.
Wadman silently sallied forth from her arbour, replaced the pin in her mob, pass'd the wicker
gate, and advanced slowly towards my uncle Toby's sentry-box: the disposition which Trim had
made in my uncle Toby's mind, was too favourable a crisis to be let slipp'd--

--The attack was determin'd upon: it was facilitated still more by my uncle Toby's having ordered
the corporal to wheel off the pioneer's shovel, the spade, the pick-axe, the picquets, and
other military stores which lay scatter'd upon the ground where Dunkirk stood--The corporal
had march'd--the field was clear.

Now, consider, sir, what nonsense it is, either in fighting, or writing, or any thing else
(whether in rhyme to it, or not) which a man has occasion to do--to act by plan: for if ever
Plan, independent of all circumstances, deserved registering in letters of gold (I mean in
the archives of Gotham)--it was certainly the Plan of Mrs. Wadman's attack of my uncle Toby
in his sentry-box, By Plan--Now the plan hanging up in it at this juncture, being the Plan
of Dunkirk--and the tale of Dunkirk a tale of relaxation, it opposed every impression she could
make: and besides, could she have gone upon it--the manoeuvre of fingers and hands in the attack
of the sentry-box, was so outdone by that of the fair Beguine's, in Trim's story--that just
then, that particular attack, however successful before--became the most heartless attack that
could be made--

O! let woman alone for this. Mrs. Wadman had scarce open'd the wicker-gate, when her genius
sported with the change of circumstances.

--She formed a new attack in a moment.

Chapter 4.XLVIII.

--I am half distracted, captain Shandy, said Mrs. Wadman, holding up her cambrick handkerchief
to her left eye, as she approach'd the door of my uncle Toby's sentry-box--a mote--or sand--or
something--I know not what, has got into this eye of mine--do look into it--it is not in the
white--

In saying which, Mrs. Wadman edged herself close in beside my uncle Toby, and squeezing herself
down upon the corner of his bench, she gave him an opportunity of doing it without rising up--Do
look into it--said she.

Honest soul! thou didst look into it with as much innocency of heart, as ever child look'd
into a raree-shew-box; and 'twere as much a sin to have hurt thee.

--If a man will be peeping of his own accord into things of that nature--I've nothing to say
to it--

My uncle Toby never did: and I will answer for him, that he would have sat quietly upon a sofa
from June to January (which, you know, takes in both the hot and cold months), with an eye
as fine as the Thracian Rodope's (Rodope Thracia tam inevitabili fascino instructa, tam exacte
oculus intuens attraxit, ut si in illam quis incidisset, fieri non posset, quin caperetur.--I
know not who.) besides him, without being able to tell, whether it was a black or blue one.

The difficulty was to get my uncle Toby, to look at one at all.

'Tis surmounted. And

I see him yonder with his pipe pendulous in his hand, and the ashes falling out of it--looking--and
looking--then rubbing his eyes--and looking again, with twice the good-nature that ever Galileo
look'd for a spot in the sun.

--In vain! for by all the powers which animate the organ--Widow Wadman's left eye shines this
moment as lucid as her right--there is neither mote, or sand, or dust, or chaff, or speck,
or particle of opake matter floating in it--There is nothing, my dear paternal uncle! but one
lambent delicious fire, furtively shooting out from every part of it, in all directions, into
thine--

--If thou lookest, uncle Toby, in search of this mote one moment longer,--thou art undone.

Chapter 4.XLIX.

An eye is for all the world exactly like a cannon, in this respect; That it is not so much
the eye or the cannon, in themselves, as it is the carriage of the eye--and the carriage of
the cannon, by which both the one and the other are enabled to do so much execution. I don't
think the comparison a bad one: However, as 'tis made and placed at the head of the chapter,
as much for use as ornament, all I desire in return, is, that whenever I speak of Mrs. Wadman's
eyes (except once in the next period), that you keep it in your fancy.

I protest, Madam, said my uncle Toby, I can see nothing whatever in your eye.

It is not in the white; said Mrs. Wadman: my uncle Toby look'd with might and main into the pupil--

Now of all the eyes which ever were created--from your own, Madam, up to those of Venus herself,
which certainly were as venereal a pair of eyes as ever stood in a head--there never was an
eye of them all, so fitted to rob my uncle Toby of his repose, as the very eye, at which he
was looking--it was not, Madam a rolling eye--a romping or a wanton one--nor was it an eye
sparkling--petulant or imperious--of high claims and terrifying exactions, which would have
curdled at once that milk of human nature, of which my uncle Toby was made up--but 'twas an
eye full of gentle salutations--and soft responses--speaking--not like the trumpet stop of
some ill-made organ, in which many an eye I talk to, holds coarse converse--but whispering
soft--like the last low accent of an expiring saint--'How can you live comfortless, captain
Shandy, and alone, without a bosom to lean your head on--or trust your cares to?'

It was an eye--

But I shall be in love with it myself, if I say another word about it.

--It did my uncle Toby's business.

Chapter 4.L.

There is nothing shews the character of my father and my uncle Toby, in a more entertaining
light, than their different manner of deportment, under the same accident--for I call not love
a misfortune, from a persuasion, that a man's heart is ever the better for it--Great God! what
must my uncle Toby's have been, when 'twas all benignity without it.

My father, as appears from many of his papers, was very subject to this passion, before he
married--but from a little subacid kind of drollish impatience in his nature, whenever it befell
him, he would never submit to it like a christian; but would pish, and huff, and bounce, and
kick, and play the Devil, and write the bitterest Philippicks against the eye that ever man
wrote--there is one in verse upon somebody's eye or other, that for two or three nights together,
had put him by his rest; which in his first transport of resentment against it, he begins thus:

   'A Devil 'tis--and mischief such doth work
   As never yet did Pagan, Jew, or Turk.'

(This will be printed with my father's Life of Socrates, &c. &c.)

In short, during the whole paroxism, my father was all abuse and foul language, approaching
rather towards malediction--only he did not do it with as much method as Ernulphus--he was
too impetuous; nor with Ernulphus's policy--for tho' my father, with the most intolerant spirit,
would curse both this and that, and every thing under heaven, which was either aiding or abetting
to his love--yet never concluded his chapter of curses upon it, without cursing himself in
at the bargain, as one of the most egregious fools and cox-combs, he would say, that ever was
let loose in the world.

My uncle Toby, on the contrary, took it like a lamb--sat still and let the poison work in his
veins without resistance--in the sharpest exacerbations of his wound (like that on his groin)
he never dropt one fretful or discontented word--he blamed neither heaven nor earth--or thought
or spoke an injurious thing of any body, or any part of it; he sat solitary and pensive with
his pipe--looking at his lame leg--then whiffing out a sentimental heigh ho! which mixing with
the smoke, incommoded no one mortal.

He took it like a lamb--I say.

In truth he had mistook it at first; for having taken a ride with my father, that very morning,
to save if possible a beautiful wood, which the dean and chapter were hewing down to give to
the poor (Mr. Shandy must mean the poor in spirit; inasmuch as they divided the money amongst
themselves.); which said wood being in full view of my uncle Toby's house, and of singular
service to him in his description of the battle of Wynnendale--by trotting on too hastily to
save it--upon an uneasy saddle--worse horse, &c. &c...it had so happened, that the serous part
of the blood had got betwixt the two skins, in the nethermost part of my uncle Toby--the first
shootings of which (as my uncle Toby had no experience of love) he had taken for a part of
the passion--till the blister breaking in the one case--and the other remaining--my uncle Toby
was presently convinced, that his wound was not a skin-deep wound--but that it had gone to
his heart.

Chapter 4.LI.

The world is ashamed of being virtuous--my uncle Toby knew little of the world; and therefore
when he felt he was in love with widow Wadman, he had no conception that the thing was any
more to be made a mystery of, than if Mrs. Wadman had given him a cut with a gap'd knife across
his finger: Had it been otherwise--yet as he ever look'd upon Trim as a humble friend; and
saw fresh reasons every day of his life, to treat him as such--it would have made no variation
in the manner in which he informed him of the affair.

'I am in love, corporal!' quoth my uncle Toby.

Chapter 4.LII.

In love!--said the corporal--your honour was very well the day before yesterday, when I was
telling your honour of the story of the King of Bohemia--Bohemia! said my uncle Toby...musing
a long time...What became of that story, Trim?

--We lost it, an' please your honour, somehow betwixt us--but your honour was as free from
love then, as I am--'twas just whilst thou went'st off with the wheel-barrow--with Mrs. Wadman,
quoth my uncle Toby--She has left a ball here--added my uncle Toby--pointing to his breast--

--She can no more, an' please your honour, stand a siege, than she can fly--cried the corporal--

--But as we are neighbours, Trim,--the best way I think is to let her know it civilly first--quoth
my uncle Toby.

Now if I might presume, said the corporal, to differ from your honour--

--Why else do I talk to thee, Trim? said my uncle Toby, mildly--

--Then I would begin, an' please your honour, with making a good thundering attack upon her,
in return--and telling her civilly afterwards--for if she knows any thing of your honour's
being in love, before hand--L..d help her!--she knows no more at present of it, Trim, said
my uncle Toby--than the child unborn--

Precious souls--!

Mrs. Wadman had told it, with all its circumstances, to Mrs. Bridget twenty-four hours before;
and was at that very moment sitting in council with her, touching some slight misgivings with
regard to the issue of the affairs, which the Devil, who never lies dead in a ditch, had put
into her head--before he would allow half time, to get quietly through her Te Deum.

I am terribly afraid, said widow Wadman, in case I should marry him, Bridget--that the poor
captain will not enjoy his health, with the monstrous wound upon his groin--

It may not, Madam, be so very large, replied Bridget, as you think--and I believe, besides,
added she--that 'tis dried up--

--I could like to know--merely for his sake, said Mrs. Wadman--

--We'll know and long and the broad of it, in ten days--answered Mrs. Bridget, for whilst the
captain is paying his addresses to you--I'm confident Mr. Trim will be for making love to me--and
I'll let him as much as he will--added Bridget--to get it all out of him--

The measures were taken at once--and my uncle Toby and the corporal went on with theirs.

Now, quoth the corporal, setting his left hand a-kimbo, and giving such a flourish with his
right, as just promised success--and no more--if your honour will give me leave to lay down
the plan of this attack--

--Thou wilt please me by it, Trim, said my uncle Toby, exceedingly--and as I foresee thou must
act in it as my aid de camp, here's a crown, corporal, to begin with, to steep thy commission.

Then, an' please your honour, said the corporal (making a bow first for his commission)--we
will begin with getting your honour's laced clothes out of the great campaign-trunk, to be
well air'd, and have the blue and gold taken up at the sleeves--and I'll put your white ramallie-wig
fresh into pipes--and send for a taylor, to have your honour's thin scarlet breeches turn'd--

--I had better take the red plush ones, quoth my uncle Toby--They will be too clumsy--said
the corporal.

Chapter 4.LIII.

--Thou wilt get a brush and a little chalk to my sword--'Twill be only in your honour's way,
replied Trim.

Chapter 4.LIV.

--But your honour's two razors shall be new set--and I will get my Montero cap furbish'd up,
and put on poor lieutenant Le Fever's regimental coat, which your honour gave me to wear for
his sake--and as soon as your honour is clean shaved--and has got your clean shirt on, with
your blue and gold, or your fine scarlet--sometimes one and sometimes t'other--and every thing
is ready for the attack--we'll march up boldly, as if 'twas to the face of a bastion; and whilst
your honour engages Mrs. Wadman in the parlour, to the right--I'll attack Mrs. Bridget in the
kitchen, to the left; and having seiz'd the pass, I'll answer for it, said the corporal, snapping
his fingers over his head--that the day is our own.

I wish I may but manage it right; said my uncle Toby--but I declare, corporal, I had rather
march up to the very edge of a trench--

--A woman is quite a different thing--said the corporal.

--I suppose so, quoth my uncle Toby.

Chapter 4.LV.

If any thing in this world, which my father said, could have provoked my uncle Toby, during
the time he was in love, it was the perverse use my father was always making of an expression
of Hilarion the hermit; who, in speaking of his abstinence, his watchings, flagellations, and
other instrumental parts of his religion--would say--tho' with more facetiousness than became
an hermit--'That they were the means he used, to make his ass (meaning his body) leave off
kicking.'

It pleased my father well; it was not only a laconick way of expressing--but of libelling,
at the same time, the desires and appetites of the lower part of us; so that for many years
of my father's life, 'twas his constant mode of expression--he never used the word passions
once--but ass always instead of them--So that he might be said truly, to have been upon the
bones, or the back of his own ass, or else of some other man's, during all that time.

I must here observe to you the difference betwixt My father's ass and my hobby-horse--in order
to keep characters as separate as may be, in our fancies as we go along.

For my hobby-horse, if you recollect a little, is no way a vicious beast; he has scarce one
hair or lineament of the ass about him--'Tis the sporting little filly-folly which carries
you out for the present hour--a maggot, a butterfly, a picture, a fiddlestick--an uncle Toby's
siege--or an any thing, which a man makes a shift to get a-stride on, to canter it away from
the cares and solicitudes of life--'Tis as useful a beast as is in the whole creation--nor
do I really see how the world could do without it--

--But for my father's ass--oh! mount him--mount him--mount him--(that's three times, is it
not?)--mount him not:--'tis a beast concupiscent--and foul befal the man, who does not hinder
him from kicking.

Chapter 4.LVI.

Well! dear brother Toby, said my father, upon his first seeing him after he fell in love--and
how goes it with your Asse?

Now my uncle Toby thinking more of the part where he had had the blister, than of Hilarion's
metaphor--and our preconceptions having (you know) as great a power over the sounds of words
as the shapes of things, he had imagined, that my father, who was not very ceremonious in his
choice of words, had enquired after the part by its proper name: so notwithstanding my mother,
doctor Slop, and Mr. Yorick, were sitting in the parlour, he thought it rather civil to conform
to the term my father had made use of than not. When a man is hemm'd in by two indecorums,
and must commit one of 'em--I always observe--let him chuse which he will, the world will blame
him--so I should not be astonished if it blames my uncle Toby.

My A..e, quoth my uncle Toby, is much better--brother Shandy--My father had formed great expectations
from his Asse in this onset; and would have brought him on again; but doctor Slop setting up
an intemperate laugh--and my mother crying out L... bless us!--it drove my father's Asse off
the field--and the laugh then becoming general--there was no bringing him back to the charge,
for some time--

And so the discourse went on without him.

Every body, said my mother, says you are in love, brother Toby,--and we hope it is true.

I am as much in love, sister, I believe, replied my uncle Toby, as any man usually is--Humph!
said my father--and when did you know it? quoth my mother--

--When the blister broke; replied my uncle Toby.

My uncle Toby's reply put my father into good temper--so he charg'd o' foot.

Chapter 4.LVII.

As the ancients agree, brother Toby, said my father, that there are two different and distinct
kinds of love, according to the different parts which are affected by it--the Brain or Liver--I
think when a man is in love, it behoves him a little to consider which of the two he is fallen
into.

What signifies it, brother Shandy, replied my uncle Toby, which of the two it is, provided
it will but make a man marry, and love his wife, and get a few children?

--A few children! cried my father, rising out of his chair, and looking full in my mother's
face, as he forced his way betwixt her's and doctor Slop's--a few children! cried my father,
repeating my uncle Toby's words as he walk'd to and fro--

--Not, my dear brother Toby, cried my father, recovering himself all at once, and coming close
up to the back of my uncle Toby's chair--not that I should be sorry hadst thou a score--on
the contrary, I should rejoice--and be as kind, Toby, to every one of them as a father--

My uncle Toby stole his hand unperceived behind his chair, to give my father's a squeeze--

--Nay, moreover, continued he, keeping hold of my uncle Toby's hand--so much dost thou possess,
my dear Toby, of the milk of human nature, and so little of its asperities--'tis piteous the
world is not peopled by creatures which resemble thee; and was I an Asiatic monarch, added
my father, heating himself with his new project--I would oblige thee, provided it would not
impair thy strength--or dry up thy radical moisture too fast--or weaken thy memory or fancy,
brother Toby, which these gymnics inordinately taken are apt to do--else, dear Toby, I would
procure thee the most beautiful woman in my empire, and I would oblige thee, nolens, volens,
to beget for me one subject every month--

As my father pronounced the last word of the sentence--my mother took a pinch of snuff.

Now I would not, quoth my uncle Toby, get a child, nolens, volens, that is, whether I would
or no, to please the greatest prince upon earth--

--And 'twould be cruel in me, brother Toby, to compel thee; said my father--but 'tis a case
put to shew thee, that it is not thy begetting a child--in case thou should'st be able--but
the system of Love and Marriage thou goest upon, which I would set thee right in--

There is at least, said Yorick, a great deal of reason and plain sense in captain Shandy's
opinion of love; and 'tis amongst the ill-spent hours of my life, which I have to answer for,
that I have read so many flourishing poets and rhetoricians in my time, from whom I never could
extract so much--I wish, Yorick, said my father, you had read Plato; for there you would have
learnt that there are two Loves--I know there were two Religions, replied Yorick, amongst the
ancients--one--for the vulgar, and another for the learned;--but I think One Love might have
served both of them very well--

I could not; replied my father--and for the same reasons: for of these Loves, according to
Ficinus's comment upon Velasius, the one is rational--

--the other is natural--the first ancient--without mother--where Venus had nothing to do: the
second, begotten of Jupiter and Dione--

--Pray, brother, quoth my uncle Toby, what has a man who believes in God to do with this? My
father could not stop to answer, for fear of breaking the thread of his discourse--

This latter, continued he, partakes wholly of the nature of Venus.

The first, which is the golden chain let down from heaven, excites to love heroic, which comprehends
in it, and excites to the desire of philosophy and truth--the second, excites to desire, simply--

--I think the procreation of children as beneficial to the world, said Yorick, as the finding
out the longitude--

--To be sure, said my mother, love keeps peace in the world--

--In the house--my dear, I own--

--It replenishes the earth; said my mother--

But it keeps heaven empty--my dear; replied my father.

--'Tis Virginity, cried Slop, triumphantly, which fills paradise.

Well push'd nun! quoth my father.

Chapter 4.LVIII.

My father had such a skirmishing, cutting kind of a slashing way with him in his disputations,
thrusting and ripping, and giving every one a stroke to remember him by in his turn--that if
there were twenty people in company--in less than half an hour he was sure to have every one
of 'em against him.

What did not a little contribute to leave him thus without an ally, was, that if there was
any one post more untenable than the rest, he would be sure to throw himself into it; and to
do him justice, when he was once there, he would defend it so gallantly, that 'twould have
been a concern, either to a brave man or a good-natured one, to have seen him driven out.

Yorick, for this reason, though he would often attack him--yet could never bear to do it with
all his force.

Doctor Slop's Virginity, in the close of the last chapter, had got him for once on the right
side of the rampart; and he was beginning to blow up all the convents in Christendom about
Slop's ears, when corporal Trim came into the parlour to inform my uncle Toby, that his thin
scarlet breeches, in which the attack was to be made upon Mrs. Wadman, would not do; for that
the taylor, in ripping them up, in order to turn them, had found they had been turn'd before--Then
turn them again, brother, said my father, rapidly, for there will be many a turning of 'em
yet before all's done in the affair--They are as rotten as dirt, said the corporal--Then by
all means, said my father, bespeak a new pair, brother--for though I know, continued my father,
turning himself to the company, that widow Wadman has been deeply in love with my brother Toby
for many years, and has used every art and circumvention of woman to outwit him into the same
passion, yet now that she has caught him--her fever will be pass'd its height--

--She has gained her point.

In this case, continued my father, which Plato, I am persuaded, never thought of--Love, you
see, is not so much a Sentiment as a Situation, into which a man enters, as my brother Toby
would do, into a corps--no matter whether he loves the service or no--being once in it--he
acts as if he did; and takes every step to shew himself a man of prowesse.

The hypothesis, like the rest of my father's, was plausible enough, and my uncle Toby had but
a single word to object to it--in which Trim stood ready to second him--but my father had not
drawn his conclusion--

For this reason, continued my father (stating the case over again)--notwithstanding all the
world knows, that Mrs. Wadman affects my brother Toby--and my brother Toby contrariwise affects
Mrs. Wadman, and no obstacle in nature to forbid the music striking up this very night, yet
will I answer for it, that this self-same tune will not be play'd this twelvemonth.

We have taken our measures badly, quoth my uncle Toby, looking up interrogatively in Trim's face.

I would lay my Montero-cap, said Trim--Now Trim's Montero-cap, as I once told you, was his
constant wager; and having furbish'd it up that very night, in order to go upon the attack--it
made the odds look more considerable--I would lay, an' please your honour, my Montero-cap to
a shilling--was it proper, continued Trim (making a bow), to offer a wager before your honours--

--There is nothing improper in it, said my father--'tis a mode of expression; for in saying
thou would'st lay thy Montero-cap to a shilling--all thou meanest is this--that thou believest--

--Now, What do'st thou believe?

That widow Wadman, an' please your worship, cannot hold it out ten days--

And whence, cried Slop, jeeringly, hast thou all this knowledge of woman, friend?

By falling in love with a popish clergy-woman; said Trim.

'Twas a Beguine, said my uncle Toby.

Doctor Slop was too much in wrath to listen to the distinction; and my father taking that very
crisis to fall in helter-skelter upon the whole order of Nuns and Beguines, a set of silly,
fusty, baggages--Slop could not stand it--and my uncle Toby having some measures to take about
his breeches--and Yorick about his fourth general division--in order for their several attacks
next day--the company broke up: and my father being left alone, and having half an hour upon
his hands betwixt that and bed-time; he called for pen, ink, and paper, and wrote my uncle
Toby the following letter of instructions:

My dear brother Toby,

What I am going to say to thee is upon the nature of women, and of love-making to them; and
perhaps it is as well for thee--tho' not so well for me--that thou hast occasion for a letter
of instructions upon that head, and that I am able to write it to thee.

Had it been the good pleasure of him who disposes of our lots--and thou no sufferer by the
knowledge, I had been well content that thou should'st have dipp'd the pen this moment into
the ink, instead of myself; but that not being the case--Mrs. Shandy being now close beside
me, preparing for bed--I have thrown together without order, and just as they have come into
my mind, such hints and documents as I deem may be of use to thee; intending, in this, to give
thee a token of my love; not doubting, my dear Toby, of the manner in which it will be accepted.

In the first place, with regard to all which concerns religion in the affair--though I perceive
from a glow in my cheek, that I blush as I begin to speak to thee upon the subject, as well
knowing, notwithstanding thy unaffected secrecy, how few of its offices thou neglectest--yet
I would remind thee of one (during the continuance of thy courtship) in a particular manner,
which I would not have omitted; and that is, never to go forth upon the enterprize, whether
it be in the morning or the afternoon, without first recommending thyself to the protection
of Almighty God, that he may defend thee from the evil one.

Shave the whole top of thy crown clean once at least every four or five days, but oftner if
convenient; lest in taking off thy wig before her, thro' absence of mind, she should be able
to discover how much has been cut away by Time--how much by Trim.

--'Twere better to keep ideas of baldness out of her fancy.

Always carry it in thy mind, and act upon it as a sure maxim, Toby--

'That women are timid:' And 'tis well they are--else there would be no dealing with them.

Let not thy breeches be too tight, or hang too loose about thy thighs, like the trunk-hose
of our ancestors.

--A just medium prevents all conclusions.

Whatever thou hast to say, be it more or less, forget not to utter it in a low soft tone of
voice. Silence, and whatever approaches it, weaves dreams of midnight secrecy into the brain:
For this cause, if thou canst help it, never throw down the tongs and poker.

Avoid all kinds of pleasantry and facetiousness in thy discourse with her, and do whatever
lies in thy power at the same time, to keep her from all books and writings which tend thereto:
there are some devotional tracts, which if thou canst entice her to read over--it will be well:
but suffer her not to look into Rabelais, or Scarron, or Don Quixote--

--They are all books which excite laughter; and thou knowest, dear Toby, that there is no passion
so serious as lust.

Stick a pin in the bosom of thy shirt, before thou enterest her parlour.

And if thou art permitted to sit upon the same sopha with her, and she gives thee occasion
to lay thy hand upon hers--beware of taking it--thou canst not lay thy hand on hers, but she
will feel the temper of thine. Leave that and as many other things as thou canst, quite undetermined;
by so doing, thou wilt have her curiosity on thy side; and if she is not conquered by that,
and thy Asse continues still kicking, which there is great reason to suppose--Thou must begin,
with first losing a few ounces of blood below the ears, according to the practice of the ancient
Scythians, who cured the most intemperate fits of the appetite by that means.

Avicenna, after this, is for having the part anointed with the syrup of hellebore, using proper
evacuations and purges--and I believe rightly. But thou must eat little or no goat's flesh,
nor red deer--nor even foal's flesh by any means; and carefully abstain--that is, as much as
thou canst, from peacocks, cranes, coots, didappers, and water-hens--

As for thy drink--I need not tell thee, it must be the infusion of Vervain and the herb Hanea,
of which Aelian relates such effects--but if thy stomach palls with it--discontinue it from
time to time, taking cucumbers, melons, purslane, water-lillies, woodbine, and lettice, in
the stead of them.

There is nothing further for thee, which occurs to me at present--

--Unless the breaking out of a fresh war--So wishing every thing, dear Toby, for best,

I rest thy affectionate brother,

Walter Shandy.

Chapter 4.LIX.

Whilst my father was writing his letter of instructions, my uncle Toby and the corporal were
busy in preparing every thing for the attack. As the turning of the thin scarlet breeches was
laid aside (at least for the present), there was nothing which should put it off beyond the
next morning; so accordingly it was resolv'd upon, for eleven o'clock.

Come, my dear, said my father to my mother--'twill be but like a brother and sister, if you
and I take a walk down to my brother Toby's--to countenance him in this attack of his.

My uncle Toby and the corporal had been accoutred both some time, when my father and mother
enter'd, and the clock striking eleven, were that moment in motion to sally forth--but the
account of this is worth more than to be wove into the fag end of the eighth (Alluding to the
first edition.) volume of such a work as this.--My father had no time but to put the letter
of instructions into my uncle Toby's coat-pocket--and join with my mother in wishing his attack
prosperous.

I could like, said my mother, to look through the key-hole out of curiosity--Call it by its
right name, my dear, quoth my father--

And look through the key-hole as long as you will.

Chapter 4.LX.

I call all the powers of time and chance, which severally check us in our careers in this world,
to bear me witness, that I could never yet get fairly to my uncle Toby's amours, till this
very moment, that my mother's curiosity, as she stated the affair,--or a different impulse
in her, as my father would have it--wished her to take a peep at them through the key-hole.

'Call it, my dear, by its right name, quoth my father, and look through the key-hole as long
as you will.'

Nothing but the fermentation of that little subacid humour, which I have often spoken of, in
my father's habit, could have vented such an insinuation--he was however frank and generous
in his nature, and at all times open to conviction; so that he had scarce got to the last word
of this ungracious retort, when his conscience smote him.

My mother was then conjugally swinging with her left arm twisted under his right, in such wise,
that the inside of her hand rested upon the back of his--she raised her fingers, and let them
fall--it could scarce be call'd a tap; or if it was a tap--'twould have puzzled a casuist to
say, whether 'twas a tap of remonstrance, or a tap of confession: my father, who was all sensibilities
from head to foot, class'd it right--Conscience redoubled her blow--he turn'd his face suddenly
the other way, and my mother supposing his body was about to turn with it in order to move
homewards, by a cross movement of her right leg, keeping her left as its centre, brought herself
so far in front, that as he turned his head, he met her eye--Confusion again! he saw a thousand
reasons to wipe out the reproach, and as many to reproach himself--a thin, blue, chill, pellucid
chrystal with all its humours so at rest, the least mote or speck of desire might have been
seen, at the bottom of it, had it existed--it did not--and how I happen to be so lewd myself,
particularly a little before the vernal and autumnal equinoxes--Heaven above knows--My mother--madam--was
so at no time, either by nature, by institution, or example.

A temperate current of blood ran orderly through her veins in all months of the year, and in
all critical moments both of the day and night alike; nor did she superinduce the least heat
into her humours from the manual effervescencies of devotional tracts, which having little
or no meaning in them, nature is oft-times obliged to find one--And as for my father's example!
'twas so far from being either aiding or abetting thereunto, that 'twas the whole business
of his life, to keep all fancies of that kind out of her head--Nature had done her part, to
have spared him this trouble; and what was not a little inconsistent, my father knew it--And
here am I sitting, this 12th day of August 1766, in a purple jerkin and yellow pair of slippers,
without either wig or cap on, a most tragicomical completion of his prediction, 'That I should
neither think, nor act like any other man's child, upon that very account.'

The mistake in my father, was in attacking my mother's motive, instead of the act itself; for
certainly key-holes were made for other purposes; and considering the act, as an act which
interfered with a true proposition, and denied a key-hole to be what it was--it became a violation
of nature; and was so far, you see, criminal.

It is for this reason, an' please your Reverences, That key-holes are the occasions of more
sin and wickedness, than all other holes in this world put together.

--which leads me to my uncle Toby's amours.

Chapter 4.LXI.

Though the corporal had been as good as his word in putting my uncle Toby's great ramallie-wig
into pipes, yet the time was too short to produce any great effects from it: it had lain many
years squeezed up in the corner of his old campaign trunk; and as bad forms are not so easy
to be got the better of, and the use of candle-ends not so well understood, it was not so pliable
a business as one would have wished. The corporal with cheary eye and both arms extended, had
fallen back perpendicular from it a score times, to inspire it, if possible, with a better
air--had Spleen given a look at it, 'twould have cost her ladyship a smile--it curl'd every
where but where the corporal would have it; and where a buckle or two, in his opinion, would
have done it honour, he could as soon have raised the dead.

Such it was--or rather such would it have seem'd upon any other brow; but the sweet look of
goodness which sat upon my uncle Toby's, assimilated every thing around it so sovereignly to
itself, and Nature had moreover wrote Gentleman with so fair a hand in every line of his countenance,
that even his tarnish'd gold-laced hat and huge cockade of flimsy taffeta became him; and though
not worth a button in themselves, yet the moment my uncle Toby put them on, they became serious
objects, and altogether seem'd to have been picked up by the hand of Science to set him off
to advantage.

Nothing in this world could have co-operated more powerfully towards this, than my uncle Toby's
blue and gold--had not Quantity in some measure been necessary to Grace: in a period of fifteen
or sixteen years since they had been made, by a total inactivity in my uncle Toby's life, for
he seldom went further than the bowling-green--his blue and gold had become so miserably too
straight for him, that it was with the utmost difficulty the corporal was able to get him into
them; the taking them up at the sleeves, was of no advantage.--They were laced however down
the back, and at the seams of the sides, &c. in the mode of King William's reign; and to shorten
all description, they shone so bright against the sun that morning, and had so metallick and
doughty an air with them, that had my uncle Toby thought of attacking in armour, nothing could
have so well imposed upon his imagination.

As for the thin scarlet breeches, they had been unripp'd by the taylor between the legs, and
left at sixes and sevens--

--Yes, Madam,--but let us govern our fancies. It is enough they were held impracticable the
night before, and as there was no alternative in my uncle Toby's wardrobe, he sallied forth
in the red plush.

The corporal had array'd himself in poor Le Fever's regimental coat; and with his hair tuck'd
up under his Montero-cap, which he had furbish'd up for the occasion, march'd three paces distant
from his master: a whiff of military pride had puff'd out his shirt at the wrist; and upon
that in a black leather thong clipp'd into a tassel beyond the knot, hung the corporal's stick--my
uncle Toby carried his cane like a pike.

--It looks well at least; quoth my father to himself.

Chapter 4.LXII.

My uncle Toby turn'd his head more than once behind him, to see how he was supported by the
corporal; and the corporal as oft as he did it, gave a slight flourish with his stick--but
not vapouringly; and with the sweetest accent of most respectful encouragement, bid his honour
'never fear.'

Now my uncle Toby did fear; and grievously too; he knew not (as my father had reproach'd him)
so much as the right end of a Woman from the wrong, and therefore was never altogether at his
ease near any one of them--unless in sorrow or distress; then infinite was his pity; nor would
the most courteous knight of romance have gone further, at least upon one leg, to have wiped
away a tear from a woman's eye; and yet excepting once that he was beguiled into it by Mrs.
Wadman, he had never looked stedfastly into one; and would often tell my father in the simplicity
of his heart, that it was almost (if not about) as bad as taking bawdy.--

--And suppose it is? my father would say.

Chapter 4.LXIII.

She cannot, quoth my uncle Toby, halting, when they had march'd up to within twenty paces of
Mrs. Wadman's door--she cannot, corporal, take it amiss.--

--She will take it, an' please your honour, said the corporal, just as the Jew's widow at Lisbon
took it of my brother Tom.--

--And how was that? quoth my uncle Toby, facing quite about to the corporal.

Your honour, replied the corporal, knows of Tom's misfortunes; but this affair has nothing
to do with them any further than this, That if Tom had not married the widow--or had it pleased
God after their marriage, that they had but put pork into their sausages, the honest soul had
never been taken out of his warm bed, and dragg'd to the inquisition--'Tis a cursed place--added
the corporal, shaking his head,--when once a poor creature is in, he is in, an' please your
honour, for ever.

'Tis very true; said my uncle Toby, looking gravely at Mrs. Wadman's house, as he spoke.

Nothing, continued the corporal, can be so sad as confinement for life--or so sweet, an' please
your honour, as liberty.

Nothing, Trim--said my uncle Toby, musing--

Whilst a man is free,--cried the corporal, giving a flourish with his stick thus--

(squiggly line diagonally across the page)

A thousand of my father's most subtle syllogisms could not have said more for celibacy.

My uncle Toby look'd earnestly towards his cottage and his bowling-green.

The corporal had unwarily conjured up the Spirit of calculation with his wand; and he had nothing
to do, but to conjure him down again with his story, and in this form of Exorcism, most un-ecclesiastically
did the corporal do it.

Chapter 4.LXIV.

As Tom's place, an' please your honour, was easy--and the weather warm--it put him upon thinking
seriously of settling himself in the world; and as it fell out about that time, that a Jew
who kept a sausage shop in the same street, had the ill luck to die of a strangury, and leave
his widow in possession of a rousing trade--Tom thought (as every body in Lisbon was doing
the best he could devise for himself) there could be no harm in offering her his service to
carry it on: so without any introduction to the widow, except that of buying a pound of sausages
at her shop--Tom set out--counting the matter thus within himself, as he walk'd along; that
let the worst come of it that could, he should at least get a pound of sausages for their worth--but,
if things went well, he should be set up; inasmuch as he should get not only a pound of sausages--but
a wife and--a sausage shop, an' please your honour, into the bargain.

Every servant in the family, from high to low, wish'd Tom success; and I can fancy, an' please
your honour, I see him this moment with his white dimity waist-coat and breeches, and hat a
little o' one side, passing jollily along the street, swinging his stick, with a smile and
a chearful word for every body he met:--But alas! Tom! thou smilest no more, cried the corporal,
looking on one side of him upon the ground, as if he apostrophised him in his dungeon.

Poor fellow! said my uncle Toby, feelingly.

He was an honest, light-hearted lad, an' please your honour, as ever blood warm'd--

--Then he resembled thee, Trim, said my uncle Toby, rapidly.

The corporal blush'd down to his fingers ends--a tear of sentimental bashfulness--another of
gratitude to my uncle Toby--and a tear of sorrow for his brother's misfortunes, started into
his eye, and ran sweetly down his cheek together; my uncle Toby's kindled as one lamp does
at another; and taking hold of the breast of Trim's coat (which had been that of Le Fever's)
as if to ease his lame leg, but in reality to gratify a finer feeling--he stood silent for
a minute and a half; at the end of which he took his hand away, and the corporal making a bow,
went on with his story of his brother and the Jew's widow.

Chapter 4.LXV.

When Tom, an' please your honour, got to the shop, there was nobody in it, but a poor negro
girl, with a bunch of white feathers slightly tied to the end of a long cane, flapping away
flies--not killing them.--'Tis a pretty picture! said my uncle Toby--she had suffered persecution,
Trim, and had learnt mercy--

--She was good, an' please your honour, from nature, as well as from hardships; and there are
circumstances in the story of that poor friendless slut, that would melt a heart of stone,
said Trim; and some dismal winter's evening, when your honour is in the humour, they shall
be told you with the rest of Tom's story, for it makes a part of it--

Then do not forget, Trim, said my uncle Toby.

A negro has a soul? an' please your honour, said the corporal (doubtingly).

I am not much versed, corporal, quoth my uncle Toby, in things of that kind; but I suppose,
God would not leave him without one, any more than thee or me--

--It would be putting one sadly over the head of another, quoth the corporal.

It would so; said my uncle Toby. Why then, an' please your honour, is a black wench to be used
worse than a white one?

I can give no reason, said my uncle Toby--

--Only, cried the corporal, shaking his head, because she has no one to stand up for her--

--'Tis that very thing, Trim, quoth my uncle Toby,--which recommends her to protection--and
her brethren with her; 'tis the fortune of war which has put the whip into our hands now--where
it may be hereafter, heaven knows!--but be it where it will, the brave, Trim! will not use
it unkindly.

--God forbid, said the corporal.

Amen, responded my uncle Toby, laying his hand upon his heart.

The corporal returned to his story, and went on--but with an embarrassment in doing it, which
here and there a reader in this world will not be able to comprehend; for by the many sudden
transitions all along, from one kind and cordial passion to another, in getting thus far on
his way, he had lost the sportable key of his voice, which gave sense and spirit to his tale:
he attempted twice to resume it, but could not please himself; so giving a stout hem! to rally
back the retreating spirits, and aiding nature at the same time with his left arm a kimbo on
one side, and with his right a little extended, supporting her on the other--the corporal got
as near the note as he could; and in that attitude, continued his story.

Chapter 4.LXVI.

As Tom, an' please your honour, had no business at that time with the Moorish girl, he passed
on into the room beyond, to talk to the Jew's widow about love--and this pound of sausages;
and being, as I have told your honour, an open cheary-hearted lad, with his character wrote
in his looks and carriage, he took a chair, and without much apology, but with great civility
at the same time, placed it close to her at the table, and sat down.

There is nothing so awkward, as courting a woman, an' please your honour, whilst she is making
sausages--So Tom began a discourse upon them; first, gravely,--'as how they were made--with
what meats, herbs, and spices.'--Then a little gayly,--as, 'With what skins--and if they never
burst--Whether the largest were not the best?'--and so on--taking care only as he went along,
to season what he had to say upon sausages, rather under than over;--that he might have room
to act in--

It was owing to the neglect of that very precaution, said my uncle Toby, laying his hand upon
Trim's shoulder, that Count De la Motte lost the battle of Wynendale: he pressed too speedily
into the wood; which if he had not done, Lisle had not fallen into our hands, nor Ghent and
Bruges, which both followed her example; it was so late in the year, continued my uncle Toby,
and so terrible a season came on, that if things had not fallen out as they did, our troops
must have perish'd in the open field.--

--Why, therefore, may not battles, an' please your honour, as well as marriages, be made in
heaven?--my uncle Toby mused--

Religion inclined him to say one thing, and his high idea of military skill tempted him to
say another; so not being able to frame a reply exactly to his mind--my uncle Toby said nothing
at all; and the corporal finished his story.

As Tom perceived, an' please your honour, that he gained ground, and that all he had said upon
the subject of sausages was kindly taken, he went on to help her a little in making them.--First,
by taking hold of the ring of the sausage whilst she stroked the forced meat down with her
hand--then by cutting the strings into proper lengths, and holding them in his hand, whilst
she took them out one by one--then, by putting them across her mouth, that she might take them
out as she wanted them--and so on from little to more, till at last he adventured to tie the
sausage himself, whilst she held the snout.--

--Now a widow, an' please your honour, always chuses a second husband as unlike the first as
she can: so the affair was more than half settled in her mind before Tom mentioned it.

She made a feint however of defending herself, by snatching up a sausage:--Tom instantly laid
hold of another--

But seeing Tom's had more gristle in it--

She signed the capitulation--and Tom sealed it; and there was an end of the matter.

Chapter 4.LXVII.

All womankind, continued Trim, (commenting upon his story) from the highest to the lowest,
an' please your honour, love jokes; the difficulty is to know how they chuse to have them cut;
and there is no knowing that, but by trying, as we do with our artillery in the field, by raising
or letting down their breeches, till we hit the mark.--

--I like the comparison, said my uncle Toby, better than the thing itself--

--Because your honour, quoth the corporal, loves glory, more than pleasure.

I hope, Trim, answered my uncle Toby, I love mankind more than either; and as the knowledge
of arms tends so apparently to the good and quiet of the world--and particularly that branch
of it which we have practised together in our bowling-green, has no object but to shorten the
strides of Ambition, and intrench the lives and fortunes of the few, from the plunderings of
the many--whenever that drum beats in our ears, I trust, corporal, we shall neither of us want
so much humanity and fellow-feeling, as to face about and march.

In pronouncing this, my uncle Toby faced about, and march'd firmly as at the head of his company--and
the faithful corporal, shouldering his stick, and striking his hand upon his coat-skirt as
he took his first step--march'd close behind him down the avenue.

--Now what can their two noddles be about? cried my father to my mother--by all that's strange,
they are besieging Mrs. Wadman in form, and are marching round her house to mark out the lines
of circumvallation.

I dare say, quoth my mother--But stop, dear Sir--for what my mother dared to say upon the occasion--and
what my father did say upon it--with her replies and his rejoinders, shall be read, perused,
paraphrased, commented, and descanted upon--or to say it all in a word, shall be thumb'd over
by Posterity in a chapter apart--I say, by Posterity--and care not, if I repeat the word again--for
what has this book done more than the Legation of Moses, or the Tale of a Tub, that it may
not swim down the gutter of Time along with them?

I will not argue the matter: Time wastes too fast: every letter I trace tells me with what
rapidity Life follows my pen: the days and hours of it, more precious, my dear Jenny! than
the rubies about thy neck, are flying over our heads like light clouds of a windy day, never
to return more--every thing presses on--whilst thou art twisting that lock,--see! it grows
grey; and every time I kiss thy hand to bid adieu, and every absence which follows it, are
preludes to that eternal separation which we are shortly to make.--

--Heaven have mercy upon us both!

Chapter 4.LXVIII.

Now, for what the world thinks of that ejaculation--I would not give a groat.

Chapter 4.LXIX.

My mother had gone with her left arm twisted in my father's right, till they had got to the
fatal angle of the old garden wall, where Doctor Slop was overthrown by Obadiah on the coach-horse:
as this was directly opposite to the front of Mrs. Wadman's house, when my father came to it,
he gave a look across; and seeing my uncle Toby and the corporal within ten paces of the door,
he turn'd about--'Let us just stop a moment, quoth my father, and see with what ceremonies
my brother Toby and his man Trim make their first entry--it will not detain us, added my father,
a single minute:'

--No matter, if it be ten minutes, quoth my mother.

--It will not detain us half one; said my father.

The corporal was just then setting in with the story of his brother Tom and the Jew's widow:
the story went on--and on--it had episodes in it--it came back, and went on--and on again;
there was no end of it--the reader found it very long--

--G.. help my father! he pish'd fifty times at every new attitude, and gave the corporal's
stick, with all its flourishings and danglings, to as many devils as chose to accept of them.

When issues of events like these my father is waiting for, are hanging in the scales of fate,
the mind has the advantage of changing the principle of expectation three times, without which
it would not have power to see it out.

Curiosity governs the first moment; and the second moment is all oeconomy to justify the expence
of the first--and for the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth moments, and so on to the day of
judgment--'tis a point of Honour.

I need not be told, that the ethic writers have assigned this all to Patience; but that Virtue,
methinks, has extent of dominion sufficient of her own, and enough to do in it, without invading
the few dismantled castles which Honour has left him upon the earth.

My father stood it out as well as he could with these three auxiliaries to the end of Trim's
story; and from thence to the end of my uncle Toby's panegyrick upon arms, in the chapter following
it; when seeing, that instead of marching up to Mrs. Wadman's door, they both faced about and
march'd down the avenue diametrically opposite to his expectation--he broke out at once with
that little subacid soreness of humour, which, in certain situations, distinguished his character
from that of all other men.

Chapter 4.LXX.

--'Now what can their two noddles be about?' cried my father...&c....

I dare say, said my mother, they are making fortifications--

--Not on Mrs. Wadman's premises! cried my father, stepping back--

I suppose not: quoth my mother.

I wish, said my father, raising his voice, the whole science of fortification at the devil,
with all its trumpery of saps, mines, blinds, gabions, fausse-brays and cuvetts--

--They are foolish things--said my mother.

Now she had a way, which, by the bye, I would this moment give away my purple jerkin, and my
yellow slippers into the bargain, if some of your reverences would imitate--and that was, never
to refuse her assent and consent to any proposition my father laid before her, merely because
she did not understand it, or had no ideas of the principal word or term of art, upon which
the tenet or proposition rolled. She contented herself with doing all that her godfathers and
godmothers promised for her--but no more; and so would go on using a hard word twenty years
together--and replying to it too, if it was a verb, in all its moods and tenses, without giving
herself any trouble to enquire about it.

This was an eternal source of misery to my father, and broke the neck, at the first setting
out, of more good dialogues between them, than could have done the most petulant contradiction--the
few which survived were the better for the cuvetts--

--'They are foolish things;' said my mother.

--Particularly the cuvetts; replied my father.

'Tis enough--he tasted the sweet of triumph--and went on.

--Not that they are, properly speaking, Mrs. Wadman's premises, said my father, partly correcting
himself--because she is but tenant for life--

--That makes a great difference--said my mother--

--In a fool's head, replied my father--

Unless she should happen to have a child--said my mother--

--But she must persuade my brother Toby first to get her one--

To be sure, Mr. Shandy, quoth my mother.

--Though if it comes to persuasion--said my father--Lord have mercy upon them.

Amen: said my mother, piano.

Amen: cried my father, fortissime.

Amen: said my mother again--but with such a sighing cadence of personal pity at the end of
it, as discomfited every fibre about my father--he instantly took out his almanack; but before
he could untie it, Yorick's congregation coming out of church, became a full answer to one
half of his business with it--and my mother telling him it was a sacrament day--left him as
little in doubt, as to the other part--He put his almanack into his pocket.

The first Lord of the Treasury thinking of ways and means, could not have returned home with
a more embarrassed look.

Chapter 4.LXXI.

Upon looking back from the end of the last chapter, and surveying the texture of what has been
wrote, it is necessary, that upon this page and the three following, a good quantity of heterogeneous
matter be inserted to keep up that just balance betwixt wisdom and folly, without which a book
would not hold together a single year: nor is it a poor creeping digression (which but for
the name of, a man might continue as well going on in the king's highway) which will do the
business--no; if it is to be a digression, it must be a good frisky one, and upon a frisky
subject too, where neither the horse or his rider are to be caught, but by rebound.

The only difficulty, is raising powers suitable to the nature of the service: Fancy is capricious--Wit
must not be searched for--and Pleasantry (good-natured slut as she is) will not come in at
a call, was an empire to be laid at her feet.

--The best way for a man, is to say his prayers--

Only if it puts him in mind of his infirmities and defects as well ghostly as bodily--for that
purpose, he will find himself rather worse after he has said them than before--for other purposes,
better.

For my own part, there is not a way either moral or mechanical under heaven that I could think
of, which I have not taken with myself in this case: sometimes by addressing myself directly
to the soul herself, and arguing the point over and over again with her upon the extent of
her own faculties--

--I never could make them an inch the wider--

Then by changing my system, and trying what could be made of it upon the body, by temperance,
soberness, and chastity: These are good, quoth I, in themselves--they are good, absolutely;--they
are good, relatively;--they are good for health--they are good for happiness in this world--they
are good for happiness in the next--

In short, they were good for every thing but the thing wanted; and there they were good for
nothing, but to leave the soul just as heaven made it: as for the theological virtues of faith
and hope, they give it courage; but then that snivelling virtue of Meekness (as my father would
always call it) takes it quite away again, so you are exactly where you started.

Now in all common and ordinary cases, there is nothing which I have found to answer so well
as this--

--Certainly, if there is any dependence upon Logic, and that I am not blinded by self-love,
there must be something of true genius about me, merely upon this symptom of it, that I do
not know what envy is: for never do I hit upon any invention or device which tendeth to the
furtherance of good writing, but I instantly make it public; willing that all mankind should
write as well as myself.

--Which they certainly will, when they think as little.

Chapter 4.LXXII.

Now in ordinary cases, that is, when I am only stupid, and the thoughts rise heavily and pass
gummous through my pen--

Or that I am got, I know not how, into a cold unmetaphorical vein of infamous writing, and
cannot take a plumb-lift out of it for my soul; so must be obliged to go on writing like a
Dutch commentator to the end of the chapter, unless something be done--

--I never stand conferring with pen and ink one moment; for if a pinch of snuff, or a stride
or two across the room will not do the business for me--I take a razor at once; and having
tried the edge of it upon the palm of my hand, without further ceremony, except that of first
lathering my beard, I shave it off; taking care only if I do leave a hair, that it be not a
grey one: this done, I change my shirt--put on a better coat--send for my last wig--put my
topaz ring upon my finger; and in a word, dress myself from one end to the other of me, after
my best fashion.

Now the devil in hell must be in it, if this does not do: for consider, Sir, as every man chuses
to be present at the shaving of his own beard (though there is no rule without an exception),
and unavoidably sits over-against himself the whole time it is doing, in case he has a hand
in it--the Situation, like all others, has notions of her own to put into the brain.--

--I maintain it, the conceits of a rough-bearded man, are seven years more terse and juvenile
for one single operation; and if they did not run a risk of being quite shaved away, might
be carried up by continual shavings, to the highest pitch of sublimity--How Homer could write
with so long a beard, I don't know--and as it makes against my hypothesis, I as little care--But
let us return to the Toilet.

Ludovicus Sorbonensis makes this entirely an affair of the body (Greek) as he calls it--but
he is deceived: the soul and body are joint-sharers in every thing they get: A man cannot dress,
but his ideas get cloth'd at the same time; and if he dresses like a gentleman, every one of
them stands presented to his imagination, genteelized along with him--so that he has nothing
to do, but take his pen, and write like himself.

For this cause, when your honours and reverences would know whether I writ clean and fit to
be read, you will be able to judge full as well by looking into my Laundress's bill, as my
book: there is one single month in which I can make it appear, that I dirtied one and thirty
shirts with clean writing; and after all, was more abus'd, cursed, criticis'd, and confounded,
and had more mystic heads shaken at me, for what I had wrote in that one month, than in all
the other months of that year put together.

--But their honours and reverences had not seen my bills.

Chapter 4.LXXIII.

As I never had any intention of beginning the Digression, I am making all this preparation
for, till I come to the 74th chapter--I have this chapter to put to whatever use I think proper--I
have twenty this moment ready for it--I could write my chapter of Button-holes in it--

Or my chapter of Pishes, which should follow them--

Or my chapter of Knots, in case their reverences have done with them--they might lead me into
mischief: the safest way is to follow the track of the learned, and raise objections against
what I have been writing, tho' I declare before-hand, I know no more than my heels how to answer
them.

And first, it may be said, there is a pelting kind of thersitical satire, as black as the very
ink 'tis wrote with--(and by the bye, whoever says so, is indebted to the muster-master general
of the Grecian army, for suffering the name of so ugly and foul-mouth'd a man as Thersites
to continue upon his roll--for it has furnish'd him with an epithet)--in these productions
he will urge, all the personal washings and scrubbings upon earth do a sinking genius no sort
of good--but just the contrary, inasmuch as the dirtier the fellow is, the better generally
he succeeds in it.

To this, I have no other answer--at least ready--but that the Archbishop of Benevento wrote
his nasty Romance of the Galatea, as all the world knows, in a purple coat, waistcoat, and
purple pair of breeches; and that the penance set him of writing a commentary upon the book
of the Revelations, as severe as it was look'd upon by one part of the world, was far from
being deem'd so, by the other, upon the single account of that Investment.

Another objection, to all this remedy, is its want of universality; forasmuch as the shaving
part of it, upon which so much stress is laid, by an unalterable law of nature excludes one
half of the species entirely from its use: all I can say is, that female writers, whether of
England, or of France, must e'en go without it--

As for the Spanish ladies--I am in no sort of distress--

Chapter 4.LXXIV.

The seventy-fourth chapter is come at last; and brings nothing with it but a sad signature
of 'How our pleasures slip from under us in this world!'

For in talking of my digression--I declare before heaven I have made it! What a strange creature
is mortal man! said she.

'Tis very true, said I--but 'twere better to get all these things out of our heads, and return
to my uncle Toby.

Chapter 4.LXXV.

When my uncle Toby and the corporal had marched down to the bottom of the avenue, they recollected
their business lay the other way; so they faced about and marched up straight to Mrs. Wadman's
door.

I warrant your honour; said the corporal, touching his Montero-cap with his hand, as he passed
him in order to give a knock at the door--My uncle Toby, contrary to his invariable way of
treating his faithful servant, said nothing good or bad: the truth was, he had not altogether
marshal'd his ideas; he wish'd for another conference, and as the corporal was mounting up
the three steps before the door--he hem'd twice--a portion of my uncle Toby's most modest spirits
fled, at each expulsion, towards the corporal; he stood with the rapper of the door suspended
for a full minute in his hand, he scarce knew why. Bridget stood perdue within, with her finger
and her thumb upon the latch, benumb'd with expectation; and Mrs. Wadman, with an eye ready
to be deflowered again, sat breathless behind the window-curtain of her bed-chamber, watching
their approach.

Trim! said my uncle Toby--but as he articulated the word, the minute expired, and Trim let
fall the rapper.

My uncle Toby perceiving that all hopes of a conference were knock'd on the head by it--whistled
Lillabullero.

Chapter 4.LXXVI.

As Mrs. Bridget's finger and thumb were upon the latch, the corporal did not knock as often
as perchance your honour's taylor--I might have taken my example something nearer home; for
I owe mine, some five and twenty pounds at least, and wonder at the man's patience--

--But this is nothing at all to the world: only 'tis a cursed thing to be in debt; and there
seems to be a fatality in the exchequers of some poor princes, particularly those of our house,
which no Economy can bind down in irons: for my own part, I'm persuaded there is not any one
prince, prelate, pope, or potentate, great or small upon earth, more desirous in his heart
of keeping straight with the world than I am--or who takes more likely means for it. I never
give above half a guinea--or walk with boots--or cheapen tooth-picks--or lay out a shilling
upon a band-box the year round; and for the six months I'm in the country, I'm upon so small
a scale, that with all the good temper in the world, I outdo Rousseau, a bar length--for I
keep neither man or boy, or horse, or cow, or dog, or cat, or any thing that can eat or drink,
except a thin poor piece of a Vestal (to keep my fire in), and who has generally as bad an
appetite as myself--but if you think this makes a philosopher of me--I would not, my good people!
give a rush for your judgments.

True philosophy--but there is no treating the subject whilst my uncle is whistling Lillabullero.

--Let us go into the house.

Chapter 4.LXXVII.

(blank page)

Chapter 4.LXXVIII.

(blank page)

Chapter 4.LXXIX.

--(two blank paragraphs)--

--You shall see the very place, Madam; said my uncle Toby.

Mrs. Wadman blush'd--look'd towards the door--turn'd pale--blush'd slightly again--recover'd
her natural colour--blush'd worse than ever; which, for the sake of the unlearned reader, I
translate thus--

'L..d! I cannot look at it--

'What would the world say if I look'd at it?

'I should drop down, if I look'd at it--

'I wish I could look at it--

'There can be no sin in looking at it.

--'I will look at it.'

Whilst all this was running through Mrs. Wadman's imagination, my uncle Toby had risen from
the sopha, and got to the other side of the parlour door, to give Trim an order about it in
the passage--

...--I believe it is in the garret, said my uncle Toby--I saw it there, an' please your honour,
this morning, answered Trim--Then prithee, step directly for it, Trim, said my uncle Toby,
and bring it into the parlour.

The corporal did not approve of the orders, but most cheerfully obeyed them. The first was
not an act of his will--the second was; so he put on his Montero-cap, and went as fast as his
lame knee would let him. My uncle Toby returned into the parlour, and sat himself down again
upon the sopha.

--You shall lay your finger upon the place--said my uncle Toby.--I will not touch it, however,
quoth Mrs. Wadman to herself.

This requires a second translation:--it shews what little knowledge is got by mere words--we
must go up to the first springs.

Now in order to clear up the mist which hangs upon these three pages, I must endeavour to be
as clear as possible myself.

Rub your hands thrice across your foreheads--blow your noses--cleanse your emunctories--sneeze,
my good people!--God bless you--

Now give me all the help you can.

Chapter 4.LXXX.

As there are fifty different ends (counting all ends in--as well civil as religious) for which
a woman takes a husband, the first sets about and carefully weighs, then separates and distinguishes
in her mind, which of all that number of ends is hers; then by discourse, enquiry, argumentation,
and inference, she investigates and finds out whether she has got hold of the right one--and
if she has--then, by pulling it gently this way and that way, she further forms a judgment,
whether it will not break in the drawing.

The imagery under which Slawkenbergius impresses this upon the reader's fancy, in the beginning
of his third Decad, is so ludicrous, that the honour I bear the sex, will not suffer me to
quote it--otherwise it is not destitute of humour.

'She first, saith Slawkenbergius, stops the asse, and holding his halter in her left hand (lest
he should get away) she thrusts her right hand into the very bottom of his pannier to search
for it--For what?--you'll not know the sooner, quoth Slawkenbergius, for interrupting me--

'I have nothing, good Lady, but empty bottles;' says the asse.

'I'm loaded with tripes;' says the second.

--And thou art little better, quoth she to the third; for nothing is there in thy panniers
but trunk-hose and pantofles--and so to the fourth and fifth, going on one by one through the
whole string, till coming to the asse which carries it, she turns the pannier upside down,
looks at it--considers it--samples it--measures it--stretches it--wets it--dries it--then takes
her teeth both to the warp and weft of it.

--Of what? for the love of Christ!

I am determined, answered Slawkenbergius, that all the powers upon earth shall never wring
that secret from my breast.

Chapter 4.LXXXI.

We live in a world beset on all sides with mysteries and riddles--and so 'tis no matter--else
it seems strange, that Nature, who makes every thing so well to answer its destination, and
seldom or never errs, unless for pastime, in giving such forms and aptitudes to whatever passes
through her hands, that whether she designs for the plough, the caravan, the cart--or whatever
other creature she models, be it but an asse's foal, you are sure to have the thing you wanted;
and yet at the same time should so eternally bungle it as she does, in making so simple a thing
as a married man.

Whether it is in the choice of the clay--or that it is frequently spoiled in the baking; by
an excess of which a husband may turn out too crusty (you know) on one hand--or not enough
so, through defect of heat, on the other--or whether this great Artificer is not so attentive
to the little Platonic exigences of that part of the species, for whose use she is fabricating
this--or that her Ladyship sometimes scarce knows what sort of a husband will do--I know not:
we will discourse about it after supper.

It is enough, that neither the observation itself, or the reasoning upon it, are at all to
the purpose--but rather against it; since with regard to my uncle Toby's fitness for the marriage
state, nothing was ever better: she had formed him of the best and kindliest clay--had temper'd
it with her own milk, and breathed into it the sweetest spirit--she had made him all gentle,
generous, and humane--she had filled his heart with trust and confidence, and disposed every
passage which led to it, for the communication of the tenderest offices--she had moreover considered
the other causes for which matrimony was ordained--

And accordingly....

The Donation was not defeated by my uncle Toby's wound.

Now this last article was somewhat apocryphal; and the Devil, who is the great disturber of
our faiths in this world, had raised scruples in Mrs. Wadman's brain about it; and like a true
devil as he was, had done his own work at the same time, by turning my uncle Toby's Virtue
thereupon into nothing but empty bottles, tripes, trunk-hose, and pantofles.

Chapter 4.LXXXII.

Mrs. Bridget had pawn'd all the little stock of honour a poor chamber-maid was worth in the
world, that she would get to the bottom of the affair in ten days; and it was built upon one
of the most concessible postulata in nature: namely, that whilst my uncle Toby was making love
to her mistress, the corporal could find nothing better to do, than make love to her--'And
I'll let him as much as he will, said Bridget, to get it out of him.'

Friendship has two garments; an outer and an under one. Bridget was serving her mistress's
interests in the one--and doing the thing which most pleased herself in the other: so had as
many stakes depending upon my uncle Toby's wound, as the Devil himself--Mrs. Wadman had but
one--and as it possibly might be her last (without discouraging Mrs. Bridget, or discrediting
her talents) was determined to play her cards herself.

She wanted not encouragement: a child might have look'd into his hand--there was such a plainness
and simplicity in his playing out what trumps he had--with such an unmistrusting ignorance
of the ten-ace--and so naked and defenceless did he sit upon the same sopha with widow Wadman,
that a generous heart would have wept to have won the game of him.

Let us drop the metaphor.

Chapter 4.LXXXIII.

--And the story too--if you please: for though I have all along been hastening towards this
part of it, with so much earnest desire, as well knowing it to be the choicest morsel of what
I had to offer to the world, yet now that I am got to it, any one is welcome to take my pen,
and go on with the story for me that will--I see the difficulties of the descriptions I'm going
to give--and feel my want of powers.

It is one comfort at least to me, that I lost some fourscore ounces of blood this week in a
most uncritical fever which attacked me at the beginning of this chapter; so that I have still
some hopes remaining, it may be more in the serous or globular parts of the blood, than in
the subtile aura of the brain--be it which it will--an Invocation can do no hurt--and I leave
the affair entirely to the invoked, to inspire or to inject me according as he sees good.

The Invocation.

Gentle Spirit of sweetest humour, who erst did sit upon the easy pen of my beloved Cervantes;
Thou who glidedst daily through his lattice, and turned'st the twilight of his prison into
noon-day brightness by thy presence--tinged'st his little urn of water with heaven-sent nectar,
and all the time he wrote of Sancho and his master, didst cast thy mystic mantle o'er his wither'd
stump (He lost his hand at the battle of Lepanto.), and wide extended it to all the evils of
his life--

--Turn in hither, I beseech thee!--behold these breeches!--they are all I have in world--that
piteous rent was given them at Lyons--

My shirts! see what a deadly schism has happen'd amongst 'em--for the laps are in Lombardy,
and the rest of 'em here--I never had but six, and a cunning gypsey of a laundress at Milan
cut me off the fore-laps of five--To do her justice, she did it with some consideration--for
I was returning out of Italy.

And yet, notwithstanding all this, and a pistol tinder-box which was moreover filch'd from
me at Sienna, and twice that I pay'd five Pauls for two hard eggs, once at Raddicoffini, and
a second time at Capua--I do not think a journey through France and Italy, provided a man keeps
his temper all the way, so bad a thing as some people would make you believe: there must be
ups and downs, or how the duce should we get into vallies where Nature spreads so many tables
of entertainment.--'Tis nonsense to imagine they will lend you their voitures to be shaken
to pieces for nothing; and unless you pay twelve sous for greasing your wheels, how should
the poor peasant get butter to his bread?--We really expect too much--and for the livre or
two above par for your suppers and bed--at the most they are but one shilling and ninepence
halfpenny--who would embroil their philosophy for it? for heaven's and for your own sake, pay
it--pay it with both hands open, rather than leave Disappointment sitting drooping upon the
eye of your fair Hostess and her Damsels in the gate-way, at your departure--and besides, my
dear Sir, you get a sisterly kiss of each of 'em worth a pound--at least I did--

--For my uncle Toby's amours running all the way in my head, they had the same effect upon
me as if they had been my own--I was in the most perfect state of bounty and good-will; and
felt the kindliest harmony vibrating within me, with every oscillation of the chaise alike;
so that whether the roads were rough or smooth, it made no difference; every thing I saw or
had to do with, touch'd upon some secret spring either of sentiment or rapture.

--They were the sweetest notes I ever heard; and I instantly let down the fore-glass to hear
them more distinctly--'Tis Maria; said the postillion, observing I was listening--Poor Maria,
continued he (leaning his body on one side to let me see her, for he was in a line betwixt
us), is sitting upon a bank playing her vespers upon her pipe, with her little goat beside her.

The young fellow utter'd this with an accent and a look so perfectly in tune to a feeling heart,
that I instantly made a vow, I would give him a four-and-twenty sous piece, when I got to Moulins--

--And who is poor Maria? said I.

The love and piety of all the villages around us; said the postillion--it is but three years
ago, that the sun did not shine upon so fair, so quick-witted and amiable a maid; and better
fate did Maria deserve, than to have her Banns forbid, by the intrigues of the curate of the
parish who published them--

He was going on, when Maria, who had made a short pause, put the pipe to her mouth, and began
the air again--they were the same notes;--yet were ten times sweeter: It is the evening service
to the Virgin, said the young man--but who has taught her to play it--or how she came by her
pipe, no one knows; we think that heaven has assisted her in both; for ever since she has been
unsettled in her mind, it seems her only consolation--she has never once had the pipe out of
her hand, but plays that service upon it almost night and day.

The postillion delivered this with so much discretion and natural eloquence, that I could not
help decyphering something in his face above his condition, and should have sifted out his
history, had not poor Maria taken such full possession of me.

We had got up by this time almost to the bank where Maria was sitting: she was in a thin white
jacket, with her hair, all but two tresses, drawn up into a silk-net, with a few olive leaves
twisted a little fantastically on one side--she was beautiful; and if ever I felt the full
force of an honest heart-ache, it was the moment I saw her--

--God help her! poor damsel! above a hundred masses, said the postillion, have been said in
the several parish churches and convents around, for her,--but without effect; we have still
hopes, as she is sensible for short intervals, that the Virgin at last will restore her to
herself; but her parents, who know her best, are hopeless upon that score, and think her senses
are lost for ever.

As the postillion spoke this, Maria made a cadence so melancholy, so tender and querulous,
that I sprung out of the chaise to help her, and found myself sitting betwixt her and her goat
before I relapsed from my enthusiasm.