She tapped their cheeks lightly with a cool, sweet-smelling finger. Miss Honey smiled uncertainly,
but Caroline edged away. There was something about this beautiful tall lady she could not understand,
something that alternately attracted and repelled. She was grown up, certainly; her skirts,
her size, and her coiled hair proved that conclusively, and the servants obeyed her without
question. But what was it? She was not like other grown-up people one knew. One moment she
sparkled at you and the next moment she forgot you. It was perfectly obvious that she wanted
the General only because Delia had not wanted to relinquish him, which was not like grown people;
it was like--yes, that was it: she was like a little girl, herself, even though she was so
tall and had such large red and blue rings on her fingers.

Vaguely this rushed through Caroline's mind, and it was with an unconscious air of patronage
that she said, as one making allowances for inexperience, "When you get married, then you'll
have to get tired of them, you know."

"But you'll be glad you've got 'em, when they're once in bed," Miss Honey added encouragingly.
"My mother says I'm a real treasure to her, after half-past seven!"

The Princess flushed; her straight dark eyebrows quivered and met for an instant.

"But I am married," she said.

There was an utter silence.

"I was married five years ago yesterday, as it happens," she went on, "but it's not necessary
to set up a day nursery, you know, under those circumstances."

Still silence. Miss Honey studied the floor, and Caroline, after an astonished stare at the
Princess, directed her eyes from one tapestry to another.

"I suppose you understand that, don't you?" demanded the Princess sharply. She appeared unnecessarily
irritated, and as a matter of fact embarrassed her guests to such an extent that they were
utterly unable to relieve the stillness that oppressed them quite as much as herself.

The Princess uttered an angry exclamation and paced rapidly up and down the room, looking more
regal and more unlike other people than ever.

"For heaven's sake, say something, you little sillies!" she cried. "I suppose you want me to
lose my temper?"

Caroline gulped and Miss Honey examined her shoe-ties mutely.

Suddenly a well-known voice floated toward them.

"Was his nice bottle all ready? Wait a minute, only a minute now, General, and Delia'll give
it to you!"

The procession filed into the room, Delia and the General, Ellis deferentially holding a tiny
white coat, the man in livery bearing a small copper saucepan in which he balanced a white
bottle with some difficulty. His face was full of anxious interest.

Delia thanked them both gravely, seated herself on the foot of the basket-chair, arranged the
General flat across her knees, and, amid the excited silence of her audience, shook the bottle
once or twice with the air of an alchemist on the brink of an epoch-making discovery.

"Want it? Does Delia's baby want it?" she asked enticingly. The General waved his arms and
legs wildly; wreathed in smiles, he opened and shut his mouth in quick alternation, chirping
and clucking, as she held it up before him; an ecstatic wriggling pervaded him, and he chuckled
unctuously. A moment later only his deep-drawn, nozzling breaths could be heard in the room.

"He takes it beautiful," said Delia, in low tones, looking confidentially at the Princess.
"I didn't know but being in a strange place might make a difference with him, but he's the
best-baby!----"

She wiped his mouth when he had finished, and lifting him, still horizontal, approached her
hostess.

"You can hold him now," she said superbly, "but keep him flat for twenty minutes, please. I'll
go and take the bottle down, and get his carriage ready. He'll be good. He'll take a little
nap, most likely."

She laid him across the rose-colored lap of the Princess, who looked curiously down on him,
and offered him her finger tentatively. "I never held one before," she explained. "I--I don't
know." ... The General smiled lazily and patted the finger, picking at the great sapphire.

"How soft its hands are," said the Princess. "They slip off, they are so smooth! And how good--does
it never cry?" This she said half to herself, and Caroline and Miss Honey, knowing there was
no need to answer her, came and leaned against her knee unconsciously, and twinkled their fingers
at the baby.

"Hello, General! Hello!" they cried softly, and the General smiled impartially at them and
caressed the lady's finger.

The Princess stroked his cheek. "What a perfectly exquisite skin!" she said, and bending over
him, kissed him delicately.

"How good it smells--how--how different!" she murmured. "I thought they--I thought they didn't."

Miss Honey had taken the lady's other hand, and was examining the square ruby with a diamond
on either side.

"My mother says that's the principal reason to have a baby," she remarked, absorbed in the
glittering thing. "You sprinkle 'em all over with violet powder--just like doughnuts with sugar--and
kiss 'em. Some people think they get germs that way, but my mother says if she couldn't kiss
'em she wouldn't have 'em!"

The Princess bent over the baby again.

"It's going to sleep here!" she said, half fearfully, with an inquiring glance at the two.
"Oughtn't one to rock it?"

Miss Honey shook her head severely. "Not General," she answered, "he won't stand it. My mother
tried again and again--could I take that blue ring a minute? I'd be awful careful--but he wouldn't.
He sits up and he lies down, but he won't rock."

"I might sing to him," suggested the Princess, brushing a damp lock from the General's warm
forehead and slipping her ringless finger into his curved fist carefully. "Would he like it?"

"No, he wouldn't," said Miss Honey bluntly, twisting the ring around her finger. "He only likes
two people to sing--Delia and my mother. Was that ruby ring a 'ngagement ring?"

Caroline interfered diplomatically, "General would be very much obliged," she explained politely,
"except that my Aunt Deedee is a very good singer indeed, and Uncle Joe says General's taste
is ruined for just common singing."

The Princess stared at her blankly.

"Oh, indeed!" she remarked. Then she smiled, again in that whimsical, expressive way. "You
don't think I could sing well enough for him--as well as your mother?"

Miss Honey laughed carelessly. "My mother is a singer," she said, "a real one. She used to
sing in concerts--real ones. In theaters. Real theaters, I mean," as the lady appeared to be
still amused.

"If you know where the Waldorf Hotel is," Caroline interrupted, "she has sung in that, and
it was five dollars to get in. It was to send the poor children to a Fresh Air Fund. It--it's
not the same as you would sing--or me," she added politely.

The lady arose suddenly and deposited the General, like a doll, with one swift motion, in the
basket-chair. Striding across the room she turned, flushed and tall, and confronted the wondering
children.

"I will sing for you," she said haughtily, "and you can judge better!"

With a great sweep of her half bare arm, she brushed aside a portiére and disappeared. A crashing
chord rolled out from a piano behind the curtains and ceased abruptly.

"What does your mother sing?" she demanded, not raising her voice, it seemed, and yet they
heard her as plainly as when they had leaned against her knee.

"She sings, 'My Heart's Own Heart,'" Miss Honey called back defiantly.

"And it's printed on the song, 'To Madame Edith Holt'!" shrilled Caroline.

The familiar prelude was played with a firm, elastic touch, the opening chords struck, and
a great, shining voice, masterful, like a golden trumpet, filled the room. Caroline sat dumb;
Miss Honey, instinctively humming the prelude, got up from her foot-stool and followed the
music, unconscious that she walked. She had been privileged to hear more good singing in her
eight years than most people in twenty-four, had Miss Honey, and she knew that this was no
ordinary occasion. She did not know she was listening to one of the greatest voices her country
had ever produced--perhaps in time to be known for the head of them all--but her sensitive
little soul swelled in her, and her childish jealousy was drowned deep in that river of wonderful
sound.

Higher and sweeter and higher yet climbed the melody; one last triumphant leap, and it was over.

"My heart--my heart--my heart's own heart!"

The Princess stood before them in the echoes of her glory, her breath quick, her eyes brilliant.

"Well?" she said, looking straight at Miss Honey, "do I sing as well as your mother?"

Miss Honey clenched her fists and caught her breath. Her heart was breaking, but she could not lie.

"You--you"--she motioned blindly to Caroline, and turned away.

"You sing better," Caroline began sullenly, but the lady pointed to Miss Honey.

"No, you tell me," she insisted remorselessly.

Miss Honey faced her.

"You--you sing better than my m--mother," she gulped, "but I love her better, and she's nicer
than you, and I don't love you at all!"

She buried her face in the red velvet throne, and sobbed aloud with excitement and fatigue.
Caroline ran to her: how could she have loved that cruel woman? She cast an ugly look at the
Princess as she went to comfort Miss Honey, but the Princess was at the throne before her.

"Oh, I am abominable!" she cried. "I am too horrid to live! It wasn't kind of me, chérie, and
I love you for standing up for your mother. There's no one to do as much for me, when I'm down
and out--no one!" Sorrow swept over her flexible face like a veil, and seizing Miss Honey in
her strong, nervous arms, she wept on her shoulder.

Caroline, worn with the strain of the day, wept too, and even the General, abandoned in the
great chair, burst into a tiny warning wail.

Quick as thought the Princess was upon him, and had raised him against her cheek.

"Hush, hush, don't cry--don't cry, little thing," she whispered, and sank into one of the high
carved chairs with him.

"No, no, I'll hold him," she protested, as Delia entered, her arms out. "I'm going to sing
to him. May I? He's sleepy."

Delia nodded indulgently. "For half an hour," she said, as one allowing a great privilege,
"and then we must go."

"What do you sing to him?" the Princess questioned humbly.

"I generally sing 'Flow Gently Sweet Afton,'" the nurse answered. "Do you know it?"

"I think so," and the Princess began a sort of glorified humming, like a great drowsy bee,
all resonant and tremulous.

Soft the great voice was, soft and widely flowing: to Caroline, who had retreated to the further
end of the music-room, so that Delia should not see her tears, it seemed as if Delia herself,
a wonderful new Delia, were singing her, a baby again, to sleep. She felt soothed, cradled,
protected by that lapping sea of melody that drifted her off her moorings, out of the room....

Vaguely she saw Miss Honey, relaxed on the red throne, smile in her sleep, one arm falling
over the broad seat. Was it in her dream that some one in a blue and white apron--not Delia,
for Delia was singing--leaned back slowly in the long basket-chair and closed her tired eyes?
Who was it that held the General close in her arms, and smiled as he patted her cheek at the
familiar song, and mumbled her fingers with happy, cooing noises?

The General's head was growing heavy, but he smiled confidingly into the dark eyes above him
and stretched himself out in full-fed, drowsy content. One hand slipped through the lace under
his cheek and rested on the singer's soft breast. She started like a frightened woman, and
her voice broke.

Down in the hall the butler and the maid sat on the lower stair.

"Ain't it grand?" she whispered, and Haddock nodded dreamily.

"Mother used to sing us that in the old country," he said. "There was Tom and 'Enry an' me--Lord,
Lord!"

The General was asleep. Sometimes a tiny frown drew his eyebrows together. Sometimes he clenched
and uncurled his warm hands. Sometimes he sucked softly at nothing with moist, reminiscent
lips. But on and on, over and over, rose and fell the quaint old song.

    My Mary's asleep by thy murmuring stream!

It flooded the hushed house, it spread a net of dreams about the listening people there and
coaxed them back to childhood and a child's protected sleep. It seemed a song that could not
stop, that must return on its simple refrain so long as there were arms to encircle and breasts
to lean upon.

Two men came softly up a smaller stair than the grand entrance flight, and paused in amazement
at sight of Caroline stretched full length across the threshold. The older and smaller of the
men had in fact stepped on her, and confused and half awake, she listened to his apologies.

"Sh! sh!" he whispered excitedly, "not a vordt! not a vordt! Mein Gott! but it is marvelous!
My friend, vot is this?"

He peeped behind the drawn curtains and withdrew a face of wonder.

"It is nodding but children--and they sleep!" he hissed. "Oh, but listen, listen! And I offered
her fifteen hundert dollars for two hours only of that!"

The other man peeped behind the curtains in his turn, and seizing Caroline by the arm tiptoed
with her to a farther room.

"What--who--what is the meaning of this?" he whispered hoarsely. "That child--where----"

Caroline rubbed her eyes. The golden voice rose and fell around her.

"General--Delia," she muttered, and stumbled against him. He lifted her limp little body and
laid it gently on a leather sofa.

"Another time," he said softly to the other man, "I--we cannot talk with you now. Will you
excuse us?"

The man looked longingly at the curtains.

"She will never do more well than that. Never!" he hissed. "Oh, my friend, hear it grow soft!
Yes, yes, I am going."

It seemed to Caroline that in a dream some one with a red face and glasses askew shook her
by the shoulder and said to her sternly, "Sh! sh! Listen to me. To-day you hear a great artist--hey?
Vill you forget it? I must go because they do not vant me, but you vill stay and listen. There
is here no such voice. Velvet! Honey! Sh! sh!" and he went the way of dreams.

The man who stayed looked long through the curtains.

As a swing droops slow and slower, as the ripples fade from a stone thrown in the stream, the
song of the Princess softened and crooned and hushed. Now it was a rich breath, a resonant thread.

    Flow gently, sweet Afton----

The man stepped across the room and sank below the General at her feet. With her finger on
her lips she turned her eyes to his and looked deep into them. He caught his breath with a
sob, and wrapping his arm about her as he knelt, hid his face on her lap, against the General.
She laid her hand on his head, across the warm little body, and patted it tenderly. Around
them lay the sleepers; the General's soft breath was in their ears. The man lifted his head
and looked adoringly at the Princess; her hand caressed his cheek, but her eyes looked beyond
him into the future. I was in my best form, feeling well and jolly! I took kindly to their
dishes--their cookery, at its best, is better than the French--and I sadly missed planked shad,
terrapin, and the oyster--at its best and at its cheapest in America--when I returned to England.

Travelling in America

The American hotels seemed luxurious even in 1883; but it only takes ten years there for an
hotel to be quite done, to become old-fashioned and useless as a rusty nail. Hotel life in
America is now the perfection of comfort. Hotels as good as the Savoy, the Ritz, the Carlton,
and Claridge's can be counted by the dozen in New York, and are to be found in all the principal
cities. The only thing that we found was better understood in England, so far as railway travelling
is concerned, was privacy. Why should he make a boast of it?

At Chicago I made my first speech. 'Hail Columbia'!"

"Lonesome Brooklyn" It is like the work of some impersonal power.

Fussie and "Charles I." When
    we got in, J----, H----, and I dined at the Câfé Royale.
    Everything of mine I've moved away, including the Cat!" I can only ejaculate. "How
dare you write in my book!" she cried with rage.
Still, it was dreadful of me and I did feel ashamed at the time. We were playing in New York when the
storm began, and Henry came to fetch us at half-past ten in the morning. "We
have been before you--we shall be after you," they seem to say.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Alexander had just succeeded Terriss as our leading young man.

THE HERITAGE OF HAM

BY

LIEUTENANT HUGH M. KELLY, U. S. A.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY ARTHUR S. COVEY

"To be hanged by the neck until dead." Well, no one was surprised. It was a foregone conclusion.
Desertion to the enemy in time of war is one of the crimes military that cuts a man off from
any chance for clemency. When he lifts his hands against his former comrades, he is as one
already dead; that is, if he is caught. Private Wilson made the fatal mistake of being caught.
The result was inevitable.

Though Private Wilson was expecting these very words, the sound of them, cutting the absolute
silence, sent a cold contraction to his heart, and his thick lips drew themselves over his
white teeth. Doubtless, if it had been possible, he would have turned pale; but since he was
as black as the proverbial ace of spades, this was out of the question. Private Wilson belonged
to the 19th Cavalry, which, as the initiated know, is a negro regiment.

There was no movement in the still line of the squadron when the fatal order was read, except
a slight tremor, almost imperceptible, like the first faint rustling of leaves in the dead
quiet that precedes a storm. Then from the right of "B" Troop there came a deep, indrawn breath,
and the first sergeant's horse sprang sideways, in amazement, against that of the guidon. The
animal was accustomed to being treated as tenderly as an infant, and now, for no fault whatever,
he had received a rough pressure from his rider's knees, and a sharp dig from the spurs. The
first sergeant was old Jeremiah Wilson, and the prisoner, standing to the "front and center"
in the gathering dusk, and hearing his fate pronounced, was Jeremiah's son.

Sergeant Wilson was the one man in the squadron who had hoped against hope, and now that hope
was dead. It died hard, and its death was recorded in that contraction of the knees and dig
of the spurs. The guidon paid no attention. In his heart he believed that the sentence was
just; but his pity went out to the old soldier on his right. His eyes, however, were fixed
on Private Wilson, as were those of the rest of the squadron. The prisoner had acquired a new
status. Here was a human being within two weeks of the solution of the greatest of all mysteries.
He was worth looking at. The condemned man saw the interest shown in him, and, upheld by the
feeling of self-importance inherent in the negro character, and always brought to the surface
by applause or other manifestation of unusual attention, bore himself jauntily.

There was nothing of this to sustain his old father. He had participated in executions before.
For him there were no visions of walking to death with a "firm tread," as the papers say, and
"dying game" before the admiring eyes of soldiers and natives. With him it was steel-ribbed
facts. He could hear the bang of the trap, the snap of the rope, and the quivering creak of
the scaffold. And afterward, the lonely, hopeless years. Besides, the dishonor of it. What
irony to parade with thirty years of service chevrons on his sleeves, and be pointed out as
the father of a man hanged for deserting to the Filipinos!

The officers went to the front and center and the formation was over. Private Wilson departed
to his closely guarded prison, and old Jeremiah took the troop to quarters and dismissed it.
For the first time in twenty years he forgot to "open chamber and magazine," and publish the
details for the next day. He wanted to be alone; away from the pitying eyes of the black men
of the troop.

He had honestly believed that there were grounds for hope. He could not see now, in the face
of the evidence, how the court could have given "Buff" the extreme penalty. He thought he had
explained the circumstances so clearly. Hadn't he told the tribunal of the baleful influence
of Mercedes Martinez? how this mestiza, had lured his boy to his downfall? He thought he had
shown positively, by his testimony, that this woman had terrible "voodoo" powers and had conjured
"Buff." Hadn't they apparently listened with wonder while he related the charms that had been
brought to bear on his son? the devils that had pursued him; the angels that had beckoned him
away to the hills; the divine call he had received to be the George Washington of the Filipinos,
and lead them to freedom?

The old soldier's pride in his son's physical perfection had always blinded him to the fact
that the private was constantly in trouble, and was known as a "bad egg." If any one had told
him that he was an object of pity because of his boy's worthlessness, he would have sputtered
with indignation. He never realized that Buff escaped many a "bawling out" because the officers
respected the father's long years of faithful service and did not want to humiliate him. He
knew that his boy flew high occasionally, but that was because he was "jess nachally sprightly
and full o' devilment." No one could deny that Private Wilson was one of the finest animals,
physically, that ever wore the uniform; or that he had gained a wide reputation among his comrades
and the Filipinos on account of his terrible abilities in a hand-to-hand engagement. It was
this very notoriety that had attracted the insurgents' attention to him, and led to his downfall.

The little brown men stood in awe of this black demon, and wanted him on their side. His military
training and reputation as a fighter would be of inestimable value. With their usual craft
the insurgent officials went about to wean the soldier from his allegiance, and by the aid
of the mestiza beauty, Mercedes Martinez, succeeded in their purpose. Between retreat and reveille
of one July night, Private Wilson, led by visions of love and a brigadier-general's star, took
to the hills. He longed to emulate the black renegade, Fagan, but having none of Fagan's "foxiness"
or ability, he was soon laid by the heels. Men of his own squadron took him. He demanded at
first to be treated as befitted his rank; but none of his self-importance went with his black
captors. "We'll brigidiale-gene'al yer, yer black scound'al," they remarked cheerfully, as
they stripped off his tinsel stars. "Yer oughter be lynched."

They "Gen'al Wilsoned" him until he was sick of it and begged them to stop. Then, when they
got back to the station, they popped him into the "jigger" along with privates charged with
sassing the cook and other heinous offenses--a most humiliating experience for a brigadier
general. Now he must die; and it came to him that it was as hard for a general officer to die
as ever it was for a private.

When his son had disappeared, old Sergeant Wilson had borne himself proudly, even in the face
of rumors and insinuations. His boy would not desert. That he might have gone outside the lines
to see some "lady friend" and been captured, yes; but no desertion. Even when tales of his
lurid doings out in the province began to come in, old Jeremiah had not faltered in his faith.
They were lies, all of them, or it was some other man. Nor when Buff was taken, with his patent-leather
boots and tin stars, was the old man shaken; for the explanation that the private gave as to
how he had been conjured was easier for Wilson to believe than that his "baby" had been false
to his salt. But now the case was different. The disgrace of being parent to a "bobtailed"
and condemned criminal was as the bitterness of death.

Up to now, for all his hard sixty years of life, he had carried himself like a lance. The whiteness
of age in his woolly hair was not reflected in the iron spirit that upheld his wrinkled body.
But the shame of those words spoken on parade had undone that, as suddenly as ashes crumble
before the touch.

The days immediately following the publishing of Buff's sentence were nightmares of pain and
humiliation. The old negro could hardly bring himself to go to headquarters at first sergeant's
call. When he did go, he moved heavily, like a man asleep, and with his eyes fixed on the ground,
that he might not meet the curious, pitying glances of his fellow soldiers.

After a week of this, old Jeremiah began to make mistakes at drill and mistakes in his troop
papers; a thing hitherto unknown. Finally Lieutenant Perkins, the troop commander, lost his
patience at some bull the old sergeant made, and called him down roughly, in the presence of
the troop.

"Look here, Sergeant Wilson, I won't have any more of this. I'll bust you higher than a kite.
I don't care if you've had fifty years of service. If you are mooning about that worthless
boy of yours, you had better get over it. It's a damn good riddance, and you know it as well
as I do. You'll have to take a brace or something will drop."

If Perkins had not been born several degrees north of Mason and Dixon's line he would have
known better than that; as it was, he did not understand these negroes. He hadn't the faintest
conception of how to handle these simple-hearted black men. He was not popular with them at
any time, and this unheard-of piece of cruelty cut every tender-hearted trooper as deeply as
if it had been aimed at him personally. This was the first break, and, as a consequence, something
did drop, in a way that Perkins hardly expected.

The old sergeant made no reply to this reprimand, but simply stood at attention, though his
black, weazened face worked and his lips trembled. It was the first time since he was a buck
private that he had been spoken to in such a manner. For the first time, the yoke of discipline
galled him. The bitterness of his inferiority and servitude was as wormwood within him. The
harsh injustice of such treatment in this, his black hour, after years of faithful work, aroused
in him a demon of resentment that made him long to strike back.

The occurrence startled him from his lethargy. He suddenly realized that his son's few remaining
hours on earth were slipping by, and the boy had not been comforted. When this came to him,
his self-reproach cut him sharply, and he resolved to make amends at once. He obtained permission
from the officer of the day, and that evening, after retreat, went to see Buff.

He found the general plucked of his plumage. The prospect of death so close to him had narrowed
the black boy's perspective. "The worldly hope men set their hearts upon" had turned ashes,
and it were hard to find "a man who looked so wistfully on the day" as this doomed soldier.
He wanted to live. Every atom of animal strength in his perfect body was charged with a desire
to exist. This living, day after day, in close proximity to the grave had tended to a simplification
of ideas. He had harked back to childhood, and when his father came, the prisoner, in his clanking
irons, turned to him as a pickaninny might have done for protection from some bugaboo.

Old Jeremiah sat on the cot, while Buff occupied a small stool directly in front of him. They
talked in low tones, of ordinary subjects, at first; then gradually went back through the years.
The white-haired old negro and the young soldier both smiled as they recalled childish escapades
of the latter, 'way back in "God's country." They lost themselves in reminiscence, and forgot
the present, until the wan moon, coming up, cast the shadows of the bars in the window across
them. Then with a shiver they remembered.

Suddenly the private began to talk of his death, and as he spoke the terror of it grew on him.
This man, known to have killed more than one American soldier and to be absolutely fearless
in battle, quaked with abject fright. He would contend gladly in a contest against hopeless
odds; but at the thought of his end creeping on him thus, slowly, inexorably his soul writhed
in terror. He leaned forward and pressed his face on his father's knees.

"Oh, paw, ain't yer gwine ter help me? Won't you do somethin' fer me? Ah doan' wanter die yit.
Tain't my time ter die. Ah nevah meant no hahm, paw. Ef they'll just give me one moah chanst,
ah'll do anything they say. Honest, ah will. Gawd! paw, yer ain't gwine ter let 'em kill me,
is yer?"

The soldier raised his head and looked into the sergeant's black face as though the latter
were omnipotent, and only had to say the word to make him free. Then, with a shivering sigh,
he laid his head on his father's knees again.

"Sh--sh," the old sergeant said softly, "Sh--sh"; and that was all he could do; but his wrinkled
hand wandered tenderly over the prisoner's black, kinky hair, and tears rolled down his seamed
face.

When Buff's panic wore off a bit, he was made to lie down, and Jeremiah, sitting beside him,
crooned softly, as the old black mammies do to the little children. By the time call to quarters
sounded, the condemned man's quiet breathing told that his earthly troubles were forgotten,
for a time at least.

After this visit, Sergeant Wilson's apparent neglect of his duties became more pronounced than
ever. The simplest orders and directions received from his troop's commander, he either forgot
to perform or executed in such a bunglesome manner as to drive Lieutenant Perkins' irritable
nature to the verge of hysteria. The latter, with his narrow sympathies, could make no allowance
for the old negro's state of mind, and his "roasts" became more frequent and rougher with each
repetition. The sergeant took it all with apparent resignation; but within him the troubled
spirit was surging to and fro. It was the unfairness of it that aroused his resentment.

If the "ole Cap'n" were only here, all would be well. It was another cruel stroke that he should
be absent on detached service just when Jeremiah needed him most.

Soldiers are a peculiar breed. They are more nearly like children in certain characteristics
than any other class of men. They are so accustomed to being taken care of by their officers
that they look to the latter for everything. When they find one who they know will stand up
for them, and whom they can trust, their faith and confidence in him are absolute. They will
follow him through fire and flood, and obey any order that he may give, in the blind belief
that he knows what is best for them. This is true of white soldiers, and much more so of the
darkies. This is the feeling that old Jeremiah and the men of the troop held for Captain North,
whom they all called the "ole Cap'n."

In all the years these two had served together, since the battle of the Rosebud, when Lieutenant
John T. North earned a medal of honor for "bringing in Private J. Wilson, 19th Cavalry, who
was wounded, under a heavy fire from the Indians, at the imminent risk of his own life," the
sergeant had never received a harsh word or a rebuke that he did not know was merited. But
the sullen fury that this young prig aroused in him was unbearable. He felt that his inherent
subordination to discipline was being torn to shreds.

This went on for three days. The discipline in the troop was growing ragged with startling
rapidity, and Perkins felt it. The men, under the constant abuse heaped upon one whom they
respected and pitied, were growing sullen and restive. Each of these soft-hearted troopers
was gradually acquiring and nursing a personal grudge. They were forgetting their ideas of
the fitness of things. They lost sight of everything except a clearly monumental piece of injustice.

Instead of meeting the issue fairly, and acknowledging the error of his position, Perkins became
obstinately harsher and harsher. Not only was he unnecessarily abusive to old Jeremiah, but
his treatment of the whole troop was stern to a degree. Finally, on this third day, after a
violent harangue in presence of the troop, he reduced the old negro from first sergeant to
sergeant.

This was the second break, and when Perkins went that morning to inspect the old church that
served as quarters, he found the men congregated in little groups in the squad room. There
was not the usual loud-voiced chatter and laughter, but a sullen murmur that dropped to quick
silence when he entered. This was bad. There was nothing specific, but he instinctively felt
that he was losing his hold. He chafed to do something to "smash these niggers," but there
was nothing to seize upon; so he swore at a man loudly for not having his clothing arranged
properly, and ordered him to the guard-house. When the officer left, the same ominous murmur
arose in the quarters.

It was evident, also, that outside influences were beginning to work--the sign of the Katapunan.
There was hardly a man in "B" Troop but had his querida or sweetheart among the native women.
As one of the black soldiers remarked: "Ef de gem'men Filypinos had 'a' been as complacent
as de ladies, der nevah would 'a' bin no insurrecshun nohow." In their off hours the men, in
their grim anger, confided their troubles to these dusky females, and the crafty women began
to work upon the spirit of rebellion amongst the simple colored soldiers.

Why did they submit themselves to such a wretch as this Teniente Perkins? Why didn't they show
him that they were men to be feared? Why did they allow that magnificent black comrade, Wilson,
to be hanged, without making an effort to save him; when doing so would be the one thing that
would make Teniente Perkins wild with rage? They were too cunning to urge open mutiny, but
the seed they sowed gave growth to thought.

The darkies of "B" Troop were, first of all, soldiers. Subordination to the wills of their
superiors was ingrained in their natures. They did not want to "buck," but it seemed as if
the troop commander were trying to force them to rebel.

Two more days dragged by, and conditions in the troop grew worse. Perkins had heard some loud-mouthed
private baying forth incendiary, not to say uncomplimentary remarks; had placed the troop on
the straight ration, and suppressed the pass list. The men wandered about the quarters with
a nervous, preoccupied air. They did not look at each other. They felt that if they gave rein
to their feelings, something horrible would happen. They did not want it to happen; they wanted
to be good soldiers. But this man was forcing them; forcing their hands. There is a limit to
everything. What he had done was nothing if they had deserved it. It was the rank injustice
that made them furious. They felt that they must have some escape for their feelings or they
would burst through the bonds. Consequently, when Sergeant Potter broached his scheme, they
hailed it with acclamation. A little conference was held in one end of the quarters, and after
it was over Potter went to speak to old Jeremiah.

The ex-first sergeant had taken no part in the proceedings--in fact, he knew nothing of them.
He had stayed in his corner, where he had sat for the last three days, with his eyes fixed
on the floor, clasping and unclasping his hands. Sergeant Potter sat down on a bunk beside
him and touched him on the shoulder. The old man started.

"Look a yere, sarge, yer oughter take a brace. Me and the res' of de boys is mighty sorry fer
yer--we showly is. But yer mussent grieve so, cause yer showly gwineter be sick ef yer does."

"I'se obleeged to yer, Potter, you and de boys."

"Yes, suh, me an de boys feels mighty bad cause yer got busted, an'--an' about the other things.
Ef yer'll 'scuse me, sarge, fer talkin' about it, we wondered ef dere wahnt somethin' yer could
do fur--fur Buff."

Seeing the drawn look come back to the older man's face, Potter continued hurriedly----

"Thar now, sarge, I'se powerful sorry ef I'se hu't yoh feelin's, but me an' de boys thought
ef yer'd telegraph to Division Headquatahs, dey might do somethin'. 'Twon't do no hahm, nohow."

He then went on and talked in such a persuasive strain that, in spite of his common-sense,
a gleam of hope began to burn in Jeremiah's eyes. Yes, it would cost something, but the boys
had got together a little purse to defray the expenses of the telegram. This could be turned
over to the Lieutenant, who would doubtless have no difficulty in getting the necessary permission
from the squadron commander. The old man had been inactive and without hope for so long that
the idea of any effort embracing a chance of success aroused in him a fierce energy. Once persuaded,
he was impatient to be at work. If anything were to be done, it must be done at once. In the
next day and the next, Private Wilson's sands would have run out.

It was apparently a good omen that Lieutenant Perkins should walk into the quarters while they
were talking. Potter and Jeremiah went to him without loss of time and respectfully broached
their request. The rest of the men stood around at attention, trying to look as though they
were not listening, but straining their ears to catch every word. The officer heard them through,
and then burst out impatiently----

"Well, of all the wild-cat schemes I ever heard of, that is the worst. The idea, Wilson, of
a man of your length of service proposing such a thing. Hanging is too good for that son of
yours, and you know it. I'll have nothing to do with this, and don't want to hear any more
of it. That'll do now."

The silence that followed these words was silence indeed. Every man in the room caught them,
and there was not one of the fifty present who did not feel a hot, uncomfortable throbbing
at his temples.

In the old sergeant, the last connecting link of discipline was strained nearly to the breaking
point. An angry gleam appeared in his eyes, and he said in a low, shaking voice:

"Ve'ly well, Suh, I shall go to de commandin' officah."

"All right, you can do as you please about that; but you will hear from it," and Perkins walked
into the orderly room, where he proceeded to make life miserable for the subdued wretch who
was acting first sergeant of the troop.

In a few minutes the commanding officer's orderly presented the commanding officer's compliments
to Lieutenant Perkins, and informed him that the commanding officer would like to see him at
the office.

Major Don Carlos Bliss, who was known throughout the service as a splendid soldier, did not
think much of Perkins. He had had his eye on "B" Troop lately, and did not like the looks of
things a little bit. He was a man of strong convictions and never hesitated to express them.
He had known old Jeremiah Wilson for years, and when he learned of the latter's reduction,
his opinion that Perkins was a fool was duly confirmed. He knew that much of the lieutenant's
irritability was due to "nerves" acquired by a steady and conscientious course of drinking,
with which procedure he had no patience.

Perkins, when he entered, found the sergeant standing at the desk.

"Mr. Perkins," the Major said shortly, "while Sergeant Wilson's request is a little out of
the ordinary, I have no objection to his sending a telegram through this office. I can put
no recommendation for clemency in it, however, for I consider the sentence a just one. When
you get this message drafted the way Sergeant Wilson wants it, bring it to me, and let me see
it, and," he concluded, looking Perkins steadily in the eye from under his bushy brows, "I
advise you to do it at once."

The telegram went that afternoon. The plea for clemency was based, principally, upon Sergeant
Wilson's years of faithful service, and the fact that his son was too young to appreciate the
enormity of his crime.

Twenty-four hours passed, and there was no answer to the message. In that time Sergeant Jeremiah
Wilson drank deeply of the bitter cup. He had aged suddenly in the last two weeks. Brooding
in the hot, sticky, tropical days is not good for a man, especially when that man is no longer
young. Shapes and shadows in the brain grow rapidly, and soon assume enormous proportions.
Now the fluctuating tides of hope and despair gnawed steadily at the weakened foundation of
his reason. The men of the troop were more restless and ill at ease than ever. They had lost
sight of the fact that the prisoner's guilt was as black as the mouth of the pit. All they
saw was a darky soldier clinging tenaciously to his life, and the agony of that darky's father.
Each sympathetic trooper had begotten a personal interest that ruled him completely. Besides,
the mad hatred they bore Perkins and the hope of backsetting him led them on. Shapes and shadows
were growing in their minds also.

Twenty-seven hours after the appeal was sent to Division Headquarters a signal corps private
walked into "B" Troop's barracks and asked for Sergeant Jeremiah Wilson. When the latter was
pointed out, the man handed him the familiar yellow envelope, with the crossed signal flags
on the cover, and the burning torch. An instant quiet fell in the room, as Jeremiah received
the crackling paper. He took it deliberately, and with trembling fingers fumbled for his glasses.
Deliberately he put them on, and deliberately abstracted the message from the envelope, while
the silent troopers watched him with fascinated gaze. He unfolded the paper and stared at it,
then, taking off his glasses, wiped them and stared again; but it was no use, the mist dimmed
the lenses.

"Heah, Potter, you read hit," he said finally with unsteady voice. "De light's too bad. Ah
can't see."

Sergeant Potter took the telegram and spelled it out slowly:

            MANILA, P. I., OCT. 2, 1900.
                           5.30 P.M.

    SERGEANT J. WILSON,
        TR, "B," 19TH CAV.

    (Thro the Commanding Officer Guinibongbong, P. I.)

    The Division Commander will take no action nor grant any delay
    in case of Private B. Wilson, Nineteenth Cavalry. Has no
    objection to laying of case before President provided cable is
    without expense to government. Upon receipt of cable through
    this office indicating that such action is contemplated order of
    suspension will be issued.

        By order MAJOR GENERAL WHEATLEY,
    CASTIN, ADJUTANT GENERAL.

So that was the end of it. The irony, the humor of giving permission to lay the case before
the President; by cable, too, with cable-grams only costing fifty cents a word! What magnanimity,
what sarcasm, in sending such permission to a negro sergeant drawing twenty-six dollars a month!
It would have been better for Jeremiah's peace of mind if that part had been left out. After
it was over, and in the years to come, he would never be able to escape the thought that one
thing more might have been done to save Buff's life--that once chance was left untried because
of the lack of a few paltry dollars. Potter handed back the telegram slowly, and Jeremiah walked
out into the darkness to fight his fight alone.

The sergeant stopped on the small stone porch and looked out into the town plaza. The clouds
were low and dark in the late twilight, and as he stood, a few big drops fell, slowly increasing
until there was a heavy down-pour. The rains had come, and soon the monotonous roar on the
metal roofs, steady as the beating of a giant heart, told that the earth was receiving its
semi-annual deluge.

Jeremiah stood in a small niche where he was partially exposed to the rain. When it and the
water from a broken gutter, striking a balustrade beside him, splashed him with fine spray,
he made no effort to move. Why should he care? He was only a worthless old nigger. A little
wetness more or less would make no difference. A carelessness for all things earthly and pertaining
to his own worn-out old body grew upon him. Then he suddenly ceased to think of himself. The
sound of the rain in his ears seemed to be boring into his brain. Steady, inexorable, unanswerable
as fate, it weighed upon him like a giant hand, and it came to him that he was comparing that
roar to the death that was approaching his son.

       *       *       *       *       *

When old Jeremiah left the squad room, there had been general silence for a time, and then
events began to move rapidly, as they continued to do until the end of this peculiar episode.
Sergeant Potter stood for a moment, with his hands behind his back, gazing at the floor, then
he looked up, and cried out to the whole room:

"Look a heah, boys, is yer gwine ter be beat dis a way? Is yer gwine ter tuck yer tails atween
yer laigs, and say 'let 'er go!' as long as dere is a chanst? Is yer goin' to 'low dat monkey-faced
lootinint to grin at yer sarcastic? Yer know me. I'se as strong fur discipline as any pu'son;
but dere's a eend to every man's patience." He jerked a hat off a bunk near him, and threw
it down. "Dis is all de dough I got in de worl'," he said, holding up two silver dollars, "but
she'll send fo' words to de Presydent of dese United States, so heah she goes," and he tossed
them into the hat at his feet. "Come on, boys, dem as wants to be high-tone and pass de time
o' day with de Presydent, chip in."

As soon as they grasped the idea, the appeal was effectual. Out came all the cash the black
men had. It was mostly Mex. medio pesos and pesetas, for "pay day, pay day" had not sounded
for over a month. The silver jingled merrily into the hat, and the affair became a sort of
jollification, each man vying with the others to see how much more he could "dig up." Their
volatile natures, guided solely by impulse and an undercurrent of generosity, led them to give
all they had without thinking. Man after man, in high good-humor, plunged his hands into some
corner of his box locker and raked up little hoards of cash that he had saved for tobacco,
soap, and such necessities. However, when the silver was poured on the bed and counted, Sergeant
Potter scratched his woolly head.

"Tain't no kinder use, boys. Twenty-fo' dollars an' ten cents. Dat'll sen' fo'ty-eight big
words and one little 'un. Dat ain't nowhere near a'nuf. He'd show'ly feel mightly slighted,
de Presydent would, ef we did'n sen' 'im no mo' talk dan dat. We gotter 'spress dis thing logical
an' ellygant, ur he won't take no notice uf it, none whatever. We nacherally gotter have mo'
uf de muzuma."

This was very discouraging, and produced more deep thought and head rubbing, until Private
Andy Smith broke out:

"Well, dis ain't no time fer tu back out. Damn de 17th Article uv Wah[4]! Jess watch my smoke,
niggers."

The rest of the men observed him curiously as he shouldered his way out of the circle. He went
to his gold medal cot, and jerking off one of the fine, heavy army blankets, spread it on the
floor. Then he rummaged amongst the clothing in his locker, and taking out a pair of extra
shoes, a flannel shirt, and a white stable suit, rolled them into his blanket. Throwing the
bundle thus made over his shoulder, he stalked out into the rain.

The effect of this eminently lawless example was instantaneous. The splendid regulation blankets
and flannel shirts were at a premium among the natives, and the market was never dull. They
could be coined into pesos on sight. There was a grand rush, and soon the blankets and spare
articles of clothing went forth into the night, lugged by their respective owners. Shortly
the darkies, wet and steaming, began to stamp back into the quarters, and the "dobie dollars"
again clinked into the crown of Potter's old campaign hat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Roger Williams Perkins was what is known as a solitary drinker. They are the worst
kind. They drink by themselves, and purely for the effect. Doubtless their mental processes
at such times are curious indeed.

The rain was falling steadily outside. There was no chance that any of the other men would
come in to-night. Perkins sat alone at his table, as he had sat since six o'clock. It was now
eight, and as he reached to take "another one," he heard two persons coming up the steps. He
swore to himself and set the glass down. Turning, he found Sergeants Potter and Wilson at the
head of the stairs, their dripping hats in their hands. Their ponchos glistened in the lamp-light,
and from them ran little streams of water that gathered in globular pools, like quick-silver,
on the oiled floor.

Perkins, of course, had heard of the answer to the telegram, and had thought the matter closed;
but now these niggers had come to trouble him again. They came forward, trailing their streams
of water behind them. He heard them through. He answered them craftily, smiling behind his
hand, with the cunning born of the fog in his brain. Shortly they went away again, leaving
on the table a pile of silver. Cable the President! What a joke! and he chuckled aloud. He
would teach them to come and worry him with their foolishness.

Still the rain roared on the roof. Still he sat and drank, and drank again, until the lamp-light
grew sick and wan in the damp gray day.

The first sergeant, with the Morning Report, found Perkins seated in the same place. Perkins
signed the book in a sprawling scrawl, and the sergeant went his way. The Chino cook brought
the meals, and then came and took them off again. The day dragged through, the gray evening
fell; the rain streamed down; and still the officer sat as before.

At eight fifteen he looked up to find Wilson and Potter before him. There were the same glistening
ponchos, the same little streams of water, the same pools on the oiled floor. He himself sat
in the same place. The soldiers might have been gone ten minutes instead of twenty-four hours,
for all the change there was in the scene. Only the pile of silver had disappeared.

No, no answer to the cablegram had been received, and Perkins could hardly conceal his desire
to roar with laughter, as the two turned and trailed their streams of water back down the stairs.

At four o'clock he wobbled to the bed and threw himself down with all his clothes on. He awoke
at six, and, getting up uncertainly, went to the window and looked out. Still rain and murky
grayness everywhere. As he stood, the assembly went; for when a man is to be hanged, a little
thing like rain does not interfere. Perkins turned from the window quickly, and plunged his
head into a basin of cold water. Then, in spite of the early hour, he took a stiff "bracer,"
and throwing on his slicker, went out. At the foot of the stairs he found the orderly with
the horses, and, mounting with suspicious care, he rode to the stables.

The troop was in ranks and waiting. Before the roll was called, Sergeant Wilson, his face drawn
and wrinkled like old parchment, came forward and asked hesitatingly if there were any news
from Washington. The officer shook his head. The cords in the old negro's throat worked convulsively,
and he requested rather brokenly that he might be excused from this formation, and be allowed
to remain in charge of quarters.

"No," the Lieutenant replied thickly; "there is no reason why you should be excused any more
than any one else. The regular man will remain in charge of quarters." The whole troop heard,
as he intended they should. The "bracer" was getting in its work, and Perkins was feeling good
again. The wily schemes, the shapes and shadows of the previous night, were growing in his
brain once more. He would teach these niggers who was who.

And so they took Private Buff Wilson out into the falling rain and hanged him. In the center
of the square, formed by the squadron he had disgraced, he paid the price. The solemn hills,
shrouded in mist, looked down, sadly, impassively. They were not more motionless on their everlasting
foundations than was Sergeant Jeremiah Wilson, sitting his big bay like a granite statue, the
tragedy of the ages and of his race deep in the hollow sockets of his eyes. For is it not written:
"A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren"?

The signal was given. The trap fell with a bang; the spray flew from the snapping rope; and
Private Wilson was jerked unceremoniously into the presence of his Maker. Justice was satisfied,
and the account was balanced.

When a man is hanged, he must be buried. To bury a man it takes a detail in charge of a non-commissioned
officer. The non-commissioned officer is designated by name from the sergeant-major's office.
He is also chosen by roster in his proper order. It happened to be Sergeant Jeremiah Wilson's
turn for duty. Consequently Sergeant Jeremiah Wilson was told off to bury his own son.

There was no detachment, no ceremony, no firing squad--only an escort wagon containing a black
Q. M. coffin, upon which were perched four or five wet, disconsolate troopers armed with picks
and shovels. Old Jeremiah followed, mounted, a feverish light in his eyes and drops of moisture
standing on his grizzled mustache. So he went forth and saw them consign to earth the clod
that had been his son--or rather, consign to water, for the grave was half full when they reached
it. He did not see it, either; but he heard it.

He heard the splash as the casket was dropped into the half-filled grave. He heard the grating
of the bamboo poles used to hold it down until the earth could be placed upon it. He heard
the sucking and bubbling as the water forced its way in and the air forced its way out. He
heard the splash of the muddy clay until the heaviness of it seemed to descend upon his own
heart. The shapes and shadows struggled to and fro in his aching brain until they triumphed.
Sergeant Wilson, to the naked eye as sane as any man, was mad; mad as a hatter.

He went back to the quarters and to his old corner. There, as before, he sat hour after hour,
clasping and unclasping his hands. At times he startled all in hearing by throwing back his
head and laughing harshly. The men regarded him furtively and with uneasiness.

The dreary night, with its drearier unending rain, had dropped once more. Lieutenant Perkins
was seated in his old place. He had been there since the execution in the morning. This was
the longest session he had ever indulged in; but the moral fiber degenerates rapidly in the
tropics. Besides, the friendly rain had curtained him and kept away the spoil-sports. All day
he had sat communing with the shapes and shadows. And it was very pleasant. He had triumphed.

Lately, however, an unpleasant idea had been flitting elusively through his consciousness--a
something that marred the full measure of his achievement. Time and again he almost grasped
it, only to have it slip from him. What was it? What was it?

Ah, yes; he had it. They were, as yet, ignorant of how he had fooled them! They must know it
to make the joy complete. What sport to take their money back to them and tell them to their
faces what monkeys he had made of them! Why not do it now? Yes; what a brilliant idea! He would
do it at once.

Just before call to quarters Perkins staggered into the main squad room. The men stood to attention
and observed him with wonder. He was soaking wet, and the water was streaming down from his
uncovered hair. Without speaking, he walked to the end of the big nara-wood table in the center
of the room, and began to take silver coins from his bulging pockets. He clawed out handfuls
of them and planked them down in a pile; the smaller ones leaking through his fingers and falling
to the stone floor, where they rolled away with musical tinklings, or hid themselves in the
cracks. Finally, when he had succeeded, with laborious care, in extracting one last dime from
the depths of his pocket, he said thickly, waving his arms with an all-embracing oratorical
gesture:

"All you men come here." The troopers moved close, and formed on three sides of the table.
They stepped quietly, some hint of what was to be having come to them.

"Got somethin' to tell you. You think you are very smart, doncher? You think you--" he rubbed
his forehead reflectively and struggled for words. What was it he wanted to tell them? Oh,
yes; that was it. "You think you're smart, doncher?" and he leaned forward on the table, peering
around the circle; "but 'cher all damn fools. Me, I'm a smart man," and he indicated the center
button of his blouse with his thumb, drawing himself up haughtily.

"You thought I cabled to the President, din'cher?" he continued, leaning forward again, and
returning to his confidential tone. "Not on your life. See, there's the money. What a joke,"
and he burst into drunken hilarity, reeling from side to side, while the tears ran down his face.

The quiet in the room was absolute, except for the officer's unholy mirth, and the steady fall
of the rain. At the sound of that laughter, old Jeremiah, who had sat in his corner unmindful
of the officer's presence, got up and came forward to the opposite end of the table. There
was a dazed look in his face as though he were just waking from a deep sleep. He glanced around
at the other negroes, standing silently with wide eyes, then at the drunken officer, and finally
at the pile of silver. Then he knew. As soon as Perkins saw the old soldier, he chuckled with
renewed glee.

"Hallo, sergeant, you ole fool. The joke's on you. Yessir, the joke's on you. You thought I
cabled to the President; but I did'n'. Nosir, I did'n'." And he went off into renewed peals
of laughter.

Suddenly he stopped short. He saw that there was no appreciation of his witticisms; only a
blur of blank black faces and white, rolling eyes.

"Why don't you laugh, you damn apes? You damn black idiots, why don't you laugh? You----you----"

He ceased quickly, for another voice broke the silence. It was old Sergeant Wilson speaking.
No one could tell when he had begun. He stood slightly crouched, with his hands on the edge
of the table. His face was absolutely blank and expressionless, while his eyes were fixed on
the officer with a tense, glassy stare. His voice was cold and monotonous, without rise or
fall, halt or intonation, and seemed to be more the wail of the spirit rising from somewhere
deep within him than the voice of the flesh.

"You heah that, boys? You heah what he says? He calls us apes; us that God made as well as
him. 'Cause we ahr black he calls us apes. We ahr no better dan de dirt undah his feet. He
tooken ouh money an' fooled us, an' now he is laughin' 'cause he fooled us. He tooken ouh money
and lied to us. An' while he wuz a-foolin' us, us apes, dey taken mah boy, mah baby, out an'
killed him. Out in de rain. An' ah heered de trap fall, an' de rope snap. An' he heered it,
an' laughed when he heered it!"

As he spoke, the sergeant never took his eyes from the officer's face, and moved slowly around
the table, crouching a little, and creeping stealthily as a beast of prey might move upon an
animal that it was attempting to fascinate. And the officer was being fascinated. He stood
as though transfixed, his jaw hanging and his straining glance bent on the approaching soldier.

The body of troopers was getting restless. Their eyes, too, had taken on a peculiar shine,
and were all focused upon the white face of the officer.

The wail of that dead, monotonous voice was to these negroes as the call of the wild. It touched
a chord in them that antedated the deluge. They moved closer, imperceptibly, and moistened
their dry lips with their tongues. There is something mortally appalling in that simple action.
The dead voice continued: "An' dey sent me out to bury him, my own baby. An' he laughed when
ah went. Ah seen 'im laugh. An' dey tooken mah boy and put 'im in a deep black grave; an' de
col', col' watah wuz on 'im an' raoun' 'im, an' ah heerd it splash when dey put 'im thar. An'
he is thar now, in de col' black grave, an' de watah is on 'im, an' ah kin feel de watah; an'
de dirt is a-weighin' me down. Heah on my ches'. An' dis man is a-laughin' at us an' says hit
is a joke!"

The old sergeant was now within three feet of the officer. The latter was gray as putty, and
sober. It did not take the inclosing circle, the heavy breathing, the wild, staring eyes and
tight-drawn lips to tell him his danger. He felt the Presence. The air was pregnant with it.
He took a step backward and moved his stiff lips as though to speak; but there was no sound.
The voice went on:

"He laughed at us; but he won't laugh no moah. God done made 'im to look lak a man; but he
ain't no man. He is a snake an' creeps in de grass. God sez in his book dat all snakes mus'
be killed an'--" the sergeant took another step; the officer took a step backward, and the
crowd surged forward with a quick, hoarse gasp. Then the terror gripped him, and turning, the
officer made a dash for the door.

Again the circle closed in as the sea surges up upon the land. There were tossing arms; there
was the hissing of breath through clenched teeth, the sickening thud of blows, and a gurgling
cry of mortal agony. Then the sea surged out again, and there on the floor lay the thing that
had been Lieutenant Roger Williams Perkins.

The ring of negroes stood fast. Their shoulders rose and fell as their convulsive breaths were
indrawn and exhaled. They seemed to be wondering what had happened. Several raised their hands
and observed them curiously, first one and then the other, as though they were strange objects
never seen before. One placed his fingers to his nose and smelt them furtively. Another tried
to rub off the thick, dark stain, but with little success. The "moving finger" had written.

When the catastrophe occurred, five or ten of the weak-kneed had rushed from the building,
and even as these guilty ones stood there, there was a clatter of arms outside. Some one yelled:
"the guahd," and they knew that their deeds had overtaken them.

In the momentary pandemonium that followed, old Sergeant Wilson was heard calling above the
din: "Out with dem lights! Pile de bunks agin' de doahs an' winders!" They had learned to obey
that voice before, in many a tight place, and now it had its old-time ring. So they went and
did. A saber hilt rattled on the portal. "Open the door! This is the officer of the guard."

"To hell wiff de officah of de guahd. Open hit yo'se'f!" was bellowed in reply. The strain
was relieved, and the sally was greeted with a wild yapping from the rest, such as might have
risen from a den of trapped wolves. Several ran to the windows. There was a sputtering volley
of carbine shots, and Troop "B," 19th U.S. Cavalry, was in open mutiny.

Now when a troop of United States cavalry rises against those in authority, incidents begin
to occur at once. The times when such a thing has happened can be counted on the fingers of
one hand, with some digits to spare. There was, in this case, no room for parley or exchange
of flags of truce. The thing with which the ants were already busy there on the floor was an
uncontrovertible fact. Consequently, there being no grounds upon which to arbitrate the matter,
the mutineers blazed away cheerfully at anything that showed itself on the plaza. They had
now nothing to lose.

Then, shortly, there sounded from the guard-house, through the rain-drenched night, the call
that jerks the soldier out of his bunk, all standing, from any sleep but that of death: the
"call to arms."

In fifteen minutes "B" Troop's quarters were surrounded on all sides by the other troops of
the squadron, the men of which, from safe cover, observed the carbine flashes and wild yells
emanating therefrom with mild surprise, and wondered "what de hell had broke loose."

Major Bliss sat under the smoky lantern at the guard-house, surrounded by the officers of the
station. He questioned sharply the men who had escaped from "B" Troop's barracks. At intervals
he swore mightily and cursed the day that Roger Williams Perkins was born.

"And to think that old Wilson should be at the head of this! Old Wilson, of all men! Why, he
is worth fifty thousand Perkinses, dead or alive. I am only sorry that Perkins didn't get away.
I should like to have got hold of him myself, damn him."

There was no hesitation in the makeup of Major Bliss. He intended to suppress this outbreak
in a manner that would tend to discourage any such ebullitions in the future. Consequently,
he made his dispositions with grimness and determination. His plan was simple, his orders being
to "rush 'em and give 'em hell." His greatest regret was that the interests of discipline should
make such a step necessary, since he was sure that a majority of the mutineers had acted upon
impulse, and were already excessively sorry for themselves.

In the midst of these untoward events, the "Tarlac," coastwise transport blew into the bay
through the murk and rain, and Captain North, of "B" Troop, the "Ole Cap'n," returned to the
station. Hearing the shots and yells, he concluded that the Major was "shooting up the town,"
and splashed hurriedly to his quarters for his saber and revolver. There in the darkness he
stumbled over his muchacho, who had deposited himself at the foot of the steps and was earnestly
beseeching his patron saint to have him spared this once; promising an altar cloth and innumerable
candles if he should be allowed to exist long enough to secure them, thus putting on that gentleman's
intercession a premium that he trusted would be effective. The Captain being naturally impulsive,
the accident did not improve his temper to any appreciable extent. Besides this, the matches
were wet, and there was no oil in the lamp. Consequently he had to search for his weapons in
the dark. After falling over his bunk and numberless chairs, and upsetting his field desk,
he found his saber and revolver, only to discover that both, owing to the neglect of that same
sanctified muchacho on the stairs, were covered with rust; that the cylinder of the revolver
would not revolve; and that at least two strong men and a boy would be required to coax the
saber from its scabbard!

All this while the shooting and yelling were going on, and by the time he splashed out into
the rain once more, the good Captain was what is technically known as "mad as a hornet!" He
started on a run to "B" Troop's quarters, to take command of his men, only to be stopped by
a sentinel, who informed him that "B" Troop was in no mood to be taken command of, and that
he had "bettah go to de guahd-house." Being ordered to the guard-house by a private did not
tend to quiet his state of mind any, even when the situation was explained. By the time he
burst in on the assembled officers at the post of the guard, Captain North was madder than ever.

"What the devil is going on here, Bliss? What's this I hear about 'B' Troop's busting loose?
This is a hell of a state of affairs."

"That is just what I think, North, and very neatly expressed," the Major replied dryly. "Lovely
discipline you have in that band of Indians of yours. They've mutinied, no less, and apparently
they have got Perkins. A nice----"

"Mutinied, have they? Why, the infernal black scoundrels," almost roared the irate officer,
striding up and down the room. "Mutinied, have they? What the devil do they mean by doing a
thing like that without saying anything to me about it? I'll mutiny 'em! Don't you interfere
with me, Bliss," he continued, halting in his walk, "don't you interfere with me. This is my
troop, and I can handle them. Don't you interfere with me."

"My dear North, no one has shown any inclination to interfere with you, has he?"

"That's right," and the Captain continued his march, "that's right. I can attend to these gentlemen.
This plan of rushing them, though, is all wrong, all wrong"; and he stopped again. "They'll
fight, fight like the devil. I ought to know. I've seen them do it often enough. You'll lose
good men. In opposing them with force you recognize the strength in them. What you need is
moral force. One man power. Same principle in training lions. Same principle. If a lion-tamer
went into a cage of ten lions with ten men, he'd have trouble on his hands from the jump; but
he can go alone and bluff 'em. Same principle here. If I could get into the middle of that
bunch over there without their seeing me until I was there, I'd scare them out of ten years'
growth. How to get there, that's the question."

"Why, North, you are crazy. They'd get you, sure. They'd eat you up, man."

"Eat me up? Why, they'd as soon think of tackling the late Mr. Peter Jackson. They know me.
How to get there, that's the question. Walking across the plaza they couldn't tell me from
any one else."

"Beg yoah pahdin', sah," and Private Massay of "B" Troop, who was the commanding officer's
orderly for the day, spoke up, "Ef de Cap'n could git in through de little doah in de stoah-room,
and go through de kitchen, I speck he could git in widout bein' ketched."

"Right, Massay, the very thing. Somebody give me a lantern. Confound it, one of you men get
me a lantern, and be quick about it." A member of the guard gave him the required article,
and concealing it carefully under his poncho, he went quickly out. The Major and other officers
jumped up and followed. All the way down the dreary, rain-swept street the Major attempted
to persuade the Captain to give up his foolhardy enterprise, but without result. Finally, when
they reached the cordon of surrounding troops, the senior officer said:

"Well, North, this is absolutely absurd, and out of the question. If you insist, I shall have
to give you an order not to go."

"No, you won't do that, Bliss." The Captain's anger had left him now, and he spoke quietly.
"We have known each other a long time, and seen a lot of service together. You won't take advantage
of your rank to stop me now. I am only doing what you would do in my place. It is my troop.
The shame and disgrace are mine. You won't stop me now."

The Major hesitated a moment and then spoke slowly, and with evident feeling:

"Well--well. Have your way; but be careful, John, be careful."

They saw him move quietly along under the shadow of a wall, cross the street, and disappear
in a small side door of "B" Troop's quarters. He was not discovered.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the last half hour the silence and the blackness of the grave had existed in "B" Troop's
big squad room. The "shouting and the tumult" had died a lingering death. One cannot yell and
hurl challenge indefinitely, and shouting up one's courage begins to lose its efficacy if long
continued. One big-lunged mutineer had held out with his firing and bellowing until the nerves
of the rest could stand it no longer. They then rudely suppressed him. He sounded so absurdly
and pathetically foolish. He was typical of their own status. "One nigger shootin' a bluff
at de whole United States Army!" They realized that with fifty it was no less idiotic.

If it had not been for old Wilson passing stealthily to and fro among them, with that wild
light in his eyes, and those crazy mumblings, doubtless there would have, already, been breaks
in the ranks. But no; there was that other thing, lying over there where it fell. There was
no use now; there could be no looking back. Each turned wearily to his door or window and renewed
his wide-eyed effort to pierce the web of blackness over the square. And the everlasting rain
still fell.

A door swung cautiously somewhere. There was the sound of some one moving with steady, determined
step down the center of the room. Then, without warning, their unaccustomed eyes were momentarily
blinded by a light taken suddenly from under a poncho; and there in the center of the room
stood a lone officer; in one hand a lantern, in the other a big blue revolver.

For an instant there was no movement. Then there was a counter reaction. With the snarl of
wild animals, the fifty negroes sprang toward the center of the room. Sergeant Wilson was first.
With a cry of: "Kill him! kill him!" he bounded over a bunk, and landed within three feet of
the officer, revolver upraised. As he did so, the officer lifted the lantern to a level with
his own face. The sergeant stopped. The whole circle halted, as though Circe had transfixed
them. They had recognized the "Ole Cap'n."

"Well, Wilson." At the sound of the voice the old negro's countenance changed instantly. It
became the face of a man in mortal anguish, as indeed he was. In that moment the scales had
fallen from his vision. He saw his position clearly in the light of the sorrowful glance from
the "ole Cap'n's" eyes. It was as though the main pillar of the heavens had been pulled out,
and the skies were thundering down about his dazed old ears.

"Oh, Gawd, oh, Gawd!" he groaned, putting one hand to his head, and rocking it from side to
side, as though the pain there were more than he could stand.

"Oh, Gawd, oh, Gawd." The revolver was lowered slowly from its upraised position, and suddenly,
before the officer could stop him, the sergeant turned it against himself. There was a flash,
an earsplitting report, and the old soldier sank to the floor. There he stretched himself wearily,
as though for a long sleep, and Sergeant Jeremiah Wilson, of the "old Army," was gathered to
his fathers.

The Captain turned away abruptly. He knew that old Wilson was a good shot.

"Open the doors," he said to the troopers, as though he had been telling them good morning.
Compliance to that voice, raised in command, was to these soldiers a second nature. There was
not the slightest hesitation. With eager alacrity they hastened to obey, like children who
had been caught misbehaving.

In the first faintness of the dawn the tired-faced troopers cheerfully filed out and formed
in front of the quarters, each one, as he passed through the door, depositing his arms at the
officer's feet. Oh, but it was good to be on the right side again; and the "ole Cap'n" would
take care of his own.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] Art. 17. Any soldier who sells, or through neglect loses or spoils his horse, arms, clothing,
or accoutrements, shall be punished as a court martial may adjudge, subject to such humiliations
as may be prescribed by the President, by virtue of the power vested in him.

THE SINGER'S HEART

BY

HARRIS MERTON LYON

ILLUSTRATIONS BY J. B. MASTERS

    "I never cared for the singer's fame,
    But, oh, for the singer's heart
        Once more--
    The bleeding, passionate heart!"--"B. V."

These are a few films from the human biograph of Harry Barnes, old actor. You know, when you
are old, you accept life with more or less of a sigh of quiet acquiescence, and by your cozy
fire you sit and nod to an inner voice, a gentle old voice which over and over whispers and
murmurs--"Once upon a time, once upon a time." And possibly Barnes would have nodded, too,
but he lacked the cozy fire. Life has its dramatic unities, it would seem, and if one thing
or another is awry we are apt not to perform as the book says we should. No cozy fire, says
the Great Stage Manager; no nodding acquiescence, replies the Mummer in the Play.

Barnes listened, it is true, over and over to the voice which murmured "Once upon a time,"
but he sat not by a comfortable open grate, amid grandchildren. Instead, he lurked in East
Fourteenth Street amid decaying agents' offices, hunting a chance to do a bad monologue in
a worse vaudeville show. He had outlasted his time; he could not get work. He lived on those
two heartless things, Hope and Memory. And for all I know he is living on them yet.

Now, you will not in your careless youth or your sceptical maturity find beauty in this story,
you will not "get under the skin" of it, as the saying is, unless you have stopped sometime
in your busy going, to consider, aside and with understanding, the pathos of the old actor.
It is a curiously poignant human thing, written about by a few, suffered by many, and ignored
by the loud, inordinate world.

The old actor out of employment! A target for jokes, a piece of battered, ancient "property"
cluttering up a new and very busy stage. You smile at his curious figure, unconscious of the
broken misery that aches beneath, where life has died and living goes paradoxically on; and
only sometimes late at night do you get a part of that hidden ache when you hear old legs drag
weary feet up the boarding-house stairs, past your door and on up into the skylight room on
the roof, despondently to bed; and you know that the old man has had another unsuccessful day
among the agents and the managers. You can sometimes interpret the querulous little laugh over
the thin oatmeal at breakfast, sometimes you can guess the water in the rapidly winking eyes;
but of course you do not proclaim your deductions. Civilization is a process of making less
noise about things.

This is a segment of the life-film of Harry Barnes, old actor, as he traveled the stones of
Fourteenth Street. Not the Rialto, where fat men adorned with fat diamonds smoke fat cigars
in order to narcotize fat consciences; but Fourteenth Street, grimy with old, sparsely-tenanted
buildings, where theatrical offices three flights up bargain for the driblets of trade among
the low music-halls and the cheapest vaudeville houses, where niggardly, gray-haired agents
have for two generations sat among their dusty contracts and their rusty pens, haggling over
bread-and-water salaries with the jetsam of a too-volatile profession.

Harry was old and dropsical with drink, a sad hero for a careless story. The only ideal he
had ever had, besides one, was to arrive at the fine fame of printer's ink: headlines, bill-boards,
critical notices, reproductions of his photograph. But this was long ago. He had longed to
be chronicled in his time, preëminent and large; this he had desired with that hungry passion
for display which only an actor can feel. But this, remember, was once upon a time. His other
ideal--no need to mention it amid Momus and his mimes!--was to sway people with laughter and
tears, to burn them with romance, to chasten them with tragedy, to carry them with him in his
frenzy, to play upon them with his art.

Art! Do you care for a grotesque, serious evening in its humblest presence? Have you time to
listen, over beer glass and cigarette, to a broken-down old actor out of a job?

Barnes was incongruously named when he was given the name of Harry. It is a flippant name.
It calls up merriness, youth, bravado, color, song. Barnes was forty-nine, streaked with grey,
heart-sick, pallid, shuffling, timorous, sorry, and forlorn. Three decades of grease paint
had made his skin flabby; and three decades of what the grease paint stood for had done likewise
by his soul. It was thus that he drifted from doorway to doorway in Fourteenth Street, down
by the Elevated, where dry little agents told him in dry little voices that there was nothing
for him from day to day. It was thus that he dragged his feet up the boarding-house stairs
to his skylight room, night after night, carrying the two heartless fardels, Hope and Memory.

It was approaching a certain holiday, a holiday which came on Sunday.

"Harry," said old Tony Sanderson, after he had finished informing the actor that there was
no news for him, "why don't you do a little press-agent work for yourself? Get your name in
the paper. That might help you get something to do."

The other listened despondently.

"Now here's a chance," went on the agent, in a confidential tone. "No money in it, of course,
but, as I said, there's a chance to get into print. Some sort of a newsboys' benefit bunch
is going to get together Sunday night and give a little entertainment fer the kids up in Beals'
gymnasium on the Bowery. They're callin' for volunteers among the actors. You take your monologue
stunt down there and get onto the program. The newspapers always plays up this newsboy dope
strong and you'll get a good mention sure. Clip the notices and then you've got somethin' to
flash. See?"

Barnes stood uneasily by the desk. "I--I don't know, Tony," he answered. "To tell yuh the truth,
I'd be a little bit scared to try it. Yuh see, I--well, if you wasn't an old friend of mine,
I couldn't say it--but, confidentially, Tony, I--I've kind o' lost my grip. I'm a--a back number,
Tony. I'm afraid o' them kids; they're too wise. My old act wouldn't go." He waited, awkwardly;
then, as if he hoped he were wrong, he asked: "Would it?"

Sanderson snapped his grim eyes. "What're yuh tryin' to put it on fer, at all, then--if yuh
think it won't take with a gang of kids at a free doin's?" Then his tone softened. "Look here,
Harry. It'll only be ten or twenty minutes. Go ahead. You'll get through all right. You ain't
as much of a dead one as you think you are."

Barnes straightened up. It was all right for him to make a slight confession, but Sanderson
had wounded his professional vanity. "A dead one!" he exclaimed. "Certainly not. Harry Barnes
a dead one! After a thirty years' career in the companies of the best----"

The agent shoved a card in his hand and cut him off short. "Go around there and tell 'em to
put you down for a monologue." And Harry went, with dignity and misgivings.

His misgivings were all the more increased when he saw the list of promised performers: La
Belle Marie, the famous little toe dancer in her attractive transformations; the Brothers Zincatello,
Risley experts at the Hippodrome; Julian Jokes, "in his inimitable Hebrew monologue"; the Seven
Sebastians, the world's most marvelous Herculean acrobatic performers; Mlle. Joujou, the popular
singing comedienne, Prima Donna and Star, direct from her unusual and most distinguished triumph
at the Palace Theater, London; and a dozen more of the younger and more popular people of the
stage, all adorned, with adjectives and hyperbole. Down at the bottom of the list with a trembling
pencil he wrote: "Harry Barnes, Singing and Talking." Then he shook hands with the secretary
of the organization and walked back to his boarding-house in a mild fever of excitement.

In his room he went eagerly about his work. He rehearsed again and again his meager little
bag of tricks, his funny Irishman, his Chinaman--no, the Chinaman came first, because he used
the queue afterward to wrap around his chin and simulate Irish "galloways"--his Dutch comedian
monologue about married life, his old-time songs and dances. He furbished up some old "patter"
and injected new anecdotes. And this he kept up morning and evening until the notable Sunday came.

He was so nervous, this old actor of a thousand parts, that he could eat no supper that night.
He almost trotted to the gymnasium in his excitement, and, though his pockets bulged with grease
paint, mustaches, wigs, and other paraphernalia, he forgot almost half of his material. At
the door he had to push his way through a wriggling, impish mass of small boys who blocked
the steps and the sidewalk. Inside the hall, young faces packed the place to the window-sills.
To the old man the newsboys seemed as so many antagonistic bits of the younger generation,
the generation which evidently would have none of him, which relegated him carelessly to the
warehouse for old scenery and old settings.

He stood in dismay behind an extemporized "wing" and peered out at the restless little bodies.
He fancied already that he could see grins on their sophisticated faces, ridicule in their
eyes; he remembered once hearing a gallery god shout "Twenty-three!" in the middle of an actor's
monologue, and what had then seemed humorous precocity now seemed hard, bitter cruelty. He
fumbled at his make-up in his pockets, shuffled uneasily, and waited.

It was almost time to begin. Where were the other actors who had promised to come? The boys
out front were whistling, kicking their feet upon the floor, clapping their hands, and shouting
to one another. A distracted official raced here and there among other officials, asking some
sort of exasperated question. Barnes could not hear what it was; but telepathically he felt
that there was a hitch in the program.

At last, after waiting a quarter of an hour, the manager stepped forward and said:

"Boys, we had arranged a fine program for you to-night----"

"Good fer you!" yelled a voice.

The speaker held up his hand. "But it seems that actors are better promisers than they are
actors." He smiled at his own joke, but the audience gave one long "Aw-w-w!"

"However," he continued, "we are all here now and we intend to do the best we can. If we make
up our mind to, we can have a bully good time just the same. We have with us at least one kind
gentleman who appreciates what a celebration like this means to the boys." ... Barnes heard
and saw things as if through a fog. The arms of the speaker were gyrating and a voice shouted
in the ear of the old actor: "What's your name?"

"Harry Barnes," he said, moistening his lips. Nobody had shown up except him, he kept thinking
over and over to himself: nobody except him. He had the thankless job of "opening the show."

"... Harry Barnes," echoed the speaker at the end of some sort of practical talk concerning
the newsboys' organization and its management. "Mister Harry Barnes"--he squinted at the program--"in
singing and talking."

He turned and smiled at the old man, and to Barnes the smile seemed diabolical. Somebody clapped
him on the back. There was a hurricane of whistles and shouts, and before he knew it he was
in the middle of the rostrum.

Mechanically he had made his old comic entrance, tripping his right toe over his left heel,
and turning to shake his fist at an imaginary enemy. The boys, determined to be pleased, giggled
appreciatively.

"How--how are you, boys?" Barnes asked, seriously.

The audience snickered with delight. He was such a funny-looking old man!

"I hope you'll like my work," he went on, desperately, "or else we might as well go home. I
guess I'm the whole show, for a little while, at least, as the feller said when he fell out
o' the balloon." The house roared with approval.

"Go wan, Barnesy," shouted a young pair of lungs in the front row.

He straightened up, turned his back for a moment, stuck a queer set of mustaches on his upper
lip, faced the crowd again, and began: "I was walkin' down the street the other day when my
friend J. Pierpoint Morgan stepped up to me an' says, 'Barney, my boy'"....

The show had begun. Harry Barnes, singing and talking, had opened his carefully rehearsed bag
of tricks.

There is some peculiar psychology about humor. If people make up their minds that they are
going to laugh and that a performance is bound to be funny, nothing on earth can keep them
from enjoying themselves. The most serious remark will be greeted with howls of approval; the
most ancient joke takes on a novel and present sprightliness. In the slang of the stage, Barnes'
line of patter took.

Four hundred boys simpered, smirked, grinned, giggled, tittered, chuckled, and guffawed. A
wine of merriment flushed the crowd and mounted to the old mummer's brain and heart. He skipped
and danced and sang; he went through all the drollery and tomfoolery, all the old comic business
he could recall.

The children nudged each other, dug their fists into each other, and cheered: "Oh, you Barnesy!"
"Kill it, Kid!" "Whatcha know about dat!" "Sand it down, Barnesy!" The old-timer was doing
the famous lock-step jig he had done with Pat Rooney in "Patrice" fifteen or twenty years before.
It was so old that it was new. Encore followed encore. The perspiration cascaded through his
pores; he grinned and winked and frisked and capered. They would not let him stop. At the end
of twenty-five minutes he bowed himself off the stage, and still they called him back. When
he gave them, for the "call," the Little Johnny Dugan pantomime from "The Rainmakers," the
East Side children, born since the day of such things, were suffocated with delight.

    What did Dugan do to him?
    --They say he was untrue to him.
    Did Dugan owe him money?
    --No; he stole McCarthy's wife!
    Who? Little Johnny Dugan?

sang Barnes with a quizzical flirt of his head; and lungs that were wont to fill the city streets
with news could not even gasp for laughter.

The secretary of the organization followed with a speech about future entertainments; another
official read a letter from a prominent financier promising the boys a swimming-pool and a
half dozen summer excursions.

"Somebody bang de box!" suggested a voice, after a pause.

Nobody could--except Barnes; and he volunteered. The whole affair was now like one big family
circle, each one secure in the amity of the other, and when the old man sat down at the cracked
piano, he sang as if he were singing to himself, easily and without restraint. A quiet held
the house, and even the children were touched; for Harry Barnes was quavering through the simple
lines of "Should Auld Acquaintance Be Forgot." After that he gave them the Lullaby Song from
"Erminie," and somehow it did not at all appear incongruous that a careworn mimic of fifty
should be singing to careworn workingmen of ten, down on the Bowery, in a gymnasium, a verse
about pretty little eyelids and sleeping darlings. The world, fortunately, is not always with
us; and the song ended in a silent applause.

For two hours the entertainment went on, speeches and official plans interspersed with the
antics of Barnes.

Was there anything he could not do? He mimicked birds and animals; he imitated a wheezy phonograph
playing "When We Were a Couple of Kids"; he recited "The Raven" and "Paul Revere's Ride"; he
gave a cutting from Dickens and one from Sheridan Knowles; he showed how Joe Jefferson played
Rip Van Winkle, how Sol Smith Russell did "A Poor Relation."

And all through his soul and body, as he watched his haphazard audience follow him in his moods
and changes, ran the quiet magic of Art Satisfied. It is a noble braggart madness, this glorification
of a cheap art by an old actor.

"Barnes, my boy," he said to himself, with a glow of rapid blood, "you have not lost them yet!
See them laugh with you! Feel them cry! What does it matter if you eat watery oatmeal and live
in a skylight room; are you not an artist, a resonant instrument of poetry and music and mirth,
a true actor of the best parts? You are; and these are matters of the undying soul. A boarding-house
is a vulgar, temporal thing. You were right to come here to-night, and do this thing without
pay, for Art's sake. You uphold the honor of a calling which is founded upon Art. And, oh,
most of all, you have not lost your power, you have not outlived your time! Sanderson intimated
that you were a dead one--very well, to-morrow you shall triumphantly cut the acquaintance
of Sanderson! To have lived until this evening before the youth of this land; to have caught
the right intonation, the proper gesture; to have swept through the hearts of your hearers
like a vibration of music--this is to have transcended, this is to have justified yourself!
And justified yourself to whom? To Sanderson? To the world? No! You have justified Harry Barnes
to Harry Barnes! You carry this human throng over the footlights and into your soul with a
Chinaman's queue and a putty nose. Your Art is still that fine, secure Art which you have carried
in your memory as you traversed dingy stairways on Fourteenth Street. Barnes, you live, you
act, you accomplish! Bravo!"

He shook hands abstractedly all around when the affair came to a close. He remembered bundling
his make-up and trinkets into a piece of newspaper and tucking it under his arm. A pleased
face presented itself at one time before his eyes and a voice said, confidentially, "Mr. Barnes,
I congratulate you; and the dramatic critic of the Star was here to-night."

He found himself at last out in the cool darkness of the street, and he had to stop a moment
to think which way his boarding-house lay. Then he walked home, to save carfare. All the way
up the silent streets his brain sang with triumph. His blood jumped in gladness; he could hardly
keep from running. He declaimed aloud bits of Shakespeare, tag ends of poems; he snapped his
fingers and flung out his arms in sheer excess of enthusiasm. He smiled, threw back his head,
even made faces at the passersby. He boomed into a solo from an opera, and kicked his foot
at a cigar stub on the sidewalk. And had anybody wished to observe when he reached his house,
the spectacle would have presented itself of a caricature, funny-paper barn-stormer tramping
merrily up the rattling stairs and humming, "The flowers that bloom in the spring, tra-la,
have nothing to do with the case."

All the next day he did not leave his room, save at meal times; for he wished to be alone and
hug his exultation. To the four flat walls he repeated snatches of the things he had done the
night before; up and down the rag carpet he smirked and grimaced and laughed and jigged. He
sang the songs that had "taken" so well. He went through certain gestures and then deliberately
exaggerated them, in a high good-humor. He was as young again as on the day when he had signed
his first contract. He puffed out his chest, looked at himself in the glass with mock seriousness,
and then, when the pent-up good feeling burst out in his merry eye, he winked it gleefully
and said: "Oh, you divvil, you! You old blatherskiting divvil!"

At half-past four he went down to the corner and bought a copy of the Star, the late edition
which had the dramatic news in it.

There it was! He felt like jumping up in the air and whooping the length of the street. On
the editorial page it was. His name was in the headlines! Beneath, in the article itself, almost
every other word seemed to be Barnes. It praised him here, it admired him there, it thanked
him, it congratulated him, it asserted that he had saved the night for four hundred newsboys.
He was so anxious to read it through and to read it fast that he skipped from paragraph to
paragraph. There was over a column of it! He hurried back up to the room; and then regretted
that he had not stopped to buy more copies of the paper. He locked the door and spread the
paper out on the little center-table. His heart and breath almost stopped as he read the good
words slowly through. When he had finished, he threw the paper aside and bounded into the middle
of the room.

"Press agent, hey?" he laughed. "Press agent! I guess yes! A small matter of a column and a
quarter; that's all. Only a column and a quarter about Harry Barnes! Wonder what Sanderson
will think about that? Wonder if he won't get me something to do? Oh, no; I guess not. A column
and a quarter!"

He sat down again and smoothed out the paper before him. This time he began noticing little
niceties of the critic's phrasing ... "entertaining, not to say pathetic rendition," etc.,
etc.... "Not to say?" Funny; look at it a moment, and it seems to mean it wasn't pathetic.
But here it said: "Infectious and heart-tickling old-time Irish humor" ... "excellent characterization
of Uriah Heep" ... and so on.

After a few minutes he ceased reading and sat, picking at the edge of the paper, staring into
the blankness of the little room. He stayed thus immovable for a long, long time, and then
slowly the tears slipped across his cheeks, down on the forgotten "notice," his throat ached
with a tender sobbing, and he bowed his head into the newspaper.

He was thinking of the children; he had made them laugh and cry. And this was the thrill, once
more, of the singer's heart.

ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOGRAPHS

In consequence of the threatening situation which the President's reactionary policy had precipitated,
the belief grew stronger and stronger in the Northern country that the predominance of the
Republican party was--and would be for a few years, at least--necessary for the safety and
the honor of the Republic; and steps taken to insure that predominance, even such as would
have in less critical times evoked strong criticism, were now looked upon with seductive leniency
of judgment. Mr. Stockton of New Jersey was unseated in the Senate upon grounds which would
hardly pass muster in ordinary times, to make room for a Republican successor, and even Mr.
Fessenden approved the transaction. Advantage was taken in the same body of the sickness or
casual absence of some Democratic senator to rush through a vote when a two-thirds majority
was required to kill a veto; and other proceedings were resorted to at a pinch which were hardly
compatible with the famous "courtesy of the Senate." But there was more thorough and lasting
work to be done to prepare for the full restoration of the States lately in rebellion. The
Republican majority was by no means of one mind as to the constitutional status of the communities
that had been in insurrection against the National Government. I have already spoken of the
theory of State-suicide advanced by Mr. Stevens and a comparatively small school of extremists.
The theory most popular with most of the Republicans, which was finally formulated by the Joint
Committee on Reconstruction, was that the rebel States had not been out of the Union, but had
lost their working status inside of the Union, and had to be restored to their regular constitutional
relations to the Union by action of Congress, upon such conditions as Congress might deem proper.

To meet the dangers which so far had become visible on the horizon, the Joint Committee on
Reconstruction devised the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which was long and laboriously
debated in both Houses.

The Fourteenth Amendment

Thus the Fourteenth Amendment stopped short of the extension of the suffrage to negroes--a
subject which many Republicans were still afraid to touch directly. But by implication it punished
the States denying that extension by reducing the basis of representation; it excluded from
office, unless relieved of the disability by a two-thirds vote of Congress, the most influential
class of those who had taken an active part in the rebellion; and it safeguarded the public
debt. With only one of its provisions serious fault could be found;--not with that which guaranteed
to the freedmen the essential civil rights of free men, nor with that which excluded the freedmen
from the basis of representation--so long as they were not permitted to vote. Only the advocates
of negro suffrage might logically have objected to this clause; inasmuch as it by implication
recognized the right of a State to exclude the colored people from the suffrage if the State
paid a certain penalty for such exclusion. Neither could the clause safeguarding the public
debt and prohibiting the payment of debts incurred in aid of the rebellion be objected to.
The really exceptionable provision was that which excluded so large a class of Southern men
from public office, and just that class with which a friendly understanding was most desirable.
The provision that their disqualification could be removed by a two-thirds vote in each House
of Congress mended the mischief thus done a little, but not enough for the public good.

It was not expressly enacted, but it was generally understood, that those of the States lately
in rebellion, which ratified the Fourteenth Amendment, would thereby qualify themselves for
full restoration in the Union. Tennessee, where a faction of the Union party hostile to President
Johnson had gained the ascendency, did so, and was accordingly fully restored by the admission
to their seats in Congress of its Senators and Representatives. The full restoration of the
other late rebel States would probably have been expedited in the same way, had they followed
the example of Tennessee. But President Johnson, as became publicly known in one or two instances,
obstinately dissuaded them from doing so, and the fight went on. He also vetoed a second Freedmen's
Bureau bill in which some of the provisions he had objected to in his veto of the first were
remedied. But things had now come to such a pass between Congress and the President that his
veto messages were hardly considered worth listening to, but were promptly overruled almost
without debate by two-thirds votes in each House.

A Campaign to Destroy a President

Under such circumstances the Congressional election of 1866 came on. The people were to pronounce
judgment between the President and Congress. The great quarrel had created excitement so intense
as to affect men's balance of mind. About the time of the assembling of Congress Mr. Preston
King of New York (the same rotund gentleman with whom, in the National Convention of 1860,
I conducted Mr. Ashmun to the chair), who had been a Senator of the United States and had been
appointed Collector of Customs by President Johnson, committed suicide by jumping into the
North River from a ferry-boat. He had been a Republican of the radical type, and when he took
the office he supposed the President to be of the same mind; but Mr. Johnson's course distressed
him so much that he became melancholy; his brain gave way, and he sought relief in death. Another
suicide which greatly startled the country a few months later, that of Senator Lane of Kansas,
was attributed to a similar cause. "Jim" Lane had been one of the most famous free-State fighters
in Kansas Territory. Since then he was ranked among the extreme anti-slavery men and as a Senator
he was counted upon as a firm opponent of President Johnson's policy. To the astonishment of
everybody he voted against the Civil Rights bill. This somewhat mysterious change of front,
which nobody seemed able satisfactorily to explain, cost him his confidential intercourse with
his former associates in the Senate, and brought upon him stinging manifestations of disapproval
from his constituents. He was reported to have expressed profound repentance of what he had
done and finally made away with himself as one lost to hope. He was still in the full vigor
of manhood--only fifty-one years old--when he sought the grave.

The campaign of 1866 was remarkable for its heat and bitterness. In canvasses carried on for
the purpose of electing a President, I had seen more enthusiasm, but in none so much animosity
and bad blood as in this, an incidental object of which was politically to destroy a president.
Andrew Johnson had not only manifested a disposition to lean upon the Democratic party in the
pursuit of his policy, but he had also begun to dismiss public officers who refused to coöperate
with him politically and to put in their places men who adhered to him. This touched partisan
spirit in an exceedingly sensitive spot. The so-called "bread-and-butter brigade" was looked
down upon with a contempt that could hardly be expressed in words.

Killing of Negroes at Memphis and New Orleans

But there were more serious things to inflame the temper of the North. The Southern whites
again proved themselves their own worst enemies. Early in May news came from Memphis of riots
in which twenty-four negroes were killed and one white man was wounded. The conclusion lay
near and was generally accepted that the whites had been the aggressors and the negroes the
victims. In the last days of July more portentous tidings arrived from New Orleans. An attempt
was made by Union men to revive the constitutional convention of 1864 for the purpose of remodeling
the constitution of the State. The attempt was of questionable legality, but, if wrong, it
could easily have been foiled by legal and peaceable means. The municipal government of New
Orleans was in possession of the ex-Confederates. It resolved that the meeting of the remnant
of the convention should not be held. When it did meet, the police, consisting in an overwhelming
majority of ex-Confederate soldiers, aided by a white mob, broke into the hall and fired upon
those assembled there. The result was thirty-seven negroes killed and one hundred and nineteen
wounded, and three of the white Union men killed and seventeen wounded, against one of the
assailants killed and ten wounded. General Sheridan, the commander of the Department, telegraphed
to General Grant: "It was no riot; it was an absolute massacre by the police which was not
excelled in murderous cruelty by that of Fort Pillow. It was a murder which the Mayor and the
police of this city perpetrated without the shadow of necessity." A tremor of horror and rage
ran over the North. People asked one another: "Does this mean that the rebellion is to begin
again?" I heard the question often.

The Administration felt the blow, and to neutralize its effects a national convention of its
adherents, North and South, planned by Thurlow Weed and Secretary Seward, was to serve as the
principal means. This "National Union Convention" met in Philadelphia on August 14th. It was
respectably attended in point of character as well as of numbers. It opened its proceedings
with a spectacular performance which under different conditions might have struck the popular
imagination favorably. The delegates marched into the Convention Hall in pairs, one from the
South arm in arm with one from the North, Massachusetts and South Carolina leading. But with
the Memphis riot and the New Orleans "massacre" and Andrew Johnson's sinister figure in the
background, the theatrical exhibition of restored fraternal feeling, although calling forth
much cheering on the spot, fell flat, and even became the subject of ridicule, since it earned
for the meeting the derisive nickname of the "arm-in-arm convention." The proceedings were
rather dull, and much was made by the Republicans of the fact that the Chairman, Senator Doolittle
from Wisconsin, was careful not to let Southern members say much lest they say too much. It
was also noticed and made much of that among the members of the convention the number of men
supposed to curry favor with the Administration for the purpose of getting office--men belonging
to the "bread-and-butter-brigade"--was conspicuously large. Among the resolutions passed by
the convention was one declaring slavery abolished and the emancipated negro entitled to equal
protection in every right of person and property, and another heartily endorsing President
Johnson's reconstruction policy.

No doubt many of the respectable and patriotic men who attended that convention thought they
had done very valuable work for the general pacification by getting their Southern friends
publicly to affirm that slavery was dead never to be revived, and that the civil rights of
the freedmen were entitled to equal protection and would have it. But the effect of such declarations
upon the popular mind at the North was not as great as had been expected. Such affirmations
by respectable Southern gentlemen, who were perfectly sincere, had been heard before. In fact,
almost everybody in the South was ready to declare himself likewise, and with equal sincerity,
as to the abolition of the old form of chattel slavery. But the question of far superior importance
was, what he would put in the place of the old form of chattel slavery. There was the rub,
and this had come to be well understood at the North in the light of the reports from the South,
which the advocates of President Johnson's policy could not deny nor obscure. The moral effect
of the National Union Convention was therefore very feeble.

Johnson "Swings Around the Circle"

If the members of the National Union Convention thought that their conciliatory utterances
would pour oil on the angry waves of the campaign, they reckoned without their host. When a
committee appointed for that purpose presented to President Johnson a copy of its proceedings,
there was rather a note of defiance to his opponents, than of conciliation, in his response.
Here was again the thinly veiled threat that, because certain States were not represented in
it, the validity of the acts of Congress might be attacked. But worse was to follow. It is
a well-known fact that presidents, under the influence of the Washington atmosphere, are apt
to become victims of the delusion that they are idolized by the American people. Even John
Tyler is said to have thought so. It may have been under a similar impression that President
Johnson, who had great confidence in the power of his influence over the masses when he personally
confronted them, accepted an invitation requesting his presence at the unveiling of a Douglas
statue in Chicago, and he made this an occasion for a "presidential progress" through some
of the States. He started late in August. Several members of his cabinet, Seward among others,
accompanied him, and so did General Grant and Admiral Farragut, by command, to give additional
luster to the appearance of the chief.

His journey, the famous "swinging around the circle,"--a favorite phrase of his to describe
his fight against the Southern enemies of the Union, the Secessionists, at one time, and against
the Northern disunionists, the radical Republicans, at another--was a series of the most disastrous
exhibitions. At Philadelphia he was received with studied coldness. At New York he had an official
reception, and he used the occasion to rehearse his often-told story of his wonderful advancement
from the position of alderman in his native town to the presidency of the United States, with
some insignificant remarks about his policy attached. At Cleveland he appeared before a large
audience, according to abundant testimony, in a drunken condition. Indeed, the character of
his speech cannot be explained in any other way. He descended to the lowest tone of partizan
stump speaking. He bandied epithets with some of his hearers who interrupted him. The whole
speech was a mixture of inane drivel and reckless aspersion. His visit at Chicago passed without
any particular scandal. But the speech he made at St. Louis fairly capped the climax. He accused
the Republicans in Congress of substantially having planned the New Orleans massacre. He indulged
himself in a muddled tirade about Judas, Christ, and Moses. He declared that all his opponents
were after was to hold on to the offices; but that he would kick them out; that they wanted
to get rid of him, but that he defied them. And so on. At Indianapolis a disorderly crowd hooted
him down and would not let him speak at all.

New Congress Overwhelmingly Anti-Johnson

He returned to Washington an utterly discomfited and disgraced man, having gone out to win
popular support, and having earned only popular disgust. The humorists, pictorial as well as
literary, pounced upon the "swinging around the circle" as a fruitful subject for caricature
or satire, turning serious wrath into a bitter laugh. Andrew Johnson became the victim not
only of detestation but of ridicule.

The campaign was then--about the middle of September--virtually decided. There was no longer
any doubt that the election would not only preserve, but materially increase, the anti-Johnson
majority in Congress. But before President Johnson started on his ill-starred journey, arrangements
had been made for the other national conventions. One of them was designed to bring Southern
loyalists, that is, Southern men who had stood loyally by the National Government, together
with Northern Republicans. It met at Philadelphia on the 3rd of September. Senator Zachariah
Chandler and myself attended it as delegates sent there by the Republicans of Michigan. It
was a large gathering, the roll of which bore many distinguished names from all parts of the
country. Southern members having been permitted to say but very little in the Johnson convention
a fortnight before, it was a clever stroke of policy on the part of our managers to give the
floor to the Southern loyalists altogether. They availed themselves of the opportunity to lay
before the people of the country an account of their experiences and sufferings, since the
promulgation of the Johnson policy, which could not fail to stir the popular heart. Their recitals
of the atrocities committed in the South were indeed horrible. Over a thousand Union citizens
had been murdered there since the surrender of Lee and in no case had the assassins been brought
to judgment. But after Mr. Johnson's "swing around the circle" no further exertions could have
saved his cause, and no further exertion could have very much augmented the majority against
him. I am convinced he would have been beaten without his disgraceful escapade. But his self-exhibitions
made his defeat overwhelming. The Republicans won in one hundred and forty-three Congressional
districts, the Democrats in only forty-nine. President Johnson was more at the mercy of Congress
than ever.

During the canvass I was somewhat in demand as a speaker and addressed large meetings at various
places. One of my speeches, delivered at Philadelphia on the 8th of September, was printed
in pamphlet form and widely circulated as a campaign document. I have read it again--thirty-nine
years after its delivery--and I may say that after the additional light and the experience
which this lapse of time has given us, I would now draw the diagnosis of the situation then
existing substantially as I did in that speech--barring some, not many--extravagances of oratorical
coloring, and the treatment of the disqualification clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution.

The Movement Toward Negro Suffrage

It was in this campaign that the matter of negro suffrage was first discussed on the hustings
with a certain frankness. Efforts have since been made, and are now being made, to make the
Southern people believe--and, I deeply regret to say, many of them actually do believe--that
the introduction of negro suffrage was a device of some particularly malignant and vindictive
radicals, to subject the South to the extreme of distress and humiliation. Nothing could be
farther from the truth. Admitting that there were people in the North who, before the passions
of the War had subsided, wished to see the rebels and their sympathizers and abettors in some
way punished for what they had done, negro suffrage never was thought of as a punitive measure.
I may say that in all my intercourse with various classes of people--and my opportunities were
large--I have never heard it mentioned or suggested, still less advocated, as a punitive measure.
It never was in itself popular with the masses--reason enough for the ordinary politicians
to be afraid of openly favoring it. There were only two classes of men who at all thought of
introducing it generally; those whom, without meaning any disparagement, I would for the sake
of convenience call the doctrinaires,--men who, like Mr. Sumner, would insist as a general
principle that the negro, being a man, was as a matter of right as much entitled to the suffrage
as the white man; and those who, after a faithful and somewhat perplexed wrestle with the complicated
problem of reconstruction, finally landed--or, it might almost be said, were stranded--at the
conclusion that to enable the negro to protect his own rights as a free man by the exercise
of the ballot was after all the simplest way out of the tangle, and at the same time the most
in accordance with our democratic principles of government.

This view of the matter grew rapidly in popular appreciation as the results of reconstruction
on the Johnson plan became more and more unsatisfactory. It gained very much in strength when
it appeared that the tremendous rebuke administered to the President's policy by the Congressional
elections of 1866 had not produced any effect upon Mr. Johnson's mind, but that, as his annual
message delivered on December 3rd showed, he was doggedly bent upon following his course. It
was still more strengthened when all the Southern legislatures set up under the President's
plan, save that of Tennessee, rejected the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution,--some
unanimously, or nearly so,--and even with demonstrations of contemptuous defiance. Then the
question was asked at the North with great pertinency: Are we to understand that the white
people of the States lately in rebellion will not agree that all persons born or naturalized
in the United States shall be constitutionally recognized as citizens entitled in their civil
rights to the equal protection of the laws? That those States insist, not only that the colored
people shall not have the right of suffrage, but that those people so excluded from the franchise
shall even serve to increase the basis of representation in favor of the whites--or in other
words, that the white people of the South shall come out of the rebellion politically stronger
than they were when they went into it? That all those who engaged in the rebellion and fought
to destroy the Union shall be entitled to participate on even more favorable terms than ourselves
in the government of the same Union which but yesterday they sought to destroy? That they refuse
to safeguard the public debt incurred for saving the Union and wish to keep open the possibility
of an assumption of the debts incurred by the rebel States for destroying the Union?

The fact was not overlooked that the great mass of the Southern negroes were grossly ignorant
and in other respects ill-fitted for the exercise of political privileges. Many who then favored
negro suffrage would have greatly preferred its gradual introduction, first limiting it, as
Mr. Lincoln suggested to Governor Hahn of Louisiana, to those who had served as soldiers in
the Union army and those who were best fitted for it by intelligence and education. But this
would have reduced the negro vote to so small a figure as to render it insufficient to counteract
or neutralize the power of the reactionary element. To that end the whole vote was required;
and for that reason it was demanded, in spite of the imperfections it was known to possess
and of the troubles it threatened--which, however, at that period were much underestimated,
as is apt to be the case under similar circumstances.

Reconstruction Under Military Control

When the session of Congress opened on the 3rd of December, it was virtually certain that unrestricted
negro suffrage would come and that President Johnson's reconstruction policy would be swept
out of the way. The Republican majority without delay passed a bill extending the suffrage
to the negroes in the District of Columbia, which then had a municipal government of its own.
The President put his veto on the bill, but the veto was promptly overruled by two-thirds majorities
in both Houses. Then followed a series of legislative measures designed substantially to substitute
for the reconstruction work done by the President a method of reconstruction based upon universal
suffrage including the negro vote, and to strip the President as much as possible of all power
to interfere. The first, upon the ground that life and property were not safe under the existing
provisional governments, divided the late rebel States into five military divisions, each to
be under the command of a general officer who was to have the power to declare martial law
and to have offenders tried by military commission, as the condition of public safety and order
might seem to them to require. Under their protection conventions were to be elected by universal
suffrage including the negro vote and excluding the disqualified "rebel" vote, to frame new
State constitutions containing provision for the same sort of universal suffrage, such constitutions
to be subject to the approval of the people of the respective States and of Congress. The State
officers to be elected under these new constitutions were, of course, to be elected by the
same electorate, and the States were to be regarded as entitled to representation in Congress,
after having ratified the Fourteenth Amendment to the National Constitution, and after that
Amendment had been ratified by a sufficient number of the States generally to make it a valid
part of the Constitution. A supplementary reconstruction act gave the military commanders very
extensive control over the elections to be held, as to the registration of voters, the mode
of holding the elections, the appointment of election officers, the canvassing of results,
and the reporting of such results to the President and through him to Congress. In order to
strip President Johnson of all power to interfere with the execution of this measure beyond
the appointment of the commanders of the various military divisions, a provision was introduced
in the Army Appropriation bill which substantially ordained that all military orders and instructions
should be issued through the General of the Army (General Grant), who was to have his headquarters
at Washington; and that all orders and instructions issued otherwise should be null and void.
And when the generals commanding the several divisions had expressed some doubt as to the interpretation
of some provisions of the Reconstruction Act, and the President had issued instructions concerning
those points which displeased Congress, another act was passed, which, by way of explanation
of the meaning of its predecessors, still further enlarged the powers of the military commanders
and made them virtually rulers over everything and everybody in those States. In the mean time,
to tie the President's hands still farther, the Tenure of Office Act had been passed, which
was to curtail or hamper President Johnson's power to dismiss office-holders from their places
so as to reduce as much as possible his facilities for punishing the opponents and for rewarding
the friends of his policy, and thus, as it would now be called, for building up an office-holders'
machine for his use.

The Public Fear of Johnson

President Johnson in every case promptly vetoed the bills objectionable to him or fulminated
his protests against what he considered unwarrantable encroachments upon his constitutional
prerogatives. Some of his messages, reported to have been written either by Mr. Seward or by
Mr. Jeremiah Black, a man of brilliant abilities, were strong in argument as well as eloquent
in expression. But they were not listened to--much less considered. Mr. Johnson had personally
discredited himself to such a degree that the connection of his personality with anything he
advocated fatally discredited his cause. The air, not only in Washington, but throughout the
country, was buzzing with rumors of iniquities which Andrew Johnson was meditating and would
surely attempt if he were not disarmed. He was surely plotting a coup d'état; he had already
slyly tried to get General Grant out of the way by sending him on a trumped-up diplomatic errand
to Mexico. When, therefore, the news came from Washington that Andrew Johnson was to be impeached,
to deprive him of his office, it was not only welcomed by reckless partizanship, but as everybody
who has lived through those times will remember, it struck a popular chord. There was a widespread
feeling among well-meaning and sober people that the country was really in some sort of peril,
and that it would be a good thing to get rid of that dangerous man in the presidential chair.

But for this vague feeling of uneasiness approaching genuine alarm, I doubt whether Congress
would ever have ventured upon the tragi-comedy of the impeachment.

It explains also the fact that so many lawyers in Congress, as well as in the country, although
they must have seen the legal weakness of the case against Andrew Johnson, still labored so
hard to find some point upon which he might be convicted. It was for political, not for legal
reasons that they did so--not reasons of political partizanship, but the higher political reason
that they thought the public interest made the removal of Andrew Johnson from his place of
power eminently desirable. I have to confess that I leaned somewhat to that opinion myself--not
that I believed in the sinister revolutionary designs of Mr. Johnson, but because I thought
that the presence of Mr. Johnson in the presidential office encouraged among the white people
of the South hopes and endeavors which, the longer they were indulged in, the more grievous
the harm they would do to both races. It can indeed not be said that President Johnson failed
to execute the reconstruction laws enacted by Congress by refusing to perform the duties imposed
upon him, such as the appointment of the commanders of military divisions. He even effectively
opposed, through his able and accomplished Attorney-General, Mr. Stanbery, the attempts of
two Southern governors to stop the enforcement of the Reconstruction Act by the legal process
of injunction. But the mere fact that he was believed to favor the reactionary element in the
South and would do all in his power to let it have its way was in itself an influence constantly
inflaming the passions kindled by mischievous hopes.

The Fatal Bungling of Reconstruction

The condition of things in the South had become deplorable in the extreme. Had the reconstruction
measures enacted by Congress, harsh as they were, been imposed upon the Southern people immediately
after the War, when the people were stunned by their overwhelming defeat, and when there was
still some apprehension of bloody vengeance to be visited upon the leaders of the rebellion--as
was the case, for instance, in Hungary in 1849 after the collapse of the great insurrection--those
measures would have been accepted as an escape from something worse. Even negro suffrage in
a qualified form, as General Lee's testimony before the Reconstruction Committee showed, might
then have been accepted as a peace-offering.

But the propitious moment was lost. Instead of gently persuading the Southerners, as Lincoln
would have done, that the full restoration of the States lately in rebellion would necessarily
depend upon the readiness and good faith with which they accommodated themselves to the legitimate
results of the War, and that there were certain things which the victorious Union government
was bound to insist upon, not in a spirit of vindictiveness, but as a simple matter of honor
and duty--instead of this President Johnson told them that their instant restoration to their
old status in the Union, that is, to complete self-government and to participation in the National
Government, on equal terms with the other States, had become their indefeasible constitutional
right as soon as the insurgents laid down their arms and went through the form of taking an
oath of allegiance, and that those who refused to recognize the immediate validity of that
right were no better than traitors and public enemies. Nothing could have been more natural,
under such circumstances, than that the master class in the South should have seen a chance
to establish something like semi-slavery, and that, pressed by their economic perplexities,
they should have eagerly grasped at that chance. No wonder that what should have been as gentle
as possible a transition from one social state into another degenerated into an angry political
brawl, which grew more and more furious as it went on. No wonder, finally, that when at last
the Congressional reconstruction policy, which at first might have been quietly submitted to
as something that might have been worse, and that could not be averted, came at last in the
midst of that brawl, it was resented in the South as an act of diabolical malice and tyrannical
oppression not to be endured. And the worst outcome of all was, that many white people of the
South who had at first cherished a kindly feeling for the negroes on account of their "fidelity"
during the War, now fell to hating the negroes as the cause of all their woes; that, on the
other hand, the negroes, after all their troubles, raised to a position of power, now were
tempted to a reckless use of that power; and that a selfish partizan spirit growing up among
the Republican majority, instead of endeavoring to curb that tendency, encouraged, or, at least,
tolerated it for party advantage.

I have to confess that I took a more hopeful view of the matter at the time, for I did not
foresee the mischievous part which selfish partizan spirit would play in that precarious situation.
I trusted that the statesmen of the Republican party would prove clear-sighted enough to perceive
in time the danger of excesses which their reconstruction policy would bring to the South,
and that they would be strong enough in influence to combat that danger. Nothing could have
been farther from my mind than the expectation that before long it would be my lot to take
an active part in that combat on the most conspicuous political stage in the country.

THE THIRTEENTH MOVE

BY ALBERTA BANCROFT

ILLUSTRATIONS BY M. J. SPERO

Ikey stood on the street corner and fingered her veil to keep passersby from seeing her lips
tremble. She was sure that she was going to cry right there in the open, and she was furious
about it, because she did not approve of weepy females.

"If you dare," she whispered fiercely, "if you dare, I'll--I'll--you shan't have that nickel's
worth of peanut candy, or those currant buns, either."

This threat proving effective, she turned, head held high, and entered the bakery.

There was the usual Saturday afternoon crowd, jostling on the shoddy thoroughfare. To-day the
jostling was intensified; for the car strike was on in full blast, feeling ran high, and demonstrations
were being made against the company. Now and again a car passed slowly up or down the street,
drays and express wagons blocking its progress wherever possible, scab conductor and motorman
hooted at by San Francisco men and beplumed ladies for their pains.

Ikey looked at the mob in disgust. Then she hurried around the corner and away from the scene
of commotion.

"And to think that it has come to this, that I can't ride up and down in those cars all day
long--just to show 'em."

The beach was what she really wanted--one of those little sand hummocks with juicy plants sprawling
over it, that protect one from the wind and yet reveal beyond ravishing glimpses of cliff and
breaker and sapphire shining sea.

But the beach was not to be found in the heart of town. And she was too tired to walk there--not
having had any lunch and being very angry besides. And she would lose her "job"--her miserable,
wretched, disgusting, good-for-nothing job (Ikey loved adjectives), if she rode. For any and
all women connected with any and all union men had been forbidden to use the company's cars.
And business houses--who had anything to gain from it--had promised their employees instant
dismissal for even one ride. And the firm that employed Ikey would lose three-fourths of its
trade if the union boycotted it.

So the sand-dunes would have to wait. But there were some vacant lots, backed by a scraggle
of rough, red rock, only half a dozen blocks away. If luck were with her, the loafers might
be in temporary abeyance and the refugee tents not unduly prominent.

Luck was with her. And Ikey sat down on the lea of the little cliff, quite alone, spread out
her buns,--you got three for ten cents these catastrophe days,--and faced the situation.

The landlady had raised the rent.

Ikey could have screamed with laughter over the situation--if only the matter were not so vital.

"This'll make the thirteenth move for you, Ikey, my love, since the eighteenth of April--and
the thirteenth move is bound to be unlucky. But you'll have to go, sure as Fate; for you can't
stand another raise. The Wandering Jew gentleman takes the road again."

She pursed her lips as she said it. She had invented the appelation for herself after nine
moves in three months. "I don't know what his name really was," she confessed--there was no
one else to talk to, no one she cared for, so she talked, sub voice, to herself--"but it must
have been Ikey. I'm sure it was Ikey--and that I look just like him." And deriving much comfort
from this witticism, she went on her way.

"Ikey, the Wandering Jew, on the move again," she repeated. "But where to move to, that is
the question. It's funny what a difference money makes"--her eyebrows went up--"or rather,
lack of it. I've never considered that until recently."

Then her eyes fell on her shoes.

They had been very swagger little shoes in the beginning--Ikey had made rather a specialty
of footgear--but they were her "escape" shoes; and their looks told the tale of their wanderings.
Also, she had had no others since.

She wriggled her toes.

"You'll be poking through before long, looking at the stars," she told them severely. "Imagine
your excitement."

And her suit.

Ikey looked away so as not to see the perfect cut of it, the perfect fit of it, the utter shabbiness
of it. It was her "escape" suit, too. She had slept on the hills in it to the tune of dynamiting
and the flare of the burning city. She would never have another like it--never. For her job----

Her job.

She leaned back suddenly and closed her eyes. Her job. The rage of this noon was coming back
again; rage, and with it a strange, new sensation--fear. She had never known fear before, not
even during the earthquake days. "Only at the dentist's," she told herself, giggling half hysterically
behind closed lids.

And back of it all--back of the landlady's unconcealed dislike and latest slap, back of the
disintegration of a wardrobe that could not be replaced, and the question as to whether her
"job" had not become an impossibility since to-day--and that job simply could not become an
impossibility: one had to live--back of all this was the dull hurt, smothered and always coming
again, that Bixler McFay had not taken the trouble to look her up when his regiment came through
on the way to Manila.

"You may as well face that, too, while you're about it," Ikey observed sarcastically. She opened
her eyes with a snap and bit into the first bun.

"The regiment was only here three days," a little voice inside of her whispered fearfully.

"Three days!" Ikey's scorn was unbounded. "If he had cared, he could have found you in three
hours--and he always said he cared. It's a thing you've got to live with. It's nothing so unusual.
It happens every day. Why can't you treat it like a poor relation?"

And her thoughts went back to Fort Leavenworth, and the gowns on gowns she had worn, all burned
up at the St. Francis last spring, with the rest of her things, a week after she had reached
the city; and Cousin Mary, suave and elegant and impressive as her chaperon; and herself, petted
and made much of on all sides, and incidentally pointed out as the richest girl on the field,
and an orphan; and Bixler McFay, handsome, brilliant, devoted, always on hand, always protesting----

A whimsical, sarcastic little smile curved her lips for a moment. The earthquake had certainly
made a difference. A vision of Cousin Mary arose--not the suave and elegant chaperon of a wealthy
young relative, but a frightened, self-centered, middle-aged woman, who had taken the earthquake
as a personal affront put upon her by her young charge and insisted on being the first consideration
in no matter what environment she found herself.

Then came another vision. She recalled her parting with Bixler McFay in the late winter, when
she had left Leavenworth for the Coast, saying it wasn't decent not to know anything about
the place where all your income came from, and he had left Leavenworth to rejoin his regiment
in Arizona. How his voice had trembled that morning as he bade her good-bye, declaring he should
always consider himself engaged to her, even if she did not consider herself engaged to him;
begging that she wear his class pin, or at least keep it for him if she would not wear it,
because the thought of its being in her possession would comfort him in his loneliness.

It had comforted her in those first dreadful days after the fire to think that he was alive
and on his way to her. It never entered her head but what he would come at once: when friends
were looking for friends and enemies were succoring one another, how should he fail her?

And then--not one word. Not even an inquiry in the paper; when that was about all the papers
were made up of for days after--column after column of addresses and inquiries, along with
the death notices.

And afterwards--not one word----

II

"I won't pretend this is accidental, Miss Stanton."

Ikey looked up startled, began to curl her feet up under her skirt, decided that it was not
worth while,--he was only one of the boarders,--and offered buns and candy with indifferent
promptness.

"There's a gang of toughs coming down over the hill. Strikers, maybe. I thought they might
startle you."

He seated himself unceremoniously on a rock near by.

Ikey settled back with a little comfortable movement against her own rock and raised her eyebrows.

"The proper thing for me to do at this stage is to inquire in a haughty voice how you happened
to know I was here."

"I followed you."

There was no hint of apology, and she looked at him more closely. She had sat opposite him
at the unesthetic boarding-house dining-table for the past six weeks now. He ate enormously,--but
in cultured wise,--never said anything, was something over six feet tall, wore ready-made,
dust-colored clothes, and was utterly inconspicuous. "Like a big gray wall." Just now it was
the expression of his face, intangibly different--or had she never taken the trouble to notice
him before?--that fixed her attention.

He was looking straight at her.

"I've been following you ever since you left your office," he said after a deliberate pause;
and Ikey's eyes grew large and frightened as she took in his meaning.

"Then you saw----"

"I did." There was another pause. "It won't happen again." His tone was quite final. "Why do
you lay yourself open to that sort of thing? Don't you know that the burnt district is no place
for any woman at all these days--not even one block of it? Why don't you ride?"

His voice was quite cross, and Ikey could have laughed aloud. This, to her, who had the burnt
district on her nerves to such an extent that she dreamed of the brick-and-twisted-iron chaos
by night--the miles of desolation, punctuated by crumbling chimneys and tottering walls--dreamed
of it by night and turned sick at the sight of it by day. Did this stupid hulk of a person
think she liked the burnt district--and to walk there?

After all, his attitude was less funny than impertinent. She would be angry. It was better.
She would respond icily and put him in his place.

At least, such was her intention. But she discovered to her amazement that she was trembling--her
encounter of the noon was responsible for that--and her teeth seemed inclined to hit against
each other rapidly with a little clicking noise. So it seemed on the whole more expedient to
blurt out her remarks without any attempt at frills or amplification.

"Why don't you ride?"

Ikey gathered herself together.

"My dear Mr. Hammond, there is a street car strike on here in San Francisco. No union wagons
run out this way--and I lose my position if I use the cars."

He was welcome to that. She looked off into the distance while he assimilated it.

"I had not thought of that," he said at last slowly. "In that case there is but one thing to
do. You must stop that work at once."

"And stand in the bread line? Now? Along with--those others?" A little smile twisted her lips.
"I should look handsome doing that."

"But surely----"

His tone was beginning to be puzzled. So was his expression. Ikey ascertained this by allowing
a glance to brush past him.

Suddenly he had changed his position. He was beside her on the ground, facing her, staring
her out of countenance.

"We may as well get the clear of this right now----"

"It is needlessly clear to me, Mr. Hammond."

"But not to me. In the first place----"

"I will not trouble you----"

"It is no trouble. In the first place, has that fellow followed you, spoken to you before?"

"Never--never like that."

She wondered whether he had noticed her unsuccessful effort to rise and put an end to the interview.

"Do you know who he is?"

"He is the junior member of the firm I work for."

"What! Well, I am glad I smashed him." Then he added quickly, "This, of course, puts an end
to your going there, at once. You've been at it too long anyway. It's stopped being a joke,
and as a pose----"

"'Pose.'"

The intonation was subtle. A moment's bewilderment, and he burst out, "You're not doing this
because you--have to?"

"That--or something."

"But--but--Good Lord, child! Where is your money?"

With pomp and ceremony--but languidly withal, for her head was beginning to ache, and she wanted
desperately to cry--she laid her purse in his hand. But she did not look at him.

The big hand closed over the flat little thing impatiently.

"I am referring to your bank account."

"And by what right----"

"We'll settle that later. The banks have opened up again----"

"That's all I have."

"But what has become--You're not going to faint?"

"No."

"Then what has become----"

Quite against her will she was beginning to find herself faintly amused. Of all pigheaded,
impertinent people, this individual with whom she had hardly had more than five minutes' conversation,
except at meal times during the past six weeks, was certainly the worst.

"I really must know, Miss Stanton, what has become----"

"I gave it away."

"You--gave it--away!" Italics could never do justice to his intonation. He was staring at her
as though he considered her demented. "To whom?" came his indignant question.

After all, why not tell him? It was none of his business; and he was desperately impertinent;
but she was desperately forlorn; and, though it could not better the situation to talk about
it, it might better her feelings.

She slipped farther down against her rock; and he bent forward, listening intently.

"I gave it to--a relative. She was living with me at the time of the fire. We had only just
come up from Los Angeles--because I wanted to--I had some property here; all my income came
from it; and I felt I ought to know more about it--in case anything happened. And after the
earthquake she acted as though I had led her up to the--jaws of death--and pushed her in--and
later she was so afraid of typhoid--and everything. And so--at last, when the banks opened
up again--I gave her all the money I had in the bank--and she went East right away--and I stayed
here."

"With nothing?"

"I had fifty dollars. I was doing relief work at the Presidio, waiting for the vaults to cool
off--I had a lot of paper money in a box there--and for the insurance companies to pay--and
for the man who looked after my affairs to get well: he'd been hurt in the earthquake. But
he didn't get well: he had a stroke, instead, and died. And his partner--they were lawyers--went
away; all their books and papers and everything had been burnt up, and he didn't seem to think
he could ever straighten things out; and when the vaults were opened, the paper money I had
in the box was all dust--and the insurance companies haven't paid."

She shrugged her shoulders delicately over the situation, already disgusted with herself at
having descended to disclosing her private affairs to a stranger.

Meanwhile, "So that's it," the stranger was saying. "I've wondered a lot."

"You needn't have troubled."

"No trouble," he blandly assured her. "Houghton always was an ass"--(Houghton was the younger
lawyer. How had he known? the girl wondered)--"lighting out for Goldfield when he ought to
be here, straightening out his clients' business. And so you went to work on some beggarly
salary, instead of seeing about having your property put in shape again. Why didn't you lease,
or----"

"I couldn't find out where it was," she retorted, furious. "I'd only been here a week when
the fire came; and not for years before that."

----"and not put yourself in a position where you get insulted by some little scrub who isn't
fit for you to walk on.--Are you going to faint?"

"No."

"Then what's the matter?" inquired the clod at her side.

"Nothing," she fibbed promptly. How different this creature was from Bixler McFay! Bixler had
never pried into her private affairs, or evinced an interest in her possessions, or insisted
on answers she did not wish to give, or pursued topics she did not care for. Bixler had none
of the bluntness, the pigheadedness, the brutality of this--but then, there was no comparing
the two. Only, she had vowed not to think of Bixler any more. He was not worth it.

"Nothing's the matter with me," she said. "Only, when I got back to the boarding-house after--after
downtown to-day, the landlady said I'd have to pay sixty a month or leave at once, and--and
she hadn't saved any lunch for me, and----"

"And you've been eating----"

He looked at the candy-bag and the morsel of bun with horror.

"I thought they'd cheer me up," Ikey murmured meekly, "but they've made me feel--kind of queer."

"That settles it." The big hand came down forcefully upon his knee. "We'll get the thickest
steak you ever laid your eyes on in about two minutes. But first--we'll get married."

"What!"

III

What happened after that Ikey could never clearly remember. Bits of the ensuing conversation
came back to her, memories of the sickening rage, the stupefying bewilderment that possessed
her, and the exhaustion that followed. But order there was none. And she was sure she never
got the whole of it.

At one stage in the proceedings she had observed in a haughty voice that she did not care to
have his sympathy--or pity--take that form.

"Oh, it's not that," he assured her pleasantly; "but I'm tired of knocking around the world
alone. I need an anchor. I think you"--he looked at her impersonally, but politely--"would
make a good anchor."

"You mean you want me to reform you!"

He smiled a careful smile.

"No-o. I don't feel the need of reforming. There's nothing the matter with me----"

"How lovely to have such a high opinion of oneself."

"Yes. Isn't it? But as I was saying----"

At another stage she tried to take refuge behind the usual platitude: she did not love him.

He considered this--at ease before her, his hands in his pockets.

"Well, when it comes to that, I don't love you, either"--Ikey gasped--"but I don't consider
that that makes any difference."

Another break.

Then, "What'll you do, if you don't?" he had asked her in a businesslike manner. "You're just
on the verge of a breakdown"--She knew it; and his tone of conviction did not add to her sense
of security--"Another scene like to-day's would upset you completely. You say you have no friends
or relatives here; and there's no one you want to go to away from here. And besides, I can
look after you a great deal better than you can look after yourself."

There must have been much arguing after that. There must have; for she had not the slightest
intention of being disposed of in this medieval fashion. But in the midst of some determined
though shaky sentence of hers, he had said quite kindly and finally that they need not discuss
the matter any further--besides, she had to have a good stiff lunch right off--and had piloted
her carefully, but with no over-powering air of devotion, out of the empty lots, around the
corner, and into an automobile.

"It was all the fault of that wretched beefsteak," mourned Ikey an hour or two later. "If I'd
only had it before, it never would have happened--never. I shall always have a grudge against
it. What am I to do now?"

The automobile had conveyed them smoothly, first, to a clergyman's, of all people; next, to
a restaurant; then, to the boarding-house, where her few belongings had found their way into
a telescope basket; and now it was conveying them through the bedraggled outskirts of the city
into the country beyond.

A hatchet-faced chauffeur was manipulating things in front; while the unspeakable man in gray
sat unemotionally beside her in the tonneau and looked the other way.

"What am I to do now?" The bewildered girl found no answer to the one question of her mind.
"Why don't you faint?" she asked herself severely. "Why don't you faint? If you had an idea
of helping me out of this pickle, you'd do it at once, and never come to at all, and then have
brain fever. It's the only decent solution. Instead of that, here you are, feeling--actually
comfortable."

She stared ahead of her with miserable eyes.

"It was all that miserable beefsteak. The thing must have been six inches thick. Beast; why
couldn't he have taken me to the restaurant first? Then I'd never have gone to the clergyman's.
And that license. Where did he get it? We never stopped for one--he just pulled it out of his
pocket, as though it had been a handkerchief. Ikey, you're married, married--do you quite understand?--to
a man who wears ready-made clothes and doesn't love you and lives in an attic boarding-house
bed-room. And what is he doing with this automobile? And what is his business? Oh, he's probably
a chauffeur; and he's borrowed his employer's bubble; and this other chauffeur in front's his
best friend and ashamed of him on account of the beefsteak business. He'd better be. But what
shall I say to him? What shall I say?--Oh--h"--heaven-sent inspiration--"I'll say nothing at
all. I will be--so different."

On and on and on went the machine. The girl closed her eyes upon the dusty, dun-colored landscape.

"Serves me right for turning over my bank account to Cousin Mary and--and----"

She had fallen asleep, propped up in her corner of the machine--worn out by this climax to
the weeks that had gone before.

The man at her side turned and looked at her. His face no longer wore its placidly and conventionally
polite expression.

IV

"The thirteenth move. Didn't I say it would be unlucky!"

Ikey had fled to the garden, letter in hand, to review the situation. The low clouds threatened
rain. But what did that matter? The house stifled her with its large, low, mannish rooms and
continued reminder of Arthur Hammond; and she had to think--think--think everything out from
the very beginning.

That first evening--when she wakened in the dusk at his side in the automobile and stared bewildered
at the dim outline of the low, rambling brown house tucked away among shrubbery under a load
of vines--how quick he had been to reassure her, to explain that a friend of his, who had expected
to come here with his bride, had had to go to Mexico instead and had asked him to occupy the
bungalow until their return. A woman and a Chinaman went with the place; and she would have
the run of a large garden. She could get rested there; and he could go to and from town every day.

And the days that followed--how careful he had been; how matter-of-fact and unemotional; never
touching her; never making any sudden motion towards her; never referring to that short ten
minutes at the clergyman's; never going near the two rooms the respectable English housekeeper
had conducted her to that first evening.

"Almost as though he were trying to tame a bird," she had thought half whimsically, after the
first days, when the feeling of weariness and fright had worn down and a great relief and great
thankfulness had taken its place, that she should never see the boarding-house again with its
sneering, insulting landlady, or the office where that man with the eager, shifty, cruel little
eyes held rule.

And so she had set herself about it, resolutely, though bewildered, to be an anchor to this
big, unemotional young man who had so suddenly come out of the background of her existence
and was occupying all possible space immediately behind the footlights.

She did not at all know what an anchor did, or said, or how it acted. But the very perplexity
for some reason or other sent her spirits sky-high. And she pottered about the garden with
him, and whizzed about the country in the automobile,--it belonged to the same friend who wanted
him to look after the place,--and poked about the queer, rambling house, content to see no
one else and talk to no one else and amazed at herself that this should be so.

Only once had he made any reference to their situation, when he suggested that it might be
as well under the circumstances for her to call him Arthur.

"I shall never call you Arthur. Never," she told him hotly. "I loathe the name. Always have.
It sounds so deadly respectable."

"You don't care for respectability?" His tone was so affable.

Ikey considered. "It may have advantages, in some cases. But----"

"Then what am I to be called?"

She might have retorted that she should call him nothing at all: he never addressed her by
any name. Instead, she answered, "Boobles."

"Boobles?"

"Boobles," she repeated firmly. And then came laughter. Ikey's rages had a way of breaking
up in inconvenient bursts of hilarity these days.

But what difference did that make now? What difference did anything make?

"I don't see," Ikey said to herself desperately, "what makes me so stupid. I'm afflicted with
chronic mental nearsightedness. Most distressing. This is really a tragedy I'm mixed up in--a
tragedy. And tragedy's a thing I never cared for."

She collapsed miserably on a bench and stared at the letter.

"It's queer how tragedy and going to sea give you the same feeling."

It was not pity--oh, no--that had made him want to marry her. And it was not love. And it was
not because he needed an anchor. Not he. He was not that kind. It was simply because she was
his opportunity. Yes; that was the word. And she had never suspected.

Not that afternoon in the vacant lot, when he had inquired so exhaustingly as to her bank account.

Not the next week, when he appeared from town in the middle of the afternoon, all unheralded
and paler than ordinary, with papers to sign, and the exhilarating news that the insurance
companies had paid up, and a new bank-book with her name and comforting fat figures in it.

How desperately glad she had been over that. For hot shame possessed her at her appearance--shabby
clothes and hardly any of them, when his ready-made dust-colored garments had immediately been
replaced by the well-fitting blue serge that was her special weakness in masculine attire.
She had invested heavily in frills and slowly regained her self-respect.

And not when he had appeared with a list of her property--how had he come by that list?--stating
that he had made arrangements to lease certain pieces and rebuild at once on the others, and
asking her approval of the final arrangements.

She had not suspected him then, either, idiot that she was. She had been too busy being rested,
being thankful, being happy in the big garden, tucked away from the people who had failed her
and the ghastly city and the memory of its great disaster.

She turned to the letter again. Bixler McFay had always written a good letter. This time he
quite surpassed himself.

Heart-broken, unreconciled; his hopes shipwrecked; his faith destroyed. How could she have
treated him so? She had been practically engaged to him; and she had left him a prey to every
horrible emotion at a time when one word would have put his mind at rest. No clew as to her
whereabouts by which he could trace her.

She passed that over with her little crooked, sarcastic smile. She had telegraphed and written
both--and the second letter had been registered. He had probably forgotten that little fact.
But it was of little consequence now. The sting lay in what followed.

And then what did he learn? the letter inquired. That a man he supposed to be his friend, a
fellow he had met daily in Arizona for a couple of months at a time, had systematically pumped
him about her; had taken means of ascertaining her financial status, and, recognizing her as
his opportunity (that was where the word came from) had rushed off to San Francisco, married
her hand over fist, and launched himself as a capitalist--on her capital. And she had allowed it.

The girl dropped the pages in her lap. Her little fist came down on top of them.

"It's a despicable letter," she told herself hotly. "And what he thinks to gain by it, I don't
know. He just wants to make trouble.--And he has," she breathed with a downward sigh.

The question was, what to do now. And pride stood at her elbow and pointed out the only course.

This Arthur Hammond, this big, quiet, self-contained, efficient, indifferent young man--whose
opportunity she was--must never know that she knew, or, knowing, cared.

That was the only solution. Pride forbade a scene--on his account; on hers; on Bixler McFay's;
on everybody's, when it came to that. No one should know--anything.

"After a while I shall get quite old and pin-cushiony," she assured herself, "and pricks won't
prick; and nothing will matter. I must be quite affable, and quite indifferent, and always
polite--for women are only rude to men they care about." Her lips trembled. "It's all happened
before, hundreds of times to hundreds of women--and money is very interesting to men--and there's
no reason why this shouldn't happen to you, Ikey, dear--and a hundred of years from now it
won't make any difference anyway.

"But I'll never tell him anything again----"

For latterly she had told him many things about herself--young lonesomenesses that nothing
could dispel; family hunger for brothers and sisters and all the ramifications of a home; and,
half unconsciously, her utter content with the present. She turned hot at the thought of it all.

"But one thing I won't stand." She jumped up and made for the house. "He shan't have my photograph
on his dressing-table."

She had seen it there one day on passing his open door, and had wondered, wide-eyed, how he
came by it--it was one she had had taken in the East--and had felt unaccountably shy at the
thought of asking him about it.

She tore into the house, to get it, to destroy it, to tear it into tiny bits, and trample upon
it--at once, without a moment to lose--when, rushing up the porch steps, she collided with
the one person of all others she least expected to see.

V

Late afternoon. The house was very still. Outside, the rain was falling, falling, and the shrubs
bent under their burden of shining drops. Inside, the fire crackled and whispered and the girl
lay in the big armchair and looked around the room.

The fireplace; the big, rich rugs; the dark paneling; the fine, unemotional pictures--no wonder
the whole place had reminded her of Arthur Hammond. She ought to have known. She ought to have
known.

She heard his step in the hall. His door banged, once; twice; again. Then, his voice, asking
Eliza some question, and the murmur of the housekeeper's reply.

Then he came in.

She did not speak or move, and his, "Good-evening" was presently followed by the easy question:
"What's the matter?"

Then she turned on him.

"Is it true that this house belongs to you?"

A pause. Then he answered slowly,

"Yes."

"And the grounds?"

"Yes."

"And the automobile--is yours?"

"Yes."

He stood quietly watching her. She knew it, though she did not look at him. She took a deep breath.

"Those insurance companies have not paid," she said in a stifled voice. "You told me they had.
You--you gave me--Where did all that money come from I've been spending?"

"Well, I suppose originally it was mine."

"Then it's true you are a millionaire?"

"Ye-es. Just about, I guess."

"And my property--all those buildings that burnt up were mortgaged and--and I couldn't have
rebuilt--and everybody knew it--except me. The money that's putting them up again----"

"I arranged about that. But what difference does it make?"

"What did you do it for?"

"I thought you'd feel better to have an income again--and on account of other people, too.
It made me hot to have you treated as though you were--just anybody at all--simply because
your income happened to be short for a time. And--and I thought you'd rather have it that way
than take it from me--at the first," he ended lamely.

She jumped up and confronted him, white with rage.

"How dared you do that? How dared you? How do you suppose I feel, being in this position--to you?"

"I hope you don't feel at all. And besides--But how did you find out about this?"

"Cousin Mary has been here," the girl burst out, losing all idea of keeping anything back.
"She had all sorts of things to say: how badly she'd been treated--how she was shipped off
East, and I never wrote to her, nothing about my affairs, or that I was married, or anything.
She couldn't talk enough. She said everybody sympathized with her, because her prospects were
ruined, because the companies I'd insured in wouldn't pay and my land was mortgaged so I couldn't
rebuild. She knew that--and she'd never told me. And then she spoke a piece about my conduct
in getting married and never telling her a word about it beforehand. She said she was mortified
to death to have to learn about my marriage from strangers--strangers--just accidentally. But
there wasn't anything she didn't know: that you were a millionaire, but very eccentric and
not given to going around like a rational being--in society; and that you had places around
in different States and always made it a point not to know your neighbors, so you wouldn't
have them come dropping in interfering with you; and that you were amusing yourself now with
putting my affairs on their legs again; and how lucky it was for me; and how strange it was,
when I was making a brilliant marriage, not to make it, at least, in a dignified, even if not
in a brilliant manner, with a church wedding and all. There wasn't anything she didn't know.
I believe she used detectives to find out. And she ended up by saying that she had a lovely
disposition and would forgive me--I could have killed her--I was her only first cousin's only
child--and she was coming here to live."

"The deuce she did!"

"But what did you do it for?" She turned on him furiously. "What did you do it for?"

"Yes--but where's this Cousin Mary?"

"We had a scene--at least, part of one: we didn't either of us say half we wanted to--and she's
left. She'll probably decide in the end, though, that her disposition's lovely enough to overlook
it, and insist on making her home with her eccentric millionaire cousin-in-law--What did you
do this for?"

He stood there, frowning in perplexity. Then with a sigh of relief, "Supposing we sit down,"
he said, as one who has a happy inspiration. "I don't know as I can explain this to your satisfaction--exactly.
But I'll try. It seemed to me--Don't you know, I thought--Hang it all, that King Cophetua business--was
that the chap's name?--never did appeal to me a little bit. I'm dead sure that Beggar Maid
had it in for him from the start for his beastly condescending ways to her. And I was afraid
you might think--you see, it seemed to me that when your affairs were back in the position
they ought to be, perhaps you'd feel better towards me."

He looked at her with boyish entreaty in his eyes. It was as though she were suddenly in the
room with a new person. The expression of his face left her breathless.

"Then you came to that boarding-house deliberately to----"

"I did. Deliberately to let you get a bit used to me. It might have upset you to have a perfect
stranger come up and marry you offhand."

"But--but"--she gasped.

She was flushed to the eyes. Suddenly he turned and switched on the electric lights. Then he
turned back and looked at her--hard. The rose deepened.

"Surely, you're not pretending to tell me," he said slowly, as one thoroughly bedazed, "that
you don't know I'm so looney about you my hand shakes whenever you come into the room?"

The girl looked away.

"You said that day--that day--that day, you know----"

"Well?"

"You said most distinctly that--you didn't love me."

He turned an exasperated face toward her.

"Said that? Of course I said it. What did you expect me to say? How apt would you have been
to have taken me----"

"Taken you!"

"----if I'd come up with the confession that your eyes set me crazy and the impudent tilt of
your little nose was very much on my nerves? Supposing I'd told you that you bowled me over
the moment I saw you--It's God's truth. I saw you at the theater in New York just before you
left for Fort Leavenworth. I followed you there, but nothing that wasn't brass buttons seemed
to be having an inning; and I didn't care to meet you at all, unless I could win out. So I
left and went down to Arizona, where there was some land business I had to look after. Then
McFay came down there and talked a good deal with his mouth; and I was sure it was all off
and was doubly glad I hadn't met you. Then came the news of the earthquake and the fire; and
I kept waiting for the beggar to get leave and go to you--and he didn't go. And then one night
he--well, he was drunk, or he wouldn't have done it--but he talked some more with his mouth;
and so I knew what to expect from him and--er, removed your photograph from his rooms--he hadn't
any business having it around for men to stare at, anyway--and then I came here to find you;
and--and that's about all, I guess."

He laughed an embarrassed laugh.

"I was pretty well done for before--it seems to me everybody I met kept talking about you--but
the boarding-house business finished me completely. There were you--you'd lost more than all
that trash put together, and had been badly treated, and all--but you held your head high and
never peeped and made that dining-table a thing to look forward to beyond everything. No wonder
the landlady hated you. I could have kneeled down and kissed your little boots--not that you'd
have cared about it especially."

He laughed his boyish, embarrassed laugh again.

"But to go back a bit--how apt would you have been to have taken me--after your experiences
and that cur down at your office, besides--if I'd have trotted up and told you how I felt and
asked you please to have me? How apt would you have been? I got the license and kept it dark
and bided my time. There was nothing else to do--then."

They were standing again, facing one another, wide-eyed, and both rather breathless.

The girl turned away.

"I won't be humble," she whispered to herself tremulously. "I won't. It's a wretched policy
for women, and the effects are dreadful on men."

She trailed away towards the other end of the room.

"I'm not Ikey any more. I'm not the Wandering Jew. The thirteenth move is a glorious move,
and I've come home--to a man in a million."

Aloud she observed disdainfully, "The whole performance from beginning to end has been unspeakable--simply
unspeakable; and I insist----"

She had reached the bay-window and pressed her little nose tight against the window-pane.

"I insist you're no gentleman," came her muffled, shaky voice from behind the curtains, "or
I wouldn't have to be standing here quite by myself, waiting for you to come over here and--and
kiss me."

GIFFORD PINCHOT, FORESTER

BY WILL C. BARNES

ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOGRAPHS

For almost a century the unoccupied government lands of the West have been used as a public
commons. The stockmen have used the grass and water; the mining, sawmill, and railroad men
the timber; until--simply because no one made it his business to object to the spoliation that
was going on--what had been done wholly on the suffrance of the national government had come
to be regarded and most lustily defended as an inherent privilege and right.

And so when, a decade ago, the tall, pleasant-voiced young man from the far East, now known
throughout the United States as Gifford Pinchot, the national forester, appeared in the West,
and suggested to the stockmen that they were ruining the country by over-grazing, they laughed
him to scorn.

He told the mining and sawmill men that through reckless and extravagant methods of lumbering
they were bringing on a timber famine by great strides; he characterized their whole policy
as one of utter disregard for the future of the country; and he demanded forcible and immediate
action on the part of the Federal authorities. These pioneers had seen uncounted millions of
buffalo melt away because no one took enough interest in the matter to stop the wanton waste.
They had seen great billowy prairies, once knee-deep in the most splendid covering of grass
and vegetation, grazed down until they were hardly more than dust heaps; and mountains that
were clothed with magnificent forests swept bare--first by the woodsman's ax and later by forest
fires that burned each year millions and millions of feet of the finest timber a country ever
possessed, while no one raised a hand even to quench the fire because "it was only government
land."

The Fight against the "Pinchot Policies"

These hard-headed, adventurous Western pioneers, indignant at the thought of any curtailment
of their freedom; resentful of interference in what they were pleased to call their "inalienable
right" to do as they pleased with the country they had conquered; utterly regardless of its
future, and thinking but of the present and their own selfish interests, arose in their wrath
and protested vigorously against what they called the "Pinchot policies" of the government.

That the writer, then a range cattle-raiser in Arizona, was one of the first to feel the effects
of the new forest policy gives him all the more right to speak as he does of these things;
that he joined with loud tongue and bitter pen in the general denunciation of the "Pinchot
policies" makes it all the more a pleasure to him now to defend and explain them in so far
as he can.

Although there had been a small start toward forest preservation, it was not until Mr. Pinchot
was placed at the head of the movement in 1898 (six years after the first reserve was made),
and organized and reconstructed the force of officials, that we really had any national forest
policies worth mentioning.

His enemies first attacked his motives. He was a "notoriety seeker," a "political adventurer"
looking for personal advancement. To their surprise they found that he showed not the slightest
disposition to exploit himself; that, having millions at his command, he could expect to gain
nothing financially by his course; and that he was absolutely devoid of any political ambitions.

They then took another point of attack. "He is an Eastern swell who knows nothing of forests,
or the West and its needs. By what right does he tell us how to use the public lands?"

And again they found him invulnerable, for, after graduating from Yale in 1889, he had made
a systematic and thorough study of forestry. He traveled in Europe, through Russia, on the
great steppes of Siberia, in the Philippines, and in every part of the United States where
there were forests he investigated conditions and studied the water problem, the grazing of
cattle and sheep, and the effect of lumbering and forest fires. There is hardly a corner of
our whole Western country from the Missouri to the Pacific where forests are found that he
has not visited and inspected. Days, weeks, and months spent on horseback and on foot in the
roughest, most inaccessible portions of the Rocky Mountain region from the Canadian to the
Mexican line have made him familiar with every problem of forest preservation. He has studied
the attendant and equally important question of watershed protection and utilization of the
mountains for conserving the sources of all our great Western streams, by which millions of
acres are to be irrigated and millions of homes built up in the West. He was from the first
no "tenderfoot" adventurer, no visionary enthusiast, but a practical, hard-headed man far more
earnestly and disinterestedly concerned in the Westerners' future than they themselves had
ever been.

Born in Simsbury, Connecticut, in 1865, of old New England ancestry, Mr. Pinchot is just in
the prime of life. A man of tremendous energy and resourcefulness, tactful, quick to see a
point, frank to admit his errors, open and friendly in his intercourse with all men, and in
the game of politics the equal of any one in Washington, he is giving the best years of his
life to a cause that will bring him no personal advantage save a place in our national history
greater than that of great generals and war captains. For while their armies destroy, his little
army is saving and preserving; while their forces are ever non-productive, he and his small
force are making "two blades of grass grow where one grew before"; are building up and developing
to the uttermost the great region lying around and about the national forest areas.

Training an Army of Foresters

Mr. Pinchot rapidly gathered about him a force of expert assistants. The forest schools in
the East were just turning out their first crop of young men, trained and educated as scientific
foresters, and he brought them into the work. A year or two in the forests, mapping, scaling,
estimating, and studying the western timber conditions, made them practical as well as scientific.
The old sawmill men, themselves educated in the college of "Hard Knocks," first laughed at
these college-bred foresters, but soon learned to respect and trust them. They began to adopt
their plans and follow their suggestions, and to-day one of the most serious embarrassments
the forester has to meet is the continual hiring away from him of his best men by the Western
lumber and sawmill men, who offer salaries far beyond what the government pays.

To handle the stockmen's interests--by far the most difficult and perplexing of all the problems
connected with the administration of the national forests--Pinchot went to the Southwest and
persuaded one of the most intelligent and level-headed young stockmen in the country to become
head of the grazing department. A. F. Potter had been for years a cow-boy and range cattleman,
then for several years a sheep owner, and not only knew every branch of the stock business
through practical experience, but had the administrative ability to handle successfully the
intricate and perplexing questions of ranges, priority of rights, effects of grazing, and methods
of handling stock that must be passed upon. With this corps of assistants, and with Mr. Overton
W. Price, a man second only to himself in ability, as his chief lieutenant, Mr. Pinchot began
in earnest in the year 1898 the work of saving the remaining forested areas of the United States.

A few years ago the mining men, lumbermen, and the stockmen were almost united in their opposition
to the policies of the Government Forest Service. Then the mining men found to their surprise
that instead of being ruined and forced out of business they were being helped. If a miner
had a valuable claim on some national forest lying idle, the forest ranger of that district
saw that not one stick of timber upon it was cut by unauthorized persons. In the past, when
a miner returned to his claim after a year's absence, he generally found it stripped of the
timber which some day he would need for its development. Under the new service, he discovered
also that, when there was no timber on his own claim, he could buy at a reasonable figure all
the timber he desired for the development of his mine. In many cases, in southern Arizona,
for instance, where the wood haulers were in the habit of taking from the miners' claims fuel
which they would be likely to need for their engines sooner or later, the rangers stopped the
practice and gave the wood haulers other areas from which to cut, where no such injury to the
miners would result.

Land Piracy Checked

Of course, where mining companies, organized solely to obtain vast areas of timber land, under
cover of the mining laws, especially the Timber and Stone Act, and the Placer Mining laws,
found their work exposed by the activity and watchfulness of the forest officers, they naturally
raised a cry against the Service that woke the echoes.

The Placer laws allow a company to obtain title to twenty acres of land simply by showing five
hundred dollars' worth of mining work done upon it. No signs of mineral need be shown, no further
attempt to develop it is required. Prove that five hundred dollars' worth of work has been
done, and the patent is issued. The takers are not limited to a single tract, but can have
just as many tracts as they have sums of five hundred dollars to invest. Under this Placer
law whole townships, covered with the finest timber on the Pacific coast, were taken up solely
to obtain title to the land for the timber upon it.

Wherever the final patents had not been issued on these lands, the Forest Service stepped in
and put a stop to it, thus saving thousands of acres of timber land for the people. Small wonder
that these licensed pirates look upon a forest ranger as the embodiment of all that is bad,
and the forest policy as an encroachment upon sacred vested rights!

The Case of the Wood Haulers

And the poor wood haulers! How they complained because they thought their divine right to cut
and slash as they chose was to be invaded! What happened to them? To-day they are better off
than ever. True, they pay a little for the wood--from as low as ten cents a cord in some forests
up to fifty cents in others. But what do they get in return for it?

If a wood hauler wants to buy ten cords of wood or any amount up to fifty dollars' worth, he
simply goes to the nearest ranger, and in ten minutes the deal is over; the ranger accompanies
him to the area where he wishes to cut and shows him by marks and bounds just where he may
cut; the trees are marked, and the man sets to work knowing full well that no one else will
invade this little tract or steal his wood when it is cut and piled up waiting for him to haul
it away, as was the case over and over again in the old days of free and unlimited competition.

How the Government Sells Timber

What of the next class, the sawmill men? Every stick of matured, merchantable timber in the
forests, not needed for protection of water-sheds, is for sale. By matured timber is meant
a tree that has reached its maximum growth and development, and is beginning slowly to deteriorate,
and should, like any ripe crop, be harvested. There is no limit either high or low. In New
Mexico one contract for 1907 called for 50,000 feet and another for 10,000,000, and each was
made and carried out under the same conditions; little man and big both got the same square deal.

"But," cry some of the politicians with both eyes upon the political barometer, "the Forest
Service, in selling lumber by such methods, is playing into the hands of the Lumber Trust and
boosting prices."

What are these methods? If a citizen wants to buy some saw-logs for his mill, he goes to the
nearest forest officer and states his case, indicating where the timber lies that he wishes
to cut. A careful survey and cruise of the timber is then made by experienced and competent
men trained especially for that work. If they report favorably upon the cutting, a minimum
price is set at which the timber will be sold, and the sale is duly advertised for thirty days,
if it amounts to more than one hundred dollars in value. If it comes to less, the forest officer
on the ground makes the sale without delay. When the bids are opened, the highest bidder gets
the timber.

There is seldom much competition on the small lots, but the large tracts are frequently bid
up to very much more than the minimum price set by the forest expert. In New Mexico, for instance,
several large sales were made in 1907, where the keen competition ran the price up from three
dollars, set by the Service, to five and six dollars a thousand. Surely this was not playing
into the hands of the Lumber Trust.

"Two Blades of Grass Where One Grew Before"

Moreover, when the buyers come to cut, the ranger marks each tree, leaving out all those below
a certain size for future growth, and also a certain number for seed purposes, that reproduction
may follow. Again, the buyers are required to cut the stumps low, generally at a height equal
to the diameter. Under old methods they cut them off high up, where it was easier for the ax
and saw men to work, thus leaving in the stump a waste equal to more than ten per cent. of
the measured value of the tree. "Two blades of grass" here surely!

Under the old methods, if the logs had to be "snaked" out, the loggers took the shortest cut,
and if that cut led through a dense thicket of young trees, the logs were dragged through them,
so that millions of young trees were destroyed each year by this recklessness alone. To-day
the ranger sees to it that they go around such little groves, or, if it is absolutely unavoidable,
a straight and narrow way is cut through them to which the loggers must keep, thus reducing
the damage to the minimum. "Two blades of grass" here also.

In the old days of reckless lumbering only the best of the tree was used. A single log was
taken, and the rest left to waste. Now the watchful "scaler" sees to it that the logs are cut
with judgment, so as to utilize every foot of saw timber.

When the logging is finished on a tract, according to the government contract, the brush must
be carefully piled by the lumberman far enough away from other trees or young stuff to cause
no damage when it is burned by the rangers. Under the early methods the "slashings," as cut-over
areas were called, were an almost impassable mass of dead tree-tops and logs, a most fruitful
and dangerous source and auxiliary of forest fires.

The Forest Service and the Stock-Raisers

The only remaining class opposed to the policy of the Forest Service is that composed of the
stock-raisers; and for their interests and welfare the Forest Service has worked harder than
for all the other users of the forests combined.

That mistakes were made in handling the livestock interests; that in some cases individuals
were unduly hampered with rules enforced by over-zealous forest officers, is not to be denied.
It was a huge task. Almost in a day the Forest Service sprang full-fledged into the world,
charged with the care and responsibilities of more than a hundred million acres; to-day it
controls a third of the area of grazing country in the United States, whereon graze about eight
million sheep and a million and a half cattle and horses.

Trained foresters there were to be had in plenty, but men who knew the stockman's trade, whose
training fitted them to handle the vexatious questions of range divisions, over-grazing, and
relative injury done by cattle, sheep, and goats, were hard to find, and when found were not
willing to enter the Service for the niggardly pay allowed by the government. However, the
Forest Service, with its ranger system, is to-day training up a class of young men, who, in
a few years, will be at once expert lumbermen, scientific foresters, and excellent all-round
frontiersmen and stockmen.

In this work there have been no precedents to follow, no rules to look to for guidance. Instead,
rules must be made and tested through use; precedents must be established and certain fundamental
principles worked out and made a basis for future government.

Further than this, every section has its own necessities. Rules that would apply to Oregon
and Washington, with their sixty inches of rainfall a year, would not apply to Arizona, with
its ten. One great mountain region, whose waters drained off into the ocean and could never
be used for irrigating purposes, might safely be let open to all kinds of grazing; while another
equally large section, just as well grassed, would have to be closed to sheep and goats, with
their erosive little feet and habits of grazing in large bands, because all the drainage went
into creeks, streams, and rivers that lower down on the desert were needed to irrigate vast
areas of valuable farming lands.

The Roosevelt Dam Case

Take a single case: that of one national forest in Arizona. At the upper end of this forest--which
is a long, narrow tract covering a great mountain chain--rise two or three streams; on the
eastern slope, the Rio Verde and the Salt River, on the western, the Agua Fria. A hundred miles
below these heads the government is building, at a cost of more than $4,000,000, the great
Roosevelt Dam which will furnish water to irrigate 250,000 acres of the richest of soils around
the city of Phoenix in the Salt River valley. One of the most serious problems in the construction
of the great dams in the West is the question of silt, which is washed down in the streams
and will eventually fill up and render useless these expensive dams and reservoirs.

Careful studies of silt prove beyond doubt that its primal cause is the removal of the forest
cover, such as underbrush, weeds, and grasses, along the streams, which allows the rainfall
to run off rapidly. The grazing over these areas by sheep and goats not only exhausts this
forest cover, but from the cutting up of the soil and the loosening effect of the thousands
of tiny hoofs, the erosive action of the rain becomes disastrous. The wash of the hills and
mountain-sides carries with it into the streams tons and tons of silt to fill up the dams and
beds of the streams, as well as working irreparable injury to the comparatively thin soil covering
the mountains.

On this national forest the watershed on the eastern side all runs into streams which eventually
reach the Roosevelt Dam; on the western slope the water runs unused to the Gulf of California.
So the National Reclamation Service, charged with the building and maintenance of these huge
reservoirs, said to the Forest Service: "The watershed of the Roosevelt Dam must be protected
from over-grazing, so that the forest cover may be preserved, and the deposit of silt reduced
to the very lowest possible percentage."

The Forest Service whose duty it was under the law to protect and preserve, not only the timber
of the mountains, but the water supply as well, had no alternative but to say to the sheep
and goat men using this area: "You cannot longer graze sheep or goats upon the eastern side
of this forest, but may do so on the western slope." But since cattle do much less damage than
sheep, in order that the grazing may not go entirely unused, the Service allows cattle to graze
there in such numbers as will not injure the watershed.

Naturally the sheep owners set up a cry that could be heard from Dan to Beersheba. But an analysis
of the situation shows that while some fifty individual sheep men, owning probably 100,000
sheep valued at about $300,000, were forced to rearrange their business to meet the new conditions,
their loss was overwhelmingly offset by the benefit to the entire population of the Salt River
valley, a population to-day of not fewer than 50,000 people, every soul of whom is absolutely
dependent upon the agricultural lands of the valley for a living; these lands consisting of
more than 100,000 acres, valued at an average of sixty dollars an acre, already under cultivation,
with 150,000 acres more ready to be cultivated the instant the Roosevelt Dam is finished.

Irrigation Revolutionized by National Forestry

Surely such conditions fully justify the Forest Service in its course of pursuing the greatest
good for the greatest number. In Colorado a small number of stock men, principally cattle owners,
aided and abetted by a few political malcontents, have attempted to discredit the Forest Service,
but no one has heard a word against the Service from the thousands of contented irrigationists,
who, with countless acres to be watered by more than 12,000 miles of irrigation ditches, see
their source of water supply amply protected, and realize that already the supply has increased
and the flow is more regular than it has been in the past.

In the great Kern River district about Bakersfield in southern California, a careful measurement
shows that since the restrictions on grazing in the mountains at the heads of the streams,
together with the almost complete absence of forest fires, the flow of water in the great canal
system has become fully twenty per cent. greater in volume than ever before. And so one could
go on without end, if necessary, for all over the West are smaller or larger areas wholly dependent
upon the rivers and streams for their water supply, and to them the Forest Service guarantees
full protection for their lands and homes.

The Free Grass Question

The range stockmen of to-day are in much the same position as the reservation Indian. The tides
of civilization, advancing from east and west, have met and threaten to overwhelm them. Like
the Indian they must meet the new conditions with new methods. They must not, and need not,
be overwhelmed, but can be assimilated in the new order of things. The day of free grass in
the State of Texas came to an end twenty years ago. The old-timers shook their heads and prophesied
all sorts of dire happenings to the State. To-day Texas has more cattle and sheep, and better
ones, too, than ever before, and they are still growing in numbers.

A convention of stockmen was held at Denver in 1898, at which the burning question was the
then new plan of forest reserves. The sheep men from Wyoming, Utah, and one or two other Western
States, declared with a bitterness born of conviction that if the government made any forest
reserves in their States it would mean the total annihilation of the sheep industry there.
To-day these States are plastered with national forests, and each has three or four times as
many sheep as it had ten years ago.

There has arisen, of course, from the men who have used these government lands without money
and without price, a continuous cry that the grazing fees the Forest Service collects are "illegal,
unjust and double taxation," The complaint, of course, will not bear analysis. The land belongs,
not to the stockmen, but to the whole people. Why should the government give something to a
stockman in Wyoming, that belongs equally to a stockman in Ohio, who is raising live stock
on private land, in keen competition with Western free grass men?

The fees are scarcely illegal. If the government can sell one man one hundred acres of public
land, it certainly can sell another man the grass and forage crop produced upon any portion
of the public lands. One is no more a case of merchandizing than the other. As for the double
taxation argument, that too is equally childish, because the grazing fee is not a tax but the
price of a commodity.

As a matter of fact, the government spends annually, in trail and road building through the
forests, that the stock may more easily and safely reach the higher grazing areas, in fighting
the fires, in building telephone lines to the very remotest corners of the forests, in hiring
hunters to exterminate the wolves and other wild animals that prey upon the stockman's herds,
in digging deep wells and erecting windmills and other pumping engines to furnish water where
there is none on the surface, a sum almost equal to the entire amount paid in fees by the stockmen,
and all for their sole benefit and use.

The total amount of fees paid by stockmen in the year 1907 amounted to $836,920. If the lands
were under private control, the fees would be more than double what they now are. In New Mexico,
for instance, the usual price for pasturing cattle upon the large land grants is from two dollars
to three dollars a year, while on the government forests immediately adjoining the grant, and
almost the same country, the fee is only seventy-five cents a year per head and twenty-five
cents per head for sheep. And these are the highest fees charged on any national forest for
all-the-year-round grazing permits. In Colorado, California, Nevada, and Arizona, the charge
for sheep or cattle grazing on the large areas of railroad and State lands is on an average
fully twice as great as the same fees upon the national forest, and in the former the stockmen
get no other return from the land owners.

The last and loudest wail was that these "great areas of segregated lands," as the protestants
love to call the national forests, were a barrier to the settler and homesteader; that the
Forest Service was making vast areas of forest solitudes in the heart of the Western States.

To this the Forest Service replied by throwing open to agricultural settlement every acre of
land, lying within the limits of the national forests, which was more suitable for agriculture
than forest culture. Six thousand new homes were selected in the different forests in the year
1907, and with vastly less red tape and delay than under the regular homestead laws now in
force upon other public lands.

If the Forest Service had done no more than keep down the fire losses, their work would not
have been in vain. In 1901 the total area burned over in the government forests equalled 2-3/4
acres in every thousand, while in 1907 the burned area was only 9/10 of an acre in every thousand.
No record of the money value of the earlier fire losses was kept, but that the loss ran into
the millions, no one who has seen the miles of burned over tracts can doubt.

The following table shows the fire losses in the national forests for the past three years:

  Year        Area of         Acres       Value of
              Forests      Burned Over  Timber Burned

  1905       85,627,000      279,592      $101,282
  1906      106,999,000      115,416        76,183
  1907      164,154,000      212,850        31,589

That is, in 1905 the loss from fire was more than three times as great as in the year 1907,
with an area of forests almost twice as great to protect and control.

$1,000,000 Saved by the Forest Hunters

Another important feature of Mr. Pinchot's work is the employment of experienced hunters for
killing wild animals which destroy stock. In the year 1907, according to records kept of all
predatory animals killed upon the various national forests, or on lands adjoining them, no
fewer than 1600 wolves, 19,469 coyotes, 265 mountain lions, 368 bears, and 2285 wild cats and
lynxes were killed by the various hunters and settlers. Of these, it is probably fair to credit
the rangers and the hunters employed by the Forest Service with at least one-fourth.

Now, any well-posted stockman will tell you that, on an average, a full-grown wolf will destroy
one thousand dollars' worth of stock every year of its life. Mountain lions prefer horses to
any other food, but still they will put up with calves and sheep. They, too, are easily chargeable
with a thousand dollars' worth of damage each year. The coyotes, bob-cats, and lynxes do less
harm, and that mostly to sheep. Yet I think it is a very conservative estimate to say that
each coyote or lynx annually destroys stock to the value of fully one hundred dollars.

Taking these figures as a basis for comparison, it is very easily seen that the value of the
animals killed by the Forest Service men is more than $1,000,000. Hence, so far as return for
their $836,920 in grazing fees is concerned, the stockmen get it back in full and with some
to spare.

CHIEF KITSAP, FINANCIER

BY

JOSEPH BLETHEN

ILLUSTRATED WITH PHOTOGRAPHS

When young Johnny Kitsap, having made up his mind that his clerkship in the reservation agency
did not offer the chance of advancement to which the son of a Puyallup chief and a graduate
of Carlisle was entitled, applied for work to the President of the Elliott Bay National Bank,
it was not an act of such presumption as some might suppose. No one, to be sure, when he saw
the high cheek-bones, wiry black hair brushed pompadour, dull brown eyes, and copper complexion,
could possibly have been deceived by Johnny's well-cut clothes, clean linen, and good English.
Nor did Johnny affect these things as a disguise or as signifying that, in adopting the apparel
and speech of the white man, he had renounced his nationality--had, to all intents and purposes,
become a dead Indian. Quite to the contrary, what secured Johnny his position in the bank was
precisely that, besides having a pleasant manner and civilized ways, he was so manifestly an
exceptionally live Indian.

The Elliott Bay National's famous line of "red paper" had paid from the start. When, some years
before, the proposition to loan old Peter Coultee, a full blood of the Puyallup reservation,
was laid before the directors, they had laughed, but, like true Western men, they wanted to
know the details. What they learned was that old Peter Coultee owned one hundred and sixty
acres of fine reservation land, well stocked and highly cultivated; that his crop of hops was
fast ripening; that he needed money to pay the hop-pickers of his own tribe; and that hop-house
receipts in the White River Valley were as good as wheat receipts in the Palouse. This put
the matter in other, at least, than a sneering light, and one of the laughing directors offered
to visit the reservation and make a full report. The result was that old Peter Coultee got
his loan, and that this turned out to be the first of many others, both to himself and to his
tribesmen, and all of much mutual profit alike to white man and red.

When, accordingly, Johnny Kitsap did the Elliott National the honor of preferring its employment
to that of the government, the president did not laugh, but, with all due formality, laid his
application before the board, and suggested that a bank which loaned money to Indians might
in time find it convenient to have a clerk who could interpret not only the language of the
Siwash customers, but the more subtle emotions of the Indian heart. And so Johnny came by his
job, and the bank had as little cause to regret it as the first loan to old Peter Coultee,
which was the original cause of it.

To the young Indian, the bank became a magic house. The brass-barred windows before the tellers;
the wire cages; the tiled floors; the great doors of the vault, with the tick-tick-tick of
the time locks; all seemed to him to be parts of a powerful chieftain's house. The vault itself,
with its store of gold and currency, and its cabinet of mysterious treaties, which the tyee
made with the busy white men, filled him with awe. This was the white man's magic treasure-chest,
wherein money bred money. No one bought or sold, so far as he could see, yet this treasure-chest
paid salaries, distributed profits, and always continued full. With his imagination thus enlisted
in firing his work with the zest of play, it is no wonder that he proved an apt pupil and in
a rapidly flying trio of years had filled various positions and had earned high appreciation.

With his entrance upon the duties of collection clerk, Kitsap became the credit man on all
"red paper." Every bit of Indian business received the approval of the Chief before the discount
committee would act upon it. Thus the young Indian became surely, even if indirectly, a power
on the reservation, where the tribal leaders regarded him as being at heart a white man and
continued to address him quizzingly as Italapas (The Coyote That Wanders). Kitsap maintained
a modest room in Seattle, enjoyed the privileges of an athletic club, owned a one-twentieth
interest in a yacht, and, out on the reservation, kept a cayuse in father Kitsap's corral and
a suit of Indian finery in father Kitsap's house. Thus he zigzagged across the borderland of
civilization and led a most picturesque, but strictly honorable, double life.

Kitsap had been four years in the bank when three hop-buyers from St. Louis attempted to raid
the White River hop fields in advance of picking and to buy the entire crop of the valley at
fourteen cents a pound. The raid had progressed far towards success when Kitsap accidentally
heard of it.

The Indian hop-growers of the reservation had made their fall estimates, Kitsap had inspected
their fields and approved their items, and some ten thousand dollars in "red paper" was entered
on the books of the Elliott Bay National Bank, the loans to be secured by the warehouse receipts
on hops. Kitsap had spent the first Sunday of the picking on the reservation, greeting friends
who had come on their annual pilgrimage to the hop fields from other reservations; and early
on Monday morning he was on the way to take a train for Seattle, when Peter Coultee's cayuse
overtook him, bearing Peter Coultee's oldest son.

"Good morning, Italapas. Is your bank short of money?" called the young Indian, with enough
dire suggestion in his tone to start a Wall Street panic.

Kitsap faced his questioner. "It has more gold than the son of Coultee can count," he retorted
sharply.

"Then why is Lamson, who owns the largest fields of all the white men in the valley, saying
that the bank will not loan him enough to pay the pickers?"

Lamson, who was wealthy, as ranchers go, was a heavy client of the Elliott Bay National, but,
since he was a white man, his accounts were unknown to Kitsap. The bank clerk was thus taken
at a disadvantage and could not give a direct answer. But, desiring to learn what he could,
he bantered the younger Indian to talk on, and listened carefully, that his words might be
carried to the cashier.

"Lamson is paying two picking tickets out of every three in cash; for the third ticket he gives
an order on the stores in the village. When the pickers complain, he laughs and says that the
bank has loaned the Indians so much that it cannot lend him the little he needs. Peter Coultee
sends word to you: Let Italapas run to the bank and count the gold." Then the younger Indian
smiled suggestively, whirled his cayuse, and rode away.

Kitsap was troubled by young Coultee's words. Not that any thought of weakness in the Elliott
Bay National entered his mind; but he felt at once that such a report, if allowed to circulate
undenied, would be harmful to the magic treasure-chest. He was all nerves when he reported
to the cashier.

As soon as the president arrived, the cashier went to him with the report. Together they reviewed
Lamson's account, and decided that no danger was to be found there. Lamson's hops were being
delivered to a warehouse, and the warehouse receipts were being delivered to the bank as security
for the hop-gathering loan. All this was regular and customary. But Lamson's motive in making
such talk disturbed the president. He sent for Kitsap to question him.

Never before had the young red man been called into a conference with the president. He felt
both proud and alarmed at the incident. When told the facts, Kitsap was greatly relieved, but
he could suggest no motive for Lamson's story. He volunteered to visit the valley in an endeavor
to ascertain the facts. The suggestion pleased the president, who at once ordered it put into
effect.

"I suppose," said the gray-headed president, "that you will enjoy this scouting expedition
all the more because you are on the trail of a white man. But while I am going to trust to
your own good sense and your knowledge of your people in running this lie right back to the
man who fathered it, I want to caution you to play well inside the rules of the game.

"Now, you are out to hit the trail of that lie and chase it home. When you have corralled it,
let me know what company it is keeping and I will tell you what to do next. Lamson has been
a good client and this lie may run away from him. If so, we must not offend him and thus lose
his account. But if it hikes home to his ranch house, then I want to know what he is doing,
and the nearer he is related to this rumor, the quicker we shall cash his hop receipts and
cancel his note.

"If you find it necessary to use the bank's authority, then come out strong as ambassador plenipotentiary
and read the stiffest kind of a bluff to your man in the name of the Elliott Bay National Bank.
Talk as little as possible about the bank; but when you do talk, make every man jealous of
your connection with the institution. A conservative remark may bring a new customer to our
books; a flippant word may go into business for itself and start a run that no bank could weather.
Now get at it, and let us hear something from you by day after to-morrow."

Scout! The president himself had said it! The Indian's blood thrilled with his commission.
His voice shook a little in its attempt to be very, very steady as he telephoned out to the
reservation station for a saddle-horse. Then he ran for the five o'clock south-bound train.

At eight o'clock Kitsap arrived at the reservation. On all sides were the lights among the
camps, where the hop-pickers were making merry. More than one group hailed him as he passed,
demanding to know if he had come out from town to dance, to gamble, or to see a maid. But he
had replied to each in kind and pressed on to his father's house. Kitsap the elder greeted
his son in the native tongue.

"Huh! Is The Coyote still prowling?"

"The Coyote hunts big game for his tyee, my father. Let The Coyote's horse be cared for till
he returns."

Then Kitsap, the bank clerk, decked himself as an Indian should and as The Coyote went forth
to listen at many camp-fires and to hear what tales were telling there. Till far into the night
he prowled, learning what families of Indians were picking for Lamson, what form Lamson's bank
story was taking, and to what store the orders were sent for redemption. The fires were low
and the valley was still when he sought his father's house and slept.

The next morning he resumed the dress of the white man. It was a day spent in the saddle. He
rode from store to store, from ranch to ranch and warehouse to warehouse, the length and breadth
of the valley, questioning, listening, brisk, businesslike, and polite, in all respects the
decorous representative of the white man's bank. Yet, as he stood that evening at the white
man's telephone, and recounted to his cashier the facts he had learned, the gleam in his eyes
and the pride in his heart were those of the young red warrior who has tracked his foe and
makes report to the high chiefs of his tribe. He concluded by asking his cashier to telegraph
to St. Louis and the other hop markets and ascertain the probable trend of hops, and telephone
him in the morning.

And then Kitsap, the clerk, donned the tribal finery of his ancestors and again The Coyote
prowled among the camp-fires. At each he dropped a faggot for thought:

"Lamson, the biggest hop rancher in the valley, is buying hops at fourteen cents and paying
his pickers with store orders. That's why he lied about the bank."

The pickers buzzed the news about the fires till the overseers heard it; the overseers bore
the tale to the ranchers; the ranchers went to their telephones and set the tale to flashing.
In the morning, when the valley rose to resume picking, Lamson's raid was in cold type in the
Seattle papers and at eight o'clock Lamson himself read it. Then he realized that the pool
had been betrayed, and he went on the war-path to find the mysterious Indian.

Kitsap rose late, and loitered about, gossiping with the idle, till ten o'clock. Then he called
up the bank. The cashier had received a wire from the East.

"Hops opened in St. Louis at sixteen cents, Milwaukee sixteen cents, Cincinnati seventeen cents,"
said the cashier over the telephone. "Crop reports indicate light yield abroad and heavy demand
on American hops. Rise in price certain. I have asked a Seattle broker to cable Liverpool.
The president says to spread the news and call me again at four o'clock."

Then Kitsap mounted his own spotted cayuse and rode from ranch to ranch till every Indian planter
on the reservation had heard his news:

"The biyu tyee of the money house sends greetings. Hops are seventeen cents and going up."

At four o'clock Kitsap was once more at the telephone, and received a message from the cashier
which sent his heart pounding in his throat for very enthusiasm.

"I have sent you an important letter by express on the three o'clock train," said the cashier.
"Get it and read what I have written. Stay as long as you need to, but smash that pool, and
teach Lamson not to lie about the Elliott Bay National."

Then Kitsap waited for the train, secured his express package, and opened it. It contained
a letter from Lamson to the bank--a letter that was ammunition for the Indian--and instructions
to make certain use of it.

He could make no more progress indirectly; he must face the raiders, or his own people would
doubt him. He must seek out Lamson, and standing in front of that white man, the Indian must
throw back into his teeth that lie about the bank. The warm red blood in him yearned for a
clash and a tussle. He would go to the store to spend the evening. If a collision with the
fourteen-cent raiders was to be effected anywhere, the store would afford it.

To the store that night came Lamson and the St. Louis buyers, all in evil mood. Kitsap's news
had completely arrested the effect of their pessimistic talk. No rancher would sell at fourteen
cents with a bank's messenger rioting over the valley quoting hops in Liverpool at eighteen
cents. Indeed, those who had already contracted to sell were grumbling, and many of them came
to the store that night, eager to hear the truth of a market which had been misrepresented
to them. These men were listening to Kitsap, whose words put them in a very sullen temper,
when Lamson and the three buyers entered.

"So you're the Injun who's been going around bulling the market," shouted Lamson, his voice
keyed high with temper. He stepped quickly into the crowd of ranchers about Kitsap, conscious
that he must rout the Indian or see the end of the pool.

The young Indian faced the irate rancher and looked him coolly up and down. This was Lamson;
the heaviest owner of land in the valley. This was the white man who had lied about the Elliott
Bay National. The meeting for which he had hoped had come. The Indian drew a deep breath of
sheer delight. Then, in a clear, ringing tone, he returned the white man's fire:

"So you are the rancher who lied about the Elliott Bay National Bank?"

The blood leaped to the rancher's temples and he stepped menacingly toward the Indian. But
before he could strike, Kitsap's voice again rang out:

"You are a double liar! You borrowed money to pay pickers, but used it to buy hops at fourteen
cents, after telling the ranchers that you had sold. That was the first lie. You told the Indians
that the bank would not loan you enough to pay them. That was another lie. But the bank has
found you out!"

The rancher stood speechless before the unexpected words of the Indian. The clenched fist fell
to his side. The young man who stood there before him, with the straight proud poise of the
savage chieftain, spoke the words of the white man's warfare, the warfare of the mart and of
barter. He must be met and beaten on his own ground. Clearly, he had spoken to effect, and
the rancher must justify his position before his fellow ranchers, whose eyes were so intently
watching him.

"You seem to know a lot about the bank's business," he began, with an attempt at sarcasm. "I
suppose the president consults you on loans."

"The president did on this one," replied the Indian. The ranchers laughed.

"Then perhaps he told you that this one was amply secured by my hop receipts," boasted Lamson.

"He did."

"Then what the bloomin' ---- is it to him what I do with the cash?"

"He sent me to give you back that lie about the bank."

"Well"----

"I have. I called you a liar, and then proved it. Your name is--Two Lies!"

Lamson's color came back, but this time it was the color of anger. His hand went half-way to
his revolver, but a broad-shouldered rancher caught his arm.

"None o' that, Lamson."

Lamson wrenched his arm away. The big rancher faced him.

"This here Kitsap is telling the truth," said he. "I reckon he's got still more of it to give
us. And we will expect you to fish or cut bait. But I'll hold this." Then he clapped his hand
on Lamson's gun pocket and disarmed him. The three St. Louis hop buyers looked wistfully toward
the door. But prudence held them to the spot.

"You are making a big fuss over nothing," sputtered Lamson. "Whose business is it if I do buy
hops? The bank is secured on its loan."

"It's our business a whole lot," said the big rancher, gently tapping the handle of Lamson's
revolver on Lamson's chest. "You give out that you are selling hops at fourteen cents and advise
a lot of us fellows to do the same. Now we're told that you've been buyin' at fourteen cents.
It's our business to find out which end up you're playin' this market."

"Oh, rot!" roared Lamson. "Hops are fourteen cents now. I'm buying a few to hold 'em. If I
can afford to take the risk, I'm entitled to the profit."

"The bank knows that hops are eighteen cents to-day," broke in Kitsap.

"That's another lie," yelled the enraged Lamson, and the ranchers laughed at the unconscious
admission.

"Is it?" said Kitsap quietly. "Do you dare to bet on it?"

"I'll bet you a hundred dollars," roared the rancher, "that you can't get over fourteen cents
for hops in this valley this fall."

"I will bet you that amount that I can get at least sixteen cents for the Indians on the reservation."

"Where's your money?" said Lamson, drawing out a roll of bills.

Kitsap had not looked for this. He was puzzled for a moment. Then he drew forth a pocket check-book,
signed a check, and handed it to an Indian rancher, who endorsed it. Turning to Lamson, Kitsap
said:

"Will this do, or shall I telephone the cashier to assure its payment?"

"It's good," said Lamson.

"Very well. But if you are so sure about the price of hops, Mr. Two Lies, why don't you make
it two to one that I can't get seventeen cents?"

"That's my money!" and Lamson began counting out another hundred.

"Or three to one that I can't get eighteen cents?"

"It goes!"

"Or four to one that I can't get nineteen cents?"

"Yes; or five to one that you can't get twenty," roared the exasperated planter.

"Five to one," replied Kitsap. "And if I win, I will throw your money in silver from the steps
of the reservation school to the Indian children."

Kitsap noted the effect on the Indians in the room as the money was placed in the hands of
the town marshal. He knew how every red man on the reservation would work for twenty-cent hops now.

But the Indian was not through with the white man. He turned on him again.

"If you think the bank lied when it said eighteen cents, there is a telephone. Call up the
cashier at his home. He sent me here to tell the white men and Indians who are our clients.
Ask him for yourself."

Lamson and the three buyers noted the words "Our clients." To Lamson it brought identification
of the Indian as Johnny Kitsap, the clerk; to the buyers it was just mysterious enough to be
alarming.

"Confound the cashier! All he knows is what somebody else has told him."

"Mr. Lamson, do you yourself think that fourteen cents for hops to-day is a fair price?" asked
Kitsap, suddenly taking a conciliatory tone.

"Certainly I do. But if I want to buy hops at fourteen cents now and hold them on a speculation,
it's my own business."

"Entirely," said the Indian. "But I believe your conduct with the ranchers who have agreed
to sell is based on your statement that you had already sold your own hops to these buyers
from St. Louis for fourteen cents."

"That's right," said Lamson boldly. "I can sell my hops for what I like."

"Liar," said Kitsap, "you have not sold your hops."

Lamson sprang to his feet, but the big rancher put out a big hand and shoved him back.

"Sit down," said the big man. "Can't you see this here Kitsap's got the floor?"

"As I understand it," continued Kitsap, turning to the men who had signed the contract to sell
to the raiders, "unless Mr. Lamson has already delivered his hops to the buyers under his contract,
the very agreement is void, and you are all released."

"You bet your life that's right," said the big man with the gun, and from all parts of the
crowd came words of confirmation.

Lamson, for the first time during the encounter, felt uneasy. He looked blankly at the three
buyers. One of the gentlemen from St. Louis drew the contract from his pocket.

"The young man is right," said the gentleman from St. Louis, in a conciliatory tone. "Here
is the contract, and I can safely assure our friends that Mr. Lamson has carried out his part
of the agreement."

"You bet," shouted Lamson, recognizing a very pretty bluff on the part of the buyer.

"May I see the contract?" asked Kitsap.

The buyer passed it to him. Kitsap read the contract aloud, and then tossed it over his head
into the hands of the men who had signed it. The buyers and Lamson came to their feet.

"Worthless paper," said Kitsap. "Lamson has not delivered his hop receipts and therefore there
is no contract."

A yell of delight went up from the crowd, and a shower of tiny bits of white papers showed
the fate of the instrument. Kitsap pointed his finger at the enraged Lamson, and as the shower
of paper fell about him fairly shouted his denunciation:

"I, Kitsap, the clerk, am a representative of the Elliott Bay National Bank. I come here by
the orders of the tyee--the president. Your hop receipts are in the bank's treasure-chest,
and here is your letter received at the bank last Monday." Kitsap opened the letter that had
come to him by express and read:

    Picking is progressing well, and the valley will yield a big
    crop. A few hungry ranchers are selling at fourteen cents cash
    at the warehouse, but I look for better prices later. I hope you
    will be willing to carry my receipts till November, when I look
    for a price close to twenty cents.

As Kitsap read, his voice rose, and, as he ended, there was absolute silence for an instant.
Then the ranchers took their spellbound eyes from the quivering Indian and looked at the pale
face of the speechless Lamson. The store-keeper looked with the others, and it was his groan
that broke the spell:

"Thunder! I stood to make a thousand on the deal."

Then the overjoyed ranchers found their voices in a wild laugh, and laid enthusiastic hands
on Kitsap. Lamson and the buyers slipped away, beaten and humiliated, to lament the failure
of the fourteen-cent raid, and to spend a few bitter hours in planning a new offer next morning
at a better price, for there was need to cover promises made to Eastern houses.

The ranchers quickly formed themselves into a meeting and sent couriers out to notify all signers
of the contract that the deal was off. Then they appointed a committee to go to the bank next
day with Kitsap and be witnesses to his report to his superiors.

Before another day passed, the spirit of the valley had changed from a desire to sell quickly
for cash into a determination to hold the crop for a twenty-cent market. The Elliott Bay National
secured daily bulletins from inside sources and kept the world's markets before the entire
valley. Picking progressed to an end, and the Indians held their last feast and departed. Then
buyers came from other markets, inspected the crop, and made offers. Gradually the valley ranchers
joined the lead of the reservation Indians and placed their receipts with the Elliott Bay National,
to be held for a rise and sold as near twenty cents as possible. The cashier sent East for
a prominent broker, who replied that he would arrive by the Sound in mid-October. Then the
other buyers began bulling the market, hoping to induce a rancher here and there to sell and,
by thus breaking the ranks, run prices down. But Kitsap, on the ground, and the cashier, in
the bank, were able to hold them together till the new broker arrived.

The new man was business from the ground up. He knew where he could sell hops, and for what
price. He inspected the valley crop of hops and frankly announced his intention to pay twenty-one
cents. Then the other buyers rushed in to get a share, and the result was an agreement by which
the new broker got half the crop at twenty-one cents and the late lamented fourteen-cent raiders
divided the other half among themselves at twenty-three cents, the money to be distributed
through the Elliott Bay National to all ranchers at the average of twenty-two cents.

Kitsap telephoned the news to the reservation, and the priest sent the son of Peter Coultee
on his spotted cayuse to ride into the village with the news. DeQuincey's Royal Mail with the
news of Waterloo did not create more enthusiasm than the Indian's triumphant shout. As he dashed
along he yelled to the white men:

"Hops sold at twenty-two cents!"

To the Indian ranchers he called out the same news in the jargon:

"Hops marsh mox-taltum-tee-mox."

Down the street he rode, yelling and winning yells in return. The news spread from street to
street, men carried it into the valley, and that night many a heart among the ranches beat
quicker and many a voice at the firesides murmured the name of "Kitsap."

The town marshal made the trip to Seattle and delivered the six-hundred-dollar wager to Kitsap.
The Indian told the cashier the terms of the wager and asked to be excused on the following
Saturday, that he might assemble the reservation children and scatter the Lamson money.

"It will be a great event to them," said Kitsap. "I shall take all of Lamson's five hundred
dollars in dimes, and the whole reservation will come out to see the fun."

The cashier granted the leave of absence gladly.

"If you will hold the event in the afternoon, I think the president would be pleased to go
out and see it," said he.

Kitsap needed no other hint, but went boldly to the president and invited him to witness the
scattering of the coins.

"With pleasure," replied the president.

"Come on the three o'clock train, and I will have a carriage for you," said Kitsap.

The reservation had been waiting for twenty-cent hops as a band of children wait for the circus.
Five thousand dimes to be thrown to less than three hundred children! It would be a rare scramble.
Indian children raided their mothers' button-baskets that they might throw the buttons in the
sand and practise scrambling for them. Then came the news of twenty-two cent hops, and every
Indian, young or old, jumped up and down and shouted that Kitsap had won that Lamson money.

"Saturday afternoon at four o'clock," was Kitsap's message to the reservation priest, and the
priest assembled ten young men for a conference. It was decided to mark off ten squares on
the lawn in front of the schoolhouse. On each square a squad of thirty children should stand,
the children of each squad graded so as to be nearly of a size, girls and boys in alternate
squares. Before each square one of the ten young men should stand with five hundred silver
coins in a dish. At a signal from Kitsap, who should stand on the school steps, the ten young
men should throw the dimes in the air and the scramble would begin.

When the train stopped at the reservation station that October afternoon, the president of
the Elliott Bay National found Kitsap the elder there to meet him, with a clean spring wagon.
During the short drive to the reservation school, he noted that the road was deserted, but
when the school was reached a scene of color and animation met his eye. The tribe was out in
full regalia, even the clients of the bank, who came gravely to the president's wagon to greet
him. Kitsap the elder drove to a spot reserved for the head men of the tribe, and the chief
of the money-house was welcomed to a place among them. Then a hush fell upon the assembly.

A procession of young men, headed by Kitsap, decked in tribal finery, came out of the schoolhouse.
Kitsap remained on the stairs, as the ten young men, bearing dishes of dimes, took their places
before the squares. Every child stood waiting--every grown person held his breath. The voice
of Kitsap, speaking each sentence first in the jargon and then in English, made a short harangue.
The president smiled as he caught this glimpse of Kitsap's own interpretation of a bank.

"Lamson, the white man, told a lie about the money-house. The great tyee of the treasure-chest
sent Kitsap, who is a brave of the white tyee's house, to tell the Puyallups the truth. The
Great Spirit made Lamson angry and caused him to lose this money to Kitsap, who serves the
great white tyee. But the great white tyee said: 'Behold, the Great Spirit has punished Lamson.
Forever will he be called Two Lies. The money shall be for the children, as Kitsap said. I
will go myself to see Kitsap throw the silver coins to the children, for it is a lesson. Let
them always speak true words, or the Great Spirit will punish them, and they will have an evil
name like Lamson!' And look, children, Kitsap's tyee sits with the tyee of the Puyallups to
see you scramble. Remember, keep on your own square and do not strike. Push and pull, but do
not strike. Show the white tyee who lives in the magic treasure-house that you can play your
games fairly. Then he will be pleased and tell his own people of the silver coins that Kitsap
throws to the children."

There was silence a moment, and then Kitsap raised a feathered wand. In the native tongue he
shouted:

"All ready? Throw!"

Ten lithe Indians threw their silver treasure into the air. Five thousand silver coins flashed
in the sun and fell in a sparkling shower on the heads of the tribal children. With one voice
the children screamed and sprang to the scramble; with one voice the Puyallup tribe roared
in glee; with one motion the tribal hats went into the air, and the president of the Elliott
Bay National yelled in his enthusiasm, pounded a red man on the back, waved a silk hat on high,
and became as one of these child-hearted aborigines.

Late that night, while the president sat at his club, hoarse but happy, and told what he had
seen, a band of Indians out on the reservation held a ceremony in a big tent. The rite was
as old as the tribal memory--the rite of formally adopting a chief--and a young man was declared
to have won a great fight, and to be worthy of a high place in the councils of the tribe. They
wanted to name him Chief Who-Made-The-Silver-Rain, but the young man replied that Chief Kitsap,
being his father's name, was good enough for him.

THE WAYFARERS

BY

MARY STEWART CUTTING

AUTHOR OF "LITTLE STORIES OF COURTSHIP," "LITTLE STORIES OF MARRIED LIFE," ETC.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY ALICE BARBER STEPHENS

XXIII

Justin was in Chicago--the fact was verified--and he would start for home on the morrow. There
seemed to be no details, save the comforting one that Billy Snow was with him. After that first
sharp immediate relief from suspense, Lois again felt its filminess settling down upon her.

Girard had gone back very early to the Snows' to breakfast. He talked to Lois by telephone,
but he did not come to the house; while Dosia, wrapped in an outward abstraction that concealed
a whirl within, went about her daily tasks, living over and over the scene of the night before.
The shattering of the pitcher seemed to have shattered something else. Once he had felt, then,
as she had done; once--so far away that night of disaster had gone, so long was it since she
had held that protecting hand in her dreams, that the touch brought a strange resurrection
of the spirit. She had an upwelling new sense of gratitude to him for something unexpressed,
some quality which she passionately revered, and which other men had not always used toward her.

"Oh, he's good, he's good!" she whispered to herself, with the tears blinding her, as she picked
up Redge's blocks from the floor. She felt Lawson's kisses on her lips, her throat--that cross
of shame that she held always close to her; George Sutton's fat face thrust itself leeringly
before her. How many girls have passages in their lives to which they look back with the shame
that only purity and innocence can feel! Yet the sense of Girard's presence before was as nothing
to her sense of it now--it blotted out the world. She saw him sitting alone in the dining-room,
with his head resting on his hand, the attitude informed with life. The turn of his head, the
shape of his hand, were insistent things. She saw him standing in front of her, long-limbed,
erect of mien. She saw--If she looked pale and inert, it was because that inner thought of
her lived so hard that the body was worn out with it.

Neither telegram nor any other message came from Justin, except the bare word that he had started
home. On the second morning, just as Lois had finished dressing, she heard the hall door open
and shut. She called, but cautiously, for fear of disturbing her baby, who had dropped off
to sleep again.

Justin was standing by the table, looking at the newspaper, as she entered the dining-room.
With a cry, she ran toward him. "Justin!"

He turned, and she put her arms around him passionately. He held her for a moment, and then
said, "You'd better sit down."

"But, Justin--oh, my dearest, how ill you look!" She clung to him. "Where have you been? Why
didn't you send me any word?"

"I've been to Chicago."

"Yes, yes, I know. Why did you go?"

"I don't know."

"You don't know?"

"Lois, will you give me some coffee?"

She poured out the cup with trembling hands, and sat while he took a swallow of the hot fluid,
still scanning the newspaper. At last she said:

"Aren't you going to tell me any more?"

"There isn't any more to tell. There's no use talking about it. I believe I had some idea of
selling the island when I went to Chicago, but I don't know how I got there. I didn't know
I was there until I woke up two nights ago at a little hotel away out on the West Side. Billy
pounded on the door, and said they told him I had been asleep for twenty-eight hours. I suppose
I was dead tired out. I don't want to speak of it again, Lois; it wasn't a particularly pleasant
thing to happen. Will you tell Mary to bring in the rest of the breakfast? I must catch the
eight-thirty train back into town. I thought you might be bothered, so I came out first. Where
are the children?"

"They are coming down now with Dosia," said his wife, helping Mary with the dishes. Redge ran
up to his father, hitting him jubilantly with a small stick which he held in his chubby hand,
and bringing irritated reproof down upon him at once; but Zaidee, her blue eyes open, her lips
parted over her little white teeth, slid into the arm outstretched for her, and stood there
leaning against "Daddy's" side, while he ate and drank hurriedly, with only one hand at his
disposal. Poor Lois could not help one pang of jealousy at being shut out, but she heroically
smothered it.

"Mr. Harker was here the evening before last; he brought me some money," she ventured at last.

"That was all right."

"And Mr. Girard was very kind; he stayed here all that night--until your message came."

"I hope you haven't been talking about this all over the place."

"No--oh, no," said Lois, driving back the tears at this causeless injury. "Mr. Leverich said
it was best not to. Nobody knows about your being away at all. You're not going now, Justin--without
even seeing baby?"

"I'll see him to-night when I come home," said Justin, rising. He kissed the children and his
wife hastily, but she followed him into the hall, standing there, dumbly beseeching, while
he brushed his hat with the hat-brush on the table, and then rummaged hastily as if for something
else.

"Here are your gloves, if that is what you are looking for," she said.

"Yes, thank you." He bent over and kissed her again, as if really seeing her for the first
time, with a whispered "Poor girl!" That momentary close embrace brought her a needed--oh,
so needed!--crumb of comfort. She who had hungered so insatiably for recognition could be humbly
thankful now for the two words that spoke of an inner bond.

But all day she could not get rid of that feeling of suspense that had been hers for five days
past; the strain was to end, of course, with Justin's return, but it had not ended--in some
sad, weighting fashion it seemed just to have begun. What was he so worried about? Was she
never to hear any more?

That night Girard came over, but with him was another visitor--William Snow. No sun could brown
that baby-fair skin of William's, but he had an indefinably large and Western air; the very
way in which he wore his clothes showed his independence. Dosia did not notice his swift, covert,
shamefaced glance at her when she came into the room where he was talking to Lois--his avoidance
of her the year before had dropped clear out of her mind; but his expression changed to one
of complacent delight as she ran to him instantly and clasped his arm with both hands to cry,
"Oh, Billy, Billy, I'm so glad to see you! I am so glad--I can't tell you how glad I am!"

"All right, Sweetness, you're not going to lose me again," said William encouragingly. "My,
but you do knock the spots out of those Western girls. Can't we go in the dining-room by ourselves?
I want to ask you to marry me before we talk any more."

"Yes, do," said Dosia, dimpling.

It was sweet to be chaffed, to be heedlessly young once more, to take refuge from all disconcerting
thoughts--from a new embarrassment--with Billy, in the corner of the other room, where she
sat in a low chair, and he dragged up an ottoman close in front of her. Through the open window
the scent of honeysuckle came in with the gloom.

"Oh, but you've grown pretty!" he said, his hands clasped over his knees, gazing at her. "That's
right, get pink--it makes you prettier. I like this slimpsy sort of dress you've got on; I
like that black velvet around your throat; I--have you missed me much?"

"No," said Dosia, with the old-time sparkle. "I've hardly thought of you at all. But I feel
now as if I had."

Billy nodded. "All right, I'll pay you up for that some day. Oh, Dosia, you may think I'm joking,
but I'm not! There have been days and nights when I've done nothing but plan the things I was
going to do and say to make you care for me--but they're all gone the moment I lay eyes on
you. I'll talk of whatever you like afterward, but I've got to say first"--Billy's voice, deep
and manly and confident, had yet a little shake in it--"that nobody is going to marry you but
me, and don't you forget it. I'm no kid any more." Something in his tone gave his words emphasis.
"I know how to look out for you better than any one else does."

"Dear Billy," said Dosia, touched, and resting her cheek momentarily against the rough sleeve
of his coat, "it's so good to have you back again."

Lois, who had been longing intolerably all day for evening to come, so that she could be alone
with her husband, sat in the drawing-room, trying to sew with nervous, trembling fingers, while
her husband, looking frightfully tired, and Bailey Girard smoked and talked--of all things
in the world!--of the relative merits of live or "spoon" bait in trolling, and afterward went
minutely into details of the manufacture of artificial lures for catching trout.

Those wasted "social" hours of non-interest, non-satisfaction, how long, how unbearably long,
they can seem! Lois' face twitched, as well as her fingers; she did not realize, as women often
do not, that to Justin this conversation, banal and irrelevant to any action of his present
life or his present anxiety, was like coming up from under-depths to breathe at a necessary
air-hole.

After five days of torturing, unexplained absence, to talk of nothing but fishing, as if his
life depended on it! Girard himself had wondered, but he accepted the position allotted to
him as a matter of course. He had thought, from Justin's manner to-day, that he was to know
something of his affairs; but if Justin did not choose to confide in him--that was all right.
Possibly the affairs were all right, too; they were none of his business, anyway.

Suddenly a word caught the ears of the two who were sitting in the dining-room.

"That was the kind Lawson Barr used when he went down on the Susquehanna. By the way, I hear
that he's dead."

Lawson! Dosia's face changed as if a whip had flicked across it, and then trembled back into
its normal quiet. William leaned a little nearer, his eyes curiously scanning her.

"Hadn't you heard before?"

"No; what?"

"He's dead."

"Lawson dead! Not Lawson?" Her dry lips illy formed the words.

"Yes, Dosia. Don't look like that--don't let them see in there, Girard is looking at you; turn
your face toward me. Leverich told us, coming up to-night. Lawson died a week ago."

"How?"

"Fell from his horse somewhere up in a canyon--he was drunk, I reckon. They found him twenty-four
hours afterward. The superintendent of the mines wrote to Leverich. He'd tried to keep pretty
straight out there, all but the drinking, I guess that was too much for him. It was the best
thing he could do--to die--as Girard says. Girard hates the very sound of his name."

"Oh," breathed Dosia painfully.

"The superintendent said that some of the miners chipped in to bury him, and the woman he boarded
with sent a pencil scrawl along with the superintendent's letter to say that she'd 'miss Mr.
Barr dreadful,'--that he'd get up and get the breakfast when she was sick, and 'the kids, they
thought the world of him.' She signed herself, 'A true mourner, Mrs. Wilson.'"

Lawson was dead!

Dosia sat there, her hand clasping Billy's sleeve as at first--something tangible to hold on
to. Her gaze had gone far beyond the room; even that haunting consciousness that Bailey Girard
was near her was but a far, hidden subconsciousness. She was out on a rocky slope beside a
dead body--Lawson, his head thrown back, those mocking, caressing eyes, those curving, passionate
lips, closed forever, the blood oozing from between his dark locks. As ever with poor Dosia,
there was that sharp, unbearable pang of self-reproach, of self-condemnation. Of what avail
her prayers, her belief in him, when he had died thus? Oh, she had not prayed enough. She had
not been good enough to be allowed to help; she had not believed hard enough. Perhaps it had
helped just a little--he had "tried to keep pretty straight, all but the drinking; that was
too much for him."

That covered some resistance in an underworld of which she knew nothing. Poor Lawson, who had
never had the right chance, whose youth had been poisoned at the start! In that grave where
he lay, drunkard and reveler, part of the youth of her, Dosia Linden,--once his promised wife,
to whom she had given herself in her soul,--must always lie too, buried with him; nothing could
undo that. To die so causelessly! But the miners had cared a little; he had been kind to a
woman and her little children--"the kids had thought the world of him"; she was "a true mourner,
Mrs. Wilson." Dosia imagined him cheeringly cooking for this poor, worn-out mother, carrying
the children from place to place as she had once seen him carry that little boy home from the
ball, long, long ago.

A strain from that unforgotten music came to her now, carrying her to the stars! Oh, not for
Lawson the splendid rehabilitation of the strong, except in that one moment of denial when
he had risen by the might of his manhood in renunciation for her sake; only the humble virtues
of his weakness could be his--yet perhaps, in the sight of the God who pities, no such small
offering, after all!

"Dosia, you didn't really care for him!"

She smiled with pale lips and brimming eyes--an enigmatic answer which Billy could not read.
He sat beside her, smoothing her dress furtively, until she got up, and, whispering, "I must
go," left the room, unconscious of Girard's following gaze.

"I think we'd better be getting back," said the latter, in an odd voice, rising in the middle
of one of Justin's sentences, as Billy came straying in to join the group.

Lois' heart leaped. She had felt that another moment of live bait and reminiscences would be
more than she could stand.

"You need some rest," she said gratefully. "You have been tired out in our service."

"Oh, I'm not tired at all," he returned, shortly. Her work seemed to catch his eye for the
first time and, in a desire to change the subject, "What are you making?" he asked.

"A ball for Redge. I made one for Zaidee, and he felt left out--he's of a very jealous disposition,"
she went on abstractedly. "Are you of a jealous disposition, Mr. Girard?"

"I!" He stopped short, with the air of one not accustomed to taking account of his own attributes,
and apparently pondered the question as if for the first time. When he looked up to answer,
it was with abrupt decision: "Yes, I am."

"Don't look so like a pirate," said young Billy, giving him a thump on the back that sent them
both out of the house, laughing, when Lois rose and went over to Justin's side.

Husband and wife were at last alone.

XXIV

In the days that followed, Justin, going away in the morning very early with a set face, coming
home very late in the evening with that set face still, hardly seemed to notice the children
or Dosia.

"Justin has so much on his mind." Lois kept repeating the words over and over, as if she found
in them something by which to hold fast. Rich in beauty as she was, full of love and tender
favor, with the sweetness and the pathos of an awakening soul, her husband seemed to have no
eyes, no thought for her. That one murmured sentence in the hallway was all her food to live
on--his only personal recognition of her.

On the other hand, he poured out his affairs and his plans to her with a freedom of confidence
unknown before, a confidence which seemed to pre-suppose her oneness of interest with him.
He had talked exhaustively about everything but those few days' absence; that was a sore that
she must not touch, a wound that could bear no probing. She had striven very hard not to show
when she didn't understand, taking her cues for assent or dissent as he evidently wished her
to, letting him think aloud, since it seemed to be a relief to him, and saying little herself.
The only time when she broke in on her own account was when he told her about Cater, and the
defective bars, and Leverich's ultimatum. Her "Justin, you wouldn't do that; you wouldn't tell!"
met his quick response: "No, I couldn't."

"Oh, I know that. I'd rather be a hundred times poorer than we are! Aren't you glad that you
couldn't do it?"

"No; I think I'm rather sorry," said Justin, with a half-smile. The peculiar sharpness of the
thought that it was between Cater and Leverich--his friends, Heaven save the mark!--that he
was being pushed toward ruin, had not lost any of its edge.

There had been a tonic in a certain attitude of Cater's mind toward Justin--an unspoken kindliness
and admiration and tenderness such as an older man who has been along a hard road may feel
toward another who has come along the same way. Cater's kind, unobtrusive comradeship, the
fair-dealing friendliness of his rivalry, had seemed to be one of the factors of support, of
honesty, of commercial righteousness. Justin could smile proudly at Leverich, but he couldn't
smile when he thought of Cater--it weighed upon and humiliated him for the man who had been
his friend.

"I am glad, anyway!" said Lois. "It wouldn't have been you if you had! Can't you take a rest
now, dear, when you look so ill? No, no; I didn't mean that--of course you can't!"

"A rest!" He rose and walked up and down the room. "Lois, do you know that, in some way, I've
got to get it before the 13th? Those days in Chicago--at the worst time! It makes me wild to
think of the time I've lost. I'm looking out for a partner who will buy out Leverich and Martin,
and we've got a chance yet--I'll swear we have! But Lewiston's note has got to be paid first;
then I can take time to breathe. Harker saw a man from Boston from whom we might have borrowed
the money, if I had only been here. If we get that, we can hold over; if we don't, we go to
smash, and so does Lewiston. Lewiston trusted me. I've been to several places to-day to men
that would be willing enough to lend the money if they didn't know I needed it."

"George Sutton?" hazarded Lois.

Justin's lips curved bitterly. "Oh, he's a cur. He had some money invested last year when he
was sweet on Dosia, and drew it all out afterward! And, after all, I went to him to-day, like
a fool!"

"Can't you go to Eugene Larue?"

"No. We talked about it once, but he fought shy; he didn't think the security enough. If he
thought so then, it would be worse than useless now."

"Mr. Girard?"

"There's no use telling things to him, he hasn't any money." Justin turned a dim eye on her.
"I tell you, Lois, I haven't left a stone unturned, so far, that I could get at. If we could
only sell the island! Girard's looking it up for me; there may be a chance of that. There are
lots of chances to be thought out. I don't even know how we keep running, but we do. Harker's
a trump! If I can hold up my end, we'll be all right."

"Then go to bed now," said Lois, with a quick dread that gave her courage. "And you must have
something to eat first--and to drink, too. Come, Justin! Do as I say." Her voice had a new
firmness in it which he unconsciously obeyed. She crept to her bed at last, aching in every
limb, but with her baby pressed close to her, her one darling comfort, the source from which
she drew a new love as the child drew its life from her. It was the first time in all her married
life that she had borne the burden of her husband's care, a burden from which she must seek
no solace from him.

She bent all her energies, these next days, to keeping him well fed, and ordering everything
minutely for his comfort when he came home, aided and abetted by Dosia. The two women worked
as with one thought between them, as women can work, for the well-being of one they love, with
fond and minute care. Every detail, from the time he went away in the morning, stooping slightly
under the weight of something mysterious and unseen, was ordered with reference to his home-coming
at night--the husband and father on whose strength all this helpless little family hung for
their own sustenance.

Everything that was done for him had to be done covertly, it was found; he disliked any manifestation
of undue attention to his wants. Sometimes he was terribly irritable and unjust, and at others
almost heartbreakingly gentle and mild. Lois had persuaded him to have the doctor, who told
him seriously that he must stay home and rest--a futile prescription, which he treated with
scorn. Rest! He knew very well that it was not rest that he needed, but money--money, money,
the elixir of life!

It was near the end of this week when Justin came home, as Lois could see at once, revived
and encouraged, though still abstracted. He had an invitation to take a ride in the doctor's
motor, the doctor being a man who, when the hazard of dangerous cases had been extreme, absented
himself for a couple of hours, in which, under a breathless and unholy speed of motoring, he
reversed the pressure on his nerves, and came to the renewed sanity of a wind-swept brain when
every idea had been rushed out of it.

Lois felt that it would be good for Justin, too, and was glad that he had been persuaded to
go; yet she caught him looking at her with such strange intentness a couple of times during
the dinner that it discomposed her oddly. It made her a little silent; she pondered over it
after she had gone up, as usual, to the baby. Was there something wrong with her appearance?
She looked anxiously in the glass, and was annoyed to find that the white fichu, open at the
throat, was not on quite straight, and her hair was a little disarranged. She was pale, and
there were dark lines under her eyes. She hated not to look nice. Yet it might not be that.
Was it, perhaps, that something else was wrong--that he had bad news which he did not like
to tell? Was he to leave her again on some journey? She turned white for a moment, and sat
down to get the baby to sleep, and then resolutely tried to drive the thought from her. Yet,
as she sat there rocking gently, the thought still came back to her, oddly, puzzlingly. Why
had he looked at her like that? The smoke of his pipe down-stairs kept her still aware of his
presence.

Presently he came up-stairs and tiptoed into the room in clumsy fashion, for fear of waking
the baby, in his quest of a pair of gloves in a chiffonier drawer. After finding them, he stopped
for a moment in front of her, with that odd, arrested expression once more.

"You don't mind my going out to-night and leaving you?" he murmured. "The doctor ought to have
asked you, instead; you need it more than I."

"Oh, no, no!" she hastened to reassure. "I don't mind at all, really!" Her eyes gazed up at
him, limpidly clear, and emptied of self. "I have to run up and down stairs so many times to
baby now that I couldn't go, no matter how much I was asked to. I'm only glad that you will
have the distraction--you need it. I hope you'll have a lovely time."

She listened to his descending footsteps, and after a moment or two arose and laid the sleeping
child down in his crib.

In the dim light she went about the room, picking up toys and little discarded garments left
by the children, folding the clothes away, her tall, graceful figure, in the large curves of
its repeated bending and straightening, seeming to exemplify some unpainted Millet-like idea
of mother-work, emblematic of its unceasing round. She was hanging up a tiny cloak in the half
gloom of her closet, when she heard her husband's step once more stealing into the room, and
the next moment saw him beside her.

"What's the matter?" she asked, with quick premonition.

"Nothing, nothing at all; we haven't started yet." He put one arm around her and with the other
lifted her face up toward his. "I only came back to tell you"--His voice broke; there seemed
to be a mist over the eyes that were bent on hers. "I can't talk. I can't be as I ought to
be, Lois, until all this is over--but--I don't know what's getting into me lately, you look
so beautiful to me that I can't take my eyes off you! I went around all to-day counting the
hours, like a foolish boy, until it was time to come back to you; I grudge every minute that
I spend away from my lovely wife."

Sometimes we have a happiness so much greater, so much more blessed than our easily imagined
bliss, that we can only hide our eyes from it at first, like those of old, when in some humble
and unthought-of place they were visited by angels.

XXV

Very late that night Bailey Girard arrived at the house, after an absence of ten days. Dosia
had gone to bed unusually early, but she could not sleep. She could not seem to sleep at all
lately--the tireder she was, the more ceaselessly luminous seemed her brain; it was like trying
to sleep in a white glare in which all sorts of trivial things became unnaturally distinct.
Darkness brought, not a sense of rest, but that dread knowledge that she was going to lie there
staring through all the hours of it. Since that night that the pitcher had broken, she was
ever waiting tensely for the day to bring her something that it never brought. Lawson's death--Girard--Billy,
who was getting a little troublesome lately--the dear little brothers far away, mixed up with
tiny household perplexities, kept going through and through her mind. Her heart was wrung for
Justin and Lois; yet they had each other! Dreams could no longer comfort and support Dosia.
Prayer but wakened her further. If she could only sleep and forget!

