No. 201.] SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 3.                                            213

  Monumental Inscription in Peterborough Cathedral, by
  Thos. Wake                                                215

  FOLK LORE:--Superstition of the Cornish Miners--
  Northamptonshire Folk Lore                                215

  Shakspeare Correspondence                                 216

  MINOR NOTES:--Lemon-juice administered in Gout
  and Rheumatism--Weather Proverbs--Dog Latin--Thomas
  Wright of Durham--A Funeral Custom                        217

  QUERIES:--

  Littlecott--Sir John Popham, by Edward Foss               218

  Early Edition of the New Testament, by A. Boardman        219

  MINOR QUERIES:--Ravilliac--Emblem on a Chimney-piece--
  "To know ourselves diseased," &c.--"Pætus
  and Arria"--Heraldic Query--Lord Chancellor
  Steele--"A Tub to the Whale"--Legitimation (Scotland)--
  "Vaut mieux," &c.--Shakspeare First Folio--
  The Staffordshire Knot--Sir Thomas Elyot--
  "Celsior exsurgens pluviis," &c.--The Bargain Cup--
  School-Libraries.--Queen Elizabeth and her
  "true" Looking-glass--Bishop Thomas Wilson--
  Bishop Wilson's Works--Hobbes, Portrait of                219

  MINOR QUERIES WITH ANSWERS:--Brasenose, Oxford--
  G. Downing--Unkid--Pilgrim's Progress--John
  Frewen--Histories of Literature--"Mrs. Shaw's
  Tombstone"                                                221

  REPLIES:--

  Cranmer and Calvin, by the Rev. H. Walter                 222

  Barnacles, by Sir J. E. Tennent and T. J. Buckton         223

  Dial Inscriptions, by Cuthbert Bede, B.A.                 224

  The "Saltpeter Maker"                                     225

  Tsar, by T. J. Buckton, &c.                               226

  "Land of Green Ginger," by John Richardson and
  T. J. Buckton                                             227

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Stereoscopic Angles--
  Protonitrate of Iron--Photographs in natural
  Colours--Photographs by artificial Lights                 227

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Vandyke in America--
  Title wanted: Choirochorographia--Second Growth
  of Grass--Snail-eating--Sotades--The Letter "h"
  in "humble"--Lord North--Singing Psalms and
  Politics--Dimidiation by Impalement--"Inter
  cuncta micans," &c.--Marriage Service--Widowed
  Wife--Pure--Mrs. Tighe--Satirical Medal--"They
  shot him dead at the Nine-Stone Rig"--Hendericus
  du Booys: Helena Leonore de Sievéri--House-marks,
  &c.--"Qui facit per alium, facit per se"--
  Engin-à-verge--Campvere, Privileges of--Humbug:
  Ambages--"Going to Old Weston"--Reynolds's
  Nephew--The Laird of Brodie--Mulciber--Voiding
  Knife--Sir John Vanbrugh--Portrait of Charles I.--
  Burial in an erect Posture--Strut-Stowers and
  Yeathers or Yadders--Arms of the See of York--
  Leman Family--Position of Font                            228

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

  Notes on Books, &c.                                       234

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                              234

  Notices to Correspondents                                 234

  Advertisements                                            235

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

"THAT SWINNEY."

Junius thus wrote to H. S. Woodfall in a private note, to which Dr. Good has affixed the date
July 21st, 1769 (vol. i. p. 174.*)

    "That Swinney is a wretched but dangerous fool. He had the impudence to
    go to Lord G. Sackville, whom he had never spoken to, and to ask him
    whether or no he was the author of Junius: take care of him."

This paragraph has given rise to a great deal of speculation, large inferences have been drawn
from it, yet no one has satisfactorily answered the question, who was "that Swinney?"

That neither Dr. Good nor Mr. George Woodfall, the editors of the edit. of 1812, knew anything
about him, is manifest from their own bald note of explanation, "A correspondent of the printers."
Some reports say that he was a collector of news for the Public Advertiser, and subsequently
a bookseller at Birmingham, but I never saw any one fact adduced tending to show that there
was any person of that name so employed. Others that the Rev. Dr. Sidney Swinney was the party
referred to: and Mr. Smith, in his excellent notes to the Grenville Papers, vol. iii. p. lxviii.,
assumes this to be the fact. I incline to agree with him, but have only inference to strengthen
conjecture. What may be the value of that inference will appear in the progress of this inquiry,
Who was Dr. Sidney Swinney?

Reports collected by Mr. Butler, Mr. Barker, Mr. Coventry, and others, say that the Doctor
had been chaplain to the Russian Embassy, chaplain to the Embassy at Constantinople, and chaplain
to one of the British regiments serving in Germany. Mr. Falconer, in his Secret Revealed, p.
22., quotes a paragraph from one of Wray's letters to Lord Hardwick with reference to the proceedings
at the Royal Society:

    "Dr. Swinney, your Lordship's friend, presented his father-in-law
    Howell's book."

Swinney's father-in-law, here called Howell, was John Zephaniah Holwell, a remarkable man,
whose name is intimately associated with the early history of British India, one of the few
survivors of the Black Hole imprisonment, the successor of {214} Clive as governor, and a writer
on many subjects connected with Hindoo antiquities. Swinney enrols him amongst his heroes,

 "Holwell, Clive, York, Lawrence, Adams, Coote,
  Of Draper, Bath-strung for his baffled suit."

And he refers, in a note, to those

    "Ungrateful monsters (heretofore in a certain trading company), who
    have endeavoured to vilify and sully one of the brightest characters
    that ever existed."

I learn farther, from a volume of Fugitive Pieces, published by Dr. Swinney, that he was the
son of Major Mathew Swinney, whom after his flourishing fashion he calls on another occasion
"Mathew Swinney of immortal memory;" from one of his dedications that the Doctor himself was
educated at Eton; from the books of the Royal Society that he was of Clare Hall, Cambridge;
from dates and dedications, that from 1764 to 1768, he was generally resident at Scarborough;
and from the Gentleman's Magazine, that he died there 12th November, 1783.

That Swinney had been chaplain to the Russian Embassy I have no reason to believe; but that
he had been in the East for a time, possibly as chaplain to the Embassy at Constantinople,
is asserted in the brief biographical notice in the Gentleman's Magazine, and would seem to
be proved by a work which he published in 1769, called--

    "A Tour through some parts of the Levant: in which is included An
    Account of the Present State of the Seven Churches in Asia. Also a
    brief Explanation of the Apocalypse. By Sidney Swinney, D.D."

Nothing, however, can be inferred from a title-page of Swinney's. Here we have two or three
distinct works referred to:--A Tour, including "An Account of the Seven Churches," and the
"Explanation of the Apocalypse." Now I must direct attention to the fact, that from the peculiar
punctuation and phraseology--the full-stop after Asia in this title-page--it may have been
Swinney's intention to indicate, without asserting, that the Account of the Apocalypse only
was by Sidney Swinney. If so, though Swinney's name alone figures in the title-page of the
work, he is responsible only for one or two notes!

I would not have written conjecturally on this subject if I could have avoided it; but though
Swinney was a F.A.S. F.R.S., and though the work is dedicated to the Fellows of those Societies,
no copy of it is to be found in the libraries of either, or in the British Museum. I cannot,
therefore, be sure that my own copy is perfect. What that copy contains is thus set forth in
half a dozen lines of introduction:

    "Before I [S. S.] enter upon the more important part of my dissertation
    [The Explanation of the Apocalypse], it may not be improper to give you
    some account of the present state of the Seven Churches in Asia, as
    they are, which was communicated to me by a certain friend of mine,
    in the description of a short tour which he made through the
    principal parts of the Levant: should they be accompanied with a few
    casual notes of my own, I trust the work will not be less acceptable
    to you on that account."

It must be obvious, after this declaration, that the Tour set forth so conspicuously in the
title-page, was not written by Swinney. Now the "Itinerary" which follows is advowedly "wrote
by the author of the preceding account," and this brings the reader and the work itself to
"The End!"

The truth I suspect to have been this:--Swinney was not prudent and was poor, and raised money
occasionally, after the miserable fashion of the time, by publishing books on subscription,
and receiving subscriptions in anticipation of publication.

About this time, from 1767 to 1769, he published a Sermon; The Ninth Satire of Horace, a meaningless
trifle of a hundred lines, swollen, by printing the original and notes, into a quarto; a volume
of Fugitive Pieces; and the first canto of The Battle of Minden, a Poem in three Books, enriched
with critical Notes by Two Friends, and with explanatory Notes by the Author. Of the latter
work, as of the Tour, I have never seen but one copy, a splendid specimen of typography, splendidly
bound, containing the first and second canto. Whether the third canto was ever published is
to me doubtful; some of your correspondents may be able to give you information. My own impression
is that it was not, and for the following reasons.

Swinney, it appears, had received subscriptions for the work, and promised in his prospectus
a plan of the battle, and portraits of the heroes, which the work does not contain. "However,
to make some little amends" to his "generous subscribers," Swinney announces his intention
to present them with "three books instead of one."

The first book is dedicated to Earl Waldegrave, who commanded "the six British regiments of
infantry" on the "ever memorable 1st August, 1759," and a note affixed states that "Book the
Second" will be published on 1st January, and "Book the Third" on 1st of August.

But the public, as Swinney says, were kept "in suspense" almost three years for the second
book, which was not published until 1772; and in the dedication of this second book, also to
Earl Waldegrave, Swinney says:

    "Doubtless many of my subscribers have thought me very unmindful of the
    promise I made them in my printed proposal, in which I undertook to
    publish my poem out of hand. Ill health has been the sole cause of my
    disappointing their expectations. A fever of the nerves ... for these
    four years, has rendered me incapable.... In my original proposals I
    undertook to publish this work in two books. [In the introduction he
    says, as I have just quoted, one book.] Poetical {215} matter hath
    increased upon me to such a degree, in the genial climate of Languedoc,
    as to have enabled me to compose several more books on this interesting
    subject, all which I purpose presenting my subscribers with at the
    original price of half a guinea.... Many months ago this Second Book
    was printed off; but on my arrival in town from Montauban (whither I
    purpose to return), I found there were so many faults and blunders in
    it throughout, that I was under the necessity of condemning five
    hundred copies to the inglorious purpose of defending pye bottoms from
    the dust of an oven.... Profit, my Lord, has not been my motive for
    publishing: if it had, I should be egregiously disappointed, for
    instead of gaining I shall be a considerable loser by the publication;
    and yet many of my subscribers have given me four, five, and six times
    over and above the subscription-price for my Poem. How even the
    remaining books will see the light must depend entirely upon my
    pecuniary, not my poetical abilities. The work is well nigh completed;
    but not one solitary brother have I throughout the airy regions of Grub
    Street who is poorer than I. It is not impossible, however, but when
    some of my partial friends shall know this, they may enable me by
    their bounty to publish out of hand."

This leads me to doubt whether the third book was ever published, for I think the most "partial"
of his friends--those who had given "four, five, and six times over and above the subscription
price"--must have had enough in two books. If it were not published, it is a curious fact that,
in a poem called The Battle of Minden, the battle of Minden is not mentioned; though not more
extraordinary perhaps than the omissions of the "Explanation of the Apocalypse" in his previous
work.

I come now to the question, Why did Junius speak so passionately and disrespectfully of Swinney,
and what are the probabilities that Swinney had never before (July) 1769 spoken to Lord G.
Sackville? These I must defer till next week.

T. S. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

MONUMENTAL INSCRIPTION IN PETERBOROUGH CATHEDRAL.

The following Notes occur on a fly-leaf at the end of a copy of Gunton's History of Peterborough
Cathedral, and appear to have been written soon after that book was printed:

    "Among other things omitted in this history, I cannot but take notice
    of one ancient inscription upon a tomb in y^e body of the church,
    written in old Saxon letters, as followeth:

    [Cross] 'WS : KI : PAR : CI : PASSEZ : PVR : LE : ALME : ESTRAVNGE : DE
    : WATERVILLE : PRIEZ.'

    "This inscription may seem to challenge some relation to William de
    Waterville, one of the abbots of this church. (See p. 23.)"

    "On Sennour Gascelin de Marrham's tomb, mentioned p. 94., these letters
    seem to be still legible:

    'CI : GIST : EDOVN : GASCELIN : SENNOVR : DE MARRHAM : IADIS : DE : RI
    : ALM.. ^{DI} EV EST MERCIS : PATER : NOSTER.'"

    "In St. Oswald's Chapel, on y^e ground round the verge of a stone:

    'HIC IACET COR.... ROBERTI DE SVTTON ABBATIS ISTIVS MONASTERII CVIVS
    ANIMA REQVIESCAT IN PACE. AMEN.'"

    "In y^e churchyard is this inscription:

    [Cross] 'AÑA IOANNIS DE S[=C]O IVONE QVO[=A] P[IO]RIS PMA [=A] M
    [=D]IIII PACE REQVIESCAT. AMEN.'

    "This may probably relate to Ivo, sub-prior of this monastery, whose
    anniversary was observed in y^e Kalends of March. (See page 324. of
    this book.)"

    "In y^e churchyard:

     'Joannes Pocklington, S. S. Theologiæ doctor, obiit
      Nov. 14, A. D^i. 1642.'

     'Anne Pocklington, 1655.'

     'Mary, y^e wife of John Towers, late Lord Bp. of
      Peterborough, dyed Nov. 14, A.D. 1672.'

     'Quod mori potuit præstantissimæ foeminæ
      Compton Emery
      Filiæ Joannis Towers S. T. P.
      Hujus Ecclesiæ quondam Episcopi
      Viduæ Roberti Rowell LL. D.
      Nec non charissimæ conjugis
      Richardi Emery Gen:
      In hoc tumulo depositum: Feb. 4.
      A^o Ætatis 54,
      A^o Domini 1683.'"

A marginal note states that "The Chapter-house and Cloyster sold in 1650 for 800l., to John
Baker, Gent., of London."

H. THOS. WAKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Superstition of the Cornish Miners (Vol. viii., p. 7.).--I cannot find the information desired
by your correspondent in the Cornish antiquaries, and have in vain consulted other works likely
to explain this tradition; but the remarks now offered will perhaps be interesting in reference
to the nation alluded to. The Carthaginians being of the same race, manners, and religion as
the Phoenicians, there are no particular data by which we can ascertain the time of their first
trading to the British coast for the commodity in such request among the traders of the East.
The genius of Carthage being more martial than that of Tyre, whose object was more commerce
than conquest, it is not improbable that the former might by force of arms have established
a settlement in the Cassiterides, and by this means have secured that monopoly of tin which
the Phoenicians and their colonies indubitably enjoyed for several centuries. Norden, in his
Antiquities of Cornwall, mentions it as a tradition universally received by the inhabitants,
that their tin mines were formerly wrought by the Jews. He adds that these old works are there
at this day called Attal Sarasin, the ancient {216} cast-off works of the Saracens, in which
their tools are frequently found. Miners are not accustomed to be very accurate in distinguishing
traders of foreign nations, and these Jews and Saracens have probably a reference to the old
merchants from Spain and Africa; and those employed by them might possibly have been Jews escaped
the horrors of captivity and the desolation which about that period befel their country.

    "The Jews," says Whitaker (Origin of Arianism, p. 334.), "denominated
    themselves, and were denominated by the Britons of Cornwall,
    Saracens, as the genuine progeny of Sarah. The same name, no doubt,
    carried the same reference with it as borne by the genuine, and as
    usurped by the spurious, offspring of Abraham."

BIBLIOTHECAR. CHETHAM.

Northamptonshire Folk Lore (Vol. vii., p. 146.).--In Norfolk, a ring made from nine sixpences
freely given by persons of the opposite sex is considered a charm against epilepsy. I have
seen nine sixpences brought to a silversmith, with a request that he would make them into a
ring; but 13½d. was not tendered to him for making, nor do I think that any threehalfpences
are collected for payment. After the patient had left the shop, the silversmith informed me
that such requests were of frequent occurrence, and that he supplied the patients with thick
silver rings, but never took the trouble to manufacture them from the sixpences.

A similar superstition supposes that the sole of the left shoe of a person of the same age,
but opposite sex, to the patient, reduced to ashes is a cure for St. Anthony's fire. I have
seen it applied with success, but suppose its efficacy is due to some astringent principle
in the ashes.

E. G. R.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

"Runaways'" being a manifest absurdity, the recent editors have substituted "unawares," an
uncouth alteration, which, though it has a glimmering of sense, appears to me almost as absurd
as the word it supplies. In this dilemma your correspondent MR. SINGER ingeniously suggests
the true reading to be,--

 "That rumourers' eyes may wink, and Romeo
  Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen."

No doubt this is a felicitous emendation, though I think it may be fairly objected that a rumourer,
being one who deals in what he hears, as opposed to an observer, who reports what he sees,
there is a certain inappropriateness in speaking of a rumourer's eyes. Be this as it may, I
beg to suggest another reading, which has the merit of having spontaneously occurred to me
on seeing the word "runaways'" in your correspondent's paper, as if obviously suggested by
the combination of letters in that word. I propose that the passage should be read thus:

 "Spread thy close curtain, love-performing Night,
  That rude day's eyes may wink, and Romeo
  Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen."

A subsequent reference to Juliet's speech has left no doubt in my mind that this is the true
reading, and so obviously so, as to make it a wonder that it should have been overlooked. She
first asks the "fiery-footed steeds" to bring in "cloudy night," then night to close her curtain
(that day's eyes may wink), that darkness may come, under cover of which Romeo may hasten to
her. It is to be remarked, moreover, that as this epithet civil is, through its ordinary signification,
brought into connexion with what precedes it, so is it, through its unusual meaning of grave,
brought into connexion with what follows, it thus furnishing that equivocation of sense of
which our great dramatist is so fond, rarely missing an opportunity of "paltering with us in
a double sense."

I think, therefore, I may venture to offer you the proposed emendation as rigorously fulfilling
all the requirements of the text, while at the same time it necessitates a very trifling literal
disturbance of the old reading, since by the simple change of the letters naw into ded, we
convert "runaways'" into "rude day's," of which it was a very easy misprint.

Having offered you an emendation of my own, I cannot miss the opportunity of sending you {217}
another, for which I am indebted to a critical student of Shakspeare, my friend Mr. W. R. Grove,
the Queen's Counsel.

On reading this passage as thus printed, it will be seen that the two sentences of which it
is composed are in direct contradiction to each other; the first asserting that we have philosophers
who give a causeless and supernatural character to things ordinary and familiar: the second
stating as the result of this, "that we make trifles of terrors," whereas the tendency would
necessarily be to make "terrors of trifles." The confusion arises from the careless pointing
of the first sentence. By simply shifting the comma at present after "things," and placing
it after "familiar," the discrepancy between the two sentences disappears, as also between
the two members of the first sentence, which are now at variance.

It is singular that none of the editors should have noticed this defect, which I have no doubt
will hereafter be removed by the adoption of a simple change, that very happily illustrates
the importance of correct punctuation.

R. H. C.

Shakspeare's Skull.--As your publication has been the medium of many valuable comments upon
Shakspeare, and interesting matter connected with him, I am induced to solicit information,
if you will allow me, on the following subject. I have the Works of Shakspeare, which being
in one volume 8vo., I value as being more portable than any other edition. It was published
by Sherwood without any date affixed, but probably about 1825. There is a memoir prefixed by
Wm. Harvey, Esq., in which, p. xiii., it is stated that while a vault was being made close
to Shakspeare's, when Dr. Davenport was rector, a young man perceiving the tomb of Shakspeare
open, introduced himself so far within the vault that he could have brought away the skull,
but he was deterred from doing so by the anathema inscribed on the monument, of--

    "Curs'd be he that moves my bones."

This is given upon the authority of Dr. Nathan Drake's work on Shakspeare, in two vols. 4to.
Now in this work much is given which is copied into the memoir, but I do not there find this
anecdote, and perhaps some reader of "N. & Q." may supply this deficiency, and state where
I may find it. I may be allowed to state, that Pope's skull was similarly stolen and another
substituted.

I annex Wheler's remark that no violation of the grave had, up to the time of his work, taken
place.

    "Through a lapse of nearly two hundred years have his ashes remained
    undisturbed, and it is to be hoped no sacrilegious hand will ever be
    found to violate the sacred repository."--History of
    Stratford-upon-Avon, by R. B. Wheler (circa 1805?), 8vo.

A SUBSCRIBER.

On a Passage in "Macbeth."--MR. SINGLETON (Vol. vii., p. 404.) says, "Vaulting ambition, that
o'erleaps itself," is nonsense--the thing is impossible; and proposes that "vaulting ambition"
should "rest his hand upon the pommel, and o'erleap the saddle (sell)," a thing not uncommon
in the feats of horsemanship.

Did MR. SINGLETON never o'erleap himself, and be too late--later than himself intended? Did
he never, in his younger days, amuse himself with a soprasalto; or with what Donne calls a
"vaulter's sombersault?" Did he never hear of any little plunderer, climbing a wall, o'erreaching
himself to pluck an apple, and falling on the other side, into the hands of the gardener? "By
like," says Sir Thomas More, "the manne there overshotte himself."

What was the manne about? Attempting such a perilous gambol, perhaps, as correcting Shakspeare.

To {overleap, overreach, overshoot} himself are merely, to {leap, reach, shoot}, over or beyond
the mark himself intended.

Q.

  Bloomsbury.

P.S.--MR. ARROWSMITH reminds us of the old saw, that "great wits jump." He should recollect
also that they sometimes nod.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Lemon-juice administered in Gout and Rheumatism.--At a time when lemon-juice seems to be frequently
administered in gout and rheumatism, as though it were an entirely new remedy, I have been
somewhat amused at the following passage, which may also interest some of your readers; it
occurs in Scelta di Lettere Familiari degli Autori più celebri ad uso degli studiosi della
lingua Italiana, p. 36., in a letter "Di Don Francesco a Teodoro Villa":

    "Io non posso star meglio di quel che sto, e forse perchè uso di spesso
    il bagno freddo, e beo limonata a pranzo e a cena da molti mesi. Questa
    è la mia quotidiana bevanda, e dacche mi ci sono messo, m' ha fatto un
    bene che non si puo dire. Di quelle doglie di capo, {218} che un tempo
    mi sconquassavano le tempie, non ne sento più una. Le vertigini, che un
    tratto mi favorivano sì di spesso, se ne sono ite. Sino un reumatismo,
    che m' aveva afferrato per un braccio, s' e dileguato, così ch'io farei
    ora alla lotta col più valente marinaro calabrese che sia. L' appetito
    mio pizzica del vorace. Che buona cosa il sugo d' un limone spremato
    nell' acqua, e indolciato con un po' di zucchero! Fa di provarlo,
    Teodoro. Chi sa che non assesti il capo e lo stomaco auche a te."

S. G. C.

Weather Proverbs.--Are these proverbs worth recording?

 "Rain before seven, fine before eleven."

 "A mackerel sky and mare's tails,
  Make lofty ships carry low sails."

 "If the rain comes before the wind,
  Lower your topsails and take them in:
  If the wind comes before the rain,
  Lower your topsails and hoist them again."

The expressions in the latter two are maritime, and the rhymes not very choice; but they hold
equally in terrestrial matters, and I have seldom found them wrong.

RUBI.

Dog Latin.--The answer of one of your late correspondents (E. M. B., Vol. vii., p. 622.) on
the subject of "Latin--Latiner," has revived a Query in your First Volume (p. 230.) as to the
origin of this expression which does not appear to have been answered. I do not remember having
seen any explanation of the term, but I have arrived at one for myself, and present it to your
readers for what it is worth. Nothing, it must be admitted, can be more inconsistent with the
usual forms of language than the Latin of mediæval periods; it is often, in fact, not Latin
at all, but merely a Latin form given to simple English or other words, and admitting of the
greatest variety. Now of all animals the distinctions of breed are perhaps more numerous in
the canine race than any other. The word "mongrel," originally applied to one of these quadruped
combinations of variety, has long been used to signify anything in which mixture of class existed,
especially of a debasing kind, to which such mixture generally tends. Nothing could be more
appropriate than the application of the term to the "infima latinitas" of the Middle Ages;
and from "mongrel" the transition to the name of the genus from that of the degenerate species
appears to me to be very easy, though fanciful.

J. B--T.

Thomas Wright of Durham.--In the Philosophical Magazine for April, 1848, I gave an account
of the "Original Theory or new Hypothesis of the Universe" of Thomas Wright, whose anticipations
of modern speculation on the milky way, the central sun, and some other points, make him one
of the most remarkable astronomical thinkers of his day. In the biography in the Gentleman's
Magazine for 1793, he is described as struggling for a livelihood when a young man, and no
account is given of the manner in which he obtained the handsome competence with which he emerges
in 1756, or thereabouts. A few days after my account was published, I was informed (by Captain
James, R.E.) that a large four-foot orrery, constructed by Wright for the Royal Academy at
Portsmouth, was still in that town; and that by the title of "J. Harrises Use of the Globes"
it appears that he (Wright) kept his shop at the Orrery, near Water Lane, Fleet Street (No.
136), under the title of instrument-maker to his Majesty. In an edition of Harris (the 8th,
1767), which I lately met with, the above is described as "late the shop of Thomas Wright,"
&c. By the advertisements which this work contains, Wright must have had an extensive business
as a philosophical instrument-maker. The omission in the biography is a strange one. Possibly
some farther information may fall in the way of some of your readers.

A. DE MORGAN.

A Funeral Custom.--At Broadwas, Worcestershire, in the valley of the Teame, it is the custom
at funerals, on reaching "the Church Walk," for the bearers to set down the coffin, and, as
they stand around, to bow to it.

CUTHBERT BEDE, B. A.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

LITTLECOTT--SIR JOHN POPHAM.

Every one knows the tradition attached to the manor of Littlecott in Wiltshire, and the alleged
means by which Chief Justice Sir John Popham acquired its possession. It is told by Aubrey,
Sir Walter Scott, and many others, and is too notorious to be here repeated. Let me ask you
or your learned correspondents whether there exists any refutation of a charge so seriously
detrimental to the character of any judge, and so inconsistent with the reputation which Chief
Justice Popham enjoyed among his cotemporaries? See Lord Ellesmere's notice of him in the case
of the Postnati (State Trials, ii. 669.), and Sir Edward Coke's flattering picture of him at
the end of Sir Drew Drury's case (Reports, vi. 75.). Are there any records showing that a Darell
was ever in fact arraigned on a charge of murder, and the name of the judge who presided at
the trial? Is the date known of the death of the last Darell who possessed the estate, or that
of Sir John Popham's acquisition of it? The discovery of these might throw great light on the
subject, and possibly afford a complete contradiction.

Sir Francis Bacon, in his argument against Sir John Hollis and others for traducing public
justice, states that--

    "Popham, a great judge in his time, was complained of by petition to
    Queen Elizabeth; it was committed {219} to four privy councillors, but
    the same was found to be slanderous, and the parties punished in the
    court."--State Trials, vol. ii. p. 1029.

If this petition could be discovered, and it should turn out that the slander complained of
in it had reference to this story, the investigation which it then underwent by the four privy
councillors, and the chief justice's enjoyment of his high office for so many subsequent years,
would go far to prove the utter falsehood of the charge. This is a "consummation devoutly to
be wished" by every one who feels an interest in the purity of the bench, and particularly
by the present possessors of the estate, who must be anxious for their ancestor's fame.

Your useful publication has acted the part of the "detective police" in the elucidation of
many points of history less interesting than this, and I trust you will consider the case curious
enough to justify a close examination.

EDWARD FOSS.

       *       *       *       *       *

EARLY EDITION OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.

I should be greatly obliged if I could obtain through "N. & Q." when, where, and by whom an
imperfect black-letter copy of the New Testament, lately come into my possession, was printed,
and also who was the translator of it.

It is bound in boards, has three thongs round which the sheets are stitched, seems never to
have been covered with cloth, leather, or other material like our modern books, has had clasps,
and is four inches long and two inches thick.

The chapters are divided generally into four or five parts by means of the first letters of
the alphabet. The letters are neither placed equidistant, nor do they always mark a fresh paragraph.

It is not divided into verses. There are a few marginal references, and the chapter and letter
of the parallel passages are given.

Crosses are placed at the heads of most chapters, and also throughout the text, without much
apparent regularity. It contains a few rude cuts of the Apostles, &c. The Epistles of St. Peter
and St. John are placed before that to the Hebrews.

Letters are frequently omitted in the spelling, and this is indicated by a dash placed over
the one preceding the omitted letter. A slanting mark (/) is the most frequent stop used. I
will transcribe a few lines exactly as they occur, only not using the black-letter.

    "B. As some spake of the temple/ howe yt was garnesshed with goodly
    stones and iewels he sayde. The dayes will come/ when of these thyngis
    which ye se shall not be lefte stone upon stone/ that shall not be
    throwen doune. And they asked hym sayinge/ Master wh[=e] shall these
    thynges be? And what sygnes wil there be/ when suche thynges shal come
    to passe."--St. Luke, ch. xxi.

Land is spelt londe; saints, sainctis; authority, auctorite, &c.

A. BOARDMAN.

P.S. It commences at the 19th chapter of St. Matthew, and seems perfect to the 21st chapter
of Revelation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Ravilliac.--I have read that a pyramid was erected at Paris upon the murder of Henry IV. by
Ravilliac, and that the inscription represented the Jesuits as men--

    "Maleficæ superstitonis, quorum instinctu peculiaris adolescens
    (Ravilliac) dirum facinus instituerat."--Thesaur. Hist., tom. iv.
    lib. 95, ad ann. 1598.

We are also informed that he confessed that it was the book of Mariana the Jesuit, and the
traitorous positions maintained in it, which induced him to murder the king, for which cause
the book (condemned by the parliament and the Sorbonne) was publicly burnt in Paris. Is the
pyramid still remaining? If not, when was it taken down or destroyed, and by whom or by whose
authority?

CLERICUS (D).

Emblem on a Chimney-piece.--In the committee room of the Church Missionary Society, Nos. 16.
and 17. Upper Sackville Street, Dublin, a curious emblem-picture is carved on the centre of
the white marble chimney-piece. An angel or winged youth is sleeping in a recumbent posture;
one arm embraces a sleeping lion, in the other hand he holds a number of bell flowers. In the
opposite angle the sun shines brightly; a lizard is biting the heel of the sleeping youth.
I shall not offer my own conjectures in explanation of this allegorical sculpture, unless your
correspondents fail to give a more satisfactory solution.

ATH CELIATH.

"To know ourselves diseased," &c.--

    "To know ourselves diseased, is half the cure."

Whence?

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

  Birmingham.

"Pætus and Arria."--Can you inform me who is the author of Pætus and Arria, a Tragedy, 8vo., 1809?

In Genest's Account of the English Stage, this play is said to be written by a gentleman of
the University of Cambridge. Can you tell me whether this is likely to be W. Smyth, the late
Professor of Modern History in that university, who died in June, 1849?

GW.

Heraldic Query.--A. was killed in open rebellion. His son B. lived in retirement under a fictitious
name. The grandson C. retained the assumed name, and obtained new arms. Query, {220} Can the
descendants of C. resume the arms of A.? If so, must they substitute them for the arms of C.,
or bear them quarterly, and in which quarters?

FRANCIS P.

Lord Chancellor Steele.--Is any pedigree of William Steele, Esq., Lord Chancellor of Ireland
temp. Commonwealth, extant; and do any of his descendants exist?

It is believed he was nearly related to Captain Steel, governor of Beeston Castle, who suffered
death by military execution in 1643 on a charge of cowardice.

STATFOLD.

"A Tub to the Whale."--What is the origin of this phrase?

PIMLICO.

Legitimation (Scotland).--Perhaps some of your Scotch readers "learned in the law" would obligingly
answer the subjoined Queries, referring to some decisions.

1. Will entail property go to a bastard, legitimated before the Union under the great seal
(by the law of Scotland)?

2. Will titles and dignities descend?

3. Will armorial bearings?

M. M.

  Inner Temple.

"Vaut mieux," &c.--The proverb "Vaut mieux avoir affaire à Dieu qu'à ses saints" has a Latin
origin. What is it?

M.

Shakspeare First Folio.--Is there any obtainable edition of Shakspeare which follows, or fully
contains, the first folio?

M.

The Staffordshire Knot.--Can any of your readers give the history of the Staffordshire knot,
traced on the carriages and trucks of the North Staffordshire Railway Company?

T. P.

Sir Thomas Elyot.--I shall be extremely obliged by a reference to any sources of information
respecting Sir Thomas Elyot, Knight, living in the time of Henry VIII., son of Sir Richard
Elyot, Knight, of Suffolk.

I shall be glad also to know whether a short work (among others of his in my possession) entitled
The Defence of good Women, printed in London by Thomas Berthelet, 1545, is at all a rare book?

H. C. K.

"Celsior exsurgens pluviis," &c.--

 "Celsior exsurgens pluviis, nimbosque cadentes,
  Sub pedibus cernens, et cæca tonitrua calcans."

Can you oblige me by stating where the above lines are to be found? They appear to me to form
an appropriate motto for a balloon.

J. P. A.

The Bargain Cup.--Can the old English custom of drinking together upon the completion of a
bargain, be traced back farther than the Norman era? Did a similar custom exist in the earlier
ages? Danl. Dyke, in his Mysteries (London, 1634), says:

    "The Jews being forbidden to make couenants with the Gentiles, they
    also abstained from drinking with them; because that was a ceremonie
    vsed in striking of couenants."

This is the only notice I can find among old writers touching this custom, which is certainly
one of considerable antiquity: though I should like confirmation of Dyke's words, before I
can recognise an ancestry so remote.

R. C. WARDE.

  Kidderminster.

School-Libraries.--I am desirous of ascertaining whether any of our public schools possess
any libraries for the general reading of the scholars, in which I do not include mere school-books
of Latin, Greek, &c., which, I presume, they all possess, but such as travels, biographies, &c.

Boys fresh from these schools appear generally to know nothing of general reading, and from
the slight information I have, I fear there is nothing in the way of a library in any of them.
If not, it is, I should think, a very melancholy fact, and one that deserves a little attention:
but if any of your obliging correspondents can tell me what public school possesses such a
thing, and the facilities allowed for reading in the school, I shall take it as a favour.

WELD TAYLOR.

  Bayswater.

Queen Elizabeth and her "true" Looking-glass.--An anecdote is current of Queen Elizabeth having
in her later days, if not during her last illness, called for a true looking-glass, having
for a long time previously made use of one that was in some manner purposely falsified.

What is the original source of the story? or at least what is the authority to which its circulation
is mainly due? An answer from some of your correspondents to one or other of these questions
would greatly oblige

VERONICA.

Bishop Thomas Wilson.--In Thoresby's Diary, A.D. 1720, April 17 (vol. ii. p. 289.), is the
following entry:

    "Easter Sunday ... after evening prayers supped at cousin Wilson's with
    the Bishop of Man's son."

Was there any relationship, and what, between this "cousin Wilson," and the bishop's son, Dr.
Thomas Wilson? I should be glad of any information bearing on any or on all these subjects.

WILLIAM DENTON.

Bishop Wilson's Works.--The REV. JOHN KEBLE, Hursley, near Winchester, being engaged in writing
the life and editing the works of Bishop Wilson (Sodor and Man), would feel obliged by {221}
the communication of any letters, sermons, or other writings of the bishop, or by reference
to any incidents not to be found in printed accounts of his life.

Hobbes, Portrait of.--In the Memoirs of T. Hobbes, it is stated that a portrait of him was
painted in 1669 for Cosmo de Medici.

I have a fine half-length portrait of him, on the back of which is the following inscription:

 "Thomas Hobbes, æt. 81. 1669.
  J^{os}. Wick Wrilps, Londiensis, Pictor Caroli 2^{di}. R.
  pinx^t."

Is this painter the same as John Wycke, who died in 1702, but who is not, I think, known as
a portrait painter?

Can any of your readers inform me whether a portrait of Hobbes is now in the galleries at Florence,
and, if so, by whom it was painted? It is possible that mine is a duplicate of the picture
which was painted for the Grand Duke.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

  Wallington.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Brasenose, Oxford.--I am anxious to learn the origin and meaning of the word Brasenose. I have
somewhere heard or read (though I cannot recall where) that it was a Saxon word, brasen haus
or "brewing-house;" and that the college was called by this name, because it was built on the
site of the brewing-house of King Alfred. He was English ambassador in the Hague previous to
and in the year 1664, and to him Downing Street in London owes its name. A very speedy answer
would be most welcome.--From the Navorscher.

A. T. C.

    [In Pepys's Diary, vol. i. p. 2. edit. 1848, occurs the following
    notice of Sir George Downing:--"Wood has misled us in stating that Sir
    George Downing was a son of Dr. Calibut Downing, the rector of Hackney.
    He was beyond doubt the son of Emmanuel Downing, a London merchant, who
    went to New England. It is not improbable that Emmanuel was a near
    kinsman of Calibut; how related has not yet been discovered. Governor
    Hutchinson, in his History of Massachusetts, gives the true account
    of Downing's affiliation, which has been farther confirmed by Mr.
    Savage, of Boston, from the public records of New England. According to Hutchinson,
    Sir George died in 1684.]

Unkid.--Can any of your readers inform me as to the derivation of this word, or give any instance
of its recent use? I have frequently heard it in my childhood (the early part of the present
century) among the rural population of Oxon and Berks. It was generally applied to circumstances
of a melancholy or distressing character, but sometimes used to express a peculiar state of
feeling, being apparently intended to convey nearly the same meaning as the ennui of the French.
I {222} recollect an allusion to the phrase somewhere in Miss Mitford's writings, who speaks
of it as peculiar to Berks; but as I was then ignorant of Captain Cuttle's maxim, I did not
"make a note of it," so that I am unable to lay my hand on the passage.

G. T.

  Reading.

    [Mr. Sternberg also found this word in Northamptonshire: for in his
    valuable work on The Dialect and Folk Lore of that county occurs the
    following derivation of it:--"UNKED, HUNKID, s. lonely, dull,
    miserable. 'I was so unked when ye war away.' 'A unked house,' &c.
    Mr. Bosworth gives, as the derivative, the A.-S. uncyd, solitary,
    without speech. In Batchelor's List of Bedfordshire Words, it is
    spelt ungkid."]

Pilgrim's Progress.--The common editions contain a third part, setting
forth the life of Tender-conscience: this third part is thought not to
have been written by Bunyan, and is omitted from some, at least, of the
modern editions. Can any of your readers explain by whom this addition was
made, and all about it? The subject of the Pilgrim's Progress
generally--the stories of a similar kind which are said to have
preceded--especially in Catholic times--the history of its editions and
annotations, would give some interesting columns. In 1695, it reached a second edition; and a
    sixth in 1705. In 1708, it was denounced in the title to the ninth
    edition of the second part, by a 'Note, the third part, suggested to
    be J. Bunyan's, is an imposture.' The author of this forgery is as yet
    unknown." Mr. Offor has also devoted fifty pages of his Introduction to
    the conjectured prototypes of Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. He says,
    "Every assertion or suggestion that came to my knowledge has been
    investigated, and the works referred to have been analysed. And beyond
    this, every allegorical work that could be found, previous to the
    eighteenth century, has been examined in all the European languages,
    and the result is a perfect demonstration of the complete originality
    of Bunyan."]

John Frewen.--What is known of this divine? He was minister at Northiam in Sussex in 1611;
and published, the following year, a small volume of Sermons, bearing reference to some quarrel
between himself and parishioners. Are these Sermons rare? Any particulars would be acceptable.

R. C. WARDE.

  Kidderminster.

    [Accepted Frewen, Archbishop of York, was the eldest son of John
    Frewen, "the puritanical Rector of Northiam," as Wood calls him, and
    indeed his name carries a symbol of his father's sanctity. Wood has
    given a few particulars of John, who, he says, "was a learned divine,
    and frequent preacher of the time, and wrote, 1. Fruitful Instructions
    and Necessary Doctrine, to edify in the Fear of God, &c., 1587. 2.
    Fruitful Instructions for the General Cause of Reformation, against
    the Slanders of the Pope and League, &c., 1589. 3. Certain Choice
    Grounds and Principles of our Christian Religion, with their several
    Expositions, by Way of Questions and Answers, &c., 1621, and other
    things. He died in 1627 (about the latter end), and was buried in
    Northiam Church, leaving then behind these sons, viz. Accepted,
    Thankful, Stephen, Joseph, Benjamin, Thomas, Samuel, John, &c., which
    John seems to have succeeded his father in the Rectory of Northiam; but
    whether the said father was educated at Oxford, I cannot tell."]

Histories of Literature.--Can any correspondent inform me of the best, or one or two principal
Histories of Literature, published in the English language, with the names of the author and
publisher; as well as, if possible, the size and price?

ILMONASTERIENSIS. 8vo. (36s.). He may also consult with
    advantage Dr. Maitland's Dark Ages, which illustrates the state of
    religion and literature from the ninth to the twelfth centuries, 8vo.,
    12s. and Berrington's Literary History of the Middle Ages, 3s. 6d.]

"Mrs. Shaw's Tombstone."--In Leigh's Observations (London, 1660) are several quotations from
a work entitled Mrs. Shaw's Tombstone. Where may a copy of this be seen?

R. C. WARDE.

  Kidderminster.

    [Mrs. Dorothy Shaw's Tombstone, or the Saint's Remains, 1658, may be
    seen in the British Museum, Press-mark, 1418. i. 41.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

CRANMER AND CALVIN.

(Vol. viii., p. 182.)

A correspondent who seems to delight in sibilants, signing, himself S. Z. Z. S., invites me
to "preserve, in your columns, the letter of Calvin to Cranmer, of which Dean Jenkyns has only
given extracts," as noticed by me in your Vol. vii., p. 621.

I would not shrink from the trouble of transcribing the whole letter, if a complete copy were
only to be found in the short-lived columns of a newspaper, as inserted in the Record of May
15, 1843, by Merle d'Aubigné; but the Dean has given a reference to the volume in which both
the letters he cites are preserved and accessible, viz. Calvin Epistles, pp. 134, 135., Genev.
1616. {223}

S. Z. Z. S. justly observes that there are two points to be distinguished: first, Cranmer's
wish that Calvin should assist in a general union of the churches protesting against Romish
errors; second, Calvin's offer to assist in settling the Church of England. He adds, "The latter
was declined; and the reason is demonstrated in Archbishop Laurence's Bampton Lectures." I
neither possess those lectures, nor the volume of Calvin's epistles; but all I have seen of
the correspondence between him and Cranmer, in the Parker Society's editions of Cranmer, and
of original letters between 1537-58, and in Jenkyns' Remains of Cranmer, indisposes me to believe
that Calvin made any "offer to assist in settling the Church of England." It appears from Dean
Jenkyns' note, vol. i. p. 346., that Archbishop Laurence made a mistake in the order of the
correspondence, calculated to mislead himself; and as to Heylyn's assertion, Eccles. Restaur.,
p. 65., that Calvin made such an offer and "that the Archbishop (Cranmer) knew the man and
refused his offer," the Dean says:

    "He gives no authority for the later part of his statement, and it can
    hardly be reconciled with Cranmer's letter to Calvin of March 20,
    1552."

The contemptuous expression, he "knew the man and refused his offer," is, in fact, utterly
irreconcilable with Cranmer's language in all his three letters to Melancthon, to Bullinger,
and to Calvin (Nos. 296, 297, 298. of Parker Society's edition of Cranmer's Remains, and Nos.
283, 284, 285. of Jenkyns' edition), where he tells each of the other two that he had written
to Calvin from his desire--

    "Ut in Anglia, aut alibi, doctissimorum et optimorum virorum synodus
    convocaretur, in qua de puritate ecclesiasticæ doctrinæ, et præcipue de
    consensu controversiæ sacramentariæ tractaretur."

Or, as he said to Calvin himself:

    "Ut docti et pii viri, qui alios antecellunt eruditione et judicio,
    convenirent."

Your correspondent seems to have used the word "demonstrated" rather in a surgical than in
its mathematical sense.

Having taken up my pen to supply you with an answer to this historical inquiry, I may as well
notice some other articles in your No. 199. For example, in p. 167., L. need not have referred
your readers to Halliwell's Researches in Archaic Language for an explanation of Bacon's word
"bullaces." The word may be seen in Johnson's Dictionary, with the citation from Bacon, and
instead of vaguely calling it "a small black and tartish plum," your botanical readers know
it as the Prunus insititia.

Again, p. 173., J. M. may like to know farther, that the Duke of Wellington's clerical brother
was entered on the boards of St. John's College, Cambridge, as Wesley, where the spelling must
have been dictated either by himself, or by the person authorised to desire his admission.
It continued to be spelt Wesley in the Cambridge annual calendars as late as 1808, but was
altered in that of 1809 to Wellesley. The alteration was probably made by the desire of the
family, and without communicating such desire to the registrary of the university. For it appears
in the edition of Graduati Cantabrigienses, printed in 1823, as follows:

    "Wesley, Gerard Valerian, Coll. Joh. A. M. 1792. Comitis de Mornington,
    Fil. nat. 4^{tus}."

In p. 173., C. M. INGLEBY may like to know, as a clue to the origin of his apussee and, that
I was taught at school, sixty years ago, to call & And per se, whilst some would call it And-per-se-and.

In the same page, the inquirer B. H. C. respecting the word mammon, may like to know that the
history of that word has been given at some length in p. 1. to p. 68. of the Parker Society's
edition of Tyndale's Parable of the wicked Mammon, where I have stated that it occurs in a
form identical with the English in the Chaldee Targum of Onkelos on Exod. viii. 21., and in
that of Jonathan on Judges, v. 9., as equivalent to riches; and that in the Syriac translation
it occurs in a form identical with [Greek: Mamôna], in Exod. xxi. 30., as a rendering for [Hebrew:
K\holam\P\segol\R], the price of satisfaction. In B. H. C.'s citation from Barnes, even seems
a misprint for ever. The Jews did not again fall into actual idolatry after the Babylonish
captivity; but we are told that in the sight of God covetousness is idolatry.

HENRY WALTER.

  Hasilbury Bryan.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARNACLES.

(Vol. viii., p. 124.)

A Querist quoting from Porta's Natural Magic the vulgar error that "not only in Scotland, but
in the river Thames, there is a kind of shell-fish which get out of their shells and grow to
be ducks, or such like birds," asks, what could give rise to such an absurd belief? Your correspondent
quotes from the English translation of the Magia Naturalis, A.D. 1658; but the tradition is
very ancient, Porta the author having died in 1515 A.D. You still find an allusion in Hudibras
to those--

 "Who from the most refin'd of saints,
  As naturally grow miscreants,
  As barnacles turn Soland geese,
  In th' islands of the Orcades."

The story has its origin in the peculiar formation of the little mollusc which inhabits the
multivalve shell, the Pentalasmis anatifera, which by a fleshy peduncle attaches itself by
one end to the bottoms of ships or floating timber, whilst from the other {224} there protrudes
a bunch of curling and fringe-like cirrhi, by the agitation of which it attracts and collects
its food. These cirrhi so much resemble feathers, as to have suggested the leading idea of
a bird's tail: and hence the construction of the remainder of the fable, which is thus given
with grave minuteness in The Herbal, or General Historie of Plants, gathered by John Gerarde,
Master in Chirurgerie: London, 1597:

    "What our eyes have seen, and our hands have touched, we shall declare.
    There is a small island in Lancashire called the Pile of Foulders,
    wherein are found the broken pieces of old and bruised ships, some
    whereof have been cast thither by shipwreck; and also the trunks or
    bodies, with the branches of old and rotten trees, cast up there
    likewise, whereon is found a certain spume or froth, that in time
    breedeth unto certain shells, in shape like those of a mussel, but
    sharper pointed, and of a whitish colour; wherein is contained a thing
    in form like a lace of silk finely woven as it were together, of a
    whitish colour; one end whereof is fastened unto the inside of the
    shell, even as the fish of oysters and mussels are; the other end is
    made fast unto the belly of a rude mass or lump, which in time cometh
    to the shape and form of a bird. When it is perfectly formed, the shell
    gapeth open, and the first thing that appeareth is the foresaid lace or
    string; next come the legs of the bird hanging out and as it groweth
    greater, it openeth the shell by degrees, till at length it is all come
    forth, and hangeth only by the bill. In short space after it cometh to
    full maturity, and falleth into the sea, where it gathereth feathers,
    and groweth to a fowl, bigger than a mallard, and lesser than a goose;
    having black legs, and a bill or beak, and feathers black and white,
    spotted in such manner as our magpie, called in some places a
    Pie-Annet, which the people of Lancashire call by no other name than a
    tree-goose; which place aforesaid, and all those parts adjacent, do so
    much abound therewith, that one of the best may be bought for
    threepence. For the truth hereof, if any doubt, may it please them to
    repair unto me, and I shall satisfy them by the testimony of credible
    witnesses."--Page 1391.

Gerarde, who is doubtless Butler's authority, says elsewhere, that "in the north parts of Scotland,
and the islands called Orcades," there are certain trees whereon these tree-geese and barnacles
abound.

The conversion of the fish into a bird, however fabulous, would be scarcely more astonishing
than the metamorphosis which it actually undergoes--the young of the little animal having no
feature to identify it with its final development. In its early stage (I quote from Carpenter's
Physiology, vol. i. p. 52.) it has a form not unlike that of the crab, "possessing eyes and
powers of free motion; but afterwards, becoming fixed to one spot for the remainder of its
life, it loses its eyes and forms a shell, which, though composed of various pieces, has nothing
in common with the jointed shell of the crab."

Though Porta wrote at Naples, the story has reference to Scotland; and the tradition is evidently
northern, and local. As to SPERIEND's Query, What could give rise to so absurd a story? it
doubtless took its origin in the similarity of the tentacles of the fish to feathers of a bird.

J. EMERSON TENNENT.

Drayton (1613) in his Poly-olbion, iii., in connexion with the river Dee, speaks of--

    "Th' anatomised fish, and fowls from planchers sprung,"

to which a note is appended in Southey's edition, p. 609., that such fowls were "barnacles,
a bird breeding upon old ships." In the Entertaining Library, "Habits of Birds," pp. 363-379.,
the whole story of this extraordinary instance of ignorance in natural history is amply developed.
The barnacle shells which I once saw in a sea-port, attached to a vessel just arrived from
the Mediterranean, had the brilliant appearance, at a distance, of flowers in bloom[1]; the
foot of the Lepas anatifera (Linnæus) appearing to me like the stalk of a plant growing from
the ship's side: the shell had the semblance of a calyx, and the flower consisted of the fingers
(tentacula) of the shell-fish, "of which twelve project in an elegant curve, and are used by
it for making prey of small fish." The very ancient error was to mistake the foot of the shell-fish
for the neck of a goose, the shell for its head, and the tentacula for a tuft of feathers.
As to the body, non est inventus. The Barnacle Goose is a well-known bird: and these shell-fish,
bearing, as seen out of the water, resemblance to the goose's neck, were ignorantly, and without
investigation, confounded with geese themselves, an error into which Albertus Magnus (d. 1280)
did not fall, and in which Pope Pius II. proved himself infallible. Nevertheless, in France,
the Barnacle Goose may be eaten on fast-days by virtue of this old belief in its marine origin.

T. J. BUCKTON

[Footnote 1: See Penny Cycl., art. CIRRIPEDA, vii. 208., reversing the woodcut.]

       *       *       *       *       *

DIAL INSCRIPTIONS.

(Vol. iv., p. 507. Vol. v., p. 155., &c.)

In the churchyard of Areley-Kings, Worcestershire (where is the singular memorial to Sir Harry
Coningsby, which I mentioned at Vol. vi., {225} p. 406.), is a curious dial, the pillar supporting
which has its four sides carved with figures of Time and Death, &c., and the following inscriptions.

On the south side, where is the figure of Time:

          Consider

 "Aspice--ut aspicias."

 "Time's glass and scythe
  Thy life and death declare,
  Spend well thy time, and
  For thy end prepare."

     "O man, now or never
  While there is time, turn unto the Lord,
      And put not off from day to day."

On the north side, where is the figure of Death standing upon a dead body, with his dart, hour-glass,
and spade:

 "Three things there be in very deede,
  Which make my heart in grief to bleede:
  The first doth vex my very heart,
  In that from hence I must departe;
  The second grieves me now and then,
  That I must die, but know not when;
  The third with tears bedews my face,
  That I must die, nor know the place.

          I. W.
      fecit, Anno D[=m]i.
          1687."

 "Behold my killing dart and delving spade;
  Prepare for death before thy grave be made;
                  for
          After death there's no hope." 14.

 "The death of saints is precious,
  And miserable is the death of sinners."

The east side of the pillar has the following:

 "Si vis ingredi in vitam,
  Serve mandata."

 "Judgments are prepared for sinners."--Prov. xiv. 9.

And on the west:

     "Sol non occidat
  Super iracundiam vestram."

 "Whatsoever ye would that men
      Should do unto you,
  Do ye even so unto them."

I subjoin a few other dial inscriptions, copied from churches in Worcestershire.

Kidderminster (parish church):

    "None but a villain will deface me."

Himbleton (over the porch):

    "Via Vitæ."

Bromsgrove:

    "We shall ----" (i.e. we shall die-all).

Shrawley:

    "Ab hoc nomento pendet æternitas."

CUTHBERT BEDE, B.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE "SALTPETER MAKER."

(Vol. vii., pp. 377. 433. 460. 530.)

The following humble petition will give an idea of the arbitrary power exercised by the "Saltpeter
maker" in the days of Good Queen Bess; and of the useful monopoly that functionary contrived
to make of his employment, in defiance of county government:

    "Righte honorable, our humble dewties to yo^r good Lordshippe premised,
    maye it please the same to be advertised, that at the Quarter sessions
    holden at Newarke within this countie of Nottingham, There was a
    generall Complaynte made unto us by the Whole Countrie, that one John
    Ffoxe, saltpeter maker, had charged the Whole Countrie by his precepts
    for the Caryinge of Cole from Selsonn, in the Countie of Nottingham,
    unto the towne of Newarke w^{th}in the same countie; beinge sixteene
    myles distante for the makeinge of saltpeter, some townes w^{th} five
    Cariages and some w^{th} lesse, or els to geve him foure shillinges for
    everie Loade, whereof he hath Recyved a great parte. Uppon w^{ch}
    Complaynte we called the same Ffoxe before some of us at Newarke at the
    Sessions, there to answere the premisses, and also to make us a
    propc[=i]on what Loades of Coales would serve to make a thowsand of
    saltpeter, To thend we might have sett some order for the preparing of
    the same: But the said Ffoxe will not sett downe anie rate what would
    serve for the makeinge of a Thowsande. Therefore we have thoughte good
    to advertise your good Lordshippe of the premisses, and have appoynted
    the clarke of the peace of this countie of Nottingham to attend yo^r
    good Lordshippe to know yo^r Lordshippes pleasure about the same, who
    can further informe yo^r good Lordshippe of the particularities
    thereof, if it shall please yo^r good Lordshippe to geve him hearings,
    And so most humblie take our Leaves, Newarke, the viij^{th} of Octob^r,
    1589.

     "Your L^{pp} most humblie to Comaunde,

      RO. MARKHAM,
      WILLIAM SUTTON,
      R[=AU]F BARTON, 1589,
      N[=IH]S ROOS,
      BRIAN LASSELS,
      JOHN THORNHAGH."

The document is addressed on the back "To the Right Honorable our verie good Lord the Lord
Burghley, Lord Heighe Threasoro^r of England, yeve theis;" and is numbered LXI. 72. among the
Lansdowne MSS., B. M.

The proposal quoted below has no date attached, but probably belongs to the former part of
the seventeenth century:

    "THE SERVICE.

    "1. To make 500 Tunne of refined Saltpetre within his Ma^{ties}
    dominions yearely, and continually, and cheaper.

    2. Without digging of homes or charging of carts, or any other charge
    to the subject whatsoever. {226}

    3. To performe the whole service at our owne cost.

    4. Not to hinder any man in his owne way of makeing saltpetre, nor
    importation from forreine parts."

The following memorandum is underwritten:

    "Mr. Speaker hath our Bill; Be pleased to-morrow to call for it."

The original draft of the above disinterested offer may be seen Harl. CLVIII. fol. 272.

FURVUS.

  St. James's.

       *       *       *       *       *

TSAR.

(Vol. viii., p. 150.)

The difficulty in investigating the origin of this word is that the letter c, "the most wonderful
of all letters," says Eichhoff (Vergleichung der Sprachen, p. 55.), sounds like k before the
vowels a, o, u, but before e, i, in French, Spanish, Portuguese, and Dutch, as s, in Italian
as tsh, in German as ts. It is always ts in Polish and Bohemian. In Russian it is represented
by a special letter [Cyrillic: ts], tsi; but in Celtic it is always k. Conformably with this
principle, the Russians, like the Germans, Poles, and Bohemians, pronounce the Latin c as ts.
So Cicero in these languages is pronounced Tsitsero, very differently from the Greeks, who
called him Kikero. The letter tsi is a supplementary one in Russian, having no corresponding
letter in the Greek alphabet, from which the Russian was formed in the ninth century by St.
Cyril. The word to be sought then amongst cognate languages as the counterpart of tsar (or
as the Germans write it czar) is car, as pronounced in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese,
and Dutch. The most probable etymological connection that I can discover is with the Sanscrit
[Sanskrit: car] car, to move, to advance; the root of the Greek [Greek: karrhon], in English
car, Latin curro, French cours. So Sanscrit caras, carat, movable, nimble; Greek [Greek: chraôn],
Latin currens. And Sanscrit câras, motion, Greek [Greek: choros], Latin currus, cursus, French
char, English car, cart, &c. The early Russians were doubtless wanderers, an off-shoot of the
people known to the Greeks as Scythians, and to the Hebrews and Arabians as Gog and Magog,
who travelled in cars, occupying first one territory with their flocks, but not cultivating
the land, then leaving it to nature and taking up another resting-place. It is certain that
the Russians have many Asiatic words in their vocabulary, which must necessarily have occurred
from their being for more than two centuries sometimes under Tatar, and sometimes under Mongol
domination; and the origin of this word tsar or car may leave to be sought on the plateaus
of North-east Asia. In the Shemitic tongues (Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, &c.) no connexion of
sound or meaning, so probable as the above Indo-European one, is to be found. The popular derivations
of Nabupolassar, Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, &c., are not to be trusted. It is remarkable,
however, that these names are significant in Russian. (See "N. & Q.," Vol. vii., pp. 432, 433,
note.) The cuneatic inscriptions may yet throw light on these Assyrian names. In Russian the
kingdom is Tsarstvo, the king Tsar, his queen Tsarina, his son is Tsarevitch, and his daughter
Tsarevna. The word is probably pure Russian or Slavic. The Russian tsar used about two hundred
years ago to be styled duke by foreign courts, but he has advanced in the nomenclature of royalty
to be an emperor. The Russians use the word imperatore for emperor, Kesar for Cæsar, and samodershetse
for sovereign.

T. J. BUCKTON.

  Birmingham.

In Voltaire's History of the Russian Empire, it is stated that the title of Czar may possibly
be derived front the Tzars or Tchars of the kingdom of Casan. When John, or Ivan Basilides,
Grand Prince of Russia, had completed the reduction of this kingdom, he assumed this title,
and it has since continued to his successors. Before the reign of John Basilides, the sovereigns
of Russia bore the name of Velike Knez, that is, great prince, great lord, great chief, which
in Christian countries was afterwards rendered by that of great duke. The Czar Michael Federovitz,
on occasion of the Holstein embassy, assumed the titles of Great Knez and Great Lord, Conservator
of all the Russias, Prince of Wolodimir, Moscow, Novogorod, &c., Tzar of Casan, Tzar of Astracan,
Tzar of Siberia. The name of Tzar was therefore the title of those Oriental princes, and therefore
it is more probable for it to have been derived from the Tshas of Persia than from the Roman
Cæsars, whose name very likely never reached the ears of the Siberian Tzars on the banks of
the Oby. In another part of Voltaire's History, when giving an account of the celebrated battle
of Narva, where Charles XII., with nine thousand men and ten pieces of cannon, defeated "the
Russian army with eighty thousand fighting men, supported by one hundred and forty-five pieces
of cannon," he says, "Among the captives was the son of a King of Georgia, whom Charles sent
to Stockholm; his name was Mittelesky Czarowitz, or Czar's Son, which is farther proof that
the title of Czar or Tzar was not originally derived from the Roman Cæsars." To the above slightly
abbreviated description may not be uninterestingly added the language of Voltaire, which immediately
follows the first reference:

    "No title, how great soever, is of any signification, unless they who
    bear it are great and powerful of themselves. The word emperor, which
    denoted only the general of an army, became the title of the {227}
    sovereigns of Rome and it is now conferred on the supreme governor of
    all the Russias."

A HERMIT AT HAMPSTEAD.

I beg to inform J. S. A. that the right word is Tsar, and that it is the Russian word answering
to our king or lord, the Latin Rex, the Persian Shah, &c. There may be terms in other languages
that have an affinity with it, but I believe we should seek in vain for a derivation.

T. K.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LAND OF GREEN GINGER."

(Vol. viii., p. 160.)

I wish that R. W. ELLIOT of Clifton, whom I recognise as a former inhabitant of Hull, had given
the authority on which he states, that "It is so called from the sale of ginger having been
chiefly carried on there in early times." The name of this street has much puzzled the local
antiquaries; and having been for several years engaged on a work relative to the derivations,
&c., of the names of the streets of Hull, I have spared no pains to ascertain the history and
derivation of the singular name of this street.

I offer then a conjecture as to its derivation as follows:--The ground on which this street
stands was originally the property of De la Pole, Duke of Suffolk, on which he had built his
stately manor-house. On the attainder of the family it was seized by the king; and Henry VIII.
several times held his court here, on one of his visits having presented his sword to the corporation.
It was then, 1538, called Old Beverley Street, as seen in the survey made of the estates of
Sir William Sydney, Kt. In a romance called Piraute el Blanco, it is stated "The morning collation
at the English Court was green ginger with good Malmsey, which was their custom, because of
the coldness of the land." And in the Foedera, vii. 233., it is stated that, among other things,
the cargo of a Genoese ship, which was driven ashore at Dunster, in Somersetshire, in 1380,
consisted of green ginger (ginger cured with lemon-juice). In Hollar's Map of Hull, 1640, the
street is there laid out as built upon, but without any name attached to it. No other plans
of Hull are at present known to exist from the time of Hollar, 1640, to Gent, 1735. In Gent's
plan of Hull, it is there called "The Land of Green Ginger;" so that probably, between the
years 1640 and 1735, it received its peculiar name.

I therefore conjecture that, as Henry VIII. kept his Court here with his usual regal magnificence,
green ginger would be one of the luxuries of his table; that this portion of his royal property
being laid out as a garden, was peculiarly suitable for the growth of ginger--the same as Pontefract
was for the growth of the liquorice plant; and that, upon the property being built upon, the
remembrance of this spot being so suitable for the growth of ginger for the Court, would eventually
give the peculiar name, in the same way that the adjoining street of Bowl-Alley-Lane received
its title from the bowling-green near to it.

JOHN RICHARDSON.

  13. Savile Street, Hull.

This has long been a puzzle to the Hull antiquaries. I have often inquired of old persons likely
to know the origin of such names of places at that sea-port as "The Land of Green Ginger,"
"Pig Alley," "Mucky-south-end," and "Rotten Herring Staith;" and I have come to the conclusion,
that "The Land of Green Ginger" was a very dirty place where horses were kept: a mews, in short,
which none of the Muses, not even with Homer as an exponent, could exalt ([Greek: Epea pteroenta
en athanatoisi theoisi]) into the regions of poesy.

Ginger has been cultivated in this country as a stove exotic for about two hundred and fifty
years. In one of the histories of Hull, ginger is supposed to have grown in this street, where,
to a recent period, the stables of the George Inn, and those of a person named Foster opposite,
occupied the principal portion of the short lane called "Land of Green Ginger." It is hardly
possible that the true zingiber can have grown here, even in the manure heaps; but a plant
of the same order (Zingiberaceæ) may have been mistaken for it. Some of the old women or marine
school-boys of the Trinity House, in the adjoining lane named from that guild, or some druggist,
may have dropped, either accidentally or experimentally, a root, if not of the ginger, yet
of some kindred plant. The magnificent Fuchsia was first noticed in the possession of a seaman's
wife by Fuchs in 1501, a century prior to the introduction of the ginger plant into England.

T. J. BUCKTON.

  Birmingham.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Stereoscopic Angles.--The discussion in "N. & Q." relative to the best angle for stereoscopic
pictures has gone far towards a satisfactory conclusion: there are, however, still a few points
which may be beneficially considered.

In the first place, the kind of stereoscope to be used must tend to modify the mental impression;
and secondly, the amount of reduction from the size of the original has a considerable influence
on the final result.

If in viewing a stereoscopic pair of photographs, they are placed at the same distance from
the eyes as the length of the focus of the lens used in producing them, then without doubt
the distance between the eyes, viz. about two and a quarter {228} inches, is the best difference
between the two points of view to produce a perfectly natural result; and if the points of
operation be more distant from one another, as I have before intimated, an effect is produced
similar to what would be the case if the pictures were taken from a model of the object instead
of the object itself.

When it is intended that the pictures taken are to be viewed by an instrument that requires
their distance from the eyes to be less than the focal length of the lens used in their formation,
what is the result? Why, that they subtend an angle larger than in nature, and are consequently
apparently increased in bulk; and the obvious remedy is to increase the angle between the points
of generation in the exact ratio as that by which the visual distance is to be lessened. There
is one other consideration to which I would advert, viz. that as we judge of distance, &c.
mainly by the degree of convergence of the optic axes of our two eyes, it cannot be so good
to arrange the camera with its two positions quite parallel, especially for objects at a short
or medium distance, as to let its centre radiate from the principal object to be delineated;
and to accomplish this desideratum in the readiest way (for portraits especially), the ingenious
contrivance of Mr. Latimer Clark, described in the Journal of the Photographic Society, appears
to me the best adapted. It consists of a modification of the old parallel ruler arrangement
on which the camera is placed; but one of the sides has an adjustment, so that within certain
limits any degree of convergence is attainable. Now in the case of the pictures alluded to
by MR. H. WILKINSON in Vol. viii., p. 181., it is probable they were taken by a camera placed
in two positions parallel to one another, and it is quite clear that only a portion of the
two pictures could have been really stereoscopic. It is perfectly true that two indifferent
negatives will often combine and form one good stereoscopic positive, but this is in consequence
of one possessing that in which the other is deficient; and at any rate two good pictures will
have a better effect; consequently, it is better that the two views should contain exactly
the same range of vision.

GEO. SHADBOLT.

Protonitrate of Iron.--"Being in the habit of using protonitrate of iron for developing collodion
pictures, the following method of preparing that solution suggested itself to me, which appears
to possess great advantages:--

  Water                       1 oz.
  Protosulphate of iron      14 grs.
  Nitrate of potash          10 grs.
  Acetic acid                 ½ drm.
  Nitric acid                 2 drops.

In this mixture nitrate of potash is employed to convert the sulphate of iron into nitrate
in place of nitrate of baryta in Dr. Diamond's formula, or nitrate of lead as recommended by
Mr. Sisson; the advantage being that no filtering is required, as the sulphate of potash (produced
by the double decomposition) is soluble in water, and does not interfere with the developing
qualities of the solution.

"The above gives the bright deposit of silver so much admired in Dr. Diamond's pictures, and
will be found to answer equally well either for positives or negatives. If the nitric acid
be omitted, we obtain the effects of protonitrate of iron prepared in the usual way.--JOHN
SPILLER."

(From the Photographic Journal.)

Photographs in natural Colours.--As "N. & Q." numbers among its correspondents many residents
in the United States, I hope you will permit me to inquire through its columns whether there
is really any foundation for the very startling announcement, in Professor Hunt's Photography,
of Mr. Hill of New York having "obtained more than fifty pictures from nature in all the beauty
of native coloration," or whether the statement is, as I conclude Professor Hunt is inclined
to believe, one of those hoaxes in which many of our transatlantic friends take so much delight.

MATTER-OF-FACT.

Photographs by artificial Lights.--May I ask for references to any manuals of photography,
or papers in scientific journals, in which are recorded any experiments that have been made
with the view of obtaining photographs by means of artificial lights? This is, I have no doubt,
a subject of interest to many who, like myself, are busily occupied during the day, and have
only their evenings for scientific pursuits: while it is obvious, that if such a process can
be successfully practised, there are many objects--such as prints, coins, seals, objects of
natural history and antiquity--which might well be copied by it, even though artificial light
should prove far slower in its action than solar light.

A CLERK.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Vandyke in America (Vol. viii., p. 182.).--I would take the liberty of asking MR. BALCH of
Philadelphia whom he means by Col. Hill and Col. Byrd, "worthies famous in English history,
and whose portraits by Vandyke are now on the James River?" I know of no Col. Hill or Byrd
whom Vandyke could possibly have painted. I should also like to know what proof there is that
the pictures, whomsoever they represent, are by Vandyke. MR. BALCH says that he favours us
with this information "in answer to the query" (Vol. vii., p. 38.); but I beg leave to observe
that it is by no means "in answer to the query," which was about an engraved portrait and not
picture, and {229} his thus bringing in the Vandykes à propos de bottes makes me a little curious
about their authenticity.

C.

Title wanted--Choirochorographia (Vol. viii., p. 151.).--The full title of the book inquired
after is as follows:

    "[Greek: Choirochôrographia]: sive, Hoglandiæ Descriptio.--Plaudite
    Porcelli Porcorum pigra Propago (Eleg. Poet.): Londini, Anno Domini
    1709. Pretium 2^d," 8vo.

The printer, as appears from the advertisement at the end of the volume, was Henry Hills. The
middle of the title-page is occupied by a coarsely executed woodcut, representing a boar with
barbed instrument in his snout, and similar instrument on a larger scale under the head, surmounted
with some rude characters, which I read

 "TURX TRVYE BEVIS O HAMTVN."

The dedication is headed, "Augusto admodum & undiquaq; Spectabili Heroi Domini H---- S----
Maredydius Caduganus Pymlymmonensis, S.P.D." The entire work appears to be written in ridicule
of Hampshire, and to be intended as a retaliation for work written by Edward Holdsworth, of
Magd. Coll. Oxford, entitled Muscipula, sive [Greek: kambro-muo-machia], published by the same
printer in the same year, and translated by Dr. Hoadly in the fifth volume of Dodsley's Miscellany,
p. 277., edit. 1782.

Query, Who was the author? and had Holdsworth any farther connexion with Hampshire than that
of having been educated at Winchester School?

J. F. M.

Second Growth of Grass (Vol. viii., p. 102.).--R. W. F. of Bath inquires for other names than
"fog," &c. In Sussex we leave "rowens," or "rewens" (the latter, I believe, a corruption),
used for the second growth of grass.

Halliwell, in his Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words, has "Rowens, after-grass," as
a Suffolk word. Bailey gives the word, with a somewhat different signification; but he has
"Rowen hay, latter hay," as a country word.

WILLIAM FIGG.

  Lewes.

In Norfolk this is called "aftermath eddish," and "rowans" or "rawins."

The first term is evidently from the A.-S. mæth, mowing or math: Bosworth's Dictionary. Eddish
is likewise from the A.-S. edisc, signifying the second growth; it is used by Tusser, October's
Husbandry, stanza 4.:

 "Where wheat upon eddish ye mind to bestow,
  Let that be the first of the wheat ye do sow."

Rawings also occurs in Tusser, and in the Promptorium Parvulorum, rawynhey is mentioned. In
Bailey's Dictionary it is spelt rowen and roughings: this last form gives the etymology, for
rowe, as may be seen in Halliwell, is an old form for rough.

E. G. R.

I have always heard it called in Northumberland, fog; in Norfolk, after-math; in Oxfordshire,
I am told, it is latter-math. This term is pure A.-Saxon, mæth, the mowing; the former word
fog, and eddish also, are to be found in dictionaries, but their derivation is not satisfactory.

C. I. R.

Snail eating (Vol. viii., p. 34).--The beautiful specimens of the large white snails were brought
from Italy by Single-speech Hamilton, a gentleman of vertù and exquisite taste, and placed
in the grounds at Paynes Hill, and some fine statues likewise. On the change of property, the
snails were dispersed about the country; and many of them were picked up by my grandfather,
who lived at the Grove under Boxhill, near Dorking. They were found in the hedges about West
Humble, and in the grounds of the Grove. I had this account from my mother; and had once some
of the shells, which I had found when staying in Surrey.

JULIA R. BOCKETT.

  Southcote Lodge.

The snails asked after by MR. H. T. RILEY are to be met with near Dorking. When in that neighbourhood
one day in May last, I found two in the hedgerow on the London road (west side) between Dorking
and Box Hill. They are much larger than the common snail, the shells of a light brown, and
the flesh only slightly tinged with green. I identified them by a description and drawing given
in an excellent book for children, the Parent's Cabinet, which also states that they are to
be found about Box Hill.

G. ROGERS LONG.

The large white snail (Helix pomatia) is found in abundance about Box Hill in Surrey. It is
also plentiful near Stonesfield in Oxfordshire, where have, at different periods, been discovered
considerable remains of Roman villas; and it has been suggested that this snail was introduced
by the former inhabitants of those villas.

W. C. TREVELYAN.

  Wallington.

Sotades (Vol. vii., p. 417.).--Sotades is the supposed inventor of Palindromic verses (see
Mr. Sands' Specimens of Macaronic Poetry, p. 5., 1831. His enigma on "Madam" was written by
Miss Ritson of Lowestoft).

S. Z. Z. S.

The Letter "h" in "humble" (Vol. viii., p. 54).--The question has been raised by one of your
correspondents (and I have not observed any reply thereto), as to whether it is a peculiarity
of Londoners to pronounce the h in humble. If, as a Londoner by birth and residence, I might
be allowed to answer the Query, I should say that {230} the h is never heard in humble, except
when the word is pronounced from the pulpit. I believe it to be one of those, either Oxford
or Cambridge, or both, peculiarities, of which no reasonable explanation can be given.

I should be glad to hear whether any satisfactory general rule has been laid down as to when
the h should be sounded, and when not. The only rule which occurs to me is to pronounce it
in all words coming to us from the Celtic "stock," and to pass it unsounded in those which
are of Latin origin. If this rule be admitted, the pronunciation sanctioned by the pulpit and
Mr. Dickens is condemned.

BENJAMIN DAWSON.

  London.

Lord North (Vol. vii., p. 317. Vol. viii., p. 184.).--Is M. E. of Philadelphia laughing at
us, when he refers us to a woodcut in some American pictorial publication on the American Revolution
for a true portraiture of the figure and features of King George III.; different, I presume,
from that which I gave you. His woodcut, he says, is taken "from an English engraving;" he
does not tell us who either painter or engraver was--but no matter. We have hundreds of portraits
by the best hands which confirm my description, which moreover was the result of personal observation:
for, from the twentieth to the thirtieth years of my life, I had frequent and close opportunities
of approaching his Majesty. I cannot but express my surprise that "N. & Q." should have given
insertion to anything so absurd--to use the gentlest term--as M. E.'s appeal to his "woodcut." 58.

W. FRASER.

  Tor-Mohun.

Dimidiation by Impalement (Vol. vii., p. 630.).--Your correspondent D. P. concludes his notice
on this subject by doubting if any instance of "Dimidiation by Impalement" can be found since
the time of Henry VIII. If he turn to Anderson's Diplomata Scotiæ (p. 164. and 90.), he will
find that Mary Queen of Scots bore the arms of France dimidiated with those of Scotland from
A.D. 1560 to December 1565. This coat she bore as Queen Dowager of France, from the death of
her first husband, the King of France, until her marriage with Darnley.

T. H. DE H.

"Inter cuncta micans," &c. (Vol. vi, p. 413.; Vol. vii., p. 510.).--The following translation
is by the Rev. Geo. Greig of Kennington. It preserves the acrostic and mesostic, though not
the telestic, form of the original:

 "In glory rising see the sun,          Illustrious orb of day,
  Enlightening heaven's wide expanse,   Expel night's gloom away.
  So light into the darkest soul,     JESUS, Thou dost impart,
  Uplifting Thy life-giving smiles      Upon the deaden'd heart;
  Sun Thou of Righteousness Divine,     Sole King of Saints Thou art."

H. T. GRIFFITH.

  Hull. Hec. 612. "Widowed wife and
wedded maid," occurs in Vanda's prophecy; Sir W. Scott's The Betrothed,
ch. xv.

S. Z. Z. S.

Pure (Vol. viii., p. 125.).--The use of the word pure pointed out by OXONIENSIS is nothing
new. It is a common provincialism now, and was formerly good English. Here are two examples
from Swift (Letters, by Hawkesworth, vol. iv. 1768, p.21.):

    "Ballygall will be a pure good place for air."

Ibid. p. 29.:

    "Have you smoakt the Tattler yet? It is much liked, and I think it a
    pure one."

C. MANSFIELD INGLEBY.

  Birmingham.

"Purely, I thank you," is a common reply of the country folks in this part when accosted as
to their health. I recollect once asking a market-woman about her son who had been ill, and
received for an answer: "Oh he's quite fierce again, thank you, Sir." Meaning, of course, that
he had quite recovered.

NORRIS DECK.

  Cambridge.

Mrs. Tighe (Vol. viii., p. 103.).--"There is a likeness of Mrs. Henry Tighe, the authoress
of 'Psyche,' in the Ladies' Monthly Museum for February, 1818. It is engraved by J. Hopwood,
jun., from a drawing by Miss Emma Drummond. Underneath the engraving referred to, are the words
'Mrs. Henry Tighe;' but she is called in {231} the memoir, 'wife of William Tighe, Esq., M.P.
for Wicklow, whose residence is Woodstock, county of Kilkenny, author of The Plants, a poem,
8vo.: published in 1808 and 1811; and Statistical Observations on the County of Kilkenny, 1800.
Mrs. Tighe is described as having had a pleasing person, and a countenance that indicated melancholy
and deep reflection; was amiable in her domestic relations; had a mind well stored with classic
literature; and, with strong feelings and affections, expressed her thoughts with the nicest
discrimination, and taste the most refined and delicate. Thus endued, it is to be regretted
that Mrs. Tighe should have fallen a victim to a lingering disease of six years at the premature
age of thirty-seven, on March 24, 1810.'--The remainder of the short notice does not throw
any additional light on Mrs. Tighe, or family; but if you, Sir, or the Editor of "N. & Q."
wish, I will cheerfully transcribe it.--I am, Sir, yours in haste,

VIX.

 "Belfast, Aug. 15."

    [We are indebted for the above reply to the Dublin Weekly Telegraph,
    which not only does us the honour to quote very freely from our pages,
    but always most liberally acknowledges the source from which the
    articles so quoted are derived.]

Satirical Medal (Vol. viii., p. 57.).--I have seen the same medal of Sir R. Walpole (the latest
instance of the mediæval hell-mouth with which I am acquainted) bearing on the obverse--"THE
GENEROUSE (sic) DUKE OF ARGYLE;" and at the foot--"NO PENTIONS."

S. Z. Z. S.

"They shot him dead at the Nine-Stone Rig" (Vol. viii., p. 78.).--Your correspondent the BORDERER
will find the fragment of the ballad he is in search of commencing with the above line, in
the second volume of the Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border, p. 114. It is entitled "Barthram's
Dirge," and "was taken down," says Scott, "by Mr. Surtees, from the recitation of Anne Douglas,
an old woman, who weeded his garden."

Since the death of Mr. Surtees, however, it has been ascertained that this ballad, as well
as "The Death of Featherstonhaugh," and some others in the same collection, were composed by
him and passed off upon Scott as genuine old Scottish ballads.

Farther particulars respecting this clever literary imposition are given in a review of the
"Memoir of Robert Surtees," in the Athenæum of August 7, 1852.

J. K. R. W.

Hendericus du Booys: Helena Leonora de Sievéri (Vol. v., p. 370.).--Are two different portraits
of each of these two persons to be found? By no means. There exists, however, a plate of each,
engraved by C. Visscher; but the first impressions bear the address of E. du Booys, the later
that of E. Cooper. As I am informed by Mr. Bodel Nijenhuis, Hendericus du Booys took part in
the celebrated three-days' fight, Feb. 18, 19, and 20, 1653, between Blake and Tromp.--From
the Navorscher.

M.

House-marks, &c. (Vol. vii., p. 594. Vol. viii., p. 62.).--May I be allowed to inform MR. COLLYNS
that the custom he refers to is by no means of modern date. Nearly all the cattle which come
to Malta from Barbary to be stall-fed for consumption, or horses to be sold in the garrison,
bring with them their distinguishing marks by which they may be easily known.

And it may not be out of place to remark, that being one of a party in the winter of 1830,
travelling overland from Smyrna to Ephesus, we reached a place just before sunset where a roving
band of Turcomans had encamped for the night. On nearing these people we observed that the
women were preparing food for their supper, while the men were employed in branding with a
hot iron, under the camel's upper lip, their own peculiar mark,--a very necessary precaution,
it must be allowed, with people who are so well known for their pilfering propensities, not
only practised on each other, but also on all those who come within their neighbourhood. Having
as strangers paid our tribute to their great dexterity in their profession, the circumstance
was published at the time, and to this day is not forgotten.

W. W.

  Malta.

"Qui facit per alium, facit per se."--In Vol. vii., p. 488., I observe an attempt to trace
the source of the expression, "Qui facit per alium, facit per se." A few months since I met
with the quotation under some such form as "Qui facit per alium, per se facere videtur," in
the preface to a book on Surveying, by Fitzherbert (printed by Berthelet about 1535), where
it is attributed to St. Augustine. As I know of no copy of the works of that father in these
parts (though I heard him quoted last Sunday in the pulpit), I cannot at present verify the
reference.

J. SLEEDNOT.

  Halifax.

Engin-à-verge (Vol. vii., p. 619. Vol. viii., p. 65.).--H. C. K. is mistaken in his conjecture
respecting this word, as the following definition of it will show:

    "Engins-à-verge. Ils comprenaient les diverges espèces de catapultes,
    les pierriers, &c."--Bescherelle, Dictionnaire National.

B. H. C.

Campvere, Privileges of (Vol viii., p. 89.).--"Jus Gruis liberæ." Does not this mean the privilege
of using a crane to raise their goods free of dues, municipal or fiscal? Grus, grue, krahn,
{232} kraan, all mean, in their different languages, crane the bird, and crane the machine.

J. H. L.

Humbug--Ambages (Vol. viii., p. 64.).--May I be permitted to inform your correspondent that
Mr. May was certainly correct when using the word "ambages" as an English word in his translation
of Lucan.

In Howell's Dictionary, published in London in May 1660, I find it thus recorded

 "Ambages, or circumstances."
 "Full of ambages."

W. W.

  Malta.

"Going to Old Weston" (Vol. iii., p. 449.).--In turning over the pages of the third volume
of "N. & Q." recently, I stumbled on ARUN'S notice of the above proverb. It immediately struck
me that I had heard it used myself a few days before, without being conscious at the time of
the similarity of the expression. I was asking an old man, who had been absent from home, where
he had been to? His reply was, "To Old Weston, Sir. You know I must go there before I die."
Knowing that he had relatives living there, I did not, at the time, notice anything extraordinary
in the answer; but, since reading ARUN'S note, I have made some inquires, and find the saying
is a common one on this (the Northamptonshire) side of Old Weston, as well as in Huntingdonshire.
I have been unable to obtain any explanation of it, but think the one suggested by your correspondent
must be right. One of my informants (an old woman upwards of seventy) told me she had often
heard it used, and wondered what could be its meaning, when she was a child.

W. W.

  B---- Rectory, Northamptonshire.

Reynolds's Nephew (Vol. viii., p. 102.).--I think I can certify A. Z. that two distinct branches
of the Palmer family, the Deans, and another claiming like kindred to Sir Joshua Reynolds,
still exist; from which I conclude that Sir Joshua had at least two nephews of that name. I
regret that I cannot inform your correspondent as to the authorship of the piece about which
he inquires; but, in the event of A. Z. not receiving a satisfactory answer to his Query through
the medium of our publication, if he will furnish me with any farther particulars he may possess
on the subject, I shall be happy to try what I can do towards possessing him with the desired
information.

J. SANSOM.

  Oxford.

The Laird of Brodie (Vol. viii., p. 103.).--I. H. B. mistakes, I think, the meaning of the
lines. The idea is not that the Laird was less than a gentleman, but that he was a gentleman
of mark; at least, I have never heard any other interpretation put upon it in Scotland, where
the ballad of "We'll gang nae mair a-roving," is a great favourite. King James is the subject
of the ballad. That merry monarch made many lively escapades, and on this occasion he personated
a beggarman. The damsel, to whom he successfully paid his addresses, saw through the disguise
at first; but from the king's good acting, when he pretended to be afraid that the dongs would
"rive his meal pokes," she began to think she had been mistaken. Then she expressed her disgust
by saying, that she had thought her lover could not be anything less than the Laird of Brodie,
the highest untitled gentleman probably in the neighbourhood: implying that she suspected he
might be peer or prince.

W. C.

Mulciber (Vol. viii., p. 102).--It may not be a sufficient answer to MR. WARD'S Query, but
I wish to state that there was no "Mayor of Bromigham" until after the passing of the Reform
Bill. I think that it may be inferred from the extract given below, that the mayor was no more
a reality than the shield which he is said to have wrought:

 "His shield was wrought, if we may credit Fame,
  By Mulciber, the Mayor of Bromigham.
  A foliage of dissembl'd senna leaves
  Grav'd round its brim, the wond'ring sight deceives.
  Embost upon its field, a battle stood,
  Of leeches spouting hemorrhoidal blood.
  The artist too expresst the solemn state,
  Of grave physicians at a consult met;
  About each symptom how they disagree!
  But how unanimous in case of fee!
  And whilst one ass-ass-in another plies
  With starch'd civilities--the patient dyes."

N. W. S.

Voiding Knife (Vol. vi., pp. 150. 280.).--The following quotation from Leland will throw more
light on the ancient custom of voyding:

    "In the mean time the server geueth a voyder to the carver, and he doth
    voyde into it the trenchers that lyeth under the knyues point, and
    so cleanseth the tables cleane."--Collectanea, vol. vi. p. 11., "The
    Intronization of Nevill."

Q.

  Bloomsbury.

Sir John Vanbrugh (Vol. viii., pp. 65. 160.).--Previous to sending you my Query about the birthplace
of Sir John Vanbrugh, I had carefully gone through the Registers of the Holy Trinity parish,
Chester, and had discovered the baptisms or burials of seven sons and six daughters of Mr.
Giles Vanbrugh duly registered therein. Sir John's name is not included in the list; therefore,
if he was born in Chester, his baptism must have been registered at one of the many other parish
churches of this city. The registers of St. Peter's Church, a neighbouring parish, have also
been {233} examined, but contain no notice of the baptism of the future knight. I will, however,
continue the chace; and should I eventually fall in with the object of my search, will give
my fellow-labourers the benefit of my explorations. Mr. Vanbrugh sen. died at Chester, and
was buried with several of his children at Trinity Church, July 19, 1689.

T. HUGHES.

  Chester.

Portrait of Charles I.--The portrait of Charles I. by Vandyke (the subject of MR. BREEN'S Query,
"N. & Q.," Vol. viii., p. 151.) is no less than the celebrated picture in which the monarch
is represented standing, with his right hand resting on a walking cane, and his left (the arm
being beautifully foreshortened) against his hip; and immediately behind him his horse is held
by an equerry, supposed to be the Marquis of Hamilton. The picture hangs in the great square
room at the Louvre, close on the left hand of the usual entrance door, and is undoubtedly one
of the finest in that magnificent collection. As a portrait, it is without a rival. It is well
known in this country by the admirable engraving from it, executed in 1782, by Sir Robert Strange.

The description of this picture in the Catalogue for 1852 du Musée Nationale du Louvre, is
as follows:--

    "Gravé par Strange; par Bonnefoy; par Duparc;--Filhol, t. 1. pl. 5.

    "Collection de Louis XV.--Ce tableau, qui a été exécuté vers 1635, ne
    fut payé à van Dyck que 100 livres sterling. En 1754, il faisait
    partie, suivant Descamps, du cabinet du marquis de Lassay. On trouve
    cette note dans les mémoires secrets de Bachaument," &c.

Then follows the passage quoted by MR. BREEN. I can find no mention of a
Dubarry among the ancestors of the monarch.
      Wordsworth, White Doe of Rylstone, Canto I.,
          p. 5., line 17., new edition, 1837.

See note on line 17 taken from Whitaker's Craven:

    "At the east end of the north aisle of Bolton Priory Church is a
    chantry belonging to Bethmesley Hall, and a vault where, according to
    tradition, the Claphams were buried upright."

F. W. J.

Strut-Stowers and Yeathers or Yadders (Vol. viii., p. 148.).--The former of these words is,
I believe, obsolete, or nearly so. It means bracing-stakes: strut, in carpentry, is to brace;
and stower is a small kind of stake, as distinguished from the "ten stakes" mentioned in the
legend quoted by MR. COOPER.

The other word, Yeather or Yadder, is yet in use in Northumberland (vid. Brockett's Glossary),
and is mentioned by Charlton in his History of Whitby. The legend referred to by MR. COOPER
is, I suspect, of modern origin but Dr. Young, in his History of Whitby, vol. i. p. 310., attributes
it to some of the monks of the abbey; on what grounds he does not say. The records of the abbey
contain no allusion to the legend; and no ancient MS. of it, either in Latin or English, has
ever been produced. The penny-hedge is yearly renewed to this day but it is a service performed
for a different reason than that attributed in the legend. (See Young and Charlton's histories.)

F. M.

The term strut is commonly used by carpenters for a brace or stay. Stower, in Bailey's Dictionary,
is a stake; Halliwell spells it stoure, and says it is still in use. Forby connects the Norfolk
word stour, stiff, inflexible, applied to standing corn, with this word, which he says is Lowland
Scotch, and derives them both from Sui.-G. stoer, stipes. A yeather or yadder seems to be a
rod to wattle the stakes with. In Norfolk, wattling a live fence is called ethering it, which
word, evidently with yeather, may be derived from A.-S. ether or edor, a hedge. The barons,
therefore, had to drive their stakes perpendicularly into the sand, to put the strut-stowers
diagonally to enable them to withstand the force of the tide, and finally to wattle them together
with the yeathers.

E. G. R.

Arms of See of York (Vol. viii., p. 111.).--It appears that the arms of the See of York were
certainly changed during Wolsey's time, for on the vaulting of Christ Church Gate, Canterbury,
is a shield bearing (in sculpture) the same arms as those now used by the Metropolitan See
of Canterbury, impaling those of Wolsey, and over the shield a cardinal's hat. This gateway
was built in 1517; yet in the parliament roll of 6th Henry VIII., 1515, the keys and crown
are impaled with the arms of Wolsey as Archbishop of York (see fac-simile, published by Willement,
4to. Lond. 1829), showing that the alteration was not generally known when the gateway was built.

Although the charges on the earlier arms of the See of York were the same as on that of Canterbury,
the colours of their fields differed; for in a north window of the choir of York Minster is
a shield of arms, bearing the arms of Archbishop Bowett, who held the see from 1407 to 1423,
impaled by the pall and pastoral staff, on a field gules. The glass is to all appearance of
the fifteenth century.

T. WT.

{234}

Leman Family (Vol. viii., p. 150.).--Without being able to give a substantial reply to R. W.
L.'s Query, it may assist him to know that Sir John Leman had but one brother (William), who
certainly did not emigrate from his native land. Sir John died, March 26, 1632, without issue;
and was buried in the chancel of St. Michael, Crooked Lane, London. His elder brother, William,
had five sons; all settled comfortably in England, and not at all likely to have left their
native country. One of the Heralds' Visitations for the counties of Norfolk or Suffolk would
materially assist your Philadelphian correspondent.

T. HUGHES.

  Chester

Position of Font (Vol. vii., p. 149.).--In the church of Milton near Cambridge, the font is
built into the north pier of the chancel arch; and from the appearance of the masonry, &c.,
this is evidently the original position. I have visited some hundreds of churches, and this
is the only instance I have observed of a font in this position. Numerous instances occur where
it is built into the south-western pier of the nave.

NORRIS DECK.

  Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

Our worthy publisher has just issued a volume which will be welcome, for the excellence of
its matter and the beauty of its various illustrations, to all archæologists. These Memoirs
illustrative of the History and Antiquities of Bristol and the Western Counties of Great Britain,
and other Communications made to the Annual Meeting of the Archæological Institute held at
Bristol in 1851, certainly equal in interest and variety any of their predecessors, and whether
as a memorial of their visit to Bristol to those who attended the meeting, or as a pleasant
substitute to those who did not, will doubtless find a resting-place on the shelf of every
member of the Society whose proceedings they record.

We cannot better recommend to our readers Dr. Madden's newly published Life and Martyrdom of
Savonarola, illustrative of the History of Church and State Connexion, than by stating that
this remarkable man, whom some Protestants have claimed as of their own creed, while as many
Romanists have rejected him as a heretic, is viewed by Dr. Madden as a monk of Florence at
the close of the fifteenth century, who was of opinion that the mortal enemy of Christ's gospel
in all ages of the world had been mammon; that simony was the sin against the Holy Ghost; that
the interests of religion were naturally allied with those of liberty; that the Arts were the
handmaids of both, of a Divine origin, and were given to earth for purposes that tended to
spiritualise humanity; and who directed all his teachings, preachings, and writings to one
great object, namely, the separation of religion from all worldly influences. On this theme
Dr. Madden discourses with great learning, and, some few passages excepted, with great moderation;
and the result is a Life of Savonarola, which gives a far more complete view of his character
and his writings than has heretofore been attempted.

BOOKS RECEIVED.--History of England from the Peace of Utrecht to the Peace of Versailles, by
Lord Mahon, Vol. V. This volume embraces the period between the early years of George III.
and 1774, when Franklin was dismissed from his office of Deputy Postmaster-General; and, as
it includes the Junius period, gives occasion to Lord Mahon to avow his adherence to "the Franciscan
theory;" while the Appendix contains two letters in support of the same view,--one from Sir
James Macintosh, and one from Mr. Macaulay.--Confessions of a Working Man, from the French
of Emile Souvestre. This interesting narrative, well deserving the attention both of masters
and working men, forms Part XLVIII. of Longman's Traveller's Library.--Remains of Pagan Saxondom,
principally from Tumuli in England, drawn from the Originals: described and illustrated by
J. Y. Akerman, Part VI. containing coloured engravings of the size of the originals of Fibulæ
and Bullæ, from cemeteries in Kent; and Fibulæ, Beads, &c. from a grave near Stamford.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

  HISTORY AND ANTIQUITIES OF NEWBURY. 8vo. 1839. 340 pages. Two Copies.
  VANCOUVER'S SURVEY OF HAMPSHIRE.
  HEMINGWAY'S HISTORY OF CHESTER. Large Paper. Parts I. and III.
  CORRESPONDENCE ON THE FORMATION OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC BIBLE SOCIETY. 8vo.
      London, 1813.
  ATHENÆUM JOURNAL for 1844.
  HOWARD FAMILY, HISTORICAL ANECDOTES OF, by Charles Howard. 1769. 12mo.
  TOOKE'S DIVERSON'S OF PURLEY.
  NUCES PHILOSOPHICÆ, by E. Johnson.
  PARADISE LOST. First Edition.
  SHARPE'S (Sir Cuthbert) BISHOPRICK GARLAND. 1834.
  LASHLEY'S YORK MISCELLANY. 1734.
  DIBDIN'S TYPOGRAPHICAL ANTIQUITIES. 4to. Vol. II.
  BAYLEY'S LONDINIANA. Vol. II. 1829.
  THE SCRIPTURE DOCTRINE OF THE TRINITY JUSTIFIED. 1774.
  PARKHURST ON THE DIVINITY OF OUR SAVIOUR. 1787
  BERRIMAN'S SEASONABLE REVIEW OF WHISTON'S DOXOLOGIES. 1719.
  ---------- SECOND REVIEW. 1719.

S. Z. Z. S. We have a letter for this Correspondent; how shall it be forwarded?

J. S. G. (Howden) is thanked for his collection of Proverbial Sayings--all of which are however,
we believe, too well known to justify their republication in our columns.

Y. S. M. would oblige us by naming the subject of the communications to which he refers.

PHOTOGRAPHY. MR. SISSON's communication is unavoidably postponed until our next Number, in
which MR. LYTE's Three New Processes will also appear.

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED, for the Ladies' Institute, 83. Regent Street, Quadrant, LADIES of taste for fancy work,--by
paying 21s. will be received as members, and taught the new style of velvet wool work, which
is acquired in a few easy lessons. Each lady will be guaranteed constant employment and ready
cash payment for her work. Apply personally to Mrs. Thoughey. N.B. Ladies taught by letter
at any distance from London.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO ALL WHO HAVE FARMS OR GARDENS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PERSIAN BOOKS AND MANUSCRIPTS.

FIRDOUSI'S SHAH NAMEH, by MURAN, 4 vols. royal 8vo., Calcutta, 1809, hlf. calf, neat, 6l. 16s.--Timur
Namah, Persian MS., folio, yellow morocco extra, 5l. 5s.--Ferheng Jehangiry, with the Chattmeh,
Persian MS., 2vols. folio, calf, 3l. 3s.--Nizami's Works, a Superb Persian MS., stout folio,
red morocco, 16l.--Sold by

BERNARD QUARITCH, Oriental Bookseller, 16. Castle Street, Leicester Square.

*** B. Q.'s Catalogue of Books in all the Languages of the World is published Monthly, and
is sent Gratis on Receipt of 12 Postage Stamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

DAGUERROTYPE MATERIALS.--Plates, Cases, Passepartoutes, Best and Cheapest.

       *       *       *       *       *

8vo., price 21s.

SOME ACCOUNT of DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE in ENGLAND, from the Conquest to the end of the Thirteenth
Century, with numerous Illustrations of Existing Remains from Original Drawings. By T. HUDSON
TURNER.

    "What Horace Walpole attempted, and what Sir Charles Lock Eastlake has
    done for oil-painting--elucidated its history and traced its progress
    in England by means of the records of expenses and mandates of the
    successive Sovereigns of the realm--Mr. Hudson Turner has now achieved
    for Domestic Architecture in this century during the twelfth and
    thirteenth centuries."--Architect.

    "The writer of the present volume ranks among the most intelligent of
    the craft, and a careful perusal of its contents will convince the
    reader of the enormous amount of labour bestowed on its minutest
    details as well as the discriminating judgement presiding over the
    general arrangement."--Morning Chronicle.

    "The book of which the title is given above is one of the very few
    attempts that have been made in this country to treat this interesting
    subject in anything more than a superficial manner.

    "Mr. Turner exhibits much learning and research, and he has
    consequently laid before the reader much interesting information. It is
    a book that was wanted, and that affords us some relief from the mass
    of works on Ecclesiastical Architecture with which of late years we
    have been deluged.

    "The work is well illustrated throughout with wood-engravings of the
    more interesting remains, and will prove a valuable addition to the
    antiquary's library."--Literary Gazette.

    "It is as a text-book on the social comforts and condition of the
    Squires and Gentry of England during the twelfth and thirteenth
    centuries, that the leading value of Mr. Turner's present publication
    will be found to consist.

    "Turner's handsomely-printed volume is profusely illustrated with
    careful woodcuts of all important existing remains, made from drawings
    by Mr. Blore and Mr. Twopeny."--Athenæum.

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now ready, price 21s. uniform with the above,

THE DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES. Vol. II.--THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY. By the Editor
of "The Glossary of Architecture."

This volume is issued on the plan adopted by the late Mr. Hudson Turner in the previous volume:
viz., collecting matter relating to Domestic buildings of the period, from cotemporary records,
and applying the information so acquired to the existing remains.

Not only does the volume contain much curious information both as to the buildings and manners
and customs of the time, but it is also hoped that the large collection of careful Engravings
of the finest examples will prove as serviceable to the profession and their employers in building
mansions, as the Glossary was found to be in building churches.

The Text is interspersed throughout with numerous woodcuts.

JOHN HENRY PARKER, Oxford; and 377. Strand, London.

1. ALBERT TERRACE, NEW CROSS, HATCHAM, SURREY.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

page 215, "MONUMENTAL INSCRIPTION IN PETERBOROUGH CATHEDRAL.": 'PETERBOROUH' in original.

page 216, "In this dilemma": 'dilemna' in original.

page 221, "from the ninth to the twelfth centuries": spurious 'in' before 'from' in original.

