And in the house there were books. The rubbish old Lady Drew read I never saw; stuff of the
Maria Monk type, I have since gathered, had a fascination for her; but back in the past there
had been a Drew of intellectual enterprise, Sir Cuthbert, the son of Sir Matthew who built
the house; and thrust away, neglected and despised, in an old room upstairs, were books and
treasures of his that my mother let me rout among during a spell of wintry wet. Sitting under
a dormer window on a shelf above great stores of tea and spices, I became familiar with much
of Hogarth in a big portfolio, with Raphael, there was a great book of engravings from the
stanzas of Raphael in the Vatican--and with most of the capitals of Europe as they had looked
about 1780, by means of several pig iron-moulded books of views. There was also a broad eighteenth
century atlas with huge wandering maps that instructed me mightily. It had splendid adornments
about each map title; Holland showed a fisherman and his boat; Russia a Cossack; Japan, remarkable
people attired in pagodas--I say it deliberately, "pagodas." There were Terrae Incognitae in
every continent then, Poland, Sarmatia, lands since lost; and many a voyage I made with a blunted
pin about that large, incorrect and dignified world. The books in that little old closet had
been banished, I suppose, from the saloon during the Victorian revival of good taste and emasculated
orthodoxy, but my mother had no suspicion of their character. So I read and understood the
good sound rhetoric of Tom Paine's "Rights of Man," and his "Common Sense," excellent books,
once praised by bishops and since sedulously lied about. Gulliver was there unexpurgated, strong
meat for a boy perhaps but not too strong I hold--I have never regretted that I escaped niceness
in these affairs. The satire of Traldragdubh made my blood boil as it was meant to do, but
I hated Swift for the Houyhnhnms and never quite liked a horse afterwards. Then I remember
also a translation of Voltaire's "Candide," and "Rasselas;" and, vast book though it was, I
really believe I read, in a muzzy sort of way of course, from end to end, and even with some
reference now and then to the Atlas, Gibbon--in twelve volumes.

These readings whetted my taste for more, and surreptitiously I raided the bookcases in the
big saloon. I got through quite a number of books before my sacrilegious temerity was discovered
by Ann, the old head-housemaid. I remember that among others I tried a translation of Plato's
"Republic" then, and found extraordinarily little interest in it; I was much too young for
that; but "Vathek"--"Vathek" was glorious stuff. That kicking affair! When everybody HAD to kick!

The thought of "Vathek" always brings back with it my boyish memory of the big saloon at Bladesover.

It was a huge long room with many windows opening upon the park, and each window--there were
a dozen or more reaching from the floor up--had its elaborate silk or satin curtains, heavily
fringed, a canopy (is it?) above, its completely white shutters folding into the deep thickness
of the wall. At either end of that great still place was an immense marble chimney-piece; the
end by the bookcase showed the wolf and Romulus and Remus, with Homer and Virgil for supporters;
the design of the other end I have forgotten. Frederick, Prince of Wales, swaggered flatly
over the one, twice life-size, but mellowed by the surface gleam of oil; and over the other
was an equally colossal group of departed Drews as sylvan deities, scantily clad, against a
storm-rent sky. Down the centre of the elaborate ceiling were three chandeliers, each bearing
some hundreds of dangling glass lustres, and over the interminable carpet--it impressed me
as about as big as Sarmatia in the store-room Atlas--were islands and archipelagoes of chintz-covered
chairs and couches, tables, great Sevres vases on pedestals, a bronze man and horse. Somewhere
in this wilderness one came, I remember, upon--a big harp beside a lyre-shaped music stand,
and a grand piano....

The book-borrowing raid was one of extraordinary dash and danger.

One came down the main service stairs--that was legal, and illegality began in a little landing
when, very cautiously, one went through a red baize door. A little passage led to the hall,
and here one reconnoitered for Ann, the old head-housemaid--the younger housemaids were friendly
and did not count. Ann located, came a dash across the open space at the foot of that great
staircase that has never been properly descended since powder went out of fashion, and so to
the saloon door. A beast of an oscillating Chinaman in china, as large as life, grimaced and
quivered to one's lightest steps. That door was the perilous place; it was double with the
thickness of the wall between, so that one could not listen beforehand for the whisk of the
feather-brush on the other side. Oddly rat-like, is it not, this darting into enormous places
in pursuit of the abandoned crumbs of thought?

And I found Langhorne's "Plutarch" too, I remember, on those shelves. It seems queer to me
now to think that I acquired pride and self-respect, the idea of a state and the germ of public
spirit, in such a furtive fashion; queer, too, that it should rest with an old Greek, dead
these eighteen hundred years to teach that.

VI

The school I went to was the sort of school the Bladesover system permitted. The public schools
that add comic into existence in the brief glow of the Renascence had been taken possession
of by the ruling class; the lower classes were not supposed to stand in need of schools, and
our middle stratum got the schools it deserved, private schools, schools any unqualified pretender
was free to establish. Mine was kept by a man who had had the energy to get himself a College
of Preceptors diploma, and considering how cheap his charges were, I will readily admit the
place might have been worse. The building was a dingy yellow-brick residence outside the village,
with the schoolroom as an outbuilding of lath and plaster.

I do not remember that my school-days were unhappy--indeed I recall a good lot of fine mixed
fun in them--but I cannot without grave risk of misinterpretation declare that we were at all
nice and refined. We fought much, not sound formal fighting, but "scrapping" of a sincere and
murderous kind, into which one might bring one's boots--it made us tough at any rate--and several
of us were the sons of London publicans, who distinguished "scraps" where one meant to hurt
from ordered pugilism, practising both arts, and having, moreover, precocious linguistic gifts.
Our cricket-field was bald about the wickets, and we played without style and disputed with
the umpire; and the teaching was chiefly in the hands of a lout of nineteen, who wore ready-made
clothes and taught despicably. The head-master and proprietor taught us arithmetic, algebra,
and Euclid, and to the older boys even trigonometry, himself; he had a strong mathematical
bias, and I think now that by the standard of a British public school he did rather well by us.

We had one inestimable privilege at that school, and that was spiritual neglect. We dealt with
one another with the forcible simplicity of natural boys, we "cheeked," and "punched" and "clouted";
we thought ourselves Red Indians and cowboys and such-like honourable things, and not young
English gentlemen; we never felt the strain of "Onward Christian soldiers," nor were swayed
by any premature piety in the cold oak pew of our Sunday devotions. All that was good. We spent
our rare pennies in the uncensored reading matter of the village dame's shop, on the Boys of
England, and honest penny dreadfuls--ripping stuff, stuff that anticipated Haggard and Stevenson,
badly printed and queerly illustrated, and very very good for us. On our half-holidays we were
allowed the unusual freedom of rambling in twos and threes wide and far about the land, talking
experimentally, dreaming wildly. There was much in those walks! To this day the landscape of
the Kentish world, with its low broad distances, its hop gardens and golden stretches of wheat,
its oasts and square church towers, its background of downland and hangers, has for me a faint
sense of adventure added to the pleasure of its beauty. We smoked on occasion, but nobody put
us up to the proper "boyish" things to do; we never "robbed an orchard" for example, though
there were orchards all about us, we thought stealing was sinful, we stole incidental apples
and turnips and strawberries from the fields indeed, but in a criminal inglorious fashion,
and afterwards we were ashamed. We had our days of adventure, but they were natural accidents,
our own adventures. There was one hot day when several of us, walking out towards Maidstone,
were incited by the devil to despise ginger beer, and we fuddled ourselves dreadfully with
ale; and a time when our young minds were infected to the pitch of buying pistols, by the legend
of the Wild West. Young Roots from Highbury came back with a revolver and cartridges, and we
went off six strong to live a free wild life one holiday afternoon. We fired our first shot
deep in the old flint mine at Chiselstead, and nearly burst our ear drums; then we fired in
a primrose studded wood by Pickthorn Green, and I gave a false alarm of "keeper," and we fled
in disorder for a mile. After which Roots suddenly shot at a pheasant in the high road by Chiselstead,
and then young Barker told lies about the severity of the game laws and made Roots sore afraid,
and we hid the pistol in a dry ditch outside the school field. A day or so after we got in
again, and ignoring a certain fouling and rusting of the barrel, tried for a rabbit at three
hundred yards. Young Roots blew a molehill at twenty paces into a dust cloud, burnt his fingers,
and scorched his face; and the weapon having once displayed this strange disposition to flame
back upon the shooter, was not subsequently fired.

One main source of excitement for us was "cheeking" people in vans and carts upon the Goudhurst
road; and getting myself into a monstrous white mess in the chalk pits beyond the village,
and catching yellow jaundice as a sequel to bathing stark naked with three other Adamites,
old Ewart leading that function, in the rivulet across Hickson's meadows, are among my memorabilia.
Those free imaginative afternoons! how much they were for us! how much they did for us! All
streams came from the then undiscovered "sources of the Nile" in those days, all thickets were
Indian jungles, and our best game, I say it with pride, I invented. I got it out of the Bladesover
saloon. We found a wood where "Trespassing" was forbidden, and did the "Retreat of the Ten
Thousand" through it from end to end, cutting our way bravely through a host of nettle beds
that barred our path, and not forgetting to weep and kneel when at last we emerged within sight
of the High Road Sea. So we have burst at times, weeping and rejoicing, upon startled wayfarers.
Usually I took the part of that distinguished general Xenophen--and please note the quantity
of the o. I have all my classical names like that,--Socrates rhymes with Bates for me, and
except when the bleak eye of some scholar warns me of his standards of judgment, I use those
dear old mispronunciations still. The little splash into Latin made during my days as a chemist
washed off nothing of the habit. Well,--if I met those great gentlemen of the past with their
accents carelessly adjusted I did at least meet them alive, as an equal, and in a living tongue.
Altogether my school might easily have been worse for me, and among other good things it gave
me a friend who has lasted my life out.

This was Ewart, who is now a monumental artist at Woking, after many vicissitudes. Dear chap,
how he did stick out of his clothes to be sure! He was a longlimbed lout, ridiculously tall
beside my more youth full compactness, and, except that there was no black moustache under
his nose blob, he had the same round knobby face as he has to-day, the same bright and active
hazel brown eyes, the stare, the meditative moment, the insinuating reply. Surely no boy ever
played the fool as Bob Ewart used to play it, no boy had a readier knack of mantling the world
with wonder. Commonness vanished before Ewart, at his expository touch all things became memorable
and rare. From him I first heard tell of love, but only after its barbs were already sticking
in my heart. He was, I know now the bastard of that great improvident artist, Rickmann Ewart;
he brought the light of a lax world that at least had not turned its back upon beauty, into
the growing fermentation of my mind.

I won his heart by a version of Vathek, and after that we were inseparable yarning friends.
We merged our intellectual stock so completely that I wonder sometimes how much I did not become
Ewart, how much Ewart is not vicariously and derivatively me.

VII

And then when I had newly passed my fourteenth birthday, came my tragic disgrace.

It was in my midsummer holidays that the thing happened, and it was through the Honourable
Beatrice Normandy. She had "come into my life," as they say, before I was twelve.

She descended unexpectedly into a peaceful interlude that followed the annual going of those
Three Great Women. She came into the old nursery upstairs, and every day she had tea with us
in the housekeeper's room. She was eight, and she came with a nurse called Nannie; and to begin
with, I did not like her at all.

Nobody liked this irruption into the downstairs rooms; the two "gave trouble,"--a dire offence;
Nannie's sense of duty to her charge led to requests and demands that took my mother's breath
away. Eggs at unusual times, the reboiling of milk, the rejection of an excellent milk pudding--not
negotiated respectfully but dictated as of right. Nannie was a dark, longfeatured, taciturn
woman in a grey dress; she had a furtive inflexibility of manner that finally dismayed and
crushed and overcame. She conveyed she was "under orders"--like a Greek tragedy. She was that
strange product of the old time, a devoted, trusted servant; she had, as it were, banked all
her pride and will with the greater, more powerful people who employed her, in return for a
life-long security of servitude--the bargain was nonetheless binding for being implicit. Finally
they were to pension her, and she would die the hated treasure of a boarding-house. She had
built up in herself an enormous habit of reference to these upstairs people, she had curbed
down all discordant murmurings of her soul, her very instincts were perverted or surrendered.
She was sexless, her personal pride was all transferred, she mothered another woman's child
with a hard, joyless devotion that was at least entirely compatible with a stoical separation.
She treated us all as things that counted for nothing save to fetch and carry for her charge.
But the Honourable Beatrice could condescend.

The queer chances of later years come between me and a distinctly separated memory of that
childish face. When I think of Beatrice, I think of her as I came to know her at a later time,
when at last I came to know her so well that indeed now I could draw her, and show a hundred
little delicate things you would miss in looking at her. But even then I remember how I noted
the infinite delicacy of her childish skin and the fine eyebrow, finer than the finest feather
that ever one felt on the breast of a bird. She was one of those elfin, rather precocious little
girls, quick coloured, with dark hair, naturally curling dusky hair that was sometimes astray
over her eyes, and eyes that were sometimes impishly dark, and sometimes a clear brown yellow.
And from the very outset, after a most cursory attention to Rabbits, she decided that the only
really interesting thing at the tea-table was myself.

The elders talked in their formal dull way--telling Nannie the trite old things about the park
and the village that they told every one, and Beatrice watched me across the table with a pitiless
little curiosity that made me uncomfortable.

"Nannie," she said, pointing, and Nannie left a question of my mother's disregarded to attend
to her; "is he a servant boy?"

"S-s-sh," said Nannie. "He's Master Ponderevo."

"Is he a servant boy?" repeated Beatrice.

"He's a schoolboy," said my mother.

"Then may I talk to him, Nannie?"

Nannie surveyed me with brutal inhumanity. "You mustn't talk too much," she said to her charge,
and cut cake into fingers for her.

"No," she added decisively, as Beatrice made to speak.

Beatrice became malignant. Her eyes explored me with unjustifiable hostility. "He's got dirty
hands," she said, stabbing at the forbidden fruit. "And there's a fray to his collar."

Then she gave herself up to cake with an appearance of entire forgetfulness of me that filled
me with hate and a passionate desire to compel her to admire me.... And the next day before
tea, I did for the first time in my life, freely, without command or any compulsion, wash my hands.

So our acquaintance began, and presently was deepened by a whim of hers. She had a cold and
was kept indoors, and confronted Nannie suddenly with the alternative of being hopelessly naughty,
which in her case involved a generous amount of screaming unsuitable for the ears of an elderly,
shaky, rich aunt, or having me up to the nursery to play with her all the afternoon. Nannie
came downstairs and borrowed me in a careworn manner; and I was handed over to the little creature
as if I was some large variety of kitten. I had never had anything to do with a little girl
before, I thought she was more beautiful and wonderful and bright than anything else could
possibly be in life, and she found me the gentlest of slaves--though at the same time, as I
made evident, fairly strong. And Nannie was amazed to find the afternoon slip cheerfully and
rapidly away. She praised my manners to Lady Drew and to my mother, who said she was glad to
hear well of me, and after that I played with Beatrice several times. The toys she had remain
in my memory still as great splendid things, gigantic to all my previous experience of toys,
and we even went to the great doll's house on the nursery landing to play discreetly with that,
the great doll's house that the Prince Regent had given Sir Harry Drew's first-born (who died
at five), that was a not ineffectual model of Bladesover itself, and contained eighty-five
dolls and had cost hundreds of pounds. I played under imperious direction with that toy of glory.

I went back to school when that holiday was over, dreaming of beautiful things, and got Ewart
to talk to me of love; and I made a great story out of the doll's house, a story that, taken
over into Ewart's hands, speedily grew to an island doll's city all our own.

One of the dolls, I privately decided, was like Beatrice.

One other holiday there was when I saw something of her--oddly enough my memory of that second
holiday in which she played a part is vague--and then came a gap of a year, and then my disgrace.

VIII

Now I sit down to write my story and tell over again things in their order, I find for the
first time how inconsecutive and irrational a thing the memory can be. One recalls acts and
cannot recall motives; one recalls quite vividly moments that stand out inexplicably--things
adrift, joining on to nothing, leading nowhere. I think I must have seen Beatrice and her half-brother
quite a number of times in my last holiday at Bladesover, but I really cannot recall more than
a little of the quality of the circumstances. That great crisis of my boyhood stands out very
vividly as an effect, as a sort of cardinal thing for me, but when I look for details, particularly
details that led up to the crisis--I cannot find them in any developing order at all. This
halfbrother, Archie Garvell, was a new factor in the affair. I remember him clearly as a fair-haired,
supercilious looking, weedily-lank boy, much taller than I, but I should imagine very little
heavier, and that we hated each other by a sort of instinct from the beginning; and yet I cannot
remember my first meeting with him at all.

Looking back into these past things--it is like rummaging in a neglected attic that has experienced
the attentions of some whimsical robber--I cannot even account for the presence of these children
at Bladesover. They were, I know, among the innumerable cousins of Lady Drew, and according
to the theories of downstairs candidates for the ultimate possession of Bladesover. If they
were, their candidature was unsuccessful. But that great place, with all its faded splendour,
its fine furniture, its large traditions, was entirely at the old lady's disposition; and I
am inclined to think it is true that she used this fact to torment and dominate a number of
eligible people. Lord Osprey was among the number of these, and she showed these hospitalities
to his motherless child and step-child, partly, no doubt, because he was poor, but quite as
much, I nowadays imagine, in the dim hope of finding some affectionate or imaginative outcome
of contact with them. Nannie had dropped out of the world this second time, and Beatrice was
in the charge of an extremely amiable and ineffectual poor army-class young woman whose name
I never knew. They were, I think, two remarkably illmanaged and enterprising children. I seem
to remember too, that it was understood that I was not a fit companion for them, and that our
meetings had to be as unostentatious as possible. It was Beatrice who insisted upon our meeting.

I am certain I knew quite a lot about love at fourteen and that I was quite as much in love
with Beatrice then as any impassioned adult could be, and that Beatrice was, in her way, in
love with me. It is part of the decent and useful pretences of our world that children of the
age at which we were, think nothing, feel nothing, know nothing of love. It is wonderful what
people the English are for keeping up pretences. But indeed I cannot avoid telling that Beatrice
and I talked of love and kissed and embraced one another.

I recall something of one talk under the overhanging bushes of the shrubbery--I on the park
side of the stone wall, and the lady of my worship a little inelegantly astride thereon. Inelegantly
do I say? you should have seen the sweet imp as I remember her. Just her poise on the wall
comes suddenly clear before me, and behind her the light various branches of the bushes of
the shrubbery that my feet might not profane, and far away and high behind her, dim and stately,
the cornice of the great facade of Bladesover rose against the dappled sky. Our talk must have
been serious and business-like, for we were discussing my social position.

"I don't love Archie," she had said, apropos of nothing; and then in a whisper, leaning forward
with the hair about her face, "I love YOU!"

But she had been a little pressing to have it clear that I was not and could not be a servant.

"You'll never be a servant--ever!"

I swore that very readily, and it is a vow I have kept by nature.

"What will you be?" said she.

I ran my mind hastily over the professions.

"Will you be a soldier?" she asked.

"And be bawled at by duffers? No fear!" said I. "Leave that to the plough-boys."

"But an officer?"

"I don't know," I said, evading a shameful difficulty.

"I'd rather go into the navy."

"Wouldn't you like to fight?"

"I'd like to fight," I said. "But a common soldier it's no honour to have to be told to fight
and to be looked down upon while you do it, and how could I be an officer?"

"Couldn't you be?" she said, and looked at me doubtfully; and the spaces of the social system
opened between us.

Then, as became a male of spirit, I took upon myself to brag and lie my way through this trouble.
I said I was a poor man, and poor men went into the navy; that I "knew" mathematics, which
no army officer did; and I claimed Nelson for an exemplar, and spoke very highly of my outlook
upon blue water. "He loved Lady Hamilton," I said, "although she was a lady--and I will love you."

We were somewhere near that when the egregious governess became audible, calling "Beeee-atrice!
Beeee-e-atrice!"

"Snifty beast!" said my lady, and tried to get on with the conversation; but that governess
made things impossible.

"Come here!" said my lady suddenly, holding out a grubby hand; and I went very close to her,
and she put her little head down upon the wall until her black fog of hair tickled my cheek.

"You are my humble, faithful lover," she demanded in a whisper, her warm flushed face near
touching mine, and her eyes very dark and lustrous.

"I am your humble, faithful lover," I whispered back.

And she put her arm about my head and put out her lips and we kissed, and boy though I was,
I was all atremble. So we two kissed for the first time.

"Beeee-e-e-a-trice!" fearfully close.

My lady had vanished, with one wild kick of her black-stocking leg. A moment after, I heard
her sustaining the reproaches of her governess, and explaining her failure to answer with an
admirable lucidity and disingenuousness.

I felt it was unnecessary for me to be seen just then, and I vanished guiltily round the corner
into the West Wood, and so to love-dreams and single-handed play, wandering along one of those
meandering bracken valleys that varied Bladesover park. And that day and for many days that
kiss upon my lips was a seal, and by night the seed of dreams.

Then I remember an expedition we made--she, I, and her half-brother--into those West Woods--they
two were supposed to be playing in the shrubbery--and how we were Indians there, and made a
wigwam out of a pile of beech logs, and how we stalked deer, crept near and watched rabbits
feeding in a glade, and almost got a squirrel. It was play seasoned with plentiful disputing
between me and young Garvell, for each firmly insisted upon the leading roles, and only my
wider reading--I had read ten stories to his one--gave me the ascendency over him. Also I scored
over him by knowing how to find the eagle in a bracken stem. And somehow--I don't remember
what led to it at all--I and Beatrice, two hot and ruffled creatures, crept in among the tall
bracken and hid from him. The great fronds rose above us, five feet or more, and as I had learnt
how to wriggle through that undergrowth with the minimum of betrayal by tossing greenery above,
I led the way. The ground under bracken is beautifully clear and faintly scented in warm weather;
the stems come up black and then green; if you crawl flat, it is a tropical forest in miniature.
I led the way and Beatrice crawled behind, and then as the green of the further glade opened
before us, stopped. She crawled up to me, her hot little face came close to mine; once more
she looked and breathed close to me, and suddenly she flung her arm about my neck and dragged
me to earth beside her, and kissed me and kissed me again. We kissed, we embraced and kissed
again, all without a word; we desisted, we stared and hesitated--then in a suddenly damped
mood and a little perplexed at ourselves, crawled out, to be presently run down and caught
in the tamest way by Archie.

That comes back very clearly to me, and other vague memories--I know old Hall and his gun,
out shooting at jackdaws, came into our common experiences, but I don't remember how; and then
at last, abruptly, our fight in the Warren stands out. The Warren, like most places in England
that have that name, was not particularly a warren, it was a long slope of thorns and beeches
through which a path ran, and made an alternative route to the downhill carriage road between
Bladesover and Ropedean. I don't know how we three got there, but I have an uncertain fancy
it was connected with a visit paid by the governess to the Ropedean vicarage people. But suddenly
Archie and I, in discussing a game, fell into a dispute for Beatrice. I had made him the fairest
offer: I was to be a Spanish nobleman, she was to be my wife, and he was to be a tribe of Indians
trying to carry her off. It seems to me a fairly attractive offer to a boy to be a whole tribe
of Indians with a chance of such a booty. But Archie suddenly took offence.

"No," he said; "we can't have that!"

"Can't have what?"

"You can't be a gentleman, because you aren't. And you can't play Beatrice is your wife. It's--it's
impertinent."

"But" I said, and looked at her.

Some earlier grudge in the day's affairs must have been in Archie's mind. "We let you play
with us," said Archie; "but we can't have things like that."

"What rot!" said Beatrice. "He can if he likes."

But he carried his point. I let him carry it, and only began to grow angry three or four minutes
later. Then we were still discussing play and disputing about another game. Nothing seemed
right for all of us.

"We don't want you to play with us at all," said Archie.

"Yes, we do," said Beatrice.

"He drops his aitches like anything."

"No, 'e doesn't," said I, in the heat of the moment.

"There you go!" he cried. "E, he says. E! E! E!"

He pointed a finger at me. He had struck to the heart of my shame. I made the only possible
reply by a rush at him. "Hello!" he cried, at my blackavised attack. He dropped back into an
attitude that had some style in it, parried my blow, got back at my cheek, and laughed with
surprise and relief at his own success. Whereupon I became a thing of murderous rage. He could
box as well or better than I--he had yet to realise I knew anything of that at all--but I had
fought once or twice to a finish with bare fists. I was used to inflicting and enduring savage
hurting, and I doubt if he had ever fought. I hadn't fought ten seconds before I felt this
softness in him, realised all that quality of modern upper-class England that never goes to
the quick, that hedges about rules and those petty points of honour that are the ultimate comminution
of honour, that claims credit for things demonstrably half done. He seemed to think that first
hit of his and one or two others were going to matter, that I ought to give in when presently
my lip bled and dripped blood upon my clothes. So before we had been at it a minute he had
ceased to be aggressive except in momentary spurts, and I was knocking him about almost as
I wanted to do; and demanding breathlessly and fiercely, after our school manner, whether he
had had enough, not knowing that by his high code and his soft training it was equally impossible
for him to either buck-up and beat me, or give in.

I have a very distinct impression of Beatrice dancing about us during the affair in a state
of unladylike appreciation, but I was too preoccupied to hear much of what she was saying.
But she certainly backed us both, and I am inclined to think now--it may be the disillusionment
of my ripened years--whichever she thought was winning.

