No. 78.] SATURDAY, APRIL 26. 1851. [Price, Sixpence. Stamped Edition 7d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

                                                             Page

    On the Proposed Record of Existing Monuments              313

  NOTES:--

    Illustrations of Chaucer, No. IV.                         315
    The Academies of Sir Francis Kynaston and Sir
      Balthazar Gerbier, by Dr. E. F. Rimbault                317
    Shakspeare and Fletcher, by Samuel Hickson                318
    Illustrations of Tennyson                                 319
    Folk Lore:--Sacramental Wine--Cure of Disease by
      means of Sheep                                          320
    Ancient Inedited Ballads, No. IV., by K. R. H. Mackenzie  320
    Poetical Coincidences, &c., by T. C. Smith                320
    The Republic of San Marino, by Sydney Smirke              321
    St. Francis                                               321
    Minor Notes:--Charles Lamb's Epitaph--M. or N.
      --Henry VIII. and Sir T. Curwen--Periodical Literature,
      1707--Archbishop Sancroft--Sir Henry
      Slingsby--Origin of a Surname--Madden's Reflections     322

  QUERIES:--

    The Bellman, and his History                              324
    Was Sallustius a Lecturer?--Connexion between Sallustius
      and Tacitus, by K. R. H. Mackenzie                      325
    The Outer Temple, by Edward Foss                          325
    Bibliographical Queries                                   326
    Dutch Books published out of the Netherlands              326
    What was the Country of the Angles?                       326
    Minor Queries:--Villenage--Roman Roads near
      London--Mrs. Catherine Barton--Sempecta at Croyland
      --Schmidt's Antiquitates Neomagensis--Roman
      Medicine-stamps--Sir Harris Nicolas' History of the
      Royal Navy--Wooden Baldrocks--Thanksgiving-book
      --History of the Jesuits--Mind your P's and Q's
      --Mode of hiring Domestic Servants in Holderness
      --Sittings--Fest--Home-made Wines--Inscription
      on a Clock--Inscription of the Tomb of Peter
      the Hermit--Wife of James Torre--"The Bear's
      Bible"--Harris, Painter in Water-Colours--University
      Hoods--"Nullis Fraus tuta latebris"--Voltaire,
      where situated?--Table of Prohibited Degrees
      --Launcelot Littleton--The Antediluvians                327

    MINOR QUERIES ANSWERED:--Wither's Halelujah--
      Voltaire's Henriade--Christ-Cross A.--Apple-pie
      Order--Spick and Span new--Theory of the
      Earth's Form--Carolus Lawson                            330

  REPLIES:--

    Haybands in Seals, by J. Burtt, &c.                       331
    North Side of Churchyards, by Rev. W. H. Kelke, &c.       332
    The Rolliad, and some of its Writers, by J. H. Markland,
      &c.                                                     333
    Quakers' Attempt to convert the Pope                      335
    Snail-eating                                              336
    Sir John Davies, Davis, or Davys, by W. H. Lammin         336
    Locke MSS., by Thomas Kerslake                            337
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Defoe's Anticipations--
      Epitaph in Hall's Discoveries--Saint Thomas of
      Lancaster--Francis Moore, &c.                           338

  MISCELLANEOUS:--

    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                    341
    Books and Odd Volumes wanted                              342
    Notices to Correspondents                                 342
    Advertisements                                            342

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE PROPOSED SUGGESTIONS FOR PRESERVING A RECORD OF EXISTING MONUMENTS.

    The following communications have reached us since the publication of
    our remarks on the proposed MONUMENTARIUM ANGLICANUM (No. 73. p. 217.
    et seq.). They serve to show how much interest the subject has excited
    among those best qualified to judge of the great utility of some
    well-organised plan for the preservation of a record of our still
    existing monuments.

    MR. DUNKIN'S letter (which was accompanied by a copy of the prospectus
    issued by him in 1844) claims precedence, as showing the steps which
    that gentleman has already taken. It is a communication highly
    creditable to his exertions in the cause, but does not alter our views
    as to the practicability of any successful attempt to accomplish this
    object by individual exertion.

In No. 73. Vol. iii. of "NOTES AND QUERIES" you have honoured me by an allusion to the Monumenta
Anglicana I have in the press, as "a plan which would have your hearty concurrence and recommendation,
if it were at all practicable; but which must fail from its very vastness." It may be so; but
the motto of my family is Essayez. Every "gigantic scheme" must have a commencement, and this
"scheme," I am perfectly aware, is one "that no individual, however varied in attainments and
abilities, could without assistance hope to achieve." My father, upwards of half a century
since, commenced collecting mortuary memorials; many of the monuments from which he copied
the inscriptions have since been destroyed by time, and many, very many, more by the ruthless
innovations of beautifying churchwardens. These "very vast" collections--the labour of a life--however,
only form a portion of the materials I now posses; for since I issued my prospectus in 1844,
I have received many thousands of inscriptions and rubbings of brasses from clergymen and others;
and I trust I shall be favoured with still further assistance, as in all cases where information
is rendered, the source whence derived shall be most thankfully and freely acknowledged. {314}

The plan I have adopted with regard to arrangement is to folio each page three times, viz.,
i. each parish by itself; ii. each county; iii. alphabetically; so that each parish can be
considered complete in itself; each county can be bound up by itself; or the whole alphabetically,
gazetteer-wise.

The index will be also in three divisions,--i. general; ii. names of places; iii. names of persons.

With regard to the number of volumes,--I need not say that that is entirely in nubibus. My
impression is limited to seventy-five copies, the same as my father's Oxfordshire, with which
it corresponds in size.

I should have preferred seeing the government performing the task of preserving manuscripts
of all existing monuments; but it is the fashion in Britain for government to leave all apparently
national undertakings to individual exertion. I will here conclude with a quotation from the
report I have just published of the Transactions at the Congress of the British Archæological
Association held in Worcester:

    "Lamentation is, however, worse than useless: the spirit of the age
    forbids all idle mourning. If we would awaken a sympathy and interest
    in our pursuits, we must gird up our loins like men, and be doing, and
    that right earnestly; for it is hopeless any longer waiting for the
    government, as a 'Deus ex machina,' to help us to rescue our
    antiquities from destruction."

ALFRED JOHN DUNKIN.

    Our next is from a correspondent (who has favoured us with his name)
    who proposes a scheme almost more extensive than that advocated by MR.
    DUNKIN, but who differs from that gentleman by recognising the
    necessity of combined endeavour to carry it out.

A few years since I propounded a scheme for an Ecclesiologicon Anglicanum, or record of the
history, not only architectural and monumental, but also local and traditional, of every parish
in England. Though I had long conceived such a design, I must confess myself indebted to some
excellent remarks on the subject which appeared in the Ecclesiologist (New Series, No. x.,
April 1846). Fully aware that so stupendous a work could never be accomplished by any single
individual, I compiled a prospectus of my design, and invited the co-operation of all antiquaries.
I proposed to publish at intervals, and in alphabetical order, the parishes of every county,
and by dividing the labour among different coadjutors, and giving to each a separate branch
of inquiry, thereby insuring, by successive revisions, a certainty of correctness, I hoped
to succeed in the undertaking. My project was, however, laid aside by reason of other engagements;
but, as I still think it worthy of consideration, I have troubled you with these "Notes" in
the hope that, by publication in your pages, they may be the means of suggesting to others
interested in the matter the practicability of carrying them out. Though with no definite object
in view, but with a presentiment of their after utility, I have, during many provincial campaigns,
collected architectural notes, as well as genealogical memoranda, from the churches I have
visited. To these, such as they are, any of your readers is welcome, for the purposes to which
I have referred, and I know many who would gladly send their contributions to such an undertaking.

W. J. D. R.

    Our next letter, though brief, is valuable as furnishing a case in
    point, to prove the practical utility which would result from the
    realisation of some well-considered scheme for the attainment of the
    great national object which we are advocating.

As an instance of the practical use of such a collection, let me inform your readers that in
1847, being engaged in an ejectment case on the home circuit, it became most important to show
the identity of a young lady in the pedigree, the parish register of St. Christopher le Stocks
only giving the name and date of burial. I found that when St. Christopher's was pulled down
for the enlargement of the Bank of England, some kind antiquary had copied all the monuments.
The book was found at the Herald's College; it contained an inscription proving the identity,
and a verdict was obtained.

J. S. B.

    Our last communication is, we have reason to believe, from an active
    and zealous Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries, who would heartily
    co-operate in carrying out the practical suggestions thrown out in his
    letter.

In Vol. iii, p. 218., you suggest that the Society of Antiquaries is the body which should
undertake the task of forming a record of existing monuments in churches. Entirely agreeing
in the opinion you have expressed, I would venture to offer some remarks on the subject. The
undertaking is a vast and laborious one, and can only be effected by great subdivision of labour.

That the Society of Antiquaries is the fittest agent for the work, I think admits of little
doubt; its Fellows are widely spread throughout the country. In every neighbourhood may be
found one or more gentlemen able and willing to give their aid, and to excite others to assist.
The Archæological Institute and the British Archæological Association would doubtless add the
weight of their influence, and the personal assistance of their members.

The clergy throughout the country would be able and willing labourers; and surely these conjoined
forces are adequate to the occasion.

One consideration suggests itself, viz., whether {315} the record be confined to monuments
in churches, or whether it should be extended to those in churchyards? I think it should be
so extended, partially--that is, that all the monuments in churches should be given; and such
of the monuments in churchyards as, upon a careful inspection, may appear to be in any way
worthy of preservation. We do not perhaps want the ten thousand "afflictions sore" which ten
thousand John Smiths are stated to have "long time bore."

The inscriptions in churches should be accompanied with rubbings of all brasses; and, as far
as possible, with drawings of the most interesting monuments.

I am satisfied the thing can be done, if it be undertaken with prudence, and continued with
energy. The copies should be certified by the signature of the person making them, and they
should all be transcribed on paper of the same description, so that they might be bound in volumes.

The expense would probably be considerable, because in some instances paid labour might be
requisite; but it would be as nothing compared with the magnitude and importance of the result;
and if, as is probable, the Society of Antiquaries might hesitate at undertaking the whole
charge, I doubt not that many would contribute towards it, and amongst them

Q. D.

    A very slight consideration of the object which it is proposed to
    accomplish, and the means by which it can be attained, will show that
    it falls properly into three distinct operations, namely, Collection,
    Preservation, and Publication.

    The first and most important is, the Collection of Materials. In this,
    it is obvious, the co-operation of individuals well qualified for the
    work may be secured in all parts of the country, provided some
    well-defined plan of operation is furnished for their guidance, by some
    recognised centre of union. A Committee of the Society of Antiquaries,
    who should well consider and determine upon some uniform plan of
    recording the inscriptions, &c., is clearly the body who, from their
    position, could most effectually, and with the greatest propriety,
    issue such circulars. That the Antiquaries would in this receive the
    support of both the Archæological Societies, there cannot, of course,
    be any doubt.

    And as we have in the Society of Antiquaries a machinery already
    established for the proper collection of the materials, so we have an
    existing and most appropriate place for their preservation in the
    British Museum, where they may be consulted at all times, by all
    parties, with the greatest facility, and free of charge.

    These two great points, then, of Collection and Preservation, it is
    clear may be attained at an expense so inconsiderable, compared with
    the benefits to be gained from their accomplishment, that we cannot
    believe in their failure from want of funds.

    For the accomplishment of the third great end, that of Publication,
    there is no existing machinery. But let the work of collection and
    preservation be once fairly entered upon--let it be seen how valuable a
    collection of materials has been gathered ready to the hand of a
    Society which should undertake its publication, and there need be
    little fear that from the supporters of the various Antiquarian,
    Archæological, and Publishing Societies, now spread throughout the
    country, there would be found plenty of good men and true ready to lend
    their aid to the printings and publishing of the MONUMENTARIUM
    ANGLICANUM.

    But as the first step is COLLECTION--and that step is the one in which
    the SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES can best move, we trust that the present
    year, in which this Society celebrates the centenary of its chartered
    existence, will be signalised by its promotion of such a Record of
    Existing Monuments as is here proposed; which cannot be otherwise
    regarded--(and we use the words of the Society's Charter)--than as
    "good, useful, honest, and necessary for the encouragement,
    advancement, and furtherance of the study and knowledge of Antiquities
    and the History of this Country."

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes

ILLUSTRATIONS OF CHAUCER, NO. IV.

The Pilgrimage to Canterbury.

I quote these lines because I wish to show that Tyrwhitt, in taking them as indicative of the
very day on which the journey to Canterbury was performed, committed a great mistake.

The whole of the opening of the prologue, down to the line last quoted, is descriptive, not
of any particular day, but of the usual season of pilgrimages; and Chaucer himself plainly
declares, by the words "in that seson, on a day"--that the day is as yet indefinite. {316}

But because Tyrwhitt, who, although an excellent literary critic, was by no means an acute
reader of his author's meaning, was incapable of appreciating the admirable combination of
physical facts by which Chaucer has not only identified the real day of the pilgrimage, but
has placed it, as it were, beyond the danger of alteration by any possible corruption in the
text, he set aside these physical facts altogether, and took in lieu of them the seventh and
eighth lines of the prologue quoted above, which, I contend, Chaucer did not intend to bear
any reference to the day of the journey itself, but only to the general season in which it
was undertaken.

But Tyrwhitt, having seized upon a favourite idea, seems to have been determined to carry it
through, at any cost, even at that of altering the text from "the Ram" into "the Bull:" and
I fear that he can scarcely be acquitted of unfair and intentional misquotation of Chaucer's
words, by transposing "his halfe cours" into "half his course," which is by no means an equivalent
expression. Here are his own words:

    "When he (Chaucer) tells us that 'the shoures of April had perced to
    the rote the drought of March' (ver. 1, 2.), we must suppose, in order
    to allow due time for such an operation, that April was far advanced;
    while, on the other hand, the place of the sun, 'having just run half
    his course in the Ram' (ver. 7, 8.), restrains us to some day in the
    very latter end of March. This difficulty may, and, I think, should, be
    removed by reading in ver. 8. the BULL, instead of the RAM. All the
    parts of the description will then be consistent with themselves, and
    with another passage (ver. 4425.), where, in the best MSS., the eighte
    and twenty day of April is named as the day of the journey to
    Canterbury."--Introductory Discourse.

Accordingly, Mr. Tyrwhitt did not hesitate to adopt in his text the twenty-eighth of April
as the true date, without stopping to examine whether that day would, or would not, be consistent
with the subsequent phenomena related by Chaucer.

Notwithstanding Tyrwhitt's assertion of a difficulty only removable by changing the Ram into
the Bull, there are no less than two ways of understanding the seventh and eighth lines of
the prologue so as to be perfectly in accordance with the rest of the description. One of these
would be to suppose the sign Aries divided into two portions (not necessarily equal in the
phraseology of the time), one of which would appertain to March, anal the other to April--and
that Chaucer, by the "halfe cours yronne," meant the last, or the April, half of the sign Aries.
But I think a more probable supposition still would be to imagine the month of April, of which
Chaucer was speaking, to be divided into two "halfe cours," in one of which the sun would be
in Aries, and in the other in Taurus; and that when Chaucer says that "the yonge Sonne had
in the Ram his halfe cours yronne," he meant that the Aries half of the month of April had
been run through, thereby indicating in general terms some time approaching to the middle of April.

Both methods of explaining the phrase lead eventually to the same result, which is also identical
with the interpretation of Chaucer's own contemporaries, as appears in its imitation by Lydgate
in the opening of his "Story of Thebes:"

 "Whan bright Phebus passed was the Ram,
  Midde of Aprill, and into the Bull came."

And it is by no means the least remarkable instance of want of perception in Tyrwhitt, that
he actually cites these two lines of Lydgate's as corroborative of his own interpretation,
which places the sun in the middle of Taurus.

I enter into this explanation, not that I think it necessary to examine too curiously into
the consistency of an expression which evidently was intended only in a general sense, but
that the groundlessness of Tyrwhitt's alleged necessity for the alteration of "the Ram" into
"the Bull" might more clearly appear.

I have said that Tyrwhitt was not a competent critic of Chaucer's practical science, and I
may perhaps be expected to point out some other instance of his failure in that respect than
is afforded by the subject itself. This I may do by reference to a passage in "The Marchante's
Tale," which evinces a remarkable want of perception not only in Tyrwhitt, but in all the editors
of Chaucer that I have had an opportunity of consulting.

The morning of the garden scene is said in the text to be "er that dayes eight were passed
of the month of Juil"--but, a little further on, the same day is thus described:

 "Bright was the day and blew the firmament,
  Phebus of gold his stremes doun hath sent
  To gladen every flour with his warmnesse;
  He was that time in Geminis, I gesse,
  But litel fro his declination
  In Cancer."

How is it possible that any person could read these lines and not be struck at once with the
fact that they refer to the 8th of June and not to the 8th of July? The sun would leave Gemini
and enter Cancer on the 12th of June; Chaucer was describing the 8th, and with his usual accuracy
he places the sun "but litel fro" the summer solstice!

Since "Juil" is an error common perhaps to all previous editions, Tyrwhitt might have been
excused for repeating it, if he had been satisfied with only that: but he must signalise his
edition by inserting in the Glossary attached to it--"JUIL, the month of July," referring,
as the sole {317} authority for the word, to this very line in question of "The Marchante's Tale!"

Nor does the proof, against him in particular, end even there; he further shows that his attention
must have been especially drawn to this garden scene by his assertion that Pluto and Proserpine
were the prototypes of Oberon and Titania; and yet he failed to notice a circumstance that
would have added some degree of plausibility to the comparison, namely, that Chaucer's, as
well as Shakspeare's, was a Midsummer Dream.

It is, perhaps, only justice to Urry to state that he appears to have been aware of the error
that would arise from attributing such a situation of the sun to the month of July. The manner
in which the lines are printed in his edition is this:--

                 "ere the dayis eight
  Were passid, er' the month July befill."

It is just possible to twist the meaning of this into the eighth of the Kalends of July, by
which the blunder would be in some degree lessened; but such a reading would be as foreign
to Chaucer's astronomy as the lines themselves are to his poetry.

A. E. B.

Leeds, April 8. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ACADEMIES OF SIR FRANCIS KYNASTON AND SIR BALTHAZAR GERBIER.

Among the many interesting associations connected with old Covent Garden and its neighbourhood,
we ought not to overlook Sir Francis Kynaston's "Museum Minervæ."

In the year 1635, King Charles the First granted his letters patent to Sir Francis Kynaston,
"Esquire of the body to his Majesty," whereby a house in Covent Garden, which Sir Francis had
purchased, and furnished with books, manuscripts, musical and mathematical instruments, paintings,
statues, antiques, &c., was appropriated for ever as a college for the education of the young,
nobility, and others, under the name of the "Museum Minervæ." Sir Francis Kynaston was made
the governor with the title of "regent;" (Pat. 11 Car. pt. 8. No. 14.) In the following year,
1636, was published, dedicated to the "Regent and Professors," The Constitutions of the Museum
Minervæ; giving an Account of an Academy for teaching chiefly Navigation, Riding, Fortification,
Architecture, Painting, and other useful Accomplishments.

The "Museum" seems to have been highly patronised, for we find that on the 27th February, 1635
(the year of its foundation), Prince Charles, the Duke of York, and the Lady Mary their sister,
honoured it with their presence to witness a masque, entitled "Corona Minervæ," which was written
and prepared for the occasion by Sir Francis Kynaston. This masque was, I believe, printed
in the year of its production, but I do not find it mentioned in the last edition of the Biographia
Dramatica.

Mr. Cunningham, in his Handbook of London, mentions (p. 42.) that

    "Sir Francis Kynaston, the poet, was living in Covent Garden in 1636,
    on the east side of the street towards Berrie" (Bedfordbury).

And again, in his notice of Bedford Street (p. 44.), he says, Sir Francis resided "on the west
side in 1637." Both these entries refer to the same residence--a noble mansion, built in the
year 1594, which, after being inhabited by several important families, finally passed into
the possession of Sir Francis Kynaston, who altered and adapted it (rebuilding some portions)
as the college of the "Museum Minervæ." The ground plan, which is now before me, exhibits a
well-arranged and commodious building with two fronts, one in what is now Bedfordbury, and
the other (probably added by Sir Francis) in the street now called Bedford Street. The building,
when Sir Francis Kynaston purchased it in 1634, stood in the centre of a large garden. The
surrounding streets,--King Street, New Street, Bedford Street, Chandos Street, Henrietta Street,
and Bedfordbury, were not commenced building until the year 1637.

The "Museum Minervæ" is not named in Mr. Cunningham's excellent Handbook; but when we take
into consideration the enormous amount of information required for a work of the kind, we ought
not to blame the author for a few trifling omissions.

Sir Balthazar Gerbier, an enterprising projector of the same century, by profession a painter
and an architect, but now scarcely remembered as either, seems to have imitated the "Museum
Minervæ" in an academy opened at Bethnal Green in 1649. Here, in addition to the more common
branches of education, he professed to teach astronomy, navigation, architecture, perspective,
drawing, limning, engraving, fortification, fireworks, military discipline, the art of well
speaking and civil conversation, history, constitutions and maxims of state, and particular
dispositions of nations, "riding the great horse," &c. Once in each week, at three o'clock
in the afternoon, Sir Balthazar gave a public lecture gratis on the various sciences. The lectures
were {318} generally advertised in the Perfect Diurnal, and a few curious specimens of these
advertisements may be seen in Lysons' Environs of London, ed. 1795, vol. ii. p. 30.

Balthazar Gerbier was born at Antwerp about 1591, came young into England, and was a retainer
of the Duke of Buckingham as early as 1613. Upon the accession of Charles the First, he was
employed in Flanders to negociate privately a treaty with Spain. In 1648 he appears to have
projected the above-named academy, the failure of which very soon happened. Sir Balthazar then
went to America, where he seems to have been very ill treated by the Dutch, and narrowly escaped
with his life. He afterwards returned to England, and designed the triumphal arch for the reception
of Charles the Second. He died at Hempsted-marshal, in 1667, whilst engaged in superintending
the mansion of Lord Craven, and was buried in the chancel of that church.

In conclusion, it may be as well to mention, that, prior to the establishment of the "Museum
Minervæ," a committee had been appointed in the House of Lords, consisting of the Duke of Buckingham
and others, for taking into consideration the state of the public schools, and method of education.
What progress was made in this inquiry is not known, but in all probability the academies of
Sir Francis Kynaston and Sir Balthazar Gerbier owed their origin to the meetings of this committee.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE AND FLETCHER.

I feel greatly obliged to your correspondent C. B. for the attention he has bestowed on the
question of Fletcher's connexion with Henry VIII., as it is only through the concurrent judgments
of those who think the subject worthy of their full and impartial consideration, that we can
hope to arrive at the truth. His remarks (Vol. iii., p. 190.) are the more valuable, as they
coincide with a doubt in my own mind, which has, to a great extent, ripened since I last communicated
with you on the subject; and, indeed, I have no need to hesitate in saying, that I had more
difficulty in coming to a conclusion with regard to the scene (Act III. Sc. 2.) in which the
passages occur quoted by C. B., than with any other scene in the whole play. The suggestions,
that Shakspeare might have touched scenes of which the mass had been written by Fletcher, is
a point which I had not overlooked, and which indeed, to some extent, might be said to follow
from the view I took of the relation of Shakspeare and Fletcher as master and scholar. Yet
this suggestion is especially valuable regarding this scene, and may account for that which,
without it, is not so easily explained.

If, however, there be any lurking notion in your correspondent's mind, that the scene in Antony
and Cleopatra (Act III. Sc. 1) referred to by X. Z. (Vol. iii., p. 139.) is, judging from certain
coincidences of expression, an interpolation, and not by Shakspeare, I beg at once to be allowed
to express my total dissent from such a view. Whether, also, there may have been any secondary
allusion to some known event of the day, as X. Z. supposes, and as is by no means improbable,
I cannot say; but I protest against its being said that the scene referred to is "totally unconnected
with what goes before, and what follows." Antony is the hero of the play; and this scene shows
the culminating point of Antony's fortunes, when his very successes turn against him.

To return to Henry VIII., the compliment to the Queen, to which your correspondent refers,
is, as he very justly observes, brought in in a very forced manner. This, to my mind, is very
strong evidence; otherwise I should not think it unworthy of Shakspeare. And it still has to
be borne in mind, that he would have had to accommodate his characters and circumstances to
the views of another writer. Shakspeare's spirit was too catholic, too universal, to have allowed,
in a work entirely his own, even his Wolsey to have made use of the term "a spleeny Lutheran;"
yet neither in the passage in which this expression occurs, nor in the one above referred to,
is the versification characteristic of Fletcher. For my own part, however, I cannot recognise
Shakspeare's spirit in this antagonism of creeds, which is, perhaps, even more strongly displayed
in the prophetic speech of Cranmer's in the last scene, wherein he says, "God shall be truly
known!" It may be said, that in both these instances the expressions are true to the characters
of Wolsey and Cranmer. It may be so; for both are wanting in that ideal elevation which Shakspeare
never fails to give. That, with this reservation, he becomes the mouth-piece of each character,
is most true; and a curious instance of the writer's utter forgetfulness of his assumed character
of contemporary with the events he is relating, occurring in Act. IV. To John Fletcher, indeed,
at the close of the reign of Queen Elizabeth, these things were known; but scarcely to the
attendant of Queen Katherine, who has but just narrated the circumstances, then newly happened,
of Wolsey's fall. On maturer consideration, then, I am inclined to think that the whole of
the scene (Act III. Sc. 2.) to which your correspondent refers, was originally written by Fletcher,
although, as it now stands, it is strongly marked by the hand of Shakspeare. In the same category,
also, I am inclined to place Scenes 3. and 4. of Act II. It will be observed that these changes
are not inconsistent with the view I had previously taken; the effect being merely, that I
am inclined to ascribe a little more than in the first instance to the hitherto unsuspected
participator in the work. I am not sure, too, that I shall not be coming nearer to MR. SPEDDING;
as, if I am not mistaken, it is in some of these scenes that he imagines he detects "a third
hand;" a theory which, though I do not adopt, I certainly have not confidence enough to reject
altogether. But this view affects so very small a portion of the play, that it is of very little
consequence.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

ILLUSTRATIONS OF TENNYSON.

That great poets are sometimes obscure, needs no proof. That the greatest poets will necessarily
be so to the ordinary reader, seems to me equally indisputable.

Not without effort can one enter into the spontaneous thought of another, or even of himself
in another mood. How much more when that other is distinguished from his fellows by the greatness
and singularity of his thoughts, and by the extreme subtilty of their connecting links. Obscurity
is not a blemish but an excellence, if the pains of seeking are more than compensated by the
pleasures of finding, the luxury of [Greek: mathêsis], where the concentrated energy of a passage,
when once understood, gives it a hold on the imagination and memory such as were ill sacrificed
to more diluted clearness.

Grandis præfatio tenui incepto--a sort of apology to Tennyson for implying that he needs illustration.
Some time ago I made a few notes on particular passages in Locksley Hall, which I now enclose.
Some of them are, I dare say, superfluous--some, possibly, erroneous. If so, they will stand
a fair chance of being corrected in your valuable publication.

By the bye, if a "NOTES AND QUERIES" had existed in the days of Æschylus, we might have been
saved from many a recourse to "corrupt text" and "lacunæ admodum deflendæ."

Notes on Locksley Hall.

Stanza 2. "Dreary gleams:" in apposition with "curlews." I know the construction of this line
has puzzled a good many readers.

Stanza 23. "Yet it shall be." Yet "decline" thou certainly wilt.

Stanza 28. "He will answer," &c. With an oath, it may be--at the least with a coarse rebuff.

Stanza 29. "The heart's disgrace." The disgrace, the injury, and degradation the heart has
suffered--its prostitution to a mercenary service by a marriage of interest.

Stanza 34. "Never." Alas! I never can.

Stanza 35. "In division of the records of the mind." In dividing my recollections of her into
two groups, and erasing the one.

Stanza 38. "The poet is" (as I think has been already pointed out) Dante.

Stanza 40. "He hunts," &c. He--thy husband.

Stanza 42. "Never, never," &c. Never again! (joys never to return) sung by the ghosts of years
departed.

Stanza 51. "I have but an angry fancy"--my only qualification.

Stanza 53. "But the jingling of the guinea," &c. But there is no fighting now: the nations
get over their quarrels in another way--by the jingling of the guinea, instead of the clang
of arms.

Stanzas 54. "Mother-age."; 93. "Mother-age, for mine I know not."

This mother-age is a great difficulty. At first I took it for the past of history, but now
understand by it the past of his own life, at least its earliest and brightest period--that
age which had been as a mother, the only mother he ever knew.

Stanza 70. "Youthful joys." The bright hopes of his youth. (?)

Stanza 75. "Blinder motions," Less rational, less well-guided emotions.

Stanza 91. "The distance." The distant future, the "good time coming."

There are some lines in In Memoriam (I have not the book at hand, but any reader thereof will
instantly recollect them), which indicate Tennyson's acquaintance with and appreciation of
Jeremy Taylor, who thus expresses the thoughts of the "wild fellow in Petronius," suggested
by the sight of a floating corpse.

    "That peradventure this man's wife, in some part of the Continent, safe
    and warm, looks next month for the good man's return or, it may be, his
    son knows nothing of the tempest: or his father thinks of that
    affectionate kiss which is still warm upon the good old man's cheek
    ever since he took a kind farewell; and he weeps with joy to think how
    blessed he shall be when his beloved boy returns into the circle of his
    father's arms."--Holy Dying.

Compare with "Sure never moon to evening," &c., in the same poem, and I think the same place: {320}

 "Nec nox ulla diem, neque noctem aurora secuta est,
  Quæ non audierit mistos vagitibus ægris
  Ploratus mortis comites, et funeris atri."--Lucretius, ii. 579.

G. P.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Sacramental Wine (Vol. iii., p. 179.).--From a note by MR. ALBERT WAY, on the use of sacramental
wine, one would be led to infer that it was recommended on account of some superstitious belief
in its superior excellency from having been used in religious worship; but I would suggest
that the same reasons which recommend Teynt wine, the kind generally used for the Sacrament,
are those which have established for it a reputation in cases of sickness: these are its rich
red colour, and sweet and agreeable flavour.

Weakness is popularly supposed to be caused by a thinness and want of blood; if wine be recommended
for this, there is a deeply rooted prejudice in favour of red wine because the blood is red,
and upon no better principle than that which prescribes the yellow bark of the barberry for
the yellow state of jaundice; the nettle, for the nettle-rash; and the navel-wort (Cotyledon
umbilicus), for weakness about the umbilical region. The truth is, that rustic practice is
much influenced by the doctrine of similitudes, the principle of "similia similibus curantur"
having been more extensively recognised in the olden time than since the days of Hahnemann.

The sweetness of Teynt wine would recommend it for children, to whom a stronger wine is generally
distasteful; but Port is generally prescribed as a tonic for adults.

It may further be remarked, that the recommendation to give Sacramental wine might arise from
the fact, that, as in some parishes more wine is provided than is required, the remainder is
put by to be given to the poor who may require it at the hands of the clergyman.

In sending these remarks, I am led to request that your correspondents would make Notes upon
such old wives' remedies as are employed upon the principles I have mentioned.

JAMES BUCKMAN.

Cirencester, April 12.

Cure of Disease by means of Sheep.--A child in my parish has been for some time afflicted with
disease of some of the respiratory organs. The mother was recommended to have it carried through
a flock of sheep as they were let out of the fold in the morning. The time was considered to
be of importance.

[Hebrew: B].

L---- Rectory, Somerset.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT INEDITED BALLADS, NO. IV.

I next transcribe the following lines from the same MS. as my last. It is another epitaph on
the Mr. Browne that I mentioned in No. II. It contains a curious illustration of a passage
in Shakspeare, which has been often debated in the pages of "NOTES AND QUERIES," and so deserves
preservation.

    "Vpon the death of that right worthye man, MR. BROWNE, late of Caius
    and Gonville Colledge disceased. Epicedion."--(Harl. MSS., No. 367.
    fol. 155.)

 "If vowes or teares from heartes or eyes,
  Could pearce the unpenitrable skyes,
  Then might he live, that now heere lyes.

  But teares are tonguelesse, vowes are vaine,
  T' recall what fate calls; els how faine                       5
  What death hath seis'd, wold I regaine.

  But sure th' immortal one belaves
  This wished soule in 's blissfull waves:
  Ill comes too oft, when no man craves.

  Rest, therefore, vrne, rest quietlye,                         10
  And when my fates shall call on me,
  So may I rest, as I wish the.
                     "R. CONSTABLE,
                          Caio-Gonvillensis."

I need hardly point out the striking similarity between the expression in Shakspeare--

                 "and the delighted spirit
  To bathe in fiery floods,"--

and the third stanza of this poem.

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETICAL COINCIDENCES, ETC.

Byron.

In the Jealous Lovers of Thomas Randolph, the following passage occurs, which may possibly
have suggested to Lord Byron the fearful curse he has put into the mouth of Eve, in "the grand
and tremendous drama of Cain."[1]

                 "May perpetual jealousie
  Wait on their beds, and poison their embraces
  With just suspitions; may their children be
  Deform'd, and fright the mother at the birth:
  May they live long and wretched; all men's hate,
  And yet have misery enough for pity:
  May they be long a-dying--of diseases
  Painful and loathsome," &c.

That exquisite stanza in the Third Canto of Childe Harold, "Even as a broken mirror," &c.,
has been often admired. In Carew's poem, The Spark, I find the following lines, which contain
similar image:

{321}

 "And as a looking-glass, from the aspect,
  Whilst it is whole, doth but one face reflect,
  But being crack'd, or broken, there are shown
  Many half faces, which at first were one;
  So Love," &c.

To the coincidences which have been already pointed out regarding that exquisite line in the
Bride of Abydos:

 "The mind, the music breathing from her face,"

the following from Carew may perhaps be added:

 "The harmony of colours, features, grace,
  Resulting airs (the magic of a face)
  Of musical sweet tunes, all which combin'd,
  To crown one sovereign beauty, lie confined
  To this dark vault."--Epitaph on the Lady S.

All will recollect the wonderful description of the shipwreck in Don Juan; and more particularly
the incidents so graphically related in stanzas 52 and 53 of the Second Canto: to a part of
which, the following passage fro Lee's Oedipus bears some resemblance:

             "Methought I heard a voice,
  Now roaring like the ocean, when the winds
  Fight with the waves; now in a still small tone
  Your dying accents fell, as wrecking ships,
  After the dreadful yell, sink murm'ring down,
  And bubble up a noise."

I have now before me a print of John, the first Lord Byron, engraved from a painting in the
collection of Lord Delaware; in which he is pourtrayed in armour, with a truncheon in the left
hand, and the right arm bare to above the elbow. Can this have suggested to Lord Byron the
idea of describing "Alp the renegade" as fighting with "the white arm bare," in the Siege of
Corinth?

Byron refers to Smollett as an authority for "blatant beast," apparently forgetting that the
figure originated with Spenser. Again, in a note to Don Juan respecting his use of the phrase
"reformadoes," he remarks:

    "The Baron Bradwardine, in Waverley, is authority for the word."

It occurs, however, in Ben Jonson, and may be found in Blount's Glossographia; Phillips's World
of Words, and other old dictionaries of the same period.

T. C. SMITH.

[Footnote 1: Sir Walter Scott.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REPUBLIC OF SAN MARINO.

Amidst the Apennines, far removed from the ordinary track of tourists, is the diminutive republic
of San Marino, which boasts never to have been subjugated. Whether it has escaped invasion
because it has escaped notice, or because burglars never attack an empty cottage, is a point
which I shall not stop to discuss. Few travellers visit it, but the trouble of doing so would
be amply repaid. The situation is highly romantic; and the view from the summit of the bold
escarpment, upon which the town is perched, extends over a wilderness of mountains.

The population of the territory is said not to exceed 6,000 or 7,000 souls. Its whole income
is derived from a moderate duty on tobacco; and its standing army (for it possesses this indispensable
incident to political independence) is chiefly employed in vain attempts to prevent the evasion
of that duty.

Among the greatest and most highly esteemed curiosities of the place, is a statue of Christ
on the cross, with a head of real hair, which is cut twice a year, and always grows again!
This faculty of reproduction is as profitable as it is wonderful; for, besides the resort of
pious visitors, drawn by the capillary attractions of such a miraculous piece of sculpture,
the locks that are cut off are stated, by the ecclesiastical functionaries in charge of the
statue, to be a sure preservative against all harm to the wearer, and are of course in request
as an article of commerce. My object in communicating to you these notes, is to introduce to
you a copy, which I transcribed myself, of one of the state papers preserved in the archives
of the republic. It appears to be a letter of encouragement, addressed by the Priors and Gonfaloniere
of the republic of Florence to that of S. Marino, during a siege that the latter was undergoing.
Perhaps some of your readers may be able to point out the precise occasion that called for
the letter.

SYDNEY SMIRKE.

    "Magnifici viri amici ñri car^{mi}, Habbiamo vedato la lettera vi
    scrive il Governatore, et habbiamo inteso la voluntà dello exercito
    della Chiesa. Dovete essere di buono animo et stare constanti et fermi:
    et perdere la vita insieme con la libertà che è meglo allo huomo uso a
    essere libero, essere morto che essere servo. Iddio a chi piace la
    libertà vi aiutera difenderai: et noi et la ñra lega non vi manchera:
    havete inteso le provisioni facte et di denari et di gente ad Arimino;
    et faremo delle altre tante che saranno abastanza. Valete. Ex palatio
    ñro die viij. Junij, M.CCCCLXVIIIj.

     "Priores libertatis et }
      Vexillifer Justitiæ   }  Populi Florentinj.

    "Barth. Scala.

    "Magnificis Viris hominibus terræ S[=a] Marini amicis ñris car^{mis}."

       *       *       *       *       *

ST. FRANCIS.

I think Mrs. Jameson, in her Legends of the Monastic Orders, has left unnoticed the very remarkable
book of the Conformity of St. Francis's Life with that of Jesus Christ, a work, the blasphemy
of which is only equalled by its absurdity.

The book was written by Bartholomew of Pisa, a monk of the order, and licensed in 1399 by the
general of the Minorites.

    "Approbatum est a fr. Henrico ord. frat. Minorum generali ministro et
    servo et cæteris ministris et diffinitoribus capituli generalis apud
    Sacrum locum de Assisio die 2 Augusti A.D. 1399."

{322}

The title of the first edition, which is very rare, is as follows:

    "Liber Conformitatum Vitæ S. Francisci ad Vitam Jesu Christi. Authore
    Fr. Bartholomæo degli Albizzi, ex recens. Fran. Zenonis. Impressum
    Mediolani per Gotardum Ponticum apud templum Sancti Satyri. Anno
    M.CCCCCX. die 18 mensis Septembris. In fol. literis quadratis."

The Second edition:

    "Opus aur. et inexplicabilis bonitatis et continentiæ, Conformitatum
    scilicet vitæ Beati Fr[=a]. ad vit[=a] D[=i]. [=n]ri Jesu x[=p]i.
    Mediolani, in edibus Zanoti castilionei 1513. in fol. goth."

The third edition, also in folio, appeared at Bologne (1590) as "Liber aureus, inscriptus liber
Conformitatum, etc., per Hierem Bucchium," with some alterations in the text.

Fourth edition:

    "Vita S. Fra[=n]. conf. ad vit. Xti., per S. Bonaventuram Conscriptu ab
    Henr. Sedulio Co[=m]. illustrata, 4to., Antr. 1597."

Another edition, by Jer. Bacch, in folio, appeared at Bologne in 1620; and an abridged edition
in octavo, by Phil. Bosquier, at Cologne, under the title of Antiquitates Franciscanæ, a very
good edition of the Liber Conform., "Et ex Annalibus Madingi collecta per Tibur. Navarrum,"
was published in 4to. at Rome in 1670.

The late Dr. Elrington had a very fine copy of the following French translation:--

    "Traite des Conformités du Disciple avec son Maitre, c'est à dire, de
    Saint François avec J. C., etc., le tout recueilli par un frere mineur
    récollect. (Valentin Marée.) Liege, 1658-60. 4 part en 3 vol. in 4to."

In 1542 a small volume was put forth, containing choice passages from the Liber Conformitatum,
with a preface and letter to the reader, purporting to be from Martin Luther. It was accordingly
by many attributed to him; the real compiler was Erasmus Alberus. The title of the first edition is

    "Alcoranus Franciscorum, etc., ex libro conformitatum: Francof. 1542,
    parv. 8vo."

It was reprinted, with a French translation, by Conrad Badius, at Geneva, 1560 or 1578; so
says Brunet.

The best edition of this work was that published at Amsterdam in 1734, in two vols. 12 mo.,
with some capital plates by Picart. The title is--

    "L'Alcoran des Cordeliers, tant en Latin qu'en François; c'est à dire,
    Recueil des plus notables bourdes et blasphemes de ceux qui ont osé
    comparer Sainet François à Jesus Christ; tiré du grand livre des
    Conformités, jadis composé par frere Barthelemi de Pise, Cordelier en
    son vivant. Nouvelle edition, ornée de figures dessinées par B. Picart.
    A Amsterdam. Aux Defens de la Compagnie. MDCCXXXIV."

Another work, printed the same year, is often found with this:--

    "Legende Dorée, ou Sommaire de l'Histoire des Freres-mendians de
    l'ordre de Saint François. (Par Nic. Vignier.) Amsterdam, 1734. 12mo.
    Réimpr. sur l'ed. de Leyde, 1608 in 8vo."

Thomas of Celano, the friend and scholar of St. Francis, and the author of the famous Dies
Iræ, after the saint's death composed a brief account of his life, which he afterwards greatly
enlarged, and which even now is the most authentic we possess. I should be glad to know the
best, as well as the latest editions of this life.

    "Francis," said Luther, "was no doubt an honest and just man. He little
    thought that such superstition and unbelief should proceed out of his
    life."--Tischreden.

Berington says of St. Francis:

    "In an age of less intemperance in religion, miracles and the fancied
    intervention of peculiar favours from heaven, would not have been
    deemed necessary to stamp worth and admiration on a character which in
    itself possessed the purest excellences that fall to the lot of man.
    But this circumstance, and more than this, the reception which an
    institute so peculiarly framed met with, serve to manifest the singular
    taste of the age."--Berington's Henry II., p. 629.

"It is scarcely possible," says Mr. Massingberd, "to read the history of St. Francis of Assisi,
without believing that there was in him a sincere and self-devoted, however ill-directed, piety."
We must not let the foolish legends afterwards written of him lower him in our estimation,
nor cease to regard him as a sincere and devoted Christian.

MARICONDA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

I have heard it conjectured that the above were written by Wordsworth. I shall feel obliged
if any of your readers will inform me whether the late laureate was the author of them or not?

MARIA S.

Edmonton.

{323}

M. or N. (Vol. i., p. 415.; Vol. ii., p. 61.).--There have been several suggestions as to the
origin of the use of these letters in the services of the church, but I do not think that any
correspondent has hit upon the very simple one which I have always considered to be most probably
the true explanation; which is, that as these services were compiled when algebra stood much
higher in the rank of sciences than it does at present, it is by no means unlikely that these
two letters should be used to signify indefinite and variable names, as they are in algebra
to represent indefinite or variable numbers, in the same manner as A. B. C. are as signs of
known or definite, and X. Y. Z. of unknown sums.

E. H. Y.

Henry VIII. and Sir Thos. Curwen.--The following quaint extract from Sandford's MS. History
of Cumberland, now in the library of the Dean and Chapter of Carlisle, exhibits that "reknowned
king," Henry VIII., in so good-natured a light, that I think, if you can find a corner for
it, it may amuse some of your readers. That the good knight and "excelent archer" should have
been so outwitted by his son-in-law is a matter of some regret to one of his descendants:--

    "Sir Thos. Curwen, Knight, in Henry the Eight's time, an excelent
    archer at twelvescore merks; and went up with his men to shoote with
    that reknowned King at the dissolution of abbeys: and the King says to
    him, Curwen, why doth thee begg none of these Abbeys? I wold gratify
    thee some way. Quoth the other, Thank yow, and afterward said he wold
    desire of him the Abbie of ffurness (nye unto him) for 20^{ty} one
    yeares. Sayes the King: take it for ever: quoth the other, it is long
    enough, for youle set them up againe in that time: but they not likely
    to be set up againe, this Sir Tho. Curwen sent Mr. Preston, who had
    married his daughter, to renew the lease for him; and he even rennewed
    in his own name; which when his father-in-law questioned, quoth Mr.
    Preston, you shall have it as long as you live; and I think I may as
    well have it with your daughter as another."

After some descents, this family of Preston, of the manor of Furness, terminated in a daughter,
who married Sir William Lowther, whose grandson left his estates in Furness and Cartmell to
his cousin, Lord George Cavendish, through whom they are inherited by the Earl of Burlington.
As Harry the Eighth's good intentions towards Sir Thomas Curwen have been frustrated, his descendants
must console themselves by knowing that the glorious old ruin of Furness could not be in better
hands than his lordship's.

H. C.

Workington.

Periodical Literature, 1707.--

    "The author of the Observator is MR. RIDPATH, y^e author of the
    Flying Post. The base author of the late paper, which has been some
    time since dropp'd, viz. The Observator Reviv'd, was one PEARCE, an
    exchange broker, some time since concerned in the paper called
    Legion's Address, and forced to fly on that account into Holland. The
    publisher of the Phoenix is a Presbyterian bookseller, named J.
    Darby, in Bartholomew Close, who has told me that he was chiefly
    assisted therein by the famous MR. COLLINS, the supposed author of The
    Use of Reason in Propositions, &c., and Dr. Tindal's familiar
    acquaintance."--Original Letter of the Rev. Robert Watts, M.A., dated
    London, Feb. 6. 1707-8.

P. B.

Archbishop Sancroft.--It is well known that Dr. William Dillingham, Master of Emanuel College,
Cambridge, published, in 1678, a volume of Latin poems, partly translations from George Herbert,
partly pieces of his own, with some few added from other sources. But it is not known that
most of the pieces in this volume were corrected by the hand of Archbishop Sancroft, and that
one certainly was from his own pen. It occurs at p. 155. of the octavo volume alluded to, and
is entitled "Hippodromus." This is a translation from an epigram by Thomas Bastard, first printed
in 1598, and beginning:

 "I mett a courtier riding on the plaine."

That it is Archbishop Sancroft's is proved from an original letter addressed to him by Dillingham
in 1677, and preserved in the Bodleian.

P. B.

Sir Henry Slingsby.--This gallant cavalier, who was murdered (as Lloyd says in his Memoirs)
by Oliver Cromwell in 1658, wrote an account of the scenes in which he bore a part, from 1638
to 1648, which he called "Commentaries, containing many remarkable occurrences during the Civil
Wars." Can any of your correspondents tell me where the original manuscript is to be found,
and whether it was ever printed? I have seen an indifferent transcript, beginning, "The chappel
at Red House was built by my father, Sir Henry Slingsby." If it has never been published, it
would be an acceptable contribution to the historical memoirs of the times, and worth the attention
of the Camden Society.

P. B.

Origin of a Surname.--Martha Denial, widow, aged seventy-five, was buried in Ecclesfield churchyard,
3rd February, 1851. Her husband, Joseph Denial, told the parish clerk that his grandfather
was found when an infant deserted in a church porch; and that he was surnamed Denial, as one
whom all deny; and was christened Daniel, which is composed of the same letters. This is the
tradition of the origin of a surname now common in this parish.

A. G.

Ecclesfield.

Madden's Reflections.--Madden's Reflections and Resolutions for the Gentlemen of Ireland. In
the preface to the reprint of this work we meet with the following paragraph:

    "The very curious and interesting work which is {324} now reprinted,
    and intended for a wide and gratuitous circulation, is also of uncommon
    rarity: there is not a copy of it in the Library of Trinity College, or
    in any of the other public libraries of this city [Dublin], which have
    been searched on purpose. The profoundly-learned Vice-Provost, Doctor
    Barrett, never met with one; and many gentlemen well skilled in the
    literature of Ireland, who have been applied to for information on the
    subject, are even unacquainted with the name of the book."

The full title of the work to which I refer, and which is an 8vo. volume of 200 or 300 pages,
is Reflections and Resolutions proper for the Gentlemen of Ireland, as to their Conduct for
the Service of their Country. It was printed in Dublin in 1738; it was reprinted there in 1816
at the sole expense of the well-known philanthropist, Thomas Pleasants, and the author was
Samuel Madden, D.D., the author of several publications: a great patron of arts and literature
in his native land, and one of whom Dr. Johnson remarked with truth,--"His was a name Ireland
ought to honour." For some authentic information respecting him, see Nichols's Literary Anecdotes
of the Eighteenth Century, vol. ii. pp. 31. 699.; and Grosley's Tour in England, vol. ii p.
260. These writers, however, make no mention of his Reflections.

The original edition may indeed be looked upon as rather rare, but not so rare as some appear
inclined to think. I have a copy, and until lately had two; and at different times I have met
with copies for sale. However, the copy now in the library of the Royal Dublin Society was
purchased some years ago at a high price; and, unless I am mistaken, there is not one as yet
in the British Museum. The reprint which is there is much to be preferred by readers in general.

ABHBA.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

THE BELLMAN, AND HIS HISTORY.

I have often read Vincent Bourne's poem, "Ad Davidem Cook, Westmonasterii Custodem Nocturnum
et Vigilantissimum, Anno 1716:" Pickering's edition, p. 129. This nightly guardian, it appears,
was accompanied by a dog:

 "Cùm variis implent tenebræ terroribus orbem,
    Tu comite assuetum cum cane carpis iter,"

was armed with a stout staff, or knotty club:

 "Nec te perterrent, nodoso stipite fretum,
    Subdola qui tacito pectore furta parant,"

and carried a bell:

 "Tinnitu adventum signans, oriantur an astra,
    Narras, an purè lucida Luna micet."

To the last-mentioned part of his equipment, he owed the title of "Bellman."

The Bellman's duty, however, was not confined to crying the rising of the stars, or the shining
of the moon, but he cheered his nightly round with many a chant:

  Nocturnum multo carmine fallis iter."

The next lines are descriptive of the Bellman's poetry, and tell us the subjects of it. Of
some of these I want explanation; and of all, examples. I am at a loss to explain the following
four lines:

 "Divorum hyberni menses quotcunque celebrant,
    Cuique locum et versum dat tua musa suum:
  Crispino ante omnes; neque enim sine carmine fas est
    Nobile sutorum præteriisse decus."

The next lines refer to the Bellman's loyalty in ever remembering the Royal Family; to his
salutation of masters and mistresses; to the useful instruction he pours forth in song to young
men and maidens; and to the happy marriages he wishes to such as give heed to his warnings.
The Bellman then addresses himself to men-servants and maid-servants, enjoining honesty on
the former, cleanliness on the latter. Repeatedly wishing prosperity to his masters, he concludes
with one pre-eminent exhortation to keep in mind, that the friendly hand of death levels the
highest and the lowest.

My ignorance asks several questions. When did the Bellman lay aside his bell, and assume the
rattle; and, with this change (I presume), drop the name of Bellman for that of Watchman, to
whom the silent policeman has succeeded? Was the dog the usual aide-de-camp of the Bellman?
Are there any other instances in which the dog is mentioned as assisting the Bellman in his
nocturnal guardianship?

As to the Bellman's poetry, Milton will occur to every one:

 "Or the bellman's drowsy charm
  To bless the door from nightly harm."--Il Penseroso.

1. Herrick's Hesperides, p. 169., is a Bellman's song, a blessing, concluding:

 "Past one o'clock, and almost two,
  My masters all, good-day to you."

2. Ibid. p. 251. is another song; a warning to remember the judgment-day, and ending--

 "Ponder this when I am gone,
  By the clock 'tis almost one."

See The Tatler, No. 111., for the Bellman's salutation:

    "Good morrow, Mr. Bickerstaff, good morrow, my masters all." Sc.
      2. 482.

In the Archaic and Provincial Dictionary, the duty of the Bellman in his poetic character seems
to be limited to blessing the sleepers. It appears from the poem by Vincent Bourne, that his
Muse took a much more extensive range.

Can you inform me where I can find more about the Bellman, his bell and his dog; and, especially,
his songs? Where can I find "The Bellman's Songs?"

Is "Bellman" a name given to dogs in modern times? See Taming of the Shrew, Induction.

F. W. T.

    [We cannot insert F. W. T.'s Query without referring to the admirable
    translation of Vinny Bourne's Ode, which is to be found in our First
    Volume, p. 152.]

       *       *       *       *       *

WAS SALLUSTIUS A LECTURER?--CONNEXION BETWEEN SALLUSTIUS AND TACITUS.

Sallustius, in his celebrated abstract of the Punic records of Thempsal, makes the following
remark:

    "Nam de Carthagine silere melius puto, quam parum dicere, quoniam alio
    properare tempus monet."--De Bello Jugurthino, c. xix. ed. Allen.

Does not this sound as if the history has been read out to an assembly? There is strong presumptive
evidence in favour of such a supposition, in the tradition of Herodotus having read aloud his
history at the Grecian Games. Besides, it was a common practice of Cicero and Plinius the Younger
to read out their orations and treatises. I cannot help thinking that the histories of Sallustius
were first delivered as lectures, taken down by reporters[2] employed by himself for the purposes
of preserving his words, as he had only notes before him, fairly transcribed from the stenographic
character, and then, but not till then, made a subject of closet-study. This, I think, is easy
of proof, and instances may be adduced (the expression I have quoted is one) where the lecturer
peeps out.

The interpolated state in which this classic has come down to us is indeed sad: there is scarcely
a chapter throughout the Catiline and Jugurtha where some transcriber has not been at work,
sticking in words and sometimes whole sentences, which, I am astonished to see, have escaped
the notice of Cortius, Allen, and the older editors.

I said above that Sallustius made his lectures or orations on the history of his country a
subject of closet study. He did so, and in an eminent degree. His conciseness, clearness (when
relieved from the burden of interpolation), and usual impartiality, point to a careful and
spiritual study of Thucydides; but he could not attain to an equal degree of sweetness as the
Greek historian, on account of the general character of their several languages differing.
As far, however, as Roman could approach to Greek, I conceive Sallustius has approached to
Thucydides. Tacitus (whose mind was impregnated with, and steeped in Sallustius) rarely enounces
a sentiment in his numerous works the origin of which is not referable to the latter author.
It requires some careful thought sometimes, before the passages can be traced; but they are
traceable; and if we had the whole works of Sallustius, I doubt not but that we should be able
to trace them all much more easily. Perhaps--I say it without stress, mind; it is a mere suggestion--it
would be possible to restore, or rather connect some of the historical fragments of Sallustius
by means of the works of Tacitus. When we find a sentiment of Sallustius half expressed in
the fragment, and trending towards the conclusion arrived at by Tacitus, may we not, as we
know how completely the latter had imbibed the thoughts of the former, reasonably suppose the
remainder of the passage to be parallel; and, following out the idea, restore it, taking into
consideration the difference of the mode of expression in the two eras? And this may hold good,
not only between Tacitus and Sallustius, but between Sallustius and Thucydides.

Such is the aspect under which I endeavour to behold the classics, viz. as one great whole,
having here and there pieces gone or faded (lost or hopelessly corrupted), and which fit into
each other, showing the building which intellect erects, the only building calculated to withstand
the hand of time. Thanks be to printing, to cheap literature, and to English energy and investigation,
antiquity may again rear her head, and fell that it is comprehended in all its varied bearings,
and lights and shadows.

To men like Niebuhr, Grote, Layard, Prescott, St. John, Wilkinson, Rawlinson, and Norris, do
we owe a debt of gratitude, for such patience and investigation; and no one cheers them on
with a more sincere feeling, and thanks them for their past exertions, than

KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

[Footnote 2: Short-hand, we know, was in use at Rome.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OUTER TEMPLE.

Mr. Peter Cunningham, in his delightful Handbook of London, says that when the New Temple "passed
to the Knights of St. John of Jerusalem, the Inner and Middle Temple were leased to the Students
of the Common Law; and the OUTER TEMPLE to Walter Stapleton, Bishop of Exeter:" and in describing
Essex House, by which name it {326} was afterwards known, he repeats the same statement; as
if the Outer Temple was part of the original property of the Knights Templars.

I should be very glad to know what authority he has for this; because I have very great doubt
whether the "Outer Temple" ever belonged to the Knights Templars or to the Knights of St. John,
or was in any manner comprehended within the property. The New Temple, as the whole property
was called, belonged to Aymer de Valence, Earl of Pembroke, at the time of his death, in June,
1323. The Council of Vienna, in 1324, bestowed all the lands of the Knights Templars on the
Knights of St. John. Since my letter to you on the general subject of the Temple, and L. B.
L.'s obliging answer (Vol. ii., pp. 103. 123.), I have been kindly furnished by Mr. Joseph
Burtt, of the Chapter House, with a deed, dated June 28, 1324, by which the Knights of St.
John granted the whole of the New Temple, "totum messuagium nostrum vocatum Novum Templum,"
to Hugh le Despencer the younger; describing it to be lying between the house (hospicium) of
the Bishop of Exeter towards the west, and the house of Hugo de Courteneye towards the east.
This shows manifestly that if the Bishop of Exeter's house ever belonged to the Temple, it
did not at that time; and I am not aware of any earlier evidence proving that the Templars
ever possessed it.

I believe, though I have not seen the record, that, in the grant to Sir William Paget, temp.
Henry VI., it is described as the "Outer Temple;" but I am inclined to think, from various
circumstantial testimonies, that it was merely so called because it was situate on the outside
of the Temple.

If any of your correspondents could illustrate this question, or that more curious one,--when
the new Temple was first divided between Inner and Middle,--I should feel infinitely obliged.

EDWARD FOSS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES.

1. Can any of your readers give me any information regarding a work which I find recorded in
a catalogue thus:--A Catalogue of above 300 Coins of Canute, King of Denmark and England, found
near Kirkwall, with Specimens. 4to. London, 1777? I should like, if possible, to have a copy
of the title-page, the size, and the number of pages; and, if possible, the name of the compiler.

2. I should like to find out the name of the translator into English, of Pontoppidan's Natural
History of Norway, published in folio in London in 1755.

3. Can any of your readers oblige me with the name of the author of a controversial sermon,
entitled Whigs no Christians, preached at London, on the anniversary of the martyrdom of King
Charles, in 1712-13, and published in the same year?

[Greek: Boreas].

       *       *       *       *       *

DUTCH BOOKS PUBLISHED OUT OF THE NETHERLANDS.

Although the Dutch language is now regarded in foreign countries with a neglect bordering on
contempt, and its study, when attended to at all, generally undertaken as a work of necessity
rather than a labour of love, I have thought it would not be without interest to examine to
what extent it was formerly cultivated (were it even chiefly by Dutchmen) in foreign lands;
to institute a search after the productions of the Dutch mind in the Dutch language brought
forth on foreign soils; in a word, to pass in review the Dutch books which have been published
in other countries during the period included between the invention of printing and our own days.

It appears to me that such a review would lead to much interesting research, and would tend
not only to illustrate our literature, but also to clear up many points still obscure in our
national, and more especially in our ecclesiastical, history.

The review which I propose would be limited, in the first instance, to the formation of an
exact and complete list of such exotic works, with the addition of such notes as I might be
able to add. A more experienced hand may then make use of these materials to form a more perfect
treatise on this portion of our literature.

In execution of this plan I have already compiled a list of names of books and authors; these
have been gathered partly from an examination of the works themselves, partly from catalogues
and other sources where such works are mentioned. Now, however, as my resources are nearly
exhausted, and my labours by no means complete, I take the liberty to lay my plan before those
who may be disposed to concur with me, those who may be able to procure me information, those
who have the possession or the care of libraries in which such books are to be found, and of
which catalogues have not been printed; and, for the end I have in view, I invite them all
to help me in the completion of my work. The editors of the Navorscher have consented to open
their columns to contributors. To spare needless trouble, I wish it to be distinctly understood
that I do not include any works published in Belgium, or in the colonies now or formerly in
our possession.

MARTINUS.

Amsterdam, March 11. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT WAS THE COUNTRY OF THE ANGLES?

What country was inhabited by the Angles before they occupied Britain? Adam of Bremen (Hist.
Eccl. c. 3.) says:

    "Igitur Saxones primo circa Rhenum sedes habitant et vocati sunt Angli
    quorum pars inde veniens in Britanniam, etc."

{327}

Notwithstanding the opinion of Turner, and most other historians, I venture to offer a few
facts in confirmation of the monk's testimony. 1. The names of places on the Lower Rhine, and
more especially in Guelderland, point to an Anglian origin for instance, Engelanderholt, Engelenburg
and Engelenberg, Angerlo olim Angelerlo. Engeland, near Beekbergen, is mentioned in a charter[3]
dated 801 as villa Englandi. Several other places bear the same name: two near Hardenberg,
one in the land of Putten, another in our parish; which also contains Henschoten olim Hengestschoten,
and owes its own name to Woden. Near Nimwegen, we have Horssen. 2. Many local names in the
same district, which can only be explained by reference to the A.-S. Hulkestein on the Zuyder
Sea, Hulkestein near Arnhem, from A.-S. hulc, a dwelling: thus, stone buildings, castles. Thri,
A.-S., three, is mentioned in a charter dated 855 as the name of a villa, now the hamlet Drie,
near Ermelo. Hierd and Heerd, from A.-S. hierde, perhaps also Hardewick or Harderwyk from the
same. Braclog, a wood near Engelanderholt, from brac, enemy, and locen, an enclosure, is mentioned
in a charter (801). Luntern and Lunhorst, from A.-S. Lun, poor. Wigmond, from wig, war; and
mund, defence. Culenburg, from ciol or ceol, a ship. Klingelbeck, near Arnhem, from clingan,
to shrink up. Ysseloord from ord, a point; and thus confluence of two rivers, as we see also
on the Rhine, Roerort and Angerort. Herwynen, Herveld, Hernen, Herwaarden, Winden Delwynen,
Sennewyn, can be explained[4] by A.-S. here and win. 3. The agreement between the names of
places here, and those of every part of England occupied by the Angles. Out of a great number
of instances collected by Mr. Molhuysen (see Nyhoff's Bijdragen, vol. iii.) I will take a few.
In Kent we have Appledore, Appleton, Appleby; here Appeldorn, Appel, Appeltern, Appelenburg
on the Wahal. Ashe and Ash; Asch, near Buren, and others. Barne; Bern near Heusden, and Baarn
near Amersfoort. Barnefield; Barneveld. Bonington, Boningen. Dover; Doveren. Gillingham; Gellinchem.
Hearne; Hiern, near Waardenburg. Herne; Hernen. Leisdon; Leusden. Lone; Loenen. Sandwich; Sandwyk,
near Tiel. Watchorne; Waghorn, in the Velume. In Yorkshire: Beel; De Beele, near Voorst. Byland;
Byland. Campe; Campen. Catwich; Katwyk. Dodworth; Dodewaard. Ecope; Heicop. Grimestone; Grimmestein,
on the Eem. Heck; Eck. Hampall; Empel, near Engelen. Herfield; Herveld. Hewick; Ewyk, &c. &c.--The
evident similarity of names in this list, which might be extended through several pages, affords
at least a strong presumption that a part of the land of our fathers is to be sought here.
I will just add that there is a MS. containing copies of charters, registers, &c., collected
by Opstraeten van der Moelen, a genealogist, who died in the early part of the seventeenth
century, now in the possession of Mr. Van Asch van Wyck. In this is an article entitled "De
Nobili et Antiqua Familia dicta Amersfoort seu potius Heemsfurt vel Hemefurt a vado Heeme seu
Hemi fluvii." The writer makes mention of the well-known grant of Charlemagne to the cathedral
of Utrecht, by which Lisidunum (Leusden) and four forests on the banks of the Eem were ceded
to this church: Hengestschoten, Fornese, Mocoroth, and Widoc. The writer considers the last-named
forest to be that of Wede or Woden; and derives thence the family-name Weede. Concerning Hengestschoten
is remarked:

    "Hengist, qui circum annum 450 Britanniam insulam cum suis Frisonibus
    et Saxonibus occupat." And further: "Weede nomen adhunc retinere
    videtur a Woden, qui fuit avus avi Hengesti, sicut
    Hengestschoten, nune prædium dominorum Oestbroek, ab Hengisto
    nominatur."

Henschoten was ceded to the abbey of Oestbroek in 1130, and sold at the breaking up of the
monasteries; and is now the property of Mr. Van Asch van Wyck. Since, therefore, the above
extract must have been written before the Reformation, the belief that our forefathers proceeded
from this country is by no means new; and the evidence in its support is, I think, stronger
than that adduced by Turner and Lappenberg in favour of an immigration from Sleswig; indeed
it seems not improbable that the first settlers, with Hengist at their head, sailed from the
mouth of the Eem. I have more to add in a future Number, if "NOTES AND QUERIES" can afford
me space.

J. S.

Woudenberg, April, 1851.

[Footnote 3: Bondam's Charter-boek.]

[Footnote 4: See Gibson, A.-S. Chron.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Villenage.--Can any of your readers inform me at what period villenage became extinct in this
kingdom? I have now before me a grant of a manor from the Crown, in the third and fourth year
of the reigns of King Philip and Queen Mary, conveying, amongst other goods and chattels, the
bondmen, bondwomen, and villeins, with their sequels,--"Nativos, nativas, e villanos cum eoz
sequelis." According to Blackstone, the children of villeins were in the same state of bondage
with their parents; whence they were called, in Latin, "nativi," which gave rise to the female
appellation of a villein, who was called a neife. What I wish to learn is, whether the old
wording of Crown grants had survived the {328} existence of villenage; or whether bondage was
a reality in the reign of Philip and Mary; and if so, at what it became extinct?

H. C.

Workington.

    [Our correspondent's Query is an interesting one; but he does not seem
    to be aware that in our First Vol., p. 139., Mr. E. SMIRKE had given
    the names of three "bondmen of bloude" living near Brighton in 1617.]

Roman Roads near London.--In the most ancient maps of Middlesex that I have seen, there are
no roads marked out. In a folio coloured map of Middlesex, published by Bowen (the date of
which is, I think, 1709, although the same map has various dates, like those of Speed, where
the date only is altered several times), the roads are introduced. A Roman road appears from
the corner of the Tottenham Court Road, where the Hampstead Road and the New Road now meet,
running through what must now be the Regent's Park, until it reaches Edgeware, and thence to
Brockley Hills, called Sulloniacæ, an ancient city in Antonine's Itinerary. The lanes marking
this road are so different from the other roads, as to show at once what is intended; and yet,
either in this same map or in another with the same route, Watling Street is printed upon the
highway that leads to Tyburn Turnpike, in a manner to show the whole of that distance is meant.
The Roman road from Tottenham Court, after making its appearance in a variety of other maps
up to a certain date, about 1780, is nowhere to be found since, in any of the Middlesex maps.
Can any of your readers show by what authority this was first introduced, and why discontinued;
and if the Watling Street branched off, upon its approach to London, where did the part crossing
Oxford Street at Tyburn lead to?

JOHN FRANCIS-X.

Mrs. Catherine Barton.--In Brewster's Life of Sir Isaac Newton, p. 250., is the following passage:

    "This accomplished nobleman was created Earl of Halifax in 1700, and
    after the death of his first wife he conceived a strong attachment for
    Mrs. Catherine Barton, the widow of Colonel Barton, and the niece of
    Newton."

I wish particularly to know the maiden name of this Catherine Barton; she married Mr. Conduitt,
who succeeded Sir I. Newton as Master of the Mint.

J. E. R. S.

Sampford, Braintree, April 7. 1851.

Sempecta at Croyland.--DR. MAITLAND has so kindly answered your correspondent's Query respecting
his work on Mesmerism, that I venture to ask him another, through the medium of your pages.
Where can be found the poem respecting the old soldier monk at Croyland (or Sempecta, as Ingulphus
calls him), from which DR. M. has given extracts in p. 305. of his Dark Ages?

H. R. L.

Trin. Coll.

Schmidt's Antiquitates Neomagensis--Roman Medicine-stamps.--Can any of your readers inform me,--

1st. Of the DATE when Schmidt published his Antiquitates Neomagensis, and WHERE: also in what
libraries it is to be found?

2nd. Of the existence of any Roman medicine-stamps found in the British Islands, as yet undescribed
by those who have written on the subject.

Q.

Sir Harris Nicolas' History of the Royal Navy.--Is there any probability that the History of
the Royal Navy, begun by Sir N. H. Nicolas, and carried by him to the reign of Henry V., will
ever be continued. It is a most valuable work, and was stopped by his lamented death, just
as it was beginning to be most interesting.

E. N. W.

Wooden Baldrocks.--Thanksgiving-book.--In the vestry-books of St. Peter's, Ruthin, co. Denbigh,
there are some entries, explanations of which will be very acceptable.

From 1683, and many subsequent years, there is a constant repetition in the churchwarden's
account of "Wooden Baldrocks," from time to time supplied new to the parish.

In 1704, "A Thanksgiving-book" is charged in the parish accounts.

Query the use and nature of Baldrock? and what book is meant by a Thanksgiving-book?

About the above period, continual payments are made for the destruction of hedgehogs, which
seem to be valued at sixpence a-piece, in some cases fourpence; and to have been allowed in
the parish accounts.

A CHURCHWARDEN.

History of the Jesuits.--Who was the author of A History of the Jesuits; to which is prefixed
a Reply to Mr. Dallas's Defence of that Order. It was published in two volumes 8vo., London,
1816, by Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy, Paternoster Row.

H. R. L.

Trin. Coll.

Mind your P's and Q's.--What is the origin of this phrase? I have heard one solution of it,
but wish to ascertain whether there is any other?

R. D. H.

Mode of hiring Domestic Servants in Holderness--Sittings--Fest.--It is customary once a year
for men and women servants out of place to assemble in the market places of Hedon and Patrington,
the two chief towns in Holderness, and there to await being hired. This very ancient custom
is called Hedon Sittings or Statutes. What is the name derived from? A small sum of money given
to each servant hired, is supposed to legalise the contract, and is called the Fest. From what
is the word derived?

F. R. R.

Home-made Wines.--It is stated in The Times of this morning (Feb. 17) that-- {329}

    "We know from old chronicles that most of the wine drank by Englishmen,
    under the Plantagenets, was of home production."

Can any, and if so what, authority be shown for this statement?

J. SN.

Inscription on a Clock.--Under the curious clock in Exeter Cathedral are inscribed these words:

    "PEREUNT ET IMPUTANTUR, sc. horæ."

I have been told that they are the concluding words of a longer inscription on some foreign
clock. Can any of your readers tell me if they be so?

J. W. HEWETT.

Inscription on the Tomb of Peter the Hermit.--At Huy, on the Meuse, is shown the tomb where
Peter the Hermit was buried: it is in the shape of an obelisk, and has an inscription on each
of the four sides. Of this inscription, which is curious, and which I copied when I was there,
I have lost the greater part: can one of your correspondents supply it for me, or tell where
the lines are originally to be found, as I fancy they are adapted to, and not made for, the
monument.

The part of the inscription which I have runs as follows:

                  (INSCRIPTION.)

 "Soldat du Pape Urbain, aux cris de 'Dieu le veut,'
      Il a précipité l'Europe sur l'Asie;
      Le péril arrivé, sa sainte frenesie
  N'a plus trouvé qu'un cri arrive 'Sauve qui peut.'
                  Dieu,
  L'intolérant l'outrage, insulte à sa grandeur,
  Tel masque qu'il affecte, il n'est qu'une imposteur."

Another two-lined motto is headed "Les Illusions;" and a third, "La Liberté;" but neither these,
nor a longer one (which I fancy introduces the names of Molière, Rousseau, and Fénélon), am
I able to quote.

H. A. B.

Wife of James Torre.-James Torre, the Yorkshire antiquary, married for his first wife Elizabeth
Lincolne (see Ducatus Leod., p. 119. Whitaker's ed.); can any one inform me who was that lady's
father, and if there is any pedigree known of the family?

I have little doubt that the Rev. William Lincolne, rector of Halton, Lincolnshire, mentioned
by Walker, in his Sufferings of the Clergy, b. ii. p. 295., was of the same family.

EDWARD PEACOCK, Jun.

Bottesford Moors.

"The Bear's Bible."--In the library of Queen's College, Oxon, is a copy of the Spanish version
of the Bible, by Cassiod. Reyna (1569), with the following inscription:--

    Ampliss. Antistiti. ac Dño R^{mo} D. Edmundo Grindalo, archiepiscopo
    Cantuariensi, et totius Angliæ primati digniss. Ob erepta hujus
    Hispanicæ versionis sacrorum librorum Scripta ex hostium manibus
    Cassiodorus Reinius ejusdem versionis author gratitudinis ergo et in
    perpetuæ observantiæ pignus D.D.D."

What are the circumstances here alluded to?

H. H. W.

Harris, Painter in Water-Colours.--Some friends of mine have a large paper copy of the edition
of the Bible, published in 1802, by Messrs. Nicoll, of Pall-Mall, and known as "Reeves' Bible,"
which is adorned with a large number of small original drawings in water-colour by "J. Harris,
of Walworth, Surrey." I should be obliged if any of your correspondents can give me any information
respecting Mr. Harris, and can tell me whether he is still living. The drawings were made before
the year 1819.

T. C. W.

University Hoods.--The Scotch universities of Aberdeen, St. Andrew's, and Glasgow had, before
the Reformation, or before the Revolution rather, hoods for the several degrees of M.A., D.D.,
LL.D., and D.C.L. What these were, is a question which it is now very difficult to determine;
but this much is known, that the hoods of Aberdeen were identical with those of Paris, those
of St. Andrew's with those of Louvain, and those of Glasgow with those of Bologna. The Revolution,
however, has done much to obliterate the traces of even the Parisian hoods, and the M.A. hood
of Paris is all that has hitherto rewarded the researches of the university antiquary. Can
any of your readers assist in the somewhat interesting investigation by endeavouring to discover,
or informing us if they already know, what were the hoods of the universities of Paris, Louvain,
and Bologna, for the several degrees I have enumerated.

G. A. J.

"Nullis Fraus tuta latebris."--Can any of your correspondents favour me with a reference to
the above motto?

S. S.

Voltaire, where situated?--The "terre," hamlet, or other property of Voltaire, from which the
French poet took the addition to his paternal name of Arouet,--where situated? That there is,
or at least was, in Voltaire's time, such an estate, Condorcet's statement (vide Voltaire)
makes apparent. But the locality is not pointed out. Can any of your correspondents help me to it?

V.

Table of Prohibited Degrees, 1563.--By the 99th canon of the Church of England the "table of
prohibited degrees" set forth by authority in 1563 is ordered to "be in every church publicly
set up and fixed at the charge of the parish." Is this usually done now? and if not, why is
it omitted to be done?

What is the authority for the insertion of the Canons, or the Articles, or the table of the
{330} prohibited degrees found in the Book of Common Prayer?

J. O. M.

Launcelot Lyttleton.--I shall be greatly obliged to any genealogist who can tell me who was
that Launcelot Lyttleton, a Lichfield gentleman, whose eldest laughter, Mary, married the Hon.
Francis Roper, and became the mother of the fourteenth Lord Teynham. Was this Launcelot a descendant
of Sir Edward Lyttleton, temp. Eliz., who married a daughter of Sir William Devereux?

I could answer my own question by an inspection of the "Roper Roll;" but unfortunately that
is in Ireland, and I may not soon discover the address of its possessor.

H. G. R. C.

Erechtheum.

The Antediluvians.--Can you or any of your learned correspondents inform me of any work likely
to assist me in my researches into the antediluvian history of our race? The curious treatise
of Reimmanus, and the erudite essay of J. Joachimus Maderus, I have now before me; but it occurs
to me that, besides these and the more patent sources of information, such as Bruckerus and
Josephus, there must be other, and perhaps more modern, works which may be more practically
useful. Perhaps the author of the elegant essay on the subject in Eruvin may be able to refer
to such a a work.

G. A. J.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries Answered.

Wither's Haleluiah.--Mr. R. A. Willmott, in his Lives of Sacred Poets, has done himself credit
by doing justice to George Wither, and vindicating his claims as poet, whom it has long been
the fashion to underrate, but who Southey said "had the heart and soul of a poet in him."--(Life,
iii. 126.)

In the Life, Mr. Willmott says:

    "In 1641 appeared the Haleluiah, or Britain's Second Remembrancer ...
    which book, now as scarce as the first Remembrancer is common, I have
    not seen."

It is therefore very probable that the work is seldom to be met with. I have a copy, but it
is unfortunately imperfect; wanting a few leaves (only a few I imagine) at the end. There is
no index, nor table of contents, by which I might ascertain the extent of the deficiency. The
last page is 478, and contains a portion of Hymn 60, part iii. If any reader of "NOTES AND
QUERIES" would kindly inform me what is the number of pages of the work, and where a copy may
be seen, he will oblige

S. S. S.

    [The work consists of 487 pages, with an index of twelve more. A copy
    of it in in the Library of the British Museum.]

Voltaire's Henriade.--Is it known who is the author of the English translation of this poem
into blank verse, published in 1732. The preface and the notes create a desire to know the
author. In one of the notes (17) he speaks of something as being "proved at large in my History
of Christianity now ready for the press." I am not aware that any such work exists. Was it
ever published? If not what became of the manuscript?

S. T. D.

    [Voltaire's Henriade was translated by John Lockman, a gentleman of
    great literary industry, who died Feb. 2, 1771. See Nichols's Bowyer,
    and Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary. A list of his published works
    will be found in Watt's Bibliotheca Britan.]

Christ-Crosse A.--In Tatham's Fancie's Theater, 12mo., 1640, is a poem in praise of sack, wherein
the following lines occur:

 "The very children, ere they scarce can say
  Their Pater Noster, or their Christ-crosse A,
  Will to their Parents prattle, and desire
  To taste that Drinke which Gods doe so admire."

Can any of your readers inform me the meaning of "Christ-Crosse A" here mentioned? Does it
allude to some alphabet then in use?

CATO.

    [The alphabet was so designated, because in the old primers a cross was
    prefixed to it. Nares tells us that in French it was called Croix de
    par Dieu; and upon reference to Cotgrave for an expression of that
    term we find, "The Christ's-cross-row; or the hornbook wherein a child
    learns it."]

Apple-pie Order.--Spick and Span new.--My wife very much grudges my spending threepence a week
for the "NOTES AND QUERIES", and threatens me with stopping the allowance unless I obtain from
some of your correspondents answers to the two following Queries:--

1. What is the origin of the phrase "Apple-pie order?"

2. Ditto--of "Spick and span new?"

JERRY SNEAK.

    [We leave to some of our friends the task of answering the first of the
    Queries which our correspondent has put to us by desire of his
    "better-half."

    There is much curious illustration of the phrase Spick and Span in
    Todd's Johnson, s. v. Spick: and Nares in his Glossary says,
    "Span-newe is found in Chaucer:

     'This tale was aie span-newe to begin.'--Troil. and Cres., iii.
         1671.

    It is therefore of good antiquity in the language, and not having been
    taken from the French may best be referred to the Saxon, in which
    spannan means to stretch. Hence span-new is fresh from the
    stretchers, or frames, alluding to cloth, a very old manufacture of
    the country; and spick and span is fresh from the spike, or tenter,
    and frames. This is Johnson's derivation, and I cannot but think it
    preferable to any other."

    A very early instance of the expression, not quoted by Todd, may be
    found in the Romance of Alexander: {331}

     "Richelich he doth him schrede
      In spon-neowe knightis weode."--L. 4054-5.

    And Weber, in his Glossary (or rather, Mr. Douce, for the "D"
    appended to the note shows it to have proceeded from that accomplished
    antiquary), explains it, "Spon-neowe, span-new, newly spun. This is
    probably the true explanation of spick and span new. Ihre renders
    sping-spang, plane novus, in voce fick fack." The learned Jamieson,
    in his Dictionary, s. v. Split-new (which corresponds to the German
    Splitter neu, i. e. as new as a splinter or chip from the block),
    shows, at greater length than we can quote, that split and span
    equally denote a splinter or chip; and in his Supplement, s. v.
    Spang-new, after pointing out the connexion between spinga (assula)
    and spaungha (lamina), shows that, if this be the original, the
    allusion must be to metal newly wrought, that has, as it were, the
    gloss from the fire on it: in short, that the epithet is the same as
    one equally familiar to us, i. e. fire-new, Germ. vier-neu. We will
    bring this note to a close by a reference to Sewell's Dutch
    Dictionary, where Spikspëlder nieuw is rendered "Spick and span
    new."]

Theory of the Earth's Form.--Have any objections to the received theory of the earth's spherical
form, or any revival of the old "plane" doctrine, been recently noticed and controverted by
scientific men of known standing?

BRUNO.

    [The old theory has been advanced, and even lectured on, within these
    two years; but no notice has been taken of it by scientific men.]

Carolus Lawson.--Who was "Carolus Lawson," of whom I have a good print, engraved by Heath.
He is called "Scholæ Mancuniensis Archididascalus," 1797. "Pietas alumnorum" is inscribed underneath,
and on the back is written, probably by some grateful pupil--

    "Cari propinqui, cari liberi, cari parentes, sed omnes omnium caritates
    Archididascalus noster comprehendit."--Cicero (verbis quibusdam
    mutatis).

NEMO.

    [Mr. Charles Lawson was educated at Corpus Christi College, Oxford, and
    was presented by the president, Dr. Randolph, in 1749, to the place of
    Second Master of Manchester Grammar School; upon the death of Mr.
    Purnell, in 1764, he succeeded him as Head Master. The colleges of St.
    John, in Cambridge, and of Brazenose, in Oxford, can bear witness to
    the success with which he laboured for more than half a century in his
    profession, having received from the Manchester school, whilst under
    his direction, a very considerable number of well-grounded classical
    scholars. He died at Manchester on April 19, 1807, aged seventy-nine.
    Some further particulars respecting him may be found in the
    Gentleman's Magazine, vol. lxxvii. part i. p. 583.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

HAYBANDS IN SEALS.

(Vol. iii., pp. 186. 248. 291.)

I am sorry that in referring to a peculiarity in ancient seals under this title, MR. LOWER
should have pinned to his notice a theory which I feel persuaded is quite untenable. It is
surely something new to those who have directed their attention to the numerous devices upon
seals to find that the husbandman had so low an opinion of his own social status as to reject
the use of any emblematical sign upon his seal, when Thomas the smith, Roger the carpenter,
and William the farrier, bore the elements of their respective crafts as proudly as the knight
did his chevron or fess. But the question is one of facts. The following examples of the use
of the "hayband" are now before me:--

6 June, 7 Henry IV. Grant by John Dursley, citizen and armorer of London, to William Serjaunt
Taverner, of Stanes, and another, of a messuage, &c. in Westminster. Seal of dark red was,
about 1½ inch in diameter; a hay-stalk twisted and pressed into the wax while hot, inclosing
a space as large as a shilling, in which is a poor impression of a badly engraved seal; the
whole very clumsy and rough.

26 November, 24 Henry VI. Grant by Maurice Brune, Knight, Robert Darcy, John Doreward, Henry
Clovill, Esquire, John Grene, and Henry Stampe, to Richard Hill and others, of lands, &c.,
in Sprinfield, &c., in Essex. Each seal is round and thick, and has the impression of a small
armorial bearing. The 1st, 2nd, and 5th seals have a small plaited coil of hay pressed into
the wax, and inclosing the impression.

26 Henry VI. Receipt by Jane Grene for 10l. paid her by the Earl of Ormond. Seal of diminutive
size, and the impression nearly defaced. Round the extreme edge is a "diminutive hayband."

2 January, 34 Henry VI. Grant by Thomas Tudenham, Knight, John Leventhorp, Esquire, and Thomas
Radclyff, of the reversion of the manor of Newhall to John Neell and others. All the seals,
which are large and thick and more than two inches in diameter, have the impression of a signet
ring inclosed with a "hayband" of parchment pressed into them. One of these coils being loose
shows itself to be a thin strip of the label itself brought through the wax.

10 February, 14 Edward IV. Lease by Sir Thomas Urswyk, Knight, Chief Baron of the Exchequer,
and Thomas Lovell, to John Morton and others, of the manor of Newhall, Essex, and other lands,
&c. The seal of Lovell has his armorial bearings and legend; that of the Lord Chief Baron is
the impression of a signet ring, being a classical bust. The seal itself is a thick ball of
wax about {332} two inches across, pressed into the face of which is a "hayband" or twisted
coil of thin parchment inclosing the impression.

I am sure that I have seen many examples much earlier and later, but those given are merely
in reference to the theory of your Lewes correspondent. Even they are surely inconsistent with
the idea of the practice being peculiar to any locality or distinctive of any class. My recollection
would lead me to assign the fourteenth to the sixteenth centuries as the period of its use.
But still the question remains--Has it any, and what signification? I have always considered
it to have been a contrivance to strengthen the substance of the seal itself. The earliest
instances I have seen were "appliqué" seals, such as the royal privy seals, and with these
it would seem to have originated. Their frail nature suggested the use of some substance to
protect the thin layer of wax from damage by the crumpling of the parchment on which they were
impressed. For some time its use was confined to this kind of seal; and fashion may perhaps
have extended the practice to pendent seals, where, however, it was often efficacious in neutralising
the bad quality of the wax so general in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The plaiting
of the hay or straw sometimes assumed a fanciful shape. Although the impressions of seals of
the time of Henry VII. are often very bad, there are generally traces of their existence; these
may perhaps be discovered in MR. LOWER'S seals if he looks more to the enclosure than to the
substance forming it.

JOSEPH BURTT.

Haybands in Seals.--M. A. LOWER thinks that MR. T. HUDSON TURNER has misapplied his description
of the seals in his possession. The seals are not impressed upon haybands, neither do "some
ends of the hay or straw protrude from the surface." The little fillet or wreath of hay, about
equal in diameter to a shilling, is inlaid upon the pendent lump of wax, and forms the ornament
or device of the seal, rather than an integral portion of it, like that in the specimens referred
to by MR. TURNER.

M. A. LOWER begs, under favour, to add, that the very fact of a Query being inserted in the
pages of this invaluable--one might almost say indispensable--publication, implies a candid
avowal pro tanto of ignorance on the part of the Querist, who might reasonably expect a plain
answer, unaccompanied by any ungracious reflection on the side of the more highly-gifted savant
that furnished the reply. As a simple matter of taste, many other correspondents besides MARK
ANTONY LOWER may probably object, like the latter's eminent namesake, Mr. Tony Weller, to being
"pulled up so wery short," especially in cases where there is a clear misapprehension on the
part of the respondent.

Haybands in Seals.--It is impossible for one moment to doubt the correctness of MR. HUDSON
TURNER'S remarks on this question, and I hasten to retract my own suggestions, frankly acknowledging
them to be erroneous.

I had always taken the same view as MR. TURNER (for it is very palpable to the eye, and speaks
for itself), till diverted from it by one of those sudden fancies which, spite of all caution,
will ever and anon unaccountably cross the mind and bewilder the better judgment. To have established
my view, these rushes should have been proved to be affixed to deeds of feoffment alone; a
point which, at the moment, I overlooked. Even while I write, I have before me a lease granted
by the abbey of Denney in the fifteenth century, with a rush in the seal; and MR. TURNER'S
cited instances of royal charters put an end to all question.

Lest others be led astray by my freak of fancy, without an opportunity of correcting it by
MR. TURNER'S statement, the proper course for me is to acknowledge myself wrong--palpably,
unmistakeably wrong,--MR. TURNER'S explanation is the correct one; thanks to him for it--liberavi
animam meam.

L. B. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

NORTH SIDE OF CHURCHYARDS.

(Vol. ii., pp. 93. 253.; Vol. iii., p. 125.)

Your correspondents on this subject have generally taken it as granted, that the prejudice
against burying in this portion of the churchyard is almost universal. In a former communication
(Vol. ii., p. 93.) I stated that there are at least some exceptions. Since that time I have
visited perhaps a hundred churchyards in the counties of York, Derby, Stafford, Bucks, Herts,
and Oxford, and in nearly half of these burial had evidently been long since practised on the
north side of the several churches. The parish church of Ashby de la Zouch is built so near
the south wall of the churchyard, that the north must clearly have been designed for sepulture.
I was incumbent of an ancient village church in that neighbourhood, which is built in the same
manner, with scarcely any ground on the south, the north being large and considerably raised
by the numerous interments which have taken place in it. It has also some old tombs, which
ten years ago were fast falling to decay. The part south of the church contains very few graves,
and all apparently of recent date.

In my former communication I mentioned, that in this churchyard burial has been chiefly, till
of late, on the north side of the church; and, since that communication, a vault has been made
on the south side, which has convinced us the ground had never before been there broken up.
The soil is chalk; whereas, whenever a grave is made on the north side, human dust and bones
are so {333} abundant, that the chalk soil has almost lost its nature.

Till more light can be thrown on the subject than what has yet appeared in "NOTES AND QUERIES,"
I cannot but retain my original opinion, viz., that the favourite part of interment, in earlier
times, was that nearest the principal entrance into the church. The original object of burying
in churches and churchyards was the better to insure for the dead the prayers of the worshippers,
as they assembled for public devotion. Hence the churchyard nearest the entrance into church
would be most in request. The origin of the prejudice for the south side, which I believe to
be of recent date, may, I doubt not, be ascertained from any superstitious cottager who entertains
it. "It would be so cold, sir," said one to me, "to be always lying where the sun would never
shine on me."

If your correspondent on this subject in Vol. iii., p. 125., would ask an old inhabitant of
his parish which is the backside of their church, and why it is so called? he would probably
come at the fact. I would refer him to Burn's History of Parish Registers, page 96., foot-note,
where he will find it stated that "a part of the churchyard was sometimes left unconsecrated,
for the purpose of burying excommunicated persons."

W. HASTINGS KELKE.

Drayton Beauchamp.

North Side of Churchyards.--Your correspondents seem to be agreed as to the facts, not as to
the origin of the objection. I suspect MR. HAWKER (Vol. ii., p. 253.) is nearest the truth;
and the following, from Coverdale on Praying for the Dead, may help to strengthen his conjecture:

    "As men die, so shall they arise: if in faith in the Lord towards
    the south, they need no prayers; they are presently happy, and shall
    arise in glory: if in unbelief without the Lord towards the north,
    then are they past all hope."

N. S.

North Side of Churchyards (Vol. ii., pp. 253. 346.).--The subjoined extract from Bishop Wilkins's
Discourse concerning a New Planet, tending to prove that it is probable our Earth is one of
the Planets, 8vo., 1640, pp. 64-66., will serve to illustrate the passage from Milton, of the
north being "the devoted region of Satan and his hosts:"

    "It was the opinion of the Jewish rabbies, that man was created with
    his face to the east; therefore the Hebrew word signifies ante, or
    the east; post, or the west; dextra, or the south; sinistra, or
    the north. You may see all of them put together in that place of Job
    xxiii. From hence it is that many of the ancients have
    concluded hell to be in the north, which is signified by the left hand;
    unto which side, our Saviour tells us, that the goats shall be divided.
    Which opinion likewise seems to be favoured by that place in Job xxvi.
    6, 7., where it is said, "Hell is naked before God, and destruction
    hath no covering.' And presently it is added, 'He stretcheth out the
    north over the empty place.' Upon these grounds, St. Jerome interprets
    that speech of the Preacher, Eccles. xi. 3.: 'If the tree fall toward
    the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth,
    there shall it be,' concerning those who shall go either to heaven or
    hell. And in this sense also do some expound that of Zechariah (xiv.
    4.), where it is said that 'the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the
    midst: half of it shall remove toward the north, and half of it toward
    the south.' By which it is intimated, that amongst those Gentiles, who
    shall take upon them the profession of Christ, there are two sorts:
    some that go to the north, that is, to hell; and others to the south,
    that is, to heaven. And therefore it is, say they, that God so often
    threatens evil out of the north: and upon this ground it is, saith
    Besoldus, that there is no religion that worships that way. We read of
    the Mahometans, that they adore towards the south; the Jews towards the
    west; Christians towards the east; but none to the north."

J. Y.

Hoxton.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ROLLIAD, AND SOME OF ITS WRITERS.

(Vol. iii., p. 276.)

MR. DAWSON TURNER asks for information regarding three writers in the Rolliad, viz.: Tickell,
Richardson, and Fitzpatrick. Memoirs of the first two are given in Chalmers's Dictionary; but
in Moore's Life of Sheridan, MR. TURNER will find several notices of them, far more attractive
than dry biographical details. They were both intimately associated with Sheridan; Tickell,
indeed, was his brother-in-law. One would prefer calling them his friends, but steady friendship
must rest upon a firmer basis than those gifts of wit, talent, and a keen sense of the ridiculous,
which prevailed so largely amongst this clever trio.

Tickell's production, Anticipation, is still remembered from its cleverness and humour; but
when every speaker introduced into its pages has long been dead, and some of them were little
known to fame, the pamphlet is preserved by a few solely from the celebrity which it once possessed.

His death in 1793 was a most melancholy one. It is described by Professor Smyth in in his interesting
Memoir of Sheridan, a book printed some years ago for distribution among his friends, and which
well deserves publication.

Independent of his contributions to the Rolliad, {334} Richardson did little as an author.
His comedy of The Fugitive, acted and published in 1792, was well received, and is much praised.
Why has this production so completely disappeared?

General Fitzpatrick was born in 1749, and died in 1815. He was the second son of John, Earl
of Upper Ossory; twice Secretary-at-War; once secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland,
the Duke of Portland, but what he regarded as his highest distinction, and it is recorded on
his tomb, was the friendship of Fox during forty years of their lives.

Some of his speeches on the union with Ireland will be found in the thirty-fourth volume of
the Parliamentary History.

His epitaph, by himself, is inscribed on a sarcophagus in the church-yard at Sunning Hill,
in which he describes himself--what his friends admitted to be truth--a politician without
ambition, a writer without vanity.

Which is the true reading in the following lines by Fitzpatrick on Fox? In my copy the word
"course" in the third line is erased, and the word "mind" is substituted.

 "A patriot's even course he steered,
  Mid Faction's wildest storms unmoved:
  By all who marked his course revered,
  By all who knew his heart beloved." But there is always something that
    equalises. In return, more than any other production, it suffers
    suddenly and irretrievably from the hand of Time."

Still some publications, from their wit and brilliancy, are sufficiently buoyant to float down
to posterity. The publication in question, the Rolliad, is one; the Anti-Jacobin another. You
may not be unwilling, in your useful pages, to give a list of some of the writers in the latter
publication. My own copy of it is marked from that belonging to one of the writers, and is
as follows:--

  Nos. 1. 4. 9. 19. 26, 27--33., by Mr George Ellis.
  Nos. 6. and 7., by Messrs. Ellis and Frere.
  Nos. 20, 21, 22. 30--36., by Mr. Canning.
  No. 10. by M.; No. 13. by C. B.; No. 39. by N.

To the remaining numbers, neither names nor initials are affixed. Can any of your readers explain
the initials, M., C. B., and N., and give us the authors of the remaining numbers?

In replying to Mr. TURNER'S Queries, I shall attend to the wish expressed by so old and so
valued a friend, and substitute for initials, of which he disapproves, the name of

J. H. MARKLAND.

       *       *       *       *       *

RICHARDSON--TICKELL--FITZPATRICK.

(Vol. iii., p. 276.)

I am much surprised at MR. DAWSON TURNER'S inquiry about these names. I will not say with him
that, "not to know them argues himself unknown." On the contrary, my wonder is, that one, himself
so well and so favourably known as MR. TURNER, should have need to ask such a question about
men with whom, or, at least, with whose fame, he must have been a contemporary, presuming,
as I do, that he is the same MR. DAWSON TURNER with whose works we have been acquainted for
above half a century. Since, however, he has made the Query, I will answer it as succinctly
as I can.

The Right Honourable Richard Fitzpatrick was the only brother of the last Earl of Upper Ossory,
and prominent in fashion, in politics, and in elegant literature, and not undistinguished as
a soldier. He sat in nine successive parliaments (in two which I knew him). As early as 1782
he was Secretary for Ireland, and in 1783 Secretary-at-War, which office he again filled in
1806. In the galaxy of opposition wits, when opposition was wittiest, Fitzpatrick was generally
admitted to be the first, and there were those who thought him in general powers superior even
to Fox and Sheridan. His oratory, however, did not do justice to his talents, and he was both
shy and indolent. His best speech was that in December, 1796, for the release of Lafayette,
to which even the ridicule of the Anti-Jacobin allowed the merit of pathetic eloquence. His
share in the Rolliad was considerable, and there are many other sprightly and some elegant
specimens of his poetical talents scattered through various publications. I wish they were
collected.

Richard Tickell, the grandson of Addison's friend, and brother-in-law to Sheridan, was the
author of Anticipation, one of the liveliest political pamphlets ever written. He published
many occasional poems, the best of which is a poetical "Epistle from Charles Fox, partridge
shooting, to Lord John Townsend, cruising." MR. DAWSON TURNER will find more about him in the
Biographical Dictionary.

Joseph Richardson, who died in 1803, was M.P. for Newport in three parliaments. He was an intimate
friend of Sheridan's, and partner with him in Drury Lane Theatre. He wrote a play, entitled
The Fugitive; but he is only remembered for his contributions (whatever they were) to the Rolliad.
In the Gentleman's Magazine (vol. lxxiii. p. 602.), MR. DAWSON TURNER will find a longer notice
of him.

There are a few remarks on the authors of the Rolliad in Moore's Life of Sheridan, i. 420.

C.

       *       *       *       *       * {335}

QUAKERS' ATTEMPT TO CONVERT THE POPE.

(Vol. iii., p. 302.)

I have never met with any satisfactory account of this singular Quaker aggression. Perhaps
it may be a contribution towards one if you can find room for some notice of a tract in my
possession. It is entitled, A Narrative of some of the Sufferings of J. P. in the City of Rome.
London, printed for Thomas Simmons, at the Bull and Mouth, near Aldersgate, 1661, 4to., pp.
16. This narrative of John Perrot's does not, however, give any particulars respecting his
going to Rome, or the proceedings which led to his captivity there, but begins with the words--

    "When I was cast into Prison, because I loved the souls of my enemies,"
    &c.;

and after eight pages, chiefly occupied by inflated description of his sorrows, from which
one obtains no facts, he tells us that God took pity on him,

    "And raised up his little babe, my dear Brother Thomas Hart, to set his
    tender soul nearer unto my sufferings, and made him take my burdens on
    his back, and the yoak of my tribulation on his neck, and made him sup
    of my sore sorrows, and drink of the bleedings of my grief,'--

and so he goes on; but we do not learn what Thomas Hart did, except that he comforted John
Perrot in his confinement.

    "Moreover," he says, "the everlasting mercies of my God did stir up the
    bowels of other two of his tender babes, named in the tent Jane Stokes
    and Charles Baylie, to come to visit me whilest I was as forsaken of
    all men."

They persevered, he tells us,

    "in their pilgrimage until they arrived to Rome, where C. B. offered
    his life to ransom me, and both of them entered into captivity for the
    love which they bore to my life."

His Narrative (strictly speaking) contains no further information, but that at the bottom of
the tenth page it is dated and signed,

    "Written in Rome Prison of Madmen. JOHN."

The remaining six pages of the pamphlet consist of a letter from Charles Baylie, giving an
account of his pilgrimage with Jane Stokes, from Dover to Calais, Paris, Marseilles, Genoa, until

    "Arriving," he says, "safe at Rome, we were drawn in our lives directly
    to the place where the dearly beloved J. P. was, and coming to the
    prison door, I enquired for him, and having answer of his being there,
    I desired for to speak with him, but it would not be permitted us; So
    it was said in me, Write unto him, which I did, the which he answered
    us in the fulness of love, which refreshed us after our weary steps;
    For our souls were refreshed one in another, though one another's faces
    we had never seen to the outward, and then we being kept in a holy fear
    not to do nor act one way nor other, but as we were moved of the Lord,
    least we should add to his bonds,--I say, being thus kept, we were
    delivered out of the snare of the fowler, who secretly lay in wait to
    betray our innocency; And after a little time the Lord showed me I
    should go to the inquisition, which I did, and enquired for the
    Inquisitor, as I was showed of the Lord I should do; and when I spoke
    to him I told him I was come from England for to see my brother
    J. P.; to which he answered, I should see him, and appointed me to
    come to a certain place called Minerva, and there, saith he, I will
    procure you the liberty of the Cardinalls to see him; he had me also
    to the Inquisition office, where he asked many questions of me
    concerning our religion, to which I answered in the simplicity of my
    heart in the fear of the Lord; and at the appointed time I came to the
    place aforesaid, and there I was showed what further I should do, which
    was to tender my body for my brother; and so from that time I hardly
    missed opportunity to speak to them as often as they met: for their
    manner was thus to meet twice a-week, the one time at Minerva, and
    the other time at Monte-Cavallo, where the Pope's own dwelling is,
    where I also did the like, more than once, which stirred them up
    against me, in great enmity," &c.

I am afraid I am trespassing on your overfilled columns; but--omitting his account of his going
to the Jews' synagogue, and of the command which he received to fast twenty days as a testimony
against those who falsely stated that John Luffe had fasted nineteen days and died on the twentieth--omitting
this, I must give one more extract. Having been detained in one of his visits to the Minerva,
he says:

    "From thence I was carried to the Inquisition, where I was shut up
    close, and after I had been there 3 dayes the Lord said to me, Thou
    must go to the Pazzarella, which was the Prison or Hospital of mad
    men, where our dear brother was prisoner; and it was also said unto me,
    Thou shalt also speak to the Pope; And at the 17 dayes end, I was led
    from the Inquisition towards the other prison, and by the way I met the
    Pope carried in great pomp; as it was the good will of the Lord that I
    should speak unto him, men could not prevent it, for I met him towards
    the foot of a bridge, where I was something nigh him, and when he came
    against me, the people being on their knees on each side of him, I
    cried to him with a loud voice in the Italian tongue, To do the thing
    that was Just, and to release the Innocent; and whilest I was
    speaking, the man which led me had not power to take me away until I
    had done, and then he had me to prison where my endeared brother was,
    where I fasted about 20 dayes as a witness against that bloody
    generation," &c.

As to how they got out, he only says:

    "Soon after my fast, the Lord, by an outstretched arm, wrought our
    deliverance, being condemned to perpetual galley-slavery, if ever we
    returned again unto Rome."

It appears, however, that though thus prevented from exercising his office of a missionary
in Rome, Charles Baylie did not relinquish it. In the letter just quoted he informs his correspondent
(who this was does not appear), that since he had seen his face, he had been several times
(as he was while {336} writing) shut up in strong prisons; and the letter is dated

    "The third of the sixth month, 1661. From the Common Gaol in Burkdou,
    in France, about thirty leagues from Dover, where I am a sufferer
    for speaking the Word of the Lord to two Priests, saying, All Idols,
    all Idolatries, and all Idol Priests must perish."

John Perrot seems to have considered that his mission extended over all the world. While in
Rome Prison of Madmen, he wrote an address "To all people upon the face of the Earth," which
he "sent thence the 8th of the 10th month, 1660;" and he was, no doubt, the author of the tract
which follows it (and precedes the narrative) in my volume, entitled "Blessed openings of a
day of good things to the Turks. Written to the Heads, Rulers, Ancients, and Elders of their
Land, and whomsoever else it may concern," though it is only signed "JOHN." To him also, I
suppose, we must ascribe another tract, Discoveries of the Day-dawning to the Jewes. Whereby
they may know in what state they shall inherit the riches and glory of Promise. "J. P." is
all that is given for the author's name on the title-page, but the tract is signed [Hebrew:
JWHN], that is, John. He too, I presume, was the author of another of the tracts, An Epistle
to the Greeks, especially to those in and about Corinth and Athens, &c. Written in Egripo in
the Island of Negroponte, by a Servant of the Lord: J. P. He seems to have been at Athens on
the 27th day of the 7th month, in the year accounted 1657, being the first day of the week,
the day of Greek solemn worship, and to have been "conversant" with Carlo Dessio and Gumeno
Stephaci, "called Greek doctors."

S. R. M.

Gloucester.

       *       *       *       *       *

SNAIL-EATING.

(Vol. iii., p. 221.)

Snail-eating is by no means uncommon. When I was a youth I took a dozen snails every morning
to a lady who was of a delicate constitution, and to whom they were recommended as wholesome
food. They were boiled, and mixed up with milk. They were the common snail, usually found about
old garden walls. A friend of mine, in walking round his garden, was in the habit of picking
the snails off his fruit-trees and eating them raw. He was somewhat fastidious, for I have
seen him take a snail, put it to his tongue, and reject it as not of a good flavour, and select
another more agreeable to his taste. We are strange creatures of habit, especially in our feeding.
I am fond of oysters, muscles, and cockles; but I do not think anything could induce me to
taste a snail, a periwinkle, or a limpet.

B. H.

Snail-eating.--This practice is very general in Italy. While residing near Florence, my attention
was often attracted by a heap of fifty or one hundred very clean, empty, snail-shells, in a
ditch, or under a bush; and I indulged in many vain speculations, before I could account for
so strange a phenomenon.

One day, however, I happened to meet the contadina coming out of my garden with a basket on
her arm; and from her shy, conscious manner, and an evident wish to avoid my seeing the contents,
I rather suspected she had been making free with my peaches. To my surprise, however, I found
that she was laden with the delicious frutta-di-terra (sometimes so called, as the Echinus,
so common along the Italian coast, is called frutta-di-mare); and thinking that she had been
collecting them simply from regard to my fruit and vegetables, I thanked her for her kind services.
But she understood me ironically, and, with a good deal of confusion, offered to carry them
to the kitchen, apologising most elaborately, and assuring me that she would on no account
have taken them, had not our cook told her that we despised them, and that she would no doubt
be welcome. I asked her what in the world she intended to do with them? and, with a look of
amazement at my question, even surpassing mine at her reply, she informed me that her brother
and his wife had come to pay them a visit, and that, with my kind permission, she would thus
treat them to "una bellissima cena." She had collected about three quarts, during a search
of two hours. The large brown kind only are eaten. Among the poor they are generally esteemed
a delicacy, and reputed to be marvellously nutritious.

NOCAB.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR JOHN DAVIES, DAVIS, OR DAVYS.

(Vol. iii., p. 82.)

The following additional particulars of this eminent lawyer and poet may be deemed interesting.
In a letter from Mr. Pary to the Rev. Josiah Mead, of the 26th November, 1626, it is stated:

    "Tomorrow, it is said Sergeant Richardson shall be Lord Chief Justice
    of the Common Pleas, and Sir John Davis nominated to the King's Bench,
    because he hath written a book in defence of the legality of this new
    Loan."

In another letter of the 9th December, 1626, it is stated:

    "I heard last night that Sergeant Davis, who it is said looked to be
    Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench, in place of Sir Randal Crew,
    was found dead in his bed."

And, again, in a letter from the Rev. Josiah Mead to Sir Martin Stuteville, of the 16th Dec., 1626:

    "This of the death of Sir John Davis, for aught I {337} can hear, holds
    true. It is added, that he was at supper with my Lord Keeper that
    evening before I was told by him that he should be Lord Chief Justice
    of the King's Bench; but he lived not to see the morning. My Lord of
    Huntingdon rode up, upon this news, for he is his heir."

Ferdinando Lord Hastings, eldest son of Henry, Earl of Huntingdon, married Lucy, daughter and
heiress of Sir John Davis, and in 1613 succeeded his father as Earl of Huntingdon.

Sir John Davis married Lady Eleanor, only daughter of the Earl of Castlehaven, and sister of
the infamous Earl. She remarried Sir Archibald Douglas, and died in 1652. She was the lady
of the anagram celebrity, "Reveal, oh, Daniel," and "Never so mad a lady." There is no doubt
that she and her brother were as mad as could well be.

In a letter from Mr. Edward Rossingham to Sir Thomas Puckering, dated 4th January, 1636, it
is stated:

    "Sunday before Christmas the Bishop, Dean, and Chapter of Lichfield
    sent up a complaint against the Lady Eleanor Davis. It seems the
    cathedral church in Lichfield is lately very beautifully set out with
    hangings of arras behind the altar, the Communion table handsomely
    railed in, and the table itself set out in the best manner, and the
    Bishop's seat fairly built. This Lady came one Communion day, in the
    morning, with a kettle in one hand and a brush in the other, to
    sprinkle some of her holy water (as she called that in the kettle) upon
    these hangings and the Bishop's seat, which was only a composition of
    tar, pitch, sink-puddle water, &c., and such kind of nasty ingredients,
    which she did sprinkle upon the aforesaid things. This being the act of
    a mad woman, the Lords, to prevent further mischief, have given out two
    warrants, the one to bring the Lady to Bethlehem, the other to the
    keeper of Bethlehem to receive her. There are messengers gone into
    Staffordshire to bring her up."

It appeared afterwards she was so poor, that it became a question at the Council who should
maintain her. She seems to have been wholly neglected by her second husband.

Sir John Davis and his lady are buried in the church of St. Martin's in the Fields, and the
following are their epitaphs, from Strype's Stow, book vi. p. 72.:

    "D. O. M. S. Johannes Davys, Equestris ordinis quondam Attornati Regis
    Generalis amplissima Provincia in regno Hib. functus. Inde in Patriam
    revocatus inter Servientes Domini Regis ad Legem primum locum
    sustinuit. Ob. 1626."

    "Acc[=u]bat dignissimo marito incomparabilis Uxor, &c., 1652."

    "Note.--She was the Lady Eleanora, the only daughter of the Earl of
    Castlehaven, Baron Audley."

W. H. LAMMIN.

Fulham, April 15. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

LOCKE MSS.

(Vol. ii., p. 413.)

In reference to an inquiry after MSS. relating to Locke, I enclose particulars of a small 4to.
MS. volume in my possession.

THOMAS KERSLAKE.

    "MANUSCRIPT.--LOCKE'S (John, an Attorney living at Publow, and
    father of the illustrious Metaphysician of the same name) Common-Place
    Book, containing Matters (relating to the Hundreds of Chew, Chewton,
    Kainsham, Brewton, Catsashe, Norton Ferris, Horethorne, Froome,
    Wellowe, Whitstone, Wells Forum, Portbury, Bathe Forum, Winterstoke,
    Bempstone, Kilmersdon, Brent, Hartliffe and Bedminster, Hampton and
    Claverton, and Phillips Norton Liberties, Glaston, Queene Camell, &c.)
    of daily use to him as Court Keeper to Col. Alex. Popham, a Magistrate
    and Leader of Parliamentary Forces in Somersetsh., variously dated
    from 1629 to 1655, all in the handwriting of the elder John
    Locke,--also many entries by other hands of other matters, in the
    remaining leaves of the same volume, many of which are probably in the
    handwriting of the afterwards distinguished younger John Locke, 4to.
    original vellum wrapper, 12l. 12s.

    Contains:--

    Entries of Bailments and Bindings over of Prosecutors in cases of
    Felony which occurred in the neighbourhood of Pensford, for the Assizes
    at Bath, Taunton, Bridgewater, and Wells, 1630-31.

    Appointment at Bathe of Overseers of Woollen Cloth, 1631, for Chew,
    Dundry, Chewstoke, Ubley, Mids. Norton, Kainsham, Publow, Kelston,
    Mounton Coombe, Bathford, Bathwicke, Freshford, Weston, Froome, Rode,
    Beckington, Lullington, Berkley, Chew, Mells, and Leigh, Colsford,
    Hampton et Claverton, Batheaston, Charterhouse Hinton, with the names
    of the Overseers.

    Scotch Postures (Humorous).

    Names of the Tithings in the Hundreds of Chew, Chewton, and Kainsham.

    Abp. Usher on the Liturgie and Episcopall Government, 1640.

    The Sums of the Payment of each Tithing of the above hundreds of the
    1st of 15th and 10th of the Subsidy of 3-15ths and 10ths to K. James,
    to declare war against Spain, 1623-4.

    The Yearlie Proportion of the Severall Hundreds of the Easterne
    Division of the Countie towarde the releife of the Hospitall,
    1632.--Ditto, Westerne Division.

    The Yearlie Rate for the Maymed Soldiers of every Hundred and Libertie
    within this County of Somerset.

    The Rate of Kainsham Hundred, with the amount of each Parish.

    A Rate devised at Hinton in 1601, for the raising of 100 men for
    Ireland, with consent of the Bath Magistrates, and their names.

    The number and proportion of Shipping within Englande and Wales, to be
    made readie against Mar. 1, 1635.

    Hundred of Kainsham, Quarterlie Payment of each tithing to the
    Hospitalls and Maymed Soldiers.

    A Rate made at Pensford 23rd Sept., 1635, for the raising of 160l.
    {338}

    The Assizes holden at Bathe, 24th July, 1637, before the Right Honble.
    S. Fynch,--the Names of the Justices (among whom are John Stowell,
    Ralph Hopton, John Horner, Rob. Hopton, John Harington, &c.), and the
    Names of the Grand Jury.

    Subsidie 17th Charles:--A Particular how each Tithing within the
    Hundreds of Chew, Chewton, and Kainsham stands chardged, for the
    Reliefe of his Maties Army and the Northerne parte of the Kingdom,
    Thomas Hunt of Dundry, Collector.

    The Protestation by Order of Parliament, 5^o Maij, 1641,--with Jo.
    Locke's acceptance of the Protestation in the Parish Church of Publoe,
    3rd Apr., 1642.

    Kainsham:--The "Purblinde, Partiall, and Innovated Rate" of this Hund.,
    24th Sept., 1649.

    Kainsham Hund.--A Rate for Ship-money--with the Particulars of every
    Tithing, Parish, and Particular Person chardged--contains the name of
    every rateable person in the parishes of Burnet, Preston, Stanton Drew,
    Stanton Prior, Salford, Publoe, Marksbury, Chelworth, Shrubwell,
    Belluton, Compton Dando, Farmborrow, Chewton, Whitchurch, Charlton,
    Brislington, and Kainsham, with the amount of this celebrated tax
    assessed to each person.

    The Names of the Lords Lieutenants nominated by the Howse of Comons,
    1641.

    The Muster Roll of the Collonell Sir Rawfe Hopton, Knight, his Band of
    200 foote Soldiers, within the Eastern Division, and Regiment of the
    Countie of Somerset.--Bathe, xxi^o xxij^{do} Maij, 1639.--(Contains, a
    List of the Officers, "William Tynte," &c.--a list of bearers of Pikes,
    with the Names of the Soldiers and of the gentlemen or tithings for
    whom they serve,--also a similar list of the bearers of "Shott.")

    A list of Parishes in the Deaneries of Froome and Bedminster, with the
    name of the Clergyman of each, the arms supplied by him, and the Names
    of the men who bore them.

    A Rate for raising £41-00-03 per mensem, in the hund. of Kainsham, for
    Generall Fairfax Army, 1648.

    Several Papers relating to Differences concerning Rates between the In
    Hundred and Out Hundred of Kainsham.

    Particulars and Value of Feer's Tenement, in Belluton, now in the
    possession of Henry Stickland, given in by him this day, 24 Dec., 1655.

    Rente to my Landlord, Coll. Alex. Popham, out of the 3 Tenements I hold
    in Publoe, and the Lives thereon at the time of their obtaining, 1650.

    A Receipt for his Rente at Publoe, 3. 8bris & 11 Dec., 1638.

    The above are in the handwriting of Jo. Locke, the elder; in another
    hand, on blank covers, left by the former, are--Propositions on

      Philosophy:--Phisicke, Ethike, and Dialectike.
      De Providentia Dei et ad genus.
      De Prædestinatione.
      Propositiones Catholicæ.

    N.B. One of the later chapters of the Essay on the Human Understanding
    is treated under propositions nearly identical with the leaf of the MS.
    which is described in the preceding four lines.

      Copia Actus locationis Mensæ Dominicæ in Ecclesia S. Gregorij
          Civitatis London.
      Character of Drunkenness (Rhyme), &c. &c.

    At the end, in several hands, are various receipts: one in the elder
    Locke's handwriting, 'The Weapon Salve, and the use thereof, as it was
    sent unto mee as a most excellent and rare secret from my Cosin
    Alderman John Locke[5], of Bristoll, in his Letter, dat. 5^o Apr.
    1650,'--also 'To make Shineing Inke', signed 'J L: Ox:'

    On the last leaf is a record of the Births, Marriages and Deaths of the
    Locke Family, from 1603 to 1624, including that of John Locke, the
    father, 29 April, 1606."

[Footnote 5: High Sheriff of Bristol in 1626, and the Mayor of Bristol in 1641 who refused
admittance to the royal forces. See Barrett and Seyer.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Defoe's Anticipations (Vol. iii., p. 287.).--Defoe had probably seen the English translation,
or rather abridgment, of Father Dos Santos's Ethiopia Oriental, in Purchas's Pilgrimes (vol.
ii. 1544, fol. ed.), in which some hints are given of the great lake (nyassi, i. e. sea) Maravi,
which lies nearly parallel with the eastern coast, and was known to D'Anville, in whose map
Massi is misengraved for Niassi. A very careful examination of the Portuguese expeditions across
the continent of Africa has been given by Mr. Cooley, in the Journal of the Royal Geographical
Society (vol. xv. p. 185.; xvi. p. 138.), and he has ascertained, approximately, the extent
and position of that great lake, which, from distrust of D'Anville, one of the most exact geographers,
had been expunged from all modern maps. It is considerably to the N. and E. of the Nyami lately
determined, and of much greater extent.

ANATOL.

Epitaph in Hall's Discovery (Vol. iii., p. 242.).--The work entitled Discovery of a New World,
or a Description of the South Indies, hitherto unknown, by an English Mercury, imprinted by
E. Blount, no date, 12mo., is not, as our correspondent supposes, very rare, nor is it by Bishop
Hall. It is a free translation, or rather paraphrase, and an excellent one in its way, by John
Healey, of Bishop Hall's very entertaining Mundus Alter et Idem, first published in 12mo.,
Francof., without date, afterwards reprinted with Campanella's Civitas Solis and Bacon's Atlantis
at Utrecht, 1643, 24mo., and subsequently included in the edition of Bishop Hall's works by
Pratt, 10 vols., Lond., 1808, 8vo. The epitaph quoted is not a satire upon any statesman of
the time. The writer is describing the Land of Changeableness, or, as it is called in the Latin
original, "Variana vel Moronia Mobilis," and gives in the course of his description this epitaph
on Andreas Vortunius (a vertendo), or, as he is styled in the English {339} translation, "Andrew
Turncoate." The epitaph occurs in p. 132. of the Latin edition of 1643, and is evidently, as
indicated by the marginal notes, an imitation or parody of the famous one on Æelia Lælia Crispis,
which has exercised the ingenuity of so many writers, and of which our own countryman, Richard
White, of Basingstoke, the historian, has given three different interpretations. See his Ælia
Lælia Crispis, Epitaphium Antiquum quod in Agro Bononiensi adhuc videtur, a diversis interpretatum
varie, novissime autem a Richardo Vito explicatum, Padua, 1568, 4to. An article on this epitaph
and its various interpreters, of whom I have collected about forty, might be made a very interesting
one.

JAMES CROSSLEY.

    [We wish MR. CROSSLEY--than whom no one is more competent--would favour
    us with such an article. The following communication from MR. FORBES is
    only one of several we have received, showing that the interest in this
    enigma is not abated.]

Epitaph in Hall's Discovery (Vol. iii., p. 242.).--When this epitaph is assigned to its right
owner, it may perhaps throw some light on its twin-brother--the epitaph on "Ælia Lælia Crispis"--"about
which many of the learned have puzzled their heads." (See Encyc. Brit., article "Ænigma.")
I enclose a copy of this epitaph, which you can use or not, as you please. If you think that
it might help to "unearth" Mister Andrew Turnecoate, you may perhaps like to lay it before
your readers; if, on the other hand, that it would but increase the difficulty of the operation
by distracting attention needlessly, you can hand it over to "the Editor's best friend"--the fire.

        "D. M.

     Ælia Lælia Crispis,
     Nec vir, nec mulier,
        Nec androgyna
    Nec puella, nec juvenis,
          Nec anus;
    Nec casta, nec meretrix,
         Nec pudica;
         Sed omnia;
          Sublata
   Neque fame, neque ferro,
       Neque veneno;
        Sed omnibus:
    Nec coelo, nec terris,
         Nec aquis,
      Sed ubique jacet.
    Lucius Agatho Priscius,
    Nec maritus, nec amator,
      Nec necessarius;
  Neque moerens, neque gaudens,
        Neque flens;
           Hanc,
    Nec molem, nec pyramidem,
       Nec sepulchrum,
         Sed omnia,
    Scit et nescit, cui posuerit."

C. FORBES.

Saint Thomas of Lancaster.--The following passage in Fuller's Worthies (of Yorkshire) does
not seem to have been noticed by either of your correspondents who replied to MR. R. M. MILNES'
Query in Vol. i., p. 181.:

    "Thomas Plantagenet. Before I proceed, I must confess myself formerly
    at a great loss to understand a passage in an honourable author,
    speaking of the counterfeit reliques detected and destroyed at the
    Reformation: 'The Bell of Saint Guthlac, and the Felt of Saint Thomas
    of Lancaster, both remedies for the headache.' (Vice Lord Herbert's
    Life of Henry VIII., p. 431.) But I could recover no Saint Thomas
    (saving him of Canterbury) in any English Martyrology, till since, on
    enquiry, I find him to be this Thomas Plantagenet. He was Earl of
    Derby, Lancaster, Leicester, and (in the right of Alice his wife) of
    Lincoln. A popular person, and great enemy to the two Spencers, minions
    to King Edward II, who being hated as devils for their pride, no wonder
    if this Thomas was honored as a Saint and Martyr by the common sort.[6]
    Indeed he must be a very good chymist who can extract martyr out of
    malefactor; and our chronicles generally behold him put to death for
    treason against King Edward II. But let him pass for a saint in this
    shire, though never solemnly canonised, it being true of such local
    saints, what Servius Honoratus observeth of topical gods, 'ad alias
    regiones nunquam transibant,' they travelled not so far as to be
    honored in other countries. His beheading, alias his martyrdom,
    happened at Pomfret A.D. 1322."

It would appear from the foregoing extract that Thomas of Lancaster was never admitted into
the Romish calendar of saints; though his memory was locally revered, especially for his opposition
to the two Spencers, or Despensers, as they are called by Hume. This historian had no respect
for "the turbulent Lancaster;" but the quaint old Fuller seems to have thought well of him.

As a bell-man I am more interested in the virtues of the bell of Saint Guthlac, than in the
hat of Saint Thomas, and I take this opportunity of asking assistance from the readers of "NOTES
AND QUERIES" towards a collection of curious anecdotes and information about bells, which I
am endeavouring to make. Any contributions will be thankfully received by me.

ALFRED GATTY.

Ecclesfield.

[Footnote 6: "In sanctorum numerum retulit vulgus.--Camden's Brit. in Yorkshire. Amongst other
profits received by the abbey of Leicester, in 1348, from oblations at the church of St. Martin
in that town, occurs, pes Thomæ Lancastriæ respondebat, 6l. 10s."--History of Leicestershire,
vol. i. p. 591.]

Francis Moore (Vol. iii., p. 263.).--That such a personage really did exist there can be little
doubt. Bromley (in Engraved Portraits, &c.) gives 1657 as the date of his birth, and says that
there was a portrait of him by Drapentier ad vivum. Lysons mentions him as one of the {340}
remarkable men who, at different periods, resided at Lambeth, and says that his house was in
Calcott's Alley, High Street, then called Back Lane, where he seems to have enlightened his
generation in the threefold capacity of astrologer, physician, and schoolmaster.

J. C. B.

Lambeth.

"Tickhill, God help me" (Vol. i., p. 247.; Vol. ii., p. 452.).--Although I am full late with
my pendent, I am tempted to add the instance of "Kyme God Knows," well known to all explorers
of the Fens. The adjunct, "God knows," is supposed to be part of the following verse:

 "It's Kyme, God knows,
  Where no corn grows,
    And very little hay;
  And if there come a wet time,
    It weshes all away."

If I misquote, perhaps some Fen man will set me right.

As to the "Lincoln-heath where should 'un?" instanced by your correspondent H. C. ST. CROIX,
in the No. for April 27, 1850, it is quite unknown in this neighbourhood, and I believe must
belong to some other locale.

B.

Lincoln.

Meaning of Tye (Vol. iii., p. 263.).--On or contiguous to the South Downs, in Sussex, there
are several portions of land bearing this designation, as Berwick Tye, Alfriston Tye, Telscombe
Tye, &c. They are all contiguous to the villages from which they derive their names. These
lands were formerly held in common by the tenants of the respective manors, and I think the
origin of the expression may be traced to the tethering or tying-up of cows, horses, &c., for
the double purpose of preventing their straying, and of preserving the fences of the neighbouring
tenements. I offer this conjecture with some diffidence, because the word is very often found
in composition with proper names of places, as Lavortye, Brambletye, Holtye, Puxtye, Ollantigh.
The vulgar notion, that it means a space which originally measured ten acres, is, I think,
untenable.

M. A. LOWER.

Lewes.

Dutch Church in Norwich (Vol. iii., p. 209.).--Some interesting details connected with the
establishment of the Dutch Church in Norwich, as well as the first settlement of the Walloons
in that city, will be found in Blomefield's History of Norfolk, vol. iii. p. 282. et seq.,
edit. 1806.

J. Y.

The Dutch Church, Norwich.--Some account of this church may be seen in Burn's History of the
Foreign Refugees, 1846. It is to be regretted, however, that the registers and acts of vestry
are missing. The seal of the church has lately been discovered.

J. S. B.

Lost Manuscripts (Vol. iii., pp. 161. 261.)--In pursuance of MR. MACKENZIE'S suggestions respecting
the search for lost manuscripts, permit me to ask, if all hope must be considered as given
up of decyphering any more of those discovered at Herculaneum, or of resuming the excavations
there, that have been so long discontinued? Perhaps the improved chemical processes of recent
days might be found more successful in facilitating the unrolling of the MSS., than the means
resorted to so long ago by Sir H. Davy. Can any of your correspondents state whether anything
has been done lately with the Herculaneum MSS.?

Eustace says that--

    "As a very small part of Herculaneum has hitherto been explored, it is
    highly probable that if a general excavation were made, ten times the
    number of MSS. above mentioned (1800) might be discovered, and among
    them, perhaps, or very probably, some of the first works of antiquity,
    the loss of which has been so long lamented."--Classical Tour, vol.
    i. 4to., p.585.

J. M.

Oxford.

The Circulation of the Blood (Vol. iii., p.252.).--In a paraphrase on Ecclesiastes xii. 1-6.,
entitled, King Solomon's Portraiture of Old Age, by John Smith, M.D., London, 1676, 8vo., 1752,
12mo., the author attributes the discovery of the circulation of the blood to King Solomon.
Mede also finds the same anticipation of science in "the pitcher broken at the fountain." Who
was the first to suggest the transfusion of blood?

T. J.

Alliteration (Vol. iii., p. 165.)--Your correspondent H. A. B., in quoting the seventh stanza
from Phineas Fletcher's Purple Island, observes, that the second line,

 "A life that lives by love, and loves by light,"

is "noticeable" for its alliteration. But the best specimen that I have met with in English--after
having read much verse, and published a volume, which my partial friends call poetry--will
be found in Quarles' Divine Emblems, book ii. emblem ii. Beyond all question, Quarles was a
poet that needed not "apt alliteration's artful aid" to add to the vigour of his verse, or
lend liquidity to his lines. Quarles is often queer, quaint, and querulous, but never prolix,
prosey, or puling.

 "We sack, we ransack to the utmost sands
  Of native kingdoms, and of foreign lands:
  We travel sea and soil; we pry, we prowl,
  We progress, and we prog from pole to pole."

Verily, old Francis must have had a prophetic peep at the effects of free trade, and the growing
greatness of Great Britain, in the gathering of the Nations under a huge GLASS CASE in Hyde
Park, in the present year 1851!

C. G.

Edinburgh.

{341}

Vineyards in England (Vol. ii., p. 392.).--The Lincoln "Vine Closes" may as well be added to
the rest. They were given to the church here by Henry I. See the charter, entitled Carta Hen.
I. de Vinea sua Linc., in Dugdale (Caley's) vol. vi. p. 1272. Their site is a rather steep
slope, facing the south, and immediately east of the city. The southern aspect of our hill
was celebrated long ago by some poet, as quoted by H. Huntingdon:

 "Urbs in colle sita est, et collis vergit ad austrum".

N.B. One of the Abbey fields at Bullington, a few miles east of Lincoln, is known as the Hopyard.
The plant has never been cultivated in these parts within memory, or the range of the faintest
tradition, but the character of the soil is clayey, and perhaps not unsuitable. Were hopyards
often attached to monasteries? The house at Bullington was of the order of Sempringham.

B.

Lincoln.

Countess of Desmond (Vol. iii., p. 250.).--If your correspondents on this subject should be
wandering to the south-east of London, they may be interested in knowing that there are two
very striking portraits of this lady in Kent, one at Knowle, near Seven Oaks; the other, which
is the more remarkable picture of the two, at Bedgebury, near Cranbrook, the seat of Viscount
Beresford.

E. H. Y.

St. John's Bridge Fair (Vol. iii., pp. 88. 287.).--I cannot agree with the conjecture that
this was Peterborough Bridge Fair. On the confines of Gloucestershire and Berkshire, at the
distance of about 77 miles from London, near Lechlade, and on the road to Farringdon, is a
St. John's Bridge, near which was a priory or hospital. It is at this place that the Thames
first becomes navigable. (Leland's Itinerary, vol. ii. fo. 21, 22, 23; vol. iv. fo. 48; Bowles's
Post Chaise Companion, 1782, pl. 28; Lysons' Berkshire, vol. i. p. 193., and map of county
prefixed; Collectanea Topographica et Genealogica, vol. i. p. 320.; Parliamentary Gazetteer,
art. "Lechlade.") Whether there is or ever was a fair at this place is more than I can state;
but perhaps some of your correspondents dwelling in those parts can give information on this point.

C. H. COOPER.

Cambridge, April 14. 1851.

Paring the Nails unlucky on Sundays (Vol. ii., p. 511.; Vol. iii, p. 55.).--Compare Sir Thomas
Browne's Vulgar Errors, lib. v. cap. xxi. § x.

ACHE.

Errata in Braithwait's Latin Drinking-song (Vol. iii., p. 297.).--It is well for us that honest
Barnaby is not alive to visit upon us the scandalous "negligences and ignorances" with which
our transcript of his song abounds; and it is no excuse perhaps to say, that the errors almost
all of them exist in the MS. from whence the transcript was made. Sensitive as he has shown
himself "upon the errata's," he would not have accepted the apology from us which he makes
for himself. "Good reader, if this impression have errors in it, excuse it. The copy was obscure;
neither was the editor, by reason of his distance, and employments of higher consequence, made
acquainted with the publishing of it."

 "His Patavinus erravit prelis,
  Authorem suis lacerando telis."

The following corrections, which are necessary to the sense, have been pointed out, and have
no doubt been already silently made by many of our readers.

            Sic in MS.          forsan.

  Stanza 3. hoc te amoenum      hoc amoenum
            reparare              reperire

  Stanza 4. memento             momento
            gustabit            gustabis

  Stanza 5. solvet              solvit
            potis               potus

  Stanza 6. frigestis           frigescis

  Stanza 8. succedant           succedunt

             Omit the comma between Domum and
             feram, and disregard the erroneous
             punctuation generally.

There may be other errors; for, as it stands at present, the song is inferior to the other
known productions of the pleasant author of the ITINERARIUM. We can only hope that its publication,
in even this imperfect form, may lead to the discovery of a better text; and we must be content
if the lines of the author are applied to our blunders:

 "Delirans iste Sapiens Gottam,
  Reddit Coetum propter Cotem."
          ------
 "Quid si breves fiant longi?
  Si vocales sint dipthongi?
  Quid si graves sint acuti?
  Si accentus fiant muti?
  Quid si placidè, plenè, planè,
  FREGI FRONTEM PRISCIANI?

  Quid si sedem muto sede?
  Quid si carmen claudo pede?
  Quid si noctem sensi diem?
  Quid si veprem esse viam?
  Sat est, Verbum declinavi,
  Titubo--titubas--titubavi."

In the last line of the extract from "Phyllis and Flora," hinc is printed for huic; inpares,
in the preceding line, is the correct reading for impares. "Impar richtiger Inpar" (Scheller).

S. W. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The publication of The National Cyclopædia of Useful Knowledge has just been completed by the
issue of {342} the twelfth volume. We notice this useful condensation of The Penny Cyclopædia
principally, however, for a feature which we hope to see more widely extended, namely, that
of issuing it in a strong and handsome half-binding, at the moderate charge of one shilling
per volume extra. The practice of publishing books in a bound form (more especially such books
as are intended for very general circulation) is one which we have no doubt may be widely extended
with great satisfaction to purchasers. It has, generally speaking, been, up to the present
time, too closely confined to books of high price, adapted only to wealthy purchasers, whom
the words "bound by Hayday," or "morocco extra," with the necessary increase of price, charm,
rather than discourage.

There is perhaps no work to which, at the present moment,--when the World's Fair is about to
commence, and we are sure to be visited by hundreds, or rather thousands, of our Gallic friends,
with whom we shall be in daily and hourly conversation,--we can more appropriately call the
attention of our readers than to the second division (Partie Française-Anglaise) of M. Tarver's
Dictionnaire Phraséologique Royal, in which we can assure them they will find the readiest
solution of all those phraseological queries which may arise during their intercourse with
our lively neighbours. A very cursory examination of its pages will serve to convince the inquirer
of the great learning and patient industry of M. Tarver; and his interest in the work will
not be diminished by the reflection that the name of its accomplished author will be found
in the obituary of the present week.

When noticing, a few weeks since, one of Captain Knox's interesting volumes, we spoke of the
undying popularity of White's Selborne. A proof at once of this popularity, and a means of
increasing it, will be found in a new edition of this delightful book just issued as one of
the volumes of Bohn's Illustrated Library. It is entitled to its place in this series on account
of forty admirable woodcuts by which it is illustrated; and to a place on the bookshelves of
every Naturalist, for the sake of the additional notes of Sir W. Jardine, and its present editor,
Mr. Jesse.

Messrs. Puttick and Simpson (191. Piccadilly) will sell on Tuesday and Wednesday next an exceedingly
choice Collection of Autograph Letters, comprising numerous Letters of extraordinary rarity,
selected principally from Upcott's Collection. We cannot attempt to particularise the many
interesting lots which are to be found in the present collection, but recommend the Catalogue
to attention for the satisfactory manner in which the different documents are arranged and
described.

CATALOGUES RECEIVED.--B. Quaritch's (16. Castle Street, Leicester Square) Cheap Book Circular
(No. XXVIII.) of Books in all Languages; W. Pedder's (18. Holywell Street) Catalogue Part II.
for 1851, of Books Ancient and Modern; R. Saywell's (138. High Holborn) Select Catalogue Part
XXI. of Books in Theology, Classics, and General Literature.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE

BREVARIUM ROMANUM. Pars Verna. Antverpiae. Ex Typ. Plantinianæ. 1700 or 1714. By GEORGE BISHOPE.
Quarto, 1661. Wanted from page 150 to the end.

J. S. S. (Leicester). THE CHAUCER MONUMENT. It will require about 100l. to make a complete
restoration. Not one-half that amount has yet been subscribed.

X. Y. Z. The custom of "Swearing on the Horns at Highgate" is very ably treated by Hone, Every-Day
Book, vol. ii. p. 79 et seq. It probably arose from the graziers who put up at the Gate-house
on their way to Smithfield, and were accustomed, as a means of keeping strangers out of their
company, to bring an ox to the door as a test: those who did not like to be sworn of their
fraternity, and kiss its horns, not being deemed fit members of their society.

W. R. M. Will this correspondent favour us with another copy of his Queries, which were received
and intended for insertion, but have apparently been omitted by some accident?

A. W. H. Our correspondent will find that his Query had been anticipated in Vol. i., p. 336.
Its appearance then brought it a mass of Replies, mostly of a very unsatisfactory kind. We
delayed repeating the Query until we could find leisure to condense those replies, so as to
prevent our correspondents furnishing us with information already in our possession. We hope
to do this next week.

SING. Bryan Waller Procter, Esq., one of the Commissioners of Lunacy.

REPLIES RECEIVED.--Nettle in--San Graal--Duchess of Buckingham--Newburgh Hamilton--Ex Pede
Herculeum--Knebsend--Derivation of Yankee--Passage in Virgil--Bacon and Fagan--Solid-hoofed
Pigs--Under the Rose--Stick at Nothing--Ejusdem Farinæ--Meaning of Rack--Meaning of Tye--The
Tanthony--Dog's Head in the Pot--Baron Munchausen--Shakspeare's Seamanship--Criston--Bigod
de Loges--God's Acre--Joseph Nicolson--Britt.

       *       *       *       *       *

LITERARY AGENCY.--MR. F. G. TOMLINS (Secretary to the Shakspeare Society, Author of a Brief
View of the English Drama; a Variorum History of England; Garcia, a Tragedy; the Topic, the
Self Educator, &c. &c.) is desirous to make it known that a Twenty Years' experience with the
Press and Literature, as Author and Publisher, enables him to give advice and information to
Authors, Publishers, and Persons wishing to communicate with the Public, either as to the Editing,
Advertising, or Authorship of Books, Pamphlets, or Literary productions of any kind. Opinions
obtained on Manuscripts previous to publication, and Works edited, written, or supervised for
the Press by acknowledged writers in their various departments.

    OFFICE, 19. SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND;

where works of reference for Literary Purposes may be obtained or referred to.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS.--JUST PUBLISHED, A CATALOGUE of Three Thousand Volumes of RARE and CURIOUS BOOKS, containing
Works on America, the Occult Sciences, Books of Prints, Fine Arts, Free-Masonry, Jest-Books
and Drolleries, Hawking, Language, Popery, Proverbs, Facetiæ and Miscellaneous Literature,--may
be had on application, or by forwarding four penny stamps to G. BUMSTEAD, 205. High Holborn.
The Collection includes an unusually complete series of English Royal Autographs, many being
important Letters, from the time of Henry VII.; also Letters of Contemporary Foreign Sovereigns,
with numerous rare and interesting Letters in other Classes. The whole in the finest preservation.
Catalogues will be sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

This day is published,

BOHN'S CLASSICAL CATALOGUE, comprising all the principal editions of the Greek and Latin Classics.
Translations and Commentaries, with prices annexed; royal 8vo. half morocco, price 2s. 6d.--Allowed
to Purchasers.

HENRY G. BOHN, York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON PICTORIALLY and HISTORICALLY DESCRIBED. Edited by CHARLES KNIGHT. 6 vols. in 3, royal
8vo. with upwards of one thousand engravings on wood, cloth gilt, 1l. 16s.

HENRY G. BOHN, York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bohn's Scientific Library for May.

HUMBOLDT'S COSMOS; or Sketch of a Physical Description of the Universe. Translated by E. C.
OTTE. Vol. 3, with an Index.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bohn's Classical Library for May.

PLATO'S WORKS, translated by GEO. BURGESS, M.A. Vol. 4, containing Philebus, Charmides, Laches,
The Two Alcibiades, and Ten other Dialogues. Price 5s.

HENRY G. BOHN, York Street, Covent Garden.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bohn's Standard Library for May.

NEANDER'S FIRST PLANTING OF CHRISTIANITY. Translated by RYLAND. Post 8vo.

WILLIAM J. THOMS, Secretary.

The following are the Publications of the Society for the year 1850-1.

I. A SELECTION FROM THE WILLS Preserved in the Will Office at Bury St. Edmund's. Edited by
SAMUEL TYMMS, Esq.

II. WALTER MAPES "DE NUGIS CURIALIUM." A Treatise on the Political Affairs of his Time, written
in 1181. Edited by THOMAS WRIGHT, Esq., M.A.

III. SIR RICHARD GUYLFORDE'S PILGRIMAGE TO THE HOLY LAND, A. D. 1506. Edited from a copy believed
to be unique from the Press of Richard Pynson, by SIR HENRY ELLIS, K.H., Sec.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO BOOK BUYERS.--No. XIV. of T. D. THOMSON'S CATALOGUE of MISCELLANEOUS SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
marked at very low Prices, is just published, and may be had Gratis and Postage Free.

13. Upper King Street, Russell Square.

       *       *       *       *       *

{344}

BOOKS RECENTLY PUBLISHED

BY JOHN HENRY PARKER,

OXFORD; and 377. STRAND, LONDON.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAROCHIAL WORK. By the Rev. E. MONRO, M.A., Incumbent of Harrow Weald, Stanmore. A Second Edition
of this valuable Work is nearly ready, and will, it is expected, be published in April.

       *       *       *       *       *

SERMONS CHIEFLY ON THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MINISTERIAL OFFICE. By the Rev. E. MONRO. 8vo. 7s.

Intended as a Companion to the above.

       *       *       *       *       *

POETÆ SCENICI GRÆCI. Æschyli, Sophoclis, Euripidis, et Aristophanis Fabulæ superstites et perditarum
fragmenta. Editio secunda, ex nova recognitione GUIL. DINDORFII. Royal 8vo. cloth, 1l. 1s.;
or bound by Hayday in calf extra for school prizes, 1l. 10s.

       *       *       *       *       *

DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE of the Middle Ages, with numerous Engravings from existing Remains, and
Historical Illustrations from contemporary Manuscripts. By T. HUDSON TURNER, Esq. From the
Conquest to the 13th Century. 1 Vol. 8vo. In a few days.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. PUSEY'S DEFENCE OF HIS OWN PRINCIPLES: A Letter to the Right Hon. and Right Rev. the Lord
Bishop of London in Explanation of some Statements contained in a Letter by the Rev. W. Dodsworth.
Fifth and Cheaper Edition. 18mo. pp. 196., 1s., or bound in cloth, 1s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. PUSEY'S REPLY TO SOME REMARKS OF MR. DODSWORTH'S ON THE ABOVE LETTER, 8vo. 1s. Foolscap
8vo. 10s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

HYMNI ECCLESIÆ e BREVIARIIS quibusdam et MISSALIBUS GALLICANIS, GERMANICIS, HISPANIS desumpti.
Collegit et recensuit JOANNES M. NEALE, A.M., Collegii Sackvillensis custos. 18mo. 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE.

       *       *       *       *       *

I.

THE HISTORY OF EUROPE, from the Commencement of the French Revolution to the Battle of Waterloo.
By ARCHIBALD ALISON, LL.D. Seventh Edition, in 20 Vols. Crown Octavo, with a Copious INDEX,
in cloth, price 6l.

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

A LIBRARY EDITION, handsomely printed on superfine paper, in Demy Octavo, to range with the
Standard Editions of the English Historians, in 14 Vols. including a Copious INDEX, and embellished
with Portraits. Price 10l. 10s.

A limited number are printed on thick paper, in Royal Octavo, with Proof Impressions of the
Portraits, price 21l.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

ATLAS TO THE HISTORY OF EUROPE, Comprising 109 Maps and Plans of Countries, Sieges, and Battles,
illustrative of ALISON'S HISTORY OF EUROPE and of other Contemporary Histories; constructed
and engraved by A. KEITH JOHNSTON, F.R.S.E., Author of the "Physical Atlas," and of the "National
Atlas." A New Edition.

In CROWN QUARTO, uniform with the SEVENTH EDITION of Alison's History, bound in cloth, 2l.
12s. 6d. In DEMY QUARTO, to range with the "LIBRARY EDITION" and Early Editions of Alison's
History in Demy Octavo, bound in cloth, 3l. 3s. In ROYAL QUARTO, to accompany the ROYAL OCTAVO
"LIBRARY EDITION" of Alison's History, 4l. 4s.

       *       *       *       *       *

IV.

EPITOME OF ALISON'S EUROPE. For the Use of Schools and Young Persons. In One Volume, Post Octavo,
price 7s. 6d. bound in cloth. ATLAS to the above, 7s.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the same Author.

I.

ESSAYS, POLITICAL, HISTORICAL, and MISCELLANEOUS. In Three Vols. Demy Octavo, uniform with
the "Library Edition" of Alison's Europe. Price 2l. 5s.

       *       *       *       *       *

II.

MILITARY LIFE of JOHN, DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH. In Octavo, with Maps and Plans of Battles. Price 18s.

       *       *       *       *       *

III.

THE PRINCIPLES OF POPULATION, and their Connection with Human Happiness. Two Vols. Octavo, 30s.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS, Edinburgh and London. Sold by all Booksellers. 1851.

       *       *       *       *       *

Corrections made to printed original.

page 336, "From the Common Gaol in Burkdou" - original reads 'Burkdon', this corrected by the
errata in issue 80 which adds that Burkdou is Bourdeaux.

page 341, "Authorem suis lacerando telis." - original reads 'laurando', this corrected by the
errata in issue 80.

