In all my relations to the suffering world one thing guides and determines me--pity. When I
give myself up to it unconditionally, all my personal suffering ceases.

I have at last got my Erard. It stands in the large echoing hall which serves me as a study.
There "Tristan" is to be finished this winter. The first act, dearest friend, is quite complete;
ask the Hartels to give you the proof-sheets of the full score, which is already engraved.
In the completion of the second act, which I have only slightly sketched, I am continually
interrupted by visits. I have just begun working at it again; it will be very beautiful, and
is to be finished and printed by the end of this year at the latest. By March the last act
will follow, and if all goes well I shall witness the first performance about Easter. You are
aware that, through Eduard Devrient's intercession, the Grand Duke of Baden has acquired a
right in this work. If he can arrange to get me permission to go to Carlsruhe for the performance,
it will take place there. But of this hope also I do not make a vital question; I can wait.

Venice continues to be most sympathetic to me; my choice was guided by instinct, and has turned
out well. This kind of retirement is most pleasant to me. I see just enough to occupy my fancy
agreeably; nothing disturbs me. That, looking upon this peaceful scene, I also was allowed
to look upon you, and that you appeared to me in so beautiful and blissful a light as you did
in your last letter, has crowned my happiness.

Be thanked my dear, noble, unique friend! Shall I say more? You know all that these words imply.

Greet the Princess and the good Child; they are to be annoyed by nothing in the world, and
they are to love me as much as they can.

I hope that these lines will affect you as sympathetically as yours have made me happy.

Farewell, and be always assured of my responsive love.

Your

RICHARD W.

It would be a good omen if this letter were to reach you on your birthday.

272.

VENICE, October 23rd, 1858.

After I had settled with R. on the 21st that we were to congratulate you jointly on your birthday,
he came to me on the 22nd and told me that he had just sent you a telegram. By way of revenge
I ordered a dinner with oysters and champagne in the Square of St. Mark, to which a military
band played the overture of "Rienzi" most excellently. We drank your health and clinked our
glasses, and had a most pleasant evening.

Of this I send you documentary evidence by this letter.

Your

R. W.

273.

VENICE, October 26th, 1858.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I have just had a letter from Munich telling me that they have given up "Rienzi" owing to religious
scruples. I want money, much money, in order to get honestly through my difficult position,
and am looking out everywhere for a little business. I have just offered my "Lohengrin" to
the Cassel management. If you can help me there, do so.

I should not like myself to write to Coburg, where I have been neglected in a surprising manner.
Do you know of a channel through means of which you could bring it about that they should buy
"Lohengrin" and the "Dutchman" as well? Think of this and help me in the old way.

A thousand greetings from your

R. W.

274.

DEAREST RICHARD,

R.'s telegram of October 21st was received with joyful acclamation, and your letter, which
arrived on the same evening, was the most welcome birthday present on account of the calm,
conciliatory mood which I felt in it. May you soon resume your work joyfully! I hope you are
getting on with "Tristan", of which as yet I do not know a single note. In accordance with
your last letter, I have asked the Hartels to lend me the score for a few days when the engraver
does not want it any longer.

Your hints as to the performances of "Lohengrin", "The Flying Dutchman", and "Rienzi" in Cassel,
Gotha, and other cities will not be neglected, and I need not assure you again that I shall
do all in my power. First of all you will receive a letter concerning "Rienzi" from my chief
and friend Dingelstedt. The opera is to be given here in January. Be kind enough to reply to
Dingelstedt's letter with some POLITENESS, and do not be annoyed at my making this remark.
I wish very much to incline Dingelstedt a little more favourably towards the performance of
your works and to co-operate with him in perfect sympathy. That co-operation is of importance
to me not only as regards "Tristan", which will meet with no difficulty, and, as I hope and
longingly wish, will open your return to Germany, but chiefly with a view to the performance
of the "Nibelungen," which is our ultimate goal. The honorarium of 25 louis d'or which our
theatrical exchequer can offer you is very small, but I advise you to accept it, and take it
upon myself to get you a small douceur from the Grand Duke's privy purse later on.

I should like to have Tichatschek for the first two performances of "Rienzi", although that
would increase the expense considerably. But I have a great liking for him, and wish to get
him some distinction from the Grand Duke on that occasion.

Last Sunday we gave "Komala" by Sobolewski. I do not know whether you have seen a small pamphlet
"Opera, not Drama," which he published last year as an introduction to his opera. The following
beautiful comparison occurs in it: "The words are the hard, transparent pieces of incense,
the melody is the beautiful scent which emerges from the thick clouds of smoke, when the incense
has been lit." In many other things I cannot agree with him, especially not as regards the
marks of punctuation, by means of which he tries to distinguish himself from you, when at the
end of the pamphlet he exclaims: "Wagner says, OPERA NOT,--DRAMA; I say OPERA, NOT DRAMA."
His "Komala" is better than his comma, and his practice much better than his theory. There
is much in it that would please you, and has undoubtedly been originated by "Lohengrin." Sobolewski
wrote "Komala" at first in three acts, and had it done in that form at Bremen. Afterwards,
in honour of operatic theory, and probably persuaded by the critics who thirst for contrasts
and operatic tunes, he added two acts more, in which he introduced vocal pieces de salon, reminding
one of the Queen in the "Huguenots", and the inevitable drinking chorus. By his desire I preserved
the five acts at the first performance, but at the second I omitted the two additional ones
without any consideration, or rather, for very good considerations, and shall even take the
liberty of altering his finale, which has been fashioned after your finale of the second act
of "Tannhauser" ("nach Rom"), and after the last act of "Iphigenia in Aulis." In that manner
the work will appear in its only true form, and may keep its place as a fine musical cloud-and-mist
picture in perfect accord with Ossian's poem. For your private benefit I send you a few motives
from "Komala", which I copied for you.

About the middle of November we shall perform here a comic opera, "The Barber of Baghdad,"
founded on a tale from the "Arabian Nights," words and music by Cornelius. The music is full
of wit and humour, and moves with remarkable self-possession in the aristrocratic region of
art. I expect a very good result. "Rienzi" will be taken in hand immediately afterwards.

Excuse me for having delayed writing to you so long. I am up to the ears in all manner of business
and correspondence, and have not had a free hour since my return. Please do not retaliate,
and let me have good news of you soon.

Your

F. LISZT.

November 5th, 1858.

Kindly give the enclosed few lines to Ritter. The additions to the "Dante" symphony and to
the Gran Mass will be ready before Christmas, and I shall send you both together.

275.

VENICE, November 21st, 1858.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

Many thanks for your kind letter; I had nothing particular to tell you, or would have replied
to you sooner. In addition to this I was ill during the whole first half of November, which
was more than I had bargained for, especially as it interrupted my work in the most unpleasant
manner. Now I am well again and all will be right. I am looking forward to the Mass and "Dante"
which you promise to send to me. Mind you keep your word. I have asked the Hartels to send
you proof sheets of the first act of "Tristan." Perhaps you have received them by this time.
The Hartels treat me with much forbearance. At first when I thought that the score would be
finished this autumn, I prodded them on terribly. Since then I have left them miserably in
the lurch. Before the end of December I cannot think of sending them the second act. I cannot
help this, because I must wait for the most favourable mood to go on with the work. The "Nibelungen"
question has also been mooted again by us. I shall have these things engraved now, and shall
leave the discussion of the honorarium till after the performance. In this matter a very droll
intermezzo has been played, or rather it has not been played out yet, because its conclusion
will probably take place in a few days. I shall relate this adventure to you when it is finished.

My affairs are in a somewhat miserable condition. "Rienzi" is not getting on in spite of the
continued success of the Dresden revival. The first disappointment came from Munich where I
had expected to get an honorarium of fifty louis d'or. They wrote to me that the reading committee
objected to the subject on RELIGIOUS grounds. I pity that dear religion! It is partly your
fault that it is put to such uses now; why do you write beautiful Masses for the parsons? From
Hanover also I expected an immediate remittance, and could not understand the delay, when I
heard that Niemann, after having heard Tichatschek in "Rienzi", did not feel competent to sustain
the part with equal voice-power. Therefore it was given up. Breslau alone is sufficiently bold,
and will venture upon it. I wish I could find some one who would do justice to the real character
of the part, in which case he need not be afraid of singing it even before Tichatschek. I have
hinted so much to Niemann. I am thus, once more, reduced to my old capital, "Tannhauser" and
"Lohengrin", and they are no longer sufficient for my present difficult position.

D. wrote to me five and a half lines, inquiring as to my terms. You probably know my reply.
I wish the inhuman creature had sent me the money at once. Good Lord, what Jacks-in-office
you all are! None of you can put himself in the place of a poor devil like me who looks upon
every source of income as a lucky draw in a lottery. Please, tread gently upon his toe.

K. R. left me today, probably for a few weeks, in order to congratulate his mother on her birthday
at Dresden. If he finds it possible he will pay you a visit at Weimar.

W. remains with me in his place; he arrived from Vienna with a Russian family a month ago,
in order to spend the winter here. Fortunately, he keeps quiet and does not molest me, for
being by myself is the boon which I enjoy, and watch over with painful care. In the Square
I am literally run after by foreign princes; one of them, D., who boasts of knowing you personally,
I was unable to avoid. He lives where I have my dinner and, occasionally, waylays me. He is
an odd and apparently good- natured person. Today he dropped down upon me with much enthusiasm
between the soup and the cutlets, in order to tell me that he had heard one of your symphonic
poems beautifully played on the piano, and by whom? By a Venetian music-teacher, who has been
made an enthusiast for German music by you and me. This amused me very much. D. also has been
gained for your cause. What more can you desire? And all this happened in the Square of St.
Mark at dinner, the weather being infamously cold.

Be of good cheer then, and may God bless you. Continue to love me. Write to me soon, and greet
Altenburg a thousand times for

Your

R. W.

276.

VENICE, November 26th, 1858.

I enclose you a beautiful autograph.

I cannot tell you how comic it appears to me that I have to transact Weimar business with F.
D. I have a good mind to tell HIM that he had better leave my opera alone. Weimar has lost
all its charm for me since I have to meet so formal a person before I can get at you and the
Grand Duke. You are a very tedious set of people.

You told me two years ago that you were in possession of a score of "Rienzi" which I had left
there on my flight. If that is so, I should be glad if you would not attach much importance
to its possession. My original score is always at your disposal in case, as I scarcely believe,
you should care much about this opus. I have only a very few copies left. At the time I had
no more than twenty-five copies made, more than half of which I have squandered away. If it
MUST be, get a copy from Fischer in Dresden, and submit it reverentially in my name to the
great Dingelstedt. Have you had your score altered by Fischer? In the third act there is a
long cut and a change necessitated by it which I made for Hamburg.

Good Lord! it is miserable that one has to take all this trouble for a little money. I am once
more confined to my room, and cannot even get up from my chair; a neglected abscess in my leg
causes me terrible pain; sometimes in the middle of my music I call out loudly, which has a
very fine effect.

Have the Hartels sent you the first act of "Tristan?" You will have copies of the poem before long.

Farewell for today. I have to indulge in a few shrieks, which in a letter would not sound well.

A thousand greetings--oh!

From your

R. W. (oh!!)

Have I really to wait for the wretched twenty-five louis d'or-- oh!!--till after the PERFORMANCE?
Lord only knows when that will take place--oh!!

277.

VENICE, December 5th, 1858.

I made haste, dearest friend, to write to D. in accordance with your summons sent to me through
our Princess.

I wrote to him that doubts had arisen in me whether I still desired the performance of "Rienzi"
at Weimar, and I ask you to agree with me and give up the plan. If anything could have induced
me to push my "Rienzi" at this time of day it would, as you will understand, have been the
desire of deriving a good income from it, such as would have been welcome in my poor and uncertain
condition. In itself I look upon this revival as an anachronism which, moreover, would be quite
premature. After the recent great success of the opera at Dresden I was in hopes that the rapid
sale of this opus would supply me with sufficient means for my present wants. That hope, however,
has been deceived in the most important points, especially with regard to Munich and Hanover,
as I recently informed you. By offering this opera broadcast I had to humiliate my pride very
much, and I have now become very sensitive as to this matter. At Weimar, too, the opera is,
properly considered, an intruder, and is evidently being looked upon as such. You enlightened
me upon this point last winter, when you explained to me the reason for its delay. But I do
not desire that you should force this juvenile production upon any one in Weimar. The reasons
for keeping on good terms on such an occasion with this person or that person do not exist
for me, and my sincere wish is, that they should not exist for you either. In this matter we
two should agree. Whether or not I perform my "Nibelungen" at some future time is at bottom
a matter of indifference to me. I shall complete it in any case, for my enthusiasm and strength
for such works I do not derive from any hopes, for the realisation of which I should require
certain people. All that the world and my "admirers" and "worshippers" of whom I have to hear
so much can do for me, is to look upon my whole situation in a serious and sympathetic light,
and to do all in their power to ease my heavy cares and to preserve to me the pleasure and
leisure which I require for my work. Beyond this I want nothing. But to attain it, very different
efforts are necessary from those which have hitherto come to my knowledge.

Enough of this. I can do without the Weimar honorarium and douceur for "Rienzi," which, in
any case, would come too late to be of service to me. By next Easter, till which time I should
have to wait, I shall be able to help myself in other ways; in the meantime it will be a hard
struggle, but I shall manage somehow.

Even the Weimar receipts would, unfortunately, not have enabled me to repay your 1,000 francs.

To sum up: you will, undoubtedly, save yourself much trouble and unpleasantness by giving up
"Rienzi." If you have Tichatschek in the spring let him sing Lohengrin; that will give you
much more pleasure.

Imagine that for a week and a half I have not been able to move from my chair. This illness
was just what was required to finish me up. I had just resumed my work a little, after a gastric
and nervous indisposition, when I was obliged to give in again. However, I am getting better,
and hope to be able to walk and work again next week.

Farewell, and be pressed to my heart a thousand times.

Your

R. W.

278.

DEAREST RICHARD,

Hartel has sent me a divine Christmas present. All the children in the world cannot be so delighted
with their trees and the golden apples and splendid gifts suspended thereon as I, in my own
person, am with your unique "Tristan." Away with all the cares and tribulations of every-day
existence! Here one can weep and glow again. What blissful charm, what undivined wealth of
beauty in this fiery love-potion! What must you have felt while you created and formed this
wondrous work? What can I tell you about it beyond saying that I feel with you in my heart
of hearts!

However, in my capacity of practical friend, I must speak to you of commonplace things. Your
negative answer to D., much as it grieved me in many respects, came at the RIGHT MOMENT. I
proposed, as you know, "Rienzi" for performance eighteen months ago, and your small opinion
of my small influence on our affairs is, unfortunately, too correct. Without troubling you
with the details of local matters, I only tell you that I quite approve of your conduct, reserving
to myself, however, the right of asking for your "Rienzi" if a favourable moment for the performance
of this opera, long desired by me, should arrive. In the first instance, the "Prophet" and
Auber's "Bal Masque" are to be given, and I, for my part, have declared that I shall not enter
the orchestra for some time to come. By next spring I hope your personal affairs will have
taken a more favourable turn, to which I may, perhaps, be able to contribute something. When
"Tristan" is completed, and you have sent the dedication copy to the Grand Duchess of Baden,
you must write to me at length as to what remains to be done.

With K. R., who delighted me with a visit of several days, I discussed a good many things which
he will shortly communicate to you. I flatter myself that he has taken a good impression away
with him, and that some old friendly associations will be even more firmly established in years
to come. His musical gift appears very considerable to me, and I have advised him to concentrate
himself on an operatic subject, which he had better arrange for himself. You should encourage
him in this; by your advice and influence he will no doubt achieve something excellent, and
a musico-dramatic work will help him to proper recognition in the quickest and best way.

I wanted to send you the "Dante" symphony for the new year, but the corrections have taken
me longer than I expected, and the publication will not take place before January. I shall
send you a respectable parcel, for the Gran Mass will also be included in it. I wish I could
bring you these things personally, stay with you, accompany you in "Tristan." Let us hope that
the new year will put an end to our separation, and chain us to each other in the body, as
we are already in spirit and heart.

Your

F. L.

December 26th, 1858.

You may expect a dedication from the composer of the opera D. v. S.; accept it in a friendly
spirit, although you will find yourself in the strange company of Meyerbeer. The composer is
well inclined towards you, of which I recently had a very convincing proof. Do not mention
this until the dedication actually reaches you. Later on you will probably have to write a
few lines in reply.

279.

Cordial thanks for your New Year's greeting, dearest Richard. I expect to see the explanation
of the last words of your telegram in your next letter, for I have no knowledge of the event
which you describe as "wonderfully miserable." In certain quarters, however, the MISERABLE
appears no longer WONDERFUL to me. I hope the new year will bring some things to a better issue,
and have many good things in store for you. Enclosed I send you this week's repertoire of the
Weymar theatre, in which you will see the announcement of "Lohengrin" for next Sunday. For
the first time I shall not conduct this work to which I am attached with my whole soul. "Tannhauser"
also I have left to my colleague, and when I come to explain to you the circumstances which
determine me to this negative attitude, I feel sure that you will see in it no neglect of my
artistic conviction, much less of my duty as a friend to you.

If your operas have elsewhere been given for the purpose of getting money, the responsibility
lies with those concerned; but here, where these works have been guarded and watched with so
much love, I cannot make myself an accomplice of the brutal mercantile spirit in which they
are now regarded, especially not after we two have been treated with such total want of consideration
in this "Rienzi" affair, which has been allowed to drag on for more than eighteen months.

As I said in my last letter, I fully approve of your resolution not to sell "Rienzi" to the
management here. If you should be applied to by letter I ADVISE YOU TO MAKE NO CONCESSION.
If the time for relenting should come I shall send you word; you know how deeply your interests
concern me.

In the first instance, the "Prophet," "Bal Masque," "Don Pasquale," and "Antigone", have to
be studied and performed, which will leave no time or goodwill for "Rienzi." As regards goodwill,
C. R. can relate to you the circumstances of the first performance of Cornelius's opera, when
my passive attitude during this season will be explained to you. Really I often require the
patience beseeming a confrater of the Franciscan order to bear so many intolerable things.

Your

F. L.

January 1st, 1859.

280.

VENICE, January 2nd, 1859.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

The time has come when I must once more speak with calmness and in a decisive manner of the
subject which has been so rich a source of my life's troubles, and which last New Year's Eve
caused the storm I let loose upon you, no doubt to your sorrow. Such storms must not occur
again, that I feel deeply. Even this last attack was caused only by a moment of the most violent
excitement. I must, in fact, undergo an absolute change in order to gain a position more worthy
of myself. It is for this reason that I apply to you, for the last time, and perhaps it would
be better if I did not trouble you in the matter, even for this last time. But if I omitted
to do so at the moment when I am about to take a decisive step, I might perhaps have to reproach
myself with having neglected my nearest, most helpful, and most influential friend in an unaccountable
manner.

Let me come to the point.

After living in exile for ten years, my amnesty has become of less importance to me than the
guarantee of an existence free from care and secure from discomfort for the rest of my life.
Do not be surprised. The return to Germany is of relative value to me. The only positive gain
would be my seeing you often and living together with you. The possible performances of my
operas under my direction, would certainly bring me less enjoyment than exertion, care, trouble,
and annoyance. I never had much pleasure in the performance of one of my operas, and shall
have much less in future. My ideal demands have increased, compared with former times, and
my sensitiveness has become much more acute during the last ten years while I lived in absolute
separation from artistic public life. I fear that even you do not quite understand me in this
respect, and you should believe my word all the more implicitly. Your nature and position in
life and in the world are so entirely different from mine that you can scarcely realise my
sensitiveness in this respect from your own consciousness.

Believe me implicitly when I tell you that the only reason for my continuing to live is the
irresistible impulse of creating a number of works of art which have their vital force in me.
I recognise beyond all doubt that this act of creating and completing alone satisfies me and
fills me with a desire of life, which otherwise I should not understand. I can, on the other
hand, do quite well without any chance of a performance. I see clearly that before the completion
of "Tristan" my amnesty would absolutely place me in an awkward position; no expectation, not
even that of producing "Lohengrin", could induce me to leave my present place of abode before
I had finished my work. From this you may guess at other things. Any offer of a secured and
comfortable existence would be of no value to me if it were coupled with the condition of my
accepting the amnesty, and of doing certain services made possible thereby. I cannot and shall
not accept an appointment or anything resembling it. What I demand, on the other hand, is the
settlement upon me of an honourable and large pension, solely for the purpose of creating my
works of art undisturbed and without regard for external success.

Being without property or subvention of any kind, I have to rely for my income upon my operas.
He who has real knowledge of the nature of my works, and who feels and esteems their peculiar
and differentiating qualities, must see that I, in my position towards such an institution
as our theatre, ought to be entirely relieved from the necessity of making commercial articles
of my works. Any just-minded man must perceive that it would be quite unworthy of me to relinquish
my freedom by giving my operas to managers without stipulating for their artistic interest,
without choice, without preference for any particular theatre, or even by being compelled to
offer them to such managers. This necessity has already filled me with much painful bitterness,
and the worst of it is that even if I suppress my sense of honour to that extent, the receipts
accruing to me are of such a nature that they place me, pecuniarily speaking, in a painful
and alarming position. At times those receipts come in plentifully and unexpectedly, and in
consequence bring with them all of a sudden perfect security and a certain tempting plenty.
At other times they fall off for a long period and again quite unexpectedly; and this falling
off, just because it could not be foreseen, is followed by want, care, and tribulation. If
this is to be mended I must be relieved from the necessity of counting upon these receipts,
and be placed in a position which will enable me to look upon them as an accidental increase
of resources, which I can employ in adding certain comforts to my existence, and which I am
able to dispense with without interfering with my sufficient and settled income, as soon as
I find it desirable to withhold my operas from those theatres, the strength or the direction
of which does not enable me to credit them with honest zeal for my work. In this manner, and
by the position towards our abominable theatrical institutions thus attained, I should be protected
by my contemporaries, and enabled to continue my creations in accordance with my earnest desire
and with the peculiarity of my artistic nature. An ample and fully secured pension can alone
do this for me, and only a combination of several German princes whom I have inspired with
sympathy can accomplish the desired object.

On such a combination I should have to insist, for the reason, more especially, that this pension,
if it is to fulfil its object and to satisfy my somewhat refined and not altogether ordinary
wants, must amount to at least 2,000 or 3,000 thalers. I do not blush in naming such a sum.
My experience of what I want in accordance with my nature, and, perhaps I should add, the nature
of my works, teaches me that I cannot well do with less; and on the other hand, it is well
known that artists like Mendelssohn (although he was rich), have received equally large honorary
salaries from one single quarter.

I ask you therefore, definitely and finally, whether you will take the initiative in this matter?
At the same time I would draw your attention to the fact that, after mature consideration,
I must abide by the character of my demand. An appointment at Weimar, although it might leave
me at perfect liberty and even be equal to yours, I could not accept, because the salary would
not be sufficient for my purpose. It would not help me radically, and would therefore imply
all the dangers of a palliative measure. Once more, I require an absolute settlement of my
external circumstances, which will provide for and exercise a decided influence on my future
artistic creativeness. I shall be forty- six next birthday, and therefore speak of about ten
years at the utmost.

If you have reasons for not entering into my request, or for declining to concern yourself
with it personally, let me know plainly and definitely. I could explain those reasons from
your peculiar position, and they would not in the least interfere with our friendship. Let
me know in that case whether you advise me to apply MYSELF to the Grand Duke of Weimar, in
order to induce him to place himself at the head of the aforesaid combination of princes. If
you do not think this advisable, I am determined to ask D. whether he will intercede for me
with another prince. If he also refuses, my last resource will be to apply to that prince myself.
On the success of this step will depend my further relations to Germany, as to which in such
circumstances I have quite made up my mind.

My request, whether it be addressed to you, or D., or one of the princes, will be accompanied
by a clear and convincing exposition of my circumstances, my position towards the artistic
world, and my individual qualities, and wants. At the same time I shall state precisely what
I promise to do in return for such a pension. In the first instance, and whether my return
to Germany will be granted or not, I shall undertake to continue the creation of new works.
All my works, present and future, will be given to the various court theatres gratis. Finally,
as soon as I am allowed to return to Germany I will, by special desire, undertake to superintend
in person the study and production of my operas, and, if it should be wished, of other works,
the representation of which would be for the benefit and honour of art.

This letter, dear Franz, is the first I have written in this fateful new year 1859. It is addressed
to you, and deals with a subject which will be of decisive influence on my future life. May
Heaven and our friendship reward it with success!

Answer me soon definitely and decisively, for I repeat that I do not want my request to be
in any way connected with the amnesty. A thousand cordial greetings to the ladies, to whom
I shall soon write a pleasant letter.

Your

R. W.

281.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Have you NOTHING AT ALL to say to me? What is to become of me, if EVERY ONE ignores me?

Your

R.

VENICE.

282.

MY DEAR FRANZ,

On reading my letter again, you will probably have discovered what was the meaning of my jocular
complaint--"You answer me much too pathetically and seriously." You must have seen by the exact
terms of my letter, somewhat loosely worded though it was, that by your answer I meant the
manner in which you speak of my conduct towards D. with regard to "Rienzi." As this part of
my letter has remained obscure to you, I add the following words of explanation. My letter
about the withdrawal of "Rienzi" was written with a view to being shown, because I had referred
D. to you. I thought, however, you would see that I was annoyed by the difficulties he made
about the honorarium, and by the remote date for which payment was promised. I was in hopes
that my letter discussing the withdrawal of the opera would help me quickly to the honorarium,
and perhaps increase the amount a little. I had unfortunately reckoned upon this income before
the new year, and relied upon it all the more because I had on a former occasion explained
my difficult position to your sympathetic heart. When I forwarded D.'s last letter to you my
intention was to complain of his pedantic statement: "The honorarium will be paid to you after
the first performance,"--a statement to which I am no longer accustomed at any other theatre.
I further hoped to induce you-- as indeed I clearly indicated--to effect at least the immediate
payment of the honorarium. As my letter about the withdrawal of "Rienzi" was written with a
view to being shown, it may very likely have puzzled you; but I know that it was intended only
to frighten D., and to supply you with a weapon for forcing him into a decent and business-like
attitude. In consequence, I hoped that the success of this little manoeuvre would secure me
the receipt of the wretched twenty-five louis d'or before the new year. Upon this sum I looked
as my only certainty, because you were there to get it for me, while the moneys which I expected
from other quarters represented only so many hopes which might be delusive. At last New Year's
Eve came. My money was all gone; my watch, the snuff-box of the Grand Duke, and the bonbonniere
of the Princess, the only valuables I possess, had been pawned; and of the money I had got
for them only one and a half napoleons remained. When, on New Year's Eve, on entering my lonely
room, I found your letter, I confess I was weak enough to hope that it would announce to me
the imminent arrival of the twenty-five louis d'or, in consequence of the successful demonstration
against D. which I thought I had made. Instead of this, I found, in reference to this matter,
a serious explanation of your relations with D., which, as I see from this letter, have already
become matter of bitter and troublesome experience to you. I had foreseen this, and made you
silent reproaches when D. was called to Weimar through your means. I quite understood that,
owing to prolonged irritation, you were, on receipt of my last letter, in a mood which misled
you as to the character of my threat to withdraw "Rienzi." You recognized in me also the sympathetic
annoyance at all the unworthy things we meet with, and you overlooked the fact that a poor
devil like me cannot afford to be serious. Therefore you entered seriously and bitterly into
my withdrawal of "Rienzi," which, after the insults you had received, was welcome to you, and
I, for my part, had to witness on that wretched New Year's Eve the destruction of my last secret,
but none the less certain, hope of receiving money. The great disappointment of that moment
would, at any other time, have probably made me reticent and silent, but the long-expected
and ardently-longed- for boon of your sympathy for "Tristan" evoked in me a kind of convulsive
excitement. Once more, your joy at my first act had brought you so near to my innermost heart
that I thought I might, at such a moment, make the most outrageous demand on you. That feeling
I expressed, if I remember rightly, in the words, "For my paroxysm of joyous excitement your
delight at 'Tristan' is responsible." Dearest friend, at that moment I could not even think
of the possibility of a misunderstanding. Everything being so certain and infallible between
us, I went to the opposite extreme of reproaching you because you had left me in the lurch
with regard to money matters, and because you had taken my diplomatic demonstration against
D. in a much too earnest and pathetic sense, my only interest in him being comprised in a little
money. I further indicated that the various considerations, which to you, being on the spot,
and holding an official position, might appear serious and of great moment, did not exist for
me at all, the only connection between myself and the theatres, and their public art, being
solely that of money.

THAT OF MONEY! Yes, so it is; and with that you reproach me. You should rather pity me. Do
you not think that I should prefer your position in regard to the performance of your own works
because money is no object to you? My first letter of this year will have shown you that I
also am capable of considering the matter in a serious and literally pathetic, i.e., suffering
mood.

Enough of this. Your letter, received today, has affected me deeply, as you will easily understand.
Yet I am calm and full of hope. Your curious misunderstanding in applying my reproach, that
you answer me in "too earnest and pathetic a style," to your delight at "Tristan", must by
this time have become clear to yourself. I feel quite confident that any unprejudiced friend,
to whom you may show our last letters, will persuade you, in spite of your prejudice, that
my humorous and playfully extravagant reproach referred only to your idea of my intended withdrawal
of "Rienzi," and, generally speaking, to the expectation I had of D. and the whole slough of
our German operatic theatres. You now know the position which excited me to this kind of desperate
humour, and I hope it will be a long time before I again have to change my last napoleon at
the telegraph office.

It is you, dear friend, who are suffering and needing comfort; for the extraordinary letter
which you found it possible to send me can only have sprung from a terrible mental irritation.
I hope in the meantime that this lengthy explanation and disclosure of the misunderstanding
into which you had succeeded in falling will be some comfort to you. I have none other to offer.
If your irritation concerned me alone, this letter should dispel it altogether. Let me further
assure you that you have hurt me in no way, for your arrows did not hit me; their barbs stuck
in your own heart. This letter, I hope, will free you of them.

One more thing let me ask you today. Do not answer my letter of January 2nd. Look upon it as
if it had not been written, or, at least, not received. I am fully aware that you are not able
to put yourself in my place with such goodwill and understanding as would enable you to do
justice to my letter. Please forget it altogether; in that case, I will on my part pardon your
reproaches, you curious, dear, dear friend.

Farewell for today.

I am sure I have not lost you.

Your

RICHARD WAGNER.

VENICE, January 7th, 1859.

In order to set your mind at rest, I inform you that, by a curious and lucky accident, some
money, which I had long expected and already despaired of, arrived here from Vienna in the
first week of the new year. My three valuables (let a kind world forgive me this luxury!) are
out of pawn. For the present I am provided for, and do not apprehend any new stoppage of my
resources just yet.

May the friendly remembrance of me be revived in you.

Your

RICHARD W.

283.

Your greeting, dearest Richard, has brought me the enchanting forgetfulness of all that should
ever be far from us. Receive my thanks, and let us continue to suffer patiently together.

Before you had written to ask me not to mention your proposal, I had communicated it at some
length in the proper quarter. As I might have expected, after numerous similar conversations
(which I never mention to you) there were several reasons for not accepting it. Perhaps I shall
be able to broach the subject again later on, and obtain a more favourable result; to the extent,
I mean, that a small sum will be sent to you. Anything more cannot be hoped for.

I must ask you to believe that I am extremely grieved always to have to tell you things of
this kind.

In your letter to Princess M. you speak of a change of abode, and of your desire to settle
in a large town. In case, against my sincere hope, the permission to return to Germany should
be permanently refused to you, and you prefer to live in a large town, I still think that Paris
would be the most comfortable, the most convenient, and even the cheapest place for you. I
know your dislike of this city pleine de boue et de fumee; but I think that if you were to
live there for any length of time you would feel more at home, apart from which we should be
tolerably near each other, so that I might visit you frequently.

Have you had any further news from Carlsruhe? The newspapers continue to announce a performance
of "Tristan" in September, and I do not relinquish the hope that at that time a favourable
turn in your affairs will take place. Anyhow, this summer must not pass without our seeing
each other.

Once more, thanks for your greeting; the song is indescribably beautiful.

Most cordially your

F. L.

WEYMAR, February 17th, 1859.

From Vienna you will soon receive through my cousin a small collection of NOTES.

All that is kind to C. R.

284.

VENICE, February 22nd, 1859.

I have just received your letter; as I am expecting R. and W., who may come in at any moment,
I must defer answering you at length until tomorrow. But I will not go to bed today without
thanking you most sincerely for the great benefit you have conferred upon me by your letter.
I am often in a state of convulsive excitement, and must then look very ugly. But that state
has now disappeared entirely; you took it away today.

I shall say more about this tomorrow, and you will find me in a willing frame of mind for confessing
my sins.

One word more. If I have understood your short hint rightly, let me ask you, for Heaven's sake,
not to send me any money now. I could not bear it. Send me your "Ideals," and, when it is ready,
your "Dante;" those I am looking for longingly.

The boys have just come in; the well-brought-up K. thanks you a thousand times for your remembrance
of him.

More tomorrow, God willing.

My blessings on you!

Your

R. W.

285.

VENICE, February 23rd, 1859.

DEAR FRANZ,

To my hurried lines of yesterday I add a more comprehensive letter today. I have many things
to tell you.

Lately I felt the urgent desire of sending you a word of comfort and sympathy. I thought that
you were in need of such. For I had heard, to my horror, how great your annoyance must be,
and B.'s account confirmed my impression that you were deeply annoyed and grieved by ingratitude,
faithlessness, and even treachery. Suddenly, however, I felt quite stupid, and all I intended
to say to you appeared to me trivial and superfluous. I could think of nothing better than
to copy out for you a few fragments of my last work. They are not the really important things,
for those can be understood only in their larger context, and I am all the more obliged to
you for your kind reception of my good intentions, which count for little in art, but for a
great deal in friendship.

I must almost thank you for the alarming New Year's greeting which you sent to me. I believe
it has been beneficial to me; I am aware that I have too little control over myself, and rely
upon the patience of others to an undue extent. An occasional lesson, therefore, does me good.
Although I remain firmly convinced that you have misunderstood me in one essential point (as,
indeed, well you might), I feel, nevertheless, that I must have cut a very ugly figure. That
was proved to me by the effect I had upon you, for we know little of our appearance until we
see ourselves in a looking-glass, and in your irritation I recognized my ugliness. These attacks
of my violence ought surely to have calmed down by this time; indeed, I long for that unruffled
calm which I esteem so highly and recognize to be the finest quality in man. It appears to
me that I have arrived at the turning point of my life, and I deeply long for a state of quiescence.
I am aware that that quiescence must, at last, come from the inner man, and our position towards
the outer world must become one of apathy, if nothing from there contributes to the contentment
of our mind. Let us see then.

I am intent at present upon gaining a clear and definite view of my fate. My mental disposition
you know from my letter to M. As regards external matters, after mature consideration, I am
taking every step to place my future relations with Germany on the necessary definite basis.
I heard from Dresden that the king would on no account swerve from his decision to reserve
the amnesty for those who had submitted to the investigation and judgment of the law-courts.
I was advised to submit to that condition, but after mature consideration, and after weighing
all the chances, I am firmly resolved never to fulfil that condition. In order to do all that
was possible, I lately wrote to the Minister of Justice, asking him to discuss the matter with
the King once more. This measure was suggested to me by my latest experience in this place.
I ought to tell you and the Grand Duke for your satisfaction that, by desire of the Saxon Government,
I was to be banished from here. I was advised to submit unconditionally, but to send a medical
certificate to the Governor-General, praying that I might be allowed to stay for a few months
longer for urgent reasons of health. For the moment this has answered, and I am allowed to
stay. If I refuse to be examined or perhaps to be locked up a few months in Saxony, I base
that refusal towards the Government entirely upon my state of health, which I need only exaggerate
a little in order to show good and sufficient cause for my refusal. In other respects I submit
most humbly to the decree pronounced against me, recognize my guilt and the justice of the
proceedings without reserve--and only ask H.M. to remit the conditions of my amnesty by an
exceptional act of grace on account of my health, which has become so weak that the doctor
has strongly advised me not to undergo that strain. In that manner I think I have taken the
only step which may lead me straight to the goal of certain knowledge as to my fate. If the
King refuses to grant me this request it is clear that I shall have to give up all hope from
that quarter for ever. But even in that case I am resolved to make one more last trial. I shall
apply direct to the Grand Duke of Baden, placing the case before him, and asking him for his
permission to approach the Emperor of Austria, the Prince of Prussia, the Grand Duke of Weimar,
the Duke of Coburg, and perhaps one other friendly Prince with the prayer to grant me an exceptional
privilege of residence in their respective states, either by agreement amongst themselves,
or by a decree of the National Diet. Avoiding anything of the nature of a complaint against
the King of Saxony, I shall base this request solely upon the same circumstance, viz., the
very serious state of my health and my nervous irritation, which do not permit me to undergo
the risk of a criminal investigation at Dresden, although I fully recognize the justice of
that investigation, and do not expect the King to alter his decree in my favour. I shall further
ask the Princes in question to suspend the treaty of extradition in my favour after due consultation
with the Saxon Government, the object being to secure my personal efforts for the advancement
of German art. It will depend upon the consent of the Grand Duke of Baden whether I take further
steps in that direction. I do not venture to say that I expect a successful issue, but one
thing I shall gain in any case, and that the most necessary of all, viz., certainty as to my
position. I must no longer delay gaining that certainty, because my whole future life depends
upon it. Before telling you what further steps I have in view in order to gain certainty in
another direction also, I must answer your question as to Carlsruhe,

Devrient wrote to me that in case "Tristan" were finished by that time, September 6th, being
the birthday of the Grand Duke, would be the best day for the performance; and he added that
the Grand Duke counted with certainty upon my personal attendance. As to this last point, which
of course I had made the chief condition from the first, I have recently received further information.
The Grand Duke intends to invite me for the time in question to Carlsruhe on his own responsibility.
Nothing is to be known beforehand, and my presence is to be simply an accomplished fact, for
which the Grand Duke takes the personal responsibility. This seems a princely way of doing
things, and the young sovereign inspires me with confidence. But I must assist him by denying
any intention of a journey to Carlsruhe altogether. You will therefore oblige me, dearest Franz,
by ostensibly assisting me in this matter. You might cause some paragraphs to be inserted in
the newspapers, contradicting that rumour which, unfortunately, has been spread about a good
deal, and stating that nothing was settled, and that my personal attendance at Carlsruhe was
quite out of the question, as, as yet, there was not the slightest chance of my amnesty.

Concerning your own recent steps in my favour, I must charge you in all friendliness with having
acted too delicately towards me by not letting me know the motives of the refusal you have
met with. Even now you do not state those motives plainly, for the reason apparently that you
fear to wound me unnecessarily by their communication. On the other hand, I ask you to consider
that it would be better if I saw quite clearly in this matter. This would finally and for ever
free me from all the illusions into which my strong desire tempts me while things are in this
uncertain state, and an unpleasant feature of our mutual relations would disappear altogether.

All my transactions with the Hartels as to the edition of the scores, etc., of the "Nibelungen"
to be prepared at once, have again been abandoned recently. The only thing they were willing
to grant was the immediate commencement of the engraving (provided always that a performance
was guaranteed), without payment of an honorarium, and with the undertaking only on their part
to share the profits of the edition with me. How loath I am to agree to this latter proposal
I need not explain. The profits to be derived from such a work increase as the years go on,
and will probably become lucrative only after my death. In any case, those profits would accrue
to me at a time of life to provide for which at present would be folly, considering how urgently
I require immediate assistance and freedom from care. Heirs I have none.

Your advice to settle in Paris in case Germany remains closed to me quite coincides with my
own plans. The dear Child has communicated to you what my immediate views of life are. I cannot
bear this state of inactivity any longer; my health is ruined for want of life and action.
Paris is the place, appointed to me by fate. I quite agree with you in thinking that I shall
get accustomed to living there as time goes on. Apart from any plans, I shall there have at
least the occasional use of a fine orchestra which I have missed for so long. Without considering
for the present any possible performances at French theatres, I should there also have the
best chance of witnessing a performance of my own works. A well-managed scheme of German opera
would be all that would be required. But it is impossible for me and my wife to lead, once
more, a half-starving life in Paris. Some comfort and freedom of action must be secured to
me, otherwise I cannot think of it. I shall probably leave my furniture, etc., at Zurich. The
pretty little house will be kept for me, and I hope to inhabit it again later on in the summer,
which would be an agreeable change.

The hope you give me of receiving frequent visits from you in Paris is the real bright point
in the picture of the future.

Believe me, dear Franz, when I consider the advantages which my desired amnesty would offer
to me, there is only one which appears to me worth a real sacrifice, I mean that of being together
with you more frequently and for longer periods. What else is there that could very strongly
and decisively attract me? Performances of my operas I should, in most instances, carefully
avoid, although I might in rare and particular cases take part in first performances of my
works, which would of course be very desirable. The question, whether in that case encouragement
and new strength, or grief, annoyance, and overexcitement would be the lasting effect upon
me, I fear I must decide in favour of the latter alternative, and no external success, no applause,
could make up for this. If I was sensitive before, I am so now to the verge of excessive irritation,
and I dread every contact with theatrical matters, singers, conductors, etc., to such a degree
that I feel almost inclined to bless the fate which keeps me apart from them. But we, we two,
want to cultivate our friendship by personal intercourse; we are to each other the only enjoyment
which the world can offer us. Only think how painfully we have always been kept separated,
during how few weeks of the long and beautiful years of our friendship we have looked into
each other's eyes. This fountain of generation of inner strength and fire is fully appreciated
by me, and I feel it to be the direst deprivation that I can approach it so rarely. If you
promise me this boon for Paris, you may look upon my determination to go there as certain and
immutable.

Let me have a full account of yourself, dear friend; of all your troubles I hear from others,
sometimes even through the newspapers. That is not right; neither should you be too brief in
your statements; it looks like want of confidence. I want to gain a closer view so as to know
how to stretch out my hand, which would comfort you with a friendly touch. It is natural that
you are too great, too noble, too beautiful, for our dear, gossipy Germany, and that you appear
to the people like a god, whose splendour they are not accustomed and not inclined to bear.
It was left to you to illustrate this phenomenon, for so bright, so warm a being as yourself
had never before appeared in Germany. But I should like to know to what degree this miserable
conduct touches your heart, annoys you, embitters you. I have grown so indifferent to similar
impressions, that I often find it very difficult to discover the exact point where the impression
is made.

If, on the other hand, I consider what happiness is in your possession, what crowns of life
and of eternity are on your forehead, if I think of your sympathetic and nobly refined home,
free as it is from the serious cares of common life, if I finally observe how your personality
and your ever-ready art enchant and delight all around you, I find it difficult to understand
what your sufferings really are. And yet you suffer, and suffer deeply; that I feel. Sink your
pride for once, and write to me as plainly and as comprehensively as I too frequently do to
you, much to your annoyance. I must conclude, in order not to begin the fourth sheet, and will
only tell you in the margin that I thank you cordially for your love, and shall always remain
faithfully and lovingly

Your friend,

RICHARD W.

286.

MILAN, March 25th, 1859.

MY FRANZ,

I am once more on my travels without having told you anything about them; tired out as I am
by the Brera, the "Cena", the Cathedral, etc., I do not want to go to bed before sending you
two words of news.

In order not to interrupt the composition of my third act, I came to the conclusion that I
ought to begin it in a place where I might finish it. I have selected Lucerne for the purpose;
you know how dearly I love the Lake of Lucerne; the Righi, Pilatus, etc., are indispensable
remedies to me and my blood. I shall live there in solitude, and at this time of the year shall
easily find a most desirable lodging. There I mean to work splendidly. My Erard has already
preceded me.

My health gives me still much trouble, otherwise I am fairly well off, but with your friendly
cousin in Vienna, who thinks so little of your advantage, I have still a bone to pick. About
that next time. I should, no doubt, have had news from you if, in my last letter, I had not
again given you such a dose of gravy. I should have been only too happy to receive a sign of
life from you, even if that matter had not been mentioned with a word. I hoped for it from
day to day, and in that idle hope neglected advising you of my intended change of abode.

As soon as I am settled again I shall write better and more, without waiting for you to ask
me. For today these preliminary lines must suffice. A thousand cordial greetings.

Your

R. W.

LUCERNE, poste restante.

287.

Be heartily welcomed on the Lake of Lucerne, my dear, great friend. "Tristan" will once again
enjoy and derive strength from Alpine air before he leaves you for ever to shine on others.
At Carlsruhe they are afraid that he will not arrive punctually at the appointed time. Devrient,
whom I saw here and at Jena, told me so lately. The first performance is wavering between September
and December--the birthday of the Grand Duke or that of the Grand Duchess, and I have already
announced myself as the INEVITABLE guest.

Your dose of gravy, as you put it, was not particularly palatable. At our next meeting I shall
have to say much about it, unfortunately of the negative kind. Nevertheless, I hope to be able
at the same time to propose to you a different arrangement (if that is the name) with which,
no doubt, you will agree. First of all, however, "Tristan" must be finished, engraved, and
performed, and after that we will, without delay, take the "Nibelungen" affair seriously in
hand, and set it right to your satisfaction.

The Princess and her daughter are going to Munich next week (Kaulbach is painting the portrait
of Princess M.). I stay here till Easter, and then go on a visit to Prince Hohenzollern at
Lowenberg, Silesia. From the middle of May to the beginning of June I shall pitch my tent at
Leipzig, where all manner of things will happen. Later on, for Whitsuntide, grand Schiller
festivities are announced here. Whether they will take place is very questionable, but in any
case I shall have to get the music for the festival-play by Holm (VOR HUNDERT JAHRERI) ready,
which will be something of an effort.

My health, fortunately, gives me no trouble, and I have no lack of patience. The rest may come
and will come.

Farewell and persevere. Such is the wish of

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, April 6th, 1859.

288.

LUCERNE, April 19th, 1859.

Tell me, dearest Franz, how would you feel if you were in my position? I have repeatedly asked
you to send me your new works as they appear. The "Ideals" has appeared, but you are silent
on the subject. Now I read the publisher's announcement of the appearance of "Dante." How would
you feel if this happened to you? Do you still harbour your strange illusions about me? That
surely is impossible.

The weather is bad; I am absolutely alone, and seldom in the right mood for work. So I drag
on amidst mists and thoughts.

Let me hear, let me see.

Your

R. W.

289.

DEDICATION OF THE "DANTE" SYMPHONY.

As Virgil guided Dante, so have you guided me through the mysterious regions of life-tone imbued
worlds. From the bottom of his heart calls to you:--

"Tu se lo mio maestro, el mio autore!"

and dedicates this work to you with invariably faithful love

Your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, Easter 1859.

290.

LUCERNE, May 8th, 1859.

I should prefer not to write to you today, dearest Franz, because I am not in the proper mood
for it, but as I must not think of working, I make at least this attempt at some sort of activity,
without knowing exactly what the result will be. If you suddenly were to enter my solitude,--that
would be a chance of the possibility of a possibility. But you seem to have disposed of your
summer,--Lowenberg and Leipzig, while the third L. (Lucerne) has been totally forgotten. Well,
I stick to Lucerne, and, carefully considered, it is the only place in the world which is at
present possible to me. You know, or might imagine, that I do not live a life in the proper
sense of the word; the only thing that could help me--art, art to the verge of drowning and
world- forgetfulness, of that I have still less than of life, and this state of things has
lasted for a period which I soon shall count by decades. Excepting the servants, I see and
speak to no one; just imagine how I must feel. My good people, I fear you leave me too much
alone, and the meaning of "too late" will one day be brought home to you in connection with
me. It is very well to say: "Get "Tristan" ready, and then we shall see." But how if I did
not get "Tristan" ready because I could not get it ready? I feel as if I should break down
pantingly in sight of the goal. Once at least every day I look at my book with a right good
will, but my head is waste, my heart empty, and I stare at the mists and the rain-clouds, which,
ever since I have been here, have debarred me even from the chance of shaking up my stagnant
blood by pleasant excursions. People say: "Go to work, then all will be right." Very well in
its way, but I, poor devil, lack routine, and if ideas do not come to me of themselves, I cannot
make them A pleasant state of things this! and what is worse, there is no chance of helping
myself in any other way. All is shut and locked against me. Work alone is to help me, but who
is to help me to the possibility of work? I have evidently too little of what you have too much.

I am full of enthusiasm for the German Confederacy of the Teutonic nations. For heaven's sake
do not let the villain L. Napoleon touch my dear German Confederacy! I should be too deeply
grieved if any change were made. I am curious, however, what will become of my intended migration
to Paris. It is surely most unpatriotic to look for a comfortable existence at the head- quarters
of the enemy of the Teutonic nation. The good Teutons should really do something to save the
most Teutonic of all Teutonic opera-composers this terrible trial. Moreover, in Paris I shall
be pretty well cut off from all my German resources, and yet I shall be obliged to apply in
a very high quarter in order to get permission for permanent settlement in Paris, for my Swiss
settlement is coming to a close. Germany is evidently intent upon driving me forcibly to the
enemy. Very well! There is a possibility of my going in the autumn for six months to America,
where offers have been made to me which, considering the friendly sympathy of the German Confederacy,
I cannot very well neglect. This will be decided before long. What makes me hesitate is that
the "Tristan" scheme at Carlsruhe would be crossed thereby in such a manner that I should have
to give it up for the present, and should probably not resume it at any future time. The last
act of this child of sorrow is now on the verge of the "to be or not to be;" a slight pressure
of some spring of the vulgar fate, at whose mercy I am, might kill this child at the very moment
of its birth. Everything with me depends now upon the turning of a hand; there may be a way
and there may be a complete stoppage, for I, my Franz, am in a bad way.

I have heard nothing for a long time of any of my friends; they probably think that I am very
happy in my dear Switzerland, in this splendid solitude, in the joy of composing, forgetful
of all the world. I am not angry with them because they make themselves such illusions. If
they only knew that I had to threaten violence in order to get out of you the "Dante" symphony
dedicated to me, they might draw further conclusions from this fact. What do you say to that?
I have, after all, arrived at "Dante", of which I did not wish to speak today, because I love
it too much to involve it in my present mood. Let me tell you, however, that we had better
keep the dedication, written in my copy, to ourselves. I at least shall not mention it to a
soul. Your words have positively made me blush, you may believe me. I cannot tell you too often
how miserably weak I feel as a musician. I know, in the depth of my heart, that I am an absolute
blunderer. You ought to watch me when I am at it; now thinking "it must do after all," then
going to the piano to puzzle out some wretched rubbish, and giving it up again in a state of
idiocy. Oh, how I feel then! how thoroughly persuaded of my musical wretchedness! And then
come you, whose pores are running over as with streams, fountains, cataracts, and tell me such
words as those which you have said to me. I find it difficult to think that this is not the
purest irony, and I must recall your friendship in order to believe that you have not been
cutting a joke at my expense after all. This is a peculiar story, dearest friend; believe me,
I am not up to much. I really begin to think that Reissiger must have helped me with "Tannhauser"
and "Lohengrin." With my new works you have most certainly helped me, and now that you leave
me in the lurch, I can do nothing more.

About "Dante" only so much today that I was specially pleased to see how perfectly well I remembered
it from your playing it to me. As I come to study it more closely I perceive that no feature
of any importance had escaped me, even the smallest and finest details were perfectly familiar
to me from that time. This at least is good evidence of my receptive faculties; but I believe
that the credit is really due to the peculiar grandeur and quality of your work.

Generally speaking, if you wish to know, I am again in exactly the same condition as when I
wrote the letter about you to M. Concerning that letter I recently had a brand-new experience.
K. R. had not read it, when I found it accidentally amongst my papers at Venice, and gave it
to him. After that he came to me, and told me that people who were near to you had told him
in connection with this letter that I expressed myself in it in an evasive manner, and was
evidently intent upon saying nothing definite about you. He himself had been made anxious by
this, and now, having read it, was truly delighted at perceiving the ENORMOUS significance
I had attributed to you. Astonished at the possibility of an ill-natured misunderstanding,
I read the letter once more, and was compelled to chime in with K. R.'s impetuous declamations
at the incredible dulness, superficiality, and triviality of people who could have misunderstood
the meaning of this letter. I have taken a solemn oath not to publish ANOTHER WORD. What we
are to each other we know and tell one another at intervals for the sake of encouragement and
comfort. But what we are to the world I will be d--d if I--!

It is TOO incredible.

Good Lord! I cannot get out of my trivial mood in this letter, and therefore must not discuss
anything noble, least of all the "Ideals." If you want to be sure of hearing something rational
from me, come to me and play all your things to me, especially the Crusaders' chorus (splendid!!);
then at least YOU will know once more accurately what is in me. The whole thing is splendid.
Remember me to the Prince of Lowenberg, or whatever his name may be, and tell him that if the
German Confederacy does not recall me soon I shall go to Paris and betray the length and breadth
of Germany.

God be with you. I hope you will pardon this absurd letter. Ever thine,

R. W.

291.

What a terrible storm is your letter, dearest Richard! How desperately it lashes and knocks
down everything. What can be heard in the midst of this roaring thunder? Where shall I find,
and what is the good of, words, words, words?

And yet my confidence in you is unshaken. Hamlet's dilemma does not apply to you, for YOU ARE
and cannot help being. Even your mad injustice towards yourself in calling yourself a "miserable
musician and blunderer" (!!) is a sign of your greatness. In the same sense Pascal says, "La
vraie eloquence se moque de l' eloquence." It is true that your greatness brings you little
comfort and happiness, but where is happiness, in the narrow monotonous sense which is absurdly
given to the word? Resignation and patience alone sustain us in this world. Let us bear our
cross together in Christ--"the God whom one approaches without pride, before whom one bends
the knee without despair." But I must not be betrayed into needless Franciscan sermons.

Candidly speaking, I do not think much of your American project, and fear that New York would
appear even more uncanny to you than London. Nevertheless, write to me some particulars about
the offer which has been made to you, without the slightest fear of alarming the German Confederacy.
As I frequently said, Carlsruhe is, for the present, your best chance, and I am persuaded that
the Grand Duke of Baden, who is very well inclined towards you, will not fail to give you practical
proof of his kindness. Devrient does not expect to give "Tristan" before December, on the birthday
of the Grand Duchess. You need, therefore, be in no particular hurry to finish the work. In
any case, I shall visit you before that at Lucerne, or wherever you like, and will play to
you a lot of my stuff if, as you tell me, it amuses you. The noblest reward of my work would
be if it were to bring home to you the truth that you are and remain an IMMENSE MUSICIAN, and
if by that means you were incited to renewed industry.

In spite of all the war troubles the meeting of musicians will take place at the beginning
of June, as announced, and I have to take up my quarters at Leipzig for that purpose as early
as next week. Do not laugh at me too much because I continue to take an interest in similar
things; they are not without influence on your tentiemes, and from that point of view I may
ask for your toleration. I hope the weather will soon be finer on the lake, and a milder spirit
will illumine your soul.

Cordially your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, May 14th, 1859.

I told you at the time how deeply your letter to M. about the Symphonic Poems had rejoiced
me. The twaddle which dulness, triviality, and spite have talked about it is not worth notice.

292.

LUCERNE, May 15th, 1859.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Thiele, of Berne, the, trombone player, has just called on me, and told me that he recently
visited you at Weimar, not knowing at that time that the place of trombone player would be
vacant there. He asked me to recommend him to you, because, as a native of Weimar, he would
like much to be employed there. I am cordially pleased to recommend him to you most warmly,
not only for the sake of Thiele, but for that of your orchestra. He took part in 1853 in my
famous May concerts at Zurich, and on that occasion gained, I may say, my whole heart by his
enthusiasm. He had two very weak players with him, but managed to carry them along with him
by his energy to such an extent, that in the passage

[Musical score excerpt]

one might have thought that one was listening to a whole host of trombones. Thiele, in short,
is excellent, and known all through Switzerland as a trombone genius. I congratulate you on
his acquisition. Do not let him escape you.

Farewell for today, dearest friend. What state I am in you may unfortunately see from the fact
that a few days ago I felt bound in conscience and duty to ask Devrient not to rely on "Tristan"
or me any longer. This was bound to happen, and there is an end for the present.

Much luck to the Leipzig festival.

Farewell, and accept the best wishes of

Your

RICHARD W.

293.

May 21st, 1859.

DEAREST FRIEND,

Send Tausig to me; I hear he is disengaged. My wife has even written to me that he wished to
come to me. Otherwise I have nothing rational to tell you today. I feel miserable; you will
soon hear more. A thousand cordial thanks for your letter.

Your

R. W.

LUCERNE.

294.

DEAREST RICHARD,

My excellent friend, Felix Draseke, is on his way to you. Receive him kindly as one of "ours,"
and reveal to him your "Nibelungen" treasure, on which he is worthy of gazing with heart and soul.

I hope to be with you at the end of August; let me know where I shall find you then.

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, July 19th, 1859.

295.

Telegram.

WEYMAR, August 9th.

TO RICHARD WAGNER,

LUCERNE,

HOTEL SCHWEIZERHOF.

On the completion of "Tristan" the most cordial congratulations of your invariably faithful

FRANCISCUS.

296.

LUCERNE, August 19th, 1859.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I should like to thank Princess M. for the news contained in her last letter, and to congratulate
her cordially on her impending marriage, but I am ill, and a feverish cold has suppressed all
rational thoughts in me. But as I wanted to give you some news of me without delay, I ask you,
for the present, to be the very eloquent interpreter of my sincere feelings to our amiable
Child. The effort thus made, in spite of my indisposition, enables me to add that, although
the disappointed hope of your visit, which would have been most welcome just now, fills me
with grief, I fully understand that the sacrifice in my favour would have been too great. On
the other hand, I lay the sacrifice made by me at the feet of the happy Child with joyful pride.

As to my fate I can tell you nothing, not knowing myself whither I shall direct my steps. I
should like to live in Paris in absolute retirement, but the French Minister refuses to give
me his vise for my passport. In answer to my remonstrances, he wrote to Paris a fortnight ago,
but has had no answer. I am probably taken for an obstinate conspirator, an opinion which the
treatment I receive at the hands of Germany seems to countenance. I wait for my fate in my
little room here, neither longing for Paris nor attracted by any other place that is open to
me. Draseke is still with me, and I enjoy his visit. Soon he will go too.

Excuse me from writing any more. Even the effort of these few lines has put me in a perspiration.

Continue to love me, and greet Altenburg a thousand times from

Your

R. W.

"Tristan" has received your welcome with pride and joy.

297.

DEAREST FRIEND,

Your letter, received today, has increased my grief at not being able to be with you. Although
I am not much worth as a sick nurse, I should nurse you well, and assist you in passing the
time with more ease. Alas! we are miserable creatures, and the few who have penetrated the
deepest secrets of life are the most miserable of all. That snarling old cur, Schopenhauer,
is quite right in saying that we are ridiculous in addressing each other as MONSIEUR or citizen.
Compagnon de misere et de souffrance, or fellow-sufferers, and worse we are, TUTTI QUANTI,
and nothing we can do can make any essential change in this. The worst is that we know it quite
well, and yet never like to believe it.

What is this about the vise of your passport? Probably the impediment has been removed by this
time; otherwise make inquiries as to the quarter from which it arises, whether from the Saxon
embassy in Paris, or from the French police. Steps must be taken accordingly. It is understood
that I am quite at your service in this matter, but I should not like to make a faux pas, and
it is necessary, therefore, that I should be more accurately informed by you, in order to apply
at once to the right people.

In my opinion Paris is the most comfortable, most appropriate and cheapest place for you while
things in Germany remain in their wretched state. Although you may not agree with the artistic
doings there, you will find many diverting and stimulating things, which will do you more good
than your walks in Switzerland, beautiful though the Alpine landscape may be. I am surprised,
it is true, at your speaking of a permanent settlement in Paris at this moment. I thought that
your relations to Carlsruhe had reached such a point as to secure to you an asylum in the Grand
Duchy of Baden (perhaps at Heidelberg, unless the PROFESSORS should frighten you there). How
about the first performance of "Tristan" at Carlsruhe? Devrient informed me, with tolerable
certainty, that the intention was to give the work on the birthday of the Grand Duchess in
December, and that you would be invited to conduct it. I hope no change has taken place in
this. Let me have particulars. Perhaps I shall be able to assist you in simplifying the matter.

Do you know what I did a few days ago? Looking at your portrait, which you had signed "Santo
Spirito Cavaliere", it occurred to me to write a "Rienzi fantasia" for pianoforte. If it should
amuse you for a moment my time will have been well employed. I should tell you that your little
bust adorns my writing desk. You are of course without the company of any other celebrities--no
Mozart, no Beethoven, no Goethe, or whatever their names may be. To this room, which is the
heart of the house, none of them is admitted. What a beautiful day it will be when I see you here.

M. will leave us soon, probably in October; until then I cannot get away from here. If you
should happen to remain in Switzerland till after that, I shall visit you in the late autumn.
Otherwise I shall see you at Carlsruhe or Paris.

Remember me cordially to Draseke. I am very glad you have taken a liking to him. He is a splendid
fellow. In our small circle of most intimate friends he is called the "hero." Has he shown
you his ballad, "Konig Helge?" It is a glorious thing.

Be good enough to tell him that I INVITE HIM SPECIALLY to stay with me on his return journey,
and that I should think it very shabby of him if he played me the trick of flying past me under
my very nose.

Try to get well again as soon as possible, dearest friend, and continue to love

Your

FRANZ.

WEYMAR, August 22nd, 1859.

298.

PARIS, October 20th, 1859.

I hope, dear Franz, these lines will reach you exactly on the 22nd.

Accept my cordial wishes for your birthday. It is of great significance to me that just at
present, while I am seriously and deeply considering our mutual relations, I should come upon
this day which Nature herself, no doubt, counts amongst her most fortunate days. For what she
succeeded in creating on this day has borne such rich fruit that, without this gift of your
existence, there would be a chasm in the essence of things, of the depth of which he only can
judge who loves you as I love you, and who might suddenly imagine that you existed no longer.
Gazing down this terrible chasm, such as my imagination pictured it, I turned my eyes to you
as one awaking from a terrible dream, and was so sincerely delighted, so deeply moved by your
real existence, that you appeared to me as one newborn. In this spirit I greet you on this,
to me, highly important birthday. Your friendship is an absolute necessity to me; I cling to
it with my last vital strength.

When shall I see you at last?

Have you an idea of the position in which I am, of the miracles of faith and love which I require
in order to gain new courage and patience? Think this out for yourself, without my telling
you. You MUST know me sufficiently to understand this, although we have not lived much together.

I ask you, once more, when shall we meet again? Carlsruhe is more than uncertain. "Tristan",
altogether, has become a shadowy and half impossible thing. Do not wait for an external occasion
which may bring me to you. In the most favourable case the "Tristan" period, with its desperate
and terrible exertions, would not be fit for our meeting again for the first time. Be guided
to me by your innermost heart, and may it impel you to come to me soon. By the middle of November
I expect my wife. Could I not have you BEFORE? It is bad enough for me that I have to call
you, and that you do not come of your own accord. I heard of the marriage of Princess M. through
B. yesterday; he does not inform me where she is going to live. Kindly tell me where I am to
write in order to convey my wishes to her.

Farewell; I am just on the point of moving into my new lodgings. So I am "settled" once more,
without faith, love, or hope.

Farewell, and accept my wishes kindly; in congratulating you I congratulate myself.

Your

R.W.

16, RUE NEWTON, CHAMPS ELYSEES. 299.

PARIS, November 23rd, 1859,

16, RUE NEWTON.

Believe me, dear Franz, I find it very difficult to give you news of myself. We live too little
together, and must necessarily become strangers in one important aspect of friendship. You
wrote to me to Venice and Lucerne that you liked my migration to Paris for the reason that
you would be able to visit me more frequently. I have often assured you that I desired an amnesty
particularly because I should be able to pay you more frequent and longer visits, and I informed
you again that your promise induced me to look upon my Paris settlement in a more favourable
light. In spite of this, my first request for your visit addressed to you from here has met
with a refusal. You say you cannot come to Paris, and propose a two days' meeting at Strassburg
instead. What will be the use of these Strassburg days to us; what to me? I have nothing to
tell you in a hurry, no plans that we need discuss. I want to enjoy you, to live with you for
some time, as we have hitherto seen so little of each other. Why do you all of a sudden object
to Paris, where, if you do not wish it, no one need know of your presence? I can get you rooms
near me in a very remote quarter. We shall spend the days at my lodging, where you can see
whom you like. Why need you always be a public man apart from the private friend? I cannot
understand this. My poor deserted life has made me incapable of comprehending an existence
which casts a side glance at the whole world at every step. You must pardon me for declining
the Strassburg meeting, greatly as I appreciate the sacrifice which you offer me. It is just
this sacrifice which appears to me too great at the price of a few hurried days in a Strassburg
hotel.

I am extremely sorry that the Princess was unable to find me; her very valuable letter I fail
to understand. By the spontaneous joy and cordiality with which I should have received her,
she would have recognized what she is to me. She has often experienced this, and surely does
not suspect me of affectation. I do not know what to say to all this, and remain silent.

My silence extends to everything else that otherwise I might have told you about myself. If
one has to tell such things at all, it is better to be silent about them. As to the Carlsruhe
plan you are probably sufficiently enlightened. Devrient has thought it desirable to make an
excuse for the bungling and neglectful way in which he has taken up the idea of a first performance
of "Tristan" at his theatre, by saying that it is impossible to execute the work. To that ALSO
I do not reply. Why should I speak? I know my fate and my position, and remain silent. It is
more serious to think of the consequences which the wiping out of my new work from the list
of living things will have for my means of subsistence. However, why should I point out those
consequences? He who is endowed with five senses must know what my position is. I can complain
no longer, for that would mean to accuse, and I do not even want to accuse friend Devrient.
I have not said a word to him. You know enough now, and more than will please you.

My wife has arrived here. She is a little better, and I hope things will go on tolerably well.
She told me, without complaining, that you had been at Dresden without paying her a visit.
I tried to comfort her as well as I could.

Farewell, my dear Franz. Do not misunderstand me; I wanted to write to you, and for a long
time did not know how to set about it. Heaven only knows whether I have done it in the proper
way. Be always assured that you are dear to me above all else, even if I fail to comprehend
many things which determine your action.

Farewell. Greet the Princess, and tell her that her letter pleased me, although I failed to
understand it. Greet also Princess H--. May you all think ot me in a friendly spirit.

Farewell.

Your

R. W.

300.

BRUSSELS, March 29th, 1860.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Once more I give you a sign of life. That one lives at all is perhaps the most wonderful case
in point, and when one arrives at the end of things, one need not care any longer. Death, which
at this moment mows down men so recklessly, leaves us standing in a bare field by a mere whim.
One is astonished and a little thoughtful for awhile.

My fate is very odd. While the real thing for which alone I care remains enveloped in the most
German mist of impossibility. H.'s diplomatic skill has arranged for me all manner of Paris
glories, which float before me mockingly like a "Fata Morgana." Heaven only knows what will
come of this "Tannhauser" scheme. In my heart I do not yet believe in it, and for good reasons.
It is of more importance to me to perform "Tristan" in Germany, and I am determined to set
that old Dresden matter right if any decent concessions are made to me. If I succeed in this,
I shall look to Vienna as the theatre which has the best singers, and presents the unique phenomenon
of being conducted by a competent musician, with whom one can come to an understanding. This,
as you know, cannot be found in the rest of Germany.

Of you, dearest friend, I have heard nothing for a long time, for even H. was unable to tell
me anything. The comfort of your visits in Paris, which at one time you promised me so confidently,
will not, it appears, be vouchsafed to me. Be not offended, therefore, if today I send you
a visitor in order to give you some news of myself on the same occasion. I have been brought
here by the absurd illusion of being able, by repeating my Paris concerts at Brussels, to recover
some of the money which those Paris excesses had cost me. But of course the only results of
this excursion were new expenses and a little propaganda. Amongst the most valuable conquests
I have made here is first Herr A. Samuel, who is starting for Germany, and would like to be
introduced to you. He has been very amiable towards me, both in deed and word. You will like
him, too, and in that belief I recommend him to your welcome.

You also introduced some one to me here. Frau Agnes Street-- Klindworth brought me a letter
from you which you had given to her five years ago for London. I have to thank you for the
most pleasant acquaintance which you procure to me so unexpectedly and after all that time.
I was soon at home with her and Papa Klindworth, and owe the most pleasant memories to these
two people. The old man amused me greatly by his incredible wealth of diplomatic anecdote.

I return to Paris today in order to have a closer view of my brilliant misery. M. Royer wants
a large ballet for the second act of "Tannhauser"; you may imagine how I relish the idea. My
only refuge in the face of such demands is Princess Metternich, who is highly esteemed by Fould,
etc. I must see whether I can get rid of this ballet, otherwise I shall of course withdraw
"Tannhauser."

Well, you have now a good insight into the joy of my existence. Do not delay communicating
to me a fragment of your life. The only thing that makes our position towards this misery of
world and life tolerable is the growing contempt for world and life; and if one can arrive
at that in a good humour, things are all right for a little while. But when one perceives how
few things hold water, when one observes the terrible superficiality, the incredible thoughtlessness,
the selfish desire for pleasure, which inspire every one, one's own earnestness appears often
in a very comic light. This consideration is to me, at least, the only one which sometimes
puts me in a tolerable mood.

A thousand cordial greetings to you, my dearest Franz; with Mamma I get on very well. The old
lady quite touches me by her love and sympathetic insight. Farewell, and remember lovingly,

Your

R. W.

301.

Depeche Telegraphique.

WEYMAR, le 22 Mai.

Deposee sous le no. 93 a 12 heures 31 minutes s. Expediee a domicile le 22 a 2 heures 15 minutes
soir.

RICHARD WAGNER,

RUE NEWTON, 16, CHAMPS ELYSEES,

CHEMIN DE VERSAILLES, PARIS.

Cordial wishes for your birthday from your

FRANZ LISZT.

302.

Your letter, dearest, unique friend, is to me more beautiful than the most beautiful balmy
May day. May you rejoice in the joy which it has given to me.

I wish I could telegraph myself to Paris. Where could I be more happy than with you, in the
magic circle of "Rhinegold", the "Valkyrie", "Siegfried", "Tristan" and "Isolde"--all of them
the objects of my longing? But I must not think of this for the present, although I shall certainly
come as soon as I can.

Your photograph has been announced to me by an amiable hand, but has not made its appearance
so far. I told you before that your little bust stands on my writing-desk as UNICUM. The photograph
will find its place in the same room, which otherwise contains nothing ARTISTIC. Beethoven,
Weber, Schubert, and others of that stamp keep company to your portrait (that with the motto,
"Du weisst wie das wird") in the ante-room. HERE I want to have you alone together with my
St. Francis, whom Steinly has designed for me splendidly. He stands on heaving ocean-waves,
his outspread cloak on, firmly, unmovedly. In his left hand he calmly holds burning coals;
the right is extended in the act of blessing; his gaze is turned upwards, where the word "charitas"
glows, surrounded by an aureole.

The great life-question of the Princess has been finally and favourably settled. All the villainous
and subtle intrigues which were spun for a number of years have been dispelled.

After the return of the Princess from Rome (where she arrived last Sunday, and will probably
stay till the end of July) all will be arranged. I wish I could soon have the pleasure of seeing
you CHEZ NOUS.

Through Fraulein Hundt (whom, together with her friend Ingeborg Stark, you received so amiably)
I heard a good many things about your way of life in Paris. "Tannhauser", with ballet, and
a contest of translators as well as of minstrels, are immediately before you. It will be a
tough piece of work for you, and I advise as many walks and cooling baths as possible. Fips
should teach you a little philosophic patience during the rehearsals. Frau Burde-Ney told me
lately when she was "starring" here, that she intended to go to Paris for a few days, in order
to study Isolde with you. She has the necessary stuff ("Wupptich" they say at Dresden) for it.

A thousand thanks for the score which Hartel has sent me. You know best how all this is sung
from my very soul. Let me know when convenient what you consider most desirable in regard to
the performance of "Tristan." At Carlsruhe it seems impossible, and Devrient was inclined to
bet that "Tristan" could not be performed anywhere else either, unless you consented to considerable
alterations. This is by no means my opinion, and as often as Devrient said NO, I replied YES.
His stage experience is, no doubt, older than mine, but nevertheless I have perfect confidence
in my opinion of such things. You know for what reasons I did not, at the time, beg "Tristan"
for Weymar, and you will approve of my passive attitude. If, as I should not like to think,
no favourable chances for the speedy performance of this marvellous work turn up, and if, for
the present, you will be satisfied with a performance here, I firmly believe that I can arrange
it for next season (1861). Let me know your views when you write again. Meanwhile I remain,
with all my heart,

Your own

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, May 31st, 1860.

I shall remain here till the return of the Princess. Whether Berlioz will reply to your letter,
couched in the barbarous French of Genius, in OUR sense, appears somewhat doubtful. The more's
the pity.

303.

PARIS, June 15th, 1860.

Can you induce Herr D. to send me a prompt reply to my last letter? The question at stake is
whether or not I shall be able to do something for the health of my wife this summer in accordance
with the doctor's prescription. I MUST know this. At the same time I must declare that I shall
not accept less than 1,000 francs.

I do not want to encroach upon you, but what you can do without injuring yourself, do please,
as soon as possible.

If they think me worth that sum at Weimar I shall expect the bill of exchange by return of post.

Adieu.

Your

RICH. WAGNER.

16, RUE NEWTON, CHAMPS ELYSEES.

304. On the other hand, I must despair of ever prospering if, compelled by necessity, I have
to yield on every occasion. I have explained my view of the question of honorarium to D. quite
openly and without any brusqueness, and have finally insisted upon my first demand.

I should like to let my wife start as soon as possible. The worst turn which this affair could
take at Weimar would be, if my demand were simply refused, and if I had nothing at all to give
to my wife.

You now know my position exactly. If your diplomatic genius could find a middle course (in
case my demand cannot be carried) you would oblige me greatly. I suppose that you are on sufficiently
good terms with D., and hope that, at the worst, you will discover such a middle course. Therefore
kindly look after this trumpery matter. I am unfortunately surrounded by nothing but trumpery
things.

Let me hear from you soon.

Adieu.

Your

R. W.

305.

Concerning the "Rienzi" honorarium, I could effect nothing beyond what D. had offered to you.
Pardon me, dearest friend, for not having written to you at once, but I am very tired this
week and as unwell as the normal state of my health will allow me to be. It is not of any consequence,
and a few days' rest will set me right again. In the meanwhile I must unfortunately advise
you to accept D.'s proposal. The G. D. is not here, and no other course is open until the performance
actually takes place. After that I hope to get you a few hundred francs more. D. tells me that
"Rienzi" is to take the place of the "Prophet" next season. Five (say 5) new decorations have
been ordered, and are in preparation. Meffert will sing the title part, and the other characters
will be decently represented, while the chorus will be increased by soldiers. Let it therefore
take its course until we can do something better. Patience, says Byron, is the virtue of mules,
but he who does not possess it remains a miserable ass.

I shall write to you in a few days about several things not connected with business. Most cordially

Your

F. L.

June 24th (birthday of the Grand Duke, who is not expected back here before eight or ten days.
From Baden he has gone to Switzerland with his wife).

Your photograph has arrived at last, and lights up my room.

306.

MOST UNIQUE OF MEN,

Madame Kalergi's intercession in your concert affair gives me great joy. Beautiful and noble
traits of that kind are, unfortunately, seldom met with. Will you kindly forward the enclosed
lines to my gracious lady protectress? I do not know her present address. You are once more
in the old "Tannhauser" birth throes. Much luck! You will have to suffer much at the rehearsals,
and have perhaps never undergone so hard a trial of patience as the re-writing and studying
of this work, which to you is partly "ein uberwundener Standpunkt," as friend Brendel says.
Through means of the "Presse Theatrale", which is kindly sent to me, I remain au courant of
your exertions. Be not too much annoyed at being an immortal poet and composer; there is nothing
worse in this world to which one should apply the following modified version of Leibnitz's
well-known axiom: Tout est pour le mieux, dans un des plus mauvais mondes possible!

Alas! I lately again had a great misfortune. One of my few friends, the bravest and most self-sacrificing
of all, is dead. Her name was Clara Riese, and she lived as pianoforte teacher at Leipzig,
where, on Tuesday, I accompanied her to her last place of rest in the old Johannes cemetery.

Up to the last day I was in hopes that her incredible strength of character would keep her
alive; but in vain.

Excuse this mournful message, but I am still so full of her death that I cannot help thinking
of it.

Nothing is happening here. D. showed me your letter about "Rienzi", and I am thankful to you
for having behaved in so accommodating and generous a manner. The opera will be taken in hand
at the commencement of the season (September), and after the first performance I intend to
have some conversation with His Serene Highness. Before that it would be useless.

Have you heard anything from Seebach? Madame Kalergi will be the best and most useful intercessor
you could employ in this matter.

May everything succeed to your heart's desire.

Your

F. LISZT.

From the Princess I continue to have very good news; she will probably remain in Rome for some
time to come.

In October Hartel will publish the last two of my twelve Symphonic Poems, "Hamlet", and "The
Battle of the Huns." As soon as I have an opportunity I shall send you my medley of songs to Paris.

307.

MY DEAR RICHARD,

It will be quite right and proper for you to pay a call of thanks to the Princess Regent at
Baden-Baden. Considering the well-known favour in which you stand with the Princess, and the
sterling quality of her sympathy, she will not fail to have a favourable influence on the course
your circumstances will take in the immediate future. Your presenting yourself personally to
her is most likely to increase, if possible, her interest in your works. All this is right,
and as it should be; on the other hand, it is a pity that I shall not be able to come to Baden.
Excuse me from mentioning my reasons; you would perhaps think them miserable, but they determine
me categorically. Although I do not think that you will return to Paris as early as Saturday,
the hurried character of our meeting, especially in the landscape surroundings of Baden, would
be painful. I had made arrangements to start to-night, and the resolution of resigning the
pleasure of seeing you again costs me much. Nevertheless, I think it preferable to wait for
an opportunity more favourable to both of us, which, I hope, will occur soon.

B. was with me when your letter of August 10th arrived. He came from Wiesbaden, where they
were expecting you for a performance of "Lohengrin" (with Niemann). By-the-bye, there will
be no lack of "Tannhauser" and "Lohengrin" performances in these regions. Be a little lenient
and longsuffering with regard to their defects. Do not misinterpret my stopping at home for
the present; there is not an atom of laziness or egoism in it--mats tout bien considere je
dois faire ainsi, parceque cela vaut mieux pour vous--and I feel convinced that, later on,
you will agree with me.

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, August 14th, 1860.

My gracious master, the Grand Duke, spoke of you lately with the most lively interest, and
expressed his wish to see you here, to which I replied, that for that a SPECIAL occasion would
be necessary. You should not forget, however, that he has more than once interceded for you
with the King of Saxony by word and by letter.

308.

PARIS, September 13th, 1860.

At last I find time and the proper mood for writing to you in a more collected manner than
is usually the case. My late brief letters left a debt to you unpaid.

The letter I received from you at Baden quite satisfied me, and I felt quite ashamed at having
proposed so hurried, and to you so inconvenient, a meeting. The matter simply came to this:--

A longer excursion to Germany was on my part quite out of the question, and I had to abandon
all hope of the long-desired proper visit to you for this year. A brief interruption of my
anything but pleasant stay in Paris was, on the other hand, very desirable to me. I had promised
my wife to fetch her, if possible, from Loden. The Rhine I had never seen. I was told at the
Prussian Embassy that the Princess of Prussia would shortly arrive on the Rhine, and the Saxon
ambassador told me that he would be very pleased, and that it would be agreeable to the King
of Saxony also, if I were to thank the Princess for the interest she had taken in the decision
finally made in my favour. These various motives I developed into the plan of a very short
tour to the Rhine, such as suited my limited finances. One or two days more would have caused
the most painful embarrassment to me. I could of course not have thought of staying a day in
Frankfort without thinking of the possibility of embracing you, but as you were unable to come,
I was unable to wait at Frankfort; you understand why. Therefore, I ventured to ask you to
follow me to Baden, where my narrow financial circumstances compelled me to go. I fully understand
the reasons which prevented you from coming there. Pardon me for having attempted to smuggle,
so to speak, our meeting into another plan. The temptation to such an attempt was too great.

You are quite mistaken, however, in thinking that a "special occasion" would be necessary for
inducing me to pay a visit to Weimar. Believe me that I abide by what I told the Grand Duke
at Lucerne years ago, when he asked me whether I should be inclined, in case of an amnesty,
to stay at Weimar now and then. I told him that the chief reason which would attract me to
Weimar would be your society, and that, therefore, I should pay frequent visits to Weimar as
long as you were there. You will understand that in my relations to Weimar no change whatever
has, fortunately, taken place; on the contrary, I may hope that I shall no longer be obliged
to pay for the boon of your society by my participation in insufficient artistic doings (I
am speaking of the opera). Be assured that I am joyfully looking forward to the day when I
may set sail for Altenburg.

My position in Germany is still far from satisfactory. As you know, I am neither amnestied
nor has my sentence been remitted. All I have obtained is the promise that the claim to extradition
will be abandoned whenever, for the purpose of performing my works, I wish to enter a German
territory, the government of which has given its consent, and asked permission of the Saxon
Government. Even my six days' journey to the Rhine I could not have extended to Weimar without
previously complying with those conditions, for otherwise I should have offended the Saxon
Government at the very outset. Our German potentates cannot enter into direct communication
with me, for I am still a political outlaw, neither must I hope for important or sufficient
measures in my favour at any court, and the plans for the performances of my last works have
not been advanced much. This is all the more evident, as the condition of our largest operatic
theatres is most disappointing. Of Berlin I could not think at all without first contemplating
the possibility of a complete revolution of affairs, both as regards the theatre and the management.
I was not bold enough to approach the Princess of Prussia with any hope of producing a profound
impression in that sense. I was quite satisfied with meeting in her the SPIRITUELLE, intellectual,
lively woman I had pictured to myself, and I limited myself to acknowledging and thanking her
for the uninterrupted sympathy she had shown for my works without being in the least tempted
to communicate to her any plan or wish of mine.

It remains therefore a perfect mystery where my "Tristan" is to see the light of the world.
The birth would probably be most easy if I were to trust the King of Hanover with the delivery.
Niemann declares that the King would engage any singer, male or female, whom I should require
for the model performance of my work as long as that performance took place at Hanover. This
might lead to something; that King appears liberal and magnificent in his passion for art,
and nothing else will suit me. Let us hope that my political situation will be no obstacle.

For the present my Paris enterprise occupies me altogether, and mercifully obscures my view
of future German misery. I do not know what rumours are current with you as to the difficulties
placed in my way. They may be well intended, but they are false. NEVER YET HAS THE MATERIAL
OF AN EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE BEEN PLACED AT MY DISPOSAL SO FULLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY as has
been done at Paris for the performance of "Tannhauser" at the Grand Opera, and I can only wish
that some German prince would do the same for my new works. This is the first triumph of my
art which I personally witness. I owe it to the success of my works in Germany, which has gained
me such warm admirers, that the Emperor, on the strength of their word, has issued a truly
imperial COMMAND, which makes me master of the whole material, and protects me from all intrigues.
A translation, as excellent as could have possibly been expected, is another earnest of general
success. I have secured the best singers that are to be had, and the preparations in every
department are made with a zeal and a care to which Germany has little accustomed me. All the
leading people go with pleasure to a task which offers them a more interesting occupation than
is usual. I also take the matter seriously. I am removing such weak points as I have discovered
in the score. I take great delight in the re-writing of the great Venus scene, and hope to
improve the effect thereby. The ballet scene also will be executed on the larger scale designed
by me.

Unfortunately I have not yet been able to begin this necessary work in the proper way. Before
my journey to the Rhine the translation occupied me exclusively, and on my return here I had,
first of all, to complete a little piece of literary work which has only just been finished.
M. Frederic Villot, about whom H. has probably spoken to you, asked me to publish an edition
of my operatic poems in a prose-translation, and to add a preface explaining my ideas. This
I have done, and I hope that the opus will appear about the beginning of October at the latest.
The rehearsals are in full swing, but unfortunately I had to object to the baritone at the
last moment. Fould had at once to give orders for the engagement of a new singer, but we have
not yet found the right man, and this has caused a slight delay. There has, however, been no
trace of ill-will on the part of any one. M., who is working here in his underhand way, will
not, after all, be able to do anything against the Emperor and the cause; he is trying, however,
to secure the good engagements which have been made for me for his own benefit later on. Well,
I do not grudge him this; the man has no real initiative.

You have now, dearest friend, an approximate view of my life and work. That I should be happy
you can scarcely expect, but I feel the calm of the fatalist who surrenders himself to his
fate, astonished perhaps a little at the often curious manner in which it disposes of me and
leads me into unexpected paths, and saying to myself: "So it was to be."

With real horror I think of Germany and of my future enterprises in that country. God forgive
me, but I discover nothing but mean and miserable things, conceit and a pretence of solid work
without any real foundation; half-heartedness in everything. After all I prefer to see "Le
Pardon de Ploermel" in Paris than under the shadow of the famous, glorious German oak tree.
I must also confess to you that my treading once more German soil did not produce the slightest
impression upon me, except in so far as I was astonished at the insipidity and impertinence
of the language I had to listen to. Believe me, we have no Fatherland, and if I am "German"
it is because I carry my Germany along with me. This is fortunate, because the Mayence garrison
has certainly not inspired me with enthusiasm.

X. seems to be angry with me; I at last got annoyed with him because his optimism irritated me.

I cannot understand a good many things, and allowance ought to be made for me on account of
my curious life. X., it seems to me, fritters himself away; he undertakes too much, and by
that means loses the compact, concentric quality which a true man needs. I cannot look on without
being painfully affected. On the other hand, I am, no doubt, very wrong in not accepting so
true a friend as he is; and I have much reason to acknowledge X.'s friendship. He must not
be angry with me and do as he likes; but he should be sometimes a little more punctual with
his letters.

Believe me, that in spite of my Paris surroundings I feel awfully lonely, while of you I can
never think except as of some one who is surrounded by people, even at Weimar. Perhaps I have
a good many erroneous notions in that respect; at least Madame Street gave me to understand
as much when she described her visit to you. She said that you had been very sad, although
in very good health. Well, I certainly cannot see why you should be particularly joyous; at
the same time this news has struck me very much, and Madame W., to whom I spoke about it, was
quite frightened. There is something about you which causes you to appear surrounded by splendour
and light, and makes it difficult for us to understand what could make you sad. Least of all
am I inclined to discover the cause of your irritation in the stupid reception which your works
have met with now and then, for it seems to me that no one ought to know better than you that
this animosity is caused not by your works, but by the false light in which you appear to the
multitude. That light which reveals you as so exceptional a phenomenon, that a misconception
of it is only too easily accounted for, is now and then too powerful, especially for German
eyes. I think, therefore, you are right in withdrawing yourself from that illumination as much
as possible, and in letting your works take their own course for a time without the least anxiety
about them. One thing you will gain, the avoidance of personal contact. In that, everything
is misery, and believe me that while we try to "do violence to the kingdom of heaven," we only
stir up the nether mud. No, the kingdom of heaven comes to us in our sleep. But enough of this
vague talk! Let us soon meet, when we shall see how we can ward off all sadness. I shall soon
make a long stay with you.

God bless you, my Franz! Pardon this long talk to my desire of being near you once more.

A thousand greetings from

Your

R. W.

309.

WEYMAR, September 21st, 1860.

Your glorious letter, dearest Richard, made me breathe the pure atmosphere of high mountains
once more. You know what I require, and offer it to me in abundance. I was almost afraid that
you might have misunderstood my non-appearance at Soden or Baden, and I am cordially delighted
at being set right by you as to this. As I wrote to you before, it was IMPOSSIBLE for me to
get away from here before Thursday, August 16th. Well, all is over now, and you have pardoned
me. Let us talk of something else. How proud I should be of your visit here, and how beneficial
and strengthening prolonged intercourse with you would be to me, I need not tell you. I think
it more probable, however, that I shall pay you a visit in Paris first. The exact date I shall
not be able to determine until the continued uncertainty and wavering of all my circumstances
here have ceased, which must happen shortly. As regards your visit here, I repeat what I have
said to you and others. Weymar owes you a special distinction, and it is necessary that an
appropriate and adequate opportunity of presenting yourself here should be offered to you.
It is extremely amiable of you to mean principally me when you pronounce the name of Weymar.
I wish that this SYNONYM (in an artistic sense) were a little more pronounced; that my advice
were followed, and my reasonable wishes complied with a little more readily. But this can scarcely
be expected, and I must in this, as in other matters, show myself resigned, determined, and
consistent. I quite agree with what you say of the "INSUFFICIENT artistic doings" here; however,
many things COULD and SHOULD be done, especially for you and your works. You will understand
that I cannot abandon this view, and that I shall do all in my power to realise it. The impending
performance of "Rienzi" may do something towards it.

I consider Hanover a well-chosen ground for the first performance of "Tristan." The King works
magnificently for his theatre, and if the matter is placed before him in the proper way, it
may be expected that he will carry out your wishes and intentions. Unfortunately I cannot be
of service to you, for to the particular influence of some of my "FRIENDS" I owe a distinctly
pronounced dislike on the part of His Majesty. All I can do in the face of this is to wait
quietly and resignedly, until the King condescends to adopt a more correct view. Fortunately
Niemann is devoted to you, body and soul, chest-voice and head- voice. He will, no doubt, do
all in his power to bring about the scenic embodiment.

Berlin and Vienna will probably hold back a little in existing circumstances, and the rest
of Germany, which is united at least in the spirit of NEGATION, will probably wait prudently
until the camel comes walking along, after which it will consult no end of folios in order
to describe and appreciate it properly. Oh! lazy abomination, your name is--artistic conditions.

At Wiesbaden, Frankfort, and I know not where else, they were waiting for Wagner, and wanted
to see him conduct, or at least listen to, "Tannhauser", "Lohengrin", etc., and there would
certainly have been no lack of enthusiastic demonstrations; but from a work like "Tristan",
at the very first sight of the score of which every one must exclaim: "This is something unheard
of, marvellous, sublime," they run away, and hide themselves like fools.

I have taken the liberty of making use of the passage of your letter referring to the ready
assistance you receive from the artists, and the management of the Grand Opera in Paris by
Imperial command; and in the next number of Brendel's paper you will read something corresponding
to your letter in the form of an original correspondence. We had, of course, to adapt some
things too true in themselves to our laudable habits here. As I have named Brendel I should
like to mention a request, viz., that you should publish the preface to the French translation
of your dramas in Germany, simultaneously with the Paris edition, and that you should for that
purpose send the ORIGINAL, probably written in German, either to Brendel or some publisher.
A translation of that preface will, no doubt, appear, unless you forestall it by the original
itself, and thus prevent the travesty of your ideas, or at least of your style. If no German
sketch should be in existence, my request of course falls to the ground, for it would be asking
you too much to do the work twice over.

Then you are satisfied with the translation of "Tannhauser?" I am extremely pleased, for I
confess that I think it no easy task to Frenchify your works in your sense. I am very curious
to see the new version of the Venus scene and the ballet. When you have finished it quite,
and a copy has been made, you might perhaps lend me the sketch of the new version for a few
days, but I hope that this will be made unnecessary by my visit to you.

Truly, dear Richard, we belong together and must come together at last. Cordial thanks for
your kind letter, which in these dreary days has been a great and noble joy to me. Amongst
other things you have taken a fine and strikingly correct view of the totally passive attitude
with regard to the reception and promulgation of my works which I shall observe for the future.
Other people have somewhat misunderstood my conduct. What a blessing it is to be able to dispense
with the explanation and discussion of certain things!

God bless you, dearest Richard; keep fresh and brave and upright. Your

F. LISZT.

I shall write to X. today, and give him news of you. 310.

PARIS, November 24th, 1860,

3, RUE D'AUMALE.

DEAREST FRANZ,

Forgive me for writing but a few lines. I have been severely ill these four weeks, and my recovery
is scarcely noticeable. I am still extremely weak.

I have an urgent request to make. Fancy! I do not possess a SINGLE copy of my poem of "The
Ring of the Nibelung." I want to publish it, and do not know where to get a copy for the printer.
I remember that at the time I sent a great number of copies to Weimar, and there was such abundance
there that (as I think Draseke told me) the book was to be had secondhand. Be kind enough to
get me one copy in consideration of my urgent need, and send it me as quickly as possible.
If there should not be a single possessor who could make up his mind to part with his copy
in spite of the author's great difficulty, I promise to restore to him the identical copy after
the completion of the reprint. I may therefore fairly ask even the most ardent admirer of my
poem to make this sacrifice on my behalf.

Alas! I begin to perspire, and can write no more.

Come to Paris as you promised, and make me happy!

Your

R.W.

311.

DEAREST RICHARD,

I have managed to get a copy of your "Nibelungen." Counsellor Muller was kind enough to give
me his for you; it was taken yesterday to Paris by the courier of the French Embassy here,
together with the volume "Wagner und das Musik-Drama," by Franz Muller, which has just been
published. You will receive the little parcel from Monsieur Leree, chef de bureau des departs
au ministere des affaires etrangeres. It is not customary for the ministry to transmit private
messages, and you therefore must either call on M. Leree personally, or send him a few lines.

I was in bed a whole week at the same time as you. There are moods and conditions in which
we bear physical illness better than the uninterrupted sequence of every-day cares and tribulations.

When will the French edition of your three operatic poems appear, and what publisher undertakes
the edition of the "Nibelungen?" Have you arranged with Schott about the publication of the
full scores of "Rhinegold" and the "Valkyrie?" Send me word as to these three things.

The first performance of "Rienzi" is announced for Boxing-day. I have conducted several rehearsals,
and have undertaken the others as well, but I have declined most positively to conduct the
performance. That performance will be a brilliant one according to the circumstances here,
and will probably realise D.'s expectations as to pecuniary success. Capellmeister Stor, who
has conducted your three other operas ever since I left the theatre definitely, will undertake
the direction of "Rienzi." Our artists are full of enthusiasm.

As a trifle I may mention to you that Muller of Dresden (Messrs. Meser) will shortly publish
two transcriptions by me,--the "Spinning Song" ("Dutchman"), and "Santo Spirito Cavaliere"
("Rienzi"). I shall not talk to you about my coming to Paris until I am able to tell you the
exact date; it will be before long.

Your

F. L.

WEYMAR, December 2nd, 1860

312.

PARIS, December 15th, 1860.

DEAREST FRANZ,

I am very slowly regaining my strength. What impedes my recovery, and indeed makes it impossible
for the present, are the extraordinary exertions and excitements to which I have to expose
my health, which is gradually coming back to me. My daily occupation is this, that by the utmost
care and by abstaining from any other kind of activity, however slight, I manage to attend
the rehearsals at the opera. The proofs of "Rhinegold", which Messrs. Schott would have liked
so much to have published at Christmas, have been lying on my table for seven weeks without
my being able to make any progress with them. Guess at my condition from this fact, and forgive
me anything that I may have done to shock you.

Pardon, for example, my not having thanked you before for sending me Muller's copy of my "Nibelungen."
Good Lord! I wanted so much to hasten the publication, and hurried you in consequence. Now
I possess the copy, and have not been able even to look at it. I also found it impossible to
send you the book before this; I have a horror of undertaking anything, and apart from this,
the Paris publishers treat one with abominable negligence. The German original of my letter
to Villot you have probably seen. I have not been able yet to address a single line to my Leipzig
publisher in connection with this matter.

For "Tannhauser" I have still to score the grand new scene for Venus, and to compose the whole
of the Venusberg dance music. How this is to get done in time without a miracle I fail to perceive.

I wish YOU would at last come to Paris.

But no more of this. I cannot speak of anything at greater length, firstly, because I know
too little, and secondly, because I must absolutely conclude these lines.

Farewell, and a thousand greetings.

Your

R. W.

3, RUE D'AUMALE.

313.

MY GREAT FRIEND,

How it is that we live for weeks and months BY THE SIDE OF EACH OTHER while I know all the
time that we are cordially united and, so to speak, welded together in spirit, I will not explain
to you today. You have probably heard of the painful circumstances which prevented me from
visiting you in Paris at the end of February. God be thanked, my anxiety is now slightly diminished,
and I intend to arrive at Paris between May 7th and 9th. But I do not want to have it talked
about because the many impediments which have so far frustrated my travelling schemes have
made me a little superstitious.

With your permission I should like to advocate the offer made to you by Brendel, concerning
the performance of the second act of "Tristan," at the meeting of musicians (August 7th). Schnorr
and his wife have undertaken to sing, and the other parts will be decently filled here. Of
course, this fragmentary performance ought not in the least to disturb or interfere with your
original and further plans concerning this work. I hope that you will credit me with sufficient
knowledge of the circumstance to understand your hesitation at sanctioning this proceeding.
Be good enough to tell me simply what you think about it. If you do not send us packing, and
look favourably on our request, the proper steps will be taken.

Write to me, if possible, by return of post, because I leave here on the 29th inst.

Your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, April 18th, 1861.

314.

A thousand thanks, dearest Richard, for your kind letter. May the treacherous fate which has
hitherto kept us apart soon be vanquished for ever. No one can understand better than I that
a fragmentary performance of "Tristan" must appear quite absurd to you. I thank you for the
gentle manner in which you reply to my proposal, and take into account the narrow circumstances
and resources which impede my activity. You cannot believe how painful it is to me not to be
able to do anything PROPER for your honour, benefit, and use. For several years all my steps
and efforts in that direction have been in vain; otherwise, not only "Tristan" but "The Ring
of the Nibelung" would be in existence and do wonders. I was told several times, and positively
assured, that everything would be done here to further your efforts, and especially to effect
the performance of "The Nibelungen" and of "Tristan." I, for my part, have clearly demonstrated,
by word of mouth and by letter, what they would have to do, viz., to invite you here for the
purpose of mounting and conducting those works in accordance with your instructions and wishes.
But the whole plan was always wrecked on the score of expenses.

I will not trouble you with the details of this affair, the failure of which, between ourselves,
was my chief reason for giving up my connection with our theatre altogether.

The Carlsruhe performance of "Tristan" in September will be a great joy to me. The Grand Duke
of Baden be praised and thanked for it. You will reward his kindness and grace in a glorious
manner.

What will become of me in the course of this year is quite uncertain. First of all I shall
see you in Paris.

Your

F. LISZT.

WEYMAR, April 26th, 1861.

An answer would be too late to find me here.

315.

PARIS, June 15th, 1861.

DEAREST FRANZ,

A few days ago I received a telegram from Leipzig for Tausig, in which he was requested to
send his address. Today followed a letter for him, accompanied by one to me, in which I am
asked for information as to Tausig and his whereabouts. I think it unnecessary to give that
information, because I assume that Tausig has either seen the person in question at Leipzig
or given news of himself. I therefore ask you to transmit to our young friend these facts,
and also the enclosed letter intended for him, as I do not know what to do with the latter.

Beyond this I have nothing to tell you, dearest Franz--no event, no plan, no hope--for not
the slightest change has taken place in my position.

Farewell, and, if possible, make me happy soon by news of your well-being.

Cordially your

R. W.

3, RUE D'AUMALE.

316.

DEAREST RICHARD,

A letter from my daughter, Mdme. Ollivier, informs me that your wife will go to Soden by the
middle of this week, and that you intend to come to Weymar by the end of the month.

Your presence here, coming as it does at the end of my too much prolonged stay, will be a beautiful
spiritual ray of sunlight; let me urgently pray you not to refuse me this joy. On August 15th
I intend to leave Weymar for a longer period, and have made the necessary preparations for
my removal.

You will, of course, stay with me at Altenburg, where H. and T. also have quarters. To the
Grand Duke I have announced your visit, and I expect that your personal relations to him will
be of a most pleasant and satisfactory kind.

How about your settling at Carlsruhe? Have your pecuniary affairs been arranged in Paris, and
how? Let me know something about this.

As to myself I know nothing definite, except that I am going away from Weymar. Many objections
have of course been raised, which, however, have not been able to alter my resolution. Between
this and the beginning of August I shall fix on my next place of abode, which will, in any
case, not for the present be a large town, because I want retirement and work above all. Briefly
speaking, my situation is indicated by this dilemma: Either my marriage takes place, and that
soon--or not. In the former case, Germany later on, and especially Weymar, may still be possible
for me. Otherwise no!

For the moment I am plagued with all kinds of business matters. Excuse me, dearest Richard,
for writing you so little, and vouchsafe soon the great joy of your presence to

Your sincerely devoted

F. LISZT.

P.S.--My daughter writes to say that she will arrive here with Ollivier on August 3rd. The
performance of the "Prometheus" and "Faust" symphonies will be on August 6th.

END OF VOL II.