CHARLIE SCOTT;

OR,

THERE'S TIME ENOUGH.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER I.

A SHIP AT LAST.

"This has been a hard month for me," thought Morley Scott, the pilot, as he stood shading his
eyes from the sun, and gazing anxiously out at sea. He hoped to have caught a glimpse of ships
in the distance, for the winds had been very contrary lately. Many ships had been obliged to
pass by the harbour, unable to get in, and the pilots had found very little to do.

"That looks well," he thought, brightening up, as he saw a busy little steam-tug puffing along
with a ship in tow; he knew a pilot would soon be wanted to bring it safely into the docks.
He had not stood many minutes, trying to make out the ship, when he heard his name called,
and turning round, he saw a boy running towards him.

"Here's the Refuge at last, Morley Scott," said the boy; "they want you on board directly,
because they are coming in to-night."

Morley Scott put his hand in his pocket, and gave the lad the customary sixpence for his good
tidings. "It's almost the last," he said with a smile, pointing to the sixpence; "but still
the news is cheap at that."

"I should think it is," said the boy, as he ran off laughing.

Morley Scott walked quickly along the pier until he came up to a row of boys, who were sitting
on the edge of the wall, fishing. He stood for a moment to watch them with an expression of
amusement in his good-natured face. They sat perfectly still, afraid to speak or move, and
scarcely daring to breathe, lest they should frighten away the fish; each boy watching his
own and his neighbour's line with feverish anxiety. Suddenly one little fellow, in a state
of great excitement, began tugging at his line.

"Now then, Charlie Scott," called a big boy, who seemed to be the head of the party, "what
are you pulling in that line for again? That is the third time in less than ten minutes; how
is it likely we can catch anything?"

All the boys joined in a low chorus of "Yes, indeed!" "A pretty fellow he is to fish!" "Serves
us right for letting him come with us." The fact was, the boys had been very unsuccessful that
afternoon; they had taken nothing, and it was a relief to have some one to lay the blame upon.

"I am sure there's something this time, though," said Charlie, still pulling away. His manner
was so confident, that the boys became interested in spite of themselves, and several nearly
lost their balance, craning out their necks to see beyond each other.

At last up came the hook, with a jerk that sent Charlie backwards; it had been entangled in
a large piece of seaweed, that gave way suddenly just as he got it to the surface. "It's very
strange," he said, as he examined the hook minutely, longing to find something alive, no matter
how small. "It's very strange; I'm always feeling something, and yet I never catch anything."

"I tell you what it is, young Scott, if you don't mind what you're about, you'll both feel
something and catch something soon that you won't like, perhaps," grumbled the big boy.

"Here, Charlie," called Morley Scott, seeing there was likely to be a quarrel, "I want you
to run on an errand for me."

Charlie looked round, and seeing his father, he jumped up readily. To tell the truth, he was
not sorry of the excuse to give up his fishing; he had been thoroughly tired of it for the
last quarter of an hour, although he did not like to own it to the other boys. He was a bright,
happy-looking little fellow, about eight years of age, with light, waving hair, merry blue
eyes, and sunburnt face.

"What is it, father?" he asked.

"I want you to run and find uncle John; tell him that the Refuge is lying off at sea, waiting
for us. Ask him to come with you, because they want to be into the docks to-night."

Away ran Charlie with his message, and soon returned with uncle John. All three then made their
way to the docks, where a number of small boats were moored.

"Do take me with you, father," pleaded Charlie, as the two men jumped into one of the boats
and prepared to push off.

"No, no, Charlie, not this time," said his father; "remember you have your lessons to learn;
besides, I dare say you have not had your tea."

"Oh, I can learn my lessons when I come back, and I've got a large bun here," he said, lifting
up his jacket to show it; "uncle John bought it for me as we came along. Please do let me go,
it's so miserable now, when you are away; I never like to go home, Mrs. Wood is so cross."

"Well, jump in then," said his father, with a sigh; he knew how the boy missed his kind, gentle
mother. She had been dead nearly six months, and since then Charlie and he seemed to have been
without a home. When his wife died Morley Scott scarcely knew what to do for the best. He had
no relation who could take charge of Charlie and of his house, so he thought it would be best
to sell his furniture and go to lodgings. It seems he had not been very fortunate in his choice,
for according to Charlie's account Mrs. Wood, the landlady, was often ill-tempered.

The two men took their oars, and began to pull in the direction of the ship that was lying
out some distance from the harbour. Charlie had found himself a snug little corner in the stern
of the boat, and was enjoying himself thoroughly in a quiet way, catching at the bits of floating
seaweed and chips, spreading his fingers out like the arches of a miniature bridge, and letting
the water rush through them, occasionally munching at his huge bun by way of variation.

For a wonder Charlie's busy tongue was still; he saw by his father's countenance that he was
not in a mood for talking. It wore a troubled, saddened expression; he was living over the
old sorrow that Charlie's words had called up. His uncle, too, seemed in deep thought, and
rowed on in silence; although they were unconscious of it, perhaps, there is no doubt that
all three felt the influence of that beautiful calm summer evening.

The rich hues of the setting sun were gradually fading out from the sky, yet wonderful shades
of crimson, rose colour, and gold, still lingered lovingly amongst the clouds, and rested upon
the waters. All the bustle of the town had been left far behind; there was nothing to break
the silence but the measured plash of the oars, and the soft rippling and murmuring of the
water as the little boat rode lightly over the waves.

As Charlie gazed up at the glorious sky, he began to wonder where the sun went to every night,
and how it was that there were always such lovely colours in the sky just where it disappeared;
at last he came to the conclusion that the sun went into heaven, and that beautiful golden
and rose-coloured light streamed out when the door was opened.

Charlie liked this idea so much, that he was quite disappointed when he learned afterwards
that it was not the case.

"What a grand place heaven must be!" thought Charlie, remembering what he had heard at Sunday
school. "How splendid God's angels must look, floating about in that beautiful light, with
their white robes and crowns of gold!" Charlie went on thinking and thinking much in the same
strain, until at last the ship was neared.

Morley Scott brought in his oars with a sudden movement, and springing up in the boat, hailed
the ship, "Refuge ahoy!"

CHAPTER II.

GOING HOME.

It is more than hour since we left Morley Scott hailing the Refuge. How is it that the ship
has not been moved yet? And here is the little boat turned homeward, and strangers have the
charge of it.

Is Charlie asleep, that he lies there so pale and still? he has not moved once since we looked.
And that something lying in the boat, covered by a ship's colour, what can it be? The night
air is damp and chill, and the sea looks grey and deadly in the twilight.

One of the sailors leans forward to look at Charlie. "Poor little one," he murmurs, in a kind
but sad tone.

"I wish we were yonder," said the other sailor, moving his head in the direction of the town.
"I don't like the look of that boy at all; it may only be fainting, but it looks to me more
like death than anything else."

It was almost dark when they reached the harbour.

"You stay with the boat," said the sailor who spoke just before, "and I'll go up into the town
and see about help."

A man who had noticed their arrival sauntered up, curious to know if anything was the matter.

"Morley Scott and his brother are drowned."

In answer to the man's anxious questions, the sailor told him that when Scott's boat came along-side
the ship a rope was thrown to them as usual to be made fast, and, unfortunately, both Scott
and his brother sprang forward to catch it; the boat gave a violent lurch, and in a moment
they were plunged into the sea, Morley Scott's head striking the ship's side as he fell. His
brother was never seen again; they supposed he must have come up underneath the ship, and so
met certain death.

Morley Scott's body they recovered, and had brought with them in the boat.

The sad news that two men had been drowned soon spread, and before long many anxious, awe-stricken
faces were gazing down into the boat at the object which lay terribly still, covered by the
ship's colour.

When poor little Charlie was lifted up, many a mother, with tears in her eyes, love in her
heart, and thoughts of the little ones at home, pressed forward with offers to take the boy.
One woman was even more eager than the rest: "Let me have him," she said; "he is like my own
child that I lost last year come back again," and trembling with, emotion, she took poor Charlie,
who was still unconscious, in her arms.

"I'll carry him home for you, Mrs. Heedman," said one of the men, kindly; "it's a good way
to your house, and you'd find him heavy before you got there."

When Charlie awoke, as he thought, from sleep, he found himself, to his great astonishment,
in a neat little bed with white curtains and counterpane. A small table stood near, with a
glass, and bottles of medicine, such as he remembered to have seen when his mother was ill;
and opposite his bed hung a picture of the finding of Moses.

It was very strange: Charlie rubbed his eyes, thinking he could not be quite awake, surely,
and looked again; but the things were still there. Then he tried to remember what happened
before he went to sleep, but his head felt so weak and light that he could not think. He put
his hand out and felt the curtains; they were real enough. Just as he was making up his mind
that he would try to sit up and look about the room, the door was gently opened, and a pleasant
face peeped in. Charlie remembered at once that it was good, kind Mrs. Heedman, who used to
come and see his mother when she was ill.

She seemed surprised and glad to see that he knew her, and coming quickly up to him, gave him
a kiss, put his pillow to rights, and told him he must not get up yet.

"I feel very tired, Mrs. Heedman," said Charlie languidly; "have I been asleep long?"

"You have been very ill, dear," she answered, gently, "so ill that you did not know any one
for a few days. Are you glad I brought you here to this nice little bed, to take care of you?"

"Oh yes, thank you," said Charlie, earnestly. Mrs. Heedman saw that he was thinking and trying
to remember something, so to change the current of his thoughts she poured out his medicine,
and handed it to him. "Now drink this up, like a good boy," she said, "then I will bring you
some beef tea soon."

Charlie rather unwillingly, and with a wry face, drank the mixture. As he gave her back the
glass, his eye rested on a picture that had been hidden before by the curtain; it was a ship
and some small boats at sea. In a moment the something that he had been trying to remember
flashed upon him, and burying his face in the pillow to shut out the picture, he sobbed out,
"Oh, father, father!"

Mrs. Heedman stood quietly by, waiting until the first burst of grief was over, and asking
in her heart for the help of God's Holy Spirit to teach her what she had best say to comfort
him. Presently the heavy sobs almost ceased; but Charlie did not move or speak. She took his
hand in hers smoothing and caressing it, as if to assure him of her sympathy.

"Charlie dear," she said gently, "it is very sad, and very hard to bear, is it not?" Charlie
did not speak. She sat down beside him, still keeping his hand in hers, and went on speaking.

"Last year, when my own dear little boy died--you remember Tom, don't you, Charlie? Well, when
he was taken from me, I thought my heart would have broken; it seemed as if I should never
be happy again. I felt sad and ill, and weary of everything, just as you feel now." Charlie
turned towards her, and looked interested. "For some weeks I was very unhappy, and thought
no one had such a trouble as mine; but afterwards I learned how wrong it was of me to find
fault with God's will; and when I began to count up all the blessings I had received, and remembered
all that my dear Lord Jesus Christ had done and suffered for me, I felt sure that He who loved
me so much would not let me suffer any pain or sorrow that was not necessary for my good."

Charlie was listening attentively; he quite understood all Mrs. Heedman said. His mother had
often read to him out of the Bible, and spoken to him of the Saviour.

Mrs. Heedman went on: "You must remember, Charlie, that you are now one of God's very dear
children. We are all His children, but He has especial love and care for those whom He has
been obliged to leave without any earthly parents. God promises in His own holy book, the Bible,
that He will be 'a Father to the fatherless;' that He will relieve the fatherless; that He
will help the fatherless; and that if the fatherless cry unto Him, He will surely hear their
cry. When you are stronger, I will find the passages and read them to you, and many others
that are very comforting. Now it is quite time that you had your beef tea; I will get it for
you, and then we can talk again."

Charlie thought the beef tea was delicious; he was already beginning to feel that relish for
savoury food that most fever patients experience when they are recovering.

"It's very nice," he kept repeating; and every now and then Mrs. Heedman met his blue eyes
gazing into hers with a thoughtful, inquiring sort of look. At last he said, "Mrs. Heedman,
do you think it was God who put it into your heart to bring me here and be so kind to me?"

"Yes, Charlie, I am sure of it."

"Then I'm quite sure that God loves me," said Charlie, energetically. "I can't help crying
when I think about father," as he burst into another flood of tears; "but," he added, "I will
try not to think any more that it was not kind of God to let him be drowned and leave me by
myself. I was thinking so a little while since;" and dropping his voice, he went on, "I want
you, please, to tell me all about it--where father is, and uncle John. I saw them lift some
one out of the water, dead, but I forget what happened after."

Mrs. Heedman told him as gently and as kindly as she could about his father's funeral; who
arranged it, and where he was buried, and that his uncle's body had not been found. "When you
are better, Charlie, we will go and see the grave, and you shall set some flowers on it."

"When I am a man," burst in Charlie, "I shall buy a beautiful tombstone for it."

