The pandan has two kinds of flowers, male and female. The male flowers are arranged in the
form of a spike protected by a modified leaf called the bract. They are white in color, crowded
together on the spike and consist of stamens which hold the pollen. The flowers do not have
the showy colored bracts which forms so prominent a feature in those of many other plants.
The female flowers consist only of the necessary parts. As the pollen occurs in enormous quantities
and as the plants generally grow in groups, it is very probable that some flowers are pollinated
by the wind. The fact that many pandans have very fragrant blossoms makes it almost certain
that in the majority of cases insect pollination takes place. In a few forms that have a very
disagreeable odor, pollination is effected by night flying insects.

The fruit commonly has the general shape of the female inflorescence, but as it matures it
increases greatly in size. Pandans have a composite fruit made up of smaller fruits called
drupes. The most common forms resemble the pineapple with its leafy fruit apex cut off. As
is natural, variations from this type occur. Cylindrical, eggshaped, jackfruit-like forms are
quite common. The largest may be 60 cm. long and weigh 25 kilos, the smallest only 7 cm. in
length and 60 grams in weight. The fruit may occur solitary at the end of a branch, or in groups.
The color is green, though some species change to a bright red before maturity is reached.
The fruit may have drupes ranging from 12 mm. to 14 mm. in length and these may contain one
seed or a number of seeds. At maturity the drupes separate and the fruit falls apart. If the
plant occurs along the water, the seeds, when liberated, float about until they rest in a suitable
place for germination.

Uses of Pandans.

Pandans are valued chiefly for their strong fibrous leaves, which are woven into mats, bags,
and hats. Unless specially prepared, the soft plant tissue between the harder leaf fibers becomes
dry and dirty and breaks in time; hence the ordinary pandan bag or mat can not be considered
a durable article. However, when treated to a boiling process or when rolled, as explained
for sabutan and the pandan of Majayjay, the leaves yield straw which is stronger and more durable
than most palm or sedge straw used for the same purposes.

Pandan mats are important articles of domestic commerce in Malaysia, as it is estimated that
four-fifths of the total population use them for sleeping purposes. In all places except where
palms, like the buri or sedges occur, they yield the most suitable and most easily prepared
mat material. Generally the whole leaf is utilized after removing the marginal and midrib spines.
The coarsest mats are used in drying out copra, cacao beans, paddy, and such products. Pandan
mats are made and used widely in the Philippines.

Formerly, before gunny sacks came into general use, coffee was packed in pandan bags and where
pandans did not grow they were introduced and cultivated for that purpose. Even to-day bags
from pandan play an important part in transporting sugar, coffee, and other tropical products
in and around southern Asia. Few pandan bags are made in the Philippines in comparison with
the enormous quantity of bayons woven of buri straw and used to contain domestic rice and export
sugar.

Pandans are used extensively for making hats in the Philippines as well as in other parts of
the world. In several islands of the Pacific very fine ones are woven from straw consisting
of the whole leaf cut into strips. In the Loochoo Islands imitation Panama hats of great strength
are woven from the skin of a pandan, bleached and rolled into a straw. In the Philippines numerous
varieties of pandan hats are produced, varying in grade from the fine and expensive sabutan
to the coarse pandan. [11]

In some other places, as Burma, pandan leaves are woven or sewed into sails. In southern India
they are utilized as umbrella covering. If no stronger material is obtainable, the leaves are
placed on roofs as thatching, but they do not seem to lend themselves well to that purpose.
In countries where they grow, they are often used instead of twine or made into ropes or hunting
nets, or into drag ropes for fishing nets. They are said to be excellent paper-making material.
In some islands the fibers are separated from the leaf and used by the inhabitants in the manufacture
of belts and aprons.

The wood of the tree pandans is too spongy and soft to make a good material for the construction
of houses. Still, on small islands, such as the Coral and Marshall Islands, the natives construct
their huts from pandan wood. Generally, it is used only for rough, temporary work. In some
localities the soft interior part is removed to make water pipes. Again, because of its lightness,
the wood is used by the people on the many islands of the Pacific to buoy their fishing nets.

Pandan roots are employed for various purposes. If sufficiently thin they are used, after being
cleaned, for making baskets. The roots may also be pounded out, cleaned and made into brushes
for painting or whitewashing houses. They are sometimes so employed in the Philippines. They
are also used for cordage. A medicinal oil is sometimes obtained from them.

The flowers of some pandans, especially those of Pandanus tectorius, are extremely fragrant.
This plant is the most widely distributed of the pandans and is the most frequent pandan found
along the seacoast and in low altitudes. Some botanists claim that the male flowers of this
species have the sweetest odor known among plants. So powerful is their fragrance that by it
sailors can often tell the presence of land before they actually see it. The natives in some
places use the flowers in making an aromatic water, or, by distillation, a volatile oil, known
as keura oil, which is used medicinally for rheumatism.

Certain pandan fruit is extremely oily and serves at times as a substitute for butter. The
sap has the taste of sweet apples and is relished by the inhabitants in many islands. In some
places it is even made into fruit jam.

The very young leaves, especially those surrounding the flowers, are eaten raw or cooked, and
constitute an important article of diet when a famine sweeps India.

Kinds of Pandans.

The Common Seashore Pandan.

In a walk of half a mile or, at most, a mile along the beach of any of the seacoast provinces
in the Philippines, one is almost sure to come across Pandanus tectorius. A map showing the
distribution of this pandan would therefore be practically an outline map of the Islands. The
species does not grow in nipa swamps, though immediately back of them it will be found well
established. Neither could one expect to find it in localities where the cliffs come down abruptly
to the sea, permitting only the existence of vegetable life of the lowest form.

Pandan is its usual name in the Philippines. In Zambales it is called "panglan" or "panglan
babai." Another name is "pangdan."

The stem is not very strong, and reaches a height of from 3 to 6 meters. It is generally supported
by aerial roots. The leaves are of medium thickness, on the average 1.35 m. long and 6 cm.
wide. They are provided with strong sharp spines about 5 mm. in length. These are curved forward
and are as much as one centimeter, or a little more, apart. The spines on the under surface
of the midrib are shorter and farther apart, but bend in the same direction. The male flowers
form a spike and these are surrounded by very fragrant leaves called spathes. The fruit is
20 cm. long, 18 cm. wide, and contains from 50 to 80 drupes, each about 5.5 cm. long and 2.5
to 3 cm. wide. The upper half of the drupes are free but close together. There are small furrows
on the tops of the drupes, rather deep but not very distinct. When ripe the fruit has a fine
red color and the drupes fall from the head.

Pandanus tectorius is of considerable importance in nearly all parts of the world where it
grows, and it is devoted to most of the uses already noted for pandans in general. In certain
places, large industries are founded on it. In India, the leaves are cut every second year
and made into large bags. Hats are produced from it in the Pacific Islands, those from the
Hawaiian group being especially well known. It is probable that the imitation Panama hats of
the Loochoo Islands are also woven from a material (raffia) prepared from the common pandan.
In the Marshall Islands it is recorded that forty varieties of this species have been evolved
in the course of planting and cultivation for industrial purposes.

From the information submitted with the specimens received in the Bureau of Education, it is
to be judged that the economic importance of the common pandan in the Philippines is of but
little consequence. Though widely used, no large or even local industries are based upon it.
A scattering production of hats, mats, and bags is reported in Abra, Union, Zambales, Mindoro,
Bulacan, Rizal, Batangas, Sorsogon, Iloilo, Antique, Oriental Negros, Cebu, Leyte, and Sorsogon
provinces. Near Badoc, Ilocos Norte, and along the Abra border the Tinguian people make mats
from an upland variety for local trade. In Balayan, Batangas, the leaves are used for thatching.
In Surigao they are also made into baskets. In most processes the preparation of the straw
consists of cutting the leaves into strips and drying them. In Zambales, however, it is reported
that the leaves are flattened, pressed, split, and rolled. In Mindoro, they are soaked in water
and dried in the sun before being cut into straw. It is probable that much better material
could be prepared from this pandan if such processes as are used in the making of sabutan straw
and straw from the Majayjay pandan were followed.

Judging from the results obtained in other countries, it would seem that if suckers of the
common pandan were taken, in the districts in which it grows, planted, and cultivated, varieties
would result which would be much better adapted for industrial purposes than the parent stock.
Indeed, it is probable that sabutan, the Philippine pandan of greatest economic importance,
is a variety which is the result of generations of planting, still closely resembling P. tectorius
but differing from it in its leaves, which are thinner, longer, of finer texture and of greater
strength. It is possible also that sarakat, the economic pandan of the Bangui Peninsula, Ilocos
Norte, is a variety of P. tectorius.

Varieties of the Common Pandan.

Sabutan.

Botanical.--It is a question among botanists whether the pandan known as sabutan is a variety
of the common sea-shore pandan (P. tectorius) or whether it has sufficient distinctive characteristics
to entitle it to be considered as a separate species (P. sabotan). Botanists have not as yet
succeeded in securing a fruit of this pandan, which could settle the question, and it is very
doubtful whether the fruit will ever be found. [12] Prof. Ugolino Martelli of Florence, Italy,
an authority on pandans, considers sabutan to be Pandanus tectorius var. sinensis. This classification
is for the present accepted, as most evidence is in favor of such determination and in this
paper sabutan is therefore considered to be a variety of the common pandan, the chief change
in which, through generations of planting, has been in the production of a leaf stronger, thinner,
and of finer texture than that of the parent stock.

The sabutan plant is never found growing wild, though after it has once been started and rooted
it will endure neglect and even abandonment. It produces better and finer leaves, however,
if it receives some care and attention. In the towns of Tanay and Pililla, Rizal Province,
and in Mabitac, Laguna Province, and in all the towns along the lake shore as far as Paete,
the suckers of the plant are set out in small plots of ground surrounding the houses of the
people. These form patches which in several years (depending mostly on soil conditions) yield
pandan leaves large and fine enough to be used in the manufacture of hats and mats. The ideal
location for sabutan is along the banks of streams where it can get the benefit of the light
shade of bamboo or plants that happen to grow in the vicinity. Ordinarily, good results are
obtained by planting the suckers of sabutan in a loose and moist, but well drained, soil. Plants
are set out one meter apart in each direction, as they spread considerably. They need some
shade, especially when young, but not the heavy shade of an abacá or banana grove.

The plant grows to be from 2 to 4 meters high. The leaves are fine in texture, about 2 meters
long and as wide as 6 centimeters. Spines occur on the margins and on the under surface of
the midrib. The male inflorescence procured from Tanay by the Bureau of Education is similar
in appearance to that of Pandanus tectorius and is about 27 centimeters long. At varying distances
on the flower stalk are leaves (bracts), thin and fine, from 10 to 24 centimeters long and
with fine spines on margins and midrib. The flowers have a pleasant, though not very strong, odor.

Status of the sabutan mat industry.--As an industry, the weaving of sabutan mats is confined
to the towns of Tanay and Pililla, in the Province of Rizal. The beginnings of this industry
go back beyond the memory of the oldest inhabitants or even of their parents. It is probable
that, as the people state, mat weaving has been carried on ever since the towns were founded.
Tanay is the older of the two and it would seem (though reliable historical data of this kind
are difficult to obtain) that the town was the first to engage in sabutan mat weaving and is
probably the mother of all the sabutan industries carried on around Laguna de Bay.

The present condition of the mat-weaving industry of these two towns, however, is precarious;
it appears to be gradually dying out. The fabrication of sabutan hats has been introduced from
Mabitac, Laguna Province, into Pililla, with the result that the younger generation is entirely
engaged in making hats, and the relatively small number of mats produced is being woven by
the older women who have not cared to learn the new art. As yet no hats are made in Tanay,
but the work is being taught in the schools and from conversation with people of the town it
is judged that they are becoming interested also.

The disappearance of the sabutan mat industry would be very unfortunate, for the products are
the finest samples of the mat weaver's art produced in the Philippines. The mats are of fine
straw; the natural gray of sabutan is pleasing; the designs used are good; and the colors are
usually well combined. The favorite patterns consist of heavy plaids with some of the stripes
containing sub-patterns produced by floating straws; the simplest ones have narrow border designs
in straight lines. The most expensive mats are decorated with embroidered designs. The combination
of colors in these is sometimes not pleasing and the designs themselves are not of special
merit. However, if better ones are substituted, these mats should be excellent for a foreign
trade demanding expensive articles of this nature. Unlike most Philippine mat industries, this
one has not as yet been affected by coal tar dyes, and only vegetable dyes, found locally in
the town or in the forests, are employed. The straw dyes very well and as a consequence the
colors produced are even throughout the mat; nor have any of the shades that brilliant effect
or "off color" which is so distasteful in certain fibers. The colors obtained are only fairly
fast in the light, however, and it is probable that the new coal tar dyes will be faster and
cheaper. In point of durability, sabutan mats would be superior to all others produced in the
Islands if woven of double straws. In price they now vary from forty centavos to thirty pesos,
the ordinary ones bringing from P1.50 to P2.50.

If the industry is to be preserved intact, however, something must be done to give it vitality,
for the weavers know from experience of neighboring towns that more money can be made from
weaving hats than in the fabrication of mats, and they will naturally change to the more remunerative
article. Unlike most other weaving industries, the craft has not as yet been organized in Tanay.
The production of mats has been more or less haphazard, with but little supervision by any
person resembling the broker usually connected with household industries. The weaver on completing
a mat sells it in the market or to some storekeeper. Up to the present time, the chief trade
in these mats has been at Antipolo in May during the "romeria" or annual pilgrimage to the
shrine of the Virgin of Antipolo. Certain persons in Tanay have made it a practice to gather
up a store of mats and take them to Antipolo for sale there during the fiesta. A few of them
are on sale in Manila and in neighboring provinces. Of late, however, persons have appeared
who are taking up the industry more thoroughly as brokers and it is to be hoped that the workers
will be organized into some better system for production than now exists. There is a large
opportunity not only for supervision but also for division of labor. At present the men of
the house cut the leaves, and each weaver (all the weavers are women) carries out the rest
of the process. There would be a considerable saving of time if certain persons devoted themselves
to the preparation of the gray straw, and the dyeing were left entirely to certain other workers.
In this way the weavers of the mats would be engaged only in the actual fabrication of the
article and much time would be saved to them. [13]

Planting, maturing, and yield of sabutan.--The plants from which the straw mats at Tanay are
made are set out in plots near the houses of the workers. The suckers are planted in April
at the beginning of the rainy season, and, while it is always stated that straw prepared from
the leaves grown in the shade is best for weaving, yet the plants are never intentionally set
out in the shade but are planted wherever an unoccupied plot of ground is obtainable. As a
matter of fact, the patches to be seen in the sabutan towns grow in a semi-shade such as one
would expect to find in yards where the usual ornamental and fruit trees and banana plants
grow. Much of the sabutan is in the sun from morning to night; some is shaded during all or
part of the day. The suckers mature leaves in the third year [14] but these are cut off and
thrown away as useless and it is not until the fourth year that the lower leaves can be stripped
into straw. Harvest takes place every four months, five or six leaves being obtained from a
plant at each cutting. The plants are never irrigated but it is to be noted that the soil around
Laguna de Bay is very moist and that the water table is close to the surface with a good seepage
from the hills which are near the shore. It is probable that the plants differ in their production
of leaves because some have many more branches than others and the climatic and soil conditions
affect the yield.

Preparation of the straw.--The best straw is prepared during the dry season, because at this
time there is sufficient sunshine to produce a good colored material. As a consequence the
workers prepare a large quantity at that season and store it in or under their houses, wrapped
in mats.

The leaves used are about 2 meters in length and 6 cm. in width. The central thorns on the
back of the leaves are removed by cutting away the midrib. Two lengths about an inch in width
are thus produced from which the outer rows of thorns may or may not be removed, according
to custom. The lengths thus obtained are left in the sunshine and wind for about half a day
to render them more flexible, after which they are cut into straws. For this purpose there
is used an instrument consisting of a narrow wooden handle about 2 1/2 cm. wide at the base,
into which narrow sharp teeth, usually of steel, are set. Brass and even hard woods can be
used for teeth. The point of the segment being cut off, the base is grasped in one hand, the
inside of the segment being turned toward the operator. The comb-like instrument is forced
into it about 4 cm. from the end of the base and the teeth are held against the first finger
by pressure of the thumb. The leaf length is then drawn up by the other hand and is cut into
straws depending in width upon the fineness of the comb used. If the leaves are too young they
will break in this process. The stripped segments are then usually tied up into bundles as
large around as the fist, and hung in some shaded place exposed to the wind. The length of
time occupied by this process varies. In some places it is omitted, though it seems to be always
carried out in Tanay. The bundles are then undone and the worker, holding the uncut base of
each length in one hand, runs the straw between his fingers and the sharp edged ruler-like
piece of bamboo held in the other. This is done several times and results in the removal of
considerable moisture, the prevention of wrinkling, and greater pliability of the straw.

There are several variations in the processes followed for boiling sabutan. In the Province
of Laguna a fistful of the stripped lengths with bases still attached are rolled up into a
bundle and placed in fresh water in order to remove the coloring matter--in some places in
clear, running river water, in other places in a can of clean, fresh water--for about twenty-four
hours; the water is changed several times. In the last method the process is discontinued when
the water remains clear. Bundles are then placed in cold vinegar, water or lemon water to which
green tamarind fruit has been added to make the color of the straw lighter and to toughen it;
the water is brought to a boil. Bamboo is used as fuel, as that fire is not so hot as a wood
fire. The length of time required for cooking differs. One good authority states that it should
be stopped when the odor of sabutan can no longer be detected in the vapor, which occurs after
about fifteen minutes boiling. This authority also states that the straw should be removed
when it takes on a reddish hue. Many women put the straw into clear boiling water to which
nothing has been added. After this process the straw is allowed to cool, is washed several
times in clean, fresh water and is spread in the sun to dry, whereupon it assumes a gray color.
If there is no sun the cool straw must be kept in fresh water which is changed every twelve
hours until the sun appears. If a greenish shade is obtained the process has not been correctly
carried out. Straw from dark green, thick, old leaves, or from those grown in the sun, is often
reddish brown in color.

The boiling processes noted are those used in the preparation of straw for mats. The process
followed in Tanay has been described by Mr. Amado Simpoco, principal of the Tanay Central School.
The stripped lengths, after being wilted and drawn over the sharp edged piece of bamboo, are
made up into fist bundles, tied at the middle and placed in a large copper pot 61 cm. in diameter
and 84 cm. in depth and containing about 25 bundles. The pot is filled with water and the sabutan
is boiled for 24 hours, care being taken that the straw is always covered. After boiling, the
bundles are removed and untied and the strips are hung in the shade or in the house to cool;
afterwards they are placed in the river for a day and are then washed carefully and dried thoroughly
in the sun. The gray straw thus obtained is stored in bundles, still attached to the uncut
bases, and is left in the air for three or four nights before it is woven into mats.

Dyeing sabutan.--Mr. Simpoco has also made a careful study of the methods used in Tanay in
dyeing sabutan straw, and the results of his efforts are presented here.

Red orange: For the production of red orange straw the gray material, prepared as outlined
above, is first treated by steeping in water containing kolis leaves and twigs. The leaves
and chopped twigs are pounded in a mortar and are placed together with the sabutan in a large
receptacle capable of containing from 25 to 30 bundles, filled with water. The material is
allowed to remain in the receptacle for four days. Early in the morning of the fifth day the
straw is removed and hung in a shaded place until dry and is made up into bundles tied tightly
at the larger end.

The dye fluid is carefully prepared. Chips of sappan are boiled in a large copper pot for one
day. A quantity of turmeric roots and annatto seeds are pounded separately in mortars until
they are reduced to a very fine state. These are then separately treated with water and pressed,
the result being a turmeric water and an annatto water. These two are mixed and poured into
the boiling sappan. After about 25 minutes the bundles of sabutan are placed in the pot and
the whole is allowed to boil until every part of the fiber is uniformly colored. After having
been boiled sufficiently, the bundles are removed and placed in a large basket, later to be
dried in the shade. They are left in the night air for three or four nights and are then rolled
up in coarse mats. The shades procured vary with the proportions of the dye materials used.
Some are a decided orange, others are light yellow.

Yellow: Yellow straw is produced in the same manner, using turmeric and annatto only.

Red: In the production of red straw the bundles are treated with kolis leaves in the same manner
as in the preliminary process for red-orange straw. In a pot capable of holding 25 fist bundles
of sabutan, four gantas [15] of finely chopped sappan are placed. Over this are placed 15 bundles
of the straw, which in turn is covered with one ganta of chopped sappan. The remaining 10 bundles
are then added and covered with still another ganta of sappan. The pot is filled with water
and set over a fire for from twelve to fifteen hours. Care is taken that the bundles are always
kept under the water and that all parts of the material are uniformly colored. The loss by
evaporation is counterbalanced by adding water from time to time. When well colored, the straw
is removed from the pot and placed in a large basket for a day and is then hung in the sunshine
to be dried. It should be allowed to remain in the night air; when thoroughly dried it is rolled
in coarse mats.

Black: Black straw, a warm dark gray, is prepared from the red material. Buds of bananas, leaves
of kabling, talisay, camagon, and the castor plant are pounded in a mortar and are mixed with
fine particles of black clay such as can be obtained from rice paddies. Sappan water, made
by boiling sappan chips, is then added to the mixture and the entire mass is placed in a large
receptacle for a day. Red straw is put into this mixture and allowed to remain for two days.
It is removed on the third day and again returned to the mixture on the fourth day. On the
fifth day the straw is finally removed and placed in the sun, being kept in the air at night.

