"True, too true," murmured our President, giving me a look of gratitude. "I remember how the
men of this country cried out against us a few years ago because they could not understand
why we send flowers and tender letters to a poor, handsome negro who had first outraged and
then murdered a woman."

"Yes," I said, "and no doubt they will pretend not to understand our indignation against this
man Gorky, who thinks the customs of his own country justify him his terrible conduct. But
we must be careful how we word our condemnation of this man lest he should somehow learn of
what our Supreme Court has so wickedly done and retort on us that these, our wealthiest and
most respected citizens, not being legally divorced and hence not being legally married again,
are no better than he and his so-called wife."

The ladies looked at each other in consternation. Evidently the thought had not suggested itself
to them. Mrs. X. Y. Z. Asterbilt (née Clewbel) rose and in a voice choked with emotion said:

"Speaking for myself as well as for some of the other ladies, members of this organization,
who are temporarily déclassée, so to speak, by this decree of the Supreme Court, I beg that
you will do nothing to call undue attention to us, until we have arranged matters so that our
wealth will enable us to have that legislation which is necessary to make us respectable women
again."

"Is it true," I asked, "that you have sent an invitation to Madame Andreieva to meet you to
discuss the steps to be taken to reinstate yourselves?"

"It is true, but the extraordinary creature returned word that as a lady of good standing in
her own country she did not feel that she could afford to associate with women whom the courts
of this country held to be living in shame."

"Did you ever!" cried Mrs. Blanderocks. "But it shows us that we must be careful. Mrs. Grant,
you have had experience in such matters, suppose you retire and draw up a set of resolutions
that will not expose us to the ribald and unseemly comments of the light-minded."

Of course I accepted the task, fully realizing its gravity, and following is the resolution
I brought back with me:

"Whereas, Maxim Gorky, recognized in the world of letters as a man of genius, and in the world
at large as a man of great soul, high purpose and pure nature, having come to this country
accompanied by a lady whom he considers and treats as his wife; and

"Whereas, The wealthy, and therefore the better classes, tumbled all over themselves in order
to exploit him as a lion; and

"Whereas, He had not the wisdom and craft and sense of puritanical respectability to pretend
that he did not know the lady he believed his wife, and to whom he believes himself united
by a law higher than that of man; and

"Whereas, He was guileless enough to believe he had come to a free country where purity of
motive and of conduct would take precedence of hollow and rotten forms; and

"Whereas, He did not know that the American people practise polygamy secretly, while condemning
it in words, and that the United States Senate has been nearly two years in pretending to try
to find a polygamist in their midst; and

"Whereas, He was so injudicious as to come here with a defective divorce just at a time when
our Supreme Court was making the divorce of some of us, the gilded favorites of fortune, defective;
and

"Whereas, He had the audacity to proclaim himself a Socialist, which is the same thing as saying
that he is opposed to special privilege, and is in favor of the abolition of property in land
and in the tools of labor--in other and plainer words, is against Us; and

"Whereas, He is only a foreigner, anyhow, and no longer available as a toy and plaything for
us; therefore be it

"Resolved, That this man, Gorky, be used as a means of proclaiming our extraordinary virtue
to the world at large, as a robber cries stop thief in order to direct attention from himself;
that accordingly he be treated with the utmost outrageous discourtesy and hounded from hotel
to hotel on the ground that such places by no chance harbor men and women unless they have
passed through the matrimonial mill; that we withdraw our patronage from the revolution in
Russia--not being seriously interested in it anyhow--and that we will show our contempt for
revolutionary patriots by entertaining the rottenest grand duke in Russia if only he will come
over to us, bringing his whole harem if he wish; that he is a reproach to us while he remains
in this country, and that it is the sense of this great organization that he and the lady who
is his wife in the highest sense shall be deported."

The resolution was not passed.

I have been expelled from the association.

COMRADE.

By MAXIM GORKY.

Translated from the French translation by S. PERSKY, published in "L'Aurore," Paris.

ALL in that city was strange, incomprehensible. Churches in great number pointed their many-tinted
steeples toward the sky, in gleaming colors; but the walls and the chimneys of the factories
rose still higher, and the temples were crushed between the massive façades of commercial houses,
like marvelous flowers sprung up among the ruins, out of the dust. And when the bells called
the faithful to prayer, their brazen sounds, sliding along the iron roofs, vanished, leaving
no traces in the narrow gaps which separated the houses.

They were always large, and sometimes beautiful, these dwellings. Deformed people, ciphers,
ran about like gray mice in the tortuous streets from morning till evening; and their eyes,
full of covetousness, looked for bread or for some distraction; other men placed at the crossways
watched with a vigilant and ferocious air, that the weak should, without murmuring, submit
themselves to the strong. The strong were the rich: everyone believed that money alone gives
power and liberty. All wanted power because all were slaves. The luxury of the rich begot the
envy and hate of the poor; no one knew any finer music than the ring of gold; that is why each
was the enemy of his neighbor, and cruelty reigned mistress.

Sometimes the sun shone over the city, but life therein was always wan, and the people like
shadows. At night they lit a mass of joyous lights; and then famishing women went out into
the streets to sell their caresses to the highest bidder. Everywhere floated an odor of victuals,
and the sullen and voracious look of the people grew. Over the city hovered a groan of misery,
stifled, without strength to make itself heard.

Every one led an irksome, unquiet life; a general hostility was the rule. A few citizens only
considered themselves just, but these were the most cruel, and their ferocity provoked that
of the herd. All wanted to live; and no one knew or could follow freely the pathway of his
desires; like an insatiable monster, the Present enveloped in its powerful and vigorous arms
the man who marched toward the future, and in that slimy embrace sapped away his strength.
Full of anguish and perplexity, the man paused, powerless before the hideous aspect of this
life: with its thousands of eyes, infinitely sad in their expression, it looked into his heart,
asking him for it knew not what,--and then the radiant images of the future died in his soul;
a groan out of the powerlessness of the man mingled in the discordant chorus of lamentations
and tears from poor human creatures tormented by life.

Tedium and inquietude reigned everywhere, and sometimes terror. And the dull and somber city,
the stone buildings atrociously lined one against the other, shutting in the temples, were
for men a prison, rebuffing the rays of the sun. And the music of life was smothered by the
cry of suffering and rage, by the whisper of dissimulated hate, by the threatening bark of
cruelty, by the voluptuous cry of violence.

In the sullen agitation caused by trial and suffering, in the feverish struggle of misery,
in the vile slime of egoism, in the subsoils of the houses wherein vegetated Poverty, the creator
of Riches, solitary dreamers full of faith in Man, strangers to all, prophets of seditions,
moved about like sparks issued from some far-off hearthstone of justice. Secretly they brought
into these wretched holes tiny fertile seeds of a doctrine simple and grand;--and sometimes
rudely, with lightnings in their eyes, and sometimes mild and tender, they sowed this clear
and burning truth in the sombre hearts of these slaves, transformed into mute, blind instruments
by the strength of the rapacious, by the will of the cruel. And these sullen beings, these
oppressed ones, listened without much belief to the music of the new words,--the music for
which their hearts had long been waiting. Little by little they lifted up their heads, and
tore the meshes of the web of lies wherewith their oppressors had enwound them. In their existence,
made up of silent and contained rage, in their hearts envenomed by numberless wrongs, in their
consciences encumbered by the dupings of the wisdom of the strong, in this dark and laborious
life, all penetrated with the bitterness of humiliation, had resounded a simple word:

Comrade.

It was not a new word; they had heard it and pronounced it themselves; but until then it had
seemed to them void of sense, like all other words dulled by usage, and which one may forget
without losing anything. But now this word, strong and clear, had another sound; a soul was
singing in it,--the facets of it shone brilliant as a diamond. The wretched accepted this word,
and at first uttered it gently, cradling it in their hearts like a mother rocking her new-born
child and admiring it. And the more they searched the luminous soul of the word, the more fascinating
it seemed to them.

"Comrade," said they.

And they felt that this word had come to unite the whole world, to lift all men up to the summits
of liberty and bind them with new ties, the strong ties of mutual respect, respect for the
liberties of others in the name of one's own liberty.

When this word had engraved itself upon the hearts of the slaves, they ceased to be slaves;
and one day they announced their transformation to the city in this great human formula:

I WILL NOT.

Then life was suspended, for it is they who are the motor force of life, they and no other.
The water supply stopped, the fire went out, the city was plunged in darkness. The masters
began to tremble like children. Fear invaded the hearts of the oppressors. Suffocating in the
fumes of their own dejection, disconcerted and terrified by the strength of the revolt, they
dissimulated the rage which they felt against it.

The phantom of Famine rose up before them, and their children wailed plaintively in the darkness.
The houses and the temples, enveloped in shadow, melted into an inanimate chaos of iron and
stone; a menacing silence filled the streets with a clamminess as of death; life ceased, for
the force which created it had become conscious of itself; and enslaved humanity had found
the magic and invincible word to express its will; it had enfranchised itself from the yoke;
with its own eyes it had seen its might,--the might of the creator.

These days were days of anguish to the rulers, to those who considered themselves the masters
of life; each night was as long as thousands of nights, so thick was the gloom, so timidly
shone the few fires scattered through the city. And then the monster city, created by the centuries,
gorged with human blood, showed itself in all its shameful weakness; it was but a pitiable
mass of stone and wood. The blind windows of the houses looked upon the street with a cold
and sullen air, and out on the highway marched with valiant step the real masters of life.
They, too, were hungry, more than the others perhaps; but they were used to it, and the suffering
of their bodies was not so sharp as the suffering of the old masters of life; it did not extinguish
the fire in their souls. They glowed with the consciousness of their own strength, the presentiment
of victory sparkled in their eyes. They went about in the streets of the city which had been
their narrow and sombre prison, wherein they had been overwhelmed with contempt, wherein their
souls had been loaded with abuse, and they saw the great importance of their work, and thus
was unveiled to them the sacred right they had to become the masters of life, its creators
and its lawgivers.

And the lifegiving word of union presented itself to them with a new face, with a blinding
clearness:

"Comrade."

There among lying words it rang out boldly, as the joyous harbinger of the time to come, of
a new life open to all in the future;--far or near? They felt that it depended upon them whether
they advanced towards liberty or themselves deferred its coming.

The prostitute who, but the evening before, was but a hungry beast, sadly waiting on the muddy
pavement to be accosted by some one who would buy her caresses, the prostitute, too, heard
this word, but was undecided whether to repeat it. A man the like of whom she had never seen
till then approached her, laid his hand upon her shoulder and said to her in an affectionate
tone, "Comrade." And she gave a little embarrassed smile, ready to cry with the joy her wounded
heart experienced for the first time. Tears of pure gaiety shone in her eyes, which, the night
before, had looked at the world with a stupid and insolent expression of a starving animal.
In all the streets of the city the outcasts celebrated the triumph of their reunion with the
great family of workers of the entire world; and the dead eyes of the houses looked on with
an air more and more cold and menacing.

The beggar to whom but the night before an obol was thrown, price of the compassion of the
well-fed, the beggar also heard this word; and it was the first alms which aroused a feeling
of gratitude in his poor heart, gnawed by misery.

A coachman, a great big fellow whose patrons struck him that their blows might be transmitted
to his thin-flanked, weary horse, this man imbruted by the noise of wheels upon the pavement,
said, smiling, to a passer-by: "Well, Comrade!" He was frightened at his own words. He took
the reins in his hands, ready to start, and looked at the passer-by, the joyous smile not yet
effaced from his big face. The other cast a friendly glance at him and answered, shaking his
head: "Thanks, comrade; I will go on foot; I am not going far."

"Ah, the fine fellow!" exclaimed the coachman enthusiastically; he stirred in his seat, winking
his eyes gaily, and started off somewhere with a great clatter.

The people went in groups crowded together on the pavements, and the great word destined to
unite the world burst out more and more often among them, like a spark: "Comrade." A policeman,
bearded, fierce, and filled with the consciousness of his own importance, approached the crowd
surrounding an old orator at the corner of a street, and, after having listened to the discourse,
he said slowly: "Assemblages are interdicted ... disperse...." And after a moment's silence,
lowering his eyes, he added, in a lower tone, "Comrades."

The pride of young combatants was depicted in the faces of those who carried the word in their
hearts, who had given it flesh and blood and the appeal to union; one felt that the strength
they so generously poured into this living word was indestructible, inexhaustible.

Here and there blind troops of armed men, dressed in gray, gathered and formed ranks in silence;
it was the fury of the oppressors preparing to repulse the wave of justice.

And in the narrow streets of the immense city, between the cold and silent walls raised by
the hands of ignored creators, the noble belief in Man and in Fraternity grew and ripened.

"Comrade."--Sometimes in one corner, sometimes in another, the fire burst out. Soon this fire
would become the conflagration destined to enkindle the earth with the ardent sentiment of
kinship, uniting all its peoples; destined to consume and reduce to ashes the rage, hate and
cruelty by which we are mutilated; the conflagration which will embrace all hearts, melt them
into one,--the heart of the world, the heart of beings noble and just;--into one united family
of workers.

In the streets of the dead city, created by slaves, in the streets of the city where cruelty
reigned, faith in humanity and in victory over self and over the evil of the world grew and
ripened. And in the vague chaos of a dull and troubled existence, a simple word, profound as
the heart, shone like a star, like a light guiding toward the future: COMRADE.

ALEXANDER BERKMAN.

By E. G.

ON the 18th of this month the workhouse at Hoboken, Pa., will open its iron gates for Alexander
Berkman. One buried alive for fourteen years will emerge from his tomb. That was not the intention
of those who indicted Berkman. In the kindness of their Christian hearts they saw to it that
he be sentenced to twenty-one years in the penitentiary and one year in the workhouse, hoping
that that would equal a death penalty, only with a slow, refined execution. To achieve the
feat of sending a man to a gradual death, the authorities of Pittsburg at the command of Mammon
trampled upon their much-beloved laws and the legality of court proceedings. These laws in
Pennsylvania called for seven years imprisonment for the attempt to kill, but that did not
satisfy the law-abiding citizen H. C. Frick. He saw to it that one indictment was multiplied
into six. He knew full well that he would meet with no opposition from petrified injustice
and the servile stupidity of the judge and jury before whom Alexander Berkman was tried.

In looking over the events of 1892 and the causes that led up to the act of Alexander Berkman,
one beholds Mammon seated upon a throne built of human bodies, without a trace of sympathy
on its Gorgon brow for the creatures it controls. These victims, bent and worn, with the reflex
of the glow of the steel and iron furnaces in their haggard faces, carry their sacrificial
offerings to the ever-insatiable monster, capitalism. In its greed, however, it reaches out
for more; it neither sees the gleam of hate in the sunken eyes of its slaves, nor can it hear
the murmurs of discontent and rebellion coming forth from their heaving breasts. Yet, discontent
continues until one day it raises its mighty voice and demands to be heard:

Human conditions! higher pay! fewer hours in the inferno at Homestead, the stronghold of the
"philanthropist" Carnegie!

He was far away, however, enjoying a much needed rest from hard labor, in Scotland, his native
country. Besides he knew he had left a worthy representative in H. C. Frick, who could take
care that the voice of discontent was strangled in a fitting manner,--and Mr. Carnegie had
judged rightly.

Frick, who was quite experienced in the art of disposing of rebellious spirits (he had had
a number of them shot in the coke regions in 1890), immediately issued an order for Pinkerton
men, the vilest creatures in the human family, who are engaged in the trade of murder for $2
per day.

The strikers declared that they would not permit these men to land, but money and power walk
shrewd and cunning paths. The Pinkerton blood-hounds were packed into a boat and were to be
smuggled into Homestead by way of water in the stillness of night. The amalgamated steel workers
learned of this contemptible trick and prepared to meet the foe. They gathered by the shores
of the Monongahela River armed with sticks and stones, but ere they had time for an attack
a violent fire was opened from the boat that neared the shore, and within an hour eleven strikers
lay dead from the bullets of Frick's hirelings.

Every beast is satisfied when it has devoured its prey,--not so the human beast. After the
killing of the strikers H. C. Frick had the families of the dead evicted from their homes,
which had been sold to the workingmen on the instalment plan and at the exorbitant prices usual
in such cases.

Out of these homes the wives and children of the men struggling for a living wage were thrown
into the street and left without shelter. There was one exception only. A woman who had given
birth to a baby two days previous and who, regardless of her delicate condition, defended her
home and succeeded in driving the sheriff from the house with a poker.

Everyone stood aghast at such brutality, at such inhumanity to man, in this great free republic
of ours. It seemed as if the cup of human endurance had been filled to the brim, as if out
of the ranks of the outraged masses some one would rise to call those to account who had caused
it all.

And some one rose in mighty indignation against the horrors of wealth and power. It was Alexander
Berkman!

A youth with a vision of a grand and beautiful world based upon freedom and harmony, and with
boundless sympathy for the suffering of the masses. One whose deep, sensitive nature could
not endure the barbarisms of our times. Such was the personality of the man who staked his
life as a protest against tyranny and iniquity; and such has Alexander Berkman remained all
these long, dreary fourteen years.

Nothing was left undone to crush the body and spirit of this man; but sorrow and suffering
make for sacred force, and those who have never felt it will fail to realize how it is that
Alexander Berkman will return to those who loved and esteemed him, to those whom he loved so
well, and still loves so well,--the oppressed and down-trodden millions--with the same intense,
sweet spirit and with a clearer and grander vision of a world of human justice and equality.

UT SEMENTEM FECERIS, ITA METES.

By VOLTAIRINE DE CLEYRE

(To the Czar, on a woman, a political prisoner, being flogged to death in Siberia.)

     How many drops must gather to the skies
       Before the cloud-burst comes, we may not know;
       How hot the fires in under hells must glow
     Ere the volcano's scalding lavas rise,
       Can none say; but all wot the hour is sure!
       Who dreams of vengeance has but to endure!
     He may not say how many blows must fall,
       How many lives be broken on the wheel,
     How many corpses stiffen 'neath the pall,
       How many martyrs fix the blood-red seal;
     But certain is the harvest time of Hate!
       And when weak moans, by an indignant world
       Re-echoed, to a throne are backward hurled,
     Who listens hears the mutterings of Fate!

THE WHITE TERROR.

I.--The Flogging of a Student.

(BY AN EYE-WITNESS--M. KIRILOV, OF THE "RUSS.")

December 18th. Near the Gorbaty Bridge, Moscow. A group of soldiers of various arms and an
officer. Great animation, jokes, cries, gesticulation, contented faces. A student has fallen
into their hands.

"Well, boys, make room," says the officer. "The performance begins!"

"Take off your trousers," says the officer, turning to the student. The latter is pale, silent,
and does not move.

"Trousers off!" cries the officer, in rage; but the student, without a drop of blood in his
face, whiter than the snow, does not move, but only looks around in silence with horrified
eyes and meets everywhere the triumphant faces of his tormentors. He drops his head and remains
silent as before.

