When Lola Montez--for all that she had a wedding-ring on her finger, she still stuck to the
name--arrived there with her new husband, the conditions of life in Grass Valley were a little
primitive. A telegraph service did not exist; and letters were collected and delivered irregularly.
Transport with the outer world was by stage coach and mule and pony express. Whisky had to
come round by Cape Horn; sugar from China; and meat and vegetables from Australia. The fact
was, the early settlers were much too busily employed extracting nuggets and gold dust to concern
themselves with the production of any other commodity.

Mrs. Dora Knapp, a neighbour of Lola Montez in Grass Valley at this period, has contributed
some reminiscences of her life there:

     "We, who knew of her gay career among the royalty and
     nabobs, were astonished that she should have gone to the
     camp. She frequently had letters from titled gentlemen in
     Europe, begging her to come back and live on their rich
     bounty. It was simply because she was weary of splendour and
     fast living that the Countess turned with such fondness to
     life in a mining camp."

To Patrick Hull, however, the attractions of the district were not so obvious. Ink was in his
blood. He wanted to get back to his editorial desk, preferring the throbbing of printing presses
to the rattle of spades and picks and the clanking of drills. Nor did "love in a cottage" appeal
to him. When Lola refused to give up Grass Valley, he developed a fit of sulks and turned to
the whisky bottle for consolation.

Under the circumstances, matrimonial bliss was impossible. Such a life was a cat and dog one.
Its end arrived very soon.

"Lola Montez and her new husband," says the knowledgeable Mrs. Knapp, "had not lived together
more than a few months before trouble began. When two such spirits came together, there was
bound to be a clash. The upshot was that one day Lola pushed Patrick down the stairs, heaved
his grip out of the window and ordered him to quit."

Mr. Hull, who could take a hint as well as any man, did "quit." He did more. He took to his
bed and expired. "In his native state," says a tearful obituary, "he was respected and loved
by a large circle. The family of Manuel Guillen (in whose house he lay), inspired by a sentiment
of genuine benevolence, bestowed upon him all the tender watchfulness due to a beloved son
and brother; and nothing was omitted that promised cure or promoted comfort."

But this was not until some time after he had received his abrupt congé from Lola Montez.

Once more, Lola had drawn a blank in the matrimonial market.

IV

With Adrienne Lecouvreur, Lola Montez must often have asked herself, Que faire au monde sans
aimer? "Living without loving" had no appeal for her. Hence, she was soon credited (or discredited)
with a fresh liaison. This time her choice fell on a German baron, named Kirke, who also happened
to be a doctor. There was a special bond between them, for he had come from Munich, and could
thus awaken memories and tell her of Ludwig, of Fritz Peissner and the other good comrades
of the Alemannia, and of the house in the Barerstrasse where she had once queened it.

"This fourth adventure in matrimony was," says a chronicler, "copiously consummated." An odd
choice of words. But, successful or not, it was short-lived. One fine day the baron took his
gun with him into the forest. He did not return. "Killed in a shooting accident" (a fairly
common occurrence in the Wild West at that period) was the coroner's verdict. As a result,
Lola was once more without a masculine protector.

The position was not devoid of an element of danger, for the district swarmed with lawless
gangs, to whom a woman living by herself was looked upon as fair prey. But Lola was not disturbed.
She had plenty of courage. She knew, too, that the miners had formed themselves into a "guard
of honour," and that it would have gone ill with anybody attempting to molest her. If the diggers
were rough, they were chivalrous.

In response to a general invitation from the camp, Lola more than once gave an exhibition of
her quality as a danseuse. Although the charge for admission was a hundred dollars, the hall
where she appeared was always crammed to the doors. She expanded out, too, in other directions;
and a picturesque account of her life at this period says that she slept under the stars ("canopy
of heaven" was the writer's more poetical way of putting it) and wore woollen underclothing
knitted by herself. Another detail declares that she held a "weekly soirée in her cottage,
attended by the upper circles of the camp, a court of littérateurs and actors and wanderers";
and that among the regular guests were "two nephews of Victor Hugo, a quartet of cashiered
German barons, and a couple of shady French counts." Obviously, a somewhat mixed gathering.
For all this, however, the receptions were "merely convivial assemblies, with champagne and
other wine, served with cake and fruit ad lib, and everyone smoked. The two Hugo neighbours
were always there, as well as a son of Preston Brooks, the South Carolina congressman. A dozen
of us looked forward to attending these salons, which we called 'experience-meetings.' Senator
William M. Stewart, then a young lawyer in Nevada, said he used to count the days between each.
Every song, every story, every scrap of humour or pathos that any of the young men came across
would be preserved for the next gathering. Occasionally, our charming hostess would have a
little fancy-dress affair at the cottage, and, clad in the fluffy and abbreviated garments
she had once worn on the stage, show us that she still remembered her dancing-steps."

When not engaged in these innocent relaxations, Lola would give herself up to other pursuits.
Thus, she hunted and fished and shot, and often made long trips on horseback through the forests
and sage bush. Having a fondness for all sorts of animals, on one such expedition she captured
a bear cub, with which she returned to her cabin and set herself to tame. While thus employed,
she was visited by a wandering violinist, who, falling a victim to her charms, begged a lock
of her hair as a souvenir of the occasion. Thereupon, Lola, always anxious to oblige, struck
a bargain with him. "I have," she said, "a pet grizzly in my orchard. If you will wrestle with
him for three minutes, you shall have enough of my hair to make a bow for your fiddle. Let
me see what you can do." The challenge was accepted; and the amorous violinist, merely stipulating
that the animal should be muzzled, set to work and secured the coveted guerdon.

Something of a risk, perhaps. Still, it would have been a more serious one if Lola had kept
a rattlesnake.

Appearances are deceptive, and Bruin was less domesticated than Lola imagined. One day, pining
perhaps for fresh diet, he grappled with his mistress and bit her hand. The incident attracted
a laureate on the staff of the California Chronicle, who, in Silas Wegg fashion, "dropped into
verse:"

     LOLA AND HER PET

    One day when the season was drizzly,
      And outside amusements were wet,
    Fair Lola paid court to her Grizzly
      And undertook petting her pet.

    But, ah, it was not the Bavarian
      Who softened so under her hand,
    No ermined King octogenarian,
      But Bruin, coarse cub of the land.

    So, all her caresses combatting
      He crushed her white slender hand first,
    Refusing his love to her patting,
      As she had refused hers to Pat!

    Oh, had her pet been him whose glory
      And title were won on the field,
    Less bloodless had ended this story,
      More easy her hand had been Heald!

This doggerel was signed "F.S.", initials which masked the identity of Frank Soule, the editor
of the Chronicle.

V

Never without her dog-whip, Lola took it with her to her cottage in Grass Valley. There she
soon found a use for it. A journalist, in a column account of her career, was ungallant enough
to finish by enquiring "if she were the devil incarnate?" As the simplest method of settling
the problem, "Lola summoned the impertinent scribbler and gave him such a hiding that he had
no doubts left at all."

Shortly afterwards, there was trouble with another representative of the press. This was with
one Henley Shipley, the editor of the Marysville Herald, who, notwithstanding that they were
"regularly attended by the élite of the camp," had described her "Wednesday soirées" as "disgraceful
orgies, inimical to our fair repute." Thereupon, says a sympathiser, the aspersed hostess "took
her whip to him, and handed out a number of stinging and well merited cuts."

The opportunity being too good to miss, the editor of the Sacramento Union set to work and
rushed out a special edition, with a long description of the incident:

     This forenoon our town was plunged into a state of ludicrous
     excitement by the spectacle of Madame Lola Montez rushing
     through Mill Street, with a lady's delicate riding whip in
     one hand and a copy of the Marysville Herald in the other,
     vowing vengeance on "that scoundrel of an editor," etc. She
     met him at the Golden Gate Saloon, a crowd, on the qui
     vive, following in her footsteps. Having struck at him with
     her whip, she then applied woman's best weapon--her tongue.
     Meanwhile, her antagonist kept most insultingly cool. All
     her endeavours being powerless, the "Divine Lola" appealed
     to the miners, but the only response was a burst of
     laughter. Mr. Shipley, the editor, then retired in triumph,
     having, by his calmness, completely worn down his fair
     enemy.

     The immediate cause of the fracas was the appearance of
     sundry articles, copied from the New York Times, referring
     to the "Lola Montez-like insolence, bare-faced hypocrisy,
     and effrontery of Queen Christina of Spain." The entire
     scene was decidedly rich.

One can well imagine it.

Never prepared to accept hostile criticism without a protest, Lola sent her own version of
the occurrence to a rival organ:

     "This morning, November 21," she wrote, "the newspaper was
     handed me as usual. I scanned it over with little interest,
     saw a couple of abusive articles, not mentioning me by name,
     but, as I was afterwards told, had been prepared by the
     clever pen of this great statesman of the future, and
     present able writer, as a climax and extinguisher to all the
     past and future glories of Lola Montez. I wonder if he
     thought I should come down with a cool thousand or two, to
     stock up his fortune and cry 'Grace, Grace!'

     "This is the only attempt at blackmail I have been subjected
     to in California, and I hope it will be the last. On I read
     the paper till I saw my name in good round English, and the
     allusions to my 'bare-faced hypocrisy and insolence.'
     Europe, hear this! Has not the 'hypocrisy' been on the
     other side? What were you thinking of, Alexandra Dumas,
     Beringer, Méry, and all my friends when you told me my fault
     lay in my too great kindness? Shipley has judged me at last
     to be a hypocrite. To avenge you, I, bonnet on head and whip
     in hand--that whip which was never used but on a horse--this
     time to be disgraced by falling on the back of an ASS....
     The spirit of my Irish ancestors (I being three-quarter
     Irish and Spanish and Scotch) took possession of my hand;
     and, on the most approved Tom Sayers principles, I took his,
     on which--thanks to some rings I had--I made a cutting
     impression. This would-be great smiter ended the combat with
     a certain amount of abuse, of which--to do him justice--he
     is a perfect master. Sic transit gloria SHIPLEY! Alas,
     poor Yorick!"

The atmosphere of Grass Valley could scarcely be described as tranquil. Its surface was always
being ruffled; and it was not long before Lola was again embroiled in a collision with one
of her neighbours. This time she had a passage at arms with a Methodist minister in the camp,
the Rev. Mr. Wilson, who, with a sad lack of Christian charity, informed his flock that this
new member among them was "a feminine devil devoid of shame, and that the 'Spider Dance' in
her repertoire was an outrage." There were limits to clerical criticism. This was clearly one
of them. As she could not take her whip to a clergyman, she took herself. "Resolved to teach
the Rev. Wilson a lesson, she called on him in her dancing dress, while he was conducting a
confirmation class."

"Without," says a member of the gathering, "any preliminaries beyond saying 'Good afternoon,'
she proceeded to execute the dance before the astonished gaze of the company. Then turning
to the minister, she said, 'The next time you think fit to make me and this dance a subject
for a pulpit discourse, perhaps you will know better what you are talking about.' She then
took her departure, before the reverend gentleman could sufficiently collect his senses to
say or do anything."

But, notwithstanding these breaks in its monotony, Lola felt that she was not really adapted
to the routine of Grass Valley. Once more, the theatre called her. Answering the call, she
went back to it. But on the return journey she did not take Patrick Hull. She also shed the
name he had given her, and resumed that of Countess of Landsfeld.

"It looks better on the bills," she said, when she discussed plans for a prospective tour.

The Grass Valley Telegraph gave her a good "send off" in a fulsome column; and the miners presented
her with a "farewell gift" in the form of a nugget. "Rough, like ourselves," said their spokesman,
"but the genuine article."

CHAPTER XV

"DOWN UNDER"

I

This time Lola was going further afield. A long way further. Two continents had already been
exploited. Now she would discover what a fresh one held.

Her plan was to leave the Stars and Stripes for the Southern Cross. As an initial step, "she
sold her jewels for 20,000 dollars to the madam of a fashionable brothel." Having thus secured
adequate funds, she assembled a number of out-of-work actors and actresses and engaged them
to accompany her on a twelve months' tour in Australia. Except for Josephine Fiddes (who was
afterwards to understudy Adah Isaacs Menken, of Mazeppa renown) and, perhaps, her leading man,
Charles Follard, they were of a distinctly inferior calibre.

The departure from California was duly notified in a paragraph sent round the press:

"We beg to inform our readers and the public generally that on June 6 the celebrated Lola Montez
left San Francisco, at the head of a theatrical troupe of exceptional talent, bound for distant
Australia. The public in the Antipodes may confidently look forward to a rare treat."

The voyage across the Pacific being in a sailing vessel, was a longish one and occupied nearly
ten weeks from start to finish. However, anchor was dropped at last; and on August 23, 1855,
a "colossal attraction" was announced in "Lola Montez in Bavaria" at the Victoria Theatre,
Sydney. There, thanks to the interest aroused by her exploits in other parts of the world,
the newcomer was assured of a good reception.

