True to his Colours The Life that Wears Best

By Reverend Theodore P Wilson

I cannot truthfully say that I enjoyed transcribing this book.  That might be to say that Reverend
Wilson would not approve of me, for I enjoy a beer or a glass of wine occasionally, but never
to excess.  But Wilson was, as ever, fulminating against the Demon Drink, that is to say, against
the Demon that can take over people's lives, and bring misery to their wives and children,
for this does happen, even to this day.

There is a story behind all this, but the long sermons pervade, and do really make the book
difficult to read.  Perhaps you should read the book during some fasting and penitential period
of the year, such as Advent or Lent, but then again it might bring on some other kind of sin,
such as Sloth. NH

TRUE TO HIS COLOURS THE LIFE THAT WEARS BEST

BY REVEREND THEODORE P WILSON

CHAPTER ONE.

A SCEPTIC'S HOME.

Look back some forty years--there was not a quieter place then than the little village of Crossbourne.
It was a snug spot, situated among hills, and looked as though it were hiding away out of the
sight and notice of the bustling, roaring traffic that was going ceaselessly on all around it.

A little fussy stream or brook flowed on restlessly day and night through the centre of the
village, and seemed to be the only thing there that was ever in a hurry.  Carts and carriages,
but seldom many of the latter, had to drive through the stream when they wished to cross it;
for there was no bridge except a very rude one for foot-passengers just before you came to
the old mill, where the villagers had had their corn ground for generations.

Then to the north of the stream the houses straggled up on either side of a long winding street,
sometimes two or three together under one long thatched roof, and in other places singly, with
a small bit of meagre garden round them; a wooden latch lifted by a string which dangled outside
being the prevailing fastening to the outer doors.

Right up at the top of the street, and a little to the left, was the old Saxon church, which
had retained a considerable share of its original massive beauty, spite of the combined attacks
of plaster, mildew, and a succession of destructive restorations which had lowered the roof,
bricked up more than one fine old window, and thrust out a great iron chimney, which looked
not unlike the mailed hand of some giant shaking its clenched fist at the solid tower which
it was unable to destroy.

Just under the shadow of the old church, and separated from it by the low wall of the churchyard,
was the vicarage, a grey-looking structure in the midst of a small but well-stocked garden;
while beyond it were fields in long succession, with a ponderous-looking farm-house crouching
down here and there amongst them.

Of course there was an inn in the village.  It was marked out to travellers by a sign-board
dependent from a beam projecting over the footpath.  Something had once been painted on the
board, but it had become so blurred and indistinct under the corroding action of sun and rain,
that it would be quite impossible now to decide whether the features delineated on it were
those of a landscape, a lion, or a human countenance.

