So far back as 1630 an agency of commerce and exploration was founded in Quebec, under the
name of the Beaver Company. This was forty years before the Hudson's Bay Company received its
charter from the second Charles. The French went so far in their eagerness for territory that
they even claim to have discovered Hudson's Bay, through one Jean Bourdon, in 1656. This claim
is not admitted, however, in the Jesuit Relations, where, in 1672, Father Albanel writes: "Hitherto
this voyage had been considered impossible to Frenchmen, who, after having undertaken it three
times, and not having been able to surmount the obstacles, had seen themselves to abandon it
in despair of success." The claims of England to the territory were undoubted; but there can
be no question that Frenchmen were the first traders in the vicinity of Hudson's Bay.

The names of two stand out clearly, first as agents of French enterprise, and afterwards of
successful English adventure, in this early commercial history of the far north; where, for
nearly two centuries and a half, British energy and justice, and the honesty of English rule
has, through the Hudson's Bay Company, worked southward to meet the ever increasing territory
owned by the French until 1759. The Frenchmen whose names are so identified with the early
history of Hudson's Bay were Medard Chouart, called also Groseilliers, and Pierre Radisson.
They had emigrated from France as young men in the middle years of the century, and settled
at first in Three Rivers. After a somewhat intricate matrimonial experience, Radisson had established
relations which afterwards stood them both in good stead, at the same time typifying the ambiguous
nature of international relations in the far north. On the French side he was son-in-law to
Abraham Martin, whose name was given to the Heights of Abraham; he was also son-in-law to Sir
John Kirke, a brother of the English admiral to whom Champlain surrendered Quebec; while to
bind him closer to the companion of his adventurous life, he was brother-in-law to Groseilliers.

Thus allied by disposition and relationship the two enterprising Frenchmen, allured by visions
of fortune and adventure in the unknown regions of the north, soon abandoned the safe comforts
of town life; and having served a probation in several short expeditions, they at last applied
to the reigning powers in Quebec for leave to operate on a larger scale. The existing Company,
however, jealous for its monopoly, hedged them round with such difficult conditions that the
young men broke impatiently from all control and plunged into the wilds of the West, penetrating
at least as far as Lake Winnipeg. But Quebec was a stern step-mother, and when they returned,
instead of meeting congratulation, they were arrested and fined for illicit trading. After
a vain appeal to Paris, finding themselves rejected and discredited among their own countrymen,
the two adventurers performed the first of those political somersaults which made them a nine
days' wonder alternately in London and Paris, and finally brought to one, at least, an inglorious
competency of £10 a month. Fifty eventful years were, however, to roll past before that anti-climax
to the drama of their lives. To begin with, when they had shaken off the dust of New France,
they repaired to Boston, propounding to the New England traders the novel scheme for furnishing
an expedition to be sent round to Hudson's Bay by way of the sea; at the same time offering
their own experience for service in the undertaking. Although disposed to favour the proposal,
the Boston merchants had no available ships of their own, but advised an application to the
English Court. Arriving in England in 1667, the two friends were introduced by Lord Arlington,
then ambassador in Paris, to Prince Rupert, the natural patron of all adventurers at the time,
and who, moreover, was then expecting a grant of territory in America as a reward for his services
to the royal cause. Already the merchants of London had been roused to the possibilities of
this trade by the recent arrival of the first cargo of furs from New Amsterdam; and now when
the two impartial Frenchmen pointed out to them that the trade was being choked in Quebec,
and that England had a golden opportunity of profitable enterprise, two vessels, the Nonsuch
and the Eagle, were fitted out without delay, and one Captain Gillam received instructions
to investigate and report.

Such was the beginning of the Hudson's Bay Company. Although the Declaration of Rights in 1689
limited the rights granted by exclusive charters, and allowed British subjects to trade freely
to any quarter, yet the Hudson's Bay Company had in the twenty years previous to that date
obtained such a hold upon the new territory, especially by the erection of forts, that they
easily left all competitors behind.

The spirit of discovery was never so alive among the French as during those years following
the expulsion of Radisson and Groseilliers; yet the Government in Quebec was slow to realise
the serious nature of the menace in the north; and from the official papers afterwards prepared
for the British delegates at Utrecht, their easy confidence is thus described:--

       "Mr. Bailey, the Company's first Governor of their
   factories and settlements in that Bay, entertained a
   friendly correspondence by letters and otherwise with
   Monsieur Frontenac, then Governor of Canada, not in the
   least complaining, in several years, of any pretended
   injury done to France by the said Company's settling a
   trade and building a fort at the bottom of Hudson's Bay,
   nor making pretensions to any right of France on that
   Bay, or to the countries bordering on it, till long after
   this time."

Trouble, however, came in due course. With a natural distrust of renegade Frenchmen, Governor
Bailey suspected the two friends of being concerned in a plot set on foot by certain Jesuit
agents of the Intendant Talon in 1673, by which the loyalty of the Indians was to be alienated
from the English traders. After scenes of personal violence, the alleged traitors justified
the suspicions of the Governor by severing once more the slender tie of their allegiance and
returning to the service of France. Nor was it long before new fruits of their restless energy
appeared. In 1681 the Compagnie du Nord was organised as a rival to the "Adventurers of England";
and in the same year the Intendant Duchesneau complained to his Government of the aggressions
of the English traders.

"They" (the English), he wrote, "are still in Hudson's Bay on the north and do great damage
to our fur trade....The sole means to prevent them succeeding in what is prejudicial to us
would be to drive them by main force from that Bay, which belongs to us. Or, if there would
be an objection in coming to that extremity, to construct forts on the rivers falling into
the lakes, in order to stop the Indians at these points."

From this time to the peace of Utrecht there was war between the Hudson's Bay Company and the
French. A veiled expedition set out from Quebec in 1682, under the guidance of Groseilliers
and Radisson, to attack the forts on the Bay; and by their effrontery and good generalship
they at last became possessed of the newly built Fort Nelson, with Bridgar its Governor, and
returned next year with their prisoners and spoils to Quebec. But this triumph was soon converted
by their lawless temper into disgrace and condemnation; and to escape penalty for misappropriating
large quantities of fur, the two leaders were compelled to fly from New France for the second
time, and once more take refuge in Paris.

But now the English Company decided to make another bid for the services of these versatile
bushrangers, who once more proved their graceful facility for playing a double game. Radisson
was sent by the English ambassador to London, where he became a lion of society, and was presented
to Charles II. John Selwyn thus describes his appearance:[40]--

       "To the Duke's Playhouse, where Radisson, the American
   fur-trader, was in the royal box. Never was such a
   combination of French, English, and Indian savage as Sir
   John Kirke's son-in-law....He was not wont to dress so
   when he was last here, but he has got him a new coat with
   much lace upon it, which he wears with his leather
   breeches and shoes. His hair is a perfect tangle. It is
   said he has made an excellent fortune for himself."

[Footnote 40: Quoted by Beckles Willson, The Great Company, vol. i. p. 141.]

Radisson's star, however, was almost set, for although he enriched his new masters with fresh
cargoes of spoil from the north, his reckless disposition had again involved him in a quarrel
with a powerful agent of the Company, and on returning to England he found himself discredited
and neglected. With a pension of ten pounds a month, paid by the Company only after the strenuous
Radisson had had recourse to law, he continued to live in obscurity until 1720, his friend
Groseilliers having died ten years before. He had paid dearly for his lack of patriotism. An
affected or assumed distrust of him on the part of the Hudson's Bay Company, who had profited
enormously by his services, was the unconvincing reason given for mean neglect and an injustice
only at last set right by the law invoked through Sir William Young and Richard Cradock, members
of the Company. Brigand or traitor though he was, as such he had been the agent of the Hudson's
Bay Company, and his bold services were worthy of reward.

Meantime the Company's servants were being hard pressed in the Bay, confronted as they were
by one of the best commanders of the time, the famous Sieur d'Iberville, who gained his first
laurels in this obscure conflict. Although the glory of the campaign was reaped by their French
assailants, who, between the years 1682 and 1688, inflicted losses on the Company to the extent
of seven ships with their cargoes, and six forts and factories, yet the material advantages
turned out in the end to be on the side of the English traders. Among other indiscretions,
the conquerors fell to quarrelling with the Indian tribes, who soon made their position on
the shores of Hudson's Bay intolerable; while the coureurs de bois, spreading out from their
headquarters at Michillimackinac, diverted the Indian trappers from French and English forts alike.

On the other hand, the Hudson's Bay Company were able, in 1690, to declare a dividend of seventy-five
per cent on their original stock; and on the accession of William III. they presented him with
a substantial proof of the progress of their undertaking:--

       "On this happy occasion," so their address ran, "we
   desire also most humbly to present to your Majesty a
   dividend of 225 guineas upon a £300 stock in the Hudson's
   Bay Company...and although we have been the greatest
   sufferers of any Company from those enemies of all
   mankind, the French, yet when your Majesty's just arms
   shall have given repose to all Christendom, we also
   shall enjoy our share of these great benefits, and do not
   doubt but to appear often with this golden fruit in our
   hands, under the happy influence of your Majesty's most
   gracious protection over us and all our concerns."

William acknowledged this manifestation of loyalty by granting the Company a confirmation of
their charter, and by including a statement of their grievances in his first declaration of
war against France; but it is evident that the Home Government at that time took little real
heed to the interests of this distant dependency, and by a casual clause in the Treaty of Ryswick
the most important ports on Hudson's Bay were ceded to the French.

The Company's prospects after that surrender were indeed gloomy; shares fell low, indifference
and ignorance prevailing in high places; and the faithful remnant could only hope for a renewal
of the war. But at last Fortune began to smile again; for although no important battles were
ever afterwards fought in the region of the Bay, the brilliant campaigns of Marlborough in
Europe reflected glory upon the struggling traders in the New World, and gave them prestige
and power; until finally, by the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713, the huge undefined domain of Hudson's
Bay was unconditionally yielded up to Great Britain. After many years one more hapless attempt
was made to capture the forts of the north; but thenceforth the French put forward no regular
claim to the territory so long disputed.

Although the merchants of New England in due course made efforts to secure a share of the fur
trade, the only real competition, from first to last, was offered by the French explorers.
In 1684 Du Lhut had been sent westward by Governor La Barre to counteract the influence of
the Hudson's Bay Company with the Indians, and he had only reported to his master that in two
years not a single savage would visit the English at Hudson's Bay. Iberville's victories in
the north, however, had distracted the attention of the Government from this enterprise, and
the work was left to be carried on by independent traders. A profitable trade in furs sprang
up on the lines of La Vérendrye's discoveries, and the forts of Michillimackinac and Sault
Ste. Marie continued to flourish until the traders were finally withdrawn from all the outlying
regions to defend Quebec against the English.

It had been a gallant fight, in which the native qualities of both races had been seen to advantage.
Ardent, brave, adventurous, the Frenchman had ever been the best of pioneers. With a faculty
for acquiring languages and dialects, he quickly adapted himself to the ways of the Indian,
won their sympathy, and treated them with an equality and freedom which made their path of
peaceful conquest easy and trade a cheerful jugglery. From first to last there entered into
the life of the French trader and adventurer an element of patriotism and romance--conquest
for conquest's sake and for the glory of French enterprise. He must ever remain the more eloquent,
the more picturesque figure, the more admired pioneer of the Far North. But his rival, the
Briton, had qualities which outwore him, and the patriarchal and stable methods of the Hudson's
Bay Company prevailed in the end.

The heroic age of the Company had passed away; and now a long and uneventful period began,
in which, as in the Middle Ages, the energies of men were slowly gathering for the more strenuous
activity of modern conditions.

