--The Indian children of Forest Grove, Oregon, publish a paper edited by themselves, called
"The Indian Citizen." It is in the interest of the Forest Grove school.

--The Presbyterians commenced their work in Kansas by the establishment of a Mission among
the Indians. They now have 300 churches in that state.

--The Indian boys at the Hampton Institute have a debating society for the purpose of encouraging
each other in speaking English. The topic for the first night, over which two exercised their
powers in the new language was, "Shall we allow the white men in our reservation?" There is
also a debating society among the girls in Winona Lodge.

--A Canadian Indian was recently seized by a party of masked Americans and hanged within the
borders of the Dominion, in British Columbia, and the matter having come to the ears of the
Government at Ottawa the question has been considered, and satisfaction is to be demanded of
the United States Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDIANS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DAKOTA INDIANS.

BY REV. ADDISON P. FOSTER.

It was my rare good fortune last summer to spend nearly a month in a trip of investigation
among the Dakota Indians. A record of observations thus made may perhaps be of interest.

Across the Missouri, in Northern Nebraska, is a reservation about twelve miles square on which
are located the Santees. These Indians came originally from Minnesota, and were concerned in
the terrible New Ulm massacre there. This was years ago. After that bloody outbreak a large
number of Indians were imprisoned. While thus incarcerated they were deeply moved by the truths
of religion. The long and faithful labors of Drs. Riggs and Williamson bore fruit, and very
many were truly converted. These Minnesota Indians were subsequently removed, a portion to
the Sisseton Agency, a portion to Flandreau, and a portion to the Santee Agency. At this last-named
spot the Indians are practically civilized. They wear the white man's dress; they cultivate
farms of their own; they sustain two churches, one Episcopal and one Congregational, the latter
having its excellent native pastor and an outlying chapel where the native deacons conduct
meetings in turn; they have recently, to the number of fifty, taken up land under the homestead
laws and now own them in fee simple. There are three boarding schools on the reservation, one
sustained by the American Missionary Association and in the charge of the Rev. A. L. Riggs,
another sustained by the Episcopalians, under the jurisdiction of Bishop Hare, and a third
supported by the Government, of which Rev. Charles Seccombe, a Congregationalist, is principal.
The work in all these schools is admirable. The children are neat, intelligent, attractive,
orderly, and studious, and while not as far advanced nor as quick, will compare favorably with
the children of schools among white people. The development of Indian character under these
Christianizing influences was remarkably shown in a visit to one of the cottages on the mission.
Here dwell one of the native teachers, her mother and grandmother. The aged grandmother in
her whole appearance bespoke the wild Indian. Gray and bent with age, she loved best to sit
on the floor in a corner, after the fashion of her people. The mother, a comely matron of perhaps
forty-five, was evidently more cultivated, was lady-like in her appearance, and had lines of
thoughtfulness on her thin face. The work of civilization had made great advance in her. But
the daughter, a young lady of eighteen, well educated, knowing only the ways of civilization,
was as thoroughly refined and bright and attractive as the young ladies of our own Christian homes.

At Oahe, fifteen miles west of Pierre, Dakota Territory, is a second mission station, under
the charge of the American Missionary Association. Up and down the river, on what is known
as the Peoria Bottom, are perhaps a hundred families of Indians, each living on their own homesteads,
off reservation limits, cultivating their farms, dwelling in comfortable log-houses, dressed
in civilized garb, and showing as much neatness and industry as the average white man. These
people are recognized as citizens and are voters. They have a neat chapel, a native pastor,
sustain admirable prayer-meetings--a woman's prayer-meeting among them--and live good reputable
lives. In this spot and at Santee Agency the Indian is seen at his best. Life and property
are respected, the land is fairly tilled, the homes are happy, intelligence is general, and
religion is the universal motive-power.

On the west side of the Missouri in Dakota lies the great Sioux Reservation, containing 8,000
Indians at the Pine Ridge Agency, nearly 8,000 at the Rosebud Agency, 1,500 of the Lower Brule
Indians, 3,000 along the Cheyenne River and northward, and nearly 4,000 on the Standing Rock
Agency. It was my fortune to visit a number of villages on the Cheyenne, Morrow, and Grand
Rivers and at Standing Rock. The Indians at these places are all wild--that is, still wear
blankets, breech-cloths, and leggings, feathers and geegaws, do little toward cultivating the
land, and are ignorant heathen. A Sabbath in a village on the Cheyenne showed what wild Indians
were. The morning opened with two men disguised in buffalo-skins with the heads on, running
through the village. They had had a dream, were supposed to be possessed of spirits, and as
they chased the villagers all ran from them, affrighted lest some witchcraft be wrought by
them. Presently the church-bell rang at the missionary's tent, and fifty Indians came in, gaudy
in paints and wampum, ornaments, and dangling queues tied up with mink-skins, the chief wearing
a broken down beaver hat with a faded weed upon it, and the rest supplied with fans of eagles'
wings, pipes, and other accompaniments of Indian gentlemen. They listened with occasional grunts
of approval during worship, and filed out at the close with a cordial handshake, one remaining,
named from his height Touch-the-Clouds, to say that he felt the importance of this new way,
and that he wished for himself and his people schools and churches. This was encouraging, but
as the evening came on there set up a hideous noise; a dance was in progress, and all night
long a relay of three Indians kept up the hideous and monotonous tom-tom of their kettle-drums,
while the shrill scream of the women pierced the air.

The next morning were things equally painful. A young Indian woman, with four children to care
for, put away by her cruel husband for another wife, came to beg the missionary's influence
to secure for her Government rations. A tent hard by was visited, where the family, in accordance
with Indian superstitions, were gathering, and had been for a year or two, all sorts of valuable
articles for presents in honor of some deceased member of the household, intending by-and-by
to distribute all these things, leaving themselves beggared. And last of all, in a neighboring
village were seen three men and a boy, clad with a few feathers in their hair, and yellow ochre
on their bodies, going through mummeries in the sight of a large company. They were "making
mystery," whatever that may be.

At Standing Rock were Sitting Bull and Chief Gall, with their bands. Not many years ago they
had been on the war path; they were concerned in the Custer massacre; but now they are in wholesome
awe of the Government and dependent on Government favor for daily bread. Consequently they
are orderly and peaceable, and though a few years since it would have been dangerous for three
unarmed men to pass through their reservations, it was perfectly safe last summer for a missionary
speaking the Indian language and his friends.

A third class of Indians was found at Fort Berthold. This reservation is a hundred miles north
of Bismarck, Dakota Territory, on the east side of the Missouri. There are three small tribes
combined in one large village for protection against their ancient enemies the Sioux, namely,
the Arickarees, the Mandans, and the Gros Ventres. These Indians have latterly made great advances
in civilization. They have 800 acres under cultivation, all looking admirably and well fenced
in, and they are taking great pride in their work and asking for more land to cultivate. They
have comfortable homes, or "lodges," as they are called, made in an octagonal form, of logs
completely covered with earth. They are eagerly obtaining from the Government such comforts
of civilization as they can--reapers, cooking-stoves, baking-powder, and the like. And yet
this people display some of the grossest elements of savagery. Polygamy is common. The disgusting
scaffold burials still go on, and the air in the neighborhood of the village is sometimes foul
from the adjacent cemetery. Buffalo heads and poles with red streamers, as offerings or invocations
to spirits, surmount many of the lodges and bear witness to the heathenism of the people. Many
of the men are terribly scarred on the shoulders, breast and arms with the cruel practices
of the sun dance. Men and women alike wear the dress of their savage life. There has been as
yet little success from schools or church work. Few care for schools, and the attendance at
the mission chapel is not large. The fault, however, is not with the devoted missionaries,
Rev. C. L. Hall and his helpers of the American Missionary Association, whose faithfulness
is unsurpassed, but with bad white men who visit the village. For years these Indians have
been brought in contact with some of the worst influences of civilization, and in consequence
the women have become gross, the men have lost their sense of honor, and the people are manifestly
more degraded and harder to reach than the wild Indians on the Sioux Reservation.

After observation of these three types of Indians, the Christianized, the wild and the polluted,
certain conclusions were inevitable.

1. There is a natural nobility in the Indian character. The Indian is debased by heathenism
and his wild life, lazy, improvident, filthy, obscene and cruel; and yet he is well endowed
by nature with brains and heart and conscience. He is clear-headed and generous; he is often
affectionate in his family; he is capable of becoming industrious, conscientious, scholarly,
and thoroughly consecrated. If his wild life has affected him unfavorably, it has not done
him the same kind of harm that slavery has to the colored man. He is not crushed in spirit
and ambition as was the colored slave at the time of the civil war.

2. There, as elsewhere, the gospel proves the most efficient instrumentality. The United States
Government is doing a noble work for the elevation of the race by introducing the agencies
of civilization. The Indian agents in Dakota are, as a rule, noble men, vieing with the missionaries
in endeavors to benefit the race. The Board of Indian Commissioners are deserving of all praise
for their great services. The present system of Government management in establishing schools,
in encouraging agriculture, in discountenancing savage practices, in stimulating the home-life,
is most admirable. But Christian efforts are yet more efficacious. It is where the gospel has
sway the longest, or has been the chief influence, that the Indians are the most elevated.

3. It cannot be questioned that we have come to a new stage in Indian affairs. At last there
is throughout the country almost complete control of the wild Indians. The day of Indian wars
is over. We may very likely never have another. Now that the buffalo has largely disappeared,
the Indian is dependent on the Government supplies for food and clothing, unless, like the
white man, he resorts to agriculture. In consequence, without any large display of military
force, the Indian agents are able to preserve excellent order on the reservations. The Indians
feel their dependence and recognize the power of the Government. If fairly treated by the white
man they will give us little trouble hereafter. It is easy to see that modifications in their
condition, all looking toward civilization, are constantly taking place. They are giving up
their Indian dress. It is now rare to find an Indian whose dress is not in some way conformed
to the white man's. They are learning the comforts of civilization through the supplies from
Government, and welcome the frame house, the sugar and syrup, the flour and beans, the tools
and clothing which come to them from this source. They feel the pressure of the white population
crowding upon them from every side. They see their wild life is a thing of the past, and while
there are selfish, vicious, superstitious and conservative influences strongly at work against
the change, still the change goes on. Their more thoughtful men, perceiving the necessity of
the change and recognizing its advantage, are urging the establishment of schools and churches
among them. There can be little doubt that as these processes continue the tribal relation
will eventually cease, the reservation system will be abandoned, the Indian will come under
ordinary laws, he will be assigned land in severalty, will cultivate it for his support, and
become citizen. Already this is true of many Indians, and the day is not far distant--I venture
to prophesy that it is within the next twenty years--when, if these influences continue, the
Indian will be so thoroughly absorbed among his white brethren that as a separate race he will
be lost to sight, and the Indian question will be a question no more.

A word now in explanation of the illustrations accompanying this article. An Indian chief is
prominent in the first cut. His son is on horseback beside him. His wives and younger children
are seated on the ground. The influence of civilization already appears in the dress of these
people and in their use of cattle. The second cut represents a small portion of the large burying-ground
at Fort Berthold. The wigwams in the third cut are mostly of skin, but generally canvas furnished
by the Government is now used. The arrangement of poles and the desolate appearance of the
tents scattered here and there are true to life. In the sixth cut the heavy earrings and necklace
are of wampum and very valuable. The dress, while cut in Indian fashion, is, like nearly all
that the Indians now wear, furnished by the Government. The Indian in the fifth cut wears his
hair long and tied up in two queues, with mink-skin pendants. His constant companion, a pipe
of red pipe-clay, is in his lap. The lodge in the seventh cut admirably represents the peculiar
homes of Fort Berthold Indians. It is very large, and sometimes divided into several rooms
inside. It is well constructed as a protection against the severe winters of Northern Dakota.

On the top of the lodge an Indian is standing. For many years the Indians of Fort Berthold
have been accustomed thus to look out across the Missouri, on the watch, lest their ancient
enemies, the Sioux, steal upon them unaware. Beside the Indian may be seen the wicker framework
of a "bull boator," skin coracle. The Indians can seize these in a moment, run with them on
their heads to the river, and paddle across the Missouri with ease after a deer or a buffalo.
In the foreground is a travoir, or Indian wagon, made of two poles with a pouch of leather
thongs slung between them. A pony rather than a dog ordinarily drags this. Another cut represents
the Santee Indian as he was a few years ago. He now lives in a comfortable log-house, or often
in a frame house given him by the Government. In the last cut are very good likenesses of two
girls who are now at the Normal Training School sustained by the American Missionary Associates
at Santee. They are pure-blooded Indians. Their father is a chief at Fort Berthold, who has
turned from his wild life to become a regular attendant at church and a thoughtful imitator
of the white man's ways.

Two other cuts represent groups of school-children at Santee, all Indians. The artist has not
exaggerated the bright and attractive look upon their faces. They come from all parts of Dakota
and the Santee Reservation. In the ninth cut is represented an Indian who, with a white man's
shirt, retains his native leggings, blanket, necklace and tomahawk.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORTY-FIVE YEARS IN WASHINGTON TERRITORY.

REV. CUSHING EELS, D.D.

From August 1838, to Sept., 1883, a period of more than 45 consecutive years, I was a resident
of what is now Oregon and Washington Territory. I spent the greater part of those years in
what is included in Washington Territory.

I was employed during the first ten years in mission work under the patronage of the American
Board in behalf of the Spokane Indians.

The massacre of Marcus Whitman, M.D., and others in the Walla Walla Valley, Nov., 1847, was
followed by war which necessitated the removal in 1848 of all Protestants from the mission
field east of the Cascade Mountains. By military proclamation, June, 1848, the country named
was declared closed against missionaries. It remained thus eleven years. June, 1859, by military
proclamation, the Walla Walla country was declared open for settlement.

In July of that year I, as agent of the A. B. C. F. M., went to Walla Walla to look after their
interests. Standing beside the grave of the distinguished patriot and martyr, Dr. Whitman,
I purposed to attempt the erection of a monument to his memory in the form of a school of high
Christian character. The following Spring, 1860, I commenced work in fulfillment of the plan
named. During the next 12 years the execution of that plan was with me all-controlling. In
pursuance of said object I recently returned to my native New England.

During my sojourn in Walla Walla from 1860 to 1872 I was favored with opportunities for the
measurable prosecution of evangelistic work among the Spokane Indians. In May, 1872, my house
at the place formerly occupied by Dr. Whitman was consumed by fire.

My elder son had previously been nominated by the American Missionary Association as Indian
agent and confirmed by Government. Previous to his taking charge the Lord's day had been distinguished
for the performance of outlandish wickedness. With the new agent there was change of employés.
A weekly prayer meeting was appointed and conducted. With a good degree of constancy it has
been continued to the present time. A Sunday-school was organized. It is continued with sustained
interest.

Soon after the burning of my house in Walla Walla, Agent Eells hastened thither and took his
mother to his home. Early the following autumn I joined dear ones at Skokomish. A new departure
was named. In pursuance thereof, with the interpreter, a devout Indian, I conducted divine
service at the Indian village. It was continued with gratifying results.

