   "And they not so reconciled, every one of them
    shall have process made agaynst him accordyng to
    the canons, as the case shall requyre; for which purpose
    the pastours and curates of every paryshe shall be
    commanded by their archedeacon to certyfye me in
    writinge of every man and woman's name that is not
    so reconciled."

Have any of your readers at any time seen and made a note of such a register?

The most probable place of deposit would be the Bishop's Registry, but I have never yet been
fortunate enough to meet with one of these curious returns.

J.S.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

Darkness at the Crucifixion.--The following passage, in a volume of Lectures by the Rev. H.
Blunt, has fallen under my notice:--

   "It was this Dionysius (the Areopagite) of whom
    the earliest Christian historians relate that, being at
    Heliopolis, in Egypt, at the time of our Lord's crucifixion,
    when he beheld the mid-day darkness which
    attended that awful event, he exclaimed, 'Either the
    God of Nature suffers, or the frame of the world will
    be dissolved.'"

Having very limited opportunity of studying the ancient historians, I should be greatly obliged
if you would inform me from what work this account is derived; or refer me to any authors,
not having embraced Christianity, who give a description of the crucifixion of our Saviour;
and especially with reference to the "darkness over all the earth" at the time of that event,
mentioned by St. Luke, who also adds, that "the sun was darkened." Your kindly consenting,
as you did in your second number, to receive queries respecting references, has induced me
to trouble you so far.

S.A.M.

[Our correspondent will find much that is to his purpose, both in the way of statements and
of reference {187} to original authorities, in Lardner's Jewish and Heathen Testimonies, chap.
xiii. of the Heathen Authors; vol. ii. p. 125. of the original 4to. edition; or vol. vii. p.
370. of the 8vo. edition of his works by Kippis, 1788.]

High-Doctrine.--In the Cambridgeshire fens there are a great number of Dissenters, and I believe
Cromwell's Ironsides were chiefly recruited from those districts. On the higher lands adjoining
are the old parish churches; and in conversation it is not uncommon to hear the tenets of the
Church of England described as High land Doctrine, in contra-distinction to the Low land, or
Dissenters' doctrine.

The thing is amusing, if nothing else, and I heard it while staying some few years ago with
my brother, who lives on the edges of the Cambridgeshire fens.

E.H.

Wife of Robert de Bruce.--In the Surrenden Collection is an interesting roll, entitled "Liberatio
facta Ingelardo de Warlee Custodi Garderobe, 7 E. 2."

It is, as its title imports, the release to the keeper of the wardrobe, for one year's accounts,
aº. 7 E. 2.

I shall probably be able to send you therefrom a few "notes" illustrative of the history of
that time.

As a commencement, I think that the subjoined "note" will interest your historical readers.

It appears that the unfortunate wife of Robert Bruce was then consigned to the care of the
Abbess of Barking, with an allowance of 20s. per week for the same. She was, I believe, the
daughter of Henry de Burgh, Earl of Ulster, and died in 1328. In the above roll there is the
following entry:--

   "Cs liberati Anne de Veer Abbatisse de Berkyng,
    per manus domini Roberti de Wakfeld clerici, super
    expensis domine Elizabethe uxoris Roberti de Brus,
    percipientis per ebdomadum xxs., et ibidem perhendinantis."

   "Cs liberati Johanni de Stystede valletto Abbatisse
    de Berkyng, per manus proprias, super expensis
    Domine de Brus in Abbathia de Berkyng perhendinantis."

It does not appear, in the above roll, how long the hapless queen remained in the abbey.

