There can be no doubt that Bunbury is right. I am so convinced of it that when next my tailor
inquires anxiously what steps are being taken for the distribution of prize-money I shall put
the matter to him just as Bunbury put it to me. He is certain to understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Commercial Candour.=

    "The newest fashions are now being displayed in ----'s new
    dress salons, so that it is an easy matter to select an entire
    winter outfit with the minimum of ease."--Evening Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir Harry Johnston's 'The Gay Donkeys' has passed its fifth
    edition in London."--Australian Magazine.

A clear case for the S.P.C.A. (Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Authors).

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=UNAUTHENTIC IMPRESSIONS.=

I think the time has come for me to follow the example of so many other people and offer to
the world a few pen pictures of prominent statesmen of the day. I shall not call them "Shaving
Papers from Downing Street," nor adopt the pseudonym of "The Man with the Hot Water (or the
Morning Tea)," nor shall I roundly assert that I have been the private secretary, the doctor,
the dentist or the washerwoman of the great men of whom I speak. Nevertheless I have sources
of information which I do not mean to disclose, except to say that heavy persons who sit down
carelessly on sofas may unknowingly inflict considerable pain, through the sharp ends of broken
springs, on those beneath.

I shall begin naturally with Mr. LLOYD GEORGE.

There is probably no statesman of whom such widely different estimates have been formed as
the present Prime Minister of Great Britain. I have heard him compared with THEMISTOCLES, with
MACCHIAVELLI, with MIRABEAU (I think it was MIRABEAU, but it may have been one of those other
people beginning with "M" in French history. Almost everybody in French history began with
an "M," like the things that were drawn by the three little girls in the well), and even with
the younger PITT. I have heard him spoken of as a charlatan, as a chameleon, as a chatterbox,
and, by a man who had hoped that the KAISER would be hanged in Piccadilly Circus, as a chouser.
Almost all of these estimates are thoroughly fallacious. Let us take, for instance, MACCHIAVELLI.
It was the declared opinion of MACCHIAVELLI that for the establishment and maintenance of authority
all means may be resorted to and that the worst and most treacherous acts of the ruler, however
unlawful in themselves, are justified by the wickedness and treachery of the governed. Has
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE ever said this? He may have thought it, of course, but has he ever said it?
No. When one considers that besides this dictum MACCHIAVELLI wrote seven books on the art of
war, a highly improper comedy, a life of CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI (unfinished, and can you wonder?),
and was very naturally put to the torture in 1513, it will be seen how hopelessly the parallel
with Mr. LLOYD GEORGE breaks down.

Let us turn then to the younger PITT. I have read somewhere of the younger PITT that he cared
more for power than for measures, and was ready to sacrifice great causes with which he had
sincerely sympathised rather than raise an opposition that might imperil his ascendency. That
is just the kind of nasty and long-winded thing that anybody might say about anybody. It was
by disregarding this kind of criticism that the younger PITT kept on being younger. But apart
from this, does Mr. LLOYD GEORGE quote HORACE in the House? Never, thank goodness. How many
times did WILLIAM PITT cross the English Channel? Only once in his whole life. That settles it.

The predominant note--I may almost say the keynote--of the PRIME MINISTER'S character is rather
a personal magnetism such as has never been exercised by any statesman before or after. When
he rises to speak in the House all eyes are riveted on him as though with a vice until he has
finished speaking. Even when he has finished they sometimes have to be removed by the Serjeant-at-Arms
with a chisel. His speeches have the moral fervour and intensity of one of the Minor Prophets--NAHUM
or AMOS, in the opinion of some critics, though I personally incline to MALACHI or HABAKKUK.
This personal magnetism which Mr. LLOYD GEORGE radiates in the House he radiates no less in
10, Downing Street, where a special radiatorium has been added to the breakfast-room to radiate
it. Imagine an April morning, a kingfisher on a woody stream, poplar-leaves in the wind, a
shower of sugar shaken suddenly from a sifter, and you have the man.

It has been said that Mr. LLOYD GEORGE has quarrelled with some of his nearest friends; but
this again is a thing that might happen to anybody. Mr. LLOYD GEORGE may have had certain slight
differences of opinion with Lord NORTHCLIFFE, but what about HENRY VIII. and WOLSEY? and HENRY
V. and Falstaff? and HENRY II. and THOMAS À BECKET?

Talking of THOMAS À BECKET, rather a curious story has been told to me, which I give for what
it is worth. It is stated that some time ago Mr. LLOYD GEORGE was so enraged by attacks in
a certain section of the Press that he shouted suddenly, after breakfast one morning in Downing
Street, "Will no one rid me of this turbulent scribe?" Whereupon four knights in his secretarial
retinue drew their swords and set out immediately for Printing House Square. Fortunately there
happened to be a breakdown on the Metropolitan Railway that day, so that nothing untoward occurred.

I sometimes think that if one can imagine the eloquence of SAVONAROLA blended with the wiliness
of ULYSSES and grafted on to the strength and firmness of OLIVER CROMWELL, we have the best
historical parallel for Mr. LLOYD GEORGE. It ought to be remembered that the grandfather of
OLIVER CROMWELL came from Wales and that the PROTECTOR is somewhere described as "Oliver Cromwell
alias Williams." Something of that old power of dispensing with stupid Parliamentary opinion
seems to have descended to our present PRIME MINISTER. There is one difference, however. OLIVER
CROMWELL'S famous advice to his followers was to trust in Divine Providence "and keep your
powder dry." Mr. LLOYD GEORGE puts his powder in jam.

K.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Our Patient Fishermen.=

    "Mr. ----, jun., had another salmon on the Finavon Water.
    This is the second he has secured since the flood."--Scotch
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.=

THE WHALE.

AIR.--"The Tarpaulin Jacket."

  The whale has a beautiful figure,
    Which he makes every effort to spoil,
  For he knows if he gets a bit bigger
    He increases the output of oil.

  That is why he insists upon swathing
    His person with layers of fat.
  You have seen a financier bathing?
    Well, the whale is a little like that.

  At heart he's as mild as a pigeon
    And extremely attached to his wife,
  But getting mixed up with religion
    Has ruined the animal's life.

  For in spite of his tact and discretion
    There is fixed in the popular mind
  A wholly mistaken impression
    That the whale is abrupt and unkind.

  And it's simply because of the prophet
    Who got into a ship for Tarshish
  But was thrown (very properly) off it
    And swallowed alive by "a fish."

  Now I should not, of course, have contested
    The material truth of the tale
  If the prophet himself had suggested
    That the creature at fault was a whale.

  But the prophet had no such suspicion,
    And that is convincing because
  He was constantly in a position
    To see what the miscreant was.

  And this is what punctures the bubble,
    As JONAH, no doubt, was aware:
  "A fish" was the cause of the trouble,
    But the whale is a mammal. So there!

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE LIGHT FANTASTIC.=

"Dancers are born, not made," said John.

"Some are born dancers," corrected Cecilia, "others achieve dancing."

"Well, I'm not going to have it thrust on me any way," retorted John. "I never have liked dancing
and I never shall. I haven't danced for years and years and I don't intend to. I don't know
any of these new-fangled dances and I don't want to."

"Don't be so obstinate," said Cecilia. "What you want doesn't matter. You've got to learn,
so you may as well give way decently. Come along now, I'll play for you, and Margery will show
you the steps."

"If Margery attempts to show me the steps I shall show her the door. I won't be bullied in
my own house. Why don't you make your brother dance, if somebody must?" said John, waving his
arm at me.

"Come on, Alan," said Margery; "we can't waste our time on him. Come and show him how it's done."

"My dear little sister," I said sweetly, "I should simply love it, but the fact is--I can't."

"Can't," echoed Margery. "Why not?"

"I hate to mention these things," I explained, "but the fact is I took part in a war that has
been on recently, and I have a bad hip, honourable legacy of same."

"Oh, Alan," said Margery, "how can you? Your hip's absolutely fit, you know it is. You haven't
mentioned it for months."

"My dear Margery," I said, drawing myself up, "I hope your brother knows how to suffer in silence.
But if you suppose that because I don't complain--Great heavens, child, sometimes in the long
silent watches of the night--"

"Well, how about, tennis, then?" said Margery. "You've been playing all this summer, you know
you have."

"All what summer?" I asked.

"That's a good one," said John; "I bet she can't answer that."

"Don't quibble," said Margery.

"Don't squabble," said Cecilia.

"Yes, stop squibbling," said John.

"I'm not quabbling," said I.

John and I leaned against each other and laughed helplessly.

"When you have finished," said Cecilia with a cold eye, "perhaps you will decide which of you
is going to have the first lesson."

"Good heavens," said John tragically, "haven't they forgotten the dancing yet?"

"We may as well give way, John," I said; "we shall get no peace until we do."

"I suppose not," said John dismally "Very well, then, you're her brother you shall have first go."

He waved me politely to Margery.

"Not at all," I said quickly "Brothers-in-law first in our family--always."

"Could we both come together?" asked John.

"No, you can't," said Margery.

"Then we must toss for it," said John, producing a coin.

"Tails," I called.

"Tails it is," said John, walking across the room to Margery.

And the lesson commenced.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Chassée to the right, chassée to the left, two steps forward, two steps backward, twinkle
each way--"

"Five shillings on Twinkle, please," I interrupted.

Margery stopped and looked at me.

"You keep quiet, Alan," shouted Cecilia, cheerfully banging the piano.

"I shall never learn," said John miserably from the middle of the room, "not in a thousand years."

"Yes, you will," encouraged Margery. "Just listen. Chassée to the right, chassée to the left,
two steps forward, two steps back, twinkle each way--"

"Take away the number you first thought of," I suggested, "and the answer's the Louisiana Glide."

"To finish up," said Margery, "we grasp each other firmly, prance round, two bars...."

"That sounds a bit better," said John.

" ... then waltz four bars," continued Margery, "and that's all. Come on, now."

They came on....

"Good," said Margery as they finished up; "he's doing it splendidly, Cecilia."

John beamed complacently.

"I got through that last bit rather well," he said; "'pon my word, there's more in this dancing
than I thought. I quite enjoyed that twinkling business."

"Have another one," I suggested.

"Don't mind if I do," said John. "May I have the pleasure?" with a courtly bow to Margery.

They re-commenced.

"That's right," said Margery; "now two forward."

"I must have a natural genius for dancing," said John, conversing easily; "I seem to ... Do
we twinkle next?"

"Yes," said Margery.

"I seem to fall into it naturally."

"Look out!" shrieked Margery.

I don't know exactly what happened; I rather think John got his gears mixed up in the twinkling
business. At any rate, one of his feet shot up in the air, he made a wild grab at nothing and
tripped heavily backwards into the hearth. The piano was drowned in general uproar.

John arose with difficulty from the ashes and addressed himself haughtily to Cecilia.

"I can understand that these two," he said, waving a black but contemptuous hand at Margery
and myself, "should scream with delight. Their whole conception of humour is bound up with
banana-skins and orange-peel. But may I ask why you should have hysterics because your husband
has fallen into the fireplace?"

"'You seemed to fall into it so naturally,'" I quoted in a shaky voice.

"Darling," sobbed Cecilia, "I am trying--please--if only you would take that piece of soot
off your nose--" She dabbed her eyes and wept helplessly.

John rubbed his nose quickly and walked to the door.

"If you want my opinion of dancing," he said bitterly, "I think it's a low pagan habit."

"'Twinkle, twinkle, little star,'" sang Margery.

"Bah!" said John, and banged the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW UTOPIA.

[Suggested by Mr. J. H. THOMAS'S book, just out, with a Red Flag on the wrapper.]

  O England, with what joy I hail
    The master-hand that calms and cools
  In THOMAS'S entrancing tale,
        When Labour Rules.

  There will be no more serfs and slaves;
    There will be no more feudal fools;
  The KING may stay, if he behaves,
          When Labour rules.

  Workers, in Downing Street installed,
    Will never think of downing tools;
  Strikes clearly never will be called
          When Labour rules.

  The hand of brotherhood that knits
    At present Tom and Dick with Jules
  Will be extended to good Fritz,
          When Labour rules.

  The vile capitalistic crew
    Of human vampires, sharks and ghouls
  Will vanish in the boundless blue
          When Labour rules.

  Our children will be standardized
    In psycho-analytic schools,
  And brains completely equalized
          When Labour rules.

  O Paradise! O frabjous day!
    When 'neath the flag of flaming gules
  Labour shall hold unchallenged sway--
          When THOMAS rules.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=GENF AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.=

"Genf," like "Genève," is the Swiss for "Geneva." It was selected, nearly two years ago, as
the seat of the League of Nations. In a few days the League arrives; and I doubt if any person,
firm, company, corporation or league, having provided itself with a seat, ever waited so long
before it came and sat upon it.

You will remember a learned treatise of mine in these pages on the subject of Lucerne, written
in August last, when our PRIME MINISTER came and sat there. I make my living by writing up
the towns of Switzerland as one by one they get sat on. As there are not more than half-a-dozen
eligible towns in Switzerland, and as we shall have exhausted two of them in less than half
a year, the living I make is a precarious one; in other words I shall soon be dead. Well, well!
A short life and a merry one, say I. You must admit a touch of subtle merriment in that word
"Genf."

To get to Geneva you provide yourself with a passport, a book of rail and steamer tickets,
a ticket for a seat in the Pulman car, a ticket for a berth in the sleeping-car and a ticket
for the registration of your luggage. In short, by the time you are in France you will have
had pass through your hands one passport and eleven tickets; and the first thing you will do
upon settling down into the French train is to compete and intrigue to get a twelfth ticket
for your lunch. You will find that this useless ticket will follow you all the way to Geneva
and will always assert itself when you are accosted by a ticket inspector. I even know a traveller
who arrived eventually at the Swiss frontier with no other paper of identity or justification;
for a passport which should have given his name, address, motive for travelling, shape of mouth,
size of nose and any other peculiarities, he could only tender documentary evidence of his
having eaten the nineteenth lunch of the first series of the day before.

Two things catch the eye about Geneva. In the first place it is on a lake, and in the second
place it is always brimful of International Unions, Leagues, Congresses and Conferences. The
lake is navigated in the season by a fleet of sizeable steamers, and one of these, a two-hundred
tonner, used to call every morning of the season at the little pier outside my house to take
me to business, and brought me back again every evening. By the pier rests an old, old man
whose only duty in life it is to catch the hawser as it is thrown from the incoming liner.
Twice a day for four months that hawser was thrown for the old man to catch, and twice a day
for four months he missed it. I spoke to him about this on the last day, and he showed a fine
courage which nothing can depress. Next season he means to try again. As he will be out of
a job in the interval I am plotting to secure for him the post of naval expert to the League.

Turning from the lake to the international delegates, who abound in Geneva, it is to be noted
that the last lot here were the International Congress of Leagues of Women. Their main agendum
was to pronounce their complete independence of men. One of these delegates went for a row
on the lake and fell in. She was pulled out again by a man.

You will find that Geneva was nominated as the seat of the League in the Peace Treaty of Versailles.
Ever since, the people of Geneva have been busy conjecturing what the League of Nations will
do upon its arrival in Geneva. It will do exactly what you and I would do in similar circumstances.
Stepping out of the station exit it will hurry off to its hotel. But when Leagues go to hotels
they buy the darned things outright. I don't know what they do about notices on the walls;
alter some and remove others, no doubt. The international delegates will be requested to ring
once for the political expert, twice for the military expert and three times for the naval
expert. If my old man gets the last-named job they will have to ring rather more than three
times if they want him to come up at once and discuss schemes for readjusting the various oceans.

As to the other usual decorations of hotel bedroom walls, the notice will be removed which
informs all concerned that the management will not be held responsible for valuables, unless
these be deposited in the office safe, though this will not be intended to indicate that the
new management has doubts as to the safety even of its own safe.

The "Hôtel National," which is the hotel in question, was in process of complete reconstruction
when the purchase took place. A bathroom has been annexed to every room. Presumably every international
delegate will have a suite allotted to his nation. The question I ask myself is this, Will
he put himself in the room and his secretaries in the bathroom, or himself in the bathroom
and the secretaries in the room? And the answer I make to myself is as follows: The delegate
will appoint the room to be his room and the bathroom to be his bathroom and will leave his
secretaries to make the best of things out in the corridor. The suggestion you will probably
make is that there are more suites of rooms than nations; that I must leave you to work out
for yourself. The number of suites of rooms is ascertainable, but no one seems able to inform
me how many nations there are. Personally every time I pick up a newspaper I seem to discover
a new one. However that may be, the nations are now all formed into their League, and may the
best one win the Cup Final, say I!

F. O. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=FOR THE CHILDREN.=

Mr. Punch comes once more, hat in hand, to beg for help in a good cause. This time he asks
the generous aid of his readers on behalf of the Victoria Home at Margate, of which Her Majesty
the QUEEN is Patroness. This Home cares for invalid children, from very little ones of only
a few months old, to boys of twelve years and girls of fifteen. There is room for between fifty
and sixty of them and they stay, on an average, for the best part of a year, during which they
receive careful medical attention, and have all their needs tended, body and mind. Many of
them have lost a leg or an arm and nearly all have some bandaged limb, yet, with these disabilities,
they contrive to learn the duties of a loyal Scout and are very proud of their uniform.

The cost of drugs, of surgical dressings and all house-keeping necessaries has risen enormously
and the Home is compelled to plead for further help. Mr. Punch invites his readers to send
for a report and see for themselves the very touching pictures which it gives, in an admirable
set of photographs, of the life of these children in their happy surroundings.

All communications and gifts should be addressed to the Secretary of the Victoria Home for
Invalid Children, at 75, Denison House, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Unknown Warrior."

WESTMINSTER ABBEY, NOVEMBER 11TH, 1920.

  Here lies a warrior, he alone
  Nameless among the named and known;
  None nobler, though by word and deed
  Nobly they served their country's need,
  And won their rest by right of worth
  Within this storied plot of earth.
  Great gifts to her they gave, but he--
  He gave his life to keep her free.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW JOURNALISM.

    ["In New York Mr. Harding leads by a figure something like
    the circulation of The Daily Mail. Pennsylvania gives him
    a majority which appears equal to the circulation of The
    Evening News. It is phenomenal."--The Evening News.]

The method which is being used just now by some of Mr. Punch's contemporaries to draw attention
to their circulations does not, it will be seen, tend to numerical nicety, though doubtless
it has its advantages from the advertising point of view. The following items of news are intelligently
anticipated.

       * * *

The licences cancelled in one district in Scotland, as a result of the recent local veto poll,
total exactly half the number of quires of "returns" of last week's Pawkiesheils Gazette. It
is insignificant.

       * * *

An analysis of the miners' votes in the Lancashire coalfield proves that there were as many
men in favour of rejecting the Government proposals as would have provided ten readers for
each copy sold (not merely printed) of the last issue of The Chowbent and Chequerbent Chronicle.
It is magnificent.

       * * *

It is estimated that, if three more distinguished statesmen and another woman of letters can
be prevailed upon to write piquant reviews of Mrs. ASQUITH'S autobiography, the sale of the
work will probably greatly exceed the numbers of copies of the latest Blue Book issued by H.M.
Stationery Office. It is unthinkable.

       * * *

It is confidently expected that, if the protests against a certain cinema plot can be sustained
for a few days longer, as many people will go to see the show in the first week as there are
feet in the film--without counting those who will sneak round for a free view of "The Stage
Door of the Diadem Theatre." It is good business.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An ex-Army officer was charged with stealing cooks valued at
    51/- from Messrs. ----'s."--Sunday Paper.

At that price they must have been very plain cooks.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

=ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.=

Monday, November 1st.--In response to a renewed demand for the Admiralty's account of the Battle
of Jutland the PRIME MINISTER made the remarkable statement that it was very difficult to get
"an official and impartial account," but he added that the Government were willing to publish
all the reports and despatches on the subject and leave the public to judge.

  Who shall decide, when Admirals disagree?
  Why, JULIAN CORBETT, or the great B.P.

Owing to the unexpectedly rapid passage through Committee of the Government of Ireland Bill
last Friday, the way was cleared for a number of British measures. Although dealing with the
most diverse subjects they were alike in one respect--without exception they incurred the hostility
of Sir F. BANBURY. Whether it was a proposal to reduce the dangers of employing women in lead
processes or to give married women in Scotland the same privileges as their English sisters
(including the duty of supporting an indigent husband), or to hold an Empire Exhibition, or
to set up Juvenile Courts, the hon. baronet found reason for opposing them all.

Once or twice he secured the support of Sir JOHN REES, but for the most part he was Athanasius
contra mundum, maintaining his equanimity even when Mr. HOGGE advised him to "marry a Scotswoman;"
or Lady ASTOR expressed her regret that he had not women, instead of bankers, for his constituents.

The Government had no reason to complain of his activity, which may indeed have prevented the
intrusion of more dangerous critics; for despite his efforts every Bill went through.

Tuesday, November 2nd.--The most striking thing in Lord LOREBURN'S speech upon Irish affairs
seemed to me to be his uncompromising declaration that he was "no supporter of Mr. ASQUITH."
He endorsed, however, his former chief's demand for an independent inquiry into the reprisals,
but his motion was defeated by 44 to 13.

Ever since Sir W. JOYNSON-HICKS defeated Mr. CHURCHILL at Manchester he has felt it his duty
to keep on his track. Convinced that our policy in Mesopotamia is due to the WAR MINISTER'S
megalomania he is most anxious to bring him to book. The prospect of a Supplementary Estimate
for the Army seemed likely to furnish the desired occasion. But when he pressed Mr. CHURCHILL
on the subject the alleged spendthrift airily replied that there was no hurry; "I do not immediately
require money."

The gloom of the daily Irish catechism was a little brightened by an interchange of pleasantries
between Mr. STANTON and Mr. JACK JONES. On this occasion the latter had rather the best of
it. "Golliwog!" he shouted in allusion to his opponent's luxuriant chevelure. Mr. STANTON could
think of no better retort than the stereotyped "Bolshie!" and when Mr. JONES rejoined with
"You ought to be put into Madame Tussaud's" Mr. STANTON was reduced to silence. But is it not
a scandal that these entertaining comedians should only get four hundred a year?

On the Agriculture Bill Sir A. GRIFFITH-BOSCAWEN was faced with an urgent demand for a separate
Wages Board for Wales. First he wouldn't; it would be "an exceedingly inconvenient and expensive
arrangement." But the Welshmen were so insistent that he changed his mind, and when the vigilant
Sir FREDERICK BANBURY challenged the new clause on the ground that it would impose a fresh
charge on the Exchequer Sir ARTHUR was able to convince the SPEAKER that, though there would
be "additional expenditure," there would be no "fresh charge." Such are the nice distinctions
of our Parliamentary system.

Wednesday, November 3rd.--When Mr. CHURCHILL, some sixteen years ago, crossed the floor of
the House, his man[oe]uvre was regarded as a portent, and men talked of "a sinking ship." It
cannot be said that Lord HENRY BENTINCK'S sudden appearance among the Labour Members created
anything like the same sensation, even though he was joined a little later by Mr. OSWALD MOSLEY.
Lord HENRY has always derived his political opinions rather from his heart than his head, and
has lately developed a habit of firing explosive Questions at Ministers from his eyrie behind
their backs. They will probably find his frontal attacks less disconcerting.

While Lord HENRY was in the House, off and on, for thirty-four years before discovering that
he was on the wrong side, Mr. MOSLEY has made the same discovery after an experience of barely
as many weeks. From his new perch he inquired this afternoon if Government cement was being
sent abroad, to the detriment of British builders. Dr. ADDISON contented himself with professing
ignorance of any such transaction. A less serious Minister might have replied that the Government
needed all their cement to mend the cracks in the Coalition.

News that the coal-strike was over reached the House during the evening. Mr. BRIDGEMAN, always
cautious, "understood" that the men had been "recommended" to go back to work. Mr. ADAMSON,
fresh from the Conference, was much more downright. "The strike," he said, "has been declared
off, and the men return to work." So that's that.

Thursday, November 4th.--Lord SALISBURY'S complaint that the Government's policy in Egypt was
shrouded in more than Egyptian darkness brought a spirited reply from Lord CURZON, who declared
that every stage in the negotiations had been fully revealed in the Press. If no definite decision
as to the future government of the country had been published that was simply because the Cabinet
had not yet had time to make up its collective mind. Judging by Lord MILNER'S subsequent account
of his Mission, it would appear that the process will be long and stormy. The Mission went
to Cairo to sound the feeling of the Nationalists, but for all practical purposes they might
as well have stopped in London, where they ultimately interviewed ZAGHLUL PASHA and his colleagues,
and obtained information which materially altered and softened their previous views. The best
Nationalists were not anti-British, but simply pro-Egyptian. Lord MILNER'S final appeal, that
his piece should not be hissed off the stage before it had been heard, sounded a little ominous.

Mr. L'ESTRANGE MALONE is not very popular in the House of Commons just now. When he rose to
address a "Supplementary" to the WAR MINISTER he was so persistently "boo-ed" that the SPEAKER
had to intervene to secure him a hearing. Mr. LOWTHER probably repented his kindness when it
appeared that Mr. MALONE had nothing more urgent to say than that Mr. CHURCHILL would be better
employed in looking after the troops in Ireland than in reviewing books for The Daily Mail.

