But if rose-colored accounts of the freed negro are to be dismissed unceremoniously, on the
other hand, the malignant representations which Mr. Carlyle seems to find such a relish in
believing deserve to be branded as both false and wicked. His mythical negro, up to the ears
in 'pumpkin,' working half an hour a day, and not to be tempted by love or money to work more,
would have been, during my whole residence in the island, as great a curiosity to me as an
ornithorhynchus. Doubtless something approaching to the phenomenon can be found; for a young
Scotchman, a friend of mine, who was appointed to take the census of a secluded district, came
to me after visiting it, and gave me an account of the people he had found in the bush, answering
pretty nearly to Mr. Carlyle's description. But though he had been in the island from a boy,
he spoke of it with something of the surprise attending a new discovery. I should state, however,
that my residence was in a district mostly occupied by small freeholders, and containing but
few estates. In planting districts the number of worthless, idle negroes is much larger. I
have been assured that the negroes of the parish of Vere are peculiarly so. The men, I have
been told, do scarcely any work, except in crop time; the women do none at all, not even to
keep their houses neat. There is scarcely a cottage in the parish that has a bread-fruit or
a cocoanut tree on its ground.[3] Everything is dirty and forlorn. On the other hand, in Metcalfe
and the adjoining parts of St. Andrew, and St. Thomas in the Vale, although the mass of the
working people have certainly not learned much about comfort yet, still the number of neat,
floored, and glazed houses, the fruit trees on almost every negro plot, the neat hibiscus hedges,
with their gay red flowers, surrounding even the poorer huts, the small cane fields and coffee
pieces noticeable at every turn, and the absence of loungers about the cottages, go to make
up a very different picture from what has been drawn of Vere. It is plain, then, that the impressions
which travellers bring away with them from Jamaica will vary almost to entire opposition, according
to the quarters they have visited. Now what is the cause of these glaring contrasts? The negro
character is remarkably uniform. If there are great differences among them, every one that
knows them will ascribe it to a difference in circumstances. What is the difference then between
Metcalfe and Vere? Simply this: Metcalfe is the home of small freeholders; Vere is a sugar
parish, where the estates are in prosperous activity. It has been less affected by emancipation
than any other parish. In Metcalfe the negroes are independent; in Vere they are completely
subject to the planters. It is said that not even an ounce of sugar is permitted to be sold
in the parish. All is for exportation. If the writer then attempts to vindicate the character
of the blacks from the reproaches of incurable laziness and unthriftiness that have been cast
upon it, he wishes it to be understood that he speaks only for the freeholders, who have homes
of their own, which they have an inducement to improve and beautify, and who have land of their
own which no dishonest motive prompts them to neglect, and for the estate laborers whose condition
most nearly resembles theirs. If the blacks on many plantations are little disposed to adorn
homes from which they may be ejected at any time; if they are discouraged from the minor industries
essential to comfort, lest these should interfere with the grosser labor required of them;
if they are kept idle out of crop time for fear they should not be available in crop time;
if their mental improvement is discouraged by the planter instinct, unchanged in nature though
circumscribed in scope; if on many estates they are herded in barracks whose promiscuous life
debases still lower their already low morality; if their labors are directed for absentee masters
by hired overseers, whose interest is not to create a wholesome confidence between laborers
and proprietors, but to get the most they can out of them during their own term of employment;
if they are treated with the old slaveholding arrogance, embittered by the consciousness of
a check; and if thereby the more self-respecting are driven off, and the more abject-spirited
who remain are rendered still more abject: I submit it is not fair to argue from this class
of semi-slaves to the character of those who are really free, who call no man master, who have
a chance to be men if they will, unhampered except by the general depressing influences that
will always work in a country where slavery has lately existed, and where the slaveholding
class have still a predominant social and political influence. And it is to be noted that Carlyle's
picture is drawn from the neighborhood of a plantation, and so are Trollope's. Mr. Trollope,
it is true, takes all imaginable pains to write himself down an ass. By his own ostentatious
confessions, the only intellectual comprehensiveness to which he can lay claim is an astonishingly
comprehensive ignorance. In view of this, his sage discoursings upon grave questions of political
and social economy have about as comical an effect as the moralizings of a harlequin. But he
is a lively describer of what passes under his eyes, and his sketches of what he heard and
saw among the planters and on the plantations are doubtless authentic. However, he did not
visit the small settlers; and to take pains to inform himself of the condition of a class of
the population which he was not among, except by catching up the dinner-table maledictions
of his planting friends against the class which they hate most, as being least dependent on
them, would be of course entirely contrary to his professed superficiality.

There are but two recent works of much value on emancipation in Jamaica--Underhill's and Sewell's.
The work of Mr. Underhill, although, as a delegate of a missionary society which had much to
do in bringing about emancipation, he might be supposed to have a strong party interest, is
marked by an impartial caution which entitles it to great respect and confidence.[4]

As to Mr. Sewell's book, it is marvellous how he could obtain so clear an insight in so short
a time into the true condition of things. The paucity of statistical facts, however, plagued
him, as it does every writer on Jamaica; and while the delinquencies of the planters are patent
and palpable, he could not appreciate so well as a resident the difficulties arising from the
provoking treacherousness of the negro character.

It is known by most, who do not choose to remain conveniently ignorant, that though the ruin
of Jamaican planting prosperity has been accelerated by emancipation, it had been steadily
going on for more than a generation previous. In 1792 the Jamaica Assembly represented to Parliament
that in the twenty years previous one hundred and seventy-seven estates had been sold for debt.
In 1800, it is stated in the Hon. Richard Hill's interesting little book, 'Lights and Shadows
of Jamaica History,' judgments had been recorded against estates in the island to the enormous
amount of £33,000,000. In the five years before the slave trade was abolished in 1807, sixty-five
estates had been given up. Against the abolition of the slave trade the Assembly made the most
urgent remonstrances, representing that it would be impossible to keep up the supply of labor
without it. In other words, the slaves were worked to death so rapidly that natural increase
alone would not maintain their number. The result justified their prediction.[5] In 1804, it
appears that there were eight hundred and fifty-nine sugar estates in operation in the island.
In 1834 there were six hundred and forty-six. In 1854 there were three hundred and thirty.
Thus it appears that in the thirty years previous to the abolition of slavery, one quarter
of the estates in operation at the beginning of that term had been abandoned, and in the twenty
years succeeding abolition one half of those remaining had been given up. It is certainly no
wonder that so great a social shock as emancipation, coming upon a tottering fabric, hastened
its fall. But the foregoing facts show that, in the language of Mr. Underhill, 'ruin has been
the chronic condition of Jamaica ever since the beginning of the century.'

The distinguished historian of the island, Bryan Edwards, himself a planter, and opposed to
the abolition of the slave trade, describes the sugar cultivation, even before the supply of
labor from Africa was cut off, as precarious in the highest degree, a mere lottery, and often,
he says, 'a millstone around the neck of the unfortunate proprietor.' That this was from no
invincible necessity, the uniform prosperity of numerous estates shows. But these estates are
all conducted economically, while, on the other hand, reckless extravagance was the rule in
the palmy days of the olden time, and has remained, even in humbler circumstances, an inborn
trait of the Creole gentleman.

If this was so during the continuance of the slave trade, what could have been looked for when
this means of obtaining labor was suddenly cut off? Sewell states the estimated supply of negroes
from Africa necessary to make up the annual waste at ten thousand. When this ceased it was
obvious that only such a complete revolution in the system of labor as should save the horrible
waste of life could preserve the plantations from ruin and the island from depopulation. But
though the waste of life was diminished, it still went on. Estate after estate had to be given
up for want of hands, at the same time that a constant decrease in the price of sugar in London,
amounting to fifty per cent between 1815 and 1835, made it less and less profitable to work
the remaining ones, and thus the planters were going steadily to ruin and the negro population
steadily to extinction, for almost a generation before emancipation. In a memorial of the planters
to Parliament in 1831, three years before abolition, they declare that without Parliamentary
aid they are doomed to hopeless ruin. Already, they say, hundreds of respectable persons had
been reduced almost to beggary by the precarious condition of the planting interest. In this
memorial they make no allusion to the anti-slavery agitations, which produced no serious effect
in the colony till 1832. Indeed the West Indian interest had been a notorious mendicant of
old, and as in time a large part of West Indian estates had come to be owned by the British
aristocracy, this begging was not apt to be in vain. Could Creole thriftlessness have been
abolished and the slave trade retained, the ruin of the estates might have been averted. But
as human power was not adequate to the first, nor Christian conscience capable of the second,
no course was left but to let planting prosperity go its own way to destruction, and endeavor
at least to save the population of the island from extermination. This emancipation effected,
and this was its work. If it hastened the ruin of an interest which not even Parliamentary
subsidies and high protective duties could prop up without the horrors of the middle passage,
its trespass was certainly a very venial one compared with its work of salvation. Undoubtedly
the great transition from slavery to freedom might have been better managed had the planters,
recognizing it as inevitable, concurred heartily in efforts to smoothe the passage. The emancipationists
in Parliament had at first no thought of immediate or even of speedy abolition. They did not
suppose it wise or humane. Their first efforts merely contemplated such ameliorations of the
condition of the slaves as common decency and humanity would prompt. They brought the Imperial
Government to propose to the slaveholding colonies the enactment of laws abolishing the flogging
of females, mitigating punishments, allowing the slaves to testify in court in cases to which
whites were parties, providing for their religious instruction, appointing guardians of their
scanty rights, giving them one week day for themselves, and restricting arbitrary sales of
slaves. Not one of the colonies would agree to a single one of these measures. That peculiar
obstinacy which slaveholding dominion seems to engender, made them, as with us, bent on having
all or nothing. All hopes of instituting a gradual preparation for freedom being thus defeated
by the stubborn refusal of the slaveholders to concur, speedy emancipation became a necessity.
But even yet the abolitionists had not learned that if slaves are to be set free from their
masters, the more quickly they are put out of their hands the better. A muzzled wolf, appointed
to keep sheep he would much rather eat, would make about as amiable a custodian as masters
allowed to exercise a limited authority over bondmen whom they have hitherto always had at
their own will, and know they are about to lose altogether. I think it is generally agreed
that the few years of apprenticeship were more plague than profit to all parties, and made
the alienation between proprietors and laborers still more complete. At the same time, as the
hours of labor were limited to eight, and Saturday was secured to the apprentices for themselves,
the negroes fell into a way of thinking that they could only work those eight hours anyhow,
and must have an idle time on the Saturday; and this notion continued to foster indolence for
a good while after they were their own masters. The short time, too, which the planters knew
they should have them at their control, naturally stimulated them to make the most of them
meanwhile. One gentleman in Metcalfe, for instance, laid out a thousand acres of coffee on
a newly enlarged property, and gave orders to transfer a gang of negroes from an estate of
his some twelve miles distant. The negroes cling like oysters to their birthplace, and they
flatly refused to leave their grounds and their friends. The master summoned policemen, and
had them cruelly flogged till they consented to go. Apprenticeship was abolished two years
earlier than he had reckoned on, and the laborers thus forcibly transferred left him then in
a body, and the thousand acres of coffee went to ruin. Had some Trollope chanced then to be
travelling through that quarter, and been entertained by the disappointed proprietor with all
the noble bounteousness which distinguished him, we can easily imagine how this fact would
have figured in his book, as a proof of unconquerable negro laziness.

It was peculiarly unfortunate for Jamaica at this juncture, that the estates were mostly managed
by attorneys and overseers for absentee landlords. Middlemen, it is said, ruined Ireland, and
it is certain that they have helped mightily to ruin Jamaica. If attorneys had been ever so
honest, how could they be efficient, when one attorney had very commonly the charge of four,
six, ten, or even fourteen estates? If he paid a hasty visit to each one once in two years
he did well. And as to overseers, how could honesty be expected when common morality was not
permitted? It was a rule, having almost the force of law, that an overseer, if he married,
was at once dismissed.[6] Loose licentiousness and loose dishonesty are very apt to go hand
in hand, and it is certain that they did in Jamaica. A saying still in use among the whites
of the island illustrates the standard of integrity: 'Make me your executor, and I do not ask
you to make me your heir.' No wonder that estates went down like a row of bricks, one after
another, when they had such managers. Had Jamaica been occupied at the time of emancipation
by a resident proprietary, it is not likely that even they could have so far overcome their
despotic habits and contempt for the negro as to treat the laboring population with fairness,
and what they value still more, with decent respect. But still less could it be expected of
the overseers that they would exercise foresight and self-control enough to retain the good
will of the blacks. They had all the feelings of slaveholders, aggravated by more direct contact
with the slaves, while their interest only bound them to make the most out of the estates during
their own term of employment, no matter if they took a course that would ruin them eventually.
Besides, an overseer must have been often tempted to work on the fears of a proprietor, just
after emancipation, to persuade him to sell the estate to him; and many a one would not hesitate
to ruin the property to bring down its price to his own means, knowing that the sale of the
land or its conversion to pasturage would reimburse him.

