AUCASSIN AND NICOLETTE

TRANSLATED FROM THE OLD FRENCH

BY FRANCIS WILLIAM BOURDILLON

LONDON KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO. LTD.

DRYDEN HOUSE, GERRARD STREET, W. 1908

All rights reserved

INTRODUCTION

The story of Love, that simple theme with variations ad libitum, ad infinitum, is never old,
never stale, never out-of-date.  And as we sometimes seek rest from the brilliant audacities
and complex passions of Wagner or Tschaikowsky in the tender simplicity of some ancient English
air, so we occasionally turn with relief from the wit and insight and subtlety of our modern
novelists to the old uncomplicated tales of faerie or romance, and find them after all more
moving, more tender, even more real, than all the laboured realism of these photographic days.
And here before us is of all pretty love-stories perhaps the prettiest.  Idyllic as Daphnis
and Chloe, romantic as Romeo and Juliet, tender as Undine, remote as Cupid and Psyche, yet
with perpetual touches of actual life, and words that raise pictures; and lightened all through
with a dainty playfulness, as if Ariel himself had hovered near all the time of its writing,
and Puck now and again shot a whisper of suggestion.

Yet it is only of late years that the charm of this story has been truly appreciated.  Composed
probably in Northern France, about the close of the twelfth century,--the time of our own Angevin
kings and the most brilliant period of Old-French literature,--it has survived only in a single
manuscript of later date, where it is found hidden among a number of tales in verse less pleasing
in subject and far less delightful in form.  There it had lain unknown till discovered by M.
de Sainte-Palaye, and printed by him in modernised French in 1752, one hundred and fifty years
ago.  There is no space here to follow its fortunes since.  Even after this revival it was
not till more than one hundred years later that it began to attain to any wide recognition.
And in England this recognition has been mainly due to Mr Pater's delightful essay in his early
work "Studies in the History of the Renaissance."  Since the publication of this book in 1873,
the story of Aucassin and Nicolette has had an ever-growing train of admirers both in England
and America, and various translations have appeared on both sides of the Atlantic.  It has
also been translated into several other European languages, besides versions in modern French.

The story, so far as the simple old-world plot is concerned, is very probably not the original
invention of whoever gave it this particular form, any more than were the plots of Shakespeare's
plays of his own devising.  It seems likely that in origin it is Arabian or Moorish, and its
birthplace not Provence but Spain.  Possibly it sprung, as so much of the best poetry and story
has sprung, from the touching of two races, and the part friction part fusion of two religions,
in this case of the Moor and the Christian.  There was in 1019 a Moorish king of Cordova named
Alcazin.  Turn this name into French and we have Aucassin.  And to reverse the roles of Christian
and heathen is a very usual device for a story-teller transplanting a story from another country
to his own. Though the scene is nominally laid in Provence there are a good many signs of a
Spanish origin in the places mentioned.  By Carthage is meant, not the city of Dido, but Carthagena;
and thus the husband devised for Nicolette is "one of the greatest kings in all Spain."  Valence
again might originally have been not the Valence on the Rhone, but Valence le grand, or Valentia.
And it is curious to observe that Beaucaire is closely connected with Tarascon--a bridge across
the Rhone unites them--and that this latter name nearly resembles Tarragona, a place which
in other French romances is actually called Terrascoigne.  The shipwreck which in the story
takes place, impossibly, at Beaucaire, may have originally happened, quite naturally, at Tarragona.
Even the nonsense- name, Torelore, might easily have had its rise in Torello.  Again, though
it has been shown that all modern reports of the Couvade as existing in Biscay have been founded
only on the ancient assertion of Strabo, it is still remarkable that it is in this part of
Europe alone that the custom has ever been found.

If the composer of Aucassin derived his story from such a source, it is easy to see also whence
he got the idea of the special form he has given it; for a narrative in prose mingled with
interludes of verse, though strange to European literature, is common in Arabian.

And yet, whatever his sources or his models, one feels that his debt to them is trifling compared
to the worth of his own work.  All that he describes he has seen with his own eyes; and all
that he tells, be it borrowed or invented, is quickened and heightened and made immortal by
his own touch upon it.

All who can should read this story in its own language--the simple easy- flowing Old-French,
with its infantile syntax, and naive but effective efforts at distinction and what we now call
style.  There are various editions of the old French text; but the two easiest to get and also
to read are that of Professor Suchier, and my own.  Those in search of learning will always
turn to Germany, and Suchier is a very learned man. But I can honestly advise all English readers
to get my edition (Macmillan, 1897) in which the text is given as pure as I could draw it from
the fountain head, the original MS. at Paris; where the music to the verse sections will be
found printed in its proper notation; and which contains also a literal translation, full notes,
and a glossary.

The present translation varies a good deal from that I printed with the Old-French text.  I
have to some extent relaxed the restrictions I imposed on myself there, and have given freer
turns, even verging occasionally on paraphrase, to bring out the full meaning, which it is
often possible to miss in the original, especially in the very condensed style of the verses.
These changes will, I hope, make this version easy and pleasant to read even by those who have
no leisure or no inclination to attempt the study of the Old-French itself.

AUCASSIN & NICOLETTE

'TIS OF AUCASSIN AND OF NICOLETTE

Who would list a pleasant lay,
Pastime of the old and grey?
Of two lovers, children yet,
Aucassin and Nicolette;
Of the sorrows he went through,
Of the great things he did do,
All for his bright favoured may.
Sweet the song is, fair the say,
Full of art and full of grace.
There is none in such ill case,
Sad with sorrow, waste with care,
Sick with sadness, if he hear,
But shall in the hearing be
Whole again and glad with glee,
   So sweet the story.

Here they speak and tell the story.

How Bulgarius Count of Valence made war upon Warren Count of Beaucaire. And this war was so
great, so marvellous, and so mortal, that not a day dawned but there he was before the city,
at the gates, at the walls, at the fences, with knights a hundred and men-at-arms ten thousand
on foot and on horse; and he burned his land, laid waste his country, and slew his liegemen.
Warren, Count of Beaucaire, was an old man and feeble, who had overlived his term.  He had
none to succeed him, neither son nor daughter, save one only boy; and what he was like, I will
tell you. Aucassin was the young lord's name, and a pretty lad he was.  He had golden hair
in little curls, and laughing blue eyes, a face fair of colour and fine of curve, and a proud
shapely nose.  Aye, so endued was he with good conditions that there was none bad in him, but
good only. But so overcome was he of Love, who masters all, that he refused knighthood, abjured
arms, shunned the tourney, and left undone all his devoir.

His father and his mother would say to him: "Son! come, take thine arms and to horse!  Fight
for thy land and succour thy liegemen!  If they see thee in the midst of them, they will fight
the better for their lives and their havings and for thy land and mine!"

"Father," said Aucassin, "to what purpose is this oration?  Never God give me ought that I
ask of Him, if I take knighthood or mount horse, if I face fight or battlefield to smite knight
or be myself smitten, if you give me not Nicolette, my sweet friend whom I love so well!"

"My son," said his father, "it cannot be.  Have done with Nicolette!  She is a slave-girl,
carried captive from a foreign land.  The Viscount of this place bought her of the heathen,
and brought her here.  He held her at the font, and christened her, and stood godfather to
her.  Some day he will give her a young fellow to win bread for her in wedlock.  What is this
to you?  If you want a wife, I will give you a king's daughter or a count's.  There is never
so rich a man in France but you shall have his daughter, if you want her."

"Alack, father!" said Aucassin.  "Where now is honour on earth so high, which Nicolette my
sweet friend would not grace if it were hers?  Were she Empress of Constantinople or of Germany,
were she Queen of France or of England, there were but little in it, so noble is she and gracious
and debonair and endued with all good conditions."

Here they sing.

Aucassin was of Beaucaire; His was the fine castle there; But on slender Nicolette Past man's
moving is he set, Whom his father doth refuse; Menace did his mother use:

"Out upon thee, foolish boy! Nicolette is but a toy, Castaway from Carthagen, Bought a slave
of heathen men. If for marrying thou be, Take a wife of high degree!"

"Mother, I will none but her.
Hath she not the gentle air,
Grace of limb, and beauty bright?
I am snared in her delight.
If I love her 'tis but meet,
   So passing sweet!"

Here they speak and tell the story.

When Warren Count of Beaucaire perceived that Aucassin his son was not to be moved from his
love of Nicolette, he betook him to the Viscount of the place, who was his liegeman; and addressed
him thus:

"Sir Viscount, come, rid me of Nicolette your god-daughter!  A curse on the land whence ever
she was fetched to this country!  Now Aucassin is lost to me, and all because of her.  He refuses
knighthood and leaves undone all his devoir.  Rest assured that if I can get hold of her I
will burn her in a fire; and for yourself too you may fear the worst."

"Sir," said the Viscount, "'tis grief to me that he go to her, or come to her, or speak to
her.  I had bought her with my poor pieces.  I had held her at the font, and christened her,
and stood god-father to her; and I would have given her a young fellow to win bread for her
in wedlock.  What is this to Aucassin your son?  But seeing your will is so and your good pleasure,
I will send her to such a land and to such a country that he shall never set eyes on her more."

"See you do so!" said Count Warren.  "Else it might go ill with you."

Thus they parted.  Now the Viscount was a very rich man, and had a fine palace with a garden
before it.  He had Nicolette put in a room there, on an upper storey, with an old woman for
company; and he had bread put there, and meat and wine and all they needed.  Then he had the
door locked, so that there was no way to get in or out.  Only there was a window of no great
size which looked on the garden and gave them a little fresh air.

Here they sing.

