The Meaning of "Race" in Ship-building.--In Hawkin's Voyages ("Hakluyt Society, 1847"), p.
199., he says, "Here is offerred to speak of a point much canvassed amongst carpenters and
sea-captains, diversely maintained but yet undetermined, that is, whether the race, or loftie
built shippe, bee best for the merchant;" and again, p. 219.: "A third and last cause of the
losse of sundry of our men, most worthy of note for all captains, owners, and carpenters, was
the race building of our ship, the onely fault she had," &c. Can any of your correspondents
explain what is meant by "race"; the editor of the Voyages, Captain C. R. D. Bethune, R.N.,
confesses himself unable to explain it.

E. N. W.

Southwark, May 27. 1850.

The Battle of Death.--I possess a curious old print entitled "The Battle of Death against all
Creatures, and the Desolation wrought by Time." It bears the engraver's name, "Robert Smith,"
but no date. The figures, however, which are numerous, and comprise all ranks, seem to present
the costume of the latter end of the 16th century. There is a long inscription in verse, and
another in prose: query, who was the author of the verses, and what is the date of the engraving?
As I am on the subject of prints, perhaps some person learned in such matters will also be
kind enough to inform me what number constitutes a complete series of the engravings after
Claude by Francis Vivares; and who was "Jean Rocque, Chirographaire du Roi," who executed several
maps of portions of London, also a map of Kilkenny?

X. Y. A.

Kilkenny, June 8. 1850.

Execution of Charles I.--Is the name of the executioner known who beheaded King Charles I.?
Is there any truth in the report that it was an Earl Stair?

P. S. W. E.

Morganitic Marriage.--In Ducange, &c., the adjective morganitic is connected with the morgangab
(morning gift), which was usual from a husband to his wife the day after their marriage. How
comes this adjective to be applied to marriages in which the wife does not take her husband's rank?

M.

Lord Bacon's Palace and Gardens.--Will any of your architectural or landscape gardening readers
inform me whether any attempts were ever made by any of our English sovereigns or nobility,
or by any of our rich men of science and taste, to carry out, in practice, Lord Bacon's plans
of a princely palace, or a prince-like garden, as so graphically and so beautifully described
in his Essays, xlv. and xlvi., "Of Building" and "Of Gardens"?

I cannot but think that if such an attempt was never made, the failure is discreditable to
us as a nation; and that this work ought yet to be executed, as well for its own intrinsic
beauty and excellence, as in honour of the name and fame of its great proposer.

EFFARESS.

June 24. 1850.

"Dies Iræ, Dies Illa."--Will any of your correspondents oblige me by answering the following
Queries. Who was the author of the extremely beautiful hymn, commencing--

 "Dies iræ, dies illa,
  Solvet soeclum in favilla
  Teste David cum Sibylla."

And in what book was it first printed?

A copy of it is contained in a small tract in our library, entitled Lyrica Sacra, excerpta
ex Hymnis Ecclesiæ Antiquis. Privatim excusa Romæ, 1818. At the end of the preface is subscribed
"T. M. Anglus." And on the title page in MS., "For the Rev. Dr. Milner, Dean of Carlisle, Master
of Queen's College, in the University of Cambridge, from T. J. Mathia--" the rest of the name
has been cut off in binding; it was probably Mathias. As here given, it has only twenty-seven
lines. The original hymn is, I believe, much longer.

W. SPARROW SIMPSON.

Queen's College, Cambridge.

Aubrey Family.--In Burke's Peerage and Baronetage, under the head "Aubrey," I find the following
passage:--

    "Vincent, Windsor Herald in the time of Elizabeth, compiled a pedigree
    of the family of Aubrey, which he commences thus:--'Saint Aubrey, of
    the blood royal of France, came into England with William the
    Conqueror, anno 1066, as the Chronicles of All Souls College testify,
    which are there to be seen tied to a chain of iron.'"

Can any of your readers give me any information respecting this "Saint Aubrey," whose name
I have not been able to find in the Roll of Battle {73} Abbey: or respecting his son, Sir Reginald
Aubrey, who aided Bernard de Newmarch in the conquest of the Marches of Wales, and any of his
descendants?

PWCCA.

Ogden Family.--The writer is very desirous of information as to the past history of a family
of the name of Ogden. Dr. Samuel Ogden, the author of a volume of sermons, published in 1760,
was a member of it. A branch of the family emigrated to America about 1700, and still exists
there. They yet bear in their crest allusion to a tradition, that one of their family hid Charles
II. in an oak, when pursued by his enemies. What authority is there for this story? I shall
be grateful for any indications of sources of information that may seem likely to aid my researches.

TWYFORD.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

SIR GEORGE BUC.

It has often been noticed, that when a writer wishes to support some favourite hypothesis,
he quite overlooks many important particulars that militate against his own view of the case.
The Rev. Mr. Corser, in his valuable communication respecting Sir George Buc (Vol. ii., p.
38.), is not exempt from this accusation. He has omitted the statement of Malone, that "Sir
George Buc died on the 28th of September, 1623." (Boswell's Shakspeare, iii. 59.) We know positively
that in May 1622, Sir George, "by reason of sickness and indisposition of body, wherewith it
hath pleased God to visit him, was become disabled and insufficient to undergo and perform"
the duties of Master of the Revels; and it is equally positive that Malone would not so circumstantially
have said, "Sir George Buc died on the 28th of September, 1623," without some good authority
for so doing. It is only to be regretted that the learned commentator neglected to give that
authority.

Mr. Corser wishes to show that Sir George Buc's days "were further prolonged till 1660;" but
I think he is in error as to his conclusions, and that another George Buc must enter the field
and divide the honours with his knightly namesake.

It is perfectly clear that a George Buc was living long after the date assigned as that of
the death of Sir George, by Malone. This George Buck, for so he invariably spells his name,
contributed a copy of verses to Yorke's Union of Honour, 1640; to Shirley's Poems, 1646; and
to the folio edition of Beaumont and Fletcher's Plays, 1647. Ritson, then, when speaking of
Sir George Buc's Great Plantagenet, as published in 1635, was rather hasty in pronouncing it
as the work of "some fellow who assumed his name," because here is evidence that a person of
the same name (if not Sir George himself, as Mr. Corser thinks) was living at the period. The
name, if assumed in the case of the Great Plantagenet, would hardly have been kept up in the
publications just alluded to.

In the British Museum, among the Cotton MSS. (Tiberius, E. X.), is preserved a MS. called "The
history of King Richard the Third, comprised in five books, gathered and written by Sir G.
Buc, Knight, Master of the King's Office of the Revels, and one of the gentlemen of his Majesty's
Privy Chamber." This MS., which appears to have been the author's rough draft, is corrected
by interlineations and erasements in every page. It is much injured by fire, but a part of
the dedication to Sir Thomas Howard, the Earl of Arundel, &c., still remains, together with
"an advertisement to the reader," which is dated "from the King's Office of the Revels, St.
Peter's Hill, 1619." This history was first published in 1646, by George Buck, Esquire, who
says, in his dedication to Philip, the Earl of Pembroke and Montgomery, "that he had collected
these papers out of their dust." Here is evidence that the work was not published by the original
compiler; besides, how can Mr. Corser reconcile his author's knighthood with the designations
on the respective title-pages of The Great Plantagenet, and The History of Richard the Third?
In the former the writer is styled "George Buck, Esquire," and in the latter, "George Buck,
Gentleman." It is difficult to account for Mr. Corser's omission of these facts, because I
am well assured, that, with his extensive knowledge of our earlier poets, my information is
not new to him.

That there were two George Bucs in the seventeenth century, and both of them poets, cannot,
I think, be doubted. Perhaps they were not even relations; at any rate, Mr. Corser's account
of the parentage of one differs from mine entirely.

    "He [Sir George Buc] was born at Ely, the eldest son of Robert Bucke,
    and Elizabeth, the daughter of Peter Lee of Brandon Ferry; the grandson
    of Robert Bucke, and Jane, the daughter of Clement Higham; the
    great-grandson of Sir John Bucke, who, having helped Richard to a horse
    on Bosworth Field, was attainted for his zeal."--Chalmers' Apology,
    p. 488.

The MS. now in Mr. Corser's possession occurs in the Bibliotheca Heberiana, Part xi. No. 98.,
and I observe, by referring to that volume, that the compiler has the following note:--

    "This MS. is entirely in the handwriting of Sir George Buck, Master of
    the Revels in the reign of James I., as prepared by him for
    publication. The initials G. B. correspond with those of his name, and
    the handwriting is similar to a MS. Dedication of his poem to Lord
    Chancellor Egerton, which is preserved at Bridgewater House."

The authorship of The Famous History of St. George, then, rests solely upon the initials "G.
B.," and the similarity of the handwriting to that of {74} Sir George Buc. Now it must be remembered
that the MS. dedication was written in 1605, and the history after 1660! Surely an interval
of fifty-five years must have made some difference in the penmanship of the worthy Master of
the Revels. I think we must receive the comparison of handwritings with considerable caution;
and, unless some of your readers can produce "new evidence" in favour of one or other of the
claimants, I much fear that your reverend correspondent will have to exclaim with Master Ford
in the play,--

 "Buck. I would I could wash myself of the Buck!"

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

I am not quite certain that I can satisfactorily answer Mr. Corser's query; but at least I
am able to show that a Sir George Buck, seised in fee of lands in Lincolnshire, did die in
or about 1623. In the Report Office of the Court of Chancery is a Report made to Lord Keeper
Williams by Sir Wm. Jones, who had been Lord Chief Justice in Ireland, dated the 10th Nov.
1623, respecting a suit referred to him by the Lord Keeper, in which Stephen Buck was plaintiff
and Robert Buck defendant. In this report is contained a copy of the will of Sir George Buck,
whom I supposed to be the Sir George Buck, the master of the Revels; and the will containing
a singular clause, disinheriting his brother Robert because he was alleged to be a Jesuit,
and it having been supposed that Sir George Buck died intestate, I published an extract from
it in my Acta Cancellariæ (Benning, 1847). On further examination of the whole of the document
in question, I find it distinctly stated, and of course that statement was made on evidence
adduced, that Sir George Buck was seised in fee of certain lands and tenements in Boston and
Skydbrooke, both of which places, I need scarcely say, are in Lincolnshire. It is therefore,
at least, not improbable that the testator was a native of Lincolnshire. It also appears that
the proceedings in Chancery were instituted previously to June, 1623; and, inasmuch as Sir
George Buck's will is recited in those proceedings, he must have died before they were commenced,
and not in September, 1623, as I once supposed. It may, perhaps, aid Mr. Corser's researches
to know that the will (which is not to be found at Doctors' Commons) mentions, besides the
brother Robert, a sister, Cecilia Buck, who had a son, Stephen, who had a son, George Buck,
whom his great uncle, Sir George, made ultimate heir to his lands in Lincolnshire.

CECIL MONRO.

Registrars' Office, Court of Chancery.

       *       *       *       *       *

"A FROG HE WOULD A-WOOING GO."

Your SEXAGENARIAN who dates from "Shooter's Hill," has not hit the mark when he suggests that
Anna Bouleyn's marriage with Henry VIII. (in the teeth of the Church) is the hidden mystery
of the popular old song,--

 "Sir Frog he would a-wooing go,
  Whether his mother was willing or no." Might not the
madcap adventure of Prince Charles with Buckingham into Spain, to woo the
Infanta, be its real origin? "Heigho! for Antony Rowley" is the chorus.
Now "Old Rowley" was a pet name for Charles the Second, as any reader of
the Waverley Novels must recollect. No event was more likely to be talked
about and sung about at the time, the adventurous nature of the trip being
peculiarly adapted to the ballad-monger.

FRANCIS MAHONY.

"A Frog he would a-wooing go" (Vol. ii., p. 45.)--Your correspondent T. S. D. is certainly
right in his notion that the ballad of "A frog he would a-wooing go" is very old, however fanciful
may be his conjecture about its personal or political application to Henry VIII. and Anne Boleyn.
That it could not refer to "the Cavaliers and the Roundheads," another of T. S. D.'s notions,
is clear from the fact, that it was entered at Stationers' Hall in November, 1581; as appears
by the quotation made by Mr. Payne Collier, in his second volume of Extracts, printed for the
Shakspeare Society last year. It runs thus:--

    "Edward White. Lycensed unto him, &c., theis iiij. ballads followinge,
    that is to saie, A moste strange weddinge of the frogge and the mowse,"
    &c.

Upon this entry Mr. Collier makes this note:

    "The ballad can hardly be any other than the still well-known comic
    song 'A Frog he would a-wooing go.'"

It may have been even older than 1581, when Edward White entered it; for it is possible that
it was then only a reprint of an earlier production. I, like Mr. Collier, have heard it sung
"in our theatres and streets," and, like T. S. D., always fancied that it was ancient.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

Rowley Powley.--As generally inclined to the belief that everything is older than anybody knows
of, I am rather startled by "Rowley Powley" not being as old as myself. I remember seeing mentioned
somewhere, without any reference to this chorus, that rowley powley is a name for a plump fowl,
of which both "gammon and spinach" are posthumous connexions. I cannot help thinking that this
may be a clue to some prior occurrence of the chorus, with or without {75} the song. If "derry
down," which has been said to be druidical, were judged of by the last song it went with, how
old would be the Druids?

M.

"A Frog he would a-wooing go."--It may perhaps be interesting to some of your correspondents
on the subject of "A frog he would a-wooing go," to know that there exists an Irish version
of that woeful tale, which differs in several respects from the ballad which has so long been
familiar to English ears. The burthen of "Heigho! says Rowley," does not occur in the Hibernian
composition, but a still less intelligible chorus supplies its place. The air is exceedingly
quaint, and seems to me to bear the stamp of antiquity. The words are as follow:--

 "Misther Frog lived in a well,
    Heigho! my lanti-iddity!
  And the merry mouse in the mill,
    Terry heigho! for lang for liddity!
  Says Mr. Frog, 'I will go coort,'
    Heigho, &c.
 'Saddle me nag and polish me boots!'
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Frog came to Lady Mouse's hall,
    Heigho, &c.
  Gave a rap and thundering call,
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'Where is the people of this house?'
    Heigho, &c.
 'Here am I,' says my Lady Mouse,
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'I've come to court Miss Kitty here,'
    Heigho, &c.
 'If that she can fancy me.'
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'Uncle Rat is not at home;'
    Heigho, &c.
 'He'll give you an answer--I have none,'
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Uncle Rat, when he came in,
    Heigho, &c.
 'Who's been here since I left home?'
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'Misther Frog, a worthy man;'
    Heigho, &c.
 'Give him a wife, Sir, if you can,'
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'Where shall we make the bride's bed?'
    Heigho, &c.
 'Down below, in the Horse's Head.'
    Terry heigho, &c.
 'What shall we have for the wedding supper?'
    Heigho, &c.
 'A roasted potato and a roll o' butter.'
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Supper was laid down to dine,
    Heigho, &c.
  Changed a farthing and brought up wine,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  First come in was a nimble bee,
    Heigho, &c.
  With his fiddle upon his knee,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Next come in was a creeping snail,
    Heigho, &c.
  With his bagpipes under his tail,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Next came in was a neighbour's pig,
    Heigho, &c.
 'Pray, good people, will ye play us a jig?'
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Next come in was a neighbour's hen,
    Heigho, &c.
  Took the fiddler by the wing,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Next come in was a neighbour's duck,
    Heigho, &c.
  Swallow'd the piper, head and pluck,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Next come in was a neighbour's cat,
    Heigho, &c.
  Took the young bride by the back,
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Misther Frog jumped down the well,
    Heigho, &c.
 'Zounds, I'll never go coort again!'
    Terry heigho, &c.
  Uncle Rat run up a wall,
    Heigho, &c.
 'Zounds, the divil's among you all!'
    Terry heigho, &c."

W. A. G.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Carucate of Land (Vol. ii., p. 9.).--The measure of the carucate was as indefinite in Edward
III.'s time as at an earlier period. It then, as before, represented as much land as could
be worked with one plough in a year. I am fortunately enabled to give your correspondent E.V.
a precise answer to his Query. In a MS. survey of the Hospitallers' lands in England, taken
under the direction of Prior Philip Thame, A.D. 1338, which I transcribed from the original,
among the records of the order, I find in the "extent" of the "Camera de Hetherington in comitatu
Northampton,"--

    "Item. v Carucate terre continentes v^c acre terre: pretium cujuslibet,
    viij^d."

    "Bæjulia de Eycle (i. e. Eagle in Lincolnshire) cum membris."

    "Et ibidem iiij. carucate terre, que continent v^c acras terre et apud
    le Wodehous iij carucate terre, que continent iij^c: pretium acre,
    vj^d."

Here we have a decided instance of the variation in the number of acres represented by the
carucate. I have generally found that the nearest approximation to correctness, where no other
evidence is at hand, is to consider the carucate as designating about 100 acres.

L. B. L.

Carucate of Land.--A case in point is given in the 33rd vol. of the Archæologia, p. 271. The
{76} carucate frequently consisted of eight bovatæ of arable land; but the number of acres
appears to have varied not only according to the quality of the soil, but according to the
custom of husbandry of the shire: for where a two-years' course, or crop and fallow, was adopted,
more land was adjudged to the carucate than where a three-years' course obtained, the land
lying fallow not being reckoned or rateable. The object would appear to have been to obtain
a carucate of equal value throughout the kingdom.

B. W.

Golden Frog and Sir John Poley (Vol. i., p. 214. and 372.).--Your correspondent GASTROS suggests
that "to the Low Countries, the land of frogs, we must turn for the solution of this enigma,"
(Vol. i., p. 372.); accordingly, it appears from the treatise of Bircherodius on the Knights
of the Elephant, an order of knighthood in Denmark, conferred upon none but persons of the
first quality and merit, that a frog is among the devices adopted by them; and we need not
further seek for a reason why this Symbolum Heroicum was worn by Sir John Poley, who served
much under Christian, king of Denmark (Vol. i., p. 214.), and distinguished himself much by
his military achievements in the Low Countries (p. 372.).

T. J.

The Poley Frog.--More than half a century ago, I was present when this singular appendage was
the subject of conversation in a large literary party, but being then a schoolboy I made "no
note of it." My recollection now is, that after some jokes on the name of Poley as that of
a frog, allusion was made to an old court story of King James II. throwing a frog into the
neck of William, third Earl of Pembroke. The story, with its consequences, may be found in
the Tixall Letters, vol. i. p. 5.; Wood's Athenæ Ox., vol. i. p. 546.; Park's Royal and Noble
Authors, vol. ii. p. 249.

[Old English G].

I have never seen a head of any engraving of the portrait of Sir John Poley, of Boxsted Hall,
not Bexstead. I believe there is none.

D.

Bands (Vol. ii., p. 23.) are the descendants of the ruff a portion of the ordinary civil costume
of the sixteenth century. In the reign of James I., the ruff was occasionally exchanged for
a wide stiff collar, standing out horizontally and squarely, made of similar stuff, starched
and wired, and sometimes edged like the ruff with lace. These collars were called bands. A
good example occurs in the portrait of Shakspeare by Cornelius Jansen, engravings of which
are well known. At the end of the seventeenth century these broad-falling bands were succeeded
by the small Geneva bands, which have ever since been retained by our clergymen and councillors,
but in a contracted form, having been originally bonâ fide collars, the ends of which hung
negligently over the shoulders. (See Planché's Brit. Costume, pp. 350. 390.) Bands are worn
by the ecclesiastics in France and Italy, as well as in England.

In the second number of Popular Tracts Illustrating the Prayer-Book, p. 3., it is suggested
that bands are perhaps the remains of the amice, one of the eucharistic vestments in use previous
to the Reformation, which consisted of a square cloth, so put on that one side, which was embroidered,
formed a collar round the neck, whilst the rest hung behind like a hood. By analogy with the
scarf of our Protestant clergy, which is clearly the stole of the Roman Church retained under
a different name, this suggestion is not without some degree of plausibility.

The fact that the present academical costume is derived from the ordinary civil dress of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, sufficiently accounts for the retention of the bands as
a part.

ARUN.

Surely bands are no part of the peculiar dress of the clergy, &c., but the ordinary dress of
the people, retained by certain classes or professions, because they wished for something regular
and distinctive. So the wigs of the judges were the fashionable dress 150 years ago. It is
curious that the clergy have cut down their bands, while the lawyers still glory in comparatively
large and flowing ones. Bands altered greatly in their form. Taylor, the Water Poet, I think,
says--

 "The eighth Henry, as I understand,
  Was the first prince that ever wore a band,"

or, indeed, person of any sort. The date of the same thing in France is mentioned in Vellay,
but I forget it now.

C. B.

Bishops and their Precedence (Vol. ii., p. 9.).--It may interest your correspondent E. to refer
to a passage in Baker's Chronicle, sub anno 1461, p. 204., which would tend to show that the
precedency of the spiritual barons was at that period disputed. That writer says:--

    "John Earl of Oxford, with his son Aubrey de Vere, &c., was convicted
    of treason and beheaded. John Earl of Oxford, in a former parliament,
    had disputed the question concerning the precedency of Temporal and
    Spiritual Barons, a bold attempt in those days, and by force of whose
    argument Judgment was given for the Lords Temporal."

Where will this judgment or any account of the dispute be found?

G.

"Imprest" and "Debenture" (Vol. ii., p. 40.).--Imprest is derived from the Italian imprestare,
to lend, which is im-præstare, (Fr. prêter). Debentur, or Debenture (Lat. debeo), was originally
a Customhouse term, meaning a certificate or ticket presented by an exporter, when a drawback
or bounty was allowed on certain exported goods. Hence it seems {77} to mean a certificate
acknowledging a debt, and promising payment at a specified time on the presentation of the
certificate. Debentures are thus issued by railway companies when they borrow money, and the
certificates for annual interest which accompany them are, so to speak, sub-debentures. Perhaps
this may throw some light upon the matter.

E. S. JACKSON.

Charade (Vol. i., p. 10.).--The charade cited by QUÆSTOR is on my "Notes" as the "Bishop of
Salisbury's," and the following answer is said to be by a clergyman:--

 "Firm on the Rock of Christ, though lowly sprung,
  The Church invokes the Spirit's fiery Tongue;
  Those gracious breathings rouse but to controul
  The Storm and Struggle in the Sinner's Soul.
  Happy! ere long his carnal conflicts cease,
  And the Storm sinks in faith and gentle peace--
  Kings own its potent sway, and humbly bows
  The gilded diadem upon their brows--
  Its saving voice with Mercy speeds to all,
  But ah! how few who quicken at the call--
  Gentiles the favour'd 'little Flock' detest,
  And Abraham's children spit upon their rest.
  Once only since Creation's work, has night
  Curtain'd with dark'ning Clouds its saving light,
  What time the Ark majestically rode,
  Unscath'd upon the desolating flood--
  The Silver weigh'd for it, in all its strength
  For scarce three pounds were counted, while its length
  Traced in the Prophet's view with measur'd reed,
  Squared just a mile, as Rabbins are agreed--
  And now I feel entitled well to smile,
  Since Christ's Church bears the Palm in all our Isle."

I waited some time to see if any solution would be given of the charade; and I now send you
the one in my possession, in default of a better.

REBECCA.

Dutch Language (Vol. i., p. 383.).--E. V. asks what are the best modern books for acquiring
a knowledge of the Dutch language. If E. V. insist upon modern books, he cannot have better
than Hendrik Conscience's novels, or Gerrits's Zoon des Volks. I would, however, advise him
to get a volume of Jacob Cats' Poems, the language of which is not antiquated, and is idiomatic
without being difficult to a beginner.

H. B. C.

"Construe" and "Translate" (Vol ii., p. 22.).--It is very common, I apprehend, in language,
for two words, originally of the same meaning, or two spellings of the same word, to be gradually
appropriated by usage to two subordinate uses, applications, and meanings of the word respectively,
and that merely by accident, as to which of the two is taken for one of the subdivisions, and
which for the other. We have made such an appropriation in our own time,--despatch and dispatch.

It may be curious, however, to inquire how far back the distinction mentioned by your correspondent
is found.

"Construe," originally, must probably have meant, not to turn from one language into another,
but to explain the construction, or what is called by the Greek name syntax, much like what
in regard to a single word is called parsing.

C. B.

Dutton Family (Vol. ii., p. 21.).--B. will find the Dutton proviso in the statute 17 Geo. II.
explained by reference to Ormerod's Cheshire, vol. i. pp. 36. 477. 484.; Lyson's Cheshire;
Blount's Antient Tenures, 298., &c. An early grant by one of the Lacy family transferred to
Hugh de Dutton and his heirs "magistratum omnium leccatorum et meritricum totius Cestriæ."
In the fifteenth century the jurisdiction was claimed by the Dutton family, in respect of the
lordship or manor of Dutton, and was then confined to a jurisdiction over the minstrels and
musicians of the palatinate and city of Chester, who constituted, I presume, a department among
the leccatores, or licorish fellows, mentioned above. In virtue of this jurisdiction the lord
of Dutton had the advowry or "advocaria" of the minstrels of the district, and annually licensed
them at a Court of Minstrelsy, where the homage consisted of a jury of sworn fiddlers; and
certain dues, namely, flagons of wine and a lance or flagstaff, were yearly rendered to the
lord. The last court was held in 1756.

As the early Vagrant Acts included "minstrels" in their definition of rogues and vagabonds,
it is evident that the suitors of the Minstrelsy Court would have run the risk of commitment
to the House of Correction and a whipping, if the acts had not specially excepted the franchise
of the Dutton family from their operation. The earliest statutes are 14 Eliz. c. 5.; 39 Eliz.
c. 4.; and 43 Eliz. c. 9. Section 27. of the last Act clearly shows that it was the power of
licensing minstrels which the proviso of the acts was intended to save. The pedigree of the
Dutton family will be found in the volume of Ormerod already cited.

E. S.

June 5. 1850.

"Laus tua, non tua fraus," &c. (Vol. i., p. 416.).--The lines were written by Philelphus on
Pope Pius II., as is stated in the book called Les Bigarrures du Seigneur des Accords, p. 173.
of the edit. 1662.

C. B.

In a small work, entitled Specimens of Macaronic Poetry, 8vo., 1831, the verses quoted by "O."
are stated to have been written by some poet (not named) in praise of Pope Clement VI. or Pius
II., but of which learned authorities do not agree. It seems the poet was afraid he might not
receive such a reward as, according to his own estimate, he deserved, and therefore retained
the power of converting his flattery into abuse, by simply giving {78} his friends the cue
to commence from the last word, and begin backwards. The following are other verses of the
same sort:--

  AD JULIUM III. PONTIFICEM MAXIMUM.
 "Pontifici sua sint Divino Numine tuto
  Culmina, nec montes hos petat omnipotens."

  AD CAROLUM V. CAESAREM.
 "Cæsareum tibi sit felici sidere nomen,
  Carole, nec fatum sit tibi Cæsareum."

W. G. S.

"O." is referred to a low and scurrilous translation, or rather imitation of the epigrams of
Martial and others, purporting to be "by the Rev. Mr. Scott, M.A.," and published in London
in 1773.

Therein the lines quoted by "O." are given, accompanied by a sorry attempt at translation;
and the epigram is attributed to

    "One Cianconius, a Dominican Friar, in honour of Pope Clement the
    Fourth."

A. E. B.

Leeds.

Mother of Thomas à Becket (Vol. i., pp. 415. 3.

W. G. S.

Medal of Stukeley.--In answer to Mr. BRITTON'S Queries (Vol. i., p. 122., and Vol. ii., p.
40.), I beg to inform him that the medal of Stukeley was executed soon after that eminent antiquary's
death by an artist of the name of Gaal, who was not a die-sinker, but a modeller and chaser.
The medal is rare, but not unique: I have one in my own collection, and I have, I think, seen
one or two others. They are all cast in a mould and chased.

EDW. HAWKINS

June 13. 1850.

Dulcarnon (Vol. i., p. 254.).--Has Dulcarnon any reference to the Hindostanee Dhoulcarnein,
two-horned,--the epithet constantly applied in India to Alexander the Great, or Iskander, as
they call him? It seems not a bad word for a dilemma or puzzle.

H. W.

Nottingham.

Practice of Scalping.--Your correspondent T. J. will find in Mr. Layard's Nineveh and its Remains
(vol. ii. p. 374.) the following note:--

    "The Scythians scalped and flayed their enemies, and used their skins
    as horse trappings."--Herod. iv. 64.

G. R.

Greenock.

Scalping.--Perhaps your correspondent T. J. (Vol. ii., p. 12.) may recollect the allusion to
"scalping," in Psalm lxviii. 21.; upon which verse an argument has been based in favour of
the supposition, that the aborigines of America are derived from the ten tribes of Israel.

J. SANSOM.

Derivation of Penny (Vol. i., pp. 384. 411.).--Akerman's Numismatic Manual (p. 228.) has, under
the head of "Penny," the following remarks:--

    "The penny is next in antiquity. It is first mentioned in the laws of
    Ina. The term has been derived by various writers from almost every
    European language; but the conjecture of Wachter, as noticed by Lye,
    seems the most reasonable. This writer derives it from the Celtic word
    pen, head; the heads of the Saxon princes being stamped on the
    earliest pennies. The fact of the testoon of later times having been
    so named, certainly adds weight to the opinion of Wachter."

W. G. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellanies.

"By Hook or by Crook" (Vol. i., p. 405.).--The following extract may, perhaps, by multiplying
instances, tend to corroborate the supposed origin of the above saying:--

    "Not far from them [Peverell's Crosses], in the parish of Egloshayle,
    is another moonstone [granite] cross near Mount Charles, called the
    Prior's Cross, on which is cut the figure of a hook and a crook, in
    memory of the privilege granted by him to the poor of Bodmin, for
    gathering for fire-boot and house-boot such boughs and branches of such
    trees in his contiguous wood of Dunmere, as they could reach with a
    hook and a crook without further damage to the trees. From whence
    arose the Cornish proverb, they will have it by hook or by
    crook."--Hitchins and Drewe, Hist. Cornwall, p. 214. vol. ii. edit.
    1824.

SELEUCUS.

Burning dead Bodies.--In his remarks on "ashes to ashes," CINIS says (Vol. i., p.22.) that
"the burning of the dead does not appear to be in itself an anti-christian ceremony," &c.:
he is mistaken, for the early Christians, like the Jews, never burned their dead, but buried
them. The catacombs of Rome and Naples, besides those in other places, were especially used
for sepulture; and if CINIS wish for proofs, he will find an abundance in Rock's Hierurgia,
t. ii. p. 802., &c.

CEPHAS.

