"The folks are all away. It's but a short walk, and your limbs are young," replied the female,
who was not altogether pleased with the easy way of making himself at home which mark'd her
shabby-looking customer. That individual, however, seem'd to give small attention to the hint,
but lean'd and puff'd his cigar-smoke as leisurely as before.

"Unless," continued the woman, catching a second glance at the sixpence; "unless old Joe is
at the stable, as he's very likely to be. I'll go and find out for you." And she push'd open
a door at her back, stepp'd through an adjoining room into a yard, whence her voice was the
next moment heard calling the person she had mention'd, in accents by no means remarkable for
their melody or softness.

Her search was successful. She soon return'd with him who was to act as messenger--a little,
wither'd, ragged old man--a hanger-on there, whose unshaven face told plainly enough the story
of his intemperate habits--those deeply seated habits, now too late to be uprooted, that would
ere long lay him in a drunkard's grave. The youth inform'd him what the required service was,
and promised him the reward as soon as he should return,

"Tell Richard Hall that I am going to his father's house this afternoon. If he asks who it
is that wishes him here, say the person sent no name," continued the stranger, sitting up from
his indolent posture, as the feet of old Joe were about leaving the door-stone, and his blear'd
eyes turned to eaten the last sentence of the mandate.

"And yet, perhaps you may as well," added he, communing a moment with himself: "you may tell
him his brother Frank, Wild Frank, it is, who wishes him to come."

The old man departed on his errand, and he who call'd himself Wild Frank, toss'd his nearly
smoked cigar out of the window, and folded his arms in thought.

No better place than this, probably, will occur to give a brief account of some former events
in the life of the young stranger, resting and waiting at the village inn. Fifteen miles east
of that inn lived a farmer named Hall, a man of good repute, well-off in the world, and head
of a large family. He was fond of gain--required all his boys to labor in proportion to their
age; and his right hand man, if he might not be called favorite, was his eldest son Richard.
This eldest son, an industrious, sober-faced young fellow, was invested by his father with
the powers of second in command; and as strict and swift obedience was a prime tenet in the
farmer's domestic government, the children all tacitly submitted to their brother's sway--all
but one, and that was Frank. The farmer's wife was a quiet woman, in rather tender health;
and though for all her offspring she had a mother's love, Frank's kiss ever seem'd sweetest
to her lips. She favor'd him more than the rest--perhaps, as in a hundred similar instances,
for his being so often at fault, and so often blamed. In truth, however, he seldom receiv'd
more blame than he deserv'd, for he was a capricious, high-temper'd lad, and up to all kinds
of mischief. From these traits he was known in the neighborhood by the name of Wild Frank.

Among the farmer's stock there was a fine young blood mare--a beautiful creature, large and
graceful, with eyes like dark-hued jewels, and her color that of the deep night. It being the
custom of the farmer to let his boys have something about the farm that they could call their
own, and take care of as such, Black Nell, as the mare was called, had somehow or other fallen
to Frank's share. He was very proud of her, and thought as much of her comfort as his own.
The elder brother, however, saw fit to claim for himself, and several times to exercise, a
privilege of managing and using Black Nell, notwithstanding what Frank consider'd his prerogative.
On one of these occasions a hot dispute arose, and, after much angry blood, it was referr'd
to the farmer for settlement. He decided in favor of Richard, and added a harsh lecture to
his other son. The farmer was really unjust; and Wild Frank's face paled with rage and mortification.
That furious temper which he had never been taught to curb, now swell'd like an overflowing
torrent. With difficulty restraining the exhibition of his passions, as soon as he got by himself
he swore that not another sun should roll by and find him under that roof. Late at night he
silently arose, and turning his back on what he thought an inhospitable home, in mood in which
the child should never leave the parental roof, bent his steps toward the city.

It may well be imagined that alarm and grief pervaded the whole of the family, on discovering
Frank's departure. And as week after week melted away and brought no tidings of him, his poor
mother's heart grew wearier and wearier. She spoke not much, but was evidently sick in spirit.
Nearly two years had claps'd when about a week before the incidents at the commencement of
this story, the farmer's family were joyfully surprised by receiving a letter from the long
absent son. He had been to sea, and was then in New York, at which port his vessel had just
arrived. He wrote in a gay strain; appear'd to have lost the angry feeling which caused his
flight from home; and said he heard in the city that Richard had married, and settled several
miles distant, where he wished him all good luck and happiness. Wild Frank wound up his letter
by promising, as soon as he could get through the imperative business of his ship, to pay a
visit to his parents and native place. On Tuesday of the succeeding week, he said he would
be with them.

Within half an hour after the departure of old Joe, the form of that ancient personage was
seen slowly wheeling round the locust-tree at the end of the lane, accompanied by a stout young
man in primitive homespun apparel. The meeting between Wild Frank and his brother Richard,
though hardly of that kind which generally takes place between persons so closely related,
could not exactly be call'd distant or cool either. Richard press'd his brother to go with
him to the farmhouse, and refresh and repose himself for some hours at least, but Frank declined.

"They will all expect me home this afternoon," he said, "I wrote to them I would be there to-day."

"But you must be very tired, Frank," rejoin'd the other; "won't you let some of us harness
up and carry you? Or if you like--" he stopp'd a moment, and a trifling suffusion spread over
his face; "if you like, I'll put the saddle on Black Nell--she's here at my place now, and
you can ride home like a lord."

Frank's face color'd a little, too. He paused for a moment in thought --he was really foot-sore,
and exhausted with his journey that hot day--so he accepted his brother's offer.

"You know the speed of Nell, as well as I," said Richard; "I'll warrant when I bring her here
you'll say she's in good order as ever." So telling him to amuse himself for a few minutes
as well as he could, Richard left the tavern.

Could it be that Black Nell knew her early master? She neigh'd and rubb'd her nose on his shoulder;
and as he put his foot in the stirrup and rose on her back, it was evident that they were both
highly pleased with their meeting. Bidding his brother farewell, and not forgetting old Joe,
the young man set forth on his journey to his father's house. As he left the village behind,
and came upon the long monotonous road before him, he thought on the circumstances of his leaving
home--and he thought, too, on his course of life, how it was being frittered away and lost.
Very gentle influences, doubtless, came over Wild Frank's mind then, and he yearn'd to show
his parents that he was sorry for the trouble he had cost them. He blamed himself for his former
follies, and even felt remorse that he had not acted more kindly to Richard, and gone to his
house. Oh, it had been a sad mistake of the farmer that he did not teach his children to love
one another. It was a foolish thing that he prided himself on governing his little flock well,
when sweet affection, gentle forbearance, and brotherly faith, were almost unknown among them.

The day was now advanced, though the heat pour'd down with a strength little less oppressive
than at noon. Frank had accomplish'd the greater part of his journey; he was within two miles
of his home. The road here led over a high, tiresome hill, and he determined to stop on the
top of it and rest himself, as well as give the animal he rode a few minutes' breath. How well
he knew the place! And that mighty oak, standing just outside the fence on the very summit
of the hill, often had he reposed under its shade. It would be pleasant for a few minutes to
stretch his limbs there again as of old, he thought to himself; and he dismounted from the
saddle and led Black Nell under the tree. Mindful of the comfort of his favorite, he took from
his little bundle, which he had strapped behind him on the mare's back, a piece of strong cord,
four or five yards in length, which he tied to the bridle, and wound and tied the other end,
for security, over his own wrist; then throwing himself at full length upon the ground, Black
Nell was at liberty to graze around him, without danger of straying away.

It was a calm scene, and a pleasant. There was no rude sound--hardly even a chirping insect--to
break the sleepy silence of the place. The atmosphere had a dim, hazy cast, and was impregnated
with overpowering heat. The young man lay there minute after minute, as time glided away unnoticed;
for he was very tired, and his repose was sweet to him. Occasionally he raised himself and
cast a listless look at the distant landscape, veil'd as it was by the slight mist. At length
his repose was without such interruptions. His eyes closed, and though at first they open'd
languidly again at intervals, after a while they shut altogether. Could it be that he slept?
It was so indeed. Yielding to the drowsy influences about him, and to his prolong'd weariness
of travel, he had fallen into a deep, sound slumber. Thus he lay; and Black Nell, the original
cause of his departure from his home--by a singular chance, the companion of his return--quietly
cropp'd the grass at his side.

An hour nearly pass'd away, and yet the young man slept on. The light and heat were not glaring
now; a change had come over earth and heaven. There were signs of one of those thunderstorms
that in our climate spring up and pass over so quickly and so terribly. Masses of vapor loom'
d up in the horizon, and a dark shadow settled on the woods and fields. The leaves of the great
oak rustled together over the youth's head. Clouds flitted swiftly in the sky, like bodies
of armed men coming up to battle at the call of their leader's trumpet. A thick rain-drop fell
now and then, while occasionally hoarse mutterings of thunder sounded in the distance; yet
the slumberer was not arous'd. It was strange that Wild Frank did not awake. Perhaps his ocean
life had taught him to rest undisturbed amid the jarring of elements. Though the storm was
now coming on in its fury, he slept like a babe in its cradle.

Black Nell had ceased grazing, and stood by her sleeping master with ears erect, and her long
mane and tail waving in the wind. It seem'd quite dark, so heavy were the clouds. The blast
blew sweepingly, the lightning flash'd, and the rain fell in torrents. Crash after crash of
thunder seem'd to shake the solid earth. And Black Nell, she stood now, an image of beautiful
terror, with her fore feet thrust out, her neck arch'd, and her eyes glaring balls of fear.
At length, after a dazzling and lurid glare, there came a peal--a deafening crash--as if the
great axle was rent. God of Spirits! the startled mare sprang off like a ship in an ocean-storm!
Her eyes were blinded with light; she dashed madly down the hill, and plunge after plunge--far,
far away--swift as an arrow--dragging the hapless body of the youth behind her!

In the low, old-fashion'd dwelling of the farmer there was a large family group. The men and
boys had gather'd under shelter at the approach of the storm; and the subject of their talk
was the return of the long absent son. The mother spoke of him, too, and her eyes brighten'd
with pleasure as she spoke. She made all the little domestic preparations--cook'd his favorite
dishes--and arranged for him his own bed, in its own old place. As the tempest mounted to its
fury they discuss'd the probability of his getting soak'd by it; and the provident dame had
already selected some dry garments for a change. But the rain was soon over, and nature smiled
again in her invigorated beauty. The sun shone out as it was dipping in the west. Drops sparkled
on the leaf-tips--coolness and clearness were in the air.

The clattering of a horse's hoofs came to the ears of those who were gather'd there. It was
on the other side of the house that the wagon road lead; and they open'd the door and rush'd
in a tumult of glad anticipations, through the adjoining room to the porch. What a sight it
was that met them there! Black Nell stood a few feet from the door, with her neck crouch'd
down; she drew her breath long and deep, and vapor rose from every part of her reeking body.
And with eyes starting from their sockets, and mouths agape with stupefying terror, they beheld
on the ground near her a mangled, hideous mass--the rough semblance of a human form--all batter'd,
and cut, and bloody. Attach'd to it was the fatal cord, dabbled over with gore. And as the
mother gazed--for she could not withdraw her eyes--and the appalling truth came upon her mind,
she sank down without shriek or utterance, into a deep, deathly swoon.

THE BOY LOVER

Listen, and the old will speak a chronicle for the young. Ah, youth! thou art one day coming
to be old, too. And let me tell thee how thou mayest get a useful lesson. For an hour, dream
thyself old. Realize, in thy thoughts and consciousness, that vigor and strength are subdued
in thy sinews--that the color of the shroud is liken'd in thy very hairs--that all those leaping
desires, luxurious hopes, beautiful aspirations, and proud confidences, of thy younger life,
have long been buried (a funeral for the better part of thee) in that grave which must soon
close over thy tottering limbs. Look back, then, through the long track of the past years.
How has it been with thee? Are there bright beacons of happiness enjoy'd, and of good done
by the way? Glimmer gentle rays of what was scatter'd from a holy heart? Have benevolence,
and love, and undeviating honesty left tokens on which thy eyes can rest sweetly? Is it well
with thee, thus? Answerest thou, it is? Or answerest thou, I see nothing but gloom and shatter'd
hours, and the wreck of good resolves, and a broken heart, filled with sickness, and troubled
among its ruined chambers with the phantoms of many follies?

O, youth! youth! this dream will one day be a reality--a reality, either of heavenly peace
or agonizing sorrow.

And yet not for all is it decreed to attain the neighborhood of the three-score and ten years--the
span of life. I am to speak of one who died young. Very awkward was his childhood--but most
fragile and sensitive! So delicate a nature may exist in a rough, unnoticed plant! Let the
boy rest;--he was not beautiful, and dropp'd away betimes. But for the cause--it is a singular
story, to which let crusted worldlings pay the tribute of a light laugh--light and empty as
their own hollow hearts.

Love! which with its cankerseed of decay within, has sent young men and maidens to a long'd-for,
but too premature burial. Love! the child-monarch that Death itself cannot conquer; that has
its tokens on slabs at the head of grass-cover'd tombs--tokens more visible to the eye of the
stranger, yet not so deeply graven as the face and the remembrances cut upon the heart of the
living. Love! the sweet, the pure, the innocent; yet the causer of fierce hate, of wishes for
deadly revenge, of bloody deeds, and madness, and the horrors of hell. Love! that wanders over
battlefields, turning up mangled human trunks, and parting back the hair from gory faces, and
daring the points of swords and the thunder of artillery, without a fear or a thought of danger.

Words! words! I begin to see I am, indeed, an old man, and garrulous! Let me go back--yes,
I see it must be many years!

It was at the close of the last century. I was at that time studying law, the profession my
father follow'd. One of his clients was an elderly widow, a foreigner, who kept a little ale-house,
on the banks of the North River, at about two miles from what is now the centre of the city.
Then the spot was quite out of town and surrounded by fields and green trees. The widow often
invited me to come and pay her a visit, when I had a leisure afternoon--including also in the
invitation my brother and two other students who were in my father's office. Matthew, the brother
I mention, was a boy of sixteen; he was troubled with an inward illness--though it had no power
over his temper, which ever retain' d the most admirable placidity and gentleness.

He was cheerful, but never boisterous, and everybody loved him; his mind seem'd more develop'd
than is usual for his age, though his personal appearance was exceedingly plain. Wheaton and
Brown, the names of the other students, were spirited, clever young fellows, with most of the
traits that those in their position of life generally possess. The first was as generous and
brave as any man I ever knew. He was very passionate, too, but the whirlwind soon blew over,
and left everything quiet again. Frank Brown was slim, graceful, and handsome. He profess'd
to be fond of sentiment, and used to fall regularly in love once a month.

The half of every Wednesday we four youths had to ourselves, and were in the habit of taking
a sail, a ride, or a walk together. One of these afternoons, of a pleasant day in April, the
sun shining, and the air clear, I bethought myself of the widow and her beer--about which latter
article I had made inquiries, and heard it spoken of in terms of high commendation. I mention'd
the matter to Matthew and to my fellow-students, and we agreed to fill up our holiday by a
jaunt to the ale-house. Accordingly, we set forth, and, after a fine walk, arrived in glorious
spirits at our destination.

Ah! how shall I describe the quiet beauties of the spot, with its long, low piazza looking
out upon the river, and its clean homely tables, and the tankards of real silver in which the
ale was given us, and the flavor of that excellent liquor itself. There was the widow; and
there was a sober, stately old woman, half companion, half servant, Margery by name; and there
was (good God! my fingers quiver yet as I write the word!) young Ninon, the daughter of the widow.

O, through the years that live no more, my memory strays back, and that whole scene comes up
before me once again-and the brightest part of the picture is the strange ethereal beauty of
that young girl! She was apparently about the age of my brother Matthew, and the most fascinating,
artless creature I had ever beheld. She had blue eyes and light hair, and an expression of
childish simplicity which was charming indeed. I have no doubt that ere half an hour had elapsed
from the time we enter'd the tavern and saw Ninon, every one of the four of us loved the girl
to the very depth of passion.

We neither spent so much money, nor drank as much beer, as we had intended before starting
from home. The widow was very civil, being pleased to see us, and Margery served our wants
with a deal of politeness--but it was to Ninon that the afternoon's pleasure was attributable;
for though we were strangers, we became acquainted at once--the manners of the girl, merry
as she was, putting entirely out of view the most distant imputation of indecorum--and the
presence of the widow and Margery, (for we were all in the common room together, there being
no other company,) serving to make us all disembarrass'd, and at ease.

It was not until quite a while after sunset that we started on our return to the city. We made
several attempts to revive the mirth and lively talk that usually signalized our rambles, but
they seem'd forced and discordant, like laughter in a sick-room. My brother was the only one
who preserved his usual tenor of temper and conduct.

I need hardly say that thenceforward every Wednesday afternoon was spent at the widow's tavern.
Strangely, neither Matthew or my two friends, or myself, spoke to each other of the sentiment
that filled us in reference to Ninon. Yet we all knew the thoughts and feelings of the others;
and each, perhaps, felt confident that his love alone was unsuspected by his companions.

The story of the widow was a touching yet simple one. She was by birth a Swiss. In one of the
cantons of her native land, she had grown up, and married, and lived for a time in happy comfort.
A son was born to her, and a daughter, the beautiful Ninon. By some reverse of fortune, the
father and head of the family had the greater portion of his possessions swept from him. He
struggled for a time against the evil influence, but it press'd upon him harder and harder.
He had heard of a people in the western world--a new and swarming land--where the stranger
was welcom'd, and peace and the protection of the strong arm thrown around him. He had not
heart to stay and struggle amid the scenes of his former prosperity, and he determin'd to go
and make his home in that distant republic of the west. So with his wife and children, and
the proceeds of what little property was left, he took passage for New York. He was never to
reach his journey's end. Either the cares that weigh' d upon his mind, or some other cause,
consign'd him to a sick hammock, from which he only found relief through the Great Dismisser.
He was buried in the sea, and in due time his family arrived at the American emporium. But
there, the son too sicken'd--died, ere long, and was buried likewise. They would not bury him
in the city, but away--by the solitary banks of the Hudson; on which the widow soon afterwards
took up her abode.

Ninon was too young to feel much grief at these sad occurrences; and the mother, whatever she
might have suffer'd inwardly, had a good deal of phlegm and patience, and set about making
herself and her remaining child as comfortable as might be. They had still a respectable sum
in cash, and after due deliberation, the widow purchas'd the little quiet tavern, not far from
the grave of her boy; and of Sundays and holidays she took in considerable money--enough to
make a decent support for them in their humble way of living. French and Germans visited the
house frequently, and quite a number of young Americans too. Probably the greatest attraction
to the latter was the sweet face of Ninon.

Spring passed, and summer crept in and wasted away, and autumn had arrived. Every New Yorker
knows what delicious weather we have, in these regions, of the early October days; how calm,
clear, and divested of sultriness, is the air, and how decently nature seems preparing for
her winter sleep.

Thus it was the last Wednesday we started on our accustomed excursion. Six months had elapsed
since our first visit, and, as then, we were full of the exuberance of young and joyful hearts.
Frequent and hearty were our jokes, by no means particular about the theme or the method, and
long and loud the peals of laughter that rang over the fields or along the shore.

We took our seats round the same clean, white table, and received our favorite beverage in
the same bright tankards. They were set before us by the sober Margery, no one else being visible.
As frequently happen'd, we were the only company. Walking and breathing the keen, fine air
had made us dry, and we soon drain'd the foaming vessels, and call'd for more. I remember well
an animated chat we had about some poems that had just made their appearance from a great British
author, and were creating quite a public stir. There was one, a tale of passion and despair,
which Wheaton had read, and of which he gave us a transcript. Wild, startling, and dreamy,
perhaps it threw over our minds its peculiar cast. An hour moved off, and we began to think
it strange that neither Ninon or the widow came into the room. One of us gave a hint to that
effect to Margery; but she made no answer, and went on in her usual way as before.

"The grim old thing," said Wheaton, "if she were in Spain, they'd make her a premier duenna!"

I ask'd the woman about Ninon and the widow. She seemed disturb'd, I thought; but, making no
reply to the first part of my question, said that her mistress was in another part of the house,
and did not wish to be with company.

"Then be kind enough, Mrs. Vinegar," resumed Wheaton, good-naturedly, "be kind enough to go
and ask the widow if we can see Ninon."

Our attendant's face turn'd as pale as ashes, and she precipitately left the apartment. We
laugh'd at her agitation, which Frank Brown assigned to our merry ridicule.

Quite a quarter of an hour elaps'd before Margery's return. When she appear'd she told us briefly
that the widow had bidden her obey our behest, and now, if we desired, she would conduct us
to the daughter's presence. There was a singular expression in the woman's eyes, and the whole
affair began to strike us as somewhat odd; but we arose, and taking our caps, follow'd her
as she stepp'd through the door. Back of the house were some fields, and a path leading into
clumps of trees. At some thirty rods distant from the tavern, nigh one of those clumps, the
larger tree whereof was a willow, Margery stopp'd, and pausing a minute, while we came up,
spoke in tones calm and low:

"Ninon is there!"

She pointed downward with her finger. Great God! There was a grave, new made, and with the
sods loosely join'd, and a rough brown stone at each extremity! Some earth yet lay upon the
grass near by. If we had look'd, we might have seen the resting-place of the widow's son, Ninon's
brother--for it was close at hand. But amid the whole scene our eyes took in nothing except
that horrible covering of death--the oven-shaped mound. My sight seemed to waver, my head felt
dizzy, and a feeling of deadly sickness came over me. I heard a stifled exclamation, and looking
round, saw Frank Brown leaning against the nearest tree, great sweat upon his forehead, and
his cheeks bloodless as chalk. Wheaton gave way to his agony more fully than ever I had known
a man before; he had fallen--sobbing like a child, and wringing his hands. It is impossible
to describe the suddenness and fearfulness of the sickening truth that came upon us like a
stroke of thunder.

Of all of us, my brother Matthew neither shed tears, or turned pale, or fainted, or exposed
any other evidence of inward depth of pain. His quiet, pleasant voice was indeed a tone lower,
but it was that which recall'd us, after the lapse of many long minutes, to ourselves.

So the girl had died and been buried. We were told of an illness that had seized her the very
day after our last preceding visit; but we inquired not into the particulars.

And now come I to the conclusion of my story, and to the most singular part of it. The evening
of the third day afterward, Wheaton, who had wept scalding tears, and Brown, whose cheeks had
recovered their color, and myself, that for an hour thought my heart would never rebound again
from the fearful shock--that evening, I say, we three were seated around a table in another
tavern, drinking other beer, and laughing but a little less cheerfully, and as though we had
never known the widow or her daughter--neither of whom, I venture to affirm, came into our
minds once the whole night, or but to be dismiss'd again, carelessly, like the remembrance
of faces seen in a crowd.

Strange are the contradictions of the things of life! The seventh day after that dreadful visit
saw my brother Matthew--the delicate one, who, while bold men writhed in torture, had kept
the same placid face, and the same untrembling fingers--him that seventh day saw a clay-cold
corpse, carried to the repose of the churchyard. The shaft, rankling far down and within, wrought
a poison too great for show, and the youth died.

THE CHILD AND THE PROFLIGATE

Just after sunset, one evening in summer--that pleasant hour when the air is balmy, the light
loses its glare, and all around is imbued with soothing quiet--on the door-step of a house
there sat an elderly woman waiting the arrival of her son. The house was in a straggling village
some fifty miles from New York city. She who sat on the door-step was a widow; her white cap
cover'd locks of gray, and her dress, though clean, was exceedingly homely. Her house--for
the tenement she occupied was her own--was very little and very old. Trees clustered around
it so thickly as almost to hide its color--that blackish gray color which belongs to old wooden
houses that have never been painted; and to get in it you had to enter a little rickety gate
and walk through a short path, border'd by carrot beds and beets and other vegetables. The
son whom she was expecting was her only child. About a year before he had been bound apprentice
to a rich farmer in the place, and after finishing his daily task he was in the habit of spending
half an hour at his mother's. On the present occasion the shadows of night had settled heavily
before the youth made his appearance. When he did, his walk was slow and dragging, and all
his motions were languid, as if from great weariness. He open'd the gate, came through the
path, and sat down by his mother in silence.

"You are sullen to-night, Charley," said the widow, after a moment's pause, when she found
that he return' d no answer to her greeting.

As she spoke she put her hand fondly on his head; it seem'd moist as if it had been dipp'd
in the water. His shirt, too, was soak'd; and as she pass'd her fingers down his shoulder she
left a sharp twinge in her heart, for she knew that moisture to be the hard wrung sweat of
severe toil, exacted from her young child (he was but thirteen years old) by an unyielding
taskmaster.

"You have work'd hard to-day, my son."

"I've been mowing."

The widow's heart felt another pang.

"Not all day, Charley?" she said, in a low voice; and there was a slight quiver in it.

"Yes, mother, all day," replied the boy; "Mr. Ellis said he couldn't afford to hire men, for
wages are so high. I've swung the scythe ever since an hour before sunrise. Feel of my hands."

