Nests of the Mountain Bluebird have been found in New Mexico and Colorado, from the foothills
to near timber line, usually in deserted Woodpecker holes, natural cavities in trees, fissures
in the sides of steep rocky cliffs, and, in the settlements, in suitable locations about and
in the adobe buildings. In settled portions of the west it nests in the cornice of buildings,
under the eaves of porches, in the nooks and corners of barns and outhouses, and in boxes provided
for its occupation. Prof. Ridgway found the Rocky Mountain Bluebird nesting in Virginia City,
Nevada, in June. The nests were composed almost entirely of dry grass. In some sections, however,
the inner bark of the cedar enters largely into their composition. The eggs are usually five,
of a pale greenish-blue.

The females of this species are distinguished by a greener blue color and longer wings, and
this bird is often called the Arctic Bluebird. It is emphatically a bird of the mountains,
its visits to the lower portions of the country being mainly during winter.

THE ENGLISH SPARROW.

"Oh, it's just a common Sparrow," I hear Bobbie say to his mamma, "why, I see lots of them
on the street every day."

Of course you do, but for all that you know very little about me I guess. Some people call
me "Hoodlum," and "Pest," and even "Rat of the Air." I hope you don't. It is only the folks
who don't like me that call me ugly names.

Why don't they like me?

Well, in the first place the city people, who like fine feathers, you know, say I am not pretty;
then the farmers, who are not grateful for the insects I eat, say I devour the young buds and
vines as well as the ripened grain. Then the folks who like birds with fine feathers, and that
can sing like angels, such as the Martin and the Bluebird and a host of others, say I drive
them away, back to the forests where they came from.

Do I do all these things?

I'm afraid I do. I like to have my own way. Maybe you know something about that yourself, Bobbie.
When I choose a particular tree or place for myself and family to live in, I am going to have
it if I have to fight for it. I do chase the other birds away then, to be sure.

Oh, no, I don't always succeed. Once I remember a Robin got the better of me, so did a Catbird,
and another time a Baltimore Oriole. When I can't whip a bird myself I generally give a call
and a whole troop of Sparrows will come to my aid. My, how we do enjoy a fuss like that!

A bully? Well, yes, if by that you mean I rule around my own house, then I am a bully. My mate
has to do just as I say, and the little Sparrows have to mind their papa, too.

"Don't hurt the little darlings, papa," says their mother, when it comes time for them to fly,
and I hop about the nest, scolding them at the top of my voice. Then I scold her for daring
to talk to me, and sometimes make her fly away while I teach the young ones a thing or two.
Once in a while a little fellow among them will "talk back." I don't mind that though, if he
is a Cock Sparrow and looks like his papa.

No, we do not sing. We leave that for the Song Sparrows. We talk a great deal, though. In the
morning when we get up, and at night when we go to bed we chatter a great deal. Indeed there
are people shabby enough to say that we are great nuisances about that time.

THE ENGLISH SPARROW.

The English Sparrow was first introduced into the United States at Brooklyn, New York, in the
years 1851 and '52. The trees in our parks were at that time infested with a canker-worm, which
wrought them great injury, and to rid the trees of these worms was the mission of the English
Sparrow.

In his native country this bird, though of a seed-eating family (Finch), was a great insect
eater. The few which were brought over performed, at first, the duty required of them; they
devoured the worms and stayed near the cities. With the change of climate, however, came a
change in their taste for insects.

Their services in insect-killing are still not to be despised. A single pair of these Sparrows,
under observation an entire day, were seen to convey to their young no less than forty grubs
an hour, an average exceeding three thousand in the course of a week. Moreover, even in the
autumn he does not confine himself to grain, but feeds on various seeds, such as the dandelion,
the sow-thistle, and the groundsel; all of which plants are classed as weeds. It has been known,
also, to chase and devour the common white butterfly, whose caterpillars make havoc among the
garden plants.

The good he may accomplish in this direction, however, is nullified to the lovers of the beautiful,
by the war he constantly wages upon our song birds, destroying their young, and substituting
his unattractive looks and inharmonious chirps for their beautiful plumage and soul-inspiring
songs.

Mrs. Olive Thorne Miller in "Bird Ways" gives a fascinating picture of the wooing of a pair
of Sparrows in a maple tree, within sight of her city window, their setting up house-keeping,
domestic quarrel, separation, and the bringing home, immediately after, of a new bride by the
Cock Sparrow.

She knows him to be a domestic tryant, a bully in fact, self-willed and violent, holding out,
whatever the cause of disagreement, till he gets his own will; that the voices of the females
are less harsh than the males, the chatter among themselves being quite soft, as is their "baby-talk"
to the young brood.

That they delight in a mob we all know; whether a domestic skirmish or danger to a nest, how
they will all congregate, chirping, pecking, scolding, and often fighting in a fierce yet amusing
way! One cannot read these chapters of Mrs. Miller's without agreeing with Whittier:

    "Then, smiling to myself, I said,--
     How like are men and birds!"

Although a hardy bird, braving the snow and frost of winter, it likes a warm bed, to which
it may retire after the toils of the day. To this end its resting place, as well as its nest,
is always stuffed with downy feathers. Tramp, Hoodlum, Gamin, Rat of the Air! Notwithstanding
these more or less deserved names, however, one cannot view a number of homeless Sparrows,
presumably the last brood, seeking shelter in any corner or crevice from a winter's storm,
without a feeling of deep compassion. The supports of a porch last winter made but a cold roosting
place for three such wanderers within sight of our study window, and never did we behold them,
'mid a storm of sleet and rain, huddle down in their cold, ill-protected beds, without resolving
another winter should see a home prepared for them.

ALLEN'S HUMMING BIRD.

The Humming birds, with their varied beauties, constitute the most remarkable feature of the
bird-life of America. They have absolutely no representatives in any other part of the world,
the Swifts being the nearest relatives they have in other countries. Mr. Forbes says that they
abound most in mountainous countries, where the surface and productions of the soil are most
diversified within small areas. They frequent both open and rare and inaccessible places, and
are often found on the snowy peaks of Chimborazo as high as 16,000 feet, and in the very lowest
valleys in the primeval forests of Brazil, the vast palm-covered districts of the deltas of
the Amazon and Orinoco, the fertile flats and savannahs of Demarara, the luxurious and beautiful
region of Xalapa, (the realm of perpetual sunshine), and other parts of Mexico. Many of the
highest cones of extinct and existing volcanoes have also furnished great numbers of rare species.

These birds are found as small as a bumble bee and as large as a Sparrow. The smallest is from
Jamaica, the largest from Patagonia.

Allen's Hummer is found on the Pacific coast, north to British Columbia, east to southern Arizona.

Mr. Langille, in "Our Birds in their Haunts," beautifully describes their flights and manner
of feeding. He says "There are many birds the flight of which is so rapid that the strokes
of their wings cannot be counted, but here is a species with such nerve of wing that its wing
strokes cannot be seen. 'A hazy semi-circle of indistinctness on each side of the bird is all
that is perceptible.' Poised in the air, his body nearly perpendicular, he seems to hang in
front of the flowers which he probes so hurriedly, one after the other, with his long, slender
bill. That long, tubular, fork-shaped tongue may be sucking up the nectar from those rather
small cylindrical blossoms, or it may be capturing tiny insects housed away there. Much more
like a large sphynx moth hovering and humming over the flowers in the dusky twilight, than
like a bird, appears this delicate, fairy-like beauty. How the bright green of the body gleams
and glistens in the sunlight. Each imperceptible stroke of those tiny wings conforms to the
mechanical laws of flight in all their subtle complications with an ease and gracefulness that
seems spiritual. Who can fail to note that fine adjustment of the organs of flight to aerial
elasticity and gravitation, by which that astonishing bit of nervous energy can rise and fall
almost on the perpendicular, dart from side to side, as if by magic, or, assuming the horizontal
position, pass out of sight like a shooting star? Is it not impossible to conceive of all this
being done by that rational calculation which enables the rower to row, or the sailor to sail
his boat?"

    "What heavenly tints in mingling radiance fly,
    Each rapid movement gives a different dye;
    Like scales of burnished gold they dazzling show,
    Now sink to shade, now like a furnace glow."

THE GREEN-WINGED TEAL.

Just a common Duck?

No, I'm not. There is only one other Duck handsomer than I am, and he is called the Wood Duck.
You have heard something about him before. I am a much smaller Duck, but size doesn't count
much, I find when it comes to getting on in the world--in our world, that is. I have seen a
Sparrow worry a bird four times its size, and I expect you have seen a little boy do the same
with a big boy many a time.

What is the reason I'm not a common Duck?

Well, in the first place, I don't waddle. I can walk just as gracefully as I can swim. Your
barn-yard Duck can't do that. I can run, too, without getting all tangled up in the grass,
and he can't do that, either. But sometimes I don't mind associating with the common Duck.
If he lives in a nice big barn-yard, that has a good pond, and is fed with plenty of grain,
I visit him quite often.

Where do I generally live?

Well, along the edges of shallow, grassy waters, where I feed upon grass, seeds, acorns, grapes,
berries, as well as insects, worms, and small snails. I walk quite a distance from the water
to get these things, too.

Can I fly?

Indeed I can, and very swiftly. You can see I am no common Duck when I can swim, and walk,
and fly. You can't do the last, though you can the first two.

Good to eat?

Well, yes, they say when I feed on rice and wild oats I am perfectly delicious. Some birds
were, you see, born to sing, and flit about in the trees, and look beautiful, while some were
born to have their feathers taken off, and be roasted, and to look fine in a big dish on the
table. The Teal Duck is one of those birds. You see we are useful as well as pretty. We don't
mind it much if you eat us and say, "what a fine bird!" but when you call us "tough," that
hurts our feelings.

Good for Christmas?

Oh, yes, or any other time--when you can catch us! We fly so fast that it is not easy to do;
and can dive under the water, too, when wounded.

Something about our nests?

Oh, they are built upon the ground, in a dry tuft of grass and weeds and lined with feathers.
My mate often plucks the feathers from her own breast to line it. Sometimes she lays ten eggs,
indeed once she laid sixteen.

Such a family of Ducklings as we had that year! You should have seen them swimming after their
mother, and all crying, Quack, quack, quack! like babies as they were.

THE GREEN-WINGED TEAL.

A handsome little Duck indeed is this, well known to sportsmen, and very abundant throughout
North America. It is migratory in its habits, and nests from Minnesota and New Brunswick northward,
returning southward in winter to Central America and Cuba.

The green wing is commonly found in small flocks along the edges of shallow, grassy waters,
feeding largely upon seeds of grasses, small acorns, fallen grapes or berries, as well as aquatic
insects, worms, and small snails. In their search for acorns these ducks are often found quite
a distance from the water, in exposed situations feeding largely in the night, resting during
the day upon bogs or small bare spots, closely surrounded and hidden by reeds and grasses.

On land this Duck moves with more ease and grace than any other of its species except the Wood
Duck, and it can run with considerable speed. In the water also it moves with great ease and
rapidity, and on the wing it is one of the swiftest of its tribe. From the water it rises with
a single spring and so swiftly that it can be struck only by a very expert marksman; when wounded
it dives readily.

As the Teal is more particular in the selection of its food than are most Ducks, its flesh,
in consequence, is very delicious. Audubon says that when this bird has fed on wild oats at
Green Bay, or soaked rice in the fields of Georgia or Carolina, it is much superior to the
Canvas back in tenderness, juiciness, and flavor.

G. Arnold, in the Nidologist, says while traveling through the northwest he was surprised to
see the number of Ducks and other wild fowl in close proximity to the railway tracks. He found
a number of Teal nests within four feet of the rails of the Canadian Pacific in Manitoba. The
warm, sun-exposed banks along the railway tracks, shrouded and covered with thick grass, afford
a very fair protection for the nests and eggs from water and marauders of every kind. As the
section men seldom disturbed them--not being collectors--the birds soon learned to trust them
and would sit on their nests by the hour while the men worked within a few feet of them.

The green-winged Teal is essentially a fresh-water bird, rarely being met with near the sea.
Its migrations are over the land and not along the sea shore. It has been seen to associate
with the Ducks in a farmer's yard or pond and to come into the barn-yard with tame fowls and
share the corn thrown out for food.

The nests of the Teal are built upon the ground, generally in dry tufts of grass and often
quite a distance from the water. They are made of grass, and weeds, etc., and lined with down.
In Colorado under a sage brush, a nest was found which had been scooped in the sand and lined
warmly with down evidently taken from the bird's own breast, which was plucked nearly bare.
This nest contained ten eggs.

The number of eggs, of a pale buff color, is usually from eight to twelve, though frequently
sixteen or eighteen have been found. It is far more prolific than any of the Ducks resorting
to Hudson's Bay, and Mr. Hearn says he has seen the old ones swimming at the head of seventeen
young when the latter were not much larger than walnuts.

In autumn the males usually keep in separate flocks from the females and young. Their notes
are faint and piping and their wings make a loud whistling during flight.

THE BLACK GROUSE.

    Alone on English moors I've seen the Black Cock stray,
    Sounding his earnest love-note on the air.
                                                    --ANON.

Well known as the Black Cock is supposed to be, we fancy few of our readers have ever seen
a specimen. It is a native of the more southern countries of Europe, and still survives in
many portions of the British Islands, especially those localities where the pine woods and
heaths afford it shelter, and it is not driven away by the presence of human habitation.

The male bird is known to resort at the beginning of the nesting season to some open spot,
where he utters his love calls, and displays his new dress to the greatest advantage, for the
purpose of attracting as many females as may be willing to consort with him. His note when
thus engaged is loud and resonant, and can be heard at a considerable distance. This crowing
sound is accompanied by a harsh, grating, stridulous kind of cry which has been compared to
the noise produced by whetting a scythe. The Black Cock does not pair, but leaves his numerous
mates to the duties of maternity and follows his own desires while they prepare their nests,
lay their eggs, hatch them, and bring up the young. The mother bird, however, is a fond, watchful
parent, and when she has been alarmed by man or a prowling beast, has been known to remove
her eggs to some other locality, where she thinks they will not be discovered.

The nest is carelessly made of grasses and stout herbage, on the ground, under the shelter
of grass and bushes. There are from six to ten eggs of yellowish gray, with spots of light
brown. The young are fed first upon insects, and afterwards on berries, grain, and the buds
and shoots of trees.

The Black Grouse is a wild and wary creature. The old male which has survived a season or two
is particularly shy and crafty, distrusting both man and dog, and running away as soon as he
is made aware of approaching danger.

In the autumn the young males separate themselves from the other sex and form a number of little
bachelor establishments of their own, living together in harmony until the next nesting season,
when they all begin to fall in love; "the apple of discord is thrown among them by the charms
of the hitherto repudiated sex, and their rivalries lead them into determined and continual
battles, which do not cease until the end of the season restores them to peace and sobriety."

The coloring of the female is quite different from that of the male Grouse. Her general color
is brown, with a tinge of orange, barred with black and speckled with the same hue, the spots
and bars being larger on the breast, back, and wings, and the feathers on the breast more or
less edged with white. The total length of the adult male is about twenty-two inches, and that
of the female from seventeen to eighteen inches. She also weighs nearly one-third less than
her mate, and is popularly termed the Heath Hen.

THE AMERICAN FLAMINGO.

In this interesting family of birds are included seven species, distributed throughout the
tropics. Five species are American, of which one reaches our southern border in Florida. Chapman
says that they are gregarious at all seasons, are rarely found far from the seacoasts, and
their favorite resorts are shallow bays or vast mud flats which are flooded at high water.
In feeding the bill is pressed downward into the mud, its peculiar shape making the point turn
upward. The ridges along its sides serve as strainers through which are forced the sand and
mud taken in with the food.

The Flamingo is resident in the United States only in the vicinity of Cape Sable, Florida,
where flocks of sometimes a thousand of these rosy vermillion creatures are seen. A wonderful
sight indeed. Mr. D. P. Ingraham spent more or less of his time for four seasons in the West
Indies among them. He states that the birds inhabit the shallow lagoons and bays having soft
clayey bottoms. On the border of these the nest is made by working the clay up into a mound
which, in the first season, is perhaps not more than a foot high and about eight inches in
diameter at the top and fifteen inches at the base. If the birds are unmolested they will return
to the same nesting place from year to year, each season augmenting the nest by the addition
of mud at the top, leaving a slight depression for the eggs. He speaks of visiting the nesting
grounds where the birds had nested the previous year and their mound-like nests were still
standing. The birds nest in June. The number of eggs is usually two, sometimes only one and
rarely three. When three are found in a nest it is generally believed that the third has been
laid by another female.

The stature of this remarkable bird is nearly five feet, and it weighs in the flesh six or
eight pounds. On the nest the birds sit with their long legs doubled under them. The old story
of the Flamingo bestriding its nest in an ungainly attitude while sitting is an absurd fiction.

The eggs are elongate-ovate in shape, with a thick shell, roughened with a white flakey substance,
but bluish when this is scraped off. It requires thirty-two days for the eggs to hatch.

The very fine specimen we present in BIRDS represents the Flamingo feeding, the upper surface
of the unique bill, which is abruptly bent in the middle, facing the ground.

THE BIRDS OF BETHLEHEM.

I.

    I heard the bells of Bethlehem ring--
      Their voice was sweeter than the priests';
    I heard the birds of Bethlehem sing
      Unbidden in the churchly feasts.

II.

    They clung and swung on the swinging chain
      High in the dim and incensed air;
    The priest, with repetitions vain,
      Chanted a never ending prayer.

III.

    So bell and bird and priest I heard,
      But voice of bird was most to me--
    It had no ritual, no word,
      And yet it sounded true and free.

IV.

    I thought child Jesus, were he there,
      Would like the singing birds the best,
    And clutch his little hands in air
      And smile upon his mother's breast.
                       R. W. GILDER, in The Century.

THE BIRD'S STORY.

THE VERDIN.

A dainty little creature indeed is the Yellow-headed Bush Tit, or Verdin, being smaller than
the largest North American Humming Bird, which inhabits southern Arizona and southward. It
is a common bird in suitable localities throughout the arid regions of Northern Mexico, the
southern portions of Texas, Arizona, New Mexico, and in Lower California. In spite of its diminutive
size it builds a remarkable structure for a nest--large and bulky, and a marvel of bird architecture.
Davie says it is comparatively easy to find, being built near the ends of the branches of some
low, thorny tree or shrub, and in the numerous varieties of cacti and thorny bushes which grow
in the regions of its home.

The nest is globular, flask-shaped or retort shape in form, the outside being one mass of thorny
twigs and stems interwoven, while the middle is composed of flower-stems and the lining is
of feathers. The entrance is a small circular opening. Mr. Atwater says that the birds occupy
the nests during the winter months. They are generally found nesting in the high, dry parts
of the country, away from tall timber, where the thorns are the thickest. From three to six
eggs are laid, of a bluish or greenish-white or pale blue, speckled, chiefly round the larger
end, with reddish brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The woods were made for the hunters of dreams,
      The brooks for the fishers of song.
    To the hunters who hunt for the gunless game
      The woods and the streams belong.
    There are thoughts that moan from the soul of the pine,
      And thoughts in the flower-bell curled,
    And the thoughts that are blown from the scent of the fern
      Are as new and as old as the world."

THE BRONZED GRACKLE.

You can call me the Crow Blackbird, little folks, if you want to. People generally call me
by that name.

I look something like the Crow in the March number of BIRDS, don't I? My dress is handsomer
than his, though. Indeed I am said to be a splendid looking bird, my bronze coat showing very
finely in the trees.

The Crow said Caw, Caw, Caw! to the little boys and girls. That was his way of talking. My
voice is not so harsh as his. I have a note which some people think is quite sweet; then my
throat gets rusty and I have some trouble in finishing my tune. I puff out my feathers, spread
my wings and tail, then lifting myself on the perch force out the other notes of my song. Maybe
you have seen a singer on the stage, instead of a perch, do the same thing. Had to get on his
tip-toes to reach a high note, you know.

Like the Crow I visit the cornfields, too. In the spring when the man with the plow turns over
the rich earth, I follow after and pick up all the grubs and insects I can find. They would
destroy the young corn if I didn't eat them. Then, when the corn grows up, I, my sisters, and
my cousins, and my aunts drop down into the field in great numbers. Such a picnic as we do
have! The farmers don't seem to like it, but certainly they ought to pay us for our work in
the spring, don't you think? Then I think worms as a steady diet are not good for anybody,
not even a Crow, do you?

We like nuts, too, and little crayfish which we find on the edges of ponds. No little boy among
you can beat us in going a-nutting.

We Grackles are a very sociable family, and like to visit about among our neighbors. Then we
hold meetings and all of us try to talk at once. People say we are very noisy at such times,
and complain a good deal. They ought to think of their own meetings. They do a great deal of
talking at such times, too, and sometimes break up in a fight.

How do I know? Well, a little bird told me so.

Yes, we build our nest as other birds do; ours is not a dainty affair; any sort of trash mixed
with mud will do for the outside. The inside we line with fine dry grass. My mate does most
of the work, while I do the talking. That is to let the Robin and other birds know I am at
home, and they better not come around.

                           Yours,
                       MR. BRONZED GRACKLE.

THE BRONZED GRACKLE.

By the more familiar name of Crow Blackbird this fine but unpopular bird is known, unpopular
among the farmers for his depredations in their cornfields, though the good he does in ridding
the soil, even at the harvest season, of noxious insects and grubs should be set down to his
credit.

The Bronzed Grackle or Western Crow Blackbird, is a common species everywhere in its range,
from the Alleghenies and New England north to Hudson Bay, and west to the Rocky Mountains.
It begins nesting in favorable seasons as early as the middle of March, and by the latter part
of April many of the nests are finished. It nests anywhere in trees or bushes or boughs, or
in hollow limbs or stumps at any height. A clump of evergreen trees in a lonely spot is a favorite
site, in sycamore groves along streams, and in oak woodlands. It is by no means unusual to
see in the same tree several nests, some saddled on horizontal branches, others built in large
forks, and others again in holes, either natural or those made by the Flicker. A long list
of nesting sites might be given, including Martin-houses, the sides of Fish Hawk's nests, and
in church spires, where the Blackbirds' "clatterin'" is drowned by the tolling bell.

The nest is a coarse, bulky affair, composed of grasses, knotty roots mixed with mud, and lined
with fine dry grass, horse hair, or sheep's wool. The eggs are light greenish or smoky blue,
with irregular lines, dots and blotches distributed over the surface. The eggs average four
to six, though nests have been found containing seven.

The Bronze Grackle is a bird of many accomplishments. He does not hop like the ordinary bird,
but imitates the Crow in his stately walk, says one who has watched him with interest. He can
pick beech nuts, catch cray fish without getting nipped, and fish for minnows alongside of
any ten-year-old. While he is flying straight ahead you do not notice anything unusual, but
as soon as he turns or wants to alight you see his tail change from the horizontal to the vertical--into
a rudder. Hence he is called keel-tailed.

The Grackle is as omnivorous as the Crow or Blue Jay, without their sense of humor, and whenever
opportunity offers will attack and eat smaller birds, especially the defenseless young. His
own meet with the like fate, a fox squirrel having been seen to emerge from a hole in a large
dead tree with a young Blackbird in its mouth. The Squirrel was attacked by a number of Blackbirds,
who were greatly excited, but it paid no attention to their demonstrations and scampered off
into the wood with his prey. Of their quarrels with Robins and other birds much might be written.
Those who wish to investigate their remarkable habits will do well to read the acute and elaborate
observations of Mr. Lyndes Jones, in a recent Bulletin of Oberlin College. He has studied for
several seasons the remarkable Bronze Grackle roost on the college campus at that place, where
thousands of these birds congregate from year to year, and, though more or less offensive to
some of the inhabitants, add considerably to the attractiveness of the university town.

THE RING-NECKED PHEASANT.

We are fortunate in being able to present our readers with a genuine specimen of the Ring-Necked
species of this remarkable family of birds, as the Ring-Neck has been crossed with the Mongolian
to such an extent, especially in many parts of the United States, that they are practically
the same bird now. They are gradually taking the place of Prairie Chickens, which are becoming
extinct. The hen will hatch but once each year, and then in the late spring. She will hatch
a covey of from eighteen to twenty-two young birds from each setting. The bird likes a more
open country than the quail, and nests only in the open fields, although it will spend much
time roaming through timberland. Their disposition is much like that of the quail, and at the
first sign of danger they will rush into hiding. They are handy and swift flyers and runners.
In the western states they will take the place of the Prairie Chicken, and in Ohio will succeed
the Quail and common Pheasant.

While they are hardy birds, it is said that the raising of Mongolian-English Ring-Necked Pheasants
is no easy task. The hens do not make regular nests, but lay their eggs on the ground of the
coops, where they are picked up and placed in a patent box, which turns the eggs over daily.
After the breeding season the male birds are turned into large parks until February.

