Jeremy saw that day the old fragment of castle wall, the green expanse falling like a sheeted
waterfall from the Cathedral heights, the blue line of river flashing in the evening sun between
the bare-boughed trees, the long spaces of black shadow spreading slowly over the colour, as
though it were all being rolled up and laid away for another day; the brown frosty path of
the Rope Walk, the farther bank climbing into fields and hedges, ending in the ridge of wood,
black against the golden sky. And all so still! As the children stood there they could catch
nestlings' faint cries, stirrings of dead leaves and twigs, as birds and beasts moved to their
homes; the cooing of the rooks about the black branches seemed to promise that this world should
be for ever tranquil, for ever cloistered and removed; the sun, red and flaming above the dark
wood, flung white mists hither and thither to veil its departure. The silence deepened, the
last light flamed on the river and died upon the hill.

"Now, children, come along do," said the Jampot who had been held in spite of herself, and
would pay for it, she knew, in rheumatism to-morrow. It was then that Jeremy's God-flung sense
of power, born from that moment early in the day when he had sat in the wicker chair, reached
its climax. He stood there, his legs apart, looking upon the darkening world and felt that
he could do anything--anything...

At any rate, there was one thing that he could do, disobey the Jampot.

"I'm not coming," he said, "till I choose."

"You wicked boy!" she cried, her temper rising with the evening chills, her desire for a cup
of hot tea, and an aching longing for a comfortable chair. "When everyone's been so good to
you to-day and the things you've been given and all--why, it's a wicked shame."

The Jampot, who was a woman happily without imagination, saw a naughty small boy spoiled and
needing the slipper.

A rook, taking a last look at the world before retiring to rest, watching from his leafless
bough, saw a mortal spirit defying the universe, and sympathised with it.

"I shall tell your mother," said the Jampot. "Now come, Master Jeremy, be a good boy."

"Oh, don't bother, Nurse," he answered impatiently. "You're such a fuss."

She realised in that moment that he was suddenly beyond her power, that he would never be within
it again. She had nursed him for eight years, she had loved him in her own way; she, dull perhaps
in the ways of the world, but wise in the ways of nurses, ways that are built up of surrender
and surrender, gave him, then and there, to the larger life...

"You may behave as you like, Master Jeremy," she said. "It won't be for long that I'll have
the dealing with you, praise be. You'll be going to school next September, and then we'll see
what'll happen to your wicked pride."

"School!" he turned upon her, his eyes wide and staring.

"School!" he stared at them all.

The world tumbled from him. In his soul was a confusion of triumph and dismay, of excitement
and loneliness, of the sudden falling from him of all old standards, old horizons, of pride
and humility... How little now was the Village to him. He looked at them to see whether they
could understand. They could not.

Very quietly he followed them home. His birthday had achieved its climax...

CHAPTER II. THE FAMILY DOG

I

That winter of Jeremy's eighth birthday was famous for its snow. Glebeshire has never yielded
to the wishes of its children in the matter of snowy Christmases, and Polchester has the reputation
of muggy warmth and foggy mists, but here was a year when traditions were fulfilled in the
most reckless manner, and all the 1892 babies were treated to a present of snow on so fine
a scale that certainly for the rest of their days they will go about saying: "Ah, you should
see the winters we used to have when we were children..."

The snow began on the very day after Jeremy's birthday, coming down doubtfully, slowly, little
grey flakes against a grey sky, then sparkling white, then vanishing flashes of moisture on
a wet, unsympathetic soil. That day the snow did not lie; and for a week it did not come again;
then with a whirl it seized the land, and for two days and nights did not loosen its grip.
From the nursery windows the children watched it, their noses making little rings on the window-pane,
their delighted eyes snatching fascinating glimpses of figures tossed through the storm, cabs
beating their way, the rabbit-skin man, the milkman, the postman, brave adventurers all, fighting,
as it seemed, for their very lives.

For two days the children did not leave the house, and the natural result of that was that
on the second afternoon tempers were, like so many dogs, straining, tugging, pulling at their
chains.

It could not be denied that Jeremy had been tiresome to everyone since the afternoon when he
had heard the news of his going to school next September. It had seemed to him a tremendous
event, the Beginning of the End. To the others, who lived in the immediate present, it was
a crisis so remote as scarcely to count at all. Mary would have liked to be sentimental about
it, but from this she was sternly prevented. There was then nothing more to be said...

Jeremy was suddenly isolated from them all. His destiny was peculiar. They were girls, he was
a boy. They understood neither his fears nor his ambitions; he needed terribly a companion.
The snow, shutting them in, laughed at their struggles against monotony. The nursery clock
struck three and they realised that two whole hours must pass before the next meal. Mary, her
nose red from pressing on the window-pane, her eyes gazing through her huge spectacles wistfully
at Jeremy, longed to suggest that she should read aloud to him. She knew that he hated it;
she pretended to herself that she did not know.

Jeremy stared desperately at Helen who was sitting, dignified and collected, in the wicker
chair hemming a minute handkerchief.

"We might play Pirates," Jeremy said with a little cough, the better to secure her attention.
There was no answer.

"Or there's the hut in the wood--if anyone likes it better," he added politely. He did not
know what was the matter. Had the Jampot not told him about school he would at this very moment
be playing most happily with his village. It spread out there before him on the nursery floor,
the Noah family engaged upon tea in the orchard, the butcher staring with fixed gaze from the
door of his shop, three cows and a sheep absorbed in the architecture of the church.

He sighed, then said again: "Perhaps Pirates would be better."

Still Helen did not reply. He abandoned the attempted control of his passions.

"It's very rude," he said, "not to answer when gentlemen speak to you."

"I don't see any gentlemen," answered Helen quietly, without raising her eyes, which was, as
she knew, a provoking habit.

"Yes, you do," almost screamed Jeremy. "I'm one."

"You're not," continued Helen; "you're only eight. Gentlemen must be over twenty like Father
or Mr. Jellybrand."

"I hate Mr. Jellybrand and I hate you," replied Jeremy.

"I don't care," said Helen.

"Yes, you do," said Jeremy, then suddenly, as though even a good quarrel were not worth while
on this heavily burdened afternoon, he said gently: "You might play Pirates, Helen. You can
be Sir Roger."

"I've got this to finish."

"It's a dirty old thing," continued Jeremy, pursuing an argument, "and it'll be dirtier soon,
and the Jampot says you do all the stitches wrong. I wish I was at school."

"I wish you were," said Helen.

