No. 60.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 21. 1850. [Price Threepence. Stamped Edition 4d.

       *       *       *       *       *{489}

CONTENTS.

  Notes:--                                                   Page
    Division of Intellectual Labour                           489
    On a Passage in "Love's Labour's Lost"                    490
    Treatise of Equivocation                                  490
    Parallel Passages, by Albert Cohn                         491
    Minor Notes:--True or False Papal Bulls--Burning Bush
      of Sinai--The Crocodile--Umbrella--Rollin's Ancient
      History, and History of the Arts and Sciences--MSS.
      of Locke--The Letter [gh]--A Hint to Publishers         491
  Queries:--
    Bibliographical Queries                                   492
    Minor Queries:--Meaning of "Rab. Surdam"--Abbot Richard
      of Strata Florida--Cardinal Chalmers--Armorial
      Bearings--"Fiat Justitia"--Painting by C. Bega--Darcy
      Lever Church--R. Ferrer--Writers on the
      Inquisition--Buckden--True Blue--Passage in
      "Hamlet"--Inventor of a secret Cypher--Fossil Elk of
      Ireland--Red Sindon--Lights on the Altar--Child's
      Book by Beloe                                           493
  Replies:--
    Mercenary Preacher, by Henry Campkin                      495
    "The Owl is abroad," by Dr. E.F. Rimbault                 495
    Old St. Pancras Church, by J. Yeowell                     496
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Cardinal Allen's
      Admonition--Bolton's Ace--Portrait of Cardinal
      Beaton--"He that runs may read"--Sir George
      Downing--Burning to Death, or Burning of the
      Hill--The Roscommon Peerage--The Word "after"
      in the Rubric--Disputed Passage in the
      "Tempest"--Lady Compton's Letter--Midwives
      licensed--Echo Song--The Irish Brigade--To save
      one's bacon--"The Times" Newspaper and the Coptic
      Language--Luther's Hymns--Osnaburg Bishopric--Scandal
      against Queen Elizabeth--Pretended reprint of Ancient
      Poetry--Martin Family--Meaning of "Ge-ho"--Lady Norton  497
  Miscellaneous:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                    501
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                              501
    Notices to Correspondents                                 502
    Advertisements                                            502

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

DIVISION OF INTELLECTUAL LABOUR.

Every one confesses, I believe, the correctness of the principle called "Division of labour."
But if any one would form an adequate estimate of the ratio of the effect produced, in this
way, to the labour which is expended, let him consult Dr. Adam Smith. I think he states, as
an example, that a single labourer cannot make more than ten pins in a day; but if eight labourers
are employed, and each of them performs one of the eight separate processes requisite to the
formation of a pin, there will not merely be eight times the number of pins formed in a day,
but nearly eighty times the number. (Not having the book by me, I cannot be certain of the
exact statistics.)

If this principle is proved, then, to be of such extraordinary utility, why should it not be
made serviceable in other matters besides the "beaver-like" propensity of amassing wealth and
satisfying our material desires? Why should not your periodical be instrumental in transferring
this invaluable principle to the labours of the intellectual world? If your correspondents
were to send you abstracts or précis of the books which they read, would there not accrue a
fourfold benefit? viz.:

1. A division of intellectual labour; so that the amount of knowledge available to each person
is multiplied in an increasing ratio.

2. Knowledge is thus presented in so condensed a form as to be more easily comprehended at
a glance; so that your readers can with greater facility construct or understand the theories
deducible from the whole circle of human knowledge.

3. Authors and inquiring men could tell, before expending days on the perusal of large volumes,
whether the particulars which these books contain would be suitable to the object they have
in view.

4. The unfair criticisms which are made, and the erroneous notions diffused by interested reviewers,
would in a great measure be corrected, in the minds, at least, of your readers.

You might object that such précis would be as partial as the reviews of which the whole literary
world complain. But, in the first place, these abstracts would be written by literary men who
are not dependent on booksellers for their livelihood, and would not therefore be likely to
write up trashy books or detract from the merit of valuable works, for the sake of the book
trade. And besides, your correspondents give their articles under their signature, so that
one could be openly corrected by another who had read the same work. Again, it is only the
leading idea of the book which you would require, and no attendant praise or blame, neither
eulogistic exordium nor useless appeals to the reader. The author, moreover, might send you
the skeleton of his own book, and {490} you would of course give this the prior place in your
journal.

Another objection is, that the length of such précis would not permit them to come within the
limits of your work. But they should not be long. And even if one of them should take up four
or five pages, you could divide it between two or three successive numbers of your periodical.
And, besides, your work, by embracing this object, would be greatly increased in utility; the
number of your subscribers would be multiplied, and the increased expense of publication would
thus be defrayed.

But, if the advantages resulting from such a division of intellectual labour would be as great
as I fondly hope, I feel sure that the energy and enterprise which caused you to give a tangible
reality to your scheme for "Notes and Queries" would also enable you to overcome all difficulties,
and answer all trifling objections.

R.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST.

In Love's Labour's Lost, Act II. Sc. 1., Boyet, speaking of the King of Navarre and addressing
the Princess of France, says:

  "All his behaviours did make their retire
  To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire:
  His heart, like an agate, with your print impressed,
  Proud with his form, in his eye pride expressed:
  His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
  Did stumble with haste in his eyesight to be;
  All senses to that sense did make their repair,
  To feel only looking on fairest of fair."

This speech is a remarkable specimen of the affected style of compliment prevalent in the time
of Elizabeth. The third couplet, at first sight, appears to have a signification exactly opposed
to that which the context requires. We should expect, instead of "the tongue all impatient
to speak," to find "the tongue all impatient to see."

No one of the editors of Shakspeare appears to me to have given a satisfactory explanation
of this passage. I therefore venture to offer the following.

In the Latin poets (who in this followed the Greeks) we find adjectives and participles followed
by the genitive case and the gerund in di. Thus in Horace we have "patiens pulveris atque solis,"
"patiens liminis aut aquæ coelestis," and in Silius Italicus (vi. 612.), "vetus bellandi."
For other instances, see Mr. Baines' Art of Latin Poetry, pp. 56-60.

The Latin poets having taken this license, then proceeded a step further, and substituted the
infinitive mood for the gerund in di. I cannot find any instance either of "patiens" or "impatiens"
used in this connection; but numerous instances of other adjectives and participles followed
by the infinitive mood may be found in pp. 68. to 73. of the Art of Latin Poetry. I cite two
only, both from Horace: "indocilis pauperiem pati," "quidlibet impotens sperare."

Following these analogies, I suggest that the words "impatient to speak and not see" mean "impatient
of speaking (impatiens loquendi) and not seeing," i.e., "dissatisfied with its function of
speaking, preferring that of seeing."

This construction, at least, renders the passage intelligible.

X.Z.

       *       *       *       *       *

TREATISE OF EQUIVOCATION.

(Vol. ii., pp. 168. 446.)

I feel greatly indebted to J.B. for a complete solution of the question respecting this ambiguous
book. Bewildered by the frequent reference to it by nearly cotemporaneous writers, I had apprehended
it certain, that it had been a printed, if not a published work; and that even a second edition
had altered the title of the first. It is now certain, that its existence was, and is, only
in manuscript; and that the alteration was intended only for its first impression, if printed
at all. It is a fact not generally known, that many papal productions of the time were multiplied
and circulated by copies in MS.: Leycester's Commonwealth, of which I have a very neat transcript,
and of which many more are extant in different libraries, is one proof of the fact.[1] I observe
that in Bernard's very valuable Bibliotheca MSS., &c., I had marked under Laud Misc. MSS.,
p. 62. No. 968. 45. A Treatise against Equivocation or Fraudulent Dissimulation, what I supposed
might be the work in request: but being prepossessed with the notion that the work was in print,
I did not pursue any inquiry in that direction. I almost now suspect that this is the very
work which J.B. has brought to light. I had hoped during the present year to visit the Bodleian,
and satisfy myself with an inspection of the important document. I am additionally gratified
with the information relative to the same subject by Mr. Sansom, p. 446. J.B. observes, that
the MS. occupies sixty-six pages only. Will no one have the charity for historic literature
to make it a public benefit? If with notes, so much the better. It is of far more interest,
as history is concerned, and that of our own country, than many of the tracts in the Harleian
or Somers' Collections. Parsons's notice of it in his Mitigation, and towards the end, as if
he was just then made acquainted with it, is very {491} characteristic and instructive. He
knew of it well enough, but thought others might not.

Again I say, why not print the work?

J.M.

    [We have reason to believe that this important historical
    document is about to be printed.]

[Footnote 1: A Memorial for the Reformation in England, by R.P. (Parsons), of which I have
a well transcribed copy, is another. It was published by Gee.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PARALLEL PASSAGES.

In Ovid we find the following parallel:--

  "... jacet ecce Tibullus,
  Vix manet e toto parva quod urna capit."

A second one appears in the pretended lines on the sepulchre of Scipio Africanus:--

  "Cui non Europa, non obstitit Africa unquam,
  Respiceres hominem, quem brevis urna premit."

The same reflection we find in Ossian:--

  "With three steps I measure thy grave,
  O thou, so great heretofore!"

It is very difficult indeed to determine in which of these passages the leading thought is
expressed best, in which is to be found the most energy, the deepest feeling, the most touching
shortness. I think one should prefer the passage of Shakspeare, because the direct mention
of the corporal existence gives a magnificent liveliness to the picture, and because the very
contrast of the space appears most lively by it; whereas, at the first reading of the other
passages, it is not the human being, consisting of body and soul, which comes in our mind,
but only the human spirit, of which we know already that it cannot be buried in the grave.

One of the most eminent modern authors seems to have imitated the passage of Shakspeare's Henry
IV. Schiller, in his Jungfrau von Orleans, says:--

  "Und von dem mächt'gen Talbot, der die Welt
  Mit seinem Kriegeruhm füllte, bleibet nichts
  Als eine Hand voll leichten Staubs."

  (And of the mighty Talbot, whose warlike
  Glory fill'd the world, nothing remains
  But a handful of light dust.)

Albert Cohn.

Berlin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

True or False Papal Bulls.--

    "Utrum bulla papalis sit vera an non.

    "Si vis scire utrum literæ domini Papæ sint veraces vel non,
    numera punctos quæ sunt in bulla. Et si inveneris circulum
    ubi sunt capita apostolorum habentem 73 punctos, alium vero
    circulum 46, alium super caput Beati Petri habentem 26, alium
    super caput Sancti Pauli habentem 25 punctos, et punctos quæ
    sunt in barbâ 26, veraces sunt; alioquin falsæ.--Sir Matthew
    Hale's Manuscripts, Library of Lincoln's Inn, vol. lxxiii.
    p. 176.

To which may be added, that in digging for the foundations of the new (or present) London Bridge,
an instrument was dug up for counterfeiting the seals or Bullæ? Where is it now deposited?

J.E.

Burning Bush of Sinai.--

    "Pococke asserts that the monks have planted in their garden
    a bush similar to those which grow in Europe, and that by
    the most ridiculous imposture, they hesitate not to affirm
    that it is the same which Moses saw--the miraculous bush.
    The assertion is false, and the alleged fact a mere
    invention."--Geramb's Pilgrimage to Palestine, &c., English
    trans.

March 1. 1847. The bush was exhibited by two of the monks at the back of the eastern apse of
the church, but having its root within the walls of the chapel of the burning bush. It was
the common English bramble, not more than two years old, and in a very sickly state, as the
monks allowed the leaves to be plucked by the English party then in the convent. The plant
grows on the mountain, and therefore could be easily replaced.

Viator.

The Crocodile (Vol. ii., p. 277.).--February, 1847, a small crocodile was seen in the channel,
between the island of Rhoda and the right bank of the Nile.

Viator.

Umbrella.--It was introduced at Bristol about 1780. A lady, now eighty-three years of age,
remembers its first appearance, which occasioned a great sensation. Its colour was red, and
it probably came from Leghorn, with which place Bristol at that time maintained a great trade.
Leghorn has been called Bristol on a visit to Italy.

Viator.

