"It was decided it would be best to mask Hay's real identity. So, officially, he was sent to
the hospital; in reality he came here, under the name of Praed. Why? Because there's a spy
somewhere--we don't seem to be able to track him; he's infernally clever--and if the famous
Captain Hay was switched to Base 5, putting the two best pilots in the service together, that
spy'd know something was in the air. Understand?"

Lance nodded dumbly. A great light was beginning to shower him.

"To more completely mask our true purpose," the colonel continued, "Hay was instructed to make
it appear as if he were a spy. And it was a damned hard job! The real spy, whoever he is, and
wherever he is, would thus be additionally fooled; for all he'd know, the Slavs might have
sent another over to back him up. That's why Hay never shot down an enemy plane. Says something
about his skill as a pilot, doesn't it? Never able to defend himself, save by maneuvering.
He's a great flyer!"

Lance could only nod dumbly again.

"After a couple of weeks at this base," Douglas went on, "Hay was to cross the lines one night
with you accompanying him. You, unintentionally, would thus occupy the enemy planes while Hay
attended to the real business of the evening. And you did splendidly!"

"The real business?" Lance questioned. "What the devil was that? I thought the real business
was to get the dope on Hill 333."

"So it was--partially. But also to take the first step of the Torpedo Plan, which was for Hay
to switch over to a Slav plane."

"What?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The colonel repeated his statement, somewhat dryly. Lance's square jaw dropped abruptly. "But--but--"
he exclaimed, "how the devil could he do that?"

Colonel Douglas grinned.

"By a very neat contraption from the brain of one of our most valuable scientists," he explained.
"Hay's scout was specially fitted up before you left; while you were sleeping, in fact. Two
experts from Washington arrived with that batch of new recruits this afternoon. A tiny sliding
door was cut in the fuselage of the scout and a sort of folding ladder put inside. It was motivated
by some rather complex spring-work; but the really ingenious thing about it was the powerful
electro-magnet at its base.

"It's rather over my head," he smiled. "I'm a plain fighting man, and sometimes it seems that
scientists and not fighting men are going to win this war.... But, at any rate, it worked like
this:

"Hay lures, or maneuvers, a Slav plane away from its fellows, and while you're down below entertaining
the others, flies wing to wing with it. He touches the spring of his ladder and it shoots out,
powerfully magnetized, and clamps onto the steel fuselage of the Slav. The automatic control
keeps Hay's scout steady, and the ladder is so highly attractive that the Slav simply can't
get away. Hay crosses the gulf, taking with him the cord which controls the electro-magnet.
He forces his way into the Slav, shoots down its pilot, releases the pull of the magnet, and--there
you are! Our best pilot in possession of a Slav plane, and clad in a Slav officer's uniform!
Do you get the idea now?"

Lance strove for appropriate words. "Gee!" he spluttered. "It's--it's wonderful! And to think
I tried to start a fight with Hay! I wish I'd known before. But I suppose," he added, "it was
best to let not even me in on it, to keep it absolutely secret."

"Exactly!"

"And now what's Hay's mission?" Lance asked eagerly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Douglas' face became sober. "A damnably dangerous one, and a mighty desperate one.
As I said, the Torpedo Plan, which Hay is striving to carry out, seems to be America's last
chance. We're holding the United Slavs, but only just. We simply can't break their line or
make any headway against them; and when they do unleash their big push, there's nothing to
stop them! So we're gambling everything on this slim hope.

"American science," he continued, "has perfected a weapon which is called the 'flying torpedo.'
It's a ghastly thing, too. Damn it, I actually feel sorry for the poor devils it bursts on!
It's a sort of riposte to their disintegrating flame.

"Picture a huge tanklike affair of steel, one hundred feet long. Picture a few dozen of them!
Picture them crammed to overflowing with tons of glyco-scarzite, the most destructive explosive
the mind of man has yet conceived. An explosive that can't be hurled in a shell and can't be
dropped in a bomb from a plane. A pound or so of it, man, lays waste a square mile of anything!
Even our scientists are a bit afraid of it. They've been trying to think up a way of unleashing
it at the Slavs. And these flying torpedoes seem to be the answer.

"The torpedoes are purely mechanical. Therefore, they can soar to any height whatsoever. Twenty,
thirty, even forty miles. All right. Now, picture a dozen or so of these torpedoes soaring
over the most important Slav bases and headquarters, thirty miles above the earth, at night,
of course, and absolutely invisible to the most powerful search-rays. They fly without the
slightest sounds. Get that? Well, when this squadron of awful death arrives at the exact point
over the place to be demolished, the motive force switches off and down they crash. Imagine
what will happen when they collide with the ground!" Douglas, with Lance's tense eyes on him,
struck a clenched fist into an open palm.

"Tons of glyco-scarzite, Lance! Unleashed, without warning, from miles above! Thirty of these
torpedoes, each a hundred feet long, dropping down on the very heart of the Slav invasion!
Killing, blowing to bits, rather, every living thing, every fortification, every tree, every
tank, every gun, every flame thrower, every plane in a radius of hundreds of miles!"

"God!" came from Lance's numb lips. "God!"

"But"--and the colonel held up a straight forefinger--"these torpedoes must be guided from
the place they raid!"

Into the silence Lance whispered: "And that--that is Hay's job?"

"That," Douglas confirmed levelly, "is Hay's job--and yours."

       *       *       *       *       *

Their eyes met; held. And then Lance's clean young face smiled.

"Thank God, sir," he cried, "that I'm to help strike the blow that'll free our country!"

Colonel Douglas answered his smile with a smile. "Lance," he said, "it's because Washington
has put this job into Hay's and your hands that I know--I know--it will succeed."

"It will!"

Douglas lowered his voice again. "This is why those flying torpedoes must be guided from the
Slav's innermost base.

"In the first place, they fly too high for an accompanying plane to guide them. In the second,
the power that releases them to hurtle downwards must come from the enemy base itself, to permit
of no possible error. This must not fail!"

"But," put in Lance, "how do the torpedoes fly? What motivates them?"

"A closely guarded secret, of course," he was told. "I merely possess a slight comprehension
of it. I know that it is an adaptation of that discovery of Professor Singe, two years ago--cosmic
attraction. Eventually, perhaps, it will permit interplanetary travel. This use of it is simply
the beginning. But it is to America's everlasting glory that a scientist of hers developed it.

"You know how a sliver of wood is propelled by the ripples of a pond? Vibrations of the water,
really. Well, evidently there are somewhat similar vibrations in the ether, cosmic force. Each
one of these flying torpedoes contains a highly expensive, intricate mechanism which transforms
this invisible vibration-power into material propulsion. The mechanism is adjusted to propel
the torpedo at such an altitude in such a direction. We possess no means of setting the machines
to stop at a certain place and so tumble earthwards. That's where you and Hay come in.

"Hay is now, with forged documents, passing himself off as a regular Slav pilot. He speaks
the tongue. Two nights from now, you, Lance, keep a rendezvous with Hay at an isolated ranch
in the Lake Tahoe country--the Sola Ranch, where we staged that big fight a few months back."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lance nodded.

"In your plane is an instrument which is the kernel of the scheme. It arrives here to-morrow.
It's a device which shoots an invisible beam fifty miles into the air, a negative beam, in
sympathy with the machinery on the torpedoes. Hay sets this device near the Slav headquarters.
The torpedo squadron takes off from a few hundred miles behind here, flying in the direction
of the heart of the Slav forces. When they run into the beam, their motive power is nullified,
and down they fall. Crash! The Slavs are wiped out. Our troops charge forward in a grand attack;
the Slavs, with no armament, no reinforcing troops, no supply of tanks and flame throwers,
crumple. The invasion of America is put to an end!"

Lance rose. His face was alight, his eyes burning with strong, unquenchable fire.

"It's great, sir, great! It can't fail! By God, if it takes every last drop of my blood, I'll
help Hay put this through!"

Colonel Douglas extended his right hand and Lance's met it in a firm shake. In the thick silence
they stood thus for some minutes. Then, without moving so much as a cheek muscle, the colonel
whispered, his eyes tense:

"The door! Fling it open! I think someone's been listening!"

Lance switched his alarmed gaze to it. His muscles went taut. The next moment he had leaped
half across the room, jammed back the lock, and ripped the door wide.

At the other end of the dim passageway he glimpsed a scurrying figure!

Lance sprang after it with a shout to Douglas. Tearing out his automatic, he flung a burst
of lead at the figure, but that instant it wheeled and sped from sight down another passage.
And when Lance got there, no one was in sight.

       *       *       *       *       *

For awhile he probed around, desperately, but could find no sign of anything. The base slept.
Sorely troubled, he returned to find the colonel just coming back from an equally barren search:

"Don't think he heard much," said Douglas grimly. "It must have been that damned spy who's
been getting information of our movements. I'll have the guards redoubled to prevent him from
getting anything through." He smiled at sight of Lance's anxious face. "No need for too much
worry, Lance! He couldn't have heard much--the walls are sound-proof and the door fairly tight.
Now, you go and rip off some sleep! You need it! No more work for you till Wednesday night--you're
too important!"

Sleep! Lance only wished he could. But the thrill of what he'd just heard was too fresh, too
new; the blood pumped surgingly through his veins; his brain whirled with the thought of the
glorious enterprise he and Hay were aiding so vitally.

Then, too, the night was humid and sweaty. For a while Lance lay on his cot, other sleeping
figures to left and right of him, but his own eyes simply would not stay closed. Finally, after
perhaps an hour of trying to doze off, he arose and, clad only in breeches and undershirt,
wandered outside again with a cigarette glowing in his mouth.

The war might not have been, the night was so silent. Lance strolled lazily around the plane
hangars, revelling in what little breeze there was. He seemed to be the only living thing abroad
in the night.

Then, suddenly, he flung down his cigarette and ground the butt out quickly. For he saw he
was not the only living thing abroad in the night. Sliding rapidly away from the end hangar
was a dark form!

Lance crouched instinctively and crept forward. Who was the other wanderer? Not a sentry: they
paced a regular beat closer to Douglas' office. Not another, who, like himself, could not sleep
and had sought the open. This figure was going somewhere! It had a definite object in mind!

Sheltering himself behind the hangars' bulk, Lance advanced as stealthily as he could. Coming
to the end one, he peered round its blunt corner. Fifty yards ahead, crossing a stubbly stretch
of open ground, the mysterious prowler hurried onward.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night was dark, the moon troubled by ragged bursts of listless, heavy clouds. Lance bent
almost double and left the shelter of the black hangar. Feeling his way carefully, he followed
the other.

Was this the unknown spy? The spy, going to transmit the news he had overheard?

Lance muttered a curse. He had no weapon with him; the spy, if he were a spy, would certainly
be armed. But that didn't matter; it was merely unfortunate. He must track the other down,
at all cost.

For some minutes he crept on in this manner. The other kept hurrying forward. Lance noted a
clump of brush far ahead; the figure was evidently making for this. And sure enough, as if
acting directly on Lance's thought, the dark form entered the patch of growth--and did not
come out on the other side.

Lance broke into a trot, eyes wary and alert for sign of his prey. At any second he might be
greeted by a salvo of bullets, and every fiber of his lean body was taut.

As he approached the clump of brush he dropped to the ground, and came finally to it on his
belly. From a distance of about ten feet, he rose and charged.

Expecting each moment to hear the spit of a revolver, he was more alarmed by what actually
did greet him.

Nothing. The patch of brush was empty!

"Well I'll be damned!" Lance murmured. "Where did he get to?"

He gazed around, bewildered. The growth of bush was about ten feet wide. On either side the
flat Nevada plain stretched away--empty. No figure was visible.

Lance was utterly baffled. The fellow had vanished as if by magic. Flown away into thin air!

       *       *       *       *       *

The young captain stood quite still, listening, probing his puzzled brain.

Then, like a cat, he dropped to the ground again, and pressed an ear to it. For his ears had
caught a tiny betraying hum.

A hum! There was a machine of some type near him. He listened intently. The hum came from the
ground on which he lay. There had to be a trap-door.

Lance's fingers scrabbled around, and presently found what they looked for.

He seized the ring which enabled one to pull the trap-door back, and was just about to pull
when he heard, from below, a voice speaking in Russian. It was, then, the spy!

Lance grasped the ring anew, and, exerting all his strength, hauled the trap-door back.

A narrow passageway was revealed, lit by a lamp. The hum burst with doubled force on his ears.
He plunged down, fists clenched, and half tumbled into a tiny room gouged from the soil.

At one end was a mass of machinery, and a microphone hung suspended before it. And speaking
into the microphone was the heavy-set form of a man in American uniform, his back to Lance.
As the latter charged down, he rose with an alarmed shout, and wheeled around.

"My God!" breathed Lance.

It was Ranth, Colonel Douglas' orderly!

       *       *       *       *       *

Ranth!

His dark face flushed with fury, he came leaping from his seat. The wicked little revolver
hung at his belt sprang out, but Lance's right fist shot forward, knocked Ranth's hand high
and sent the gun clattering to the ground. Then, for a moment, they faced each other, the hum
of the radiophone droning an ominous accompaniment.

"You!" Lance muttered. "So you were the spy!"

Ranth answered him with a choked oath and leaped forward again.

There were no niceties to that combat. It was a matter of life and death, and each knew it.
Ranth would kill him, Lance knew, if he possibly could; and he, he had to kill or capture Ranth.
Otherwise the news of the Torpedo Plan would go through, Ranth would return to the base, and
the secret of the hidden radio never be known. Another would be put in Lance's place; and when
Hay kept his rendezvous at Sola Ranch....

He had to win.

No effort was made at defense, for those first few furious minutes. A veritable fusillade of
hurtling fists stormed through the air. They each gave and took equally. Then Ranth's heavy
shoulders bunched; cunningly he feinted, then, whirling, swung a vicious right hand smash to
Lance's chin.

Lance reeled, fell, seeing Ranth's hate-contorted visage dance queerly in the close air before
him. The orderly clutched for his revolver, and Lance bounded up as if spring-impelled, nailed
the other with two lightninglike jabs and unleashed all his strength in an uppercut which sprawled
Ranth in a limp, quivering heap.

       *       *       *       *       *

Panting, Lance surveyed him, then turned to get the gun. He felt the shock of thudding flesh
in his legs, and fell again with Ranth scrambling on top of him. Steel-ribbed hands pounced
on his throat, gouged savagely, while the man above grunted thick curses from his slavering
mouth. Lance struggled fiercely; saw a curtain of black rush down. Desperately he hooked a
booted leg up, craned it over Ranth's back, tugged. The terrible fingers loosened. Lance shook
them off, rolled the other over and leaped once more to his feet, right hand clenched and ready.

Ranth staggered up. The young man measured him, pivoted, and smashed his beefy jaw with a clean
swing that had every ounce of Lance's hard young body behind it.

The orderly shot back as if struck by a locomotive. He crashed into the radiophone, splintered
the delicate instruments and slumped, eyes glazed, to the ground.

He was out. Dead out.

But how much bad he got through on the radiophone before being stopped?

Had he told where the rendezvous, was to be? Told the time and place, and warned the Slavs
to look for Hay?

Lance sighed, and was conscious that his left eye was rapidly closing, that a lip was split
and his whole body sore. He slung Ranth over his shoulders and trudged wearily back to the base.

He told his story to Colonel Douglas' amazed ears. Ranth, come back to life, was slapped in
handcuffs, and for some time the colonel put him through a stern inquisition.

But his lips were sealed. He would not divulge how much he had succeeded in passing on to the
Slavs.

"A brave man," Douglas observed grimly when Ranth was carried off to the brig, "but it's death
for him, the same as it would be death for Hay were he caught."

"I don't think he had a chance to get much across, sir," Lance said. "I was right on him almost
as soon as he got there. You won't let this cancel our rendezvous?"

Douglas' thin lips smiled narrowly. "No. You'll be taking a greater chance, Lance, but we must
gamble on how much the Slavs know. You're game, aren't you?"

"Yes, sir!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Wednesday night came. Thunderstorms muttered to each other on the lowering horizons; gusts
of fierce, wind-driven rain slanted down on the dripping base; occasionally a crooked finger
of lightning probed the black sky and lit the whole sopping countryside with a searing, flashing
glare.

The night patrol had taken off. A single plane, wet and gleaming under the sobbing heavens,
stood on the tarmac, two heavily coated figures before it. Presently three more figures, carrying
some bulky black object carefully between them, emerged from one of the buildings. Tenderly
they placed this object in the lone plane, which had been stripped of radio outfit and gas
bomb compartment to provide room. Then the two original figures were left alone once more before
the fighting machine. Far to the rear, the heavy American guns barked in their regular nightly
bombardment.

"A good night for it," Colonel Douglas, scanning the sky, said, "and also a bad one. If only
that damned lightning would stop!"

Lance, pulling on thick gloves, did not reply. The colonel consulted his watch.

"What time do you make it?" he asked.

"Exactly eight," the other answered.

"Right. At eight-six, you leave. At nine, on the dot, you meet Hay at Sola Ranch. At nine-ten,
the torpedoes take off. At quarter to ten, they arrive over their destination--San Francisco
and the surrounding territory. And quarter to ten, if things go correctly--which they must!--is
the minute that ends the Slavish invasion of America. At ten minutes to ten, five minutes after
the torpedoes strike, our troops charge forward in general attack. God be with you, Lance!
The fate of America is resting on your shoulders to-night, remember!"

"I'm remembering."

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Douglas looked at the young man's grim, set face, looked at his lithe, clean-limbed
figure and his steady black eyes which burned with a purposeful fire. And the colonel smiled.

"We'll win!" he said.

An orderly sped from his office, saluted, and rapped crisply:

"Order just received from Washington, sir, to proceed."

Lance clasped Douglas' hand, and leaped into the snug, enclosed cockpit. The four motors bellowed
as the thin-sprayed oil cascaded to them. The helicopter props spun around.

"Go to it, kid!" cried Douglas. "Spy or no spy, you're coming out on top! And give Hay a last
handshake for me!"

And he swung to the salute.

Lance extended his hand. Then he gave his ship the gun, and the tiny, streamlined scout teetered,
roared, and rose with a scream into the dripping darkness high above.

The Torpedo Plan had started.

PART IV

Lance hung for a moment at one thousand feet. A crack of lightning lit the base below for a
second, and he perceived the colonel's straight figure with hand outstretched. Lance grinned,
and gunned to forty thousand--an easy flying height, with his superchargers pumping and air-rectifiers
normalizing the enclosed pilot's seat.

"But what," he wondered, as he stopped the helicopters, "did he mean by 'give a last handshake'?"

He was soon to find out.

Behind him, in the fuselage, nestled the weird cluster of machinery which was the Singe beacon.
It certainly did not look imposing--a mass of spidery tubes mazing round a bulky black box,
which was, Lance guessed, some new type of generator. Out of the top of the device sprouted
a funnel-like horn, from which, on the adjustment of the beacon's control studs, shot the nullifying
ray. Lance could not suppress a shiver as he thought of the earth-shaking cataclysm that ray
would conjure from the infinitely high heavens.

At forty thousand feet he was above the storm clouds, whose pitchy, vapor-drenched blackness
effectively blanked out all sign of the earth. He might have been flying in outer space. Keeping
a careful eye on his instruments, he set a course for Sola Ranch. He kept his speed around
three hundred, wishing to meet Hay exactly at nine.

But--would Hay be there?

How much did the Slavs know? How much had Ranth got through before he stopped him?

A frown creased his brow. It was best not to puzzle over that question. Best just to go ahead,
and keep going.

       *       *       *       *       *

At about three minutes to nine he set the plane's nose down through veils of clammy cloud.
This was mountainous country, sparsely patrolled by Slav ships. Lance hovered cautiously over
the firred mountain tops, getting his directions, shooting wary eyes through the magnifying
mirrors in search of enemy scouts. He saw none. Satisfied, he cut the Rahl-Diesels, gunned
the helicopter props and dropped lightly down on the stubbly field of Sola Ranch.

To left and right loomed the dim outlines of the lonely mountains. Before the war, the owner
of Sola Ranch had grown apples; this field had housed a few horses. It made a perfect meeting
place--secluded, misty with the clinging mountain vapors, far apart from the war.

Lance felt like a prowling werewolf there, waiting for its ghostly mate.

Rain was still splattering in desultory bursts, but distance muted the rumbling salvos' of
thunder. His watch told him it was one minute to nine.

Now--what?

Hay, or a swooping squadron of Slav planes?

Lance stepped out of the cockpit into the rain, though holding himself tensely ready to leap
back again and soar away. He stared around, and peered above.

Was that a shadow?--a nightmare flying bird?--or a plane?

He grasped a hand-flash, and rapidly signalled his identity. The next instant, it seemed, the
shadow wavered, then fell earthward with great speed.

Out of the gloom and rain it came--an enemy plane.

It dropped down beside his scout. From its cockpit came a few swift flashes of light.

Hay!

       *       *       *       *       *

Lance ran eagerly over to the other plane, and out from its enclosed cabin stepped the man
he had known as Praed.

Wordlessly, they gripped hands. Hay's thin, straight face wore a smile, and he met Lance's
eyes keenly. Lance stammered:

"S-sorry, Captain Hay, about--about the way I treated you at the base. You see, I had no idea
who you were."

Hay cut short his apologies with a laugh. "Rot! I'd've been the same way myself." He glanced
rapidly at Lance's plane. "Got it?" he questioned. "I'm a bit late; had a hell of a time getting
here without arousing suspicion. We'd best hurry."

Lance nodded. They hurried to the Goshawk. As they worked, carefully lifting out the Singe
beacon, Lance, in crisp, short-clipped sentences, told his companion of Ranth, the spy.

"You don't know how much he got through?"

"No," said Lance. "No."

"Hm-m. Well, we'll have to trust to luck."

"You know the working of the beacon?" Lance asked. On the other's nod of affirmation he continued:
"What's your plan?"

"Light about five miles this side of Frisco itself, just near the main Slav military base.
Anywhere in that territory would do, though. The beacon doesn't go up in a narrow ray; it spreads,
diffuses. The squadron of torpedoes will cover some fifty or sixty miles of ground, I believe.
They'll utterly demolish the city, and every damned Slav in it." His face, in the darkness,
went grim and hard. "And it'll damn well pay them back," he rasped, "for the horrible way they
massacred San Francisco's population...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Singe beacon was in his plane. Hay turned to Lance, stretching out his hand for a farewell
clasp. Then Lance asked the question that had been worrying him.

"Colonel Douglas told me to give you a last handshake for him. Last. Why did he say that?"

"Because," Hay said smilingly, "I'm staying by the beacon to make sure that nothing goes wrong.
I guess that's why he said it, old fellow...."

Lance gasped: "You're sacrificing your life?"

"Of course. To save seventy-five million others."

Then suddenly they both stared above.

A roar of sound--of purring motors, of props, mixed with the chatter of a dozen machine-guns--had
belched with numbing suddenness from the low-hanging clouds.

Enemy planes! A patrol of them!

"God!" jerked Lance. "Ranth's warning got through! Part of it, anyway!"

He leaped for his plane, shouting: "I'll hold 'em off! You get away quick!" and, through a
veritable hail of lead, sprang into the cockpit.

Then, a cold pang at his heart, he sprang out again.

A bullet had caught Hay!

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment, the Slav fire ceased, while their planes zoomed up to start another death-dealing
dive. And in that moment Lance was at Hay's side, where he had fallen.

"They--got me," whispered Hay, a stream of blood welling from his gasping mouth. "I'm--I'm
going. C-carry me to--to your plane. I've still a--a little strength left. You take the beacon.
I--I'll hold them--as--as long as--I can. Put through that beacon, boy! Put it though!"

His brain a maelstrom, Lance stared at the crumpled figure. It was the only way! He heard the
motors above come roaring down again; desperately he carried the blood-choking Hay to his own
plane; propped him limply at the controls. Bullets spat through a frenzy of noise. Weakly Hay
started the Goshawk's Diesels, and weakly, into Lance's face, smiled, and beckoned him to leave.

And, as Lance, a grim resolve at his heart, turned, Hay's blood-frothed lips formed the words:
"Carry on!"

Through the raining lead, seeming to bear a charmed life, Lance leaped to Hay's plane, hearing
as he did so his own, with a stricken pilot at its controls, hurtle upwards.

Carry on! For the life of America!

Carry on!

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes past the hour of nine. A full thousand miles behind the lines, on the wide black
field of America's major war base, a small group of men stood, surveying the awesome weapons
assembled there.

Row upon row of huge, dully-gleaming cigar-shaped things stretched away into the darkness before
them. There were only one or two faint lights to give illumination, and the night choked in
on them, making them terrifying.

They resembled, more than anything else, half-sized dirigibles, being roughly about one hundred
feet long and perhaps as much as thirty feet high. At first sight, they seemed to be numberless;
then, as the bewildered eye became more sane, one could count them and see that there were,
in reality, about thirty. Their prows were stubby; in the port side of each a tiny trap-door
yawned, and standing by every trap-door was the overall-clad figure of a mechanic, waiting
for the signal.

The Commander of the American Air Force looked up from his wrist-watch. At his side was a peculiar
gnomelike figure, a figure with hunched, twisted back and huge, over-heavy head. This was Professor
Singe, and from that ridiculous head had come the germ which had finally expanded into the
torpedoes arrayed before him.

His eyes were nervous; his crooked face twitched ceaselessly. "Time?" he kept asking. "Time?
Is it yet time?" And finally the tall figure of the Commanding Officer turned and rapped: "Time!"

       *       *       *       *       *

An aide-de-camp raised a hand. As if working by some mechanical device, the figure which stood
by each torpedo climbed through the trap-doors, jumped out a second later, and came running
to the head of the field.

"About thirty seconds," muttered Singe nervously, eyes alight. "Thirty seconds for their motors
to catch the stream. Thirty--ah!"

For the squadron of man-made horrors had stirred.

"God pity San Francisco!" murmured the Commanding Officer, and stepped back involuntarily as
the whole fleet lifted their glyco-scarzite crammed bellies from the field and, as if moved
by some magical, unseen, unheard force, shot up into the darkness with ever gathering speed.

"God pity it, indeed!" chuckled Singe exultantly. "It'll need it!"

The C. O. sighed and shook his head slowly. "War!" he mused. "And yet, it's our only chance."
For a moment he paused, seemingly unconscious of the macabre little form next to him, still
gazing aloft at the now invisible torpedoes, and then muttered:

"And God pity Basil Hay, who's giving his life to America--a glorious, unselfish hero. God
pity Basil Hay!"

       *       *       *       *       *

American flyers never knew of Basil Hay's last fight. Had they, it would have become legendary.

For Hay fought a grim battle against two foes. One, he could face and conquer, as he had conquered
often before. But the other lurked next to his dauntless heart, and it Hay could not subdue.

It was death.

Truly, Hay's fight there in the wet clouds above Sola Ranch was an inspired one. He fought
almost by instinct alone, instinct twenty years of piloting had planted deep in his veins.
He fought for Lance--for America. His eyes, glazing rapidly, could not distinguish the roaring
phantoms that laced around his lone plane, but uncannily his bursts of fire went home again
and again, while theirs ripped aimlessly over the Goshawk's hell-driven snout.

Of course it could not last. Gallant spirit alone kept Basil Hay taut at his controls. Spirit
alone thrust back the ever-increasing surge of black oblivion that pounded at his heart and
brain. Spirit alone sent the pitifully outnumbered plane corkscrewing in peerless maneuverings
that baffled the on-passing Slavs and thrust four of them to the sodden ground in flame. Spirit
that would not surrender--but had to.

They could never have conquered Basil Hay in a plane. An ambushing bullet that caught him off
guard did that. And finally Hay fell.

But he had kept them for ten full minutes. Ten minutes--each one a lasting, mute testimony
to his unquenchable, unyielding spirit.

He flung a last salvo from his hot machine-guns, then, heart numbing, jerked back the control-stick
and careened high. He slumped down. The plane paused, wallowed crazily for a moment, and then
roared earthward, "Carry on!" formed faintly on its dead pilot's bloody lips.

Basil Hay had fought his last fight.

Ten minutes....

Lance hadn't expected that long. He'd thought Hay would die in a few seconds. The man was mortally
wounded; could not last.

Nevertheless, minutes or seconds, he was entrusted with the Singe beacon, and it was his job
and his will to put it through.

He'd climbed the Slav plane up to its ceiling, driven it till it simply refused to go higher,
and then roared on towards San Francisco. Each second he expected to see others come hurtling
after him. When they did not, he knew how really great Hay's will was. It was an inspiring example.

But his brain was tortured by a multitude of conflicting doubts. A patrol of Slav scouts had
ambushed them. Just how much did the Slavs know, then, about the torpedoes?

He, Lance, had to guide the Singe beacon. Quickly he reviewed what Hay had told him.

"Light about five miles this side of Frisco. Anywhere in that territory would do, though. The
beacon doesn't go up in a narrow ray; it spreads, diffuses."

Spreads, diffuses.

Hay had been clad in Slav uniform, and thus could, with a certain measure of safety, put the
beacon machinery on the ground itself. But Lance was in American uniform; if he landed, he
ran great risk of being noticed and attacked at once.

Lance saw immediately that there was only one way out. It was sure death, but Hay had expected
death, and so must he.

His lips set in stern resolve. It meant good-by--farewell to the girl he'd left behind, farewell
to life, farewell to everything--but not for a second did he debate the course he would take.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lance glanced at his watch. Nine-thirty. The torpedoes were even now on their way, hurtling
along miles above the earth. In fifteen minutes they would be over San Francisco. In fifteen
minutes the Singe beacon had to meet them.

He was not familiar with the Slav plane's instruments, but he judged he'd traveled some hundred
and twenty-five miles; was nearing the outskirts of San Francisco. The air below would be thick,
probably, with enemy scouts, but his appearance should pass unchallenged as long as they didn't
glimpse his betraying uniform.

He set the plane's nose down in a long slanting dive.

Whipping through the clouds, the guarding search-rays of San Francisco were soon visible. Lance
saw a few patrols of enemy scouts; he clung to the clouds, decreased his speed, and began circling
over the heart of the metropolis itself.

Twenty to ten.

Occasionally a Slav plane flashed by him. Thank God, they didn't challenge! Lance went still
lower. Finally, at a thousand feet, he set the helicopter props in motion and hung in mid-air--directly
above the very center of the city.

Sixteen minutes to ten.

Now!

       *       *       *       *       *

In the American front-line trenches, massed troops crouched expectantly. Clustered on every
air base were flights of planes, each one crammed with bombs. Far behind, the Yank gun-crews
edged nervously up to their mighty charges, and fingered anxiously the stubby gas shells which
soon would be flung through the dripping night.

And at Base No. 5 a very uneasy Colonel Douglas paced back and forth in his office, muttering:
"No news from Lance! No news from Lance! God! He can't have failed! But why doesn't he show up?"

He had not failed.

Hovering in the plane over San Francisco Lance squirmed round in his seat, reached back into
the fuselage, and pressed rapidly the studs on the Singe beacon. A high whining noise pierced
instantly through the plane. And up stabbed the beacon, invisible, deadly--up, up, up to a
thin realm miles above, where it flashed into an awesome squadron of terrible shells of steel!

Shells that, a second later, wavered, staggered, and plunged earthward!

And Lance tensed in his seat. From above, he caught a tiny whistling noise--a whistling that
hurtled into a terrific shriek--that roared ever closer.

"Carry on!" he muttered. "Carry on!"

The words froze on his lips, for the world was suddenly consumed, it seemed, by flame and splitting,
bellowing thunder.

       *       *       *       *       *

The American guns spoke.

From every aerodrome long flights of scouts and bombers and transport planes roared upward.

In the front trenches the troops, still somewhat dazed by the earth-shaking explosion that
had just tumbled from the far horizon--a horizon still lit by leaping tongues of awful flame--poured
over the top, gas-masks on, repeaters and portable machine-guns at the ready, with a fierce
cry on their lips.

Before that avenging attack the Slavs, their very spine broken, bewildered and confused, already
turning in panic, could not stand.

America swept to the Pacific, and left death in her wake. And when she came to San Francisco,
not even the sternest fighting men, still hot from battle, could repress a shudder, so awful
was the devastation.

The Slav invasion was over!

       *       *       *       *       *

In the rebuilt city of San Francisco there is a statue that stands proudly before the magnificent,
gleaming city hall.

It represents two slim, straight-standing figures, clad in the uniform of the American Air
Force. Their outstretched arms support a tiny one-seater Goshawk fighting plane.

Below, as you know, there is a plaque. Men touch their hats as they walk by it; flowers are
always fresh at its base. On the plaque are the words:

                To The Everlasting
                    Memory Of

             Captain Basil Hay, A.A.F.
             Captain Derek Lance, A.A.F.

           Who, In The War Of 1938, Gave
           Their Lives In Destroying And
             Devastating San Francisco
           That San Francisco And America
                     Might Live

The Tentacles From Below

A COMPLETE NOVELETTE

By Anthony Gilmore

CHAPTER I

"Machine-Fish" Rest ready."

These words glowed in vivid red against the black background of the NX-1's control order-board.
A wheel was spun over, a lever pulled back, and in the hull of the submarine descended the
peculiar silence found only in mile-deep waters. Men rested at their posts, eyes alert.

Above, in the control room, Hemingway Bowman, youthful first officer, glanced at the teleview
screen and swore softly.

