PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 158.

March 10th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

There are one hundred thousand more people living in London than in New York. But they are
only just living.

* * *

"The Home Rule Bill," says The Irish Unionist Alliance, "would, if put into operation, cause
friction in Ireland." We are sorry to hear this, for friction is the last thing we want to
see in Ireland.

* * *

M. GRABSKI, who has just asked for the loan of three thousand million francs, is the Polish
Minister of Finance. Yet people say there is nothing in a name.

* * *

A Welsh Prohibition Bill is suggested. We think it should be pointed out that the Welsh language
is natural and not due to over-indulgence.

* * *

DEMPSEY, the American Boxer, is to be charged with "draft-dodging." The other charge of COCHRAN-dodging
will not be proceeded with.

* * *

Gold in the mouth, says the American Academy of Dental Science, is out of date. Much the same
applies to gold in the pocket.

* * *

We understand that an American syndicate has been formed for the purpose of acquiring the sole
rights in a suit of clothes by a London tailor.

* * *

American whisky is said to create in consumers a desire to climb trees. British whisky, on
the other hand, seems to create in the Americans a desire to cross the Atlantic.

* * *

With reference to the road-mender who fell down last week and injured himself an explanation
has now been given. It appears that the colleague next to him must have moved.

* * *

No fewer than twenty-seven poems on Spring have been received by one weekly paper editor. Yet
there are people who still maintain that the crime wave is on the wane.

* * *

"The Irish swear by two staple beverages," says The Daily Mail. We feel, however, that an Irishman
who was really trying could swear by more than this.

* * *

We understand that the Foreign Office takes a serious view of the large number of public-houses
which have been burgled during the last few weeks. It is feared that it may be the work of
a foreign spy who is endeavouring to secure the recipe of British Government ale.

* * *

"A large number of army tanks have been sent to Africa," announces an article in a daily paper.
However, as the brontosaurus is supposed to devour four of these delicacies at every meal,
it is feared that unless a great many more are sent out immediately this dainty animal may
be faced with extermination.

* * *

A morning paper announces that all airships of "R 34" type are now obsolete. We have decided
to stick a pin in each of ours.

* * *

From Ireland comes the pleasing news that the wife of a well-known Sinn Feiner has just presented
her husband with a little bomberette.

* * *

Since the publication of Professor KEITH'S statistics of efficiency, showing the superiority
of the physical condition of miners over that of almost every other class of worker, the argument,
so popular with the advocates of nationalisation, that a miner's occupation is a most unhealthy
one, has been given a rest.

* * *

"I doubt if even the youngest child to-day will live to see the real fruits of the War," said
the Bishop of Lincoln last week. Another unmerited slight on the O.B.E.

* * *

"Visitors to the Zoo," says The Daily Mail, "should not miss the rare spectacle of the highest
five animals under one roof--the gorilla, the chimpanzee, the orang-outang, the gibbon and
man." Naturally everybody is asking, "Who is the lucky man?"

* * *

A merciless campaign against rats is to be waged by the inhabitants of a large Yorkshire town.
This is supposed to be the outcome of the continued indifference with which these rodents have
treated the many propaganda campaigns which the town has organised.

* * *

Liverpool City Council is to consider the appointment of women park- keepers. In support it
is urged that when it comes to persuading a paper bag to go along quietly the superior tact
of a woman is bound to tell.

* * *

Arrangements for the continuation of the Food Ministry, it is stated, are still incomplete.
It would be a thousand pities if a mere abundance of food should lead to the disappearance
of this valuable department.

* * *

"Will the gentlemen on the Allied Surrender List," says the Berlin Official Gazette, "inform
the German authorities of their address?" This is a typical piece of Teutonic duplicity. There
are, of course, no gentlemen on the List.

* * *

The chiffchaff has been heard in Hampshire and a couple of road-peckers were observed last
week hovering in the neighbourhood of Wellington Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "Principal ---- said there was a historical connection between the
    Royal Asylum for the Insane and the University of Edinburgh."--Scots
    Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The British rule in India is as savage as that of the Turk in
    Armenia."--Washington Times.

Not the "George Washington Times," you'll note.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEN AND THINGS OF THE MOMENT.

    [Mr. Punch cannot hold himself responsible for the views expressed in
    the following correspondence.]

THE MALLABY-DEELEY EMPORIUM.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--I want you to use your influence with that great philanthropist, Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY.
I know that he is too modest to claim to be a benefactor of the race, but I am at least right
in calling him "Mr.," for that is how he describes himself on his shop-window, and he would
never have done that if he had not desired to avoid confusion with the common tradesman. Well,
I want you to enlist his powerful sympathy in the cause of the struggling middle classes, to
which body I belong. I refer particularly to our crying need for dinner-jackets at reasonable
prices. I am one of those who spend their holidays at seaside hotels, where people make a point
of dressing for dinner in the hope of giving their fellow- guests the impression that this
is their daily habit in the home circle. In view of the early advent of Spring I approached
my tailor, the other day, with inquiries as to the cost of an abbreviated dinner-suit. His
prices were as follows:--jacket £10 10s. 0d.; waistcoat £3 3s. 0d.; trousers £4 10s. 0d.; total
£18 3s. 0d. I am old enough to recall the time when the most élite tailors of Savile Row charged
no more than £10 10s. 0d. for a complete evening costume, uncurtailed.

I am all for the cheap supply of "gentlemen's lounge-suits" for the so-called working-classes
to lounge in. I know of no surer antidote to the spirit of Bolshevism. But let us not forget
the claims of the middle classes, who are the backbone of the Empire. If Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY
cannot help us in the direction I have indicated, then let Mr. KENNEDY JONES, on behalf of
the Middle Class Union, put a hyphen to his name and open a shop for the sale of evening wear
at demi-popular prices.

  Yours faithfully,
  SURBITONIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--It would be a thousand pities if Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY'S beneficent scheme should
fail for lack of advertisement. Could you not persuade your colleagues of the Press to publish
from day to day the route of his car's progress from his private residence (or the terminus
from which he debouches) to his place of business, as in the case of the new Member for Paisley?
My only fear is that the Coalition Government might be suspected of adopting the Wee Free methods
of publicity for political ends; but this would surely be an unworthy suspicion in the case
of a movement designed for the benefit not of a party, but of mankind.

  Yours faithfully,
  STAGE MANAGER.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DECLINE OF LEARNING.

DEAR SIR,--I look for your sympathy when I say that I regard the abolition of compulsory Greek
at Oxford as tantamount to the collapse of the last bulwark of British Culture. It is idle
for the advocates of this act of vandalism to protest that the spirit of Ancient Hellas can
be adequately conveyed in the form of translations, and to illustrate this futile argument
by reference to the authorised version of the Hebrew Scriptures. Admirable as that version
may be, is it for a moment to be supposed that it can take the place of the original as a source
of spiritual education? or that our appreciation of Holy Writ would not be a hundred-fold increased
if it were fortified by a knowledge of the first principles of Hebraic syntax and by an elementary
acquaintance with Hebraic composition. It is impossible to estimate the influence of such knowledge
in tending to endear the Bible to our youth. To me indeed it has always been incomprehensible
that our Prelates, who presumably have the welfare of the Church at heart, have never insisted
on making Hebrew a compulsory subject for Responsions.

And now Greek has gone and Oxford is the home of one more lost cause. The gods (of the gallery)
may be with the winners, but it is the losing side that still appeals to

  Yours incorruptibly,
  CATO.

       *       *       *       *       *

"THE TIMES' FLIGHT."

DEAR MR. PUNCH,--His many friends (among whom I take leave to count myself) will heartily sympathise
with Dr. CHALMERS MITCHELL on the engine troubles he has passed through, culminating in the
enforced curtailment of his scientific expedition. It is gratifying to think that the pure
and lofty spirit of research which animated the great newspaper-proprietor who sent him forth
on this mission has been vindicated by the Doctor's discovery of an unmapped volcano. Regrettably
the conditions under which he observed it precluded him from making an expert survey of it,
and even from securing specimens of its geological structure. The possibility of such an unfortunate
contingency, which may have escaped the consideration of the promoter of the expedition, was
recognised by other scientists. But it was confidently expected by his Zoological confrères
that his voyage of exploration would add largely to our knowledge of the habits and customs
of the fauna of Africa, and notably of the giraffe, as coming, by the exceptional development
of its neck, within closest range of his vision as he flew through the vast inane.

Even better opportunities for the observation of animal life would, it was thought, occur during
the occasional intervals spent on terra firma for purposes of repose or repair. And indeed
one is greatly intrigued by the following terse and airmanlike entry in the log for February
20th: "Much disturbed by lions." Nothing is said of the actual capture of one of these interesting
denizens of the jungle, but reference to such a feat might well have been omitted out of regard
for brevity. Is it too much to hope that the enterprise of The Times may yet be rewarded by
the addition of a live lion to the Zoological Gardens?

In any case, by the exceptional opportunities he enjoyed for a careful study of leaking cylinder
jackets, insulating tape, red-leaded joints and missing engines the intrepid Doctor must have
added largely to his knowledge of mechanical science, to say nothing of the botanical discoveries
he made when his machine came within a few inches of contact with a banana-tree.

I, for one, look forward eagerly to his return, when he will be able to narrate his experience
with a fulness and freedom of language impossible in cabled despatches.

  Yours faithfully,
  STANLEY LIVINGSTONE JONES.

       *       *       *       *       *

A "MALADE IMAGINAIRE"?

    "Bath-chair wanted, small lady good condition."--Ladies' Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CHOICE OF SINECURES.

    "LADY-NURSE-HELP; three girls (12, 10, eight); two maids kept; month's
    holiday (fortnightly); salary £40."--Daily Paper.

    "WANTED, a Housemaid, wages 27s. 6d., no duties."--New Zealand Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Lady would like to Join jolly Family for Dinner every night."--Advt.
    in Daily Paper.

Yes, but how long would they remain jolly?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Windsor Castle Niggers, from His Majesty's Chapel Royal, gave an
    excellent programme."--Local Paper.

The programme merely announced them as "Windsor Castle Singers," but this no doubt was to give
the audience a greater surprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The revival of the Hunt Ball, and the intelligence that the Race Ball
    is also to be re-introduced next month, has restored the ---- dance
    season to its pre-war brilliance. The Hunt event passed off with
    éclair."--Local Paper.

Supper seems to have been all right, anyhow.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WON ON THE POSTS.

(With the British Army in France.)

The decisive victory of the Racing Club de Petiteville--late the deuxième équipage of the Sportif
Club de Petiteville--over the troisième équipage of the Société Athlétique de Pont Neuf would
not appear to have any bearing on the washing of Percival's collars and pyjamas; but, according
to Elfred Fry, there was a poignant connection between the two.

When the Sportif Club received the challenge they doubted whether to accept it, as the Société
Athlétique was rumoured to include several veterans approaching fifteen years of age and of
tremendous physique. On being conceded the choice of ground, however, they took up the gage
and trained and practised with such vigour that two days before the date of the match Georges
Darré, right back, punted his toe through a previously suspected weak spot in the ball and
irreparably ruined it. The Société Athlétique was informed of the disaster and asked to supply
a ball, but they answered that no known authority or precedent existed for visiting teams providing
the accessories. There was also an insinuation that the story of the burst ball was a fabrication,
designed to give the Sportif Club a loophole of escape from a contest that spelt certain defeat.

Stung to the quick, the deuxième équipage made an urgent appeal to the premier équipage of
the Sportif Club, who replied that this was the first intimation they had had of the existence
of a deuxième équipage, and recommended a tourney at marbles or a combat of peg-tops as being
more suitable to their tender years.

Naturally this insult could not be brooked, and it was decided to break away from the parent
body and reorganise under the title of the Racing Club de Petiteville; but this did not help
them to solve the question of a new ball. Then it was that Théo Navet, left half, and son of
the blanchisseuse in the rue Napoléon, had an inspiration, and Percival's pyjamas became linked
up with the destinies of the club.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It wouldn't surprise me, Sir," said Elfred on the evening when Petiteville was ringing with
the news of the Racing Club's victory by 4 buts to 2, "if you are the only officer in Mess
to-night with a reelly clean collar."

"And why am I singled out for so much honour?" asked Percival, taking the slacks which Elfred
produced from between the mattresses. "Has the Washer-women's Union handed in notices and made
a complimentary exception in my case?"

"Well, Sir, you 'ave been favoured, but it weren't a strike," explained Elfred. "You know,
Sir, there's been an alarming short ration of coal an' fuel down in the village for a long
time, an' two days ago Madame Navet, who does the orficers' washing, came up an' said she was
bokoo fashay but the washing was napood for the week, becos she couldn't buy, beg, borrer nor
steal enough fuel to keep her copper biling.... Do we wear the yaller boots to-night, Sir,
or the very yaller ones?"

"The light pair," said Percival, "to give tone to the clean collar. But go on."

"Well, I put it to Madame as my orficer was a very partickler gent, an' she'd gotter do our
washing even if she 'ad to light 'er fire with the family dresser. She said she was desolated;
she 'adn't sufficient coal to take the chill off a mouchoir. I thought of trying to borrer
a sack for 'er from the quarter bloke, but our relations 'ave never been the same since the
time I took my weekly ration of 'Pink Princesses' back an' arsked 'im to change 'em for cigarettes
with a bit o' tobacco in.

"After she'd gone I took a kit inventory 'an found we was down to our last clean collar, an'
we looked like bein' a bit grubby in the matter of pyjamas. I went a walk to the canteen to
think it over, an' on my way Madame's lad came up an' said 'is team 'ad an important match
for two days later an' could I possibly oblige 'em with a football. Being a sportsman--I take
a franc chance in the camp football sweep every week--I said I'd try what I could do, knowin'
of a ball which me an' the other batmen punt about in our rare hintervals of leisure. But then
the thought of that washing that wasn't washed came into my mind.

"'See 'ere, Meredith,' I says. 'Je voo donneray a ball si votre mère does our washing toot sweet.'"

"'E looked blue at this an' said they couldn't get fuel nohow.

"'Compree scrounge?' says I.

"It seems 'e did. It seems scrounging for fuel 'ad reached such a pitch in the village that
people took their backyard fences in at night, 'an they 'ad posted a policeman on the station
to prevent 'em sawing away the waiting-room. But our washing 'ad to be done, 'an I thought
if I got the whole of this football team scrounging they might find something as everyone else
'ad overlooked. So I pretended to be indifferink.

"'Very well,' says I. 'San fairy ann. Napoo washing--napoo ball.'

"That set 'em to work. Next day little boys were scraping the village over like fowls in a
farmyard, getting a chip 'ere an' a shaving there, an' making themselves such a nuisance that
there was talk of calling the gendarmerie out. They would 'ave done, too, only he'd laid down
for a nap an' left strict orders 'e wasn't to be disturbed. Then they slipped into the Camp,
trying to lay nefarious 'ands on empty ration boxes, but the Camp police spotted 'em an' chivied
them off. I never seen our police so exhausted as they were at the end of that day.

"'I can't think what's taken the little varmints,' said the Provost- Sergeant. 'It ain't the
Fifth of November.'

"On the whole it wasn't a good day's 'unting, but this morning I was waited on by a deputation
wearing striped jerseys, which they appeared to 'ave put on at early dawn. They said the fire
was lit under the copper, 'an could they 'ave the ball?

"'Doucemong!' says I. 'Allay along, an' let's see the fire first.'

"Yes, it were lit, but only just. The water was lukewarm an' the fuel 'ad nearly all burned
away, an' Madame was standing looking at it hopelessly.

"'Pas bong,' says I to the lads. 'Pas assay chaud. Voo scroungerez ongcore.'

"They was frantic, becos it was nearly match time. I felt inclined to give 'em the ball, but
the thought of you, Sir, in a dirty collar--"

"You may keep the pair of old riding-breeches you borrowed without permission," interrupted Percy.

"Thank you, Sir. Then all at once the lads 'ad a confab an' went away, an' in a few minutes
they was back with some lovely straight planed props of timber, an' they chopped 'em up in
a jiffy 'an got the fire roaring 'ot, an' I gave 'em the ball, an' your collars is done an'
the rest of your things is out drying an' will be finished to-morrow."

"Of course I'm grateful," said Percival. "You might tell your young friends I'm willing to
be a vice-president of their club--on the usual terms. What's the name of it?"

"They tell me it's called 'The Racing Club,'" said Elfred. "But I think, Sir, you'd better
give your subscription to the other club in the village--'The Sportif Club.' You see, Sir,
they 'ad a match on to-day as well, an' when they arrived on the ground they found someone
'ad been and scrounged their goal-posts!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANNIVERSARY.

Having unexpectedly retained possession of my seat in the Tube the other evening I over-read
myself and ran past my station, so it was rather late when I reached home.

"Hullo!" I called out cheerily.

"Hullo!" echoed Margaret in a flat sort of voice; "you back?"

I refrained from facetiousness and told her that I was.

"Oh!" she said.

"Well, well, Margaret," I said in a bright and bustling manner, "we haven't got on very well
so far, have we? Can't you think of some subject on which we can conduct a conversation in
words of more than one syllable? The skilful hostess should so frame her questions that not
even the shyest visitor can fall back on a simple Yes or No. Now," I continued, spreading myself
luxuriously over the chesterfield, "you know how shy I am. Try to draw me out, dear. I'm waiting."

I lit a cigarette. Margaret looked reproachfully at me.

"What was yesterday?" she said.

"Tuesday, my dear. We will now have a little chat about Tuesday. Coming as it does so soon
after Monday, it not unnaturally exhibits--"

"Tuesday the 25th of February," said Margaret solemnly.

"Possibly, my dear, possibly. But I cannot say that I find your remarks very interesting. They
may be true, or they may not, but they certainly seem to me to lack that agreeable whimsicality
usually so characteristic of you."

"Our wedding-day," said Margaret impressively.

"Was it really?" I said in a whisper. "And you let it pass without reminding me. Oh, how could
you?"

Margaret smiled.

"I didn't think of it till this morning--after you had gone," she said.

We both smiled. Then we laughed.

"You know, we really are a dreadful couple." I said. "Your fault is greater than mine, though.
I'll tell you why. Everyone knows that a man--especially a manly man--" I tugged my moustache
and let my biceps out for a run-- "never remembers anniversaries, whereas a woman--a womanly
woman--does." Here I plucked a daffodil from a bowl near by and tucked it coyly behind her ear.

"It really is rather awful of us." Margaret restored the daffodil to its young companions.
"We've only been married three years, too, and yet already--" She threw out her arms in a hopeless
gesture.

"Still," I said presently, with my hand full of her hand--"still I daresay we shall get used
to it in time--forgetting the day, I mean. After about the fourth lapse there will be hardly
any sting in our little piece of annual forgetfulness."

"We mustn't forget to remember we've forgotten it, though, Gerald, so that we can test the
waning powers of the sting."

"I can see this habit growing on us," I said dreamily; "a few more years and we shall forget
we are married even. I shall come home one day-- provided I remember where we live--and be
horrified to find you established in my house and using my sealing-wax. Or maybe I shall arrive
with some little offering of early rhubarb or forced artichokes only to be sternly ordered
away by a wife who does not recognise me. 'Please take your greens round to the tradesmen's
entrance,' you will say coldly."

"I think," said Margaret, "that we ought to be extra nice to each other now, seeing how short
our married life may be. Let's begin at once. You let me tidy your desk every day for you and--"

"Won't twice a week satisfy you?" I asked desperately.

"Perhaps; and anyway"--she put a little packet into my hand--"here's my present to you, even
though you did forget yesterday."

"You are a dear, Margaret. And now I'll tell you something. It was--"

Just then James came in and announced dinner. James is all our staff; but her other name is
Keziah, so we had no choice.

As we sat down I took a small box out of my pocket.

"Give this to your mistress, please," I said to James.

"O-o-o. How ripping of you, Gerald! So you did remember, after all."

"As soon as I got to the station this morning," I said, "I remembered that our wedding-day
was to-day."

Margaret lifted her eyebrows at me. "To-day?"

"Yes. You are a little behind--or in front of--the times, I'm afraid. The twenty-fifth was
a Tuesday last year, but it's trying Wednesday for a change now. Many Happy Returns of the
Day, dear."

We both laughed.

"Now let's look at our presents," said Margaret happily.

       *       *       *       *       *

DORA AT THE PLAY.

    ["You cannot buy a cigarette, or an ice, or a box of chocolates in a
    theatre after eight o'clock--by order of D.O.R.A."--Advt. passim.]

  Attentive swain, whose lady has commanded you to be at her
  Disposal as an escort on a visit to the theatre,
  I give you precious doctrine that is certainly worth sticking to,
  At least as long as Dora is alive on earth and kicking too.

  If you would keep your fair companion satisfied and cheery, some
  Provision must be made to fill the intervals so wearisome,
  For many a gallant fellow has discovered with a shock o' late
  That after 8 P.M. it's still a crime to sell a chocolate.

  Though you may haunt the bar till ten and confidently mutter "Scotch,"
  She may not even clamour for a humble slab of butterscotch,
  And should the heat suggest an ice--may I be rolled out flat if I
  Distort the truth--it's courting gaol that harmless wish to gratify.

  As for yourself, if you should yearn for blest tobacco's medium
  In those long waits between the Acts to while away the tedium,
  And find you're out of cigarettes, remember that to sell any
  A minute past the fatal hour is counted as a felony.

  Unless the pair of you affect the life ascetic, you'll
  Be well advised to carry in a hamper or a reticule
  A goodly store of provender, both smokeable and eatable,
  For Dora's in the saddle yet and seemingly unseatable.

       *       *       *       *       *

BROODY.

    "Will the Imperial Government hen proceed to a new conquest of Southern
    Ireland?"--Daily Paper.

No, we expect it will be left sitting.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "HIDDEN MUMMIES.

    The Museum authorities are receiving numerous inquiries when the
    mummies will be on view, particularly for school children."--Daily
    Paper.

We hope that the N.S.P.C.C. will see to it that all mummies are allowed to return to their
families without further delay.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLF NOTES.

(With acknowledgments to Mr. A.C.M. Croome.)

APPROACHING.

TAYLOR--or was it JAMES BRAID?--begins one of his classic and illuminating chapters with the
quotation "Ex pede Herculem," nor can even we of the Oxford and Cambridge Golfing Society venture
to differ from so eminent an authority or grudge him so apt a phrase. Verb. sap. and, let me
add, sat. To those, few perhaps in actual reckoning (though I, wearing of right the wine-dark
vesture--were there half Blues in HOMER'S time?--cannot compete with JOHN LOW et hoc genus
omne, Cantabs confessed, in the prestidigitation of numerals and weird signs of values)--to
those, then, few, but of many parts appreciative, who followed a certain foursome at Addington
last week, my premiss should be intrinsically incontrovertible. Partner, whom I had "made"
with a drive well and truly apportioned--ex carne ictum--partner, after much self-searching
and mental recursion to the maxims of TOM MORRIS and LA ROUCHEFOUCAULD, took his ball on the--O
horribile dictu (or shall I say horresco referens?)--well, to be meticulously exact, partner
shanked it. And it is just here that those who have also enjoyed a University education will
pick up--even as partner failed to do--what I, who write, am driving at.

Remembering how dear old W.G.--in those halcyon days when Gloucester was worthy of the cheese
whereof she is now so chary a producer--used to score with that heavy cut between point and
cover, I too, greatly daring, cut it and laid it (the ball, not the cheese) dead. De mortuis
... For assuredly it was good.

The one adornment of this episode should have been a quotation from ARISTOPHANES. It is not,
however, given to all men always to remember. Non cuivis, in fact.

OF IMPACT.

It was at the ensuing consumption of Bohea, or of its substitute as provided by a paternal
Government, that one of the party, with the rashness of a d'Artagnan, reverted to the question
of weight of clubs. ABE MITCHELL'S driver, of course, gave him a handle; but himself he, unaided,
gave away. For it is not to be boasted by every man that he has been blessed with an Alma Mater,
and that consequently logic is to him even as hair and teeth--save only that these twain be
not false. For, said this unhappy wight, increase the weight and the corollary is length increased.

Then arose a certain justly eminent author, whose list of tales is equalled only by the tale
of his handicap, and demonstrably discounted weight without pace.

It was then agreed that a test ad hominem should be applied, and that the result of such test
should determine the individuality of him who should settle with our Ganymede. Partner and
I pushed--gemitu et fremitu--a bulky sideboard against a paper ball. The inertia of the object
was barely overcome.

Then the man of letters flicked it across the room with finger and thumb. And the original
theorist became the poorer by the commercial estimate of four teas and jam.

PUTTING.

It has been said elsewhere, yet may not therefore be wholly lacking in elemental veracity,
that putting is the devil. Systems more numerous than dactyls and spondees in Classic verse,
patent putters outnumbered only by howlers in Oxford responsions, bear witness to this graceless
statement. Quite lately in these columns have I confessed--pulvere cineribusque-- that our
side had twice failed at the inconsiderable distance of two yards, even after discarding the
small thirty-two. But that further confession will be forthcoming is now wildly and preposterously
problematical. For I have discovered the true exorcism for demoniac influence in putting. It
is this: First catch your putter. Put the whole length of the shaft up your sleeve. Then--but
I must retain something for next Saturday's notes, and, besides, I fancy the secretary of the
Club where I am inditing these words has his frugal eye on the consumption of the note-paper.
But what I have written I have written. Litera scripta manet.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COALITION OF 1950.

"Aren't you being rather badly hit by the price of tobacco?" I asked Charles, whose pipe is
a kind of extra limb to him.

"I have just been composing the plot of a novel," he replied with apparent irrelevance. "It
begins something like this:--

"'Slowly and softly the violet dusk set in. The beautiful young Première stood at the window
of her yellow-and-black boudoir, gazing a little wistfully at the almost deserted pavements
of Downing Street. A white pigeon perched--'"

"They aren't white," I said; "they're a sort of purply pinky grey."

"All right," said Charles, unmoved, "only it rather spoils the sentence. 'A sort of purply
pinky grey pigeon perched pompously--'"

"Never mind the pigeon," I said, "tell me what was the trouble with the B.Y.P."

"A change in the leadership of the Opposition. The old leaderess had just retired and her place
had been taken by a new one, a man this time, young and handsome as Apollo, who had thrown
up the Chair of Cinematography at the London University to plunge on to a political platform."

"What was the programme," I inquired, "of this--er--furniture-remover?"

"He was a reactionary," said Charles. "The Première's party had won a not too sweeping victory
at the polls on prohibition (not of alcohol, of course--that had been done long ago--but of
tobacco)."

"How on earth did she do it?"

"National economy, mostly," answered Charles. "She had the wives' vote solid, and they carried
the more docile of the husbands with them. She had to throw out bribes to the unmarried electorate
of both sexes, of course, bribes which she had since been attempting to pay. Powder and chocolates
had been made cheaper. There was the Endowment of Cinemas Act of 1948, and the Subsidized Football
Bill of '49. But all these extravagances had largely ruined the effect of the abolition of
tobacco. At the beginning of that year she had been obliged to cancel the State holiday on
Mondays--"

"Why Mondays?" I inquired.

"Everyone feels beastly on Monday."

"But I don't see why they should feel any better on Tuesday."

"It was twenty-four hours nearer Saturday," he replied, "and Saturday was also a State holiday.
Labour, of course, was infuriated, and unrest was every day becoming more apparent. The by-elections
were going against the Première. And now this new handsome young hero had arisen not only to
crystallise the support of his own sex, but capture the hearts of all the female electorate
under twenty."

"Twenty!" I gasped.

"Everyone over fifteen had the franchise," said Charles calmly. "Now mark you, the programme
of the Opposition was very cunning. They only proposed to reintroduce cigar and cigarette smoking.
Edward Oburn, the young leader, being a film actor, naturally smoked nothing but exquisite
Havanas. In this he had the support of the wealthier employers, but the enormous army of cigarette-suckers,
male and female, was with him.

"But I don't see how he proposed to cut down expenses," I objected.

"He was going to tax the printing of all words over two syllables in length," replied Charles.
"The Press of those days was not affected by the proposal, but a considerable revenue was expected
from scientific books, high-brow novels and Socialistic publications. Well, the Première, as
I say, was a prey to sad reflections, when suddenly the chur-chur of a taxi--"

"Aren't you thinking of night-jars?" I said.

"Possibly I am," he admitted; "it may have been a chug-chug. Anyway, it threw a wide arc of
light into the gloom and stopped at the door of No. 10. A few moments later the door of the
boudoir was flung open and the Chancellor of the Exchequer was announced."

"What did she want?"

"She was a he this time, and had come to announce the inevitable--the very thing that the Première
was thinking about and fearing. 'We must have the Bachelor Tax,'" he said.

"Now, the Bachelor Tax had been tried some twenty years before, but had failed, partly owing
to the number of passive resisters who had had to be forcibly fed, and partly owing to the
number of men who had shown substantial proof of recurrent rejections. How were they to bring
in a reasonable and satisfactory Bill? After a long consultation, lasting several hours beyond
midnight--"

"Did the taxi go on chugging?" I asked.

"Shut up. They decided eventually that if a bachelor made a written proposal and was rejected
he was entitled to have his case tried before a jury of women, who should decide whether it
was a reasonable offer and one that should normally have been accepted. If they found that
it was, he was to be exempt from further efforts. The Bill was accordingly drafted, and carried
easily, and the sequel no doubt you have guessed. On the day after it became law the beautiful
young Première received a neatly-typed offer of marriage from Edward Oburn. They met; there
was a scene of the utmost beauty and pathos; they became engaged, and the Coalition Government
of the middle of 1950 began."

"How long did it go on?" I inquired.

"Until the day of revolution," said Charles pleasantly, refilling his foul old briar--"the
great day when Fleet Street ran with blood and the pipe-smokers put up barricades in the Strand,
and Piccadilly became a reeking shambles. Have you got a match?"

EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The chauffeur, who sprang into the vehicle as it started off, was
    injured when it collided with a lamppost. Both were removed to
    hospital.--Daily Paper.

It is hoped that when the lamp-post has recovered it may throw some light on the accident.

       *       *       *       *       *

"'In a few more fleeting years'

    The ---- will still be Earning Money for its owner when other cars have
    caused their owners to become but a memory."--Provincial Paper.

The advertiser ought not, we think, to have suppressed the names of these murderous machines.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Monday, March 1st.--Calendar note (extracted from The Wee Free Almanack): "Asquith comes in
like a lion."

Everybody wanted to see the victor of Paisley make his rentrée. The Peers' Gallery was so crowded
with his former colleagues that Lord ROTHERMERE had scarcely room for the big stick which typifies
his present attitude towards the Government. Poor Lord BEAVERBROOK was quite in the background;
but I am told that on historic occasions he always prefers, with characteristic modesty, to
be behind the scenes.

As the hero of the hour walked up the floor, escorted by Sir DONALD MACLEAN and Mr. THORNE,
his supporters did their best to give him a rousing welcome. But they were too few to produce
much effect, and a moment or two later, when Mr. LLOYD GEORGE left the Treasury Bench to greet
his old chief behind the SPEAKER'S Chair, they were compelled to hear the young bloods of the
Coalition "give a louder roar."

Finding the traditional seat of the Leader of the Opposition still in the occupation of Mr.
ADAMSON, Mr. ASQUITH bestowed himself between the Labour Leader and Mr. NEIL MACLEAN, with
whom he entered into conversation. If he was endeavouring to expound for his benefit the moral
of Paisley I am afraid he had but a poor success, for in the ensuing debate on food-control
the Member for Govan shocked Liberal hearers by declaring that "the Manchester School is dead
and there is no going back to it." In opposing the continuance of D.O.R.A. Captain ELLIOT was
again in good form. His best mot, "With the Cabinet a thing is always either sub judice or
chose jugée," will take a good deal of beating as a summary of the Ministerial method of answering
Questions.

I understand that Mr. MALLABY-DEELEY disclaims being the customer to whom the Disposals Board
sold 577,000 suits of Government clothing. He makes a point of never being over-dressed.

A suggestion that in view of the difficulty of filling diplomatic vacancies the Government
should appoint suitable women to some of these posts was declined by the PRIME MINISTER on
the ground that it was not practicable at present. I doubt if he would have had the hardihood
to make this avowal but that Lady ASTOR had been ousted from her usual seat by Mr. PEMBERTON
BILLING.

