Wednesday, May 16th.--We all want to help the new Russian Government in its difficult task,
but I doubt if Mr. SNOWDEN and his pacifist friends have contributed to that end by inviting
the House of Commons to endorse forthwith the "no annexation, no indemnities" declaration of
a section of the Revolutionaries, and by supporting their proposal in a series of speeches
which might be summed up in the words "Peace at any Price." Even the German CHANCELLOR will
not be wholly pleased, for the debate revealed that, apart from the seven or eight gentlemen
who follow the white flag of the Member for Blackburn, the House is absolutely fixed in its
determination to defeat German militarism before talking of peace.

After the searching analysis to which the hon. Member's confident statements were subjected
by Lord ROBERT CECIL and Mr. A.F. WHYTE there was nothing left of them but a trace of acid.

So far as I am aware the Member for Blackburn has never endangered the integrity of his principles
by helping his country in any way to win the War. In this respect Mr. LEES SMITH, who seconded
the motion, has a less consistent record, for he has worn khaki as an orderly of the R.A.M.C.
But in his case service abroad seems only to have confirmed his peculiar principles, for he
thinks that we ought to return the German colonies, and enable the natives to enjoy once again
the blessings of Kultur. If he ever saw the Hun while he was in France it must have been through
a pair of rose-tinted binoculars.

Thursday, May 17th.--We are all agog to know whether the PRIME MINISTER'S offer of immediate
Home Rule to twenty-six Counties of Ireland is to be blessed or banned by the Nationalists.
This is the day when Irish Questions have priority, and the House hears such important inquiries
as whether Hibernian holiday-makers will have their excursion-trains restored to them; what
became of a side of bacon captured by the police during the Easter Monday rebellion, and why
a certain magistrate should have been struck off the Commission of the Peace for a trifling
refusal to take the oath of allegiance. Are we to go without this entertainment in the future,
or will Mr. REDMOND refuse to rob Westminster of its gaiety even for the sake of College Green?

If, as I ventured to suggest last week, the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER had laid in a stock
of tobacco before the Budget he has evidently exhausted it by now, for, on his attention again
being called to the exorbitant charge of the tobacconists, he no longer pooh-poohed the matter,
but sternly declared that the situation was being closely watched.

       *       *       *       *       *

    COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

    "The Car that never fails to give anything but satisfaction to
    its owners."--Advertisement in "Indian Motor News."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MY AMERICAN COUSINS.

  Because they speak the tongue that's mine,
    Rich in the treasure that belongs
  To them as well as me, and twine
    Their heart-strings in our English songs,
  I knew they'd scorn those German threats
          And sham regrets.

  Because their country's name is scrolled
    With Liberty's; because her fate,
  Like England's own, must be unrolled
    In Freedom still, they had to hate
  The thought of bowing down before
          A Lord of War.

  And now they'll lavish in the strife
    The gold they've scorned to love too well,
  And fleets to bring the food that's life,
    And guns of death, and steel and shell;
  Defeat or triumph, stand or fall,
          They'll share their all.

  They're out for business; now's their Day;
    They took their time, but finished right;
  The heat got slowly comes to stay;
    Patient for peace means firm in fight;
  And so their country still shall be
          Land of the Free.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Remarkable scenes were witnessed at Exeter yesterday at the
    free distribution of 10,000 lbs. of potatoes in 5 lb. lots.
    Five thousand people obtained 5 lbs. each."--Sunday Paper.

This result was obtained by the forethought of the distributors, who had the potatoes laid
out on multiplication tables.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOLLS THAT DID THEIR BIT.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on?" asked Jeanne, holding out her basket towards the
first of her dolls seated in a semi-circle before her. Most of them were quite familiar with
the game, but for the sake of a new-comer Jeanne had explained that each player must place
in the basket some object the name of which ended with on, to rhyme with corbillon. She had
announced that this time the game was in aid of a cause, and that therefore it must be played
with things and not with words only.

"Qu'y met-on, Marie?" repeated Jeanne. "Rappelez-vous bien que c'est une quête à l'intention
des petites filles polonaises internées au camp de Havelberg!" What, Marie had nothing but
her chain necklace, and that did not end in on? No, but the links of the chain did, argued
Jeanne. "Donne des chaînons!" she prompted in a whisper. "J'y mets des chaînons," said Marie
in Jeanne's thinnest voice, and the necklace found its way into the basket.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on? À vous, Marthe. Ô," exclaimed Jeanne, "tu y mets
ton chignon? Eh bien, tu sais, n'est-ce pas, bêta, qu'il faut que tu t'y mettes avec!" and
into the basket she went after a lingering caress from Jeanne.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on?" It was the turn now of Yvonne in her bed. "Comment,"
said Jeanne, affecting indignation, "si tu n'étais pas si frileuse tu donnerais ton édredon?"
And what about the little poupées polonaises internées, snatched from their beds and carried
off without any bedclothes at all, let alone an eiderdown! Presently, "J'y mets mon édredon,"
Yvonne was understood to say, and "Sage!" approved Jeanne.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on? Jacques, mon pauvre ami, tu n'as pas de chance,
hein?" There was no help for it; it was the only thing he had that rhymed. "Imagine la joie
des petites polonaises internées!" she urged, taking the necessary action. "J'y mets mon pantalon,"
piped a disconsolate little thread of voice.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on? A vous, Mikadesse!" A beam of pleasure, succeeded
by a falling of the countenance, then a look of decision, ended in a "Houp-là!" as the Japanese
doll descended into the basket, and was made to say, "J'y mets une poupée du Japon!" After
all she was an ally of the little polonaises.

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on? Allons, les jumeaux! à vous!" Jeanne thought the
twins were really in a plight and that she would have to help them out with a gift, but, quick
as thought, Castor seized Pollux, saying, "J'y mets mon compagnon!" and Pollux, divining his
intention, grasped Castor, declaring excitedly, "Et moi aussi, j'y mets mon compagnon" And
into the basket they leapt together. "Ils s'entêtent à rester inséparables," sighed Jeanne;
"c'est bien."

"Je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on?" Adélaïde never had possessed anything worth giving
away, and yet she seemed to be suggesting that the contents of the basket did not look very
imposing so far, and would hardly be enough to go round among so many little Poles, so Jeanne
came to the rescue with gifts of toys until "J'y mets ma contribution!" came jubilantly forth
in a voice that forgot to be Adélaïde's.

All had now contributed. Yet Jeanne had a feeling that somehow it was not the end of the game.
She pondered gravely for a few moments, then, placing herself solemnly before the mirror, she
addressed herself:--

"Jeanne, je vous tends mon corbillon: qu'y met-on?" After a few seconds she began to see what
she ought to do.

"Qu'y mets-tu, Jeanne?" It would be rather hard, but she must do it.

Sitting down and turning up the skirt of her frock, she took each of the contributors, kissed
and caressed them, and placed them in her lap. Adélaïde only did she except, explaining to
the others, "Oui, mes chéris, je garde Adélaïde, car savez-vous bien, c'est elle qui me donne
des idées; je prends toujours conseil avec elle. Alors, n'est ce pas?" Then, carrying the dolls
in her petticoat, she solemnly undid the button, let it slip down with the dolls inside, and
placed it resolutely in the basket, saying: "J'y mets mon jupon!"

What was Adélaïde saying? One must give cheerfully and not regret the gift? Surtout il ne faut
pas verser une larme!

So, hugging her doll, Jeanne returned to the mirror and added, smiling, "Avec sa-tis-fac-ti-on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Prospects in English Literature.
         III.--Looking Backward."--The Athenæum.

We trust this is only preliminary to a further advance.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Shepherds in Scotland are feeding lambs with whisky and
    hot milk. Many titled landed proprietors are acting as
    shepherds."--Daily News.

Surely our Radical contemporary does not mean to suggest--

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIRIES.

  There are fairies at the bottom of our garden!
    It's not so very, very far away;
  You pass the gardener's shed and you just keep straight ahead;
    I do so hope they've really come to stay.
  There's a little wood, with moss in it and beetles,
    And a little stream that quietly runs through;
  You wouldn't think they'd dare to come merrymaking there--
            Well, they do.

  There are fairies at the bottom of our garden!
    They often have a dance on summer nights;
  The butterflies and bees make a lovely little breeze,
    And the rabbits stand about and hold the lights.
  Did you know that they could sit upon the moonbeams
    And pick a little star to make a fan,
  And dance away up there in the middle of the air?
            Well, they can.

  There are fairies at the bottom of our garden!
    You cannot think how beautiful they are;
  They all stand up and sing when the Fairy Queen and King
    Come gently floating down upon their car.
  The King is very proud and very handsome;
    The Queen--now can you guess who that could be
  (She's a little girl all day, but at night she steals away)?--
            Well--it's ME!

       *       *       *       *       *
    "Young Lady Wanted, for few months, as Companion-Help
    (seaside); fare paid and 6d. week pocket-money; or would
    train Girl as Housemaid, same terms."--Provincial Paper.

Such extravagance in war-time ought to be checked.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "SHADY GERMAN TRICK.

    "In the village of Boisleux-au-Mout the Germans utilised part
    of the cemetery to bury their own dead, but before doing so
    deliberately hewed down every tree growing on the side of the
    ground where the French graves lie."--Daily Paper.

Is "shady" quite the right word for this outrage?

       *       *       *       *       *

PEAS AND PLEDGES.

"Has anything special," I said, "been happening during my absence?"

"We are up to our chins in work," said Francesca.

"But is it real work?"

"Of course it is. We've formed a General Committee, of which everybody's a member, including
you, and we've formed an Executive Committee, of which there are about a dozen members. And
then there are some Sub-Committees."

"Yes, I know. The Executive Committee thinks it's going to do all the work, but it's got to
report to the General Committee, and it it'll be a great piece of luck if the General Committee
doesn't insist on asserting itself by upsetting all the decisions of the Executive Committee."

"Oh, but our General Committee isn't going to be like that at all. There won't be any petty
jealousy about our General Committee. Besides, the Executive Committee has power to act, and
it doesn't need to report till the Annual Meeting of the General Committee, which is to be
held a year from now. When that time comes lots of things will have happened."

"That," I said, "is one of the truest things you've ever said. Even the War may be over by
that time."

"But if it isn't we shall all be living on swedes or pea-soup, or rice-bread or all three together;
and we shall have a food controller in every village, and our Committees won't be wanted."

"I beg your pardon; they'll be more wanted than ever to keep the controller straight and act
as a buffer between him and the population."

"But they won't know they're a buffer, and they won't like it when some tactless person tells
them. Anyhow, that's a long way off, and in the meantime we've got the land."

"Who've got what land?"

"Our Committee," said Francesca, "have got two acres of land from Mr. Carberry, and we're going
to grow a crop of peas on it so that everybody may have pea-soup in case of a pinch."

"But what about the peas?" I said, "Have you made sure of those?"

"We had a good deal of trouble about them, but we've got a firm promise of six bushels."

"Capital! But are you quite sure you know how to bring the land and the peas together?"

"Well, I'm not so much of an expert as I should like to be, but Mr. Bolton 's a practical farmer,
and he's going to do all he can for us."

"Will he plough it?"

"It's been ploughed twice, so he's undertaken to harrow it and scarify it--doesn't it sound
awful?--and then something else is going to happen to it, but I forget what it's called."

"Wouldn't it be a good thing, at some stage or other, to plant the peas?"

"Yes, it would; but you can't do it as simply as all that, can you? Isn't there something highly
agricultural that you must do first?"

"I should chuck 'em in and chance it."

"A nice farmer you'd make," she said scornfully. "I'm remembering it now. It's got something
to do with drills."

"Like the Volunteers?"

"No, not a bit like the Volunteers."

"Well, then, like potatoes."

"Yes, more like potatoes, except that they're peas in this case."

"How true," I said.

"Yes. And don't forget that while you were away we formed a League of Honour in the village
and bound ourselves to observe the FOOD CONTROLLER'S rations."

"Am I a member?"

"Yes, we thought you'd like to be one, so I gave your name in."

"I think a man must pledge his own honour. He can't have it done for him."

"There's no public ceremony. You can just pledge yourself in your mind, and then put a pledge
card in one of the windows."

"I'll have tea first," I said, "and then I'll choose the window, and then I'll pledge myself
in my mind."

"No, you can do the pledging now."

"I've done it, while you were talking."

"And after all it's only the old rations according to Lord DEVONPORT, and we've been working
under them for some time now."

"So we have," I said; "but of course the card in the window makes all the difference."

R.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

]

       *       *       *       *       *

    OUR MODEST CONTEMPORARIES.

    "Had it been intended to make any new pronouncement of
    importance the Berlin Government would have taken steps to
    circulate the speech by wireless in time for publication in
    'The Star' yesterday evening."--The Star.

It is possible that Dr. BETHMANN-HOLLWEG was misled by our contemporary's habit of publishing
its "7.0 Edition" at 4.30.

       *       *       *       *       *

From an obituary notice:--

    "He had studied Eastern religions, and claimed to have been
    initiated as a llama of Tibet."--Daily Mail.

Or should it be the Grand Lama of Peru?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The----Food Economy Committee were astounded yesterday at
    the secretary's report of a collier's family of six persons
    who consumed twenty half-quartern loaves in one week,
    averaging twenty pounds of bread per person."--Sunday
    Chronicle.

It is not stated whether the astonishment was caused by the family's appetite or the secretary's
arithmetic.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(By Mr. Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks.)

In the list of heroic young soldier-authors whose gifts the War has revealed to us only to
snatch them away, the name of DONALD HANKEY already holds an honoured place. It will, therefore,
be good news to the many admirers of A Student in Arms that a further selection of these heartening
and fine-spirited papers has been prepared under the title of A Student in Arms--Second Series
(MELROSE). The thousands who already know and admire Lieut. HANKEY'S work will need no introduction
to this, which exhibits all the qualities of courage and sympathy that have given the former
book a world-wide popularity. They, and others, will however welcome the occasion afforded
here of learning something about the life and personality of the writer, which they will do
both from the short preface contributed by one whose identity is hardly disguised under the
initials "H.M.A.H.," and from a couple of papers, autobiographical, that end the volume. Rugbieans
especially will be interested to read DONALD HANKEY'S recollections of his school-days, with
their tribute to the house-master affectionately known to so many generations as "Jackey."
A book, in short, that will add to the admiration and regret with which its author is spoken
of in three continents.

       *       *       *       *       *

He Looked in My Window (CHATTO AND WINDUS), by ROBERT HALIFAX, gives the adventures of Ruth
Shadd, decentest of dwellers in a meanish street, during her determined hunt for a husband.
It would have been easy to make all this unlovely in its frankness, but the author very skilfully
(and, I think, very sincerely) avoids this. Ruth is a fine girl, with character and candour,
those too rare assets, and having pursued, and found wanting, Bert, the swanker, who hasn't
the courage for matrimony; the polite and fatuously prudent Archie, and Joe, the vegetarian,
who had such exalted faith in malt, she wins a deserved happiness with someone that she had
never even thought of pursuing. Mr. HALIFAX gives me an impression of almost cinematographic
and gramophonic exactness in his portraiture. George Shadd, Ruth's father, who worked in the
gasworks and was one of the very best, delighted me particularly, with his pathetic little
garden, his battle with the slugs and black-fly, and his fine patience with Mrs. Shadd, who
put her washing before his fire and her props among his choicest seedlings--a difficult woman
indeed. The author writes with humour and sympathy; and that is the way to write of this brave
if narrow life. It is the first time I have looked in Mr. HALIFAX'S window. I shall take steps
to do so again. 'Tis a nice clean window.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not even the most confirmed Gallio can avoid caring for Arthur Stanton--A Memoir, by the Rt.
Hon. G.W.E. RUSSELL (LONGMANS), when he has once dipped his mind into the book. It is the record
of a singularly beautiful and beneficent life, lived to the very utmost in the service of God
and man, and ruled by a simple and direct religion which constantly forced practice up to the
exalted level of precept. Judged by merely worldly standards of achievement, ARTHUR STANTON'S
life could not be considered a success. He began as curate of St. Alban's, Holborn, and as
curate of St. Alban's he ended after many years of enthusiastic devotion to humanity. He was
foiled and thwarted by the great ones of the Church, inhibited in one place, suspended in another,
and frequently doomed to find a Bishop or a Chaplain-General set, like a lion, across his path.
But nothing could avail to stop him where he found a soul that could be saved or misery that
could be relieved. His congregation, drawn from the slums of Holborn, would have died for him
to a man, for they realised with how great an ardour his life was spent in order that he might
help them. His faith was not a mystery kept apart for special occasions, but a daily and hourly
influence vivifying his words and directing his actions. And no man could have enjoyed himself
more than this true saint and interpreter of God to man. His religion was not one of gloom
and foreboding, but a cheerful and delightful habit of mind and soul. Tantum religio potuit
suadere bonorum. Mr. RUSSELL has done his work with great skill and perfect sympathy, and has
produced a book that does honour to himself and to the beloved friend whom it is his privilege
to commemorate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The many readers of Punch who took a close interest in ALEC JOHNSTON'S letters written "At
the Back of the Front" and "At the Front" will be glad to have them in collected form. The
memory of his gallant end--he was killed in action after the brilliant capture of a salient
near Ypres, at the head of his company of Shropshires--is fresh in all our hearts. A preface
to At the Front (CONSTABLE) contains an appreciation of his high character and soldierly qualities
by his friend and fellow-officer, Captain INGRAM, R.A.M.C., D.S.O., M.C., who a few weeks later
was himself killed. It is a fine tribute paid by one true soldier to another. These letters
of ALEC JOHNSTON, as their editor reminds us, "were composed in the brief interludes snatched
from hard fighting and hard fatigues.

       *       *       *       *       *

It must, I should think, be exceedingly difficult to find a new title in these days for a volume
of reminiscences. Mr. RAYMOND BLATHWAYT seems to have solved the problem happily enough by
calling his contribution to the rapidly-increasing library of recollections, Through Life and
Round the World (ALLEN). One way and another, first as a curate (rightly termed by the publishers
"rather unconventional"), later as journalist, Mr. BLATHWAYT has contrived to use a pair of
remarkably open eyes with excellent effect. The result is this fat volume, whose contents,
if honesty constrains me to call the most of them gossip, are at least generally entertaining
and never ill-natured. Needless to say, Mr. BLATHWAYT, like the elder Capulet, can "tell a
tale such as will please." For myself, out of a goodly store, I should select for first honours
a repartee, new to me, of Sir HERBERT TREE (forgive this dropping into rhyme!). It tells of
a boastful old-time actor, vaunting his triumphs as Hamlet, when "the audience took fifteen
minutes leaving the theatre." "Was ha lame?" If our only HERBERT did not in fact make this
reply, I can only hope that he will at once hasten home and do so. But while we are upon Mr.
BLATHWAYT'S dramatic recollections, I must respectfully traverse his dictum that some of the
acting at the local pageants of a few years back "surpassed the very best I have seen upon
the stage." As one who took a personal part in many of those well-meant revivals, and dates
a relaxed throat from the effort of vociferating history, up-wind, towards a stand full of
ear-straining auditors, I bow but remain unconvinced.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although the literary style of Mr. JULIUS M. PRICE, of The Illustrated London News, is too
breezy for my taste, I am glad to have read his Six Months on the Italian Front (CHAPMAN AND
HALL). Possibly he under-estimates our appreciation of Italy's share in the War's burden, but
his account of the conditions prevailing upon the Italian front, and of the courage and skill
with which they have been overcome, deserves our undiluted approval. It is difficult to believe
that anyone who is not at least a member of the Alpine Club can dimly realise the engineering
feats which the Italian soldiers have performed. Mr. PRICE has been given many opportunities
of observation, and where none was given to him he has contrived to make them for himself.
And the result is a book full of incident and excitement. I hope that he will pardon me when
I add that my sense of gratitude would have been greater if, in addition to the photograph
of himself--or even instead of it--he had given us a map. For the rest his illustrations are
excellent.

       *       *       *       *       *

To MARTIN SWAYNE, officer in the R.A.M.C., on his lawful occasions or in the intervals of swatting
flies In Mesopotamia (HODDER AND STOUGHTON), there came some thoughts pleasant and bitter,
and you can see that he has selected the pleasant and cut out the others, partly because of
his loyalty and humour, and partly, no doubt, in deference to the prejudices of censorship.
And he writes his selection of printable remarks in a very agreeable and not undistinguished
idiom, pointing the narrative with reflections sane and sage enough. He has also made some
water-colour notes (here reproduced in colour) of things seen; not remarkable, but adequate
to convey an impression. We have all lamented the confusions (shall we call them?) of the medical
service, and the trials of our troops in that blessed region entered through Kurna, the Gate
of the Garden of Eden, in the early days of the Mesopotamian adventure. The author reports
a radical improvement, and if Eden isn't exactly the name you'd give to this pest-ridden country
at least the fighting men are now backed by the devotion and competence of the healing men,
and all goes well for both. To the bulldog might well be added the retriever as our national
emblem. We are some retrievers.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article headed "Outlook for Oil":--

    "It is urged in commercial circles that the Government should
    secure men with laboratory experience, plus a complete
    absence of practical knowledge, to report on shale
    deposits."--Australian Paper.

We thought it was only in the Old Country that Governments had any use for that sort of man.