But the discovery of one of the most important and interesting vestiges of the Gallo-Roman
city was reserved for the latter part of the year 1869, when, in laying out the Rue Monge,
on the eastern slopes of Mont Sainte-Geneviève, there was revealed the ancient amphitheatre,
with which no Roman city of importance could dispense. Although these important vestiges lay
only some twelve mètres below the surface, and though at least two passages in mediæval chronicles
were known which alluded to the locality, this contribution to the history of the city was
delayed to this late date. Alexandre Neckham, a professor in Paris, writing in 1180, mentions,
in the course of four verses, the vast ruins of a Roman amphitheatre, dedicated to Venus, which
was situated near the Abbey of Saint-Victor. Adrien de Valois cites a cartulary, or registry
of a monastery, dated in 1310, in which mention is made of three sections of vineyards situated
in the district known as les Areinnes. A date for the construction of this amphitheatre was
conjectured by M. Adrien de Longpérier, from the bringing together of three of the broken stones
of the edifice--selected from the sixteen bearing inscriptions now in the Musée Carnavelet
and from twelve others bearing similar inscriptions and evidently from the same source, but
which were found in 1847 in the Parvis-Notre-Dame, having been taken in later days to construct
the wall of fortification of the city. By placing three of these fragments in order, M. de
Longpérier was enabled to decipher the names of two of the Gaulish emperors who lived in the
second half of the third century of our era, from which he concluded that it was a portion
of the imperial inscription, and that the construction of the amphitheatre accordingly dated
from this period. The pride of the Parisians, however, took offence at this interpretation,
and it was considered as highly improbable that the Romans "should have delayed for more than
two centuries and a half to construct, for the use of the population of a city as important
as Lutèce had become, a monument similar to those the ruins of which have been enumerated in
more than fifty Gallo-Roman cities,--a figure which shows how much the diversions of the amphitheatre
and the theatre were relished by the Gauls." M. Gourdon de Genouillac, in his history of Paris,
decides that the structure dates from the second century.

It may be observed that, in the third century, Roman Gaul became a practically independent
State,--from A.D. 258 to 273, from Posthumus to Tetricus, its connections with Italy ceased,
and it maintained its own emperors and its own legions. This was in sympathy with the rising
spirit of nationalities, awakened throughout the empire by Septimus Severus, but in this ephemeral
empire of the Gauls the old Celtic influence had but little part. "If there took place," said
M. Camille Jullian before the Académie des Inscriptions in 1896, "as we would willingly believe,
a Celtic renaissance at the opening of the third century, it was entirely superficial, and
doubtless slightly factitious; it resembled that reaction in the life, the language, the traditions
of the provinces which the French Romanticism brought about in 1815. Like that, it in no way
changed the ideas of the nation, it had no influence upon the political and social destinies
of Gaul." With regard to the fondness of the ancient Gauls for histrionic and spectacular performances,
we may quote M. Reinach again: "The qualities and the defects of the present inhabitants of
France may all be found again among the Gaulish contemporaries of Cato and Cæsar. The warlike
humor, the facility of elocution, the curiosity--often turbulent, have remained, throughout
the centuries, the portion, more or less enviable, of the inhabitants of Gaul."

An important publication in folio by Firmin-Didot, Paris à travers les Ages, gives the following
description of the amphitheatre of Lutetia. "But few constructions are visible around the arena,
elliptic in shape and measuring fifty-four mètres on its long axis and forty-seven on the short
one. This was the space reserved for the combats of animals, for the hunts and other spectacles.
A podium, or enclosing wall, surrounded this arena in its entire circuit, and the thickness
of this wall was such that it resisted the thrust of the sides of the Mount Lucotitius, on
the eastern slopes of which the edifice was constructed. The places arranged for the spectators
of the games, around the arena, were evidently placed, on the west, on the slope of Mount Lucotitius,
where have been found walls converging toward the centre of the structure to support the tiers
of seats running in the contrary direction. The benches may have been supported by constructions
which have now disappeared; the various fragments of architecture discovered in the excavations
must have formed part of the decoration of the edifice, as well as the stones that were employed
in the military wall of fortification of Lutetia during the later period of decline."

The discovery of these ruins caused much excitement among the savants of Paris at the time.
The Société de Numismatique visited the excavations in a body, several archæological and antiquarian
associations united in drawing up a paper, which was presented to the Emperor, advocating the
preservation of this "antique theatre of the popular festivals of the Gauls, the arena in which
had perished for liberty of conscience the ancestors of the French nation, the field in which
sleep the martyrs of Lutèce." A petition was likewise addressed to the Chamber of Deputies;
Napoleon III visited the locality in person; but the Municipal Council hesitated before the
expenditure of 300,000 francs for this purpose, and the ground was actually purchased by the
Compagnie Générale des Omnibus.

This interesting excavation, but little known even to the Parisians, has now been transformed
into a public garden, in the quarter between the Panthéon and the Jardin des Plantes, and is
well worth visiting. The ancient Mont Lucotitius still heaves itself under the modern Parisian
pavement, and the grades frequently become so steep that they have to be abandoned, and terraces
and retaining-walls substituted. Although much less than a half of the oval of the original
arena has been uncovered, the explorations have reduced the houses on the Rue Monge to but
little more than tall façades. From under their rear walls emerge the amphitheatre and some
of the curving rows of seats in stone, the latter much restored. In the walls of the arena
are two rectangular, barred entrances, and one lower, arched one, from which we may imagine
the gladiators or the wild beasts emerging. The floor of the arena is left in a roughly gravelled
condition; at present, nothing more formidable is to be encountered there than three very little
French boys making mud-pies in the puddle formed by last night's rain. A fourth, still smaller,
is at some distance, absorbed in some dry engineering of his own at the foot of the old wall.
Seated in the steep little green park which rises above the terraced seats, crowned with trees
and shrubberies, and vocal with a prodigious twittering of birds, are three or four idle, bare-headed
young women in "shirt-waists," one with a lover, and an old gentleman with a red ribbon reading
his morning newspaper. The traveller can place himself on one of the benches in this pleasant
little greenery, look down on the infantile engineers below, and make appropriate reflections.

A still more important architectural feature of the ancient city was the great aqueduct which
supplied the baths of the palace on the river, its fountains and those of the populous quarter
around it. The waters of three or four small streams to the south of the capital were united
and conveyed in a channel, lined with cement, 19,100 mètres in length, which traversed the
slopes of the hills on the eastern side of the Bièvre, and remains of which have been found
at various points. To cross the valley and the stream, an aqueduct was constructed on arches
at the locality which took the name of Arcueil, and where some of the masonry is still preserved
in modern construction, "this aqueduct being some four hundred mètres long and fifty (?) high."
It is computed that a supply of twenty-four cubic mètres of water was furnished every twenty-four
hours. Remains of other and smaller aqueducts have been discovered at various points in the
city. At Passy, surrounding the present Trocadéro, there were springs of mineral waters, which
were conveyed to the city by terra-cotta pipes, passing along the banks of the Seine. In 1781,
in the gardens of the Palais-Royal, were discovered the remains of great basins which are supposed
to have been the piscines of the hygienic baths. Remains of Roman aqueducts have been found
at various other localities in France, at Nîmes, at Lyons, at Metz, etc., and that over the
Gard is still standing in part.

Among the bridges constructed by the Gauls, Cæsar mentions that of Melun on the Seine; one
on the Allier, near Vichy; that of Genabum (Orléans), and that of Lutetia, over the larger
arm of the Seine, on the site of the present Pont Notre-Dame. Of that over the Allier and of
the Parisian one, some of the ancient piles have been found in the bed of the rivers.

Remains of the ancient wall of fortification of the capital have also been brought to light,
at various localities and at different dates. The excavations in the Parvis-Notre-Dame in 1847
discovered a section of the Roman wall twenty-six mètres in length, as well as the substructure
of the porch and the front portion of the nave of the original basilica, constructed by Childebert
and dedicated to the Virgin. These latter foundations, some thirty-two mètres in front of the
present cathedral, demonstrate by their position, and by the probable width of the primitive
edifice in proportion to its length, that they were constructed to the west and inside of the
enclosing wall of the city, a portion of which had been found under the choir of the cathedral.
The basilica constructed by the son of Clovis probably rose on the site of the altars consecrated
to the Roman or Gaulish gods, Jupiter, Vulcan, Esus, and others, and which, before the construction
of the city wall, were visible from all sides. The enclosing wall, on the contrary, fenced
in the basilica, since it was necessary to protect this part of the city, as well as all others.
The somewhat unimposing aspect of Notre-Dame, which was founded in 1163, may be ascribed in
part to the raising of the level of all the surrounding soil, for, as the histories tell us,
so late as 1748, it was reached only by ascending a flight of thirteen steps, whereas now it
is on the ordinary street-level.

This wall of defence was not commenced till about 406, when the barbarians began to invade
Gaul, and was apparently constructed in great haste, if we may judge by the manner in which
materials were borrowed from surrounding buildings of all kinds. It is described as being something
over three and a half mètres in thickness at its base, which was constructed in rough stone,
frequently of small size, and sloping to a height of two mètres. On this was erected a wall
of dressed stones, each successive layer set back, like a step, so that at the top it was only
some two mètres in width. It might be thought that this manner of building offered considerable
facilities to an escalading enemy.

On the largest stone of those discovered in 1711 under the choir of Notre-Dame was deciphered
an inscription which recorded the erection of this altar to Jupiter, "very great, very beneficent,"
in the reign of Tiberius Cæsar, by the corporation of nautæ, or mariners, apparently the most
powerful in the city, and the prows of the ships at the foot of the arches in the ancient palace
of Thermes are supposed to have been connected with the same guild, though this architectural
ornament is by no means uncommon in ancient art. It is from these Nautæ Parisiaci that the
modern city derives its arms,--a vessel with distended sails. (If any doubting tourist inquire
concerning the maritime commerce of Paris, he will be proudly referred to the barges which
may be seen at all the quais, and, even more, to the little steamers from London which contrive
to get under the bridges.) In some of the modern records this ancient corporation is given
great importance--with many sans doutes and il paraîts--in the history of the city, both before
and during the sway of the Romans. Cæsar found it "fully organized," though it was founded
on the Roman corporation of the Nautæ Tyberis, navigators of the Tiber, composed of senators,
magistrates, and knights, which transported grain and other merchandise from the port of Ostia
to the capital; and it was the original of the later maison de la marchandise de l'eau, de
l'hôtel de Ville et du conseil municipal of Paris. The activity of the Lutetian shippers and
navigators covered the territory bathed by the Seine, the Marne, and the Oise, all of them
quite navigable. The ruins of the Gallo-Roman buildings discovered in the Cité in 1844, at
the opening of the Rue de Constantine, were the remains of a market or forum for the sale of
provisions; and the corporation had, near the port, an office or bureau for the regulation
of this river commerce. Opposite the port, on the northern side of the Seine, they controlled
also another point of landing, at the Grève, where, later, was established the prévôté de l'eau,
which developed into the Parisian municipality. The port on the Cité, on the larger arm of
the Seine, received in the Middle Ages the name of Saint Landri, this bishop having had an
oratory, and perhaps his residence, in the neighborhood. Under the Later Empire, in the reign
of Posthumus, the northern suburb having increased in size and importance, a market was placed
at the Champeaux, on the site of the present Halles Centrales, and the port of the Grève became,
as it has remained ever since, a point of landing for merchandise coming from the upper Seine.
The port on the southern side of the river, near the great road from Genabum, was established
on the site of the mediæval Quai de la Tournelle, the great tower which replaced that of the
southern wall of fortification of the city built by Philippe-Auguste. This quai still serves
at the present day as a landing-place for the barges.

In the reigns of Louis the Fat and Louis VII, the successors of the Nautæ Parisiaci were known
as mercatores aquæ parisiaci, and they were the origin of the municipal body charged with the
policing of the river navigation and commerce. Later in the Middle Ages, this small species
of Hanseatic League had a commercial station at Marsons-sur-Seine, and its maritime jurisdiction
extended as far as the city of Mantes, situated on the western limits of the territory of the
Parisii. The sources of the Seine, near the farm of the Vergerots in the commune of Saint-Germain-la-Feuille,
were held in great veneration in Gallo-Roman times, and a temple, the remains of which have
been found, was erected in their honor. In 1867 the Municipal Council of Paris set up a monument
"to the sources of the river which has given its name to the department of the Seine, and to
which Paris owes its ancient prosperity."

The overrunning of Gaul by the barbarians, the latest historians tell us, did not present the
imposing spectacle of a great invasion in which armed hosts of valiant and robust warriors
trod down the effeminate and corrupted civilization of the Romans, pillaged and ravaged the
seats of refinement and luxury in city and country, slew and carried into captivity without
respect for age or sex.

Long before the invasions of the fifth century the Germans had been established in the empire,
both as colonists and as soldiers. The legions composed of Germans are said to have been even
more amenable to discipline than the Roman ones. The first who established themselves in Gaul
were the Visigoths and the Burgundians; the former, flying before the Huns, appeared as suppliants
on the frontiers of the empire in the closing years of the fourth century. Ataulf (Ataulphus),
the successor of the imperial puppet Attalus, set up by the conquering Alaric, came into Gaul
early in the fifth century, became the ally of the Emperor Honorius, married his sister Placida,
and marched to the conquest of Spain. The Visigoths, being thus installed in Gaul, admitted
the Burgondes (Burgundii) in a neighborly manner; we are even told that they considered themselves
as honored by the friendship of the Romans, and pretended that they had a common origin. Their
kings proclaimed themselves lieutenants of the emperors, and fed their vanity by the Roman
titles with which they invested themselves. The historian Orosius says the Burgundii were a
quiet people, with gentle manners, respecting the civil authorities, and living in friendly
relations with the Gauls. Both Visigoths and Burgundii promptly abandoned their national religions
and traditions and adopted Christianity, but they followed the Aryan sect,--"unfortunately,"
says Duruy. Some modern French historians, on the contrary, attribute the greatness of France
to this circumstance. The Gallo-Romans were orthodox.

When the Huns, driving the Germans before them or passing over their bodies, appeared on the
frontiers of Gaul in the year 451, they were met by an army commanded by a Roman, Aëtius, but
composed of Romans, Burgundii, Visigoths, Franks, and Saxons, which defeated them at the famous
battle of the champs catalauniques, over the locality of which the historians are still disputing.
When the Franks appeared, at the end of the fifth century, the army of Clovis contained a large
number of Romans, and from the time of the sons of Clotaire, the entire population, without
distinction of race, was called upon to do military duty. It is even said that it was only
the Gallo-Roman chiefs of the armies who acquired military renown. Notwithstanding all this,
there are still historians of the present day who speak of "the catastrophe of 406 breaking
abruptly the bond which attached the barbarians to the Empire of the West." Some of these latter
are disposed to see in Clovis, after his conversion, the founder of modern political society,
a creator of a nationality, a maker of civilization,--titles which are freely denied him by
others. His success was owing, it is said, not to his victories, but to his conversion. He
was baptized by the Bishop of Reims, Remi, on Christmas Day, 496. "From that date, he had the
alliance of the bishops throughout all Gaul against the Visigoths and the Burgondes, and his
reign was assured."

This conversion, it is said, had been earnestly desired by his wife Clotilde, a niece of Gondebaud,
King of the Burgondes, who had stipulated with her royal spouse that her first-born should
be "consecrated to Christ by baptism." It also contributed greatly to his final establishment
in Paris, a capital which he had long coveted and from which his predatory attacks had been
constantly turned aside by the efforts of a virgin, Sainte-Geneviève, whom the Parisians still
honor as their patron saint. The central position of this city, between the Rhine and the Loire,
enabled him to keep a watchful eye upon Brittany, Aquitaine, the Burgondes, and the Frankish
tribes of Belgium.

At his death, his kingdom was divided among his four sons, Paris, with Poitiers, Périgueux,
Saintes, and Bordeaux, falling to the lot of Childebert. From the confused records of these
barbaric times the names of two women issue, and have remained permanently engraven upon the
tablets of history,--one of them as that of a personification of Christian and feminine virtues
rare at any age and doubly so in these dark ages, and the other that of a monstrous queen whose
crimes have made her immortal. Radegonde was a daughter of Bertaire, King of Thuringe, killed
by his brother Hermanfried at the instigation of the wife of the latter; the murderer invited
Thierry, King of Metz, and Clotaire, King of Soissons, sons of Clovis, to invade the kingdom,
and in the partition of the booty, Radegonde fell to the share of Clotaire. Charmed by her
original beauty, the king had her educated with unusual care, and, later, married her, but
the queen sought only to forget her earthly dignities in ministering to the poor, in pious
meditation, and in long conversations upon the Scriptures with some learned prelate. "She is
a nun," said Clotaire, "and not a queen;" and he ended by killing her last surviving brother.
Whereupon she fled to Noyon and implored Saint Médard at the altar to give her the protection
of the Church; Clotaire threatened and protested, but finally permitted her to found a church
and a convent at Poitiers, in which she immured herself till her death, in 587,--thirty-seven
years. "During this long seclusion she constantly mingled with good works and with the austerity
of religious exercises the culture of letters; constantly also did she guard her cherished
traditions of the domestic hearth, and we find her living again in the awkward verses of the
greatest poet of that time, Fortunatus, who had himself ordained priest that he might never
be constrained to leave her."

At the death of Clotaire, the monarchy was again divided into four kingdoms, those of Paris,
Soissons, Metz, and Burgundy,--soon reduced to three by the death of Charibert, King of Paris.
The Burgondes were under the sway of Gontran, the Austrasien and Eastern Franks under Sigebert,
and the mingled population of Franks and Gallo-Romans which were called Neustriens, or the
Westerners, under Chilpéric. Aquitaine was divided between the three, and Paris was already
of so much importance that none of them was willing to yield her to the others, and it was
agreed that no one should enter the city without the consent of the other two. The royal authority
was weaker in Austrasie, now Belgium and Lorraine, the petty chiefs stronger, and the manners
and customs more Germanic and barbaric; in Neustrie, now Ile-de-France, Normandy, etc., there
were more ancient cities, mere remnants of the Roman civilization and vestiges of imperial
administration. To the political rivalry to which this disparity gave rise was added the personal
animosity of the two queens, Frédégonde and Brunehaut.

While Sigebert was fighting the Avars, barbarians from Asia, on the eastern frontier, his two
brothers amused themselves by pillaging his western provinces. Chilpéric had taken, for a most
unwilling bride, a younger sister of Brunehaut, Galswinthe, daughter of a king of the Visigoths,
notwithstanding the fierce jealousy of his mistress, or his first wife, Frédégonde; her empire
was, however, soon regained, and Galswinthe was strangled in her sleep. Brunehaut incited her
husband, Sigebert, to a war of vengeance; Paris was taken, and Chilpéric only saved from ruin
by his wife, who despatched two assassins against the King of the Neustriens. The rights of
inheritance of her son, Clotaire, were impaired by the existence of two sons of Chilpéric by
a former marriage. One of them, Mérovée, imprudently married the widowed Brunehaut, and his
step-mother sent him to rejoin Sigebert. The Bishop of Rouen, Prétextat, who had already narrowly
escaped with his life, in Paris, from the terrible queen, had blessed this marriage; he was
killed on the steps of the altar while celebrating mass. Clovis, the brother of Mérovée, followed;
then one of his sisters, and Audovère, the mother. The king left Paris for Chelles one afternoon,
for the chase; he had previously entered his wife's apartment while she was occupied with her
toilette and struck her playfully on the shoulder with a light wand,--the queen mistook him
for another, and answered, without turning round: "Tout beau! Landry," and other words of great
familiarity. Then she perceived her error, and the king went out without a word; as he dismounted,
on his return, some one slipped a knife into his heart, "and no one thought it worth while
to run after the murderer."

Charibert, the short-lived king of Paris, had in his royal palace a serf named Leudaste, who,
when a fellow-servant, Markowefe, attracted the monarch's favor and was made queen, contrived
to ingratiate himself with her to such an extent that he was made grand equerry and, later,
Comte de Tours. In his administration he proved himself capable of every outrage; but the death
of Charibert compelled him to seek refuge with Chilpéric, and he endeavored to win Frédégonde's
favor as he had Markowefe's. When Tours fell into the hands of Chilpéric, in 574, Leudaste
was re-established in his office and resumed his old practices; two years later, upon a petition
addressed to the king by the bishop, Saint Grégoire de Tours, he was dismissed. Thereupon he
hatched a plot against the bishop and against the queen who had not interposed to save him;
he declared to the king that the former had conspired to deliver Tours to the King of Austrasie,
and that the queen had done him an even greater wrong, and he offered to produce witnesses.
But his case fell to the ground; the king, threatened with excommunication by the clergy for
bringing false charges against the revered prelate, threw all the responsibility upon Leudaste,
and that individual, diligently sought for, had prudently disappeared.

He was accordingly solemnly excommunicated and declared anathema "from the crown of his head
to the sole of his feet." After some two years passed in pillage and debauchery at the head
of an organized band of brigands in the domains of Gontran, he obtained permission to return
to Tours, and had the audacity to come and seek his pardon at the court of Neustrie. Chilpéric
tolerated his presence, but advised him to avoid the queen. As the sovereigns were one day
attending mass in the basilica of Paris, Leudaste entered boldly, traversed the crowd, and
knelt at the feet of Frédégonde, imploring her forgiveness. The king had him expelled from
the church, but, instead of taking warning, he lingered in the shops around the market-place
in the Cité, selecting jewels and rich stuffs with which to propitiate the queen; when she
issued from the church and saw him, she despatched her guards to arrest him; one of them was
wounded, and another gave him a sword-cut over the head; as he fled across the Petit-Pont,
he fell and broke his leg. The manner and quality of a torture that should be appropriate for
him were carefully discussed by the royal pair; he was tended by eminent physicians that he
might be duly strengthened for it; but when Frédégonde learned that gangrene had appeared in
his wounds, she had him dragged from his bed, stretched on the pavement with his neck on a
great iron bar, and his head crushed by another heavy bar in the hands of the executioner.

After the murder of Chilpéric, the people began to murmur, and the gentle King Gontran, according
to Saint Grégoire of Tours, "in order to put an end to the evil custom of killing kings, went
one day to a church where all the people were assembled for the mass, commanded silence through
a deacon, and said: 'I conjure you, men and women who are here present, keep for me an assured
fidelity, and do not kill me as you have lately killed my brothers. Allow me to live at least
two or three years, that I may educate my young nephews, for fear that, after my death, it
should happen that you should perish with these children, since there will remain of all my
family no man strong enough to defend you.'"

Nevertheless, he had the courage to raise doubts as to the legitimacy of Frédégonde's son,
Clotaire, and to postpone his baptism till she produced three bishops and three hundred other
witnesses in his favor. Brunehaut's son, Childebert, was threatening the queen with an armed
force; he and Gontran agreed to be each the other's heir in case they died without children,
and on Gontran's death Childebert endeavored to take possession of Clotaire's domains also.
Frédégonde had him poisoned: the dreary series of civil war and family murders began again;
Clotaire II became in the end sole king of the Franks, and his mother died in her bed, "full
of years." Her rival, Brunehaut, less fortunate, betrayed by her own followers, was, by Clotaire's
orders, tied naked to the tail of a wild horse and dragged to death.

Such were the manners and customs of the Mérovingians.

There are various accounts of the two patron saints of France and Paris. It is to Grégoire
de Tours that we owe our first knowledge of Saint Denis, who, according to his statement, came
to preach Christianity in Lutetia in the year 245, with the friar Rustique and the deacon Eleuthère.
Dionysius, bishop of the Parisians, he says, full of zeal for the name of Christ, suffered
many persecutions, and finally martyrdom. Other historians assign to Saint Martin, rather than
to Saint Denis, the glory of having converted the Gauls to Christianity; some place his mission
even before the year 100, and the Abbé Hilduin confounds him with Saint Denis the Areopagite.
But, according to Grégoire, Denis, Rustique, and Eleuthère were beheaded in the year 272, by
order of the préfet Percennius, on a mountain situated near Paris, which accordingly took the
name of the Mont des Martyrs (Montmartre). The préfet had given orders to have the bodies thrown
into the Seine, but a Roman lady, named Catulla, although not a Christian herself, caused them
to be sought for in the night and piously buried in a locality known as Catolocus. Grain was
sown over the graves, and when the fury of persecution was passed, they were disinterred and
deposited in a tomb.

According to the popular legend (to which the municipal and national authority has given a
sort of official sanction by M. Bonnat's very vigorous and realistic presentation on the walls
of the Panthéon), after having had his head struck off, the saint arose on his feet, picked
it up and walked away, carrying the severed organ in his hands, to the great surprise of the
spectators. In this manner he traversed the space of a league, till he came to the spot where
his church now stands, the angels meanwhile chanting around him Gloria tibi Domine, and others
repeating three times the Alleluia. It was this unusual promenade that gave rise to the well-known
proverb that it is only the first step that costs.

In 286 the weight of the Roman yoke and the persecutions of the Christians had become so cruel
that there was a rebellion, headed by Salvianus Amandus and Lucius Pomponius Ælianus, who put
themselves at the head of the slaves and the colons of Paris and Meaux, were elevated on bucklers,
and proclaimed emperors near the site of the present Hôtel de la Ville. To them were speedily
joined the bagaudes (insurgents) of the surrounding country, and it required a very serious
effort on the part of the Roman troops, under the command of Maximien Hercule, associated with
Diocletian in the government of the empire, to restore order.

Sainte-Geneviève, the patron saint of the Parisians, also perpetuated with her legend on the
walls of the Panthéon, originally her church but now dedicated to the Grands Hommes of the
nation, was born at Nanterre, near Paris, in 422, and guarded in the fields the flocks of her
parents, Sévère and Gérontia. She is said to have known Saint Germain d'Auxerre, and to have
promised him to devote herself to the service of God; her reputation for sanctity, confirmed
by several miracles accomplished, was such that when the city was thrown into a panic by the
approach of Attila and his terrible Huns (begotten, it was asserted, in the deserts of Scythia
by the union of sorceresses and infernal spirits) her voice was listened to as that of one
qualified from on high. Nevertheless, there were certain obstinate ones who doubted her assurances
of safety; there was even question of stoning her for false counsel; but she, mounting a little
eminence, assured her fellow-citizens that, though Attila was indeed advancing, he would not
attack their city; this she stated in the name of God. That was convincing, and, indeed, the
dreaded conqueror turned his march toward Orléans, and was preparing to pillage it when he
was vanquished by Aëtius and Théodoric.

A second time she came to the rescue of the capital when it was suddenly attacked, in 476,
by Childéric at the head of his Franks. His first efforts were directed toward cutting off
all supplies by the river, and in this he was so successful that the Parisians speedily found
themselves reduced to a diet of fish and roots, with no bread at all. Geneviève was touched
by their sufferings, she embarked on a little flotilla of fishermen's boats, and succeeded
in escaping through the enemy's lines in the most marvellous manner. Her return was anxiously
awaited; for nine days there was no news of her, and the famine grew more cruel; finally, the
lookouts on the towers perceived something in the distance on the bosom of the river; it approached;
it was she, with eleven vessels filled with provisions of all kinds, of which she herself superintended
the distribution. Each one of the nine days had been marked by some miracle, in the pursuance
of her object. Monsieur Puvis de Chavannes has recently devoted a large mural painting to this
pious legend. Nevertheless, Childéric took the city, in which he dwelt but very little.

Pagan though he was, he partook of the general veneration for the saintly virgin, and could
refuse nothing to her earnest entreaties. It was during his reign that she conceived the idea
of building a church to Saint Denis on the site of his tomb; by her prayers and entreaties
she succeeded in inducing the clergy and the people of Paris to raise the necessary funds,
and she commissioned a priest by the name of Genès to construct the edifice. Clovis, son and
successor of Childéric, had no less consideration for her, but the basilica which he erected,
in connection with his wife Clotilde, and in consequence of his vow made during the war with
the Visigoths, was originally dedicated to Saint Peter and Saint Paul, and did not take the
name of Sainte-Geneviève until later. It was completed after his death by Clotilde, who caused
to be interred in it the bodies of her spouse and the saint.

The famous châsse (shrine or casket) of Sainte-Geneviève, preserved in the abbey bearing her
name which was completed in the reign of Philippe-Auguste, and enriched by successive gifts
of various sovereigns, was constantly appealed to during many centuries, taken down, solemnly
carried in procession through the streets escorted by barefooted clergy, whenever any of the
innumerable evils from the hand of God or man afflicted her good city of Paris.

THE COURT AND THE UPPER CLASSES

FROM THE OPENING OF THE MIDDLE AGES TO THE PRESENT DAY

Any one traversing the handsome, formal garden which now occupies the site of the ancient palace
of the Tuileries, official residence of the rulers of France after the red days of the Revolution,
may perceive in the midmost of the central alley, directly in the axis of the long vista between
Napoleon's two arches of triumph, that of the Carrousel and that of the Place de l'Étoile,
an important marble group by the sculptor Mercié, set up on a high pedestal. This monument
represents a vanquished and wounded French infantry soldier, with bandaged feet, sinking and
clutching for support at the skirts of a robust peasant woman wearing the typical head-dress
of Alsace-Lorraine, who snatches the real Chassepot, whitened to imitate marble (furnished
by the courtesy of the Minister of War), from his failing grasp. The whiting is wearing away
from the real Chassepot, the grime of the Parisian weather is settling into corners of eyes,
under noses, etc.; the pathos and sentiment of the work suffer accordingly, and it may be doubted
whether any pathetic, or would-be pathetic, work of sculpture is ever really effective, even
if wrought by a very clever contemporary French artist. But it is to be noticed that on this
national and historic site, in what might be called the physical centre of the nation, the
most prominent monument commemorates, not the national glories and triumphs, but a humiliating
and overwhelming national disaster. Facing the square of the Carrousel, between the arch and
the Louvre, is the much vaster monument of Gambetta in marble and bronze, with long extracts
from his orations in the evil days of '71 engraved on the tall shaft which rises behind him,--a
most ostentatious commemoration of defeat. Farther west, the great Place de la Concorde is
surrounded by handsome pavilions and balustrades, with eight stately, seated female figures
of heroic size typifying the principal cities of France. To one of these the traveller's attention
is at once directed by the funerary contributions in which she is half smothered,--draped flags,
great wreaths and disks of immortelles and black bead-work, similar to those seen on the tombs
in the cemeteries, with commemorative inscriptions: "From the Societies of the Inhabitants
of Alsace-Lorraine;" "14th July, 1898" (the day of the national fête, commemorative of the
fall of the Bastile); "France! Souviens toi!" on a huge yellow circle like a life-preserver,
and, on a circular disk at the feet of the statue:

This curiously-garnished statue is that representing the city of Strasbourg, which is no longer
a French city; and of all the others, which illustrate nothing particularly mortifying or mournful
in the national history, no proclamation whatever is made. In the centre of the handsome court-yard
of the new and imposing Hôtel de Ville, the statue selected as the central jewel of this écrin,
as it were, is Mercié's Gloria Victis, the vanquished here being, again, France. (It should
be stated, however, that if any work of contemporary sculpture is worthy of honor and of proud
municipal recognition, it is this admirable bronze.)

Many of the great public places in the city of Paris, moreover, commemorate, more or less openly,
what might be called the great stains on the history of the nation. The Place de la Concorde
is that of the Guillotine, and the Luxor obelisk is the monument of the more than twenty-eight
hundred victims beheaded by that axe. The Place de la Bastile commemorates the fortress-jail
of that name,--one of the worst of all jails and one to be discreetly forgotten; the column
of July, in the centre of this place, was erected in memory of the victims of the Revolution
of 1830. The statue of Henri IV on the Pont-Neuf marks the spot where the Grand Master of the
Templars and one of his officers were burned at the stake; on the carrefour of the Observatory,
that of Marshal Ney, the locality where that brave soldier was shot by order of the Chamber
of Peers; from the little bell-tower at the side of the church of Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois,
back of the Louvre, the signal was sounded for the Saint Bartholomew. The Châtelet and the
Conciergerie were famous prisons; the ruins of the palace on the Quai d'Orsay have been but
just removed, to make room for the new depot of the Orléans railway, after having stood since
1871 a most eloquent monument of the excesses of the Commune. It was even proposed to leave
the shattered walls of the Tuileries as a permanent record of the follies of an unbridled democracy!

This expansiveness, this frank parading of unseemly things, is supplemented by other public
demonstrations of the passion of the hour. For some years after the fall of the Commune the
national emotions found solace in stencilling in big letters on every possible wall or fronton
or pediment, public or private,--Liberté. Egalité. Fraternité. The harassed citizen of the
new republic looked up, or down, or sideways, at this official assurance of the sentiments
breathed by all, high or low, and found comfort. Only, the wits of the agitated capital--who
perceive some, but by no means all, of the opportunities which their fellow-citizens afford
them--took occasion to read this text with the punctuation-mark--(.) point--after each noble
word. Point is also the strongest of negations, so that the official declaration of faith was
reduced to nullity,--"Liberty, none; Equality, none: Fraternity, not the slightest!"

All this seems to constitute a curious national trait, and in literature, in the daily journals,
the observing traveller is again impressed with this unbosoming, which the Parisian himself
would probably brand as naïveté if he could perceive it. It flourishes perfectly side by side
with his vanity; in fact, it probably has its origin in his vanity. "The Causes of Our Defeat
in 1870," under various titles, have furnished and are still furnishing matter for interminable
publication. In municipal affairs, the unshakable conviction that Paris is, simply, the only
capital in the world does not in the least interfere with frank admissions concerning its limitations,
which the least public-spirited villager in other climes would neither believe nor admit. Here,
the journalist, the romancer, the historian, find in the most simple human demonstration, if
it take place in the capital, something peculiarly and most admirably Parisien. Balzac, e.g.,
in the Double Famille, if we remember aright, brings two of his characters together late at
night in a dusky street; the younger man thinks he recognizes the elder, but is not certain;
he therefore approaches him doubtfully "as a Parisian does when he is undecided." This endless
and childish delight in everything appertaining to his town, and the accompanying frank indifference
to everything, pretty much, outside of it, is, in fact, so well known abroad that it has even
brought down upon the Parisian's unconscious head the epithet that he would consider the uttermost
of insults--"provincial!" He provincial! he who has invented those two withering words, "the
provinces" and "bourgeois."

Nevertheless, this capital of all possible civilizations does not hesitate to admit that it
must by all means do all in its power to attract the wealthy tourist of other nations, on whom
its prosperity is so largely dependent, especially since it has no longer the attractions of
a royal or imperial court to offer. No presentation of the city of Paris at the present day
would be complete without documents giving the opinions of its own cultured and intelligent
classes on its general characteristics and its most urgent needs. With regard to this question
of dependence upon strangers, endless quotations might be cited, and two or three may well
be printed here as more valuable contributions to this contemporary history than any speculations
by mere foreigners. The Revue Encyclopédique, published weekly by the great house of Larousse,
has a column which it devotes to ideas of general interest, underscored, and in this column
appeared, in the issue of January 23, 1897, the following communication: "For some time past
the Avenue de L'Opéra, at Paris, has been lighted by electricity by means of incandescent lamps
placed along the central axis of this great thoroughfare. This very handsome illumination serves
only to accentuate more strongly the monotonous melancholy of the double row of commercial
establishments the fronts of which are invariably closed at eight o'clock in the evening....
And sorrowful reflections are awakened of the brilliant evenings of thirty years ago, the movement
of foreigners along the boulevards, the crowd of promenaders constantly changing before the
dazzling show-windows of the end of the Second Empire. Why is not some effort made to revive
this brilliant past by creating attractions capable of arousing the curiosity of the Parisians
and, above all, of the foreigners? Could not some arrangement be made among all the shop-keepers
of the grand boulevards and of the principal adjacent streets (Rue de la Paix, Rue Royale,
Avenue de l'Opéra, etc.), that one evening a week be devoted to the exceptional adornment of
their establishments?" And the writer goes on to suggest, with Parisian ingenuity, that a jury
of artists might even be constituted to decide which display was the most brilliant and the
most worthy, and to award suitable recompense. "By this means it is probable that the street
and the boulevard would resume their former animation, to the great profit of the trade in
articles of luxury, so profoundly affected by the desertion of the foreigners."

In the year of grace, 1898, the Parisian world was greatly agitated by the fact that the Grand
Prix de Paris was run at Longchamps on the 5th of June, and that, consequently, the Parisian
season was brought to an ending most unreasonably early. These complaints were so insistent
that they found voice in the Municipal Council and were brought before the Prefect of the Seine.
It was contended that the treaty between the city and the Société d'encouragement of improvement
of the equine breed, its lessee at Longchamps, had been violated, inasmuch as the great event
had taken place before the middle of June. But the Société d'encouragement proved conclusively,
by the terms of its lease from the city, that the date and the regulations of the race were
left to its own judgment, and that, in point of fact, it had always taken place before the
15th of June. "But that which it is above all important to observe is, that the date of the
Grand Prix is determined, not according to the whim of the Société d'encouragement, but indeed
by that of the English Derby, which regulates also that of the French Derby. It is necessary,
in fact, that the same horses should take part in the three trials. The English, having set
the date of their Derby this year on the 26th of May, the French Derby, which precedes it,
had to be run on the 22d of May, and the Grand Prix de Paris, which occurs regularly ten days
after the English Derby, could only be run on Sunday, the 5th of June. It is impossible, moreover,
in any way to postpone this date, for the reason that the horses cannot be maintained in racing
condition for any longer period of time."

Notwithstanding this conclusive reasoning, Le Temps, one of the most eminent and dignified
journals of the capital, devoted a long article in its largest type, two days afterward, to
the duty of the Conseil municipal in the matter. "This date is not, in fact, a matter of indifference
to the interests of the city. It is, or it is considered to be, the moment selected for a general
exodus of foreigners and even of Parisians in comfortable circumstances toward the seaside
and other rural resorts. The shop-keepers therefore consider that they have cause for complaint
if this moment arrive too early. The municipal councillors who have constituted themselves
the spokesmen of their griefs have demanded and obtained a vote on a resolution having for
its object the designation of the third Sunday in June, at the earliest, as the date of this
equine solemnity.

"Whether this date may or may not be adopted, it seems to us that the interest which it awakens
is entitled to unqualified commendation. The Municipal Council in no way goes outside of its
proper sphere; on the contrary, it is well within it, when it concerns itself with the general
interests of the city of Paris, when it seeks for means of retaining in it and attracting to
it the largest possible number of foreigners and of very wealthy individuals whose presence
and whose habits have for result the circulation of a great deal of money and the constant
vivifying of the Parisian industries, which are, for the greater part, the industries of luxury.
The Municipal Council understands perfectly that this question of the sojourn of strangers
amongst us is in the highest degree an economical question which concerns the labor and the
wages of the Parisian workmen, as it does also the general prosperity of the finances of the
city. Therefore, far from criticising it for deliberating upon this question and others of
a similar nature, we should rather regret that it has not turned its attention upon them with
more constancy and consecutiveness.

"It is not, in fact, a simple matter of detail like that which has occupied the Municipal Council,
which can ameliorate or even guarantee the situation of Paris in so far as it is a rendezvous
or a residence for foreigners. These will not continue to come here and to remain here unless
their sojourn is made agreeable and peaceful for them. This is something which should be considered,
and it is a question which is closely connected with the general functions of our ædiles. It
is not to be imagined that with a few indirect measures this foreign colony, so essentially
susceptible and flitting by nature, can be constrained to remain among us and expend its money
against its own will. These are not birds that can be put in a cage, and, above all, retained
there. Even those whose passion for the races is well developed will easily find a method of
being present at the Grand Prix without domiciling themselves among us. They will only pass
through; we shall see them no more. The essential point is, therefore, to watch with the utmost
care, every day, that Paris shall never lose in their eyes its prestige and its attractions.
From this will ensue, if we wish to deduce from it, practical regulations for the administration
of the great city."

And the editor goes on to regret that the municipal authorities, so far from occupying themselves
exclusively with these details of public hygiene, street lighting, facility of transport, etc.,
should so frequently expend themselves upon "violent discussions of politique pure." "Is it
not true that in what concerns the general progress of urban life, whether it be the question
of transportation, or that of gas, or that of electricity, we are behind, and very greatly
behind, the condition which has been attained in London, in New York, in Berlin, and even in
Geneva and in some of our cities of the provinces?" These reflections appeared to be especially
opportune on the evening of the election which was to replace in the Municipal Council those
members who were about to leave it for the Chamber of Deputies. "The electors who are interested
in the aspect under which the city will present itself to foreigners in 1900, at the moment
of the Exposition Universelle, will not allow to escape this opportunity of manifesting their
sentiments upon this subject.... All those who labor to augment its prosperity accomplish much
more--be it known--for the amelioration of the condition of the work-people than the dreamers
of national confiscations and of obligatory collectivism, and their efforts, if they are in
the majority, will be otherwise efficacious in retaining the foreigners than by the moving
forward some fifteen days of the date of the Grand Prix. Although it is not to be despised,
a season of fifteen days' duration is, taking it altogether, but a slight gain. The foreigners
flock hither the whole year round, and it is the whole year round that it is necessary to make
them find it safe and agreeable to visit here, visits to which they are inclined and from which
the entire city derives such great benefits."

This exposition may be considered as an authentic, contemporary document, and, as has been
premised, these opinions are coeval and coterminous with an admirable civic self-satisfaction.
It is perhaps scarcely necessary to stipulate that in these general observations it is the
frame of mind and the mode of speech of what are known everywhere as the upper classes, the
more intelligent and refined, which are taken into account,--the Parisian workman, day-laborer,
and semi-criminal, though they figure very largely in the results of the general elections
(worse luck!), do not necessarily appear in the discussion of these questions of high importance.
It may be remembered that, at the period of this much-discussed Grand Prix, there was much
contradictory testimony as to the existence of a general feeling of hostility toward America
and the Americans among the French because of the Spanish war. Many depositions were made on
both sides, but there was a general consensus of opinion among the heads of the larger Parisian
commercial and manufacturing establishments as to that of their work-people. "Their political
views and manner of looking at things have no other horizon than that of the newspaper they
are in the habit of reading," said one chief of an important house, "they take no notice of
the effect which such crises may have upon their work." "We believe them to be absolutely indifferent,"
said another; "I can assure you that the workmen take not the slightest interest in this question,
and they probably would not understand it if it were put to them," testified a third. "As to
the working-class," said a merchant in the Rue de Rivoli, "they occupy themselves with their
own affairs, and nothing beyond. Apart from the social question, all they want is to earn as
much money as possible, and do the least work possible for it." One of these sons of toil corroborated
these statements very frankly. "I can assure you," said he, "that neither my comrades nor myself
side with one or the other. I assure you that it matters nothing to us. We have something better
to do than to gossip about the war."

Much the same conditions have obtained in the formation and development of this superior intellectual
and aristocratic Parisian society as in that of other civilized nations. We are all more or
less familiar with the general demonstrations by which the historians demonstrate the development
of the wealthy classes, by the aid and support of which alone the letters and the arts arise
and flourish. In the earliest stages of society, the struggle for life absorbs all possible
energy; a little comfort and security, and consequent leisure, bring in the arts. The half-starved
hunting-dog follows the game steadily, stealthily, without a superfluous sign or motion; after
the chase, and the subsequent feast and the subsequent luxurious slumber, he awakes to indulge
in unpractical gambols and barkings around his master,--it is the dance; Art is invented! The
three superior social classes, the king, the clergy, and the nobles, which were definitely
established in France at the outbreak of the Revolution, were the legitimate development of
the feudal system, and had, apparently, legitimately conquered their position. They had been
the protectors of the people even before the Carlovingian epoch, and when the people finally
arose and overturned them, it was only because they had completely forgotten their high mission
through a long course of years.

To Stendhal's observation, that, in the tenth century, a man considered himself lucky if he
were not killed, and had a good leathern jacket for winter, Taine adds, and a woman, if she
were not violated by a whole band of ruffians. In those truly Dark Ages the peasant accepted
quite willingly the hardest feudal obligations as a harbor of refuge from the ills that menaced
him on every side. The sixth and seventh centuries of our era are considered to have been among
the worst that the world has seen; it was declared that it was not with water, but with His
tears, that God moistened the earth out of which He made man. After the fall of the Romans,
it was the Church alone that saved human society from "a Mongol anarchy;" in the last years
of the Empire, the cities, illy defended by their natural protectors, gave to their bishops,
with the title of defensor civitatis, the principal municipal authority. The Church alone retained
any influence over the conquering barbarian; before the shaven monk or the mitred abbot, the
wolfish and ignorant chief, long-haired, filthy, and half-clad in furs, hesitated, listened
to his words in the council, stooped before his altars,--"like Saint Lupicin before the Burgonde
king Chilpéric, Saint Karileff before the king Childebert." In his moments of repose, after
the chase, or the battle, or the feast, the menaces of the prelate began to stir in his guilty
soul,--aided, perhaps, by the reproaches or the advice of his wife or his concubine; he hesitated
to violate the sanctuary lest he should fall dead with a broken neck on the threshold; if he
had been carried away by his passions, and committed murder or robbery, he repented and made
reparation, sometimes a hundred-fold. The cloister offered a refuge to those who fled aghast
from the world and sought meditation and solitude; the abbey was not only an asylum, but a
haunt of learning and practical industry, a seat of instruction for the farmer, the workman,
the student. "Thus the most evil centuries of the Middle Ages," says Duruy, "were acquainted
with virtues of which the finest ages of paganism were ignorant; and thus, thanks to a few
souls of the elect, animated by the pure spirit of Christianity, humanity was arrested on the
edge of the abyss in which it seemed about to precipitate itself."

Nevertheless, this historian admits that Christianity, which had not modified the manners of
Roman society, was itself an element in the dissolution of the Empire, and that the Church
itself acquired some of the rudeness of the barbarians with which it came into such intimate
contact. "Germans and Franks aspired to the honor of the episcopate, and carried into the basilicas
customs and manners which were strange there. The great intellectual movement which had formerly
animated religious society slackened, then ceased; the shadows descended upon the Church itself."

After Charlemagne's short-lived empire, the universal dissolution set in again. Against the
bands of brigands, four or five hundred strong each, that traversed the country, any defender
was welcome, and a second upholder of society arose,--the stout warrior, skilled in arms, who
gathered retainers around him, secured a hold or a castle, and offered protection in return
for service rendered. His title or his lineage mattered but little in the tenth century, his
defence was much too welcome for any carping about his arms or his ancestry,--he was an ancestor
himself. The original source of many noble houses is more than doubtful,--Tertulle, the founder
of the Plantagenets; Rollo, Duke of Normandy; the ancestors of Robert le Fort; the Capétiens
were said to have been descended from a butcher of Paris. His house is only a camp and a refuge;
some straw and a pile of leaves are thrown on the pavement of the great hall; it is there that
he sleeps with his horsemen, unbuckling a spur when he has a chance for repose; the loopholes
scarcely allow the day-light to enter,--it is important, above all, that the arrows do not.
All inclinations, all sentiments, are subordinated to the service; there are posts on the European
frontier where the boy of fourteen is called upon to march, and where the widow, up to sixty
years of age, is compelled to marry again. Men in the ranks, to fill up the vacancies, men
at the posts, to mount guard,--this is the cry that issues at this moment from all human institutions,
like the call of a voice of bronze." Thanks to these stout defenders, some form of society
is again made possible.

A later historian, M. Flach, in his Origines de l'ancienne France, finds the germ from which
sprang the whole feudal system in this patronage, the system of defence of the serf and vassal
by the landed proprietor. In the great disorganization of the Roman Empire, a portion of the
public authority passed into the hands of individuals; when the Frankish kings invaded Gaul,
they found there a system of patronage similar to their own. These great proprietors were maintained
under the first Merovingian kings, who kept them in due subjection; but as this regulation
gradually weakened under the growing power of the land-owner, the private individual found
himself ground between these two millstones. A private patron then became his only defence,
and thus was hastened the strictly feudal system. With regard to the royal function, which
crowned this feudal system, the historian cites two quotations in support of his thesis: "Under
Louis d'Outre-mer, the legate of the Pope, Marin, defined the royal authority,--he called it
patronage [patrocinium]. Forty years later the decisive argument of the Archbishop of Reims,
Adalbéron, in sustaining the claims of Hugues Capet to the throne, was: 'You will have in him
a father. No one, up to the present time, has invoked in vain his patronage [patrocinium].'"

Quite apart from these valid, historical reasons, the British "love of a lord" is by no means
confined to Great Britain. The Parisians, also, have a certain fondness for titles and distinctions
of all sorts. For the English aristocracy they profess a genuine admiration, as affording the
best example of the success of a certain élite in affecting the social conscience. They quote
approvingly John Bright when he admits that his folk--trades-people and commoners--are quite
willing to have their public affairs managed by a superior class, specially trained, enjoying
an independent and commanding social station. Their titles and their pride of ancestry give
them robes and plumes, and a troop follows its officers more readily when they are gorgeously
uniformed. Only, it is required that this privilege shall not be abused; no favor to mediocrities,
no nepotism. Victor Hugo was more proud of his title of vicomte Hugo than of his greatest work,
and Balzac's obstinacy in clinging to his particle of de has lately been shown to have been
completely unfounded. To Sainte-Beuve, who infuriated him by constantly speaking of him as
M. Honoré Balzac, he wrote: "My name is on my register of birth, as M. Fitz-James's is on his."
So it is, but without any de. In 1836, at the period of the legal process to which one of his
works, Le Lys dans la vallée, gave rise, he wrote: "If my name is that of an old Gaulish family,
it is not my fault; but my name, De Balzac, is my name patronymic, an advantage which is not
enjoyed by many aristocratic families who called themselves Odet before they called themselves
Châtillon, Riquet before Caraman, Duplessis before Richelieu, and which are none the less great
families.... If my name resounds well in some ears, if it is envied by some who are not content
with their own, I cannot therefore renounce it.... My father ... found in the Trésor des Chartres
the concession of land made in the fifth century by the De Balzacs to establish a monastery
in the environs of the little town of Balzac (department of La Charente), a copy of which,
he told me, was, by their action, enregistered by the Parliament of Paris." It appears that
there are existing no Merovingian records of any kind dating earlier than the seventh century;
and a keeper of archives, M. Ch. Portal, in the department of Tarn, in which the death of the
great novelist's father, "Bernard-François Balzac, born at Nougaïris," is recorded, having
looked the matter up, discovered that his ancestors were simple country-people, laborers, who
had never dreamed of a de before their name, which, in fact, was really Balssa or Balsa!

The French have no word in their language which exactly translates "snob," so they adopt with
enthusiasm the English syllable (mispronouncing it fearfully); and this curious weakness in
so great a writer and so keen a student of humanity would be even more remarkable if it were
not so very common among other civilized people. M. Jules Lemaître, a couple of years ago,
read before the five Academies of the Institute a careful study of this particular social class;
there were said to be a crowd of amateur playwrights besieging the managers with plays with
this title, and the pretentious claimer of things that are not his in the great world, "the
great nephew of Mascarille in the Précieuses ridicules," was honored with more analysis, comment,
and reconstruction than he was probably entitled to.

In addition to the three great classes that have ruled over France, and which, with the commons
or serfs, have been known to almost every European nation, a third class, the tiers état, still
in process of formation elsewhere on the Continent, but which arose in Paris and other great
cities in the thirteenth century, is claimed by the historians of this nation as peculiarly French.

Previous to Pepin and Charlemagne, Paris was generally recognized as the capital, though the
wandering and barbaric Frankish kings much preferred as places of residence their great country-houses
or villas, when they were neither hunting nor fighting. The court of Charlemagne, in the later
years of his reign, was held at Aix-la-Chapelle, his favorite abode. In 775 he was present
at the dedication of the new church of Saint-Denis, and the Parisians are said to have made
a fête of the occasion. Louis le Débonnaire, his son, more monk than king, also neglected the
city, excepting in the matter of founding churches and increasing the privileges of the clergy.
But under the last of the Carlovingian emperors, Charles le Gros, the capital redeemed its
right to that title by its gallant defence against the Northmen, or Normans, and its valiant
count, Eudes, having brought the sluggish emperor to the heights of Montmartre only to see
him conclude an unworthy peace with the invaders, founded himself the first national dynasty
when his fat suzerain was deposed in the following year. "One of the greatest figures of the
Carlovingian decadence," says M. Faure, in a recent monograph, "he continued the monarchy of
Charlemagne without changing anything in the institutions, and he gave a precise form to a
power that before him was still undecided, that of duke of the Franks."

The royal authority waxed and waned, the turbulent nobles exhausted themselves in war, in struggles
amongst themselves and against the king, but the wealth and power of the Church steadily increased.
Occasionally only, when its interference was too flagrantly unjust, its authority was defied.
The first Capétiens, like the first Carlovingians, whether from motives of self-interest or
sincere faith, were its faithful allies. Hugues Capet liked better to wear his cope as Abbot
of Saint-Martin de Tours than his crown, and he restored to the Church several abbeys which
he possessed. His son, Robert the Pious, was almost a saint, and the princes of this dynasty,
on the whole, merited the title which Rome gave them, of "eldest sons of the Church." Their
piety was not altogether without reward: the bishops of the Ile-de-France and the abbots, chiefs
of the abbeys founded by royal grace, brought more than once not only earthly weapons but a
spiritual one, that of excommunication, to the defence of the sovereign.

Robert's first care, after his accession to the throne in 996, was to rebuild the church of
Saint-Germain l'Auxerrois and the monastery of Saint-Germain-des-Près, which had been destroyed
by the Northmen. He also erected in his palace a chapel dedicated to Saint Nicolas, which,
in 1154, entirely restored, became the Sainte-Chapelle. He washed the feet of the poor, he
fed, it is said, sometimes a thousand of them a day; nothing was too sacred for them, neither
the silver ornaments of his lance nor the gold fringe of his robe. He was constant in his attendance
on the church services, he composed hymns, himself, which were long retained. Nevertheless,
having espoused his cousin Berthe, he found himself excommunicated by the Pope, Gregory V.
Among the earliest works of the painter Jean-Paul Laurens, long in the Luxembourg, is a graphic
presentation of this unhappy couple, clinging to each other in the poor, bare splendor of the
very early mediæval throne-room, the overturned great tapers of the excommunication service
on the floor before them, the smoke rising like anathema, and the last of the implacable ministers
of the Church departing through the open doorway. Every one deserted them, as though plague-stricken;
only two poor domestics remained to serve them, and they purified by fire every vessel from
which the unhappy monarch had taken food or drink. But Berthe was enceinte, and the king loved
her, and so clung to her and would not obey. One morning as he went to pray, according to his
custom, at the door of the church of Saint-Barthélemy, into which he was forbidden to enter,
Abbon, Abbé de Fleury, followed by two women of the palace, carrying a great silver-gilt plate
covered with a linen cloth, approached him, and announced that Berthe had been delivered. Then
he uncovered the plate:

"See!" he exclaimed, "the effects of your disobedience to the decrees of the Church, and the
seal of anathema on the fruit of your guilty love!"

And Robert recoiled in horror before a little monster with the head and neck of a duck! (Canard,
it may be noted, in French, signifies both a duck and a highly improbable story.)

So the poor queen was repudiated, and Robert married Constance, daughter of the Comte de Toulouse,
who made his life a burden to him. He hid himself from her to say his prayers, and feared her
so much that he did not hesitate to deny his charities and good deeds to her,--though he had
such a horror of falsehood, that he had made a casket of crystal, mounted with gold, but in
which he was careful not to put any holy relic, so that those who took their oaths on it before
him might not perjure themselves.

His son Henri I, who succeeded him, married a daughter of the Grand Duke of Russia, in order
that he might be certain of not taking a wife within the degrees of consanguinity prohibited
by the Church. This princess, Anne, claimed to descend through her mother, daughter of the
Emperor Romanus II, from Philip of Macedon.

The queen Constance brought with her from the Midi some of those troubadours whose romantic
airs and graceful verses were so appreciated in the little courts of the south of France and,
later, in the gloomy castles of the nobles of the north. Great was the prevalence of ennui
in these fortresses, in which there was but little sunshine and a great dearth of all other
refining and civilizing influences. It was impossible to be engaged in warfare or the chase
all the time, and the wandering pilgrim, with his tales from afar, or, still more, the wandering
minstrel, trouvère, as he was called in the north of France, was a welcome relief to the deadly
monotony of the days of peace. "Seated at the hearth of the seigneur, he sang, during long
evenings, the tragic adventures of the Dame de Fayel and of the Sire de Coucy, or the marvellous
exploits of the Knights of the Round Table, of Renaud, and of Roland, of Charlemagne and his
Twelve Peers; unless, indeed, his audience, in a livelier mood, demanded of him some sarcastic
fabliau, or the fine tricks played upon Master Isengrin by his shrewd gossip, Master Renard."

But these Aquitains in the train of Queen Constance, when they first appeared in the court
of the good Robert, were singularly offensive to the Parisians by their elegance, their luxurious
habits, and their light manners. "As soon as Constance appeared at the court," says Raoul Glaber,
"you could have seen France inundated by a species of folk the most vain and the most frivolous
of all possible men. Their fashion of living, their garments, their armor, the harness of their
horses, were all equally fantastic. Their hair descended scarcely as low as the middle of the
head [the northern French still retained the long flowing locks in the German fashion]: true
theatricals, in whom the shaved chin, the small-clothes, the ridiculous boots, ending in a
curved beak, and the whole outward appearance badly arranged, betrayed the disorder of their
minds. Men without faith, without law, without shame, whose contagious example will corrupt
the French nation, formerly so decent, and precipitate it into all kinds of debauchery and
wickedness."

Notwithstanding Robert's piety, his reign was signalized by a cruel persecution of the Jews,
in revenge for the destruction of the church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem by the Fatimite
caliph of Egypt, and by the first execution of heretics in France. Throughout the whole of
the Middle Ages, the Jews, forbidden to hold any landed property, were constantly persecuted,
plundered, and outraged, banished only to be called back again at the price of further exactions.
The first thirteen heretics were burned at Orléans in 1022; one of them had been the confessor
of Queen Constance, and as he passed her on his way to the stake, she put out one of his eyes
with a long rod she held in her hand. Nevertheless, the historian Duruy considers that this
certain mental movement, these deviations of the human intelligence from the beaten track,
demonstrated that the period in which all thought seemed dead had passed, and that the first
Renaissance began in this (eleventh) century.

A more recent writer distinguishes this century also by "that revolution in feudal France,"
the development of the commune. The great social fact was the disappearance of the three classes,
serfs, semi-freemen, and free men (libres), which had existed since the ninth century, and
their unity under subjection to the seigneur. This domination of the seigneur, at first justified
by the protection afforded, lost its authority when it began to consult only its self-interest,
and, toward the close of the century, stirred up revolts which led to the establishment of
all kinds of popular associations, guilds, confraternities, charities, communities, etc.

The only church erected in Paris during the thirty years' reign of Henri I was that of Sainte-Marine,
founded about 1036, and whose patron, according to the story, was a young virgin named Marine,
who conceived a strong desire to be a monk. So she disguised herself as a man, and became Brother
Marin in a convent. One of her duties was to go to the city for provisions, with an ox-cart,
and on her journeys she frequently passed the night in the house of the Seigneur de Pandoche,
whose daughter was found to be with child. To screen her lover, a soldier, she laid the blame
on Brother Marin, and he was accordingly driven from his monastery. However, he took the child,
which was sent him, nourished it, and the monks, touched by his meekness, finally received
him back in their fold. Not till his death was his secret discovered, when he was interred
with great religious pomp and canonized under his true name. Consequently, in the church of
Sainte-Marine were celebrated all the forced marriages of couples found living together without
the sanction of law, the public authorities compelling them to appear before the curé of Sainte-Marine,
who wedded them with a ring of straw, slipped on the bride's finger.

Henri's son, Philippe I, contrived, like his grandfather, to get himself excommunicated because
of his marriage, but for the space of ten years he seems to have concerned himself but little
about the wrath of the Church. He had repudiated his wife, Berthe, and taken Bertrade, whom
he had carried off from her husband, Foulque, Comte d'Angers. Finally, wearied of her, he presented
himself as a penitent, barefooted, before the council of 1104, Bertrade doing the same; they
protested their horror of their past conduct, their resolve to sin no more, and were accordingly
absolved. It was this monarch who, by his unseemly jest concerning William the Conqueror, of
whom he was both jealous and afraid, nearly brought down upon the Parisians again another Norman.
"When is that fat man going to be delivered?" inquired Philippe, with the delicate humor of
the Middle Ages. To which the Conqueror replied that he was coming to Paris for his "churching,"
with ten thousand lances instead of tapers. And, as was his fashion, he started to keep his
word: his advance guard was burning villages up to the gates of Paris, when, according to the
story, his horse stepped on some hot cinders at Mantes and in his sudden recoil so injured
the monarch that he died soon after at Rouen.

The great national assemblies which Charlemagne had so often consulted, and even those convocations
of the great lords and bishops which had been so frequent in the tenth century, fell into disuse
under the Capétiens, in consequence of the rise of the feudal power and the decline of the
royal authority. The king, by his constant donations to his leudes or great vassals, had, in
course of time, very nearly stripped himself of domains, and these bénéfices were retained
by the lords and made hereditary in their own families. It was the same with the public charges
and the titles of dukes, counts, etc., which carried with them an authority delegated by the
prince, and which ended by passing entirely out of his hands. Charlemagne had been able to
check the greed and ambition of the feudal lords, but his feebler successors were unable to
do so. Even the right of coining money was claimed by the great seigneurs, and in this century
there were no less than a hundred and fifty in France who exercised this privilege. Most of
them refused to receive any coinage but their own, and the confusion and difficulty in conducting
trade may be imagined. The nobles, solicitous to increase their power, founded new towns and
took them under their protection, granting certain privileges to the inhabitants, even that
of holding land, and under the cover of these privileges, as under those of the communes, the
tiers état, or third estate, was gradually formed. Similar grants were made to some of the
ancient cities, including Paris and Orléans, which seemed to have received all their franchises
from the Middle Ages and from the kings, excepting, in Paris, the corporation of the Nantes,
already referred to, whose privileges were confirmed by Louis VII.

This monarch, father of Philippe-Auguste, fixed the number of peers of France, the great seigneurs
who held directly from the crown, at twelve,--six laic and six ecclesiastical. The first were
the dukes of Burgundy, Normandy, and Guyenne, the counts of Champagne, Flanders, and Toulouse,
and, to counterbalance these puissant lords, six ecclesiastics, all the more attached to the
king that they were without landed property and consequently without much temporal power, the
Archbishop of Reims and the bishops of Laon, Noyon, Châlons, Beauvais, and Langres. The Court
of Peers was, however, not regularly organized before the beginning of the thirteenth century.
Notwithstanding the weakness of the royal authority, it still retained elements of strength
and superiority which time eventually developed. The king was nominal head of the whole feudal
society, he was the chief suzerain, and all the great lords were his vassals and owed him homage.
He was the supreme justice of the nation, and the vassals all were bound to appear before the
"Court of the King." This court was not only a great council, but also a court of justice;
the great vassals had the right to demand a trial by their equals, or peers, and in this case
the court became the Court of Peers. The fief, held from the suzerain, could not be diminished
or impaired in any way--just as the modern tenant has no right to damage his landlord's property;
at the death of the vassal, the suzerain inherited, and in case he left infant children, the
suzerain was the guardian.

Two incidents recorded by the chroniclers of the reign of that very capable monarch, Louis
VI, called le Gros, or the Fat, will serve to illustrate the manners and customs of the times
from two points of view. A short time before the marriage of the king with Adélaïde de Savoie,
he had, in the exercise of his royal authority, demolished part of a house, the property of
the Canon Duranci, in the Rue des Marmousets, because it projected too far out into the street
and obstructed the circulation. But the chapter of Notre-Dame protested in the name of its
privileges and of its immunities; the king admitted his error, and agreed to pay an indemnity
of a denier of gold; the chapter insisted that this should be done on the day of his marriage,
before he could be permitted to receive the nuptial benediction, and the crowned culprit was
obliged to consent that a formal record of the affair should be placed on the registers of
the chapter. It was recognized that he had no right to demolish any house, except for the purpose
of erecting a church on the site: this, although the narrowness and crookedness of the streets,
as well as their foul and miasmatic condition owing to the lack of all paving and sewerage,
were the constant sources of epidemics.

On the 13th of October, 1131, the king was riding with his son on the hillock of Saint-Gervais
(to-day the site of the Mairie of the IVth Arrondissement, on the Rue de Rivoli, a little beyond
the Hôtel de Ville), when a wandering pig ran between the legs of the young man's horse, causing
him to bolt and throw his rider, who was so badly injured that he died in a few hours. This
led to the promulgation of a royal ordinance forbidding the proprietors of swine in the city
to allow them to run at large, under penalty of confiscation for the benefit of the executioner
of Paris. This regulation was several times renewed,--in 1261 under Saint Louis, in 1331 under
Philippe VI, and in 1369 under Charles V, and extended to the faubourgs of Paris and the surrounding
districts. The decree of 1331 gave the sergeants of the city authority to kill all those which
they found wandering at liberty, to keep the head for themselves provided they transported
the body to the Hôtel-Dieu. The pigs of the abbey of Saint-Antoine alone were exempted from
this regulation, and, that they might be recognized, they bore a bell marked with a cross.

Louis le Gros, already occupied with measures to repress the growing power of the great nobles,
commenced the fortifications of Paris, which were not completed until during the reign of his
son, with a view of guarding his capital against any sudden attack. It is recorded that he
adopted the habit of the great Caliph of the Arabian Nights, of traversing the streets at night
in disguise and mingling familiarly with the people,--but with the design of drawing from them
their complaints against their feudal lords and their knowledge of their machinations. They
were not without their grievances against the king himself, and it was not till the reign of
his son that was abolished the right of the royal officers, when the king came to Paris, to
enter the houses of the bourgeoisie and carry off for their own use the bedding and the downy
pillows they found therein.

During the long reign of Philippe-Auguste, which even the modern historians call "glorious,"
the power of the nobles was seriously impaired. The Cour du Roi retained the organization it
had received, but its importance increased with that of the royal authority, and the most powerful
vassal of the king of France saw himself dispossessed of his fiefs by its decree. The feudal
power was attacked in one of its most cherished rights, that of private warfare, by a royal
ordinance compelling the observance of a truce of forty days after any injury, so that no one
might be assailed without warning. Any seigneur might be at once vassal and suzerain, but when
Philippe acquired the fief of the Amiénois, for which he was to render homage to the Bishop
of Amiens, he refused, saying that the king of France should be the vassal of no man. "To the
feudal contract, between man and man, symbolized by the homage and the investiture, the thirteenth
century saw succeed the democratic contract between a man and a group, between seigneurs and
subjects, carrying an engagement written and public. Then began the conquest of liberty,--liberty
of the person, of the family, and of the property; liberty administrative and political; economic
liberty.... Of the total sum of partial contracts intervening between the king and the provinces,
cities and corporations, has been formed the great national contract tacitly concluded between
him and the people." (M. Imbart de la Tour.)

Notwithstanding war, famine, and pestilence, Paris had outgrown the fortifications of Louis
le Gros, and, before he departed for the Crusade, Philippe-Auguste ordered the bourgeois of
the city to construct a new wall, solidly built of stone, with towers and gates. This was commenced
in 1190; the faubourgs were surrounded with a wall of more than two mètres in thickness, faced
with masonry, flanked by five hundred towers and pierced with fifteen gates. Its course can
be traced on any good map of modern Paris, and the size of the mediæval city thus compared
with that of the present one. On the right bank of the river it began with a tower that was
called "the tower which makes the corner," and which stood near the northern end of the present
Pont des Saints-Pères. Thence it passed to the Porte-Saint-Honoré, near the present Oratoire
and the statue of Coligny on the Rue de Rivoli, which was defended by two towers, struck northerly
to the site of the present square formed by the intersection of the Rues Jean-Jacques-Rousseau
and Coquillière, just north of the Bourse, where was a gate called Bahaigne. Here it turned
eastward, cut off the commencements of the Rues Montmartre and Montorgueil, traversed also
the Rue Française, and, following the direction of the little Rue Mauconseil, arrived at the
Rue Saint-Denis, where was another gate called Porte-Saint-Denis, or Porte aux Peintres. Continuing
in this direction, it traversed the Boulevard Sébastopol and the Rue Saint-Martin, enclosing
the Rue aux Ours, followed the Rues Grenier-Saint-Lazare and Michel-le-Comte, traversed the
Rue du Temple, and came to a tower erected nearly on the site of the Mont-de-Piété of to-day,
between the Rues des Francs-Bourgeois and des Blancs-Manteaux, opposite to the Palais des Archives.
Remains of this tower were discovered in 1878, in demolishing some old houses to make way for
the enlargement of the Mont-de-Piété; it served to enclose a circular staircase. The wall continued
to follow the Rue Francs-Bourgeois to another gate, the Porte Barbette, at the intersection
of the Rue Vieille-du-Temple with the Rue des Rosiers; then, beginning to trend south, it followed
nearly the Rue Malher to the Place Birague, not far from where the Rue de Rivoli becomes the
Rue Saint-Antoine. Here was another gate, the Porte Baudet or Baudoyer. Thence the line of
fortification, crossing the locality of the present church Saint-Paul-Saint-Louis, descended
to the river in the direction of the Rue des Barres, and ended on the quai, at the Porte Barbel-sur-l'Yeau.
Vestiges of this tower were also found in 1878.

On the south side of the river the wall was not commenced till 1208, when that on the northern
side was completely terminated. Instead of making a close junction with that on the other shore,
it took its start somewhat to the eastward of the "corner tower," at the famous Tour de Nesle,
on the locality now occupied by the right wing of the Bibliothèque Mazarine and the Hôtel des
Monnaies. It crossed the Rue Dauphine and halted on the Rue Saint-André-des-Arts at the Porte
Buci; crossed the Boulevard Saint-Germain, where was another gate, the Porte des Cordeliers,
afterward Porte Saint-Germain; descended the Rue Monsieur-le-Prince to the Boulevard Saint-Michel,
where was the Porte de Fert or d'Enfer, which became the Porte Saint-Michel under Charles VI.
From this gateway the wall continued southeasterly to that of Notre-Dame-des-Champs, between
the Rue Soufflot and the Rue des Fossés-Saint-Jacques, just south of it, enclosed the Place
du Panthéon, crossed the Rue Descartes at the Porte Bordet or Bordel, crossed the Rue Clovis,
and traversed the locality at present occupied by the buildings of the École Polytechnique.
Continuing in a northerly direction, it reached the Porte Saint-Victor near the present junction
of the Rue Saint-Victor and the Rue des Écoles, and finally arrived at the Quai de la Tournelle
by following a direction parallel to that of the Rue des Fossés-Saint-Bernard.

It was to Philippe-Auguste also that the city of Paris was indebted for its first paved streets.
In 1185, five years before the wall of fortification was begun, he was in one of the great
halls of his palace in the Cité, and approached a window whence he was in the habit of watching
the traffic on the Seine. Some heavy wagons or carts were being drawn through the streets at
the time, says the historian Rigord, and such an insupportable odor was stirred up from the
mud and filth that the king was obliged to leave the window, and was even pursued by it into
his palace. From this occurrence came his resolve to carry out a work from which all his predecessors
had shrunk because of the great expense involved, and which, indeed, discouraged the bourgeois
and the prevost of the city when the royal commands were laid upon them. Instead of carrying
it out for all the streets and by-ways of the capital, they appear to have contented themselves
with paving the environs of the palace, and the two streets which traversed the Cité from north
to south and from east to west, and which were called the croisée de Paris. This paving was
effected by means of square stones fifteen centimètres long and fifteen to eighteen thick.
The bourgeoisie found the expense so heavy that under Louis XIII half of the streets of Paris
were still unpaved.

In 1204, the king charged the prévôté of Paris to pay to the prior and the monks of Saint-Denis
de la Chartre thirty sous parisis for the privilege of building on their land, and he commenced
the construction of the Louvre. The site had long been occupied by a sort of suburban house
of entertainment, and the king resolved to erect a strong château, commanding the Seine. This
château was square, the thick walls pierced with small windows and loopholes arranged without
order, surrounded by wide and deep ditches, and completed by a great tower rising in the middle.
Over the pointed roof floated the royal banner, and within were confined the State prisoners,
and the royal treasures, crown-jewels, and Trésor des Chartres. In 1200, this indefatigable
monarch conceived the idea of uniting all the different schools established in Paris under
one head, but the corporation of the Université was not constituted until twelve years later.

The life and reign of Louis VIII, son of Philippe-Auguste and father of Saint-Louis, have recently
been made the subject of special research by M. Petit-Dutaillis, whose history may serve to
give his short reign of three years a greater importance in the eyes of subsequent students
than it has received. He surrounded himself with the same political advisers that had served
his father, and was inspired by the same political and administrative principles: the death
of King John and the birth of the infant Henry III caused his expedition to England, while
still Dauphin, to fail, and in his attempt to unite the crowns of Hugues Capet and of William
the Conqueror he had against him the influence of the Pope. His energetic and persevering obstinacy
won for him the surname of "the Lion;" and, moreover, he was haunted "by those visions of sanctity
and of power to which the clerical and classical education gave birth, the sole general ideas
which enlightened and enlarged the darkened and narrow brains of the men of the Middle Ages."
The French historians are of the opinion that it was to his father's victory of Bouvines that
England was indebted for her Magna Charta.

His entry into Paris after his coronation at Reims is described enthusiastically by the chroniclers
of the times. "The whole city turned out before him; the poets chanted odes in his praise,
the musicians filled the air with the sound of the vielle [hurdy-gurdy!], of fifes, of tambours,
of the psalterion and of the harp." Another admires the richness of the garments: "It is a
pleasure to see the embroideries of gold and the coats of jewelled silk sparkle on all the
public places, in the streets, in the squares. Old age, the flower of life, petulant youth,
all stoop under the weight of the purple. The servitors and the domestics abandon themselves
to the joy of being covered with adornments, and forget their condition of servitude on seeing
the splendid stuffs which they display on their persons. Those who had not garments worthy
of figuring in such a festival procured them by borrowing."

On the occasion of another procession which took place during this reign, and in which, as
in so many other mediæval demonstrations, the devout participants walked barefoot, the religious
zeal of these latter was so great that they appeared, most of them, in their shirts, and very
many quite naked. This did not prevent the three queens, Isemberge, widow of Philippe-Auguste;
Blanche, wife of Louis VIII, and Bérengère, Queen of Jerusalem, from watching the procession
with great interest. This chronicler, Guillaume Guiart, records another instance of the manners
and customs of the period, in which Queen Blanche again appears. It was the custom, at mass,
when the officiating priest pronounced the words: "The peace of the Lord be with you!" for
each worshipper to turn to his neighbor on the left and give him the kiss of peace. On one
occasion, the queen, having received this chaste salutation, bestowed it in her turn upon a
girl of the town who was kneeling next her, but whose dress was that of a respectable married
woman. Greatly offended, she procured from her royal husband an edict that, in future, these
coureuses d'aiguillettes should be forbidden to appear in robes with trains, in falling collars
and gilded girdles. Saint-Louis, Queen Blanche's son, for all his sanctity, appears to have
been the first king of France to introduce a royal falconer into his court.

Concerning this monarch, "in whose grand figure," says M. Henri Martin, "is summed up all that
there is of pure and elevated in the Catholicism of the Middle Ages," we have, fortunately,
abundant information in the chronicles of the Sire de Joinville, his secretary and intimate
friend, who, with Villehardouin, is one of the first in date and in merit of these national
historians. The piety of the king--like that of most other truly sincere mortals--had about
it something simple and ingenuous which Joinville records with equal frankness. When they first
embarked on their voyage to the Crusade, the clerks and the seigneurs were fearfully seasick
and much repented themselves; when they had somewhat recovered, the king would draw them into
serious conversation. On one day, says Joinville:

"'Sénéchal,' said the king, 'what is it that is God?' 'Sire, it is so sovereign and so good
a thing that nothing could be better.' 'Truly, that is very well replied, for this response
is written in this little book which I hold in my hand. Another question I will put to you,
that is to say: 'Which would you prefer, to be leprous and ugly, or to have committed a mortal
sin?' And I," says Joinville, "who never wished to lie to him, I replied to him that I would
rather have committed thirty mortal sins than to be a leper. When the brothers had all departed
from where we were, he called me back alone and made me sit at his feet, and said to me: 'How
have you dared to say that which you said to me?' And I reply to him that I would say so again.
And then he says to me: 'Ha, fou musart, musart, you are deceived there, for you know that
there is no leprosy so ugly as that of being in mortal sin. And I pray you, for the love of
God in the first place, and for the love of me, that you retain this in your heart.'"

The king's piety did not prevent him from showing an unyielding front to the turbulent nobles
and duly strengthening the royal authority at their expense. By enforcing the regulations of
Philippe-Auguste, he well-nigh put a stop to the private wars and the judicial duel; he decided
that the royal coinage alone should circulate in the kingdom; at his death, "Royalty already
appeared as the unique centre of jurisdiction and of power, and the tiers état amassed every
day more science and more riches--which always ends by giving also more influence." The French
language, disengaging itself from its Latin idioms, had become the language of legislation;
it was that of the Assises, or laws of the kingdom of Jerusalem. The poetry of the troubadours
had perished in the atrocious crusade against the Albigeois, but, "north of the Loire, the
trouvères were still composing the chansons de geste, veritable epic poems which were translated
or imitated by Italy, England, and Germany. So that we are quite justified in saying that,
from the twelfth century, the intellectual domination of Europe appertained incontestably to
France."

The formation of the collection of manuscripts known as the Trésor des Chartes is due to Saint-Louis.
These archives he gathered together and placed in the Sainte-Chapelle,--founded to receive
the true Crown of Thorns which he had received from Baldwin II, Emperor of Constantinople.
He restored and protected the great hospital of the Hôtel-Dieu; and when his chaplain, Robert
de Sorbon, in 1253, being at that time canon of Paris, conceived the design of erecting a building
devoted to the instruction, by a certain number of secular ecclesiastics, doctors in theology,
of poor students, who, at that period, were frequently obliged to live in the utmost poverty
in order to pursue their studies, the king purchased for the purpose a building situated in
the Rue Coupe-Gueule before the Palais des Thermes. The canonization of the monarch was celebrated
with great pomp in the spring of 1297, under Philippe IV; all the nobles of the kingdom, clerical
and laic, were invited to the capital, the body was placed in a silver casket and carried in
a procession from Saint-Denis to Paris, where it was transferred to the church of Saint-Denis.
Some time afterward, one of the ribs was placed in Notre-Dame and a part of the head in the
Sainte-Chapelle.

It was under very different circumstances that these earthly remains were first carried from
Paris to Saint-Denis. The king had died in his second Crusade, under the walls of Tunis; his
son and successor, Philippe III, re-entered Paris in 1271, bringing with him five coffins,--that
of his father, of his brother, of his brother-in-law, of his wife, and of his son. He insisted
upon carrying, unaided, upon his shoulders, the body of his father from Paris to Saint-Denis,
and at the localities upon the road where he was obliged to stop and rest, crosses of stone
were erected, and remained for several centuries. Fortunately, this was the last of the Crusades.

This filial piety did not save the young king from much tribulation. Soon after his second
marriage, with the princess Marie de Brabant (during the rejoicings attending which the Parisians
consumed an inordinate quantity of wine, it is said, because the cabaretiers, in revenge for
the renewal of an old tax the year before, had put more water than ever in their casks), his
eldest son, the child of his first wife, died. The king's chamberlain, the surgeon Pierre de
Labrosse, accused the young queen of having poisoned the prince. The queen protested her innocence;
the nobles of her train asserted, on the contrary, that Labrosse was probably the murderer,
as he was jealous of the confidence which the king bestowed upon her, and which the chamberlain
had previously enjoyed. The king was unable to believe either of them guilty; the medical science
of the day was quite unequal to the task of determining whether there had been any poisoning;
the queen demanded that Labrosse be put to the torture, and, to decide this doubtful question,
appeal was had to the judicial duel. The duke, Jean de Brabant, arrived to maintain his sister's
innocence in the lists; if he were vanquished, she would be burned at the stake. While the
unhappy king was sending messengers to a celebrated béguine, a species of nun, in Brabant,
who was reported to have the gift of revelation, and receiving only obscure replies, a certain
man suddenly fell ill in a convent in Melun, after having confided to a monk a sealed letter
to be sent to the king. The king received it, read it, showed it to his council, which declared
that the seal and the writing were undoubtedly those of Labrosse. Whereupon the chamberlain
was arrested, accused of high treason, correspondence with the enemies of France, peculation,
everything except the real offence, and finally hung upon the celebrated gibbet of Montfaucon,--the
first mention of it in history, though it had been long in existence.

It was in the first year of the reign of this monarch that the first Parisian was ennobled,--Raoul,
"called the Goldsmith," the king's silversmith. Philippe afterward extended this privilege
to several other worthy bourgeois who had distinguished themselves in the arts. Restricted
as the space enclosed within the wall of Philippe-Auguste had been, it still contained many
cultivated fields and other unbuilt-upon tracts of land; the numerous religious edifices and
university establishments erected since that reign had occupied these waste spaces, and the
population had even over-flowed in several directions and congregated around the abbeys that
had been constructed outside the walls. When Philippe IV, the Bel, succeeded his father in
1285, four principal streets were paved,--those leading to Saint-Denis and to the Portes Baudet,
Saint-Honoré, and Notre-Dame. The bourgeois successfully resisted the demands of the prévôt
of Paris that they should pave more.

Under Philippe IV, the conditions regulating the acquisition of the rights of bourgeoisie were
definitely determined. Any free colon--i.e., stranger, sojourner--could go before the prévôt
of the city with two witnesses, engage himself to contribute to the finances of the city, and
to build or to purchase within the space of a year a house of the value of, at least, sixty
sous parisis; on these conditions he was recognized as a bourgeois of Paris, and, in consequence,
was obliged to reside within its limits from the day of Toussaint to that of Saint-Jean, in
the summer, or at least to leave his wife there, or his valet, if he were a bachelor. The population
of Paris was thus composed of the clergy, of the nobility,--of which the king was the chief,--of
the bourgeois or proprietors roturiers, of the colons,--free or still vilains,--and of a few
serfs of the soil whom their owners had obstinately refused to emancipate.

One of the strongest grievances which this population had against the king was his repeated
debasements of the royal coinage, and on one of these occasions their discontent was so menacing
that, notwithstanding he had hastily caused some specie of legal weight and value to be struck,
he left his own palace and sought refuge with the Templars. The establishment of this order
had greatly increased since they had first found an asylum in Paris under Louis VI; the ancient
gate of the tower of the Temple was demolished as late as 1810. Within their walls was asylum
for all, as in the churches, and the king was none too prompt, for the angry multitude was
soon at the gates. Before these frowning walls, they hesitated, but a few of the more hardy
pushed past the guard at the portal and penetrated as far as the kitchens. "What do you want
here?" inquired the mâitre-queux, the chief cook. "To know what is going on here," replied
the boldest of the invaders. "Why, the dinner of our dear lord, the king." "Where is this dinner?"
"Here it is." And he presented an appetizing dish to his interlocutor, who passed it on to
his comrades, saying: "Here, all of you, it is the King of France who gives the feast." By
this time the alarm had been given, and the intruders would have paid dearly for their enterprise
had not Philippe ordered that they be allowed to depart unmolested. However, though they went
away very proud of having eaten the king's dinner, a few days later the bodies of twenty-eight
of their number were seen hanging in a row along the ramparts of the town. It was rumored that
the Templars had not been altogether ignorant of the gathering of this popular tumult, and
that if the entrance to their fortress had been so easily forced it was not altogether without
their knowledge; their ruin is said by some historians to have been determined in the king's
mind from this date. On Friday, the 13th (!) of October, 1307, the Parisian population were
very much surprised to learn that the grand-master of the order and all the knights had been
arrested, their entire property confiscated, and the Temple occupied by the king and his court.
In this nefarious enterprise Philippe had taken care to secure the co-operation of the Pope,
Clement V; the wildest charges, of idolatry, magic practices, cruelty and outrage, were brought
against the order; fifty-six of the knights were burned alive at a slow fire at Vincennes,
and, finally, in 1313, the grand-master and another dignitary, on the little Ile aux Vaches,
to-day the platform of the Pont-Neuf, in the presence of the king and all his court. A popular
legend asserts that as the figure of the grand-master, Jacques de Molay, disappeared finally
in the smoke and flame of his pyre, he was heard, in a solemn voice, to summon his executioners
to meet him before the bar of God, the Pope within forty days and the king within the year.
Certain it is that both these potentates died within the appointed time.

The provincial synod which had condemned the fifty-six Templars had been presided over by one
of Philippe's confidants, the Archbishop of Sens, brother of the king's minister of finances,
Enguerrand de Marigny. It was this latter who set the melancholy example of being hanged by
his royal master's successor, which was followed by other finance ministers in two succeeding
reigns. His innocence, however, was formally recognized by the king, Louis X, before the end
of his short reign of eighteen months, a sum of ten thousand livres was granted to his children,
"in consideration of the great misfortune which has befallen them," and his principal accuser,
the Comte de Valois, stricken with paralysis ten years later, made amends by a general distribution
of alms to the poor of Paris, with the request that they would "pray to God for Monseigneur
Enguerrand and for Monseigneur Charles de Valois." Much the same fate awaited Gérard de la
Guette, minister of Philippe V, le Long, who reigned for six years after Louis X,--only, as
he had expired under the torture, this minister was hanged after death, and his innocence duly
acknowledged in course of time. Pierre Remy, successor of Gérard de la Guette and treasurer
of Charles le Bel, who succeeded Philippe le Long, was arrested by Charles's successor, Philippe
de Valois, even before he had been crowned, and hanged on the gibbet of Montfaucon, like his
predecessors. He was at first intended for the little gibbet of Montigny, reserved for the
vulgar, but on his way there--whether moved by sudden remorse, or by ambition for higher honors--he
accused himself of a multitude of new crimes, among others, of high treason against the king
and against the State. He was accordingly transferred to Montfaucon, where he had the distinction
of being hanged above all others. This was in 1328.

"The amount of his property which was confiscated," says the historian Félibien, "was estimated
at twelve hundred thousand livres, which was the produce, as well as the proof, of his pillaging;
but this example and that of several others of a similar kind did not serve to render any more
moderate those who have since had charge of the finances,--as witness Macé de Manches, treasurer-changer
of the king's treasury, executed, like Pierre Remy, in 1331; Réné de Siran, director of the
mint, treated in the same fashion in 1333, and some others."

Louis X, Philippe V, and Charles IV, the three sons of Philippe le Bel who reigned in succession
after him, and who ended the elder branch of the Capétiens, were even more unfortunate in their
wives than in their treasurers. These three Burgundian princesses, Marguerite, Jeanne, and
Blanche, were of an exceedingly dissolute character; the eldest and the youngest resided in
the abbey of Maubuisson and had for lovers two Norman gentlemen, Philippe and Gaultier d'Aulnay.
The king, Philippe le Bel, being informed, caused the two Normans to be arrested, in 1314;
they confessed under torture, and were condemned to be flayed alive, mutilated, decapitated,
and hung up by the arm-pits. The two princesses, after having had their heads shaved, were
conducted to the Château-Guillard, where they were most ingeniously persecuted. When the husband
of Marguerite ascended the throne, in 1315, as Louis le Hutin, or the Quarreller, he disposed
of his unworthy spouse by smothering her between two mattresses, or, according to the local
legend, strangling her with her own long hair.

Neither Brantôme nor Villon gives the name of the sanguinary princess who is said to have inhabited
the Tour de Nesle, attracted handsome young men passing by, and in the morning had them strangled
and thrown into the Seine, but romance or popular report has ascribed these doings to Marguerite
de Bourgogne, though it is certain that she never lived in the Tour de Nesle. Other romances
have designated Jeanne, wife of Philippe le Long, as the princess celebrated for her amours
with Buridan, rector of the University in 1347; but this story is equally unfounded, as she
died in the Hôtel de Nesle in 1329, leaving behind her a great reputation for gallantry, royal
widow though she was. The Hôtel de Nesle occupied nearly the site of the present Mint, adjoining
the Institute.

When the question of deciding upon a successor for Louis X arose, the famous Loi Salique, by
which at least one modern historian, M. Duruy, thinks France has profited but little, was revived.
Louis le Hutin left but one child, a daughter; a posthumous son, Jean, lived but a week. "Should
his sister take the crown? A text of Scripture reads: 'The lilies spin not, and yet Solomon,
in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.' This evidently signifies that the kingdom
of the lilies shall not fall under the sway of a distaff. In the fourteenth century this was
a reason. There were others: it was not to be desired that a foreigner should acquire France
by a marriage; and the States-General, applying to the Crown the rule of succession formerly
established for the Salic domains, excluded the daughter of Louis X from the throne. Thus the
right of inheritance recognized for daughters for the fiefs was denied for the Crown."

Philippe le Long, also, had only daughters, and their uncle, Charles IV, accordingly succeeded,
only to see the same fate befall his children. On his death-bed he said to his barons: "If
the queen give birth to a son, he will be your king; if a daughter, the crown will belong to
Philippe de Valois, whom I declare your regent." Another branch of the Capétiens, the Valois,
thus assumed the sceptre. But this interpretation, thus three times renewed in twelve years,
was contested abroad. Philippe VI of Valois was a cousin of Charles IV, nephew of Philippe
le Bel and grandson of Philippe III. Edward III, King of England, was a grandson of Philippe
IV by his mother Isabella, and he protested against this decision and asserted his right to
the throne of France, mildly in 1328, on the accession of Philippe VI, and strongly eight years
later. Thus came about the Hundred Years' War, and, incidentally, the residence in Paris, as
if in his capital, of an English king.

Unfortunately, the French nobility were divided in these evil days coming upon the capital
and the nation. In 1329, the Comtesse de Mahaut, who held the comté d'Artois, died in Paris,
poisoned. Robert d'Artois, a prince of the blood, one of the royaux de France, claimed the
succession, but the king awarded it to the queen Jeanne, widow of Philippe le Long; a month
later, as she was about to take possession of the comté, she also died suddenly, poisoned by
one of the officers of her table, in the hippocras, or medicated wine, which he handed her.
Whereupon Robert produced documents, duly signed and sealed by his grandfather, Robert I, in
which he was designated as the successor to his title to the comté; these letters were recognized
as forgeries, and Robert was banished from the kingdom forever by the Court of Peers, and his
property confiscated. The false witnesses whom he had suborned were arrested,--a demoiselle,
Jeanne de Divion; his clerk, Perrot de Sanis; his fille de chambre, Jeannette des Chaînes,
and Pierre Tesson, notary. All this made a tremendous sensation in Paris; a Jacobin, called
as one of the witnesses, refused to reveal the secrets of the confessional; he was threatened
with the rack by the Bishop of Paris; the doctors in theology assembled and decided that he
must testify, in the interests of justice, which he did, and was accordingly confined in prison
for the rest of his days. The demoiselle La Divion was burned alive on the Place of the Marché-aux-Pourceaux,
in the presence of the prévôt of Paris and a great multitude of people; the same fate finally
befell Jeannette de Chaînes, after having concealed herself in various localities, in 1334,
on the same place; eight other false witnesses were condemned to the pillory and other punishments,
the notary to perpetual imprisonment, and others to make amende honorable.

This ceremony, so usual in the Middle Ages, consisted in the culprit walking in his shirt,
bareheaded and barefoot, conducted by the public executioner, a rope around his neck, a candle
of yellow wax in his hand, a placard explaining his crime on his chest, another on his back,
to some public place, usually the Parvis-Notre-Dame, and there, in an audible voice, avowing
his crime and professing repentance. No rank of society, not even the monarch himself, was
exempt from this punishment, which frequently was only the prelude to execution. The chief
criminal, in this case, took refuge in Brabant, and there, to revenge himself, envoulta the
king's son.

This was the familiar process in witchcraft by which an image of the person attacked being
made in wax, baptized, and the voult duly performed, with a mass said and religious consecration,
it is then melted before a fire, or in the sun, or pierced with a needle. This was discovered.
Robert, afraid of prosecution for sorcery, thought himself too near France and escaped to England,
where he urged Edward III to war against his native country.

Notwithstanding the national troubles, the court and the Parisians seemed disposed to give
themselves up to pleasure. The marriage of the king's second son, Philippe, with Blanche, daughter
of Charles le Bel, was celebrated with great pomp, and with a tournament at which assisted
the most illustrious knights of France and many from abroad. Among these was the Duc de Normandie,
against whom the king pitted the Seigneur de Saint-Venant, and the duke was overthrown, horse
and man. The Comte d'Eu, Constable of France, received a lance-thrust in the chest, from which
he died that night. These casualties were only too common in these celebrations, which were
constantly discouraged by the popes, and even forbidden by some of the kings of France. At
the close of these particular exercises, Olivier de Clisson, the Baron d'Avangour, Geoffroi
and Georges de Malestroit, and other Breton chevaliers were arrested and conducted to the prisons
of the Châtelet on charges of high treason and of conspiring with the king of England.

The historian Mézeray declares that in the capital the sumptuousness of apparel, the lascivious
dances, the multiplication of entertainments, were common both to the court and the citizens.
Nothing was to be seen but jongleurs, farceurs, and other actors and buffoons, extravagance,
debauchery, and constant change. "All the misfortunes of the nation did not serve to correct
them; the spectacles, the games, and the tourneys constantly succeeded each other. The French
danced, as it were, on the bodies of their relatives. They seemed to rejoice at the conflagration
of their châteaux and their houses, and at the death of their friends. Whilst some of them
were having their throats cut in the country, the others were feasting in the cities. The sound
of the violins was not interrupted by that of the trumpets, and there could be heard at the
same time the voices of those singing in the balls, and the pitiful cries of those who perished
in the flames or under the edge of the sword."

Another chronicler, Robert Gaguin, writing in the fifteenth century, dilates on the constant
changes in the Parisian fashions in 1346. "In those times, the garments differed very much
from each other. When you saw the manner in which the French clothed themselves, you would
have taken them for mountebanks. Sometimes the vestments which they adopted were too large,
sometimes they were too narrow; at one period they were too long, at another, too short. Always
eager for novelties, they could not retain for ten years the same style of apparel."

Jean II succeeded his father Philippe in 1350, and has preserved his surname of le Bon, or
the Good, though his reign was one of the most disastrous in history. One of his very first
acts was to cause the arrest, in the Hôtel de Nesle, of Raoul, Comte d'Eu, Constable of France,
whom he accused of high treason, and, without any form of law, had him beheaded at night in
the presence of the Duc de Bourbon, the Comte d'Armagnac, the Comte de Montfort, and several
other high personages of the court. All his property was confiscated, his comté was given to
the king's cousin, Jean d'Artois, and the king kept the rest. In the following year he founded
an order of knighthood, in imitation of that of the Garter, established by Edward III in England,
and which, in its turn, served as a model for that of the Toison d'Or, the Golden Fleece, instituted
in 1439 by the Duke of Burgundy. King Jean gave to his order the name of Notre-Dame de la Noble
maison, but it was more generally known as that of l'Étoile, the Star. According to Froissart,
it was "a company after the manner of the Round Table, which should be constituted of three
hundred of the most worthy chevaliers." They took an oath never to flee in battle more than
four arpents,--about four hundred perches,--and there to die or to yield themselves prisoners;
the king gave them for a residence the royal lodging of Saint-Ouen, near Paris. "True chivalry
was departing, since the kings endeavored to create an official chivalry."

Ten days after the battle of Poitiers, in which the king and his youngest son, Philippe le
Hardi, were taken prisoners, the Dauphin Charles, Duc de Normandie, returned to Paris, took
the title of lieutenant of the King of France, and convoked the estates, which assembled in
October. The bourgeoisie, irritated at the ineptitude of the royal power, assumed the authority
under the prévôt of the merchants, Etienne Marcel, and the civil war followed. On the side
of the dauphin were the nobility and all those attached to the court; on that of the prévôt,
the bourgeoisie, the shop-keepers, artisans, and common people. The latter extended the fortifications,
especially those on the northern side of the city, so as to include all the buildings erected
outside the walls of Philippe-Auguste. The dauphin, with a force of seven thousand lances,
occupied alternately Meaux, Melun, Saint-Maur, the bridge of Charenton, and shut off all the
supplies coming from the upper Seine and the Marne. The attempt of Marcel to deliver the city
to Charles le Mauvais, King of Navarre, was discovered, the prévôt was killed at the city gate,
and the dauphin entered Paris triumphantly two days later.

In 1364, he succeeded to the throne, under the title of Charles V, and by his wise administration,
his prudent conduct of the war, and the judicious management of the finances, secured for himself
the surname of "the Sage." He rendered the parliament permanent, instead of occasional, and
he gave it for its sittings in the Cité the ancient palace of Saint-Louis, which became the
Palais de Justice. A royal ordinance, which remained in force till the Revolution, fixed the
majority of the kings of France at thirteen years of age, and provided that the regent should
not be the guardian of the young prince; another, dated in 1370, authorized the bourgeois of
Paris to wear the spurs of gold and other ornaments of the order of knighthood, and a third,
of 1377, awarded titles of nobility to the prévôts and échevins, or aldermen, of the city.
In 1369, the authority of the prévôt of Paris was officially confirmed in regard to all offences
and misdemeanors committed within the city by any person whatsoever.

Among the many important buildings which this king erected or commenced was the Bastile, founded
in 1370, to replace the old Porte Saint-Antoine, and consisting at first of two towers, united
by a fortified gate; the Louvre, repaired and enlarged; the fortifications of the city; the
Hôtel Saint-Pol, the gardens of which descended to the Seine; the chapelle of Vincennes, and
several châteaux in the environs of the city. Nevertheless, and in spite of the encouragement
given by Charles V to letters, the capital and the nation shared in the general decadence of
the century, in morals, in intellect, and even in physical force. It has been estimated that
while the average duration of human life was thirty years during the Roman Empire, it had now
diminished to seventeen. The readers of Voltaire will remember that in The Man with the Forty
Écus his "geometer" gives it as twenty-two or twenty-three years for Paris, and contrives to
reduce this brief span to practically two or three years of active, enjoyable life,--ten years
off the twenty-three for the period of youthful immaturity, ten more for the decline of old
age, sleep, sickness, work, worry, etc.!

Duruy cites two instances of feminine peers of France. In 1378, the Duchesse d'Orléans writes
to excuse herself from coming to take her seat as a peer in the Parliament of Paris; the Duchesse
d'Artois, Mahaut, had been present at the coronation of Philippe V, and had supported, with
the other peers, the crown on the head of the king.

The need of funds was so pressing at the very outset of the following reign that the young
king, Charles VI, under the tutelage of his uncles, the dukes of Anjou, Burgundy, and Berry,
entered into serious negotiations with the bourgeoisie of the city of Paris with a view of
persuading them to accept a new tax on commodities. The people were obstinate in their refusal;
a statute forbade the imposition of any new duties without previous public proclamation, and,
in the actual condition of affairs, this proclamation was likely to lead to a popular outbreak.
On the last day of April, 1382, however, a public crier presented himself on horseback at the
Halles, where these proclamations were usually made, sounded his trumpet, and when he saw the
people assembled around him, lifted his voice and announced that the king's silverware had
been stolen and that a liberal reward would be paid for the discovery of the thieves. Then,
profiting by the general surprise and commotion, he proceeded: "I have still another proclamation
to make to you; to-morrow the new tax on produce will begin to be levied." After which he put
spurs to his horse, and disappeared at full speed!

Early the next morning the tax-collectors accordingly presented themselves at the Halles; one
of them claimed the percentage on a little cresson which an old woman had just sold, the old
woman raised an outcry, the unhappy collector was beaten and thrown in the gutter, another
was dragged from the very altar of the church of Saint-Jacques-l'Hôpital and killed, and the
mob rushed to the Hôtel de Ville, where it was known that Charles V had caused to be deposited
the maillets or mallets of lead which he had had made in anticipation of an attack by the English,
and armed themselves with these weapons,--whence their name of Maillotins. But the new tax
was withdrawn, and the popular fury speedily subsided.

When the young king attained his majority, in 1388, the former councillors of his father, the
petty nobles, or marmousets, as the great seigneurs contemptuously called them, resumed the
direction of affairs, but, with all their prudence and ability, were quite unable to restrain
the prodigal wastefulness of the prince. The entry of the queen, Isabeau de Bavière, whom he
had married three years before, was made the occasion of extravagant processions, pomps, diversions,
and mystery-plays in Paris, as was the marriage of his brother, the Duc d'Orléans, with the
beautiful Valentine Visconti, and the conferring of the order of knighthood on the children
of the Duc d'Anjou. When, finally, worn out with dissipation, with the license of unlimited
power from the age of twelve, the king went mad, his uncles resumed the regency and the marmouset
ministry prudently sought safety in flight. The Duc de Bourgogne, Philippe le Hardi, died in
1404; his son, Jean sans Peur, wished to succeed to his father's authority in the State, but
found himself opposed at every turn by the Duc d'Orléans; the old Duc de Berry interposed and
effected a formal reconciliation; three days later the Duc d'Orléans was assassinated in the
Rue Vieille-du-Temple by the bravos of Jean sans Peur, who did not fear to do murder on a prince
of the blood.

In the civil war which followed, the Parisians profited at first by the concessions which were
made to them in order to secure their support,--open opposition to all new taxes, restoration
of their old free constitution, the right to elect their prévôt and other officers, to organize
their bourgeois militia under officers elected by themselves, even that of holding fiefs like
the nobles, with the accompanying privileges, provided they were well born, and of Paris. The
nobility, on the contrary, were even less disposed to pardon him for thus seeking the aid of
the populace than for having compromised the seignorial inviolability by laying violent hands
on a brother of the king. The Comte d'Armagnac, father-in-law of one of the sons of the Duc
d'Orléans, placed himself at the head of the opposing party; both parties made advances to
the English to secure their aid on different occasions, but it was the Armagnacs who fought
Henry V at Azincourt and sustained that disastrous defeat; the Duc de Bourgogne secured possession
of the queen and proclaimed her regent; negotiating first with one and then with another, he
finally ended by being assassinated in his turn by Tanneguy Duchâtel, prévôt of Paris, and
other servants of the dauphin, on the bridge of Montereau, at the confluence of the Yonne and
the Seine.

"That which neither Crécy nor Poitiers nor Azincourt had accomplished, the assassination on
the bridge of Montereau did,--it gave the crown of France to a king of England." In the following
year, 1420, the treaty of Troyes, concluded between Henry V, the Queen Isabeau, and the new
Duc de Bourgogne, Philippe le Bon, recognized the King of England as regent and heir to the
throne of France, he having married Isabeau's daughter, Catherine of France. "All the provisions
of this treaty were read publicly, in a general assembly held by the Parliament on the 29th
of April. The governor of Paris, the chancellor, the prévôt, the presidents, counsellors, échevins,
merchants, and bourgeois, all were unanimous in accepting this treaty." On the 30th of May
it was formally ratified in another general assembly, and on the 1st of December the bourgeois
turned out in great state and with much pomp to receive the two kings, who entered, walking
side by side, Charles VI on the right. "The streets were richly decorated and tapestried from
the Porte Saint-Denis to Notre-Dame, 'and all the people cried Noël! to show their joy.'" The
English king, with his two brothers, the dukes of Clarence and of Bedford, were lodged at the
Louvre; the poor French king, at the Hôtel Saint-Pol, and the Duc de Bourgogne, in his Hôtel
d'Artois.

The madness of Charles VI was intermittent, but apparently hopeless; it had been greatly aggravated
by all the tragic circumstances of his reign, including the terrible bal des ardents, in which
he had been saved from being burned to death, with several other maskers disguised as satyrs,
by the coolness and courage of the Duchesse de Berry. The queen, Isabeau, was openly dissolute;
on one occasion, the king, returning from visiting her at Vincennes, encountered her lover,
the chevalier Louis de Bois-Bourdon, had him arrested on the spot, put to the question, sewed
up in a sack, and thrown in the river. Probably with a view to her own security, she had placed
in the king's bed-chamber "a fair young Burgundian," Odette de Champdivers, and it was this
demoiselle who, in his periods of frenzy, was alone able to soothe and persuade him. It is
related that they played cards together in his saner moments, this amusement having recently
been brought into fashion again. Even the powers of magic were tried in vain to effect his cure.

Nevertheless, few monarchs seem to have been so sincerely mourned. "All the people who were
in the streets and at the windows wept and cried as if each one had seen the death of the one
he loved the best. 'Ah! très cher prince, never shall we have another so good! Never shall
we see thee again! Cursed be Death! We shall have no longer anything but war, since thou hast
left us. Thou goest to repose, we remain in tribulations and sorrow.'"

Queen Isabeau, in addition to disinheriting her son in favor of her daughter, was held responsible
by her contemporaries for setting the fashion in wasteful and absurd extravagance in dress.
The ladies wore the houppelande, the cotte hardie, tight around the girdle, and looped up their
sleeves excessivement to show this cotte hardie; they also had openings in the surcoat to show
the girdle. These openings the preachers called "windows of hell." "They made their stomachs
prominent, and seemed, all of them, enceinte: this mode they clung to for forty years." "The
more the misery increased, the more the luxury augmented; at the Hôtel de Bohême, inhabited
by Louis d'Orléans, there were chambers hung with cloth of gold à roses, embroidered with velours
vermeil, of satin vermeil embroidered with arbalists, of cloth of gold embroidered with mills....
And, during this time, the grass grew in the streets, say the historians of the period, the
wolves entered the city at night by the river; the imagination of the people, exalted, saw
already in Paris a new Babylon, the ruins of which would presently become the repair of the
beasts of prey."

When the remains of what might well seem to be the last of the kings of France were interred
at Saint-Denis, a herald-at-arms recommended the soul of the defunct to the prayers of the
assembled multitude; then he cried: "Vive Henri de Lancastre, Roi de France et d'Angleterre!"
At this cry, all the officers present reversed their maces, rods, and swords, to signify that
they considered themselves as no longer exercising their offices. The English king was not
crowned in Paris till nine years later (1431), but his representative, the Duke of Bedford,
left his residence in the Hôtel de la Rivière, Rue de Paradis, and Rue du Chaume (to-day the
Rues des Francs-Bourgeois and des Archives), to establish himself in the Palais de la Cité.
On the 8th of September, 1429, Jeanne d'Arc, having brought about the crowning of the sluggish
Charles VII at Reims in the preceding July, presented herself at the head of a French corps
under the orders of the Duc d'Alençon before the northern walls of Paris, and herself directed
the assault on the Porte Saint-Honoré. She surmounted the first entrenchment, constructed in
front of the pig market there established on the Butte des Moulins,--afterward suppressed to
make way for the opening of the Avenue de l'Opéra,--drove in the English, sounded the depth
of the moat with the staff of her banner, and fell wounded with an arbalist shaft through her
thigh, in front of what is now the entrance to the Théâtre-Français. The chronicles of the
time differ as to whether the French chiefs failed to support her through jealousy, or fought
with acharnement to save her from falling into the hands of the besieged. The attempt was abandoned,
and the Maid was carried to Saint-Denis to have her wound dressed.

In Paris, opinions were very much divided, and even those who favored the French king felt
that they were too much compromised to open their gates to him without some stipulations. Two
years later, Jeanne having been duly burned at Rouen, and the consecration of Charles VII,
at Reims, "to which he had been conducted by an agent of the demon, being in itself and of
its own nature null and void," the English monarch entered his city of Paris to receive an
orthodox and irreprehensible coronation. As he rode by the Hôtel Saint-Pol, he perceived the
Queen Isabeau on the balcony; he doffed his hat to her and she returned his salute, then burst
into tears. On the 17th of December, he was anointed and crowned in Notre-Dame by Cardinal
Winchester--which gave great offence to the Bishop of Paris--and surrounded entirely by English
lords; there was no liberation of prisoners, no largess to the people, no removal of taxes.
"A bourgeois who marries off his daughter would have done the thing better," said the Parisians.
However, he manifested some desire to secure their good-will by confirming a number of their
minor privileges, their right to acquire titles of nobility, etc.

The discontent grew among the citizens; no coronation of a king of France could be as sacred
as that celebrated according to the ancient ceremonial at Reims; the English garrison felt
constrained to take such strong measures of precaution as to forbid any one to leave the city
without passports, or to mount upon the ramparts under penalty of being hanged. It was not
till the 29th of May, 1436, that six citizens, whose names history has preserved, contrived
to open the Porte Saint-Jacques, in the quarter of the Halles, to their countrymen outside;
the Constable of France, Arthur de Bretagne, Comte de Richemont, with the Comte de Dunois and
some two thousand horsemen, were waiting for them; the first twenty men introduced through
a little postern gate opened the great doors and let down the drawbridge, all the cavalry trooped
in without meeting the least resistance. "Then the Maréchal de l'Isle-Adam mounted upon the
wall, unfurled the banner of France, and cried 'Ville gagnée!' [City taken!]."

Captain Willoughby, who commanded the English, finding the whole populace rising against him,
was compelled to take refuge in the Bastile with some thousand or twelve hundred men, and soon
after capitulated and left the city by the Porte Saint-Antoine, pursued by the hootings of
the people. Charles VII made his triumphal entry in the following November, and was received
with abundant demonstrations of welcome. It was, however, a city devastated by pestilence and
famine and with troops of wolves in all the suburbs. Bands of brigands, largely made up of
unpaid soldiers, and called, from their outrages, escorcheurs, traversed the country and the
environs and were more feared even than the wolves. The universal demoralization caused by
the war had removed all bounds to the cruelty of the nobles, and the chronicles of the time
are replete with murder, open and secret. "The Duc de Bretagne caused the death of his brother;
the Duc de Gueldre, that of his father; the Sire de Giac, that of his wife; the Comtesse de
Foix, that of her sister; the King of Aragon, that of his son."

"Above this feudal aristocracy was placed another aristocracy, that of the princes, which royalty
had elevated with its own hands, in constituting vast appanages for the royaux de France, the
title given to the sons, the brothers, the relatives of the king. Hence those powerful houses
of Bourgogne, of Orléans, of Anjou, of Bourbon, which joined to the spirit of independence
of the ancient feudality the pride and the pretensions of a royal origin, and which said by
one of its members: 'I esteem so much the kingdom of France, that, in the place of one king,
I should like to see six.'"

Valuing only that which was acquired by the sword, or professing to do so, this feudal aristocracy
affected to look down with disdain upon the great merchants and bankers,--whose large fortunes,
indeed, were not always acquired with the strictest probity,--and they viewed with indifference
the king's infamous robbery of his minister, Jacques Cœur, which, with his abandonment of Jeanne
d'Arc, constitute the blackest stains upon his character. The gens de petit estat, the councillors
of humble origin, with which the king surrounded himself, and who served him so well, were
also a source of offence to these proud nobles. M. G. du Fresne de Beaucourt, in his exhaustive
history of this monarch, in six octavo volumes, dwells at length on the constantly increasing
influence in the grand council, during the period of national reorganization in the latter
part of the reign, of these humble councillors. "And it was, above all, the people of France
themselves," says M. Funck-Brentano, "who, in the midst of all the secular struggles, acquired,
little by little, the sentiment of its unity, of the common solidarity of the public welfare.
The day on which they were found grouped, admirable in their energy and devotion, around the
royal throne which, for them, was the concentrating point of these sentiments, the cause of
the foreign enemy was lost."

Son though he was "of an imbecile father and a debauched mother," Charles VII did not lack
for intelligence, and in his diplomacy, directed during the first part of his reign against
a foreign enemy and, in the latter part, against a domestic one, the Burgundians, he gave proof
of the highest qualities. He had a taste for letters, and was--"unique, doubtless, in this
among the kings of France"--a good Latin scholar. His mistresses, of whom Agnès Sorel was only
the first, were imposed upon his wife, Marie d'Anjou, and upon his court with unusual effrontery.
The queen was even obliged to distribute gifts to the "filles joyeuses who followed the court
in its peregrinations." This moral depravation, naturally, extended downward to the whole court.
M. Brentano, who is one of the few French historians who venture to lay disrespectful hands
on the grand Roi-soleil, says: "Charles VII was the original source of the crapulous debauchery
of the last Valois; he traced the way for the crimes of Louis XIV, and the turpitudes of Louis
XV." This, although the higher clergy of the reigns both of Charles and of Louis Quatorze did
not fail in their duty, and did denounce openly from the pulpit the sins of these all-powerful
monarchs.

On his re-entry into Paris, Charles did not take up his residence in the Hôtel Saint-Pol, the
sorrowful lodging of his father, but in the Tournelles, which he made a "delightful sojourn,"
and where his successors installed themselves until François II, who established his dwelling
in the Louvre. In the time of Louis XI, however, the Tournelles partook of the sordid and melancholy
character of its master. "The king lived there alone and stingily," says the historian Michelet.
"He had had the odd taste to retain some servitors whom he had brought from Brabant; he lived
there as if in exile.... As soon as he was king, he assumed the pilgrim's habit, the cape of
coarse gray cloth, with the gaiters of a travelling costume, and he took them off only at his
death.... If he came out of the Tournelles, it was in the evening, like an owl, in his melancholy
gray cape. His gossip, companion, and friend (he had a friend) was a certain Bische, whom he
had formerly set as a spy on his father, Charles VII, and whom afterward he kept near the Comte
de Charolais, to induce him to betray his father, the Duc de Bourgogne."

The king had, indeed been one of the worst of sons,--at the period of his accession to the
throne he was almost in open rebellion against his father, and had sought refuge at the court
of Burgundy. The great nobles consequently looked with complacency upon his coming into power,
and were very far from foreseeing that through him their privileges and authority throughout
the kingdom were to be finally ruined. During his reign, the capital prospered,--"the king
made of it his refuge, his citadel and his arsenal for all his enterprises against the feudality."
In one respect, he followed his father's example and even bettered it,--his counsellors were
chosen by preference among the tiers état, and frequently even among men of base extraction.
When occasion required, he did not disdain any of the arts of the demagogue: on entering Paris
after the indecisive battle of Montlhéry, with the Burgundians, almost under the walls of the
capital, he took supper with the principal ladies of the city in the house of Charles de Melun,
and so moved them with the recital of the dangers he had undergone that all the dames bourgeoises
wept. He was in the habit of visiting familiarly the principal bourgeois, seating himself at
their table or inviting them to his own, and interesting himself in their private affairs.
By this means, he endeavored to ascertain their opinions concerning his political measures,
and the amount of obedience which they were likely to render to them. In 1471, "he honored
the city by starting the fire with his own hand in the Place de Grève, the evening of Saint
John the Baptist." On a mast, twenty-five mètres in height and surrounded by combustibles of
all kinds, was hung a great basket containing a dozen black cats and a fox, symbols of the
devil. "The more the grilled cats cried, the more the people laughed."

For all his craftiness, "he had not reigned four years when all the world was against him,"
says Duruy. "The people forced to provide, by paying a great many imposts, for the necessities
of the government which they did not as yet comprehend, the bourgeoisie wounded in its particular
interests, which it did not know how to sacrifice to the general interests, the clergy menaced
in its property, the lesser nobility in its rights and in its dearest habits, the higher aristocracy
in its pretensions to sovereignty,--all these classes, so widely diverse, so often hostile
one to another, found themselves for the moment quite in accord upon one point,--the necessity
of limiting the royal authority." The Ligue du Bien public was formed by the great nobles through
compassion for the miseries of the kingdom "under the discord and piteous government of Louis
XI." Thus threatened by the aristocracy, it was a question of the utmost importance for the
king to retain his capital; he wrote to the Parisians in the most cajoling phrases before Montlhéry,
and after, hastened to arm the bourgeois and accepted, as an aid and support, a council of
six bourgeois, six members of the Parliament, and six clerks of the University.

The festivals and processions in the streets of Paris were not so numerous in this reign as
in many of the preceding ones, but some of them have remained memorable. On his entry into
the city on the occasion of his accession to the throne, August 30, 1461, he was richly dressed
in white satin, and rode between the old Duc de Bourgogne and the Comte de Charolais. Over
the Porte Saint-Denis was the representation of a ship, "emblem of the arms of Paris (which
are, gules, a ship équipé, argent, on a sea of the same; au chef cousu d'argent, sown with
fleurs-de-lis d'or). From this ship descended two little angels, who placed a crown upon the
head of the king. The fountain of Ponceau ran wine; and at this fountain three beautiful maids,
quite nude, represented sirens; 'and this was a very pleasant thing,' adds the chronicler,
Jean de Troyes; 'they discoursed little motets and bergerettes.'" Other demonstrations, in
the fashion of the time, were given at other points of the route; all the streets through which
the king passed were hung with rich tapestries, and when he arrived at the Pont-au-Change,
the bird merchants of Paris launched in the air "more than two hundred dozen birds of all kinds."

A very good painter, M. Tattegrain, in one of his recent envois to the annual Salon, has represented
with great detail and much historical accuracy the incident of the three pretty sirens, quite
nude. According to his story, they were only bared to the waist, and the king, very gallantly,
checked the procession and rode out from under his canopy to hear their motets and bergerettes.

On the 15th of May, 1468, there was a fine tilting at the Hôtel des Tournelles between the
gentlemen of Paris and those of Normandy; "they were valiant champions, superbly apparelled
in hacquetons embossed with gold." Of the four Norman chevaliers who came expressly for this
occasion, three were wounded, so that "all the honor of the jousts remained with those of Paris."
On the 19th of November, the conclusion of the treaty of Péronne, between the king and the
Duc de Bourgogne, was announced by trumpets in all the public squares of the city, and popular
rejoicings ordered; as also for the birth of the dauphin, afterward Charles VIII, June 30,
1470, and the victory of Henry of Lancaster, King of England, over his competitor, Edward.
These two events, the king directed, should be celebrated by a cessation of work of all kind
for three days, and public prayers. Not long afterward, the queen of Henri VI arrived in Paris
with her son, the Prince of Wales, and was received, by order of the king, with all the honors
due her rank.

Amidst all these splendors it was Louis XI himself who frequently presented the reverse side
of the medal. The registers of the Chambre des Comptes mention, about the time of the English
queen's visit, a disbursement of twenty sols for the insertion of a pair of new sleeves in
an old pourpoint of the king's wearing. He was considered to have gotten much the worse of
the treaty of Péronne with Charles the Bold, and he had a mistress named Perrette, so that
the Parisians trained their parrots, magpies, and other speaking birds to ask Perrette to give
them a drink, among other ribald phrases. Consequently, the king issued a royal commission
"to a young man of Paris named Henry Perdriel, in the said city of Paris" to take and seize
"all magpies, jays, and chevrettes being in cages or otherwise, and being private property,
in order to bring them all before the king, and have written down and registered the place
where he had taken the aforesaid birds and also all that they knew how to say, as: larron;
paillard; fils de p---- ; va hors, va; Perrette, donne-moi à boire, and several other words
which the said birds know very well how to say and which have been taught them." In this same
year, 1468, he caused to be confiscated in Paris and brought to him at Amboise all the deer,
does, and cranes which the rich bourgeois were in the habit of keeping in their gardens. "This
dispensed with the necessity of his buying them," adds the historian.

A Bohemian periodical, the Nation Czech, has recently published a condensation of the very
curious journal kept by a certain Seigneur Léon de Rozmital, brother of the queen Joan, wife
of Georges Podiébrad, King of Bohemia, during his travels in France in the year 1465. At Meung-sur-Loire
he met Louis XI, who received him with much honor, though he appears to have quite declined
to listen to the seigneur's proposals of a treaty of alliance between the two nations; he accompanied
the king to Kand (perhaps the château of Candes, Indre-et-Loire), where he was presented to
the queen and all her train. Her Majesty received him cordially, "and every one kissed him
on the mouth. It was the king who had ordered it, and who wished it so. Afterward, the queen
gave her hand to every chevalier and was very gracious with all." Louis invited his guest to
come to visit him in Paris, but the latter fails to record his doing so.

In the year 1470, it may be mentioned, Ulric Gering, Michel Friburger, and Martin Krantz set
up the first printing-press, in the college of the Sorbonne, and printed a book: Epistolæ Gasparini
Pargamensis (Letters of Gasparin de Bergamo). Other works appeared, the first of which was
a Bible, offered to Louis XI in this same year.

The universal demoralization of manners resulting from the long wars against the English and
between the Burgundians and Armagnacs, the English occupation of the city, the presence in
the capital of a multitude of drunken and debauched soldiers, did not serve to check the extravagance
and license among the wealthier bourgeois against which the clergy thundered in vain. One of
the boldest of these preachers was a Cordelier named Olivier Maillard, who appealed to the
multitude by the freedom of his language and his images too frequently borrowed from the vernacular,
and who--although he bore the title of prédicateur du roi--did not hesitate to denounce the
monarch himself. He accordingly received an intimation that if these attacks did not cease
very promptly, he would be tied up in a sack and thrown in the river. "The king is master,"
replied Maillard, "but go and say to him that I would go quicker to paradise by water than
he with his post-horses." A species of crusade was organized by the mendicant friars against
the extravagance of the costumes and the indecency of the manners; the evil had assumed such
proportions that to be modestly and decently dressed was to be, in the language of the people
as well as in that of the preachers, "clothed without sin." "To the ferocity, to the barbarity
of feudal times had succeeded the vices of a semi-civilization, whilst waiting till manners
and customs should refine themselves under the action of the Renaissance."

One of the first acts of the new king, Charles VIII, was to hang Olivier le Dain, valet de
chambre, barber, counsellor, and, finally, ambassador of his father. His property was confiscated
and given to the Duc d'Orléans. This act afforded a lively satisfaction to the Parisians and
to the nation at large. Another favorite of the late monarch, Jean de Doyat, was somewhat more
fortunate, though he was arrested, publicly whipped in the streets, pilloried at the Halles,
where his tongue was pierced with a hot iron and one ear cut off, then sent down to Auvergne,
his native province, flogged again, robbed of the other ear, and all his goods confiscated.
Later, however, the king quashed the judgment and restored him his property, if not his severed
members.

By his marriage with Anne de Bretagne, December 13, 1491, this monarch united the last of the
great fiefs of France to the crown, and disappointed several powerful foreign suitors, English,
German, and Spanish. On the 9th of the following February the royal couple entered the capital
in state, and the stately and haughty carriage of the Breton princess was greatly admired by
the populace. The bourgeois and merchants of various conditions who rode, two by two, to meet
her had all "magnificent costumes, robes of satin cramoisi, of damask gris cendre, or of scarlet
cloth on a violet ground. They had had made a dais the canopy of which was of cloth of gold,
embossed, sown with lilies and roses. They carried it alternately from the Porte Saint-Denis
as far as Notre-Dame."

When the king set off on his ill-advised expedition to conquer the kingdoms of Naples and Sicily,
he was very short of funds and wished to borrow a hundred thousand écus from the Parisians,
but met with a flat refusal. Consequently, when a deputation of the notables of the city took
the liberty of remonstrating with him concerning this Italian war, he received them very badly
and requested them to keep their advice for themselves, as he had no need of it. But, after
having conquered the Milanais and lost it very soon afterward, he applied again to his city
of Paris for a vessel of war; Jean de Ganay, president of the Parliament, presented to the
prévôt of the merchants and to the échevins at the Hôtel de Ville the letter which the king
had written on this subject. In order to deliberate on it weightily, they assembled all the
councillors, and a resolution was adopted that the Messieurs of the Parliament and of the Chambre
des Comptes and the Bishop of Paris meet in a general assembly at the Hôtel de Ville. But the
progress of political events having rendered this vessel unnecessary, nothing came of all these
deliberations.

Louis XII, on his accession to the throne in 1498, resolved to cross the Alps in his turn,
and on his solemn entry into Paris after his coronation an elaborate machine was contrived
to delicately flatter his pretensions to Genoa and Milan, and appear in the royal procession.
This consisted of an apparatus mounted on wheels, in the form of a terrace, on which was seen
a porcupine, moving all his quills at once, and a young virgin, habited in Genoese fashion
and throned on a seat of cloth-of-gold cramoisi. But unluckily the machine would not function,
and after remaining immovable in one place, finally disappeared "in great mortification." The
Parisians seem never to have lost their fondness for processions and displays, and were always
ready to welcome a new king with the firm belief that all their griefs would speedily be remedied
under the new régime. As there was a possibility of the widowed queen, Anne de Bretagne, carrying
her rich dower, now returned to her, out of the kingdom, Louis XII secured a divorce from his
wife Jeanne, third child of Louis XI, and so very plain in countenance that her royal father
could not endure the sight of her. Thus it happened that la Bretonne made her second solemn
entrance into Paris as a newly-wed queen of France, in 1504; and at her death, ten years later,
the king "during a whole week did nothing but weep."

Her obsequies, at Saint-Denis and Notre-Dame, gave rise to a scandalous discussion over the
possession of all the objects which had figured in them. The abbot and the monks of Saint-Denis
demanded the restitution of the dais, of the effigy and of the garments of the queen, of the
cloth of gold, of the velvet which had served to decorate the chapel, and of all the offerings
made by the assistants. The nuns of La Saussaye-lez-Villejuif wished that there should be given
them all the linen of the late queen, body linen and table linen, the ornaments of gold and
of silver, and all the mules, palfreys, horses of state and others which had drawn the chariots,
with all the harness and the collars. The grand equerry of the queen, Louis de Hangest, pretended,
for his part, that the horses, the canopy, and the cloth of gold all pertained to him in virtue
of his office, and, whilst awaiting the decision, he insisted that the horses, chariots, and
harness should at least be turned over to him provisionally in order that he might conduct
the ladies and the pages of the late queen. But it was feared that he would keep them under
any conditions. The king-at-arms and the heralds wanted all the mouldings and all the stuffs
of velvet and of silk which were on the walls of the chapelle ardente; and the chaplains of
the cardinal, the sum of all the offerings made both at Notre-Dame and at Saint-Denis. The
Parliament devoted a week to endeavoring to bring the disputants into accord, and in the meanwhile
ordered an appraisement of all the horses, carriages, etc., which were confided to the grand
equerry, and all the linen, ornaments, dais, etc., were sequestered and placed in the hands
of Jean du Val, receiver of pledges, and of Ragerin Le Lieur, merchant bourgeois.

In addition to his grief over his wife's death, the king found himself very much embarrassed
in his finances till his good city of Paris came to his relief with a donation of twenty thousand
livres. He had even sold his vessels of gold and silver, for the sum of two hundred thousand
livres. Being thus relieved, with the inconstancy of men, he began to think of another wife,
and in September, 1514, the magistrates of the city went out in state to meet the ambassadors
of England who had arrived to negotiate a match with the Princess Mary, daughter of their sovereign.
For this fickleness (which, however, was partially dictated by political considerations) Louis
XII was destined to pay dearly; he was fifty-three years of age and his bride was eighteen;
to please her, he changed all his habits of life, and even the hours of his repasts. He had
been in the habit of "dining" at eight o'clock, and he now dined at noon; he had been accustomed
to go to bed at six o'clock in the evening, and now it was often midnight when he retired.
So that he died at the Palais des Tournelles on the first of the following January, 1515, and
the death-criers, sounding their bells, paraded the streets, calling aloud: "The good king
Louis, father of the people, is dead!"

It was the States-General of the nation, speaking through the representative of Paris, which
had given him this fine name, Père du peuple, and which, by his care for their interests, his
economy in the general administration, his suppression of abuses, he had well deserved. "The
third part of the kingdom," says a contemporary, "was opened to cultivation in twelve years,
and for one important merchant that had been known in Paris, in Lyons, or in Rouen, there could
be found fifty under Louis XII, who made it more easy to go to Rome, to Naples, or to London
than formerly to Lyons or Geneva." In this intelligent administration, he was greatly aided
by the cardinal, Georges d'Amboises, who "for twenty-seven years remained less his minister
than his friend," and who shared with him the well-earned approval of the people. "Laissez
faire à Georges" (Let George alone and he'll do it) marked the general appreciation.

That curious custom of the Middle Ages, which testifies so strongly to the impotence and unjustness
of the laws and the universal prevalence of sudden outbreaks of passion and crime, the right
of asylum, was greatly modified in Paris by Louis XII. In the porches of the churches, or,
if they had none, within the space of thirty feet of their walls on all sides, and in the cemeteries
adjoining them, the hunted criminal was safe. The king suppressed this privilege for the churches
and convents of Saint-Jacques-la-Boucherie, Saint-Merri, Notre-Dame, l'Hôtel-Dieu, the Abbaye
Saint-Antoine, the Carmelites of the Place Maubert, and the Grands-Augustins. François I extended
this reform still further; his ordinance of 1539 abolished all places of immunity for debts
or other civil matters, and decreed that any person could be apprehended anywhere, provided
that, if his place of refuge should be justified, he should be returned to it. This, however,
never was done. In 1789, there were in Paris a few privileged localities remaining,--the royal
residences, the hôtels of the ambassadors, and the hôtel of the grand prior of Malta, the Temple.
By an article of the Code de procédure civile, it was forbidden to arrest debtors in the buildings
consecrated to worship and during the religious exercises; and under the Second Empire a debtor
could not be arrested in the garden of the Tuileries. With the abolishment of imprisonment
for debt, these regulations repealed themselves.

In an almost equally important matter, that of the hours of the three meals of the day, a great
change also took place during this reign. The courtiers did not generally follow the king in
his transferral of le dîner from eight o'clock in the morning (according to the custom established
at the beginning of the reign) to noon, but the people seem to have adopted the new hour. The
wars in Italy brought to the French table for the first time the pâtes of that country, vermicelli,
macaroni, semoule, the lassagnes and others. For women in childbed and for consumptives were
reserved the bouillons or "restaurants,"--these were composed of meat, of animals or of chickens,
cut up very fine and distilled in an alembic with peeled barley, dried roses, cinnamon, coriander,
and Damascus raisins. One of the most succulent of these bouillons was called restaurant divin.

Under François I, the dinner-hour was established at nine o'clock in the morning, and the supper-hour
at five in the evening. It is true that the hour of rising was also most unreasonably early
according to modern ideas.

(To rise at five, to dine at nine, to sup at five, to go to bed at nine, will make you live
to ninety-nine.)

The national menu was further increased by contributions from Italy and from domestic producers,
pâtes, cheeses, and some new fruits, apricots and plums; the latter, still a great favorite
with the French, was called la reine Claude after the daughter of Louis XII. With the good
living came an increase in drunkenness among all, lower classes, bourgeois, courtiers, and
soldiers,--the latter, indeed, to such an extent that the king felt constrained to issue edicts
threatening this growing vice with the severest penalties: for the first offence, imprisonment;
for the second, flogging in private; for the third, flogging in public; and the hardened offender
ran a great risk of losing his ears and being banished from the kingdom.

With the reign of François I began the ancien régime,--"that is to say, a government in which
the subjects have no guarantee against oppression, even the most iniquitous, and the prince,
no obstacle to his will, even the most capricious." In 1527, the president of the Parliament
of Paris declared openly that the king was above the law, though he added that his sovereign
will should be regulated by equity and reason. The nobility, reduced to a state merely of revenues
and titles, were no longer the great feudal powers of the Dark Ages, "and at the sumptuous
court which François opened to them they learned to ruin themselves and to obey." In the middle
of this century, there was only one great feudal house remaining, that of Bourbon-Navarre,
the head of which, Antoine, was quite without influence. Below were the grand seigneurs, the
Montmorencys, the Guises, the La Trémouilles, the Châtillons, and others, but deprived of all
the rights of the powerful feudal vassals of the king of former times; the clergy had been
reduced to a condition of dependence upon the king by the concordat of 1516, which made him
the unique dispenser of benefices; the tiers état--which included "the men of letters, who
are called men of the long robe; the merchants, the artisans, the people, and the peasants"--had
long been accustomed to obedience. "There had formerly been only manants (rustics, clowns),
seigneurs, and fiefs; there is now a people, a king, and a France."

"If the accession of François I was a great occasion for the men," says M. de Lescure, "it
was still more so for the ladies. In fact, it might be said that they ascended the throne with
the new king. Admitted for the first time to the banquets, to the tourneys of the Hôtel des
Tournelles, this hardy innovation gave the measure of their new destinies and of the credit
reserved by the most gallant of monarchs for the fairest half of the human species." Unfortunately,
the king was not inclined to make any distinctions among these new ornaments to his court,
and while his predecessors had made strenuous efforts to reduce the license of manners, we
find him issuing such edicts as this:

"François, by the grace of God, King of France, to our friend and loyal treasurer of our exchequer,
Maître Jehan Duval, salutation and dilection. We desire, and we command you, that from the
deniers of our aforesaid exchequer you pay, give, and deliver ready-money to Cécile de Viefville,
dame des filles de joie, attending our court, the sum of forty-five livres tournois, making
the value of twenty écus of gold sol at forty-five sols apiece, of which we have made and do
make by these presents donation, as much for her as for the other women and girls of her vocation,
to divide among themselves as they may advise, and this for their right for the month of May
passed...."

The court of the French kings itself is dated by their historians from this reign. Before François
I, it did not exist. "Grave councillors only surrounded Louis XII, and the chaste Anne de Bretagne
authorized around her only rare and tranquil pleasures. François I wished to be followed always
by a troop so numerous that there were counted around the royal residence rarely less than
six thousand and sometimes as many as eighteen thousand horses." By the brilliancy of its fêtes,
this court attracted to itself the châtelaines, up to this time forgotten in the depths of
their feudal castles. "At the beginning," says Mézeray, "this had an excellent effect, this
amiable sex having introduced into the court politeness and courtesy, and imparting lively
impulses of generosity to those whose souls were more nobly constituted. But the manners and
customs became speedily corrupted; the offices, the benefices, were distributed according to
the whims of the women, and they were the cause of the adoption of very pernicious maxims by
the government."

The revival of the arts brought about by the Renaissance, and which François I had the intelligence
to appreciate and encourage, and the somewhat greater sense of security in the body politic,
combined to give to this court, and to the wealthy citizens of the capital, such extravagant
luxury of dress and ornament that even this pleasure-loving monarch felt constrained to promulgate
sumptuary laws on various occasions, an example which was followed by his son and successor,
Henry II. The edict of 1538 proscribed chains of gold of too great weight for financiers and
men of affairs, and it was intimated to them that it would be better not "to make their daughters
too handsome and too rich when they married them." In 1543, the tissues of gold and silver
were forbidden for men, with the exception of the relatives of the monarch, and this edict
was renewed, four years later, by Henri II, greatly amended and amplified and extended to all,
high and low, excepting the ladies in the queen's suite and the king's sister. In 1549, it
was renewed, with still greater detail concerning the costumes of the two sexes.

The abuse of masks was of long standing, Charles VI having been addicted to their use, and
in 1514, under Louis XII, the Parlement directed that all these false visages in the city,
wherever found, should be collected and burned, and that, by order of the king, no more should
be worn. During the captivity of François I in Madrid, the members of the Parlement set the
example of reducing their style of living, limiting the number of their horses, etc.; and so
great was the suspicion and distrust at this time, that a special edict was directed against
the mysterious strangers who were seen in the streets of the city, all with long beards and
carrying heavy sticks. The use of the latter was strictly forbidden, and the wearing of the
former, "which seemed to conceal some pernicious designs against the peace of the State." Among
the minor social revolutions which this monarch effected, in consequence of a wound received
on his head, was that in the manner of wearing the hair and beard, which had prevailed since
the time of Louis VII; François I reversed the ancient custom, and cut his hair short, but
not his beard.

Paris, which had celebrated his accession with even more than the usual ceremonial, jousts,
and tourneys, was greatly alarmed at the threat of the Connétable de Bourbon to march upon
it with the allied forces of the King of England and of Charles V. The king, to reassure them,
sent them the Sire de Brion, who declared to them that their monarch "had so much consideration
for the city of Paris that he would sacrifice himself rather than allow it to be taken, that
he was willing to expose his life in order to defend it, to live and to die with the Parisians,
and that, if he could not come to it in person, he would send to it his wife, his children,
and his mother, and all that he had and possessed, persuaded as he was that when he had lost
the rest of the kingdom, he would readily recover all his losses if he could preserve Paris;
that he had the intention to bring to it ten thousand Swiss, that he was aware of the attachment
which the Parlement and the city bore to his person, that he thanked them for it, and exhorted
them to continue a fidelity which was so useful to him."

All these fine words gave great pleasure to the citizens, and they were thrown into corresponding
consternation when the news was received, on the 7th of March, 1525, that he had been taken
prisoner at Pavia. His mother, Louise de Savoie, subordinated the evil traits of her character
to constitute herself an intelligent regent; and on the 14th of April, 1527, the king made
a triumphal re-entry into his capital after his release. Some doubts seem to have been entertained
as to the genuineness of the welcome, for, it is recorded, the prévôt of the merchants, the
échevins, and the school-masters were ordered to station, at a dozen points on the route of
the procession, groups of eighty or a hundred children, who were to cry enthusiastically: "Vive
le roi!" The quibbling by which François endeavored to justify his refusal to carry out the
provisions of the treaty of Madrid, for which he had left his two sons as hostages, deceived
no one; Charles V very justly proclaimed him a traitor and perjured, to which the king had
no better answer than that the emperor "lied in his throat," and that he would meet him in
the lists in single combat whenever he liked.

The ransom of the two young princes cost one million two hundred thousand écus, a sum which
both the king and his capital found it very difficult to raise. After the treaty of Cambrai,
in 1529, François endeavored to strengthen his position by foreign alliances, without any regard
for his standing as eldest son of the Church and persecutor of Protestants. He made terms with
Henry VIII of England, who had just broken with the Holy See; and he acquired the friendship
of the Pope by demanding for his son, afterward Henri II, the hand of Catherine de Médicis,
niece of the pontiff. He renewed the ancient friendship with the Scotch by giving his eldest
daughter, afterward Marie de Lorraine, to their king for wife. He even concluded a commercial
treaty, and one of alliance, offensive and defensive, with the Sultan Soliman, who promised
to aid, with all his power, his good friend, "the Padishah of France."

The first of the followers of Luther to be executed in Paris was burned alive on the Place
de Grève in March, 1525, and from this beginning the persecution went on, by direction of the
king, and even during his absence, with a cruelty only tempered by the occasional necessity
of conciliating the Protestant allies of the nation. The Sorbonne ordered that all the writings
of Luther should be publicly burned on the Place du Parvis Notre-Dame; and the king decreed
that all persons having in their possession any of the aforesaid heretical books should deliver
them up, under penalty of banishment and confiscation of all their property. For the dreary
spectacle of a nation and a city divided into hostile factions, struggling through barbarism
and crime to a political unity and a more beneficent civilization, we have now, just when these
goals seemed to be on the point of being attained, the spectacle of the same city and nation
rent by religious faction, and relapsing into an even crueller barbarism under all the specious
glitter of the civilization of the Renaissance.

It seemed at first, however, as though the doctrines of the Reform might find as stable a footing
in France as they did in Germany. Among the lettered and cultivated classes their conquests
were rapid; even in the court, the king's mother, Louise de Savoie, was not apparently disposed
to oppose them; his sister, Marguerite, Queen of Navarre, and his dear friend the Duchesse
d'Étampes, were more or less openly inclined in their favor; Clément Marot, the court poet,
translated the Psalms of David into French, which the Reformers sang at the Pré-aux-Clercs.
Two scholars greatly esteemed by François I, Lefebvre d'Étaples, who had begun six years before
Luther, and Louis de Berquin, considered by his contemporaries as "the wisest of the nobility,"
publicly supported the Reform doctrines. But the king, fearing in them an organized movement
against all authority, sacred or secular, soon withdrew his support; Berquin was burned at
the stake in the Place de Grève, and the Sorbonne even ventured to pursue, with open prosecution
and denunciation, and with hidden satire in a comedy represented at the Collége de Navarre,
the king's sister for having caused her brother to adopt a book of prayers translated into
French and for having caused to be printed a work of her own in verse: Le Miroir de l'Ame pécheresse.
The Parlement formally forbade the scholars of the Université to translate any of the sacred
books in Hebrew or Greek into French, as being a work of heresy. In 1546, Etienne Dolet, the
printer, was hanged and then burned, for impiety and atheism, on the Place Maubert where his
statue now stands. There was even invented, for the benefit of the heretics, a refinement of
cruelty on the ordinary horrors of the stake,--a pulley over the victim's head to which he
was suspended by chains, so that he could alternately be raised out of the flames and lowered
into them again. This was called l'estrapade.

This reign witnessed one of those unjust condemnations of the royal treasurer which had become
so common in French history. Jacques de Beaune, Seigneur de Semblançay, had succeeded his father
in this important post; Louis XII and François I alike had found every reason to repose the
utmost confidence in their financial officer, but the latter monarch, and his mother, set no
bounds to their lavish expenditure. In 1521, Lautrec, François's general in Italy, drew on
the royal treasury for four hundred thousand écus to pay his Swiss mercenaries. Semblançay
was about to send him the money, when he was summoned, according to the generally received
story, by Louise de Savoie, to hand it over to her, which he did. Owing to the defection of
his unpaid Swiss, Lautrec was defeated at the Bicoque and lost the Milanaise; when bitterly
reproached by the king for his ill-success, the facts in the case came out. The queen-mother
admitted having received the money and applied it to her own use, but she declared that it
was a portion of her private funds which she had previously deposited with the treasurer-general.
Semblançay was accordingly brought to trial, but, though he demonstrated that the king was
in his debt to the amount of three hundred thousand livres, he was condemned for peculation
and hung on the gibbet at Montfaucon, notwithstanding his blameless life and his seventy-two
years. "I have, indeed, deserved death," he said, "for having served men more faithfully than
God." Clément Marot, the court poet, wrote an epigram on the juge d'enfer who had condemned
this worthy servant of the king, and a popular tumult was averted with difficulty; two years
later, the clerks whom the queen-mother had employed to steal her receipts from the treasurer's
coffers confessed, he was declared innocent, and his confiscated property restored to his grandson.

Charles V, who more than once threatened Paris with his victorious arms,--in 1544 he was at
Château-Thierry, twenty-four leagues from the capital, and the affrighted citizens had begun
to transport themselves and their worldly goods to Orléans,--visited the city in peace, on
the 1st of January, 1540, on his way to Flanders to subdue the revolted burghers of Ghent.
François was strongly tempted to break his royal promises, as he had done once before, and
retain so valuable a prisoner, but confined himself to hints as to what he might do, and displayed
on the part of his court and his capital an ostentation of luxury almost equal to that of the
Field of the Cloth of Gold twenty years before, when he had met Henry VIII of England--"that
spot of blood and grease on the pages of history." The capital, indeed, was much embellished
and made more healthful under François I; the municipality were enjoined to pave and to clean
the streets, and the king caused to be drawn up minute regulations concerning the administration
of the city, the fountains, markets, slaughter-houses, gutters, etc. Nevertheless, the pest
prevailed throughout the whole of his reign. What the young queen did say, as she saw the French
coast sink below the horizon, was: "Adieu, chère France! je ne vous verrai jamais plus!"

The son of François I, who succeeded him, had all his father's defects and none of his good
qualities; his short reign is made memorable chiefly by his mistress, Diane de Poitiers, and
the unusual manner of his death. The former, whom he made Duchesse de Valentinois, and who
exercised in the court an authority quite denied to the queen, maintained over her royal lover,--she
had been the mistress of his father,--notwithstanding her forty-eight years of age, an ascendency,
by her beauty and her intelligence, which her contemporaries ascribed to an enchanted ring.
She was nearly sixty years of age, and the king was in his forty-first year when he wore her
colors, the black and white of widows, in the fatal tourney which he had commanded to celebrate
the wedding of his eldest daughter, Elisabeth de France, to Philippe II, King of Spain, already
twice widowed. The lists were set up across the Rue Saint-Antoine, from the Palais des Tournelles
almost to the Bastile, with great amphitheatres of seats on each side for the spectators. The
king, who excelled in bodily exercises, had distinguished himself during the first two days;
on the third, the jousting was completed, when he happened to see two lances still unbroken,
and commanded the captain of his guards, Gabriel, Comte de Montgomery, to take one of them
and tilt with him "for the love of the ladies." Montgomery protested, but the king insisted,
and as they came together the former did not lower his arm quickly enough, and the broken shaft
of his lance, glancing up from the king's breast-plate, lifted his visor and inflicted a mortal
wound over the right eye. Eleven days afterward, he died, and Montgomery paid with his life
for his inadvertence.

Henry "was not yet dead when Catherine de Médicis sent to Diane de Poitiers an order to restore
the crown-jewels, and to retire to one of her châteaux. 'What!' she exclaimed, 'is the king
dead?' 'No, madame, but he soon will be.' 'So long as he has a finger living,' she replied,
'I wish that my enemies should know that I do not fear them, and that I will not obey them
whilst he is alive. My courage is still invincible. But when he is dead, I no longer wish to
live after him.'

"She did live, however, but she made haste to leave Paris, and withdrew to her Château d'Anet."

The king's death occurred in the midst of his plans to resume the persecution of the heretics,
plans which he had so much at heart that he had not hesitated to conclude the unfortunate treaty
of Cateau-Cambrésis, in the same year, in order to be at liberty to engage in this crusade
against his own subjects. "Sire," said his generals, Guise and Brissac, as the treaty was signed,
"you are giving away in one day what could not be taken from you in thirty years of reverses."
But Henri "was more religious than the Pope," for, the sovereign pontiff having sent the Parisians
a bull by which he granted them permission to eat butter, cheese, and eggs during the approaching
Lent, the king was scandalized at this license; the Garde des Sceaux directed the Lieutenant
Criminel to publish, by the public criers, a decree forbidding the printing and circulating
of this bull, and the document was even publicly burned by order of the king and the Parlement.

Among the ceremonials of public rejoicing attending the wedding of Henri with Catherine de
Médicis was the illuminating, by the royal hand, of the fire on the eve of Sainte-Jean, on
the Place de Grève, in which the lamentable cries of the cats confined in a basket, and thus
consumed, filled the populace with the wildest delight. Their appetite for cruelty was soon
to be much more fully gratified, for arrangements were made, after high mass at Notre-Dame
and the State banquet in the episcopal palace, to burn as many Protestants at the stake at
once, at several places, as was possible. Among these unfortunates was a journeyman tailor,
who had been summoned before the king, and reproached by him for listening to heretical doctrines;
when Diane de Poitiers, who had been instrumental in causing his arrest, also began to harangue
him, the tailor suddenly broke silence: "Madame," said he, "content yourself with having infested
France, and do not bring your ordure to mingle with things as sacred as the truth of God."
He was consequently given one of the posts of honor among the victims, his stake being erected
in the Rue Saint-Antoine, nearest the window of the Hôtel de la Roche-Pot, from which the king
watched the executions, and it is related that, notwithstanding his atrocious sufferings, he
fixed upon the monarch, from amidst the flames, so steadfast and terrible a look that Henri
withdrew from the window, declaring that he would never be present at another auto-da-fé. This
did not signify, however, that he would order no more.

Both François and Henri had formed, and partially carried out, various enlightened measures
for the embellishment of the capital and its environs, the rebuilding of the Louvre, the completion
of Fontainebleau, the improvement of the navigation of the Seine, etc. Henri ordered the demolition
of the old royal residence, the Palais des Tournelles, and its pestiferous moats were filled
up. He is represented as being inordinately fond of processions, and every event, of good or
bad omen, was made a pretence for one of these public displays. Catherine de Médicis had brought
with her from Tuscany a taste for luxury, letters, and the arts; Philibert Delorme, whom the
French consider the second of their great architects, and who, under her orders, began, in
1564, the construction of the Tuileries, testifies to "the exceeding pleasure which she took
in architecture, designing and sketching out the plans and profiles of the edifices she intended
to erect."

Under the reign of Henri II began the rise in importance, and the frequent appearance in the
national councils, of the great families afterward so prominent in the wars of the League.
The Connétable de Montmorency, the Maréchal de Saint-André, and the Guises, younger branch
of the ducal house of Lorraine, who at this period claimed to be only the heirs of the house
of Anjou, but who, later, asserted themselves to be descendants of Charlemagne, monopolized
the royal favors and the royal authority. The eldest of Henri's sons, François II, during his
brief reign of seventeen months, confided the military administration of his kingdom to François,
Duc de Guise, who had retaken Calais from the English, and defended Metz against Charles V,
and the "civil affairs" to his brother Charles, cardinal, and possessor of no less than a dozen
benefices in the Church. The house of Bourbon, which might have disputed this ascendency with
them, was temporarily in disgrace because of the treason of the Connétable, under François
I, and the Duc de Montmorency had lost the important battle of Saint-Quentin against the Imperialists,
in 1557, and was advanced in years. To these malcontents was added the Prince de Condé, and
the higher nobility were all indignant at seeing the domination of France in the hands of foreigners,--the
queen-mother, Italian; the young wife of François II, Scotch, and the Guises, Lorrainers. To
add to their ill-humor, these foreigners, as foreigners, claimed the precedence in matters
of etiquette, and the right to walk in procession immediately after the princes of the blood,
before the chiefs of the most illustrious houses of France.

Catherine de Médicis had preserved, amidst the intrigues and debauchery of the court, but one
wholesome moral sentiment,--a passionate love for her children. The long course of mortifications
which she had had to endure at the hands of Diane de Poitiers "had effaced in her all distinctions
between good and evil." To preserve the royal power in the hands of her sons, three of whom
succeeded to the throne in somewhat rapid succession, she considered all means legitimate.
For a brief space of time she saw herself excluded from her ascendency over the king by the
young queen, Marie Stuart, daughter of James V of Scotland and Marie de Lorraine, whom Henri
II had married to his son to assure the alliance of Scotland against England. The discontent
against the Guises led to the "conspiracy of Amboise," in 1560, easily suppressed and punished
with the utmost severity; the young king wept at the incessant executions, but the pretty young
queen, as seems to be proven by her "Letters," secretly approved. The queen-mother, more intelligent,
gave the keeping of the seals to the Chancellor Michel de l'Hôpital, who opposed the proposition
of the Guises to set up the Inquisition in France, and convoked the nobles at Fontainebleau
to organize the opposition. The civil wars were inaugurated.

François II died on December 5, 1560; Mary of Scots went back to her native land, weeping bitterly,
and the queen-mother assumed the regency, as her second son, Charles IX, was then only ten
years and six months of age. He was not without good parts, he had an inclination for les belles
lettres, fostered in him by his preceptor, Amyot, who had translated Plutarch, and one of his
favorites was the poet, Pierre de Ronsard. The mutual outrages and exasperations, the changing
fortunes of the incessant wars between Catholics and Huguenots, gradually led up to the calamity
of the Saint-Bartholomew; in 1567, five years before, the young king was nearly captured by
the chiefs of the Reformed religion, escaping with difficulty to his capital and to his palace
of the Louvre. To cement the peace of Saint-Germain, signed in 1570, and which granted such
favorable terms to the Protestants that the Catholic party protested fiercely, a marriage was
arranged between the son of Jeanne d'Albret, Queen of Navarre, Henri de Béarn, and the king's
sister, Marguerite, the Reine Margot of the chroniclers. The Queen of Navarre and her son,
followed by the Admiral Coligny and a host of the leaders among the Huguenots, came to Paris;
the protestations of friendship with which they were received by the king inflamed still more
the passions of the partisans of the Guises, and the sudden death of Jeanne d'Albret, attributed
to poison, but probably caused by a pulmonary affection, only served to increase the universal
apprehension and suspicion.

The marriage was postponed, but celebrated a week later, on the 17th of August, 1572, with
great pomp; the bridegroom took up his lodgings in the Louvre, but, five days later, Coligny,
returning to his little hôtel in the Rue des Fossés-Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois, was fired at
by an assassin named Maurevert in the pay of the Guises, receiving one ball in the left arm
and losing the index finger of his right hand by another. The excessive grief and concern manifested
by the king seems to have disarmed his suspicions; but Catherine, aided by the leaders of the
Catholic party, was incessantly urging her son to seize the opportunity thus within his grasp,
and, by exterminating all the enemies of the true religion, at once avert from France the horrors
of a fourth civil war. "The king resisted; his mother quoted to him the Italian proverb that
mildness is often cruelty, and cruelty mildness; then she threatened to leave the court with
her other son, the Duc d'Anjou, so as not to witness the ruin of her house, so as to no longer
have before her eyes such cowardice and imbecility. She had well calculated the effect of this
last taunt upon a violent spirit. Charles, until then motionless and sombre, suddenly exclaimed,
that, if it were found advisable to kill the admiral, he wished that all the Huguenots in France
might be killed, 'so that not one should be left to reproach him.'" It was agreed to exempt
from the massacre the King of Navarre, the new brother-in-law of Charles, and the young Prince
de Condé, but on the condition that both of them returned to the Catholic religion.

All the necessary measures had been taken by the Guises and by the municipality of the city;
the signal was to be given from the Palais de Justice, by the first stroke of the tocsin after
midnight, on the morning of Sunday, the 24th of August, the day of Saint-Barthélemy, and the
Catholics were to be designated by white handkerchiefs on their arms and white crosses in their
hats. But the killing began under the walls of the Louvre before the appointed hour, and Catherine
sent hastily to the neighboring church of Saint-Germain-l'Auxerrois with orders to give the
signal. The Duc de Guise had reserved for himself the honor of superintending the murder of
Coligny, then helpless from his wounds, and he immediately hastened to the Hôtel de Ponthieu,
where the admiral was lodged, burst in the doors, had the old man murdered and flung out of
the window and his head struck off.

There are various authorities, among them D'Aubigné, for the story that the king fired with
a long arquebus from one of the windows of the Louvre upon the fleeing Huguenots. "He took
great pleasure," says Brantôme, "in seeing from his windows more than four thousand corpses,
killed or drowned, floating down the river." The same chronicler relates that when, on the
27th, in company with his mother and a number of seigneurs, he visited the gibbet of Montfaucon
to inspect the corpse of the admiral, there hanging in chains, he did not, like all the others,
stop his nose, but said: "I do not as you all do, for the smell of an enemy is always pleasant."
He had, perhaps, borrowed the phrase from Aulus Vitellius, visiting the battle-field of Bedriac.

"Women who were enceinte were ripped open, that the little Huguenots might be snatched from
their wombs, to be thrown, to be devoured, to pigs and dogs. In those houses in which none
were left alive but children, these infants were piled into large baskets, and then thrown
from the bridges into the river. There might be seen frightful little boys, ten years of age,
strangling the babies in the cradles, or dragging them through the streets by a cord around
their necks."

The number of slain in the city of Paris was variously estimated at from two thousand to ten.
The murders did not cease entirely until the 17th of September, and, with the exception of
some districts, in which the officials refused to carry out their orders, extended throughout
France. The victims were by no means all Huguenots; the opportunities offered to private vengeance
were too great, and rivals, debtors, thieves, and a horde of criminals covered their crimes
with the cloak of religion. Two years later, the king died, at the age of twenty-four, tormented
in his last moments by remorse, and cared for only by his old Huguenot nurse.

Even in this horrible business, there were not wanting reassuring touches of human nature.
The fine story which Dumas père tells with so much spirit in his Reine Margot, of the wounded
gentleman, pursued by the assassins, seeking refuge in the very bed-chamber of this queen,
and saved by her, is quite true, if we may believe the recital of the queen herself (Historic
Memoirs: Margaret of Valois). His name was Monsieur de Nançay, and she was obliged to change
her chemise, as he had bloodied it in clinging to her! In the conspiracy to prevent the return
of the King of Poland, afterward Henri III, to France in the eventuality of the death of Charles,
of which conspiracy the youngest royal brother, the Duc d'Alençon, was the head, there were
two gentlemen, Joseph de Boniface, Sieur de la Mole, who was Queen Marguerite's lover, and
the Comte de Coconas, an Italian, who was loved by the Duchesse de Nevers. The story of the
trial and execution of these two, and even the ghastly incident of the preservation of the
severed head of the lover, are also founded on facts.

The massacre of Saint-Bartholomew has found apologists, even at this late day,--an historical
work issued by the house of Firmin-Didot, in 1898, purporting to give an impartial résumé of
the acts of the League during the reigns of Henri III and Henri IV, declares that the people
took part in this tragedy because "their zeal had been misled," and they believed that they
were going, not to massacre, but to battle "against enemies who menaced their faith and their
liberty." The League, according to this champion of the Church, M. V. de Chalambert, "was at
once legitimate in its principles, energetic and sagacious in its acts, in its faith;" ...
"if the family of Lorraine had the signal honor of personifying, during a space of nearly fifty
years, the Catholic cause in France, it owed this honor to the faith, to the sincere zeal,
and to the great qualities of its princes, not to the schemes of ambition." A more important
work, the History of the Princes of Condé, by the Duc d'Aumale, in seven volumes, is much more
impartial, though the distinguished author's sympathies are naturally enlisted in this subject.
He quotes with just appreciation the answer of the young Prince of Condé, Henri de Bourbon,
to Charles IX after the massacre, when the king summoned him before him and curtly gave him
his choice: "Messe, mort, ou Bastille?" (the mass, death, or the Bastile.) "God will not permit,
my king and my seigneur, that I should select the first. As for the other two, they are at
your discretion, which may God temper with His Providence."

"The intellectual life of the people," says the author of the Mémoires du peuple français,
"had gained, rather than lost, amid the terrible emotions of public affairs. In the interiors
of the houses, everything demonstrated that literature, the arts, the sciences, commerce, and
industry were far from having succumbed during the long crises of the preceding reigns." It
was during the reign of Charles IX that the beginning of the year was fixed at the first of
January, by an edict issued in 1564. It had previously been considered as commencing at Easter.

Henri de Navarre and the young Duc d'Alençon were retained as prisoners in the Louvre, where
they amused themselves by flying quails in their rooms and making love to the ladies. The young
prince escaped first, on the evening of the 15th of September, 1575, but the king did not succeed
in evading the vigilance of his keepers till the following February, when he took advantage
of a hunt in the forest of Senlis, to ride to rejoin Monsieur, his young brother-in-law, and
the Prince de Condé, thus abjuring the vows of the Church, which he had taken under compulsion.
The Paix de Monsieur which followed, signed on the 17th of April, 1576, granted the followers
of Luther and Calvin the free exercise of their religion everywhere, "as much as they would
have acquired by gaining two battles against the court of France." To the zealous Catholics
this peace seemed like a betrayal of their cause, and the Sainte Ligue, for the maintenance
of the privileges of the Church and the king, was organized throughout the country under the
auspices of Henri de Guise, who placed himself at the head of the movement.

Henri III, who had fled from his throne of Poland to take that of France as soon as he heard
of the death of his brother, had not even the few good qualities of the latter. Depraved, prodigal,
effeminate, capable only of the most puerile occupations, he excited the indignation of the
Parisians by his dissolute manners, by his travesty of feminine apparel, his fine collars,
his necklaces of pearls, his pourpoint opened to show his throat. D'Aubigné declared that he
could not decide whether he saw "a woman-king or a man-queen." In his solemn entry into his
capital he scandalized the grave citizens by his appearance, "having around him a great quantity
of parakeets, monkeys, and little dogs." His courtiers and favorites naturally followed his
example, and shared the popular disfavor; in 1576, the Parisians began to designate them as
mignons du roi. Their worthy master, whenever it arrived to one of them to be killed in duel
or ambuscade, contented himself with giving him a fine tomb and a marble statue in the church
of Saint-Paul, hence called "the seraglio of the mignons," so that, says De Thou, "the usual
threat against one of these favorites was: 'I will have him carved in marble like the others.'"

To thwart the schemes of the Guises, who had begun to plot for the succession to the throne,
the king placed himself at the head of the League, and created his Order of the Saint-Esprit
in hopes of winning partisans in both camps. His brother, now Duc d'Anjou, died in 1584, after
an unsuccessful expedition into the Low Countries; the Duc de Guise concluded the treaty of
Joinville with Philippe II of Spain, in the same year, in which the high contracting parties
agreed to extirpate sects and heresies; to exclude from the throne of France heretic princes,
or those who promised public impunity to heretics, and to assure the succession of the Valois
to Charles, Cardinal de Bourbon. The cardinal was put forward as a stalking-horse, to be discarded
at the right moment. And yet after the eighth civil war, that "of the three Henrys," the duke
had the courage, or the assurance, to come to demand an audience of the king at Blois, and
was poniarded by the Quarante-Cinq, the royal body-guard, in the antechamber. The next day,
his brother, the cardinal, was killed with halberds, and the two bodies were burned that there
might be no relics.

Catherine de Médicis, if we may believe the historians, had an undoubted talent for epigrams.
When it was announced to her erroneously, as it afterward proved, that the battle of Dreux,
in 1562, had been won by the Huguenots, she remarked, placidly: "Well, we shall have to pray
God in French." When her son hastened to inform her after this notable assassination: "I have
become, again, King of France, madame, having had killed the King of Paris," she replied: "It
is not enough to cut out, my son; you must sew up." Henri did not know how to sew up; the League
was far from being killed, the city of Paris, filled with fury and resentment at this murder,
publicly disowned him and closed its gates against him. In one of the many nocturnal processions
in its streets, a hundred thousand persons, it is said, carrying lighted torches, extinguished
them all at once at a signal, crying, with one voice: "God extinguish thus the race of Valois!"
He was obliged to seek an alliance with the Béarnais; the two kings laid siege to the capital,
and a fanatical Dominican monk, Jacques Clément, having gained access to the tent of Henri
III by forged letters, buried a knife in his bowels. He died in the night, having previously
made his attendants swear to recognize the King of Navarre as King of France. His mother had
died six months before, "despair in her soul."

Of Henri IV, "manly and humane by natural gifts, as well as by worldly experience," there are
innumerable anecdotes related to illustrate his somewhat contradictory character. He is even
found apologizing for Catherine de Médicis. One day, in 1600, the Président de Groulard was
recalling to the king the memory of the many ills that she had brought upon France. "But,"
said the Béarnais, "I should like to ask you, what could a poor woman do who had, by the death
of her husband, been left with five small children on her hands and two families who were endeavoring
to wrest the crown from them, ours and that of the Guises? Was she not obliged to make use
of strange personages to outwit both of them, and yet to preserve, as she did, her children,
who reigned successively, thanks to the discreet conduct of so sagacious a woman? I wonder
that she did not do even worse!" His perpetual pecuniary difficulties, so common to kings of
France, developed in him other qualities. L'Estoile relates that his fine horses were returned
to him in Paris because there were no funds with which to provide for them. The king turned
to M. d'O, the Governor of Paris, and asked him how this came to be. "Sire," replied the latter,
"there is no money." "My condition," said the king, "is, indeed, deplorable! I shall presently
be obliged to go naked and on foot." Then, turning to a valet de chambre, he asked him how
many shirts he possessed. "A dozen, sire; some of them are torn." "And handkerchiefs, have
I not eight?" "At present, there are only five." "One night, when D'Aubigné and La Force were
sleeping near the King of Navarre, the former complained bitterly to the second of their master's
stinginess. La Force, overwhelmed with fatigue, was not listening. 'Do you not hear what I
am saying?' asked D'Aubigné. La Force, rousing himself, demanded the subject of his discourse.
'Eh! he is telling thee,' said the king, who had heard it all, 'that I am a skinflint [un ladre
vert], and the most ungrateful mortal on the face of the earth.' 'He did not manifest any resentment
toward me,' adds D'Aubigné; 'but neither did he give me a quarter of an écu the more.'"

His second marriage, with Marie de Médicis, a niece of the Pope, was no more happy than royal
marriages usually were. The pontiff had granted him a divorce from Marguerite de Valois, whose
conduct was thought to be too frivolous even for those times; and the royal nuptials were solemnized
at Florence in October, 1600, and greatly fêted in Paris the following January. "A dull woman,
who brought him neither heart nor beauty nor wit, but the largest dot that could then be found
(six hundred thousand écus of gold, equivalent to eighteen or twenty millions of francs to-day)."
"His mistresses--less by their beauty than by gaiety and good humor--held an influence over
him which probably she herself might have acquired, could she have curbed her violent temper.
But not only did she rave and rage, and assail him with angry words, it was even necessary
to restrain her from the too free use of her hands. And her blows were far from being light
ones, for, as Henri once jestingly said, she was 'terribly robust.'" His conjugal inconstancy
was, indeed, flagrant. La belle Gabrielle, Madame de Liancourt, afterward made Marquise de
Mousseaux, the most celebrated of his mistresses, was declared by him to be the only woman
he ever really loved, and, say the chronicles, "he used to caress her greatly and kiss her
before everybody," but she had plenty of successors. One of them, the Marquise de Verneuil,
was obliged to be present in the queen's train on the day of her coronation, as was, also,
the divorced Marguerite de France; and on the very morning of his assassination, the king,
now grizzled and bent, went to pay a visit to a newer beauty to whom he was paying court, Mlle.
Angélique Paulet, daughter of the secretary of State who originated the celebrated financial
measure named, after him, la paulette.

Nevertheless, it is related that on the day of her coronation, in 1610, when Marie de Médicis
passed up the nave of the cathedral of Saint-Denis, flushed with pride and triumph, and wearing
regally the royal mantle and jewels, Henri, who was present only as a spectator, turned to
Sully, his minister and friend, and said, with animation: "Ventre-saint-gris! Qu'elle est belle!"
It may be remarked that the king's favorite oath was said to have been invented for him by
the churchmen, that he might not be guilty of blasphemy,--neither Saint-Gris nor his stomach
being known to the calendar.

After having paid his visit to Mademoiselle Paulet, the king ordered his carriage, to go and
see how the preparations for the 16th of May--the day of the public entrance into the capital
of the newly-crowned Queen of France--were progressing. It is said that he had a superstitious
presentiment concerning carriages, and but very seldom used them; there were not wanting other
warnings, one from the astrologers, and his heart was unusually heavy. He had already escaped
nineteen attempts at assassination. The coaches of those days had no glass windows, and were
clumsy boxes, mounted on four immense wheels, and either set without springs or suspended on
broad leathern bands. The king, who was accompanied by the ducs d'Épernon and de Montbazon
and five other gentlemen, ordered the leathern curtains at the sides to be rolled up; at the
corner of the Rue Saint-Honoré and the narrow Rue de la Ferronnerie there was a temporary blockade
caused by two wagons, one laden with wine and the other with hay,--Ravaillac took advantage
of the halt to mount with one foot on one of the spokes of the hind wheel on the side where
the king was sitting and stabbed him three times, though the second stroke was instantly mortal.

The consternation was general and overwhelming, and with reason. "There might be seen men,
as if struck by lightning, suddenly fall unconscious in the middle of the streets; several
persons died very suddenly."

Henri III was the first King of France who made use of a carriage, but horses and mules long
remained the favorite means of transportation for those who did not go afoot. Sober personages,
magistrates and burghers, rode mules, and the ladies were loath to give up their hackneys for
the new machines. Sauval, in his Antiquités de Paris, relates that he had been informed by
a certain ancient dame--Madame Pilon--that there were no coaches in Paris until after the time
of the League, some sixteen years before the death of Henri IV, and that the first person to
appear in one was a relative of her own, the daughter of a wealthy apothecary of the Rue Saint-Antoine.
Glass windows for them were not used till the reign of Louis XIV, who sent a coach so furnished
as a gift to Charles II of England. The usage of tobacco began to be general under Henri IV,
and soon became so excessive that the strongest measures were taken against those addicted
to this habit. The beard of this monarch was also considered an offensive innovation by his
Catholic subjects, and is even said to be responsible for more than one of the fanatical attempts
on his life. His Huguenot subjects, however, "drew a hope from his continuance to wear it that
their renegade chief might yet be of the number of the predestined."

"A hundred virtues of a valet, and not one virtue of a master," said Tallemant des Réaux of
Henri's son, Louis XIII, as he grew to manhood. In two very recent publications on this historical
period, M. Berthold Zeller, drawing his details from the contemporary reports of the Florentine
and Venetian ambassadors at the court of France, presents a striking picture of the feebleness
and ineptitude of the young king, even after the date of the official ending of his minority,
October 2, 1614, and of the subtlety, quite Italian, with which the queen-mother played her
part amid the intrigues of her followers and her adversaries. M. Louis Batiffol, in an article
in the Revue de Paris, December, 1896, comments on a collection of manuscripts which he has
found in the Bibliothèque Nationale, communications furnished by Louis XIII to the Gazette,
published by Renaudot, on various military transactions. The communications were all edited,
and not printed from these originals, because, although he was very fond of writing for the
new art of printing, the king was "absolutely destitute of orthography, and was ignorant of
the simplest rules of grammar. He wrote stiffly and with great care, in letters thin and long,
more than a centimètre in length, he re-read, erased, and corrected in pencil the most awkward
phrases, but his style remained at the end that of a child." Before being sent to the printer,
these royal communications were corrected by one of his secretaries, M. Lucas, and afterward
went through the hands of Richelieu. Nevertheless, M. Batiffol finds that these articles give
"a very favorable impression of a king who presents so unimportant a figure in history and
yet who did not lack for real qualities,"--an impression of impassibility, of self-control
under all circumstances, and of a very serious application to the details of the affairs that
came before him. "He was a soldier devoted to his profession, a true soldier, who loved the
whistling of bullets, and would remain all night on horseback under a beating rain if he expected
an attack from the enemy."

He was also a superior market-gardener, and prided himself on having the earliest and finest
spring vegetables, superintending all the details of their cultivation himself. None of these
early crops, however, appeared on his own table, but were furnished, at fancy prices, to such
luxurious consumers as the wealthy Pierre de Puget, Seigneur de Montauron, Conseiller du roi.
One day, in 1628, being, as usual, at a loss for occupation, and having successfully concocted
a fricandeau for dinner, he amused himself by shaving all his courtiers, leaving them only
a little tuft on the chin. This, naturally, set the fashion for beards for some time.

It also became the custom for gentlemen to perfume themselves, to disguise the odor of the
pipe, which was now coming into general use. In October, 1645, the King of Poland sent a magnificent
embassy, with an escort of four hundred cavaliers, to Paris to demand in marriage the hand
of Marie-Louise de Gonzague, daughter of Charles I, Duke of Mantua, and Catherine de Lorraine;
a formal entry into the city was arranged, and the Parisians were much impressed with the grand
costumes of the Polish nobility,--"their stuffs were embossed with gold and silver, and precious
stones glittered from every portion of their adornment, whilst the French nobility, which came
out to meet them, displayed only plumes and ribbons." Nevertheless, it appeared that the French
nobles had shaved themselves and washed their hands, which the Poles had forgotten to do. This
mediæval lack of cleanliness continued down to the time of Louis XIV; Marguerite de Navarre,
in a pretty, amorous dialogue of her composition, makes the fair lady admit that she had not
washed her hands for a week.

The court of France was, at this period, the most depraved in morals, the grossest and most
unpolished in manners, of any in Europe. The women of the bourgeoisie, envious of the great
ladies, called them dames à gorge nue; and the latter retaliated by designating the women of
the people as grisettes, because of their gray (grises) stockings,--a name retained almost
down to the present day. In the sittings of the États Généraux, the President, Miron, complained
bitterly of the excesses of the nobility, the contempt for justice, the open violences, the
gambling, the extravagance, the constant duels, the "execrable oaths with which they thought
it proper to ornament their usual discourse." It was from this general ignorance and corruption
that the Marquise de Rambouillet withdrew in disgust, and established in her own hôtel that
famous society of arts and letters and refinement--somewhat stilted and artificial--which constituted
it the true court of France. "Instituted certainly before 1620," says M. Victor Cousin, "it
sparkled with the utmost brilliancy for thirty years."

In 1612, the queen-mother, Marie de Médicis, then regent, arranged a double Spanish marriage
for two of her children: the Princess Elisabeth, a child of twelve, was sent to Spain to wed
the Prince of the Asturias, afterward Philip IV, and Louis brought back to Paris "a fine tall
girl, a Spanish blonde, wanting yet two or three summers for the full development of her beauty,"
Anne d'Autriche. Though he was as faithful to his marriage vows as Saint-Louis, it is said,
he seems to have always maintained for his wife a profound contempt, and, when the little Louis
XIV was born, refused to take the infant in his arms, or to kiss it, which wounded the mother
more than all his previous neglect. His treatment of his own mother in her later days was even
more reprehensible; she was banished, and left in indigence and humiliation till her death,
at Cologne, July 3, 1642. Her sole piece of jewelry, a cross surrounded with diamonds, and
containing a piece of the true cross, she bequeathed to her daughter Henrietta, wife of Charles
I of England. It was through Marie de Médicis, whom he afterward opposed so consistently, that
the Bishop of Luçon, afterward Cardinal Richelieu, first was called to court, and during the
king's minority and tutelage the government was administered by "the three robes," the queen-mother,
the Bishop of Luçon, and the wife of the Italian favorite Concini, the Maréchal d'Ancre, killed
on the drawbridge of the Louvre when he became too overbearing and obnoxious.

"The distinguishing characteristic of the Siècle de Louis XIV," says M. Maxime Petit, in his
review of the important work by Émile Bourgeois, Le Grand Siècle, "that which Voltaire selected
as the most important, is not the history of the negotiations and the battles, but that of
the manners and customs, the ideas, the beliefs, the letters, and the arts.... Never, perhaps,
more than in the time of Louis XIV was there a more complete harmony between the ideas and
the life. The political forces are thoroughly disciplined, and the principle of authority,
which Richelieu had developed to its fullest extent, reigns uncontested. Polite society--the
only one to be considered--believes itself to be in possession of absolute rules, and, in the
court as in the city, the heart abdicates in favor of reason." "When one speaks of the seventeenth
century in France," says M. Louis Farges, "it appears, to those who are neither historians
nor professional scholars, as one of those rare epochs in which all the forces of the nation
concentrate and develop in a serene and majestic unity. France seems, then, to be at the summit
of her political power, of her intellectual and artistic development, of her religious and
philosophical unity. Taken altogether, and in a very general manner, this is a very just idea;
... it must be admitted that at no other epoch has the genius of France manifested itself in
the divers branches of human activity in a manner so complete, so abundant, and so united."
"France was really," says M. Duruy, "at the head of modern civilization, and, by the recognized
superiority of her genius and of her taste, she caused to be accepted by the whole of Europe
the pacific empire of her artists and of her writers."

Apparently, at least, the visible instrument that accomplished this great result was the dogma
of absolute power, the monarchical régime; the king was the earthly image of God, divine, inviolable:
loyalisme was a veritable religion, it had its symbols, its mysteries, and its rites. "If the
king were not afraid of the devil," said Saint-Simon, "he would cause himself to be worshipped."
This faith and this worship were already manifested "in their incomparable splendor by the
ceremonies attending the opening of the États Généraux in 1614, dominated, not, as in 1789,
by the august and abstract idea of the nation, but by the pale and melancholy figure of a boy
of thirteen." For the tremendous and elaborate pomp of his court, the ceremonial ostentation
which hedged around his own redoubtable figure, the tedious and suffocating etiquette which
attended all approach to his person, Louis XIV himself had very definite reasons, which he
expressed with an appreciable logic in his Mémoires. "Those who deem that these are only matters
of ceremony deceive themselves greatly. The people over whom we reign, not being able to penetrate
to the depths of things, form their judgments usually on that which they see on the surface,
and most frequently measure their respect and their obedience by precedence and rank. As it
is important to the public to be governed by one only, it is also of importance to it that
he who fills this function should be elevated in such a manner above the others that there
should be no person who can be either confounded or compared with him, and it is not possible,
without injury to the whole body of the State, to deprive its chief of the slightest marks
of superiority which distinguish him from all the other members."

Hence, three conditions were imposed absolutely upon all those who sought in any way to find
favor with the head of the State,--to ask and to obtain a residence at Versailles; to follow
the court everywhere, even when sick, even when dying, and to approve of everything. Of the
universal abasement of spirit which this régime brought about, the memoirs of the time are
full. La Bruyère said: "Whoever considers how the happiness of the courtier lies wholly in
the face of the prince, that he makes it the one occupation of his life to look on it, and
to be seen by it, may, in some degree, comprehend how, in looking on the face of God, consists
all the glory and happiness of the saint." The Duc de Richelieu wrote: "I pray the king on
my knees that he will permit me to come sometimes to pay my court to him, for I had rather
die than be two months without seeing him." A court-preacher, preaching one day before the
king on the familiar topic, dwelt upon it: "We shall all die, all, all!" A sudden and involuntary
movement of the monarch reminded him that he had touched upon a theme displeasing to royalty.
In his dismay and confusion he hastened to qualify his assertion: "Yes, sire, almost all."
Louis XIV, it is said, looked forward to continuing his rôle of Grand Monarque, even in the
next world.

His education had been much neglected in his youth,--it was said, designedly, by Mazarin, who
wished to perpetuate his own powder. One of the first of the royal preceptors, M. Le Vayer,
discovered that Louis was less intelligent than his younger brother, Philippe, and proposed
to devote himself to developing the character of the latter, but was speedily checked by the
astute cardinal. Like his mother, Anne of Austria, the king had but little taste for literature.
"Of what use is reading?" he said one day to the Maréchal de Vivonne. His appetites, however,
were fully developed. The Duchesse d'Orléans relates that she had very frequently seen him
eat, at one sitting, four platefuls of different soups, an entire pheasant, a partridge, a
great dish of salad, a dish of mutton with its gravy, garnished with garlic, two good pieces
of ham, a large plateful of pastry, and end with fruit and preserves. However, he drank only
water reddened with a little wine. The état de maîtresse en titre du roi was as formally recognized
in his court as that of confessor or chamberlain. Frequently there were two at once. The "three
queens" were legitimate objects of curiosity to all those who were permitted to bask in the
royal sunshine. Madame de la Vallière, perceiving herself to be gradually superseded by Madame
de Montespan, fled to a convent three times, and was finally permitted to remain there; M.
de Montespan, having vainly attempted to remove his wife from court, was sent to the Bastile,
and on his release was ordered to his estate. There he put on mourning, as though she were
dead, which the king considered a great affront. His wife graciously made use of her influence
at court to procure a renewal of the pension of the widow Scarron, only to see her ultimately
appointed guardian of the king's children and succeed her in her position, as Madame de Maintenon.

"Violating all laws, civil and religious," says Duruy, "the king placed on a level with the
princes of the blood the princes legitimized. He forced the court to respect the one as equal
to the other; and the public morality received a blow from which it was very slow to recover."
These lessons were not lost, and the annals of the nobility are full of scandalous examples.
The ducs d'Orléans and Vendôme were addicted to infamous debauchery; the Duc d'Antin was caught,
flagrante delicto, in theft; drunkenness and gambling were prevalent at court, the Grand Prieur
de Vendôme boasted that he had not gone to bed sober one night in forty years. Pascal, discussing
the privileges of the nobles and the kings, said to them boldly: "You are kings only of concupiscence."
This great court, the most brilliant in Europe, "sweated hypocrisy," said Saint-Simon. It may
be remarked, that, in addition to the very frequent disfigurement by small-pox, from which
even the king was not entirely free, there was a remarkable prevalence of deformity among the
families of the aristocracy. "There was scarcely one of which some member, male or female,
had not a curved spine, a distorted limb, or other malformation; owing, most likely, to the
common practice of closely swathing the limbs of infants, and of confiding young children to
the charge of careless and ignorant nurses, for the first three or four years of their lives."

Two of the mysteries of this reign which have long furnished themes for discussion have lately
been solved by the ingenuity of modern research. The "Man in the Iron Mask," guarded in the
Bastile "for forty-two years," treated with the utmost consideration and buried under a false
name, it now appears was confined there only five years, from September, 1698, to his death
in November, 1703, shared his cell at different periods with other prisoners, a police spy
and a lackey, and was buried without any attempt at mystery! The original register of his death,
reproduced before its destruction among other archives of the city of Paris in 1871, gives
his name as Marchioly, though it had been read Marchialy by all the commentators (the tail
of the o being really a trifle too high for an a), and it is now considered settled that this
signified Mattioli, in the uncertain orthography of the times, Count Hercule-Antoine Mattioli,
secretary of the Duke of Mantua, whom Louis XIV had caused to be arrested on Italian soil,
in defiance of international law, for having betrayed the secrets of the negotiations relative
to the acquisition of Casal.

The sudden and tragic death of Madame, Henriette d'Angleterre, wife of the king's brother,
Monsieur, le Duc d'Orléans, made famous by Bossuet's funeral oration, long ascribed to poison,
has been elucidated by Littré in what has been designated as the finest example known of "a
retrospective medical demonstration." She had just returned from England, bearing with her
the treaty of Dover, signed by her brother, Charles II, in which that monarch agreed to abandon
the alliance with Holland, and died suddenly in great agony after taking her usual glass of
chicory-water in the evening. The autopsy, which was performed by the most celebrated surgeons
of France, aided by two or three English physicians, revealed a small perforation in the walls
of the stomach, which the doctors, knowing no other way of accounting for, agreed must have
been made accidentally by the point of their scissors. Littré demonstrates that this accident
was very improbable, and that the perforation was evidently caused by an ulcer of the stomach,--a
disease unknown to the medical science of the time.

Louis XIV was preceded to the tomb by his only son, the dauphin, in April, 1711; by the Duc
de Bourgogne, become dauphin in February, 1712, his wife having died six days before; by the
Duc de Bretagne, eldest of the sons of the Duc de Bourgogne, three weeks after his parents;
by the Duc de Berry, grandson of the king, on the 4th of May, 1714. Such a succession of calamities
roused the gravest suspicions, and the Duc d'Orléans, afterward regent, openly accused of the
use of poison, seriously contemplated demanding permission of the king to constitute himself
prisoner till these calumnies should be silenced. There remained only a young prince, the Duc
d'Anjou, son of the Duc de Bourgogne and Marie-Adélaide de Savoie, five years old at this date,
and so delicate that his life was despaired of. He, however, lived to become Louis XV. Louis
XIV, after having declared his sons by the Marquise de Montespan, the Duc du Maine and the
Comte de Toulouse, heirs to the crown in default of princes of the blood, and making them members
of the Council of the Regency, died September 1, 1715, at the age of seventy-seven.

His testament, as he had foreseen, was set aside, much as his father's had been. Philippe d'Orléans
summoned the Parlement, which granted him full power as regent, with freedom to compose the
council as he liked, and the government of the royal household was taken from the Duc du Maine
after a most unseemly altercation. All the solemn and pompous traditions of the court were
likewise abandoned. "What does it matter to the State," said the regent, "whether it is I or
my lackey who rides in a carriage." He took for his minister and councillor the Abbé Dubois,
"a little, thin man, like a weasel," said Saint-Simon, "in whom all the vices, perfidiousness,
avarice, debauchery, ambition, and base flattery, struggled for the mastery." The general demoralization
caused by the collapse of the great financial schemes of John Law was only a feature in the
general abandonment of all restraint in the pursuit of pleasure. In the midst of this luxury
of effrontery, there suddenly appeared the imposing and barbaric figure of Peter the Great
of Russia, who visited Paris in the spring of 1717, and dismayed the court and the Parisians
by the simplicity and directness of his character, his disregard for their voluptuous frivolity,
and his appreciation of the things only that make for greatness in a State. He did not hesitate
to prophesy, from what he saw and learned, the approaching decadence and ruin of the French
monarchy and the French people.

At the age of thirteen, in February, 1723, Louis XV was declared to have attained his majority
and assumed the reins of government, nominally at least, for the regent had taken care to give
him Dubois for prime minister. Both these illustrious personages, however, died in the course
of the year, and were succeeded by the Duc de Bourbon, "ugly and one-eyed, low, mediocre, hypocritical,
a man of little led by a woman of nothing, Madame de Prie," and who renewed the persecution
of the Protestants and the Jansenists. The young king contented himself with "showing at the
council table his handsome and impassible countenance, which nothing ever animated. When not
thus engaged, when he was neither gambling nor hunting, he occupied himself with tapestry-making,
turning snuff-boxes in wood, or reading either the secret correspondence with his ambassadors,
which he maintained unknown to his ministers, or the scandalous recitals which the lieutenant
of police sent him regularly every day." In the latter part of his reign, these habits were
succeeded by even more ignoble ones, drunkenness and nameless vices.

To maintain his own power, the Duc de Bourbon sent back to Spain the Infanta, who had been
brought to Paris, at the age of four, to fit her for her future position as Queen of France,
and married the king to Marie Leczinska, daughter of the dethroned King of Poland, then living
at Wissembourg on the charity of the French government. One day, this Stanislas Leczinski entered
the chamber in which his wife and daughter were sitting, and said to them in great excitement:
"Let us get down on our knees and thank God!" "Are you recalled to the throne of Poland?" asked
his daughter. "Much better; you are Queen of France." She was seven years older than the king,
very poor, without beauty, but gentle and pious. The insult offered to the court of Spain was
but one of the many blunders and failures of the foreign diplomacy, while the extravagance
and debauchery at home kept pace with the growing disorder in the national finances. The sum
total of the funds disbursed during "the nineteen years of the reign of Madame de Pompadour,
drawn up by her orders, exceeds thirty-six millions of livres, equivalent to more than sixty
millions at the present day." In 1780, under Louis XVI, the amount of pensions paid by the
government reached the sum of twenty-eight millions, and soon after rose to thirty-two. "I
doubt," said Necker, in his Compte rendu, "if all the sovereigns of Europe pay in pensions
the half of this sum." At the same time, the officers of the household of Louis XV were frequently
unpaid, and it was more than once necessary, as it had been in the reign of his illustrious
predecessor, to appeal to bourgeois and nobles to bring their silverware to the treasury to
be melted down, that the national administration might not be utterly bankrupt. "Never," said
the Comte de Maistres, during the Terror, "did a great crime have so many accomplices: there
are doubtless some innocent sufferers among the victims, but they are very much fewer than
is generally supposed."

The marriage of the dauphin, afterward Louis XVI, with the Austrian archduchess, Marie-Antoinette,
in May, 1770, was attended with a frightful catastrophe during the celebration of the event,
on the evening of the 30th, on the Place Louis XV, now Place de la Concorde,--hundreds of persons
being crushed to death, trampled under foot, killed with swords, or with the fireworks which
burst in their midst. It was an ill omen for the future. The accession to the throne of this
youthful pair, in 1774, was hailed with pleasing anticipations by the nation, wearied with
the excesses of the late reign. "What joy," said Michelet, "to see seated at last on the purified
throne of Louis XV this virtuous, this excellent young king and this charming queen! Who would
not have hoped for everything? A grand movement of art adorned this coronation, illuminated
the scene. And the queen was the centre of all. One woman only seemed to exist." The graceful,
youthful figure of Marie-Antoinette, dauphine, has recently been made the subject of special
research by M. Pierre de Molhac, and the intimate relations between court intrigues and the
gravest measures of foreign diplomacy are exemplified in the pressure put upon her by her mother,
Marie-Thérèse, to treat with more consideration the king's mistress, Madame du Barry, who,
the dauphine wrote to her mother, "is the silliest and most impertinent creature imaginable."
The consent of Louis XV to the partition of Poland was purchased by the promise of his daughter-in-law
to assume the same attitude toward Madame du Barry that her mother had formerly condescended
to with respect to Madame du Pompadour. "Louis XV was touched in the most sensitive part of
his heart by the tact of his old friend; his silence concerning Poland was paid for in advance."

Amid the general extravagance and corruption of the upper classes of society some attempts
were made to preserve the traditions of the famous Hôtel de Rambouillet, le berceau de la société
polie, where talent, learning, and wit were the qualities that secured distinction, and not
pride of birth. Under Louis XIV, this salon was renewed in the fine hôtel of the Marquise de
Lambert, in the Ile Saint-Louis,--in modern times restored by Prince Czartoriski,--and in the
"Saturdays" of Mademoiselle de Scudéry, one of the greatest literary celebrities that had frequented
the receptions of the Marquise de Rambouillet. The Saturdays were a great success, and the
example thus set of "having a day" was generally followed; the literary coteries of the précieuses--later
satirized by Molière--became numerous, and Mademoiselle de Scudéry's receptions were maintained
till 1695. Under Louis XVI, in 1780, appeared no less than three social organizations having
widely different aims,--the Société Philanthropique, the Société Apollonienne, which soon changed
its title to that of the Musée, and the more practical Société des Mercredis, which existed
for the purpose of encouraging good cooking. But the most distinguished of these reunions,
frequented by the higher classes of society, was the Société Dramatique de Madame de Montesson,
the mistress of the Duc d'Orléans, who had ended by marrying her with his left hand. In her
hôtel in the Rue Chaussée d'Antin, this lady had mounted a theatre, on which she appeared with
the prince, and which, from 1770 to 1780, quite maintained the lead in the social diversions
of the capital.

With the approach of the Revolution, about the commencement of the year 1785, there was a new
movement, in the direction of the organization of a great number of "clubs," a word then new
to the Parisian ears, but which was received with great favor. There was already in existence
a Club Politique, which the government tolerated on the express condition that no discussions
of politics or religion were to be permitted,--a condition which was quite disregarded. The
Duc d'Orléans, who was very proud of being a member of the Club Anglais, founded the Club de
Boston or des Américains; then there was the Club des Arcades, the Club des Étrangers, the
Club de la Société Olympique, the Club des Artistes, and several others. The important part
played in the bloody drama of the Revolution by the various political clubs, is matter of history.
The earliest of these associations, of course, bore a general resemblance to the social institutions
which the Parisians now know as Cercles; and it may be remarked that one of the most celebrated
of the many recent pessimistic publications of the day, the Grandeur et Décadence des Français,
by M. Gaston Routier, finds one of the many signs of the social demoralization of his countrymen
in the number and importance of the cercles in the cities, and especially in the high play
that so many of them favor.

To the extravagances and pretended miracles of the sect of the convulsionnaires and those wrought
on the tomb of the deacon Paris in the cemetery Saint-Médard in 1730 and 1731, succeeded the
extraordinary alleged cures of the German doctor Mesmer, who came to Paris in 1778 with his
theory of "animal magnetism,"--theory treated with more respect by many of the savants of the
present day than by those of the eighteenth century. The invention of the brothers Montgolfier,
practically tested in 1783, awakened an extraordinary interest both in the scientific world
and among the populace; and it is related that the American, Benjamin Franklin, being asked
what he thought of these new aërial machines, replied: "It is the coming child."

The times were ripe for change: Mademoiselle de Romans, walking in the Tuileries gardens with
a little son whom she had born to Louis XV, and pressed by the crowd, exclaimed: "Eh! messieurs
and mesdames, do not crush so, and let your king's child breathe!" The Comte d'Artois, who
was devoted to the game of tennis, being one day in an ill humor, ordered the court to be cleared
of all the spectators, using epithets which were habitual with him: "Drive them all out," he
said, "tous ces b . . . et ces j . . . f . . . !" No one was left but one officer. "Well, did
you not hear what I said?" demanded his Royal Highness. "Yes, monseigneur, but as I am neither
a b . . . , nor a j . . . f... , I remained." "The respect for la noblesse was singularly diminished,
and the whole audience, even the nobles themselves, applauded at the theatre, in 1784, the
bold epigrams of the 'Figaro' of Beaumarchais: 'Because you are a great seigneur, you think
yourself a great genius! You have given yourself the trouble to be born; that is all you have
done!'"

On the 19th of June, 1789, the Assemblée Nationale, in a session which Marat qualified as "glorious,"
decreed "that hereditary nobility is forever abolished in France; that, consequently, the titles
of marquis, chevalier, écuyer, comte, vicomte, messire, prince, baron, vidame, noble, duc,
and all other similar titles cannot be borne by any person whatsoever, nor given to any one;
that no citizen shall bear other than his true family name; that no one shall cause his domestics
to wear a livery nor have any coats-of-arms, and that incense shall be burned in the temples
only in honor of the Divinity." The Assemblée Legislative held its first sitting on the 1st
of October, 1792; on the 4th, the deputation of sixty members sent to announce to the king
that the body was ready to begin its deliberations hesitated as to what phrases to employ,
and finally decided upon Votre Majesté. When the deputation returned to give an account of
its mission, much dissatisfaction was expressed: "Let there be no more use of this title of
'Majesty,'" exclaimed one member.

"Let us repudiate the title of 'Sire,'" said another.

"There is no longer any majesty here but that of the law and the people," cried Couthon.

It was accordingly decreed that the deputies should seat themselves and cover themselves before
the king, that there should be provided but two similar arm-chairs, one for the king and one
for the president, and, finally, that the king should receive no other title but that of Roi
des Français. Louis XVI complained bitterly of this indignity, but it was one of the least
he was called upon to endure.

When the royal family were brought into Paris from Versailles by the armed mob, they arrived
at the Tuileries at half-past ten in the morning of the 6th of October, 1789. No attempt had
been made to prepare for their use this long uninhabited palace, and the little dauphin said
to his mother: "Mamma, everything here is very ugly." "My son," she replied, "Louis XIV lived
here, and found himself comfortable; we should not be more difficult to please than he was."
On the 20th of June, 1791, they made an unsuccessful attempt to escape by flight, in disguise,
from the constantly increasing perils that menaced them, but were recognized at Varennes and
brought back in captivity. Nevertheless, the king was restored to his executive functions on
the 14th of the following September, and it was not until after the attack on the Tuileries,
on the 10th of August, 1792, brought about largely by the intrigues of the émigré nobles who
had fled over the frontier and by the manifesto of the Duke of Brunswick, the general in command
of the Prussian army, announcing that he was coming, in the name of the allied kings, to restore
to Louis XVI his authority, that that hapless monarch finally lost it. While his faithful Swiss
guards were being massacred in the hopeless defence of his palace, he was sitting, surrounded
by his family, in the loge called that of the logographe, where he had taken refuge with the
Assemblée, watching through the open grille, or iron railing, the tumultuous deliberations
of that body while it enacted that the chief of the executive power was temporarily suspended
from the exercise of his functions. Two days later, they were all conducted to the Temple as
prisoners, where the king was lodged on one floor of the grand tower, while the queen, Madame
Elisabeth, his sister, the young dauphin and his sister, occupied that above him.

On the 26th of October, the Journal de Paris announced that the ladies had taken possession
of their new apartment on the third floor, which consisted "of four rooms very well furnished,
two of which had chimneys and the other two, stoves. The son of Capet sleeps in his father's
chamber. On a clock in the chamber of Louis there was the inscription: 'Le Pautre, clockmaker
to the king.' The name of the king has been effaced and that of the Republic substituted."
The "ci-devant royal family" were allowed to promenade in the garden, and the king sometimes
walked on the leads of the tower, all the openings of which had been carefully closed so that
he could not see below, nor be seen. During five months this captivity was maintained under
a constant and frequently outrageous surveillance.

The Bourbons were not without their familiar spectre, a very celebrated one, who appeared to
announce the approaching death of a member of the royal family, and on the eve of his execution
Louis XVI asked Monsieur de Malesherbes if the White Lady were not walking in the corridors
of the Temple. This was the Dame Blanche of the popular saying, who takes an interest in you
when all other things cease to be of any concern to you: La Dame Blanche vous regarde, et les
affaires des autres ne vous regardent pas.

During the Revolution, the Directory, the Consulate, and even the early days of the Empire,
the fashions for both men and women were in many respects extravagant. The very elegant young
men were known as muscadins and incroyables (incredibles) from their favorite expression,--all
the r's being banished from their speech: "En véité, c'est incoyable!" But it was not always
safe to laugh at them; in 1795, the black collar which the aristocrats substituted for the
former green one, in sign of mourning, gave rise to many difficulties and altercations. In
the midst of the Palais-Royal a republican received a bullet point-blank in his chest in return
for an insult. Another, meeting one of these collets noirs, said to him: "B . . . of a Chouan,
for whom dost thou wear mourning?" "For thee!" replied the other, and blew out his brains.
When Napoleon came into power, there arose that misdirected imitation of the antique known
as the style of the Empire, with a great display of jewelry on the costumes of both men and
women; "the aristocracy of the French Empire presented a revival of the ostentatious patricians
of Rome under the Cæsars. The toilettes displayed were rich and magnificent, but it must be
said that they were in bad taste."

The contempt which the members of the somewhat effete aristocracy of the ancien régime manifested,
even down to the period of the Second Empire, for the virile and fire-new nobility of Napoleon's
family, generals and marshals, was generally as puerile as it was unpatriotic, but the latter
only too frequently presented subject for sarcasm. In one of the most recent of the many Napoleonic
memoirs, those of the Comtesse Potocka, this lively Polish lady describes the great personages
who surrounded the Emperor in the winter of 1806-1807, at Warsaw: Murat, parading himself in
the salons "with the majestic air of a comedian assuming the rôle of a king;" the young Prince
Borghèse, "who, in the brief intervals when the conversation became a little serious, went
off to get some chairs, arranged them in pairs in the middle of the salon, and amused himself
by dancing contra-dances with these silent partners, humming to himself." Three years later,
in Paris, Madame Potocka saw the new Empress, Marie-Louise, whose dull countenance and German
accent sufficiently accounted for her personal unpopularity.

