MICHAELIS, JOHANN DAVID, an Orientalist and Biblical scholar, born at Halle; was a man of vast
learning; professor of Philosophy as well as of Oriental Languages at Göttingen; wrote an "Introduction
to the New Testament," and "Commentaries on the Legislation of Moses"; was one of the first
to correlate the history of the Jews with that of the other Oriental nations of antiquity (1717-1791).

MICHAELMAS is the festival in honour of St. Michael and the angels, held on the 20th September,
the day being one of the quarter days on which rents are levied.

MICHEL, FRANCESQUE, French antiquary, born at Lyons; was commissioned by the French Government
in 1835 to visit the libraries of England in the interest of the history and literature of
France; was a most erudite man, and edited a great many works belonging to the Middle Ages;
wrote even on the Scottish language and Scottish civilisation (1809-1887).

MICHELET, JULES, French historian, born in Paris; was the author among other works of a "History
of France" in 18 vols., and a "History of the Revolution" in 7 vols.; he cherished a great
animosity against the priests, and especially the Jesuits, whom he assailed with remorseless
invective; he was from 1838, for 13 years, professor of History in the College of France, but
he lost the appointment because he refused to take the oath of allegiance to Louis Napoleon;
from this date he abandoned all interest in public affairs, and gave himself to the quiet study
of nature and animal life; wrote on birds and insects, on the sea, on women, on love, on witchcraft,
and the Bible and humanity; as a writer of history he gave his imagination free scope, and
he painted it less as it was than as he regarded it from his own personal likes and dislikes
(1798-1874).

MICHIGAN (2,094), a State of the American Union, larger than England and Wales, is broken in
two by Lake Michigan; the western portion has Wisconsin on its S. border, the eastern portion
has Indiana and Ohio on the S.; the rest of the State is surrounded by Lakes Superior, Huron,
and Erie. The western section is mountainous, with great forests of pine, little agriculture,
rich mines of copper and iron, and some gold; the eastern section is much larger, very flat
and low, has coal, gypsum, and marble quarries, but is chiefly a wheat-growing area; in the
Saginaw Valley are great salt wells; the climate is modified by the lakes. At first a French
colony, the country was handed over to England in 1760, and to the United States in 1776; it
was organised as a territory in 1805, and admitted a State in 1837; the chief commercial city
is DETROIT (206), on Detroit River, in the E., has manufactures of machinery and railway plant,
leather, and beer, and a large shipping trade. GRAND RAPIDS (60), on the Grand River, has furniture
works, and makes stucco-plaster and white bricks. LANSING (13) is the State capital, and an
important railway centre.

MICHIGAN, LAKE, in the N. of the United States, between Michigan and Wisconsin, is the third
largest of the fresh-water seas, its surface being three-fourths that of Scotland; it is 335
m. long and 50 to 80 broad, bears much commerce, has low sandy shores and no islands; the chief
ports are Chicago, Milwaukee, and Racine.

MICKIEWICZ, ADAM, Polish poet, born in Lithuania, of a noble family; in 1822 published at Kovno
a collection of poems instinct with patriotic feeling; was exiled into the interior of Russia,
in 1824, for secret intrigues in the interest of his nation; while there published three epics,
conceived in the same patriotic spirit; left Russia in 1829 for Italy by way of Germany; was
warmly welcomed by Goethe in passing; in 1834 published his great poem "Sir Thaddeus," and
in 1840 was appointed to a professorship of Polish Literature in Paris, where to the last he
laboured for his country; died at Constantinople, whence his bones were transferred to lie
beside those of Kosciusko at Cracow (1798-1855).

MICKLE, WILLIAM JULIUS, translator of the "Lusiad" (q. v.), born at Langholm, in Dumfriesshire,
author of "There's nae Luck aboot the Hoose" (1734-1788).

MICROBE, a minute organism found in the blood of animals, especially when suffering from disease.
See BACTERIA.

MICROCOSM, name given by the Middle Age philosophers to man as representing the macrocosm or
universe in miniature.

MICROPHONE, an instrument invented in 1878 by Professor Hughes, and consisting of charcoal
tempered in mercury, which intensifies and renders audible the faintest possible sound.

MICROZYME, a minute organism which acts as a ferment when it enters the blood and produces
zymotic diseases.

MIDAS, a king of Phrygia who, in his lust of riches, begged of Bacchus and obtained the power
of turning everything he touched into gold, a gift which he prayed him to revoke when he found
it affected his very meat and drink, which the god consented to do, only he must bathe in the
waters of the Pactolus, the sands of which ever after were found mixed with gold; appointed
umpire at a musical contest between Pan and Apollo, he preferred the pipes of the former to
the lyre of the latter, who thereupon awarded him a pair of ass-ears, the which he concealed
with a cap, but could not hide them from his barber, who could not retain the secret, but whispered
it into a hole in the ground, around which sprang up a forest of reeds, which as the wind passed
through them told the tale into the general ear, to the owner's discomfiture.

MIDDLE AGES, is a term used in connection with European history to denote the period beginning
with the fall of the Roman Empire in 476, and closing with the invention of printing, the discovery
of America, and the revival of learning in the 15th century.

MIDDLE ENGLISH, the English in use for two centuries and a half from 1200 to 1460.

MIDDLE PASSAGE, in the slave-trade the part of the Atlantic stretching between Africa and the
West Indies.

MIDDLESBROUGH (99), iron manufacturing and shipping town at the mouth of the Tees, in the N.
of Yorkshire, 45 m. N. of York; has also shipbuilding yards and chemical works, and exports
coal. It owes its growth to the discovery of one of the largest iron-fields in the country
in the Cleveland hills, near at hand, in 1850.

MIDDLESEX (560), a small county on the N. of the Thames, adjacent to and W. of London; has
no hills and no rivers, only undulating pasture land and small streams. In 1888 the populous
part next the metropolis was detached for the new county of London, leaving no big town but
many suburban villages, Brentford, reckoned the county town, Harrow with its school, Highgate,
and Hornsey. Hampton Court, Hampstead Heath, and Enfield Chase are in the county. There are
many market gardens.

MIDDLETON, CONYERS, a liberal theologian, Fellow of Cambridge; was engaged a good deal in controversy,
particularly with Bentley; wrote an able Life of Cicero; is distinguished among English authors
for his "absolutely plain style" of writing (1683-1750).

MIDDLETON, THOMAS, dramatist, born in London, where he was afterwards City Chronicler, married
Mary Morbeck, and died; was fond of collaboration, and received assistance in his best work
from Drayton, Webster, Dekker, Rowley, and Jonson; his comedies are smart and buoyant, sometimes
indecorous; his masques more than usually elaborate and careful; in the comedy of "The Spanish
Gypsy," and the tragedies of "The Changeling," and "Women beware Women," is found the best
fruit of his genius (1570-1627).

MIDGARD, a name given in the Norse mythology to the earth as intermediate between the ASGARD
(q. v.) of the gods and UTGARD OF THE JÖTUNS (q. v.).

MIDIANITES, a race of Arabs descended from Abraham by Keturah, who dwelt to the E. of Akaba;
though related, were troublesome to the Hebrews, but were subdued by Gideon.

MIDRASH, the earliest Hebrew exposition of the Old Testament; included the Halacha, or development
of the legal system on Pentateuchal lines, and the Hagada, a commentary on the whole Scripture,
with ethical, social, and religious applications. The name Midrash came to refer exclusively
to the latter, in which much fanciful interpretation was mixed with sound practical sense.

MIGHTS AND RIGHTS, the Carlyle doctrine that Rights are nothing till they have realised and
established themselves as Mights; they are rights first only then.

MIGNE, THE ABBÉ, French Catholic theologian, born at St. Flour; edited a great many works on
theology, such as "Patrologiæ Cursus Completus," and "Orateurs Sacrés," and founded L'Univers
journal (1800-1875).

MIGNET, FRANÇOIS AUGUST, French historian, born at Aix, settled at Paris; was a friend of Thiers;
became keeper of the archives of the Foreign Office, and had thus access to important historical
documents; wrote a number of historical works, among others a "History of the French Revolution,"
and "History of Marie Stuart" (1796-1884).

MIGNON, an impassioned Italian child, a creation of Goethe's in his "Wilhelm Meister," of mysterious
origin and history; represented as a compact of vague aspirations and longings under which,
as never fulfilled, she at length pines away and dies.

MIGUEL, DON, king of Portugal, born at Lisbon; usurped the throne in defiance of the right
of his brother, Don Pedro, emperor of Brazil, who, however, conceded to him the title of regent
on condition of his marrying Donna Maria, his daughter; on his arrival in Portugal he had himself
proclaimed king, but refused to marry Maria, who followed him, and prohibited her landing,
which, together with his conduct of affairs, provoked a civil war, in which the party of Don
Pedro prevailed, and which ended in the capitulation of the usurper and his withdrawal to Italy
(1802-1866).

MIKADO, the emperor of Japan, regarded as the head of both Church and State in his dominions.

MIKLOSICH, FRANZ VON, philologist, born at Luttenberg, studied at Grätz; in 1844 was appointed
to an office in the Imperial Library, Vienna, where from 1850 to 1885 he was professor of Slavonic;
his works, all philological, are the authority on the Slavonic languages; b. 1813.

MILAN (296), the largest city in Italy except Naples, is in Lombardy, 25 m. S. of Lake Como;
of old much vexed by war, it is now prosperous, manufacturing silks and velvets, gold, silver,
and porcelain ware, and trading in raw silk, grain, and tobacco, with great printing works,
and is the chief banking centre of N. Italy; it is rich in architectural treasures, foremost
of which is the magnificent Gothic cathedral of white marble; has a splendid picture-gallery,
and many rich frescoes; in 1848 it revolted finally from Austrian oppression.

MILAN DECREE, a decree of Napoleon dated Milan, 27th Dec. 1807, declaring the British dominions
in a state of blockade, and under penalty prohibiting all trade with them.

MILETUS, the foremost Ionian city of ancient Asia Minor, at the mouth of the Mæander, was the
mother of many colonies, and the port from which vessels traded to all the Mediterranean countries
and to the Atlantic; its carpets and cloth were far-famed; its first greatness passed away
when Darius stormed it in 494 B.C., and it was finally ruined by the Turks; Thales the philosopher
and Cadmus the historian were among its famous sons.

MILITARY ORDERS were in crusading times associations of knights sworn to chastity and devoted
to religious service; the Hospitallers, the earliest, tended sick pilgrims at Jerusalem; the
Templars protected pilgrims and guarded the Temple; the Knights of St. John were also celibate,
but the orders of Alcantara and others in Spain, of St. Bennet in Portugal, and others elsewhere,
with different objects, were permitted to marry.

MILITIA, a body of troops in the British service for home defence, the members of which have
as a rule never served in the regular army, nor have, except for a short period each year,
any proper military training.

MILKY WAY. See GALAXY.

MILL, JAMES, economist, born in Logie Pert, near Montrose, the son of a shoemaker, bred for
the Church; was a disciple of Locke and Jeremy Bentham; wrote a "History of British India,"
"Elements of Political Economy," and an "Analysis of the Human Mind"; held an important lucrative
post in the East India Company's service (1773-1836).

MILL, JOHN STUART, logician and economist, born in London, son of the preceding; was educated
pedantically by his father; began to learn Greek at 3, could read it and Latin at 14, "never
was a boy," he says, and was debarred from all imaginative literature, so that in after years
the poetry of Wordsworth came to him as a revelation; entered the service of the East India
Company in 1823, but devoted himself to philosophic discussion; contributed to the Westminster
Review, of which he was for some time editor; published his "System of Logic" in 1843, and
in 1848 his "Political Economy"; entered Parliament in 1865, but lost his seat in 1868, on
which he retired to Avignon, where he died; he wrote a book on "Liberty" in 1859, on "Utilitarianism"
in 1863, on "Comte" in 1865, and on "Sir William Hamilton's Philosophy" the same year, and
left an "Autobiography"; he was a calm thinker and an impartial critic; he befriended Carlyle
when he went to London, and Carlyle rather took to him, but divergences soon appeared, which,
as it could not fail, ended in total estrangement; he had an Egeria in a Mrs. Taylor, whom
he married when she became a widow; it was she, it would almost seem, who was responsible for
the fate of Carlyle's MS. (1806-1873).

MILLAIS, SIR JOHN EVERETT, painter, born of Jersey parentage, at Southampton; studied at the
Royal Academy, and at 17 exhibited a notable historical work; early associated with Rossetti
and Holman Hunt, he remained for over 20 years under their influence; to this period belong
"The Carpenter's Shop," 1851, "Autumn Leaves," 1856, and "The Minuet," 1866; "The Gambler's
Wife" marks the transition from Pre-Raphaelitism; his chief subsequent work, in which technical
interest predominates, was portraiture, including Gladstone and Beaconsfield; he was a profuse
illustrator, and wrought some etchings; he was made R.A. 1864, a baronet in 1885, and P.R.A.
February 1896 (1829-1896).

MILLBANK PRISON, Westminster, constructed 1812-21 on the plans of Howard and Bentham, so that
each of its 1100 cells were visible from the governor's room, was used for solitary confinement
preparatory to penal servitude, and as a convict prison until 1886, and demolished 1890.

MILLER, HUGH, journalist and geologist, self-taught, born in Cromarty, of sailor ancestry;
began life as a stone-mason; editor of the Witness newspaper from 1839 till his death; wrote
the "Old Red Sandstone," "Footprints of the Creator," and the "Testimony of the Rocks," books
which awakened an interest in geological subjects, besides being the author of an account of
his life, "My Schools and Schoolmasters"; died by his own hand at Portobello; he was a writer
of considerable literary ability, and "nothing," says Prof. Saintsbury, "can be more hopelessly
unliterary than to undervalue Hugh Miller" (1802-1856).

MILLER, WILLIAM, line-engraver, lived at Millerfield, Edinburgh; famed for his engravings of
Turner; was a member of the Society of Friends, and stood high in his art as an engraver (1797-1882).

MILLET, JEAN FRANÇOIS, French painter of French peasant life, born near Greville, of a peasant
family; sent to Paris, studied under Paul Delaroche, withdrew into rustic life, and took up
his abode at the village of Barbizon, near the Forest of Fontainebleau, where he spent as a
peasant the rest of his life, honoured though poor by all his neighbours, and produced inimitable
pictures of French country life, completing his famous "Sower," and treating such subjects
as the "Gleaners," the "Sheep-Shearers," "Shepherdess and Flock," &c., with an evident appreciation
on his part of the life they depicted so faithfully (1814-1875).

MILMAN, HENRY HART, dean of St. Paul's, ecclesiastical historian, born in London; edited Gibbon's
"Decline and Fall," wrote "History of the Jews," "History of Christianity to the Abolition
of Paganism under the Empire," and "History of Latin Christianity," all learned works, particularly
the last in 9 vols., described by Dean Stanley as "a complete epic and philosophy of mediæval
Christianity"; was professor of Poetry at Oxford (1791-1865).

MILNE-EDWARDS, HENRI, eminent naturalist, born at Bruges, of English parentage; wrote extensively
and learnedly on natural history subjects, dissented from Darwin, and held to the theory of
different centres of creation, and to this he stoutly adhered to the last (1800-1885).

MILNER, VISCOUNT, High Commissioner of South Africa since 1897, and Governor of the Transvaal
and Orange River Colonies since 1901; a student of Balliol (graduating with a first class in
classics), and a Fellow of New College, Oxford; called to the bar in 1881; Private Secretary
to Mr. Goschen (1887-1889); Under-Secretary for Finance in Egypt (1889-1892); Chairman of the
Inland Revenue Board, from 1892 to 1897, when he succeeded Lord Rosmead at the Cape; represented
the Mother Country with great ability before and during the Boer War; visited England and raised
to the peerage in 1901; declined the Colonial Secretaryship in 1903; resigned in 1905; b. 1854.

MILNER, JOSEPH, Church historian; master of the Grammar School, Hull; his "History of the Church"
reaches down to the 16th century (1744-1797).

MILO, a celebrated athlete, born at Crotona, of extraordinary strength, said to have one day
carried a live bullock 120 paces along the Olympic course, killed it with his fist, and eaten
it up entire at one repast; in old age he attempted to split a tree, but it closed upon his
arm, and the wolves devoured him.

MILTIADES, an Athenian general, famous for his decisive defeat of the Persians at Marathon,
490 B.C.; failing in a naval attack on Paros, and fined to indemnify the cost of the expedition,
but unable to pay, was cast into prison, where he died of his wounds inflicted in the attempt.

MILTON, JOHN, poet, born in London, son of a scrivener; graduated at Cambridge, and settled
to study and write poetry in his father's house at Horton, 1632; in 1638 he visited Italy,
being already known at home as the author of the "Hymn on the Nativity," "Allegro," "Penseroso,"
"Comus," a mask, and "Lycidas," an elegy on his friend King, who was drowned in the Irish Sea
in 1637, besides much excellent Latin verse; the outbreak of the Civil War recalled him, and
silenced his muse for many years; settling in London he took pupils, married in 1643 Mary Powell,
and became active as a writer of pamphlets on public questions; his first topic was Church
Government, then his wife's desertion of him for two years called forth his tracts on Divorce,
a threatened prosecution for which elicited in turn the "Areopagitica, a Speech for the Liberty
of Unlicensed Printing"; his father died in 1647, his wife in 1652; under the Common wealth
he was "Secretary of Foreign Tongues," and successfully defended the execution of Charles I.
in his Latin "Defence of the English People," and other bitter controversial works; he married
in 1656 his second wife, who died two years later; the Restoration gave him back to leisure
and poetry; his greatest work, "Paradise Lost," was composed rapidly, dictated to his daughters,
and completed in 1663, but not published till 1667; 1671 saw "Paradise Regained" and "Samson
Agonistes"; he had been blind since 1652; he married Elizabeth Minshull in 1663, who comforted
him in his closing years; a man of fervent, impulsive temperament, and a lover of music, he
was sincere in controversy, magnanimous in character, and of deep religious faith; the richness,
melody, and simplicity of his poetry, the sublimity of his great theme, and the adequacy of
its treatment, place him among the greatest poets of the world; in later years he leaned to
Arianism, and broke away from the restraints of outward religious practice; his last prose
work, a Latin treatise on "Christian Doctrines," was lost at the time of his death, and only
recovered 150 years later (1608-1674).

MILWAÜKEE (285), chief city of Wisconsin, U.S., on W. shore of Lake Michigan, 80 miles N. by
W. of Chicago. Exports grain, iron ore, &c.; manufactures flour, machinery, and pig-iron.

MIMES, dramatic performances among the Greeks and Romans, in comic representation of scenes
in ordinary life, often in extempore dialogue.

MIMIR, in the Norse mythology the god of wisdom, guardian of the sacred well which nourished
the roots of the TREE IGGDRASIL (q. v.), and a draught of whose waters imparted divine wisdom.

MINARETS, a salient feature of Mohammedan architecture, are tall slim towers, in several storeys
with balconies, from which the muezzin calls the people to prayer, and terminated by a spire
or finial.

MINERVA, the Roman virgin goddess of wisdom and the arts, identified with the GREEK ATHENA
(q. v.); born full-armed from the brain of Jupiter, and representing his thinking, calculating,
inventive power, and third in rank to him.

MINERVA PRESS, a printing establishment in Leadenhall Street, London, which about a century
ago issued a set of trashy, extremely sentimental novels with complicated plots, in which hero
and heroine were involved before they could get married.

MINGHETTI, MARCO, Italian patriot and statesman, born at Bologna; a man of liberal views; a
friend and associate of Cavour; held office under him as Minister of the Interior in 1862;
was ambassador to the Court of St. James's in 1868, and Prime Minister at Rome from 1873 to
1876 (1818-1886)

MINIMS, an order of monks founded by St. Francis of Paula in 1453, a name which signifies "the
least" to express super-humility.

MINNEAPOLIS (203), city of U.S., Minnesota, on both sides of the Mississippi, the greatest
centre of the wheat and flour trade in U.S.

MINNESINGERS (i. e. love-singers), a name given to the lyric poets of Germany during the latter
part of the 12th and the first half of the 13th centuries.

MINNESOTA (1,302), one of the United States of America; lies between the Dakotas on the W.
and Wisconsin on the E., Canada on the N., and Iowa on the S., round the upper waters of the
Mississippi, the St. Lawrence, and the Red River of the North; the State is largely prairie,
with hundreds of lakes, the largest Red Lake, and is chiefly a wheat-producing area; there
are pine forests in the N., iron mines, slate and granite quarries; the climate is dry, equable,
and bracing; education is good; the State university is at Minneapolis; the capital is ST.
PAUL (133), where the Mississippi is still navigable, a fine city, founded in 1840, the centre
of the grocery and dry-goods trade; the largest city is Minneapolis (203), which has great
lumber and flour mills; Duluth (33) has a magnificent harbour and good shipping trade.

MINORCA (34), the second of the Balearic Isles, hilly, with stalactite caves and rocky coast;
is less fertile than Majorca, from which it is 25 m. distant NE.; it produces oil, wine, and
fruits, and makes boots and shoes, but under Spanish misrule is not prosperous; the capital
Mahon (17), in the SE., is strongly fortified, and has a good harbour.

MINOS, an ancient king of Crete, celebrated for his administration of justice; was fabled to
have been appointed, along with Æacus and Rhadamanthus, one of the judges of the dead on their
descent into the nether world.

MINOTAUR, in the Greek mythology a monster, half-man half-bull with a bull's head, confined
in the Labyrinth of Crete, fed by the annual tribute of seven youths and seven maidens of Athenian
birth, till he was slain by Theseus with the help of ARIADNE (q. v.).

MINSTRELS, a body of men who during the Middle Ages wandered from place to place, especially
from court to court, singing their own compositions to the harp for accompaniment.

MINTO, EARL OF, Governor-General of India; was bred to the bar, served in Parliament and as
ambassador, went out to India in 1806, consolidated the British power, captured Java, and opened
diplomatic relations with powers around (17501814).

MIRABEAU, GABRIEL HONORÉ RIQUETTI, COMTE DE, son of the succeeding, born at the mansion-house
of Bignon; was a man of massive intellect and strong physical frame, who came to the front
in the French Revolution; being expelled from his order by the noblesse of Provence, he ingratiated
himself with the Third Estate, and was elected commons-deputy of Aix to the States-General
in 1789, where he became, as the incarnation of the whole movement, the ruling spirit of the
hour, and gave proof, if he had lived, of being able to change the whole course of the Revolution,
for he was already in communication with the court and in hopes of gaining it over to accept
the inevitable, when he sickened and died, to the consternation of the entire people, whose
affection and confidence he had won (1749-1791). See CARLYLE'S "FRENCH REVOLUTION" and his
Essay in his "MISCELLANIES."

MIRABEAU, VICTOR RIQUETTI, MARQUIS DE, "crabbed old friend of men," born at Pertuis, in Provence,
claimed to be of Florentine descent; "could never make the world go to his mind," and set about
reforming it by coercing a family as self-willed as himself, to the driving of his celebrated
son to desperate courses and reckless excesses; advocated the doctrines of the French economists
in a series of writings instinct with a certain theoretical philanthropy (1716-1783).

MIRACLE PLAYS were strictly speaking dramas founded on legends of the saints, as distinct from
mysteries founded on scriptural subjects, but the name came to cover all those religious representations
for the instruction of the people fostered by the Church of the Middle Ages, performed first
in churches, afterwards in public places; they were common in England from the 12th century,
but latterly became corrupt through the introduction of grotesque indecorous comicalities;
the rise of the drama led to their abandonment; on the Continent ecclesiastical action was
taken against them, not by the Reformers, but by the Church itself in the 18th century, and
everywhere they have all but disappeared; the Passion Play acted every 10 years at Oberammergau,
Bavaria, is the only important survival.

MIRANDA, the beautiful daughter of the magician Prospero in Shakespeare's "Tempest."

MIRANDA, FRANCESCO DE, a Portuguese poet; wrote sonnets and epistles in verse; was predecessor
of Camoëns (1495-1558).

MISERERE, a carved bracket on the under side of the stall seats in mediæval churches, which,
when the seat was turned up during the standing portion of the service, afforded support to
the older clergy. Miserere, the Catholic name for the 51st Psalm.

MISHNA, the oral law of the Jews, which is divided into six parts, and constitutes the text
of the Talmud, of which the Gemara is the commentary.

MISPRISION, a high offence under, but close upon, the degree of a capital one; misprision of
treason being a concealment of a felony without consenting to it.

MISSAL, a book containing the service of the mass for the entire year, such as is now in almost
universal use throughout the Catholic world.

MISSISSIPPI (1,290), an American State on the E. bank of the Lower Mississippi, abutting on
the Gulf of Mexico, between Louisiana and Alabama; has a hilly surface, traversed by numerous
rivers, the Yazoo, a tributary of the Mississippi, forming a great fertile delta; the climate
is free from extremes; the chief industry is agriculture; the best crops are grown in the N.,
and on the alluvial bottom lands; in the centre and NE. are good grazing farms; cotton, corn,
oats, and fruits are the chief crops; virgin forests of hardwood cover much of the delta; valuable
deposits of pipe and ochre clays and of lignite are found; cotton is manufactured, and there
is trade in lumber; more than half the population is coloured, and the races are kept distinct
in the State schools; the State university is at Oxford, and there are many other colleges;
Jackson (6), the capital, is the chief railway centre, Meridian (10) has iron manufactures,
Vicksburg (13) and Natchez (10) are the chief riverports; Mississippi was colonised by the
French in 1699, ceded to Britain 1763, admitted to the Union 1817, joined the South in 1861,
but was readmitted to the Union in 1869.

MISSISSIPPI RIVER rises in Lake Itaska, Minnesota, and flowing S. for 2800 m., enters the Gulf
of Mexico by a large delta; its earlier course is through picturesque country, often in gorges,
with rapids such as the St. Anthony Falls, the Des Moines and Rock Island Rapids. After receiving
the Missouri, 3000 m. long, from the Rocky Mountains, it flows 2½ m. per hour through great
alluvial plains, which are protected from its overflows by hundreds of miles of earth embankments,
and is joined by the Ohio from the E., the Red and Arkansas Rivers from the W., and many other
navigable streams. The Mississippi is navigable by large steamers for 2000 m.; St. Louis, Memphis,
Vicksburg, Natchez, and New Orleans are among the chief ports on its banks.

MISSISSIPPI SCHEME was started in France 1717 by John Law and the Government, ostensibly to
develop the Mississippi basin, but really to ease the pressure on the exchequer; a company
was formed and empowered to monopolise almost all the foreign trade; 624,000 shares were issued;
depreciated paper currency was accepted in payment, and the national bank issued notes without
stint; in 1719 the demand for shares was enormous; the nation was completely carried away;
next year the crash came; the Government made every effort to save the position, but in vain;
the distress was extreme, and Law had to leave the country.

MISSOLONGHI (6), Greek seaport and fishing town, on the Gulf of Patras, chiefly noted for heroic
defences in the War of Independence 1821-1826, and as the place of Byron's death 1824.

MISSOURI (2,679), an American State on the right bank of the Mississippi, between Iowa and
Arkansas, is half the size of the British Isles, and is traversed by the Missouri River; N.
of that river the country is level, S. of it there rise the Ozark tablelands; the soil is very
fertile, and the State principally agricultural; immense crops of maize, oats, potatoes, cotton,
and tobacco are raised; there are large cattle ranches, and dressed beef and pork are largely
exported; the climate is subject to extremes; coal, iron, lead, zinc, and other minerals abound,
while marble, granite, and limestone are quarried; the rivers afford excellent transport facilities;
the educational system is very complete; admitted to the Union in 1821, Missouri was divided
in the Civil War, and suffered terribly, but since then has been very prosperous; the capital,
St. Louis (452), is one of the greatest commercial and manufacturing towns in the Union, does
a vast trade in grain and cotton, and has hardware, leather goods, and tobacco factories; Kansas
City (133), has great pork-packing establishments and railroad iron-works.

MISTRAL, FREDERICK, poet of Southern France, born near Maillaune, was a peasant's son, and
himself a peasant; his fame rose on the publication of the epic, "Mirèio," in Provençal dialect,
1859; in 1867 he published "Calendou," and in 1876 a volume of songs, and in 1884 "Nerto,"
a novel; b. 1830.

MITFORD, MARY RUSSELL, authoress, born at Alresford, Hants, lived with her father, an extravagant
physician, at Lyme Regis and London; she published poems in 1810-11-12, but, forced to earn
a living, took to dramatic work; "Julian," "The Foscari," and "Rienzi" were successful if ephemeral
tragedies; her best work was "Our Village," sketches of homely English life written with much
care, and after appearing in the London Magazine, published in 5 vols., 1824-32 (1786-1855).

MITFORD, WILLIAM, English author; wrote a "History of Greece" and on the "English Metre, or
the Harmony of Language" (1744-1827).

MITHRAS (i. e. the Friend), the highest of the second order of deities in the ancient Persian
religion, the friend of man in this life and his protector against evil in the world to come,
sided with Ormuzd against Ahriman, incarnated in the sun, and represented as a youth kneeling
on a bull and plunging a dagger into his neck, while he is at the same time attacked by a dog,
a serpent, and a scorpion.

MITHRIDATES THE GREAT, surnamed Eupator, king of Pontus from 123 to 63 B.C.; an implacable
enemy of the Romans, between whom and him there raged from 90 to 63 a succession of wars, till
he was defeated by Pompey near the Euphrates, when, being superseded by his son, he put an
end to his life; he was a great man and conqueror, subdued many surrounding nations, and was
a collector of works of art; he made a special study of poisons, and familiarised himself with
all their antidotes, in view of possible attempts by means of them to take away his life.

MITRAILLEUSE, a gun consisting of several, as many as 25, barrels, from which a number of shots
may be fired simultaneously or in rapid succession, used by the French in the Franco-German War.

MIVART, ST. GEORGE, naturalist, a Roman Catholic professor at Louvain, distinguished for his
opposition to Darwinianism; b. 1827.

MNEMOSYNË in the Greek mythology the daughter of Uranos, the goddess of memory, and the mother
of the Muses by Zeus.

MOA, the name of several species of New Zealand and Australian birds, from 2 to 14 ft. high,
and quite wingless; almost extinct since the 17th century; two living specimens were captured
in 1876.

MOAB, a pastoral region extending along the E. of lower parts of the Jordan and the Dead Sea,
and inhabited by the descendants of Lot, now extinct, or merged among the Arabs.

MOABITE STONE, a stone 4 ft. high and 2 ft. broad found by Dr. Klein in 1868 among the ruins
of Dhiban, a town in Moab, now in the Louvre at Paris, describing a victory of the Moabites
over the Israelites; it was broken by the Arabs, but the fragments have been collected and
put into their proper places.

MOBILE (31), a city and port of Alabama, U.S., 30 m. N. of the Gulf of Mexico; a thriving place;
exports cotton, lumber, &c.

MOBILIER CRÉDIT, a banking and financial company founded in Paris in 1852; lends money on security
of property other than real, and takes shares in public schemes, such as railways.

MODENA (31), Italian town, 62 m. N. of Florence; has a cathedral, with noted campanile, university,
library, and art collections, and manufactures silk and leather; capital of a duchy (303);
incorporated in the kingdom of Italy 1860.

MODERN ATHENS, Edinburgh, from its resemblance to Athens and its repute for literary culture;
applied also to Boston, in America.

MODERN BABYLON, London, from its huge extent and the miscellaneous character of its inhabitants.

MODJESKA, HELENA, actress, born in Cracow; went on the stage after her first marriage in 1861,
and from 1868 to 1876 was the favourite of Warsaw; retired to California on her second marriage,
but returned to the stage, having learned English in seven months in California 1877, and till
her final retirement in 1895, was eminently successful in America and Britain in such parts
as Rosalind, Beatrice, &c.

MODRED, SIR, a treacherous knight, the rebellious nephew of King Arthur, whose wife he seduced;
was slain in battle, and buried in Avalon.

MOFFAT, ROBERT, African missionary, born at Ormiston, Haddingtonshire; the scene of his nearly
lifelong labours was among the Bechuanas in South Africa, whom he raised from a savage to a
civilised state; he was sent out in 1816 by the London Missionary Society. He married (1819)
Mary Smith, a daughter of his former employer at Dunkinfield.

MOHAMMED, great prophet of the Arabs, and founder of Islamism, born at Mecca, the son of Abdallah,
of the tribe of the Koreish; left an orphan, brought up by his uncle Abu Taleb; became steward
to a rich WIDOW KADIJAH (q. v.) whom he married; was given to serious meditation, would retire
into solitude and pray, and one day, by the favour of Heaven, got answer which left him "in
doubt and darkness no longer, but saw it all," saw into the vanity of all that was not God,
that He alone was great, inconceivably great; that it was with Him alone we had to do, we must
all submit to Him; this revelation made to him he imparted to Kadijah, and after a time she
assented, and his heart leaped for joy; he spoke or his doctrine to this man and that, but
made slow progress in persuading others to believe it; made only 13 converts in 3 years; his
preaching gave offence to the chief people, and his relatives tried hard to persuade him to
hold his peace, but he would not; after 13 years a conspiracy was formed to take his life,
and he fled, through peril after peril, to Medina, in his fifty-third year, and in 622 of our
era; his enemies had taken up the sword against him, and he now replied with the same weapon,
and in 10 years he prevailed; it was a war against idolatry in all its forms, and idolatry
was driven to the wall, the motto on his banner "God is Great," a motto with a depth of meaning
greater than the Mohammedan world, and perhaps the Christian, has yet realised; it is for one
thing a protest on the part of Mohammed, in which the Hebrew prophets forestalled him, against
all attempts to understand the Deity and fathom "His ways, which are ever in the deep, and
whose footsteps are not known" (571-631).

MOHAMMEDANISM, the religion of MOHAMMED, or ISLAM, (q. v.), is essentially much the same as
the religion of the Jews with some elements borrowed from the Christian religion, and is defined
by Carlyle as a bastard Christianity; originating in Arabia it spread rapidly over the W. of
Asia, the N. of Africa, and threatened at one time to overrun Europe itself; it is the religion
to-day of two hundred millions of the human race, and the profession of it extends over a wide
area in western and southern Asia as also in northern Africa, though its limits in Europe do
not extend beyond the bounds of Turkey.

MOHAWK, a tribe of American Indians, gave name to a band or club of ruffians who infested the
streets of London in 1711-12.

MOHIC`ANS, an American Indian tribe, took sides with the English settlers against the French
and with the former against England.

MOHL, JULIUS, Orientalist, born in Stuttgart; edited the "Shah Nameh" of Firdushi, a monumental
work (1800-1876).

MÖHLER, JOHANN ADAM, a Roman Catholic theologian, born at Würtemberg, author of "Symbolik,"
a work which discusses the differences between the doctrines of Catholics and Protestants,
as evidenced in their respective symbolical books, a work which created no small stir in the
theological world (1796-1838).

MOIR, DAVID MACBETH, the "Delta" of Blackwood, born in Musselburgh, where he practised as a
physician; was author of "Mansie Waugh" (1798-1851).

MOIRA, FRANCIS RAWDON-HASTINGS, EARL OF, son of the Earl of Moira; entered the army 1771, and
served against the Americans in the War of Independence; created Baron Rawdon in 1783; succeeded
to his father's title 1793; entered political life under Fox, and was Governor-General of India
1813-23, in which period fell the Goorkha War, for the successful negotiations subsequent on
which he was created Marquis of Hastings; his administration encouraged native education and
freedom of the press; from 1824 he was Governor of Malta till his death at Naples (1754-1826).

MOKANNA, AL, "the veiled one," a name given to Hakim ben Allah, who wore a veil to hide the
loss of an eye; he professed to be an incarnation of the Deity and to work miracles; found
followers; founded a sect at Khorassan; seized some fortresses, but was overthrown at Kash
A.D. 780, whereupon he took poison.

MOLDAU, largest river in Bohemia, rises on the N. of the Böhmerwald Mountains, flows SE. along
their base, then turns northward through Bohemia, passes Budweis, becomes navigable, is 100
yards broad at Prague, and joins the Elbe at Melnik after flowing 278 m.

MOLDAVIA, once independent, now the northern division of Roumania, lies between the Carpathians
and the Pruth River, and is well watered by the Sereth; its chief town is Jassy, in the NE.

MOLÉ, LOUIS MATTHIEU, COMTE, French statesman, born in Paris; published in 1805 an essay on
politics which, defending Napoleon, won for its author a series of minor offices, and in 1813
a peerage and a seat in the Cabinet; retaining power under Louis XVIII. and Louis Philippe,
he was Minister of Marine 1817, Foreign Minister 1830, and Premier 1837, but retired from politics
two years later (1781-1855).

MOLECULE, the smallest particle of which an element or a compound body is composed, and that
retains all the properties in a free state.

MOLESWORTH, SIR WILLIAM, British statesman, born in London; was an advanced Liberal; editor
and proprietor of the Westminster Review; edited the works of Hobbes (1810-1855).

MOLIÈRE, JEAN BAPTISTE POQUELIN, great French comic dramatist, born in Paris; studied law and
passed for the bar, but evinced from the first a proclivity for the theatre, and soon associated
with actors, and found his vocation as a writer of plays, which procured him the friendship
of Lafontaine, Boileau, and other distinguished men, though he incurred the animosity of many
classes of society by the ridicule which he heaped on their weaknesses and their pretensions,
the more that in his satires his characters are rather abstract types of men than concrete
individualities; his principal pieces are, "Les Précieuses Ridicules," "L'École des Femmes,"
"Le Tartuffe," "Le Misanthrope," "George Dandin," "L'Avare," "Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme," "Les
Fourberies de Scapin," "Le Malade malgré Lui," "Les Femmes Savantes," and "Le Malade Imaginaire";
though seriously ill, he took part in the performance of this last, but the effort was too
much for him, and he died that night; from the grudge which the priests bore him for his satires
on them he was buried without a religious service (1622-1673).

MOLINA, LUIS, a Spanish Jesuit and theologian, author of a theory called Molinism, which resolves
the doctrine of predestination into a mere foreknowledge of those who would accept and those
who would reject the grace of God in salvation.

MOLINOS, MIGUEL DE, a Spanish theologian, born at Saragossa; published a book called the "Spiritual
Guide," which, as containing the germ of Quietism, was condemned by the Inquisition, and its
author sentenced to imprisonment for life (1627-1696).

MOLLAH, a judge of the highest rank among the Turks on matters of law, both civil and sacred.

MOLLWITZ, a village in Silesia, 20 m. SE. of Breslau, where Frederick the Great defeated the
Austrians 1741.

MOLOCH or MOLECH, the chief god of the Ammonites, the worship of whom, which prevailed among
all the Canaanites, was accompanied with cruelties, human sacrifices among others, revolting
to the humane spirit of the Jewish religion; originally it appears to have been the worship
of fire, through which the innocent as well as the guilty have often to pass for the achievement
of the noblest enterprises, which degenerated at length into selfish sacrifices of others for
interests of one's own, into the substitution of the innocent for the guilty by way of atonement
to the Deity!

MOLTKE, COUNT VON, surnamed the Silent, great German field marshal, born in Mecklenburg-Schwerin,
of an old family; was pre-eminent as a military strategist, planned and conducted the Prussian
campaign against Austria in 1866, and the German campaign against France in 1870-72; was in
the service of Denmark before he entered the Prussian (1800-1891).

MOLUCCAS or SPICE ISLANDS (400), an archipelago of mountainous islands, mostly volcanic, between
Celebes and New Guinea, is in two main groups; in the N. the largest island is Jilolo, but
the most important Tidor and Ternate, which export spices, tortoise-shell, and bees-wax; in
the S. Buru and Ceram are largest, most important, Amboyna, from which come cloves; the people
are civilised Malays; the islands are equatorial, but tempered by sea-breezes, and healthy;
discovered by the Portuguese in 1521, they have been in Dutch possession since 1607, except
when held by Britain 1810-1814.

MOMBASA (Africans and Arabs 20), capital of British East Africa, on a rocky islet, close inshore,
50 m. N. of Pemba; was ceded with a tract of country six times the size of the British Isles,
and rich in gold, copper, plumbago, and india-rubber, to the British East African Company by
the Sultan of Zanzibar in 1888, since when it has been rebuilt, and the harbour, one of the
best and healthiest on the coast, made a naval coaling-station and head-quarters.

MOMMSEN, THEODOR, historian, born in Schleswig, a man of immense historical knowledge; his
greatest work the "History of Rome"; was professor of Ancient History at Berlin; his forte
was his learning more than his critical capacity; b. 1817.

MOMUS, the god of raillery, the son of Night, a kind of ancient MEPHISTOPHELES (q. v.).

MONACHISM, or MONASTICISM, is an institution in which individuals devote themselves, apart
from others, to the cultivation of spiritual contemplation and religious duties, and which
has constituted a marked feature in Pre-Christian Jewish asceticism, and in Buddhism as well
as in Christianity; in the Church it developed from the practice of living in solitude in the
2nd century, and received its distinctive note when the vow of obedience to a superior was
added to the hermit's personal vows of poverty and chastity; the movement of St. Benedict in
the 6th century stamped its permanent form on Western Monasticism, and that of St. Francis
in the 12th gave it a more comprehensive range, entrusting the care of the poor, the sick,
the ignorant, &c., to the hitherto self-centred monks and nuns; during the Middle Ages the
monasteries were centres of learning, and their work in copying and preserving both sacred
and secular literature has been invaluable; English Monachism was swept away at the Reformation;
in France at the Revolution; and later in Spain, Portugal, and Italy it has been suppressed;
brotherhoods and sisterhoods have sprung up in the Protestant churches of Germany and England,
but in all of them the vows taken are revocable.

MONACO (13), a small principality 9 m. E. of Nice, on the Mediterranean shore, surrounded by
French territory and under French protection; has a mild salubrious climate, and is a favourite
winter resort. The capital, MONACO, is built on a picturesque promontory, and 1 m. NE. stands
Monte Carlo.

MONAD, the name given by Leibnitz to one of the active simple elementary substances, the plurality
of which in their combinations or combined activities constitutes in his regard the universe
both spiritual and physical; it denotes in biology an elementary organism.

MONAGHAN (82), an inland Ulster county, Ireland, surrounded by Louth, Armagh, Tyrone, Fermanagh,
Cavan, and Meath; is undulating, with many small lakes and streams; grows flax and manufactures
linen, and has limestone and slate quarries. The chief towns are CLONES (2), and the county-town
MONAGHAN (3), which has a produce market.

MONBODDO, JAMES BURNETT, LORD, a Scottish judge, born in Kincardineshire, an eccentric writer,
author of a "Dissertation on the Origin of Language" and of "Ancient Metaphysics"; had original
fancies on the origin, particularly of the human race from the monkey, conceived not so foolish
to-day as they were then (1714-1799).

MONCREIFF, SIR HENRY WELLWOOD, Scottish clergyman, born at Blackford; from 1775 to 1827 minister
of St. Cuthbert's, Edinburgh, and leader of the evangelical party of the Scottish Church.

MONCREIFF, JAMES W., LORD, second son of preceding, eminent Scottish judge; was the author
of the Veto Act which led to the Disruption of 1843 (1776-1851).

MONCREIFF, SIR HENRY W., son of preceding, became a Free Church minister, and was Principal
Clerk of the General Assembly of the Free Church; an authority on Church law (1809-1885).

MONCREIFF, JAMES, brother of preceding, bred for the Scottish bar; was Lord Advocate of Scotland
under four administrations; was appointed Lord Justice-Clerk in 1860; was raised to the peerage
in 1874 (1811-1895).

MOND, LUDWIG, distinguished technical chemist and inventor, born at Cassel, in Germany; was
a pupil of Kolbe and Bunsen, and has made important additions to chemical-industrial processes
and products; b. 1839.

MONEY, defined by Ruskin to be "a documentary claim to wealth, and correspondent in its nature
to the title-deed of an estate."

MONGE, GASPARD, celebrated French mathematician, born at Beaune; one of the founders of the
Polytechnic School in Paris (1746-1818).

MONGOLS, a great Asiatic people having their original home on the plains E. of Lake Baikal,
Siberia, who first rose into prominence under their ruler Genghis Khan in the 12th century;
he, uniting the three branches of Mongols, commenced a career of conquest which made him master
of all Central Asia; his sons divided his empire, and pursued his conquests; a Mongol emperor
seized the throne of China in 1234, and from this branch sprang the great Kublai Khan, whose
house ruled an immense territory 1294-1368. Another section pushed westwards as far as Moravia
and Hungary, taking Pesth in 1241, and founded the immense empire over which Tamerlane held
sway. A third but later movement, springing from the ruins of these earlier empires, was that
of Baber, who conquered India, and founded the Great Mogul line, 1519. Now Mongols are constituent
elements in the populations of China, Russian, and Turkish Asia.

MONICA, ST., the mother of St. Augustine, who became to him the symbol of "the highest he knew
on earth, bowing before a Higher in heaven."

MONISM, the name given to the principle of any system of philosophy which resolves the manifold
of the universe into the evolution of some unity in opposition to DUALISM (q. v.).

MONK, GEORGE, DUKE OF ALBEMARLE, general and admiral, was a Devonshire man, who spent his youth
in the Dutch wars, and returned to England just in time to side with Charles I. against the
Parliament; after leading a regiment in Ireland, he was captured at Nantwich in 1644, and spent
two years in the Tower; obtaining his release by changing sides, he won commendation from Cromwell
at Dunbar in 1650, and was entrusted with the command of operations in Scotland afterwards;
in 1653 he beat Van Tromp at sea, twice; from 1654 till 1660 he was Governor of Scotland; on
the death of Cromwell he saw the confusion, marched with 6000 troops to London, and after cautious
negotiations, brought Charles II. to England and set him on the throne, receiving a peerage
and many honours for reward; he behaved well as Governor of London in the plague year, and
was again admiral in the Dutch wars of 1666 (1608-1670).

MONMOUTH, GEOFFREY, a Welsh priest of the 12th century, compiler of what he called a "History
of the Early Kings of Britain," from that of Brut, through the story of King Arthur and others,
such as King Lear, down to that of Cadwallo, a Welsh king, who died in 689.

MONMOUTH, JAMES, DUKE OF, illegitimate son of Charles II., born at Rotterdam; was admitted
to Court after the Restoration, and received his title in 1663; his manners and his Protestantism
brought him popular favour in spite of his morals, and by-and-by plots were formed to secure
the succession for him; forced to fly to Holland in 1683, he waited till his father's death,
then planned a rebellion with Argyll; Argyll failed in Scotland; Monmouth, landing in Dorsetshire
1685, was soon overthrown at Sedgemoor, taken prisoner, and executed (1649-1685).

MONMOUTHSHIRE (252), a west of England county lying N. of the Severn estuary, between Glamorgan
and Gloucestershire; is low and flat in the S., but otherwise hilly, and is traversed by the
Usk River; more than half the surface is under permanent pasture; the wealth of Monmouthshire
consists of coal and iron-stone; Monmouth (5), the county town, is the centre of beautiful
scenery, and has some fine buildings.

MONOPHYSITES, a body of heretics who arose in the 5th century and maintained that the divine
and human natures in Christ were united in one divine-human nature, so that He was neither
wholly divine nor wholly human, but in part both.

MONOTHEISM, belief in the existence of one God, or the divine unity, or that the Divine Being,
whether twofold, as in dualism, threefold, as in Trinitarianism, is in essence and in manifestation
one.

MONOTHELISM, a heresy which arose in the 7th century, in which it was maintained that, though
in Christ there were two natures, there was but One Will, viz., the Divine.

MONRO, ALEXANDER, founder of Edinburgh Medical School, born of Scotch parentage in London;
studied there, and at Paris and Leyden, and was appointed lecturer on Anatomy by the Surgeons'
Company at Edinburgh in 1719; two years later he became professor, and in 1725 was admitted
to the University; he was a principal promoter and early clinical lecturer in the Royal Infirmary,
and continued his clinical work after resigning his chair to his son Alexander; he wrote several
medical works, and was a Fellow of the Royal Society; he was called primus, to distinguish
him from his son and grandson, who were called respectively secundus and tertius, and were
professors of Anatomy in Edinburgh like himself (1697-1767).

MONROE, JAMES, American President, born in Virginia, of Scottish descent; left college to join
Washington's army; was wounded in the war, and studying law, entered Congress in 1783; he assisted
in framing the Constitution, and sat in the Senate 1790-1794; his diplomatic career in France
was marked by the purchase of Louisiana from that country in 1803; he was governor of Virginia
thrice over, and Secretary of State till 1817; then followed two terms of the Presidency, during
which Florida was acquired from Spain 1819, the delimitation of the slave limit by the Missouri
compromise, the recognition of the South American Republics, and the statement of the "MONROE
DOCTRINE" (q. v.); in his later years his generosity led him into debt, and he spent his closing
days with relations in New York (1758-1831).

MONROE DOCTRINE, the doctrine of James Monroe, twice over President of the United States, that
the United States should hold aloof from all interference with the affairs of the Old World,
and should not suffer the Powers of the Old World to interfere with theirs.

MONSON, SIR EDWARD, English diplomatist; entered the diplomatic service in 1856, and after
service at various courts, became ambassador at Paris in 1896; b. 1834.

MONSOON originally denoted a periodical wind in the Indian Ocean, which blows from SW. from
April to October, and from NE. from October to April; now denotes any wind connected with a
continent regularly recurring with the seasons.

MONSTRANCE, a transparent pyx on which the Host is exhibited on the altar to the people, or
conveyed in public procession.

MONT BLANC, in the Graian Alps, on the French-Italian frontier, the highest mountain in Europe,
15,782 ft., the upper half under perpetual snow; has 56 magnificent glaciers, including the
Mer-de-Glace; it was first climbed by Balmat and Paccard in 1786, and since then has been many
times ascended, now by 50 parties every year.

MONT CENIS, an Alpine peak (12,000 ft.) on the Savoy-Piedmont frontier and the adjacent pass,
over which a road was constructed 1802-1810, and near which a railway tunnel was pierced (1857-70)
at a cost of £3,000,000.

MONT DE PIÉTÉ, an institution to lend money to the poor at little or no interest, first established
in the 15th century, a time when lending to the poor was as much a work of mercy as giving
to them; a public pawnbroking establishment, so called in France.

MONTAGNARDS. See MOUNTAIN, THE.

MONTAGU, LADY MARY WORTLEY, an English lady, born in Nottinghamshire, celebrated for her wit
and beauty, and for her "Letters on the Manners of the East" (1690-1762).

MONTAIGNE, MICHEL DE, a sceptico-speculative thinker and moralist, born in the Château of Montaigne,
Périgord; an easy-going mortal, but a keen observer of the ways and manners of other people,
which some experience in travel gave him opportunities to do, as well as the study of the old
classic Latin authors; his fame rests on his "Essays," in which he records his observations
of mankind, but in which, from a decided descendental twist he had, he betrays a rather low
idea of the morale of the race; the book, however, is a favourite with all observant people
of education, and a translation of it by Florio is the one book we know for certain to have
been in the library of Shakespeare; bred as he was by his father's arrangement among the common
people, he always retained a friendly feeling towards his neighbours, and they cherished towards
him feelings of very high regard; he was a quiet, tolerant man, and his writings reveal a character
which commands the respect of men who affect a much higher level of thinking than that occupied
by himself (1533-1592).

MONTALEMBERT, COMTE DE, a French politician, born in London, son of a French emigrant; was
associated with Lamennais and Lacordaire in the conduct of the Avenir, an Ultramontane Liberal
organ, and spent his life in advocating the cause of a free unfettered system of national education;
wrote the "Monks of the West," his chief work (1810-1870).

MONTANA (132), a State of the American Union, in the NW., lies along the Canadian border between
Idaho and the Dakotas, with Wyoming on the S.; has a mild climate, and a soil which, with irrigation,
produces fine crops of grain and vegetables. Cattle-raising is profitable, but the chief industry
is mining, in the Rocky Mountains, which occupy a fifth of the State. There gold, silver, copper,
and lead abound. The Missouri and the Columbia Rivers rise in Montana, and the Yellowstone
traverses the whole State. The State was admitted to the Union in 1889, with Helena (9) as capital.

MONTANISM, a heresy which arose in the 2nd century; derived its name from an enthusiast in
Phrygia named Montanus, who insisted on the permanency of the spiritual gifts vouchsafed to
the primitive Church, and a return to the severe discipline of life and character prevailing in it.

MONTCALM DE SAINT VÉRAN, LOUIS JOSEPH, MARQUIS DE, born near Nîmes; entered the army early,
and at forty-four was field-marshal and commander of the forces in Quebec against the English;
the capture of Forts Oswego and William Henry and the defence of Ticonderoga were followed
by the loss of Louisburg and Fort Duquesne and the retreat on Quebec, where, surprised by Wolfe
in 1759, he was totally defeated, and Canada lost to France; both generals fell (1712-1759).

MONTE CARLO (4), a great gambling centre in Monaco, 1 m. NE. of the capital; visited by 400,000
persons annually. The Casino is held by a company, and stands on ground leased from the prince.

MONTEFIORE, SIR MOSES, a philanthropic Jewish banker, born in Leghorn; a friend to the emancipation
not only of the oppressed among his own race, but of the slave in all lands; lived to a great
age (1784-1885).

MONTÉGUT, ÉMILE, French critic, born at Limoges; is noted for books of travel, studies in French
and English literature, and for translations of Shakespeare, Macaulay's "History," and Emerson's
"Essays."

MONTENEGRO (236), a Balkan State, less than half the size of Wales, lying in a wild mountainous
region between Herzegovina and Albania, and touching the Adriatic Sea with its SW. corner only.
The climate is severe in winter, mild in summer. The soil is sterile, but is industriously
tilled, and patches of arable land on the mountain sides and in the valleys yield maize, oats,
potatoes, and tobacco. Cattle and sheep are reared in large numbers; vines and mulberries are
cultivated round the lake, whose waters abound in fish. Cattle, hides, and cheese are the exports.
The Montenegrins are a primitive people; the men hunt and fight, the women work. They are mostly
of the Greek Church, and noted for their morality. The government is patriarchal, with a prince
at the head. Education and road-making have recently advanced. The towns are mere villages.
Cetinje (1) is the capital; Antivari and Dulcigno, the Adriatic ports.

MONTESPAN, MARQUISE DE, mistress of Louis XIV.; a woman noted for her wit and beauty; bore
the king eight children; was supplanted by MADAME DE MAINTENON (q. v.); passed her last days
in religious retirement (1641-1707).

MONTESQUIEU, BARON DE, illustrious French publicist, born in the Château La Brède, near Bordeaux;
his greatest work, and an able, "Esprit des Lois," though rated in "Sartor" as at best the
work of "a clever infant spelling letters from a hieroglyphic prophetic book, the lexicon of
which lies in eternity, in heaven"; was author of an able work "On the Causes of the Grandeur
of the Romans and their Declension" (1689-1755).

MONTEVIDEO (215), on the N. shore of the Rio de la Plata, 130 m. E. of Buenos Ayres; is the
capital of Uruguay; a well-built town, with a cathedral, university, school of arts, and museum.
The chief industries are beef-salting and shipping, though there is practically no harbour.
Nearly half the population are foreigners.

MONTEZ, LOLA, an adventuress of Spanish descent, born at Limerick; contracted no end of marriages,
which were broken off one after another; took to the stage; took to lecturing, and ended in
trying to reclaim fallen women (1818-1861).

MONTEZUMA II., the last of the Mexican emperors; submitted to Cortez when he landed; died in
1520 of a wound he received as he pled with his subjects to submit to the conqueror, aggravated
by grief over the failure of his efforts in bringing about a reconciliation.

MONTFORT, SIMON DE, son of a French count; came to England in 1230, where he inherited from
his grandmother the earldom of Leicester; attached to Henry III., and married to the king's
sister, he was sent to govern Gascony in 1248; returned in 1253, and passed over to the side
of the barons, whom he ultimately led in the struggle against the king; after repeated unsuccessful
attempts to make Henry observe the Provisions of Oxford, Simon took arms against him in 1263;
the war was indecisive, and appeal being made to the arbitration of Louis the Good, Simon,
dissatisfied with his award, renewed hostilities, defeated the king at Lewes, and taking him
and his son prisoner, governed England for a year (1264-65); he sketched a constitution for
the country, and summoned the most representative parliament that had yet met, but as he aimed
at the welfare of not the barons only, but the common people as well, the barons began to distrust
him, when Prince Edward, having escaped from captivity, joined them, and overthrew Simon at
Evesham, where he was slain (1206?-1265).

MONTGOLFIER BROTHERS, inventors of the balloon, who made their first ascent in Paris in 1783
in "their paper dome, filled with smoke of burnt wood, amid the shouts of congregated men";
JOSEPH (1740-1810), and ÉTIENNE (1745-1799).

MONTGOMERIE, ALEXANDER, Scottish poet, born, it is alleged, in Ayrshire, from a branch of the
Eglinton family; wrote sonnets and some short poems, but his best-known piece is an allegorical
poem, "The Cherry and the Slae" (1556-1610).

MONTGOMERY, COMTE DE, a French knight of Scottish descent, captain of the Scottish Guard under
Henry II. of France; having in 1559 mortally wounded the king in a tourney, he fled to England,
but returned to fight in the ranks of the Huguenots, and having had to surrender, he was taken
to Paris and beheaded, in violation of the terms of surrender, which assured him of his life
(1530-1574).

MONTGOMERY, JAMES, poet and hymn-writer, born at Irvine, son of a Moravian minister; studied
for the same profession, but was not licensed; after some years of various occupation he started
journalism, and eventually produced a journal of his own, Sheffield Iris, 1794-1825; he was
twice fined and imprisoned for seditious publications, but became a Conservative in 1832, a
pensioner 1835, and died at Sheffield; of his poetry most is forgotten, but "For ever with
the Lord," and some dozen other hymns are still remembered (1771-1854).

MONTGOMERY, ROBERT, author of "The Omnipresence of Deity" and "Satan," born at Bath, son of
a clown; passed undistinguished through Oxford, and was minister of Percy Street Chapel, London;
all his many works are forgotten save the above, which lives in Macaulay's famous review (1807-1855).

MONTGOMERYSHIRE (58), a North Wales inland county, surrounded by Merioneth, Cardigan, Radnor,
Salop, and Denbigh; is chiefly a stretch of mountain pasture land, which rises to 2500 ft.
at Plinlimmon, and in which the Severn rises; but in the E. are well wooded and fertile valleys.
There are lead and zinc mines, and slate and limestone quarries. There is some flannel manufacture
at Newtown. The county town is Montgomery (1).

MONTHOLON, COMTE DE, French general, born in Paris, served under Napoleon, accompanied him
to St. Helena, and left "Memoirs" (1782-1853).

MONTMORENCY, ANNE, DUC DE, marshal and constable of France, born of an old illustrious family;
served in arms under Francis I.; was associated with Condé against the Huguenots, and was mortally
wounded at St. Denis fighting against them (1492-1567).

MONTMORENCY, HENRI, SECOND DUC OF, born at Chantilly; distinguished himself in arms under Louis
XIII., but provoked along with Gaston, Duke of Orleans, into rebellion, he was taken prisoner
and beheaded, notwithstanding intercessions from high quarters on his behalf for the zeal he
had shown in defence of the Catholic faith (1596-1632).

MONTPELIER (4), capital of Vermont, 250 m. N. of New York and 120 m. NW. of Portland, Maine,
is on the Onion River, and has some mills and tanneries.

MONTPELLIER (66), capital of Hérault, France, on the Lez, 6 m. from the Gulf of Lyons, 30 m.
SW. of Nîmes, is a picturesque town, containing a cathedral, a university, picture-gallery,
libraries, and other institutions, and has been a centre of culture and learning since the
16th century; it also manufactures chemicals, corks, and textiles, and does a large trade in
brandy and wine.

MONTREAL (217), the greatest commercial city of Canada, on an island in the St. Lawrence, at
the confluence of the Ottawa River, 150 m. above Quebec, is the centre of railway communication
with the whole Dominion and the States, connected by water with all the shipping ports on the
great lakes, and does an enormous import and export trade; its principal shipment is grain;
it is the chief banking centre, has the greatest universities (M'Gill and a branch of Laval),
hospitals, and religious institutions, and pursues boot and shoe, clothing, and tobacco manufactures;
more than half the population is French and Roman Catholic, and the education of Protestant
and Roman Catholic children is kept distinct; founded in 1642 by the French, Montreal passed
to Britain in 1760; in 1776 it was occupied by the revolting colonies, but recovered next year,
and since then has had a steady career of prosperity and advancement.

MONTROSE (13), an ancient burgh and seaport of Forfarshire, 35 m. S. of Aberdeen, stands on
a tongue of land between the sea and a basin which is almost dry at low water; carries on timber-trade
with Baltic and Canadian ports, and spins flax, makes ropes and canvas.

MONTROSE, JAMES GRAHAM, MARQUIS OF, born at Old Montrose, and educated at St. Andrews; travelled
in Italy, France, and the Netherlands; returning in 1637 he joined the Covenanters, and we
find him at Aberdeen, Stonehaven, and across the English border supporting the Covenant by
force of arms; suspected of treachery to the cause he was imprisoned for a year, 1641-42, in
Edinburgh Castle, whereupon he joined the side of the king; in 1644-45 he did splendid service
for Charles in Scotland, defeating the Covenanters near Aberdeen, at Inverlochy and Kilsyth;
but routed by Leslie at Philiphaugh he lost the royal confidence, and next year withdrew to
Norway; an unsuccessful invasion in the Stuart cause in 1650 ended in his defeat at Invercarron,
capture, and execution; "The Great Marquis," as he is called, was a soldier of genius, and
a man of taste, learning, clemency, and courage (1612-1650).

MONTYON PRIZES, four prizes in the gift of the French Academy, so named from their founder,
Baron de Montyon (1733-1820), and awarded annually for (1) improvements in medicine and surgery;
(2) improvements tending to health in some mechanical process; (3) acts of disinterested goodness;
(4) literary works conducive to morality; the last two are usually divided among several recipients.

MOODY, DWIGHT LYMAN, evangelist, born in Massachusetts; settled in Chicago, where he began
his career as an evangelist, associated with Mr. Sankey; visited great Britain in 1873 and
1883, and produced a wide-spread impression, especially on the first visit; b. 1837.

MOON, the satellite of the earth, from which it is distant 238,800 m., and which revolves round
it in 27-1/3 days, taking the same time to rotate on its own axis, so that it presents always
the same side to us; is a dark body, and shines by reflection of the sun's light, its diameter
2165 m.; it has a rugged surface of mountains and valleys without verdure; has no water, no
atmosphere, and consequently no life.

MOON, MOUNTAINS OF THE, a range of mountains supposed by Ptolemy and early geographers to stretch
across Africa from Abyssinia to Guinea, now variously identified as the Kenia, Kilimanjaro,
Ruwenzori, &c.

MOONSHEE, in India a teacher of languages, especially Hindustani and Persian.

MOORE, FRANK FRANKFORT, novelist and dramatist, born at Limerick, both his novels and his dramas
are numerous; commenced his literary career as a journalist in connection with the Belfast
News Letter as literary and art editor, a post he relinquished in 1893 to settle in London;
b. 1855.

MOORE, JOHN, M.D., author and novelist, born at Stirling, studied medicine in Glasgow, and
practised there, in Holland, Paris, and London; he published books on the countries of Europe
which he visited, an essay on the French Revolution, and among several novels, one of some
note, "Zeluco" (1789); he died at Richmond (1730-1802).

MOORE, SIR JOHN, general, eldest son of above, born at Glasgow; served in Corsica, the West
Indies, Ireland, Holland, Egypt, Sicily, and Sweden; his famous and last expedition was to
Spain in 1808, when with 10,000 men he was sent to co-operate in expelling the French; Spanish
apathy and other causes weakened his hands, and in December he found himself with 25,000 men
at Astorga, a French force of 70,000 advancing against him; retreat was necessary, but disastrous;
he was overtaken by Soult at Coruña in the act of embarking; the victory lay with the English,
but Moore was killed (1761-1808).

MOORE, THOMAS, the Bard of Erin, born in Dublin, the son of a grocer, studied at Trinity College;
went to London with a translation of "Anacreon," which gained him favour and a valuable appointment
in the Bermudas in 1803; fought a duel with Jeffrey in 1806, began his "Irish Melodies" in
1807, and published "The Twopenny Postbag" in 1812; in 1817 appeared "Lalla Rookh," a collection
of Oriental tales, and in 1818 a satiric piece "The Fudge Family," and published a Life of
Byron in 1830; Moore's songs were written to Irish airs, and they contributed much to ensure
Catholic emancipation (1779-1852).

MOORS, a general term for tribes in North Africa descended from Arab and Berber stock; they
were Christians for several centuries, but on their conquest by Arabs in 647 embraced Mohammedanism;
the town Moors do not hold before European settlers, but the nomad tribes show more vitality;
Moorish peoples seized and settled in Spain early in the 8th century, and, introducing a civilisation
further advanced than that in Europe generally with respect to science, art, and industry alike,
maintained a strong rule till the 11th century; then the Spaniards gradually recovered the
peninsula; Toledo was taken in 1085, Saragossa in 1118, Valencia in 1238, Seville in 1248,
Murcia in 1260, and Granada in 1492; Turkish successes in the East came too late to save the
Moors, and the last were banished from the country in 1609.

MORAINES, masses of rock which become detached from the hill-side and find lodgment on a glacier
are so called, and are further described as lateral, medial, terminal, or ground moraines,
according as they lie along its edges, its middle, are piled up in mounds at its end, or falling
down crevasses, are ground against the rock underneath.

MORALITIES, didactic dramas, following in order of time the miracle plays and mysteries, in
which the places of saints and biblical personages in them were taken by characters representing
different virtues and vices, and the story was of an allegorical nature; were the immediate
precursors of the secular drama.

MORAVIA (2,277), a crownland in the N. of Austria, lying between the Moravian and the Carpathian
Mountains, with Silesia on the N., Hungary on the E., Lower Austria on the S., and Bohemia
on the W.; is mountainous, with lofty plains in the S., and is watered by the March, a tributary
of the Danube; the valleys and plains are fertile; grain, beetroot, flax, hemp, and vines are
grown; cattle and poultry rearing and bee-keeping occupy the peasantry; sugar, textiles, and
tobacco are the chief manufactures; there are coal and iron mines, graphite and meerschaum
are found; the capital is Brünn (94), which has woollen and leather industries; associated
with Bohemia in 1029, Moravia passed with that country to Austria in 1526, its association
with Bohemia terminating in 1849; the inhabitants are two-thirds Slavs and one-third German,
and are mostly Roman Catholic.

MORAVIANS, a sect of Protestant Christians who, followers of John Huss, formed themselves into
a separate community in Bohemia in 1467 on the model of the primitive Church, in which the
members regarded each other as brethren, and were hence called the United Brethren; like other
heretics they suffered much persecution at the hands of the orthodox Church; they are known
also as Herrnhuters.

MORAY, JAMES STUART, EARL OF, illegitimate son of James V. of Scotland, and so half-brother
of Mary, Queen of Scots; was from 1556 the leader of the Reformation party, and on Mary's arrival
in her kingdom in 1561 became her chief adviser; on her marriage with Darnley he made an unsuccessful
attempt to raise a Protestant rebellion, and had to escape to England 1565, and after a visit
to Edinburgh, when he connived at Rizzio's murder, to France in 1567; he was almost immediately
recalled by the nobles, who had imprisoned Mary in Lochleven, and appointed regent; next year
he defeated at Langside the forces which, on her escape, had rallied round her, and in the
subsequent management of the kingdom secured both civil and ecclesiastical peace, and earned
the title of "the Good Regent"; he was shot by a partisan of the queen's, James Hamilton of
Bothwellhaugh, when riding through Linlithgow (1531-1570).

MORE, HANNAH, English authoress, born near Bristol; wrote dramas, a novel entitled "Coelebs
in Search of a Wife," and a tract "The Shepherd of Salisbury Plain" (1745-1833).

MORE, HENRY, a Platonist, born at Grantham, a Fellow of Christ College, Cambridge, and author
of a poem "Song of the Soul"; he was a mystic who exercised a great influence among the young
men of Cambridge (1614-1687).

MORE, SIR THOMAS, Chancellor of England, born in London; was the lifelong friend of Erasmus,
and the author of "Utopia," an imaginary commonwealth; succeeded Wolsey as Chancellor, but
resigned the seals of office because he could not sanction the king's action in the matter
of the divorce, and was committed to the Tower for refusing to take the oath of supremacy,
whence after 12 months he was brought to trial and sentenced to be beheaded; he ascended the
scaffold, and laid his head on the block in the spirit of a philosopher; was one of the wisest
and best of men (1478-1535).

MOREA is the modern name of the ancient Peloponnesus, that remarkable peninsula, larger than
Wales, which constitutes the southern half of Greece, and is joined to the mainland by the
Isthmus of Corinth, less than 4 m. broad.

MOREAU, JEAN VICTOR, French general, born at Morlaix; served with distinction under the Republic
and the Empire; was suspected of plotting against the latter with George Cadoudal, and banished
on conviction; went to America, but returning to Europe, joined the ranks of the Russians against
his country, and was mortally wounded by a cannon ball at Dresden (1763-1813).

MORGANATIC MARRIAGE, is a union permitted to German princes who, forbidden to marry except
with one of equal rank, may ally themselves with a woman of inferior status, their children
being legitimate but not eligible for the succession; the marriages of British princes contracted
before the age of 25 without consent of the sovereign, or after that age without consent of
Parliament, are of a morganatic nature.

MORGARTEN, a mountain slope in the canton of Zug, Switzerland, where 1400 Swiss, on Nov. 15,
1315, in assertion of their independence, defeated an Austrian army of 15,000.

MORGHEN, RAPHAEL SANZIO CAVALIERE, engraver, born in Naples, of German parentage; studied in
Rome, and by genius and industry became one of the foremost engravers; his works include engravings
of Raphael's "Transfiguration," the result of 16 years' labour, and Leonardo da Vinci's "Last
Supper," his masterpiece (1758-1833).

MORGUE, a house in which bodies found dead are placed for identification.

MORISONIANISM, the principles of the Evangelical Union, a Scottish denomination founded by
the Rev. James Morison of Kilmarnock on his expulsion from the United Secession Church in 1843,
and united with the Scottish Congregational Union in 1897; differed from the older Presbyterianism
in affirming the freedom of the human will to accept or reject salvation, and the universal
scope of the offer of salvation as made by God to all men; in polity the Morisonians observed
a modified independency.

MORLEY, JOHN, politician and man of letters, born in Blackburn; is an advanced Liberal in both
capacities; besides essays and journalistic work, has written biographies, particularly on
men associated with politics and social movements, such as Voltaire, Rousseau, and Diderot,
as well as Burke, and is editor of "English Men of Letters"; in politics he was a staunch supporter
of Mr. Gladstone, though he could have little sympathy with him as a High Churchman; b. 1838.

MORMON, BOOK OF, a book which in 1827 fell into the hands of Joseph Smith, the son of a farmer,
alleged by him to have been written by a Hebrew prophet who emigrated to America 600 years
before Christ, and to have been recorded by him as a direct revelation to himself from heaven,
by means of which the interrupted communication between heaven and earth was to be restored.

MORMONISM, the creed of the Mormons, or Latter-day Saints as they are called, who have settlements
of their own in the valley of the Salt Lake, generally called Utah, U.S.; they conceive, according
to Hepworth Dixon, of God as a flesh and blood man, of man as of the divine substance, as existing
from, and to exist to, all eternity, and without inherited sin, of the earth as only one of
many inhabited worlds, of the spirit world as consisting of beings awaiting incarnation, of
polygamy as of divine ordination and the relationship eternal, and of their social system as
the kingdom of God on earth.

MORNY, DUC DE, French politician, born in Paris; played a conspicuous part in the coup d'état
of December 1851, and was President of the Corps Législatif; was believed to have been the
son of Queen Hortense, and consequently Louis Napoleon's half-brother (1811-1865).

MOROCCO (4,000), an empire in the NW. corner of Africa, three times the size of Great Britain,
its coast-line stretching from Algeria to Cape Nun, and its inland confines being vaguely determined
by the French hinterlands. Two-thirds of the country is desert; much of the remainder is poor
pasture land; the Atlas Mountains stretch from SW. to NE., but there are some expanses of level
fertile country; on the seaboard the climate is delightful, with abundance of rain in the season;
among the mountains extremes prevail; south of the Atlas it is hot and almost rainless; the
mineral wealth is probably great; gold, silver, copper, and iron are known to be plentiful,
but bad government hinders development; the exports are maize, pulse, oil, wool, fruit, and
cattle; cloth, tea, coffee, and hardware are imported; the chief industries are the making
of leather, "Fez" caps, carpets, and the breeding of horses; government is extremely despotic
and corrupt, and the Sultan's authority over many of the tribes is merely nominal; there is
no education; the religion is Mohammedanism, and slavery prevails; there are no roads, and
the country is imperfectly known; telegraph, telephone, and postal service are in European
hands; the country was taken from the Romans by the Arabs in the 7th century, and has ever
since been in their hands, but Berbers, Spaniards, Moors, Jews, and negroes also go to make
up the population. The chief towns are Fez (25), in the N., a sacred Moslem city, squalid and
dirty, but with good European trade, and a depôt for the caravans from the interior; and Morocco
(60), in the S., near the Tensift River, 240 m. SW. of Fez, well situated for local and transit
trade, but a dilapidated city.

MOROCCO, a fine-grained leather of the skin of a goat or sheep, first prepared in Morocco.

MORPHEUS (i. e. the Moulder), the god of dreams, the son of Night and Sleep.

MORRIS-DANCE, a rustic merrymaking common in England after 1350, and still extant; is of disputed
origin; the chief characters, Maid Marian, Robin Hood, the hobby-horse, and the fool, execute
fantastic movements and Jingle bells fastened to their feet and dress.

MORRIS, SIR LEWIS, a poet, born in Carmarthen, Wales; the author of "Songs of Two Worlds,"
"The Epic of Hades," "A Vision of Saints," &c.; often confounded with the succeeding, with
whom he has next to nothing in common; b. 1833.

MORRIS, WILLIAM, poet, art-worker, and Socialist, born in Walthamstow, near London, son and
heir of a wealthy merchant; studied at Oxford, where he became the lifelong bosom friend of
Burne-Jones; of an artistic temperament, he devoted his working hours to decorative art, in
particular designing wall-papers; produced in 1858 "The Defence of Guenevere and other Poems,"
in 1867 "The Life and Death of Jason," and from 1868 to 1870 his masterpiece, "THE EARTHLY
PARADISE" (q. v.); among other works he translated the "Æneid" and the "Odyssey," and gave
a splendid rendering of some of the Norse legends (1834-1896).

MORRISON, ROBERT, first missionary to China, and Chinese scholar, born of Scottish parentage
at Morpeth; entered the Independent ministry, and was sent to Macao and Canton by the London
Missionary Society in 1807; in 1814 he published a Chinese version of the New Testament, and
in 1819 of the Old Testament; in 1823 his great Chinese Dictionary was published at the expense
of the East India Company; returning to England in 1824, he went out again 10 years later as
interpreter to Lord Napier, and died at Canton (1782-1834).

MORSE, SAMUEL FINLEY BREESE, inventor, born at Charlestown, Massachusetts, graduated at Yale
in 1810 and adopted art as a profession; he gained some distinction as a sculptor, and in 1835
was appointed professor of Design in New York; electrical studies were his hobby; between 1832
and 1837 he worked out the idea of an electric telegraph--simultaneously conceived by Wheatstone
in England--and in 1843 Congress granted funds for an experimental line between Washington
and Baltimore; honour and fortune crowded on him, his invention was adopted all over the world,
and he received an international grant of £16,000; he died in New York (1791-1872).

MORTGAGE, a deed conveying property to a creditor as security for the payment of a debt, the
person to whom it is given being called the Mortgagee.

MORTON, JAMES DOUGLAS, EARL OF, regent of Scotland; joined the Reforming party, was made Chancellor,
took part in the murder of Rizzio, and was privy to the plot against Darnley, joined the confederacy
of the nobles against Mary, fought against her at Langside, and became regent in 1572; became
unpopular, was charged with being accessory to Darnley's murder, and beheaded in 1581.

MOSAYLIMA, a rival of Mohammed, posed as equally a prophet, and entitled to share with Mohammed
the sovereignty of the world; two battles followed, in the second of which Mosaylima was killed,
to the dispersion of his followers.

MOSCHUS, a Greek pastoral poet, author of lyrics which have been translated by Andrew Lang;
lived 150 B.C.

MOSCOW (799), on the Moskwa River, in the centre of European Russia, 370 m. SE. of St. Petersburg;
was before 1713 the capital, and is still a great industrial and commercial centre; its manufactures
include textiles, leather, chemicals, and machinery; it does a great trade in grain, timber,
metals from the Urals, and furs, hides, &c., from Asia; besides the great cathedral there are
many churches, palaces, and museums, a university, library, picture-gallery, and observatory;
the enclosure called the Kremlin or citadel is the most sacred spot in Russia; thrice in the
18th century the city was devastated by fire, and again in 1812 to compel Napoleon to retire.

MOSELLE, river, rising W. of the Vosges Mountains, flows NW. through French and German Lorraine,
then NE. through Rhenish Prussia to join the Rhine at Coblenz, 315 m. long, two-thirds of it
navigable; it passes in its tortuous course Metz, Thionville, and Trèves.

MOSES, the great Hebrew law-giver, under whose leadership the Jews achieved their emancipation
from the bondage of Egypt, and began to assert themselves as an independent people among the
nations of the earth; in requiring of the people the fear of God and the observance of His
commandments, he laid the national life on a sure basis, and he was succeeded by a race of
prophets who from age to age reminded the people that in regard or disregard for what he required
of them depended their prosperity or their ruin as a nation, of which from their extreme obduracy
they had again and again to be admonished.

MOSHEIM, a Protestant Church historian, born at Lübeck, was professor at Göttingen; his principal
work a History of the Church, written in Latin, and translated into English and other languages
(1694-1755).

MOSS-TROOPERS, maurauders who formerly raided the moss-grown borderland of England and Scotland.

MOTHERWELL, WILLIAM, Scottish poet, born in Glasgow, educated in Edinburgh; entered a lawyer's
office in Paisley in 1811 and became Sheriff-Clerk Depute of Renfrewshire 1818; he was editor
of the Paisley Advertiser in 1828, and of the Glasgow Courier in 1830; he wrote biographical
notices of local poets, and edited "Minstrelsy, Ancient and Modern," in 1827; but his own fame
was established by "Poems, Narrative and Lyrical," 1832, the gem of the collection being "Jeanie
Morison"; he died in Glasgow (1797-1835).

MOTLEY, JOHN LOTHROP, historian and diplomatist, born in Massachusetts; commenced his literary
career as a novelist, but soon turned all his thoughts to the study of history; spent years
in the study of Dutch history; wrote the "History of the Dutch Republic," which was published
in 1856, the "History of the United Netherlands," publishing the first part in 1860 and the
second in 1868, and the "Life and Death of John Barnevelde" in 1874; was appointed the United
States minister at Vienna in 1861, and at St. James's in 1869; he ranks high as a historian,
being both faithful and graphic (1814-1877).

MOTOR CAR, a vehicle propelled by petroleum, electricity, &c.

MOUNTAIN, THE, the name given to the Jacobins, or the extreme democratic party, at the French
Revolution, from their occupying the highest benches in the hall of the National Convention,
and included such men as Marat, Danton, Robespierre, and the men of the Reign of Terror.

MOVABLE FEASTS, festivals of the Church, the date of which varies with the date of Easter.

MOZAMBIQUE (1,000), the general name for Portuguese East Africa, lies between Cape Delgado
and Delagoa Bay on the mainland, opposite Madagascar; the Rovuma River separates it from German
territory in the N.; in the S. it touches British Maputaland, while inland it borders on British
Central and South Africa and the Transvaal; the Zambesi divides it into two; the coast is low
and wet, inland are richly wooded plateaux; the soil is fertile, and minerals abound, but the
government is bad, and industry does not develop; 52 miles of railway connect Lorenzo Marques
with the Transvaal; other chief towns are Quilimane (6), and the capital MOZAMBIQUE (7), on
an island.

MOZART, WOLFGANG AMADEUS CHRYSOSTOM, eminent musical composer, born at Salzburg; was distinguished
for his musical genius as a boy, and produced over 600 musical compositions, but his principal
works were his operas, the "Marriage of Figaro," "Don Giovanni," and the "Magic Flute"; his
fate was an unhappy one; he suffered much from poverty and neglect; the last piece he wrote
was a Requiem Mass, which he felt, he said, as if he were writing for himself, and he died
at Prague on the evening of its rehearsal (1756-1791).

MUCKLEBACKIT, SAUNDERS, an old fisherman in Scott's "Antiquary."

MUCKLEWRATH, a fanatic preacher in Scott's "Old Mortality."

MUCOUS MEMBRANE, a delicate membrane which lines the cavities and the canals of the human body.

MUEZZIN, an official, usually blind, attached to a Mohammedan mosque, summons the faithful
to prayers with a chant from a minaret.

MUFTI, a doctor and interpreter of Mohammedan law.

MUFTI, THE GRAND, is head of the Ulema, or interpreters of the Korân; holds his appointment
from the Sultan, and exercises great influence at the Porte; legal advisers to local and general
councils in the Turkish empire are also styled Mufti.

MUGGLETON, founder of the Muggletonians, a tailor who, along with one Reeve, at the time of
the Commonwealth, pretended to be the two witnesses of the Revelation and the last of God's
prophets, invested with power to save and to damn; individuals of the sect founded by him existed
so recently as the beginning of this century.

MUIR, JOHN, a Sanskrit scholar, born in Glasgow; was of the Indian Civil Service; was a man
of liberal views, particularly in religion, and a patron of learning; endowed the Chair of
Sanskrit in Edinburgh University (1810-1882).

MUIR, SIR WILLIAM, an Arabic scholar, brother of the preceding; Principal of Edinburgh University;
was in the Indian Civil Service; wrote a "Life of Mahomet," on the rise of Mohammedanism, and
on the Korân; b. 1819.

MUKDEN (250), in Chinese Shing-king, the capital of Manchuria, on a tributary of the Liao,
in the S. of the province; is a city of considerable commercial importance, and has good coal-mines
in the neighbourhood; there are a great palace, and numerous temples; Irish and Scotch Presbyterian
and Roman Catholic missions have a centre here; the Japanese invasion of 1894-98 was directed
towards it.

MULL (5), large island in the NW. of Argyllshire, third of the Hebrides; is mountainous and
picturesque, with greatly indented coast-line; the highest peak is Ben More, 3185 ft., the
largest inlet Loch-na-Keal; the soil is best adapted for grazing. TOBERMORY (1), in the N.,
is the only town.

MÜLLER, GEORGE, founder of the Orphan Homes near Bristol; born in Prussia; founded the Orphan
Home, in 1836, on voluntary subscriptions, in answer to prayer, to the support one year of
more than 2000 orphans (1805-1898).

MÜLLER, JOHANNES, eminent German physiologist, born at Coblenz; professor at Berlin; ranks
as the founder of modern physiology, and famed as author of a text-book on the science, entitled
"Handbuch der Physiologie des Menschen" (1801-1858).

MÜLLER, JOHANNES VON, celebrated historian, born at Schaffhausen, the "History of Switzerland"
his principal work (1752-1809).

MÜLLER, JULIUS, a German theologian, born at Brieg; professor at Halle; his great work, the
"Christian Doctrine of Sin"; he collaborated on theological subjects with Neander and Nitzsch
(1801-1878).

MÜLLER, KARL OTFRIED, archæologist and philologist, born at Brieg, brother of the preceding;
was professor at Göttingen, and distinguished for his researches in Grecian antiquities and
his endeavour to construe all that concerns the history and life of ancient Greece, including
mythology, literature, and art (1797-1840).

MULOCK, DINAH MARIA (Mrs. Craik), English novelist, born in Stock-upon-Trent, authoress of
"John Halifax, Gentleman," and other novels (1820-1887).

MULREADY, WILLIAM, genre painter, born at Ennis, Ireland, illustrated the "Vicar of Wakefield"
and other works (1786-1863).

MULTAN (75), a Punjab city near the Chenab River, 200 m. SW. of Lahore; has many mosques and
temples; manufactures of silks, carpets, pottery, and enamel ware, and considerable trade.

MÜNCHHAUSEN, BARON VON, a cavalry officer in the service of Hanover famed for the extravagant
stories he used to relate of his adventures and exploits which, with exaggerations, were collected
by one Raspe, and published in 1785 under Münchhausen's name (1720-1797).

MÜNICH (351), capital of Bavaria, on the Isar, 440 m. by rail SW. of Berlin; is a city of magnificent
buildings and rare art treasures; palaces, public buildings, cathedral, churches, &c., are
all on an elaborate scale, and adorned with works of art; there are galleries of sculpture,
and ancient and modern painting, a university, colleges, and libraries; the industries include
stained glass, lithographing, bell-founding, and scientific instrument-making; and there are
enormous breweries. Münich has been the centre of artistic life and culture in the 19th century,
and associated with it are Cornelius, Kaulbach, and many famous names.

MÜNSTER (49), capital of Westphalia, a mediæval-looking town, 100 m. by rail N. of Cologne;
has textile, paper, and printing industries; there is an old cathedral of 12th century, a town-hall,
castle, and 16th-century wine-cellar; the place of the Catholic university has been taken by
an academy with Catholic theological and philosophical faculties; here took place the Anabaptist
movement of 1535; the bishops retained their secular jurisdiction till 1803.

MÜNZER, THOMAS, Anabaptist leader, born at Stolberg, and began to preach at Zwickau 1520; he
came into collision both with the civil authorities and the Reformed Church; for several years
he travelled through Bohemia and South Germany, and in 1525 settled at Mühlhausen; here his
communistic doctrines obtained popularity and kindled an insurrection; the rebels were routed
at Frankenhansen, and Münzer was captured and executed (1489-1525).

MURAT, JOACHIM, king of Naples, born near Cahors, the son of an innkeeper; entered the army,
attracted the notice of Bonaparte, and became his aide-de-camp; distinguished himself in many
engagements, received Bonaparte's sister to wife, and was loaded with honours on the establishment
of the Empire, and for his services under it as a dashing cavalry officer was rewarded with
the crown of Naples in 1808, but to the last allied in arms with his brother-in-law; he had
to fight in the end on his own behalf in defence of his crown, and was defeated, taken prisoner,
and shot (1771-1815).

MURATORI, LUDOVICO ANTONIO, Italian antiquary and historian, horn in Vignola, Modena; became
librarian in Milan 1695, and of the D'Este library, Modena, in 1700, in which city he died;
he edited the Italian chronicles of the 5th-16th centuries, with many essays and dissertations,
and many other historical and antiquarian works; but his name is chiefly associated with the
"Muratorian Fragment," which dates from the 2nd century, and contains a list of the then canonical
scriptures, and which he published 1840 (1672-1750).

MURAVIEFF, COUNT, Russian statesman, born of a distinguished family; entered the diplomatic
service in connection with the Russian embassies at Berlin, Stockholm, The Hague, and Paris,
and became Minister to Denmark in 1893; in 1897 he was appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs
in succession to Lobanoff; b. 1845.

MURCHISON, SIR RODERICK IMPEY, geologist, born in Ross-shire; entered the army and served in
the Peninsular War, but retiring in 1816 gave himself to science; he explored many parts of
Europe, predicted the discovery of gold in Australia, was President of the British Association,
and knighted in 1846, and subsequently received many other scientific appointments and honours;
he founded the Chair of Geology in Edinburgh University in 1870; but his fame rests on his
discovery and establishment of the Silurian system; his book on "The Silurian System" is the
chief of several works (1792-1871).

MURDOCH, WILLIAM, engineer, born at Auchinleck, Ayrshire; was a manager of the Soho Works under
Boulton and Watt, where he distinguished himself by his inventive ingenuity, and where on his
suggestion coal-gas was first employed for lighting purposes (1754-1830).

MURE, COLONEL, Greek scholar, born at Caldwell, Ayrshire; wrote a scholarly work, "A Critical
Account of the Language and Literature of Ancient Greece" (1799-1860).

MÜRGER, HENRI, French novelist and poet, born at Paris; is chiefly distinguished as the author
of "Scènes de la Vie de Bohême," from his own experiences, and instinct with pathos and humour,
sadness his predominant tone; wrote lyrics as well as novels and stories, the chief "La Chanson
de Musette," "a tear," says Gautier, "which has become a pearl of poetry" (1822-1861).

MURILLO, a celebrated Spanish painter, born at Seville; his subjects were drawn partly from
low life and partly from religious or scripture themes, such as the Immaculate Conception and
the Assumption of the Virgin, as well as "Moses Smiting the Rock," the "Miracle of the Loaves
and Fishes," &c.; died from a fall from a scaffold while painting an altar-piece at Cadiz (1618-1682).

MURRAY, JOHN, London publisher, a successful business man; was on intimate terms with the celebrated
men, such as Byron and Scott, whose works he published (1778-1843).

MURRAY, LINDLEY, grammarian, born in Pennsylvania, of Quaker parents; having realised a competency
in business came to England and settled near York, where he produced his "Grammar of the English
Language" in 1795 (1745-1826).

MURRAY, WILLIAM, Scottish actor, lessee of Edinburgh theatre for 42 years; enjoyed the friendship
of the Edinburgh literary celebrities of the time, and was an excellent actor, did Falstaff
to perfection (1791-1852).

MURRAY RIVER, the chief river of Australia, 1120 m. long, rises at the foot of Mount Kosciusko,
in New South Wales, flows NW. between New South Wales and Victoria; receives the Lachlan and
Darling on the right, and entering South Australia turns southward and reaches the sea at Encounter
Bay.

MUSÆUS, JOHN AUGUST, German author, born at Jena, famous as the author of German Volksmärchen,
three of which, "Dumb Love," "Libussa," and "Melechsala," were translated in the volumes of
"German Romance" by Thomas Carlyle; he parodied Richardson's "Sir Charles Grandison" and satirised
Lavater's "Physiognomical Travels" (1735-1787).

MUSCAT (20), capital of Oman, in Eastern Arabia, on the Gulf of Oman; is an ill-built, unhealthy
city, but does an important transit trade between Arabia, Persia, India, and East Africa; it
was in Portuguese possession from 1508 to 1658, but has been independent since.

MUSES, THE, daughters of Zeus and Mnemosynë, presided over the liberal arts particularly, were
nine in number, and dwelt along with Apollo near Parnassus, Pieria, and Helicon; Clio presided
over history, Euterpë over music, Thalia over comedy, Melpomenë over tragedy, Terpsichorë over
choral dance and song, Erato over erotic poetry and elegy, Polyhymnia over lyric poetry, Urania
over astronomy, and Calliopë over eloquence and epic poetry.

MUSPELHEIM. See NIFLHEIM.

MUSSELBURGH (9), an old-fashioned Midlothian fishing town on the coast, 6 m. E. of Edinburgh,
with golf links, paper, nets, and tanning industries, and Loretto school.

MUSSET, ALFRED DE, the premier poet of modern French literature, born in Paris of good parentage;
wayward and impulsive in youth, he would settle to no occupation, till his already awakened
taste for poetry receiving a powerful stimulus through contact with Victor Hugo, led him to
embrace the profession of letters; two volumes of poetry were published before he achieved,
in 1833, his first signal success with the dramas "André del Sarto" and "Les Caprices de Marianne";
in the same year began his famous liaison with GEORGE SAND (q. v.), involving him in the ill-fated
expedition to Venice, whence he returned in the spring of 1834 shattered in health and disillusioned;
from one unhappy love intrigue he passed to another, seeking in vain a solace for his restless
spirit, but reaping an experience which enriched his writings; "Confessions d'un Enfant du
Siècle" appeared in 1836, and is a significant confession of his life at this time; two years
later he was appointed librarian at the Home Office, and in 1847 his charming comedy, "Un Caprice,"
was received with enthusiasm; in 1852 he was elected to the Academy, but his work was done,
and already an ill-controlled indulgence in alcohol had fatally undermined his never robust
strength; his writings, besides possessing the charm of an exquisite style, heightened by an
undertone of true tenderness, are chiefly remarkable for the intense sincerity of feeling,
albeit of a limited range, which animates them, and which finds its highest expression in his
four great lyrical pieces, "Les Nuits"; his fine instinct for dramatic situation and gift of
witty dialogue are manifest in the dramas already mentioned, as also in many others; of his
prose works, "Le Fils du Titien," "Mademoiselle Mimi Pinson," and the "Confessions" are his
best; he was a handsome man, with fascinating manners (1810-1857).

MUTSU HITO, the Mikado of Japan, ascended the throne in 1867, married in 1869; has one son,
Prince Yoshihito, and three daughters; his reign has been marked by great reforms, and especially
the abolition of the feudal system which till then prevailed, to the great and increasing prosperity
of the country, and the opening of it to the ideas and arts of Western civilisation; b. 1852.

MUZAFFER-ED-DIN, Shah of Persia, second son of Nasr-ed-Din, who nominated him to succeed him;
succeeded his father on his death by assassination in 1896, on the 1st of May; b. 1853.

MYCENÆ, capital of Agamemnon's kingdom, in the NE. of the Peloponnesus, was in very ancient
days a great city, but never recovered the invasion of the people of Argos in 468 B.C.; excavations
point to its civilisation being more akin to Phoenician than Greek.

MYRMIDONS, "ant-men," so-called because Zeus was said to have peopled Thessaly, from which
originally they came, by transforming ants into men; they were the people of Ægina, whose warriors
followed Achilles to the siege of Troy.

MYSORE (4,900), a native State, half the size of England, embedded in the Madras Presidency,
occupies a lofty, broken, but fertile tableland; the upper waters of the Kistna and Kaveri
are used for irrigation purposes; betel-nut, coffee, cotton, rice, and silk are exported; cloth,
wheat, and precious metals are imported; the climate is healthy and pleasant; under British
government from 1831, it was restored to its prince in 1881, under British protection; the
capital is MYSORE (74), a prosperous, well-built town.

MYSTAGOGUE, in Greece, was the priest who instructed candidates and prepared them for initiation
into the various religious mysteries; in the Christian Church it denoted the catechist who
prepared catechumens previous to their admission to the sacraments.

MYSTERIES, sacred rites and ceremonies of stated observance among the Greeks and Romans in
connection with the worship of particular divinities, to which only the initiated were admitted,
and in which, by associating together, they quickened and confirmed each other in their faith
and hope, and in which it would seem they made solemn avowal of these; the name is also applied
to the MIRACLE PLAYS (q. v.) of the Middle Ages.

MYSTICISM, a state of mind and feeling induced by direct communion with the unseen, and by
indulging in which the subject of it estranges himself more and more from those who live wholly
in the outside world, so that he cannot communicate with them and they cannot understand him.

N

NABOB. See NAWAB.

NABOTH, a Jew, who was stoned by order of Ahab, king of Israel, because he refused to sell
him his vineyard, an outrage for which Ahab was visited by Divine judgment; is symbol, in the
regard of the Jews, of the punishment sure to overtake all rich oppressors of the poor.

NACHTIGAL, GUSTAV, German traveller and explorer; visited (1869-1874), the first European to
do so, at the instance of Prussia, by way of Tripoli, the heart of Africa, and returned by
way of Cairo, and wrote an account of his journey, "Sahara and Sudan"; in 1884 annexed to Germany
territory in West Africa; died on his return journey, and was buried at Cape Palmas (1834-1885).

NADIR, name given to the part of the heavens directly under our feet, as zenith to that directly
over our head.

NADIR SHAH, king of Persia, born in Khorassan of low origin; began his career as a brigand;
set himself at the head of 3000 brigands to deliver Persia from the yoke of the Afghans, and
expelled them, rising by degrees to the sovereignty of Persia himself; made war on the Afghans,
invaded Hindustan, and took and plundered Delhi, restoring its former dominion to the Persian
monarchy; became subject to suspicion of plots against him, had recourse to violence, and was
assassinated (1688-1747).

NÆVIUS, CNEIUS, one of the earliest Roman poets, born in Campania; wrote dramas, and an epic
poem on the first Punic War, in which he had served; satirised the aristocracy, and was obliged
to leave Rome, where he had spent thirty years of his life; died at Utica (265-204 B.C.).

NAGARI, the name given to the characters In Sanskrit and Hindi alphabets.

NÂGAS, in the Hindu mythology "deified serpents," sons of Kadru, a personification of darkness,
are represented as more or less invested with a human form, and endowed with knowledge, strength,
and beauty; live in the depths of the ocean, and their capital city exposes to the vision a
display of the most dazzling riches. They are not always represented as harmful; though armed
with poison they possess the elixir of strength and immortality, and form the supports of the
universe. They are a reflection of the belief that the deadly powers as well as the regenerative
centre in one and the same deity, in his wisdom killing that he may make alive. Also the name
of a race of aborigines in North-East India.

NAGASAKI (61), one of the six treaty ports of Japan, on the NW. of the island Kiushiu; has
a beautiful and extensive harbour, within which lies the island of Deshima; manufactures "egg-shell"
china, exports coal, tea, &c., and possesses an excellent dockyard; American and English missions
are carried on.

NAGPUR or NAGPORE (117), capital of the Central Provinces of British India, and of a district
and division of the same name; an important railway terminus, 450 m. NE. of Bombay; is noted
for the manufacture of fine cloth, and carries on a brisk trade in wheat, salt, spices, &c.

NAHUM, one of the minor prophets of the Old Testament; appears to have been a contemporary
of Isaiah, and to have prophesied after the destruction of Samaria and the defeat of Sennacherib
before Jerusalem in the reign of Hezekiah. His mission as a prophet was to console the people
in the presence of the formidable power of Assyria, and to predict its downfall, and especially
that of its capital city Nineveh, an event which happened under Cyaxares the Mede 603 B.C.
His thought is forcible, his expression clear, and his diction pure, all three worthy of the
classical age of Hebrew literature.

NAIADS, nymphs of the fresh-water fountains and streams, and as such endowed with prophetic
power, and associated with other deities in the sphere of nature gifted with the same power;
are represented as lovely maidens in a nude or semi-nude state.

NAIRN (4), chief town of its county, prettily situated at the entrance of the Nairn into the
Moray Firth, 16 m. NE. of Inverness; is frequented by summer visitors, and has a harbour and
golf links.

NAIRNE, BARONESS, Scottish poetess, born at Gask, Perthshire, third daughter of Laurence Oliphant
of that Ilk, of Jacobite proclivities; known for her beauty as the Flower of Strathearn; was
married to the sixth Lord Nairne, whom she survived; wrote 78 songs, the most famous among
them being "The Land o' the Leal," "The Laird o' Cockpen," "Bonnie Charlie's noo awa," "Caller
Herrin'," and "The Auld Hoose"; died at Gask (1766-1845).

NAIRNSHIRE (9), a northern county of Scotland, fronts the Moray Firth, wedged in between Elgin
on the N. and Inverness on the W. and S.; the surface rugged and mountainous in the S. and
E., slopes towards the Firth, and is traversed by the rivers Nairn and Findhorn; Loch Loy is
the largest of several small lochs; scarcely one-fifth of the soil is devoted to the raising
of cereals, but more attention is given to stock-raising; Cawdor and Auldearn are places in
it of historic and antiquarian interest.

NAIRS, Hindus of high caste, claiming to rank next the Brahmans, who lived on the Malabar coast
of India; among them polyandry prevailed, and the royal power descended through the female line.

NAMAQUAS, a pastoral people of South Africa; one of the principal branches of the Hottentot
race, and inhabiting Great Namaqualand.

NAMUR (31), capital of a province of the same name in Belgium, is situated at the junction
of the Meuse and the Sambre, 35 m. SE. of Brussels. The town is strongly fortified, but only
a few of its fine old buildings have escaped the ravages of war. The citadel still stands,
the cathedral, and the Jesuit church of St. Loup. Cutlery, firearms, &c., are manufactured.
THE PROVINCE (339) skirts the NE. border of France between Hainault and Luxembourg.

NANA SAHIB, a Hindu traitor, his real name Dundhu Panth, of Brahman descent, adopted son of
the ex-Peshwa of the Mahrattas, whose pension from the British Government was not continued
to Nana on his death, and which rendered the latter the deadly foe to British rule in India,
and the instigator, on the outbreak of the Mutiny in 1857, of the massacre of Cawnpore; he
had on the outbreak of the Mutiny in question offered his services to a British general, and
placed himself at the head of the mutineers; the miscreant escaped, and his fate was never
known; b. 1820. See CAWNPORE.

NANCY (87), capital of the department of Meurthe-et-Moselle, North-East France, is prettily
situated amid woodland scenery on the river Meurthe, 220 m. E. of Paris; the new town is spaciously
laid out, while the old town, narrowed in its streets, has many interesting old buildings,
e. g. the cathedral, the 16th-century palace; there is a university, and an active trade in
embroidered cambric and muslin, besides cotton and woollen goods, &c.

NANKING (150), an ancient city, and up to the 15th century the capital of China, is situated
on the Yangtse River, 130 m. from its mouth; between 1853 and 1864 its finest buildings were
destroyed by the Taiping rebels; its manufactures of nankeen and satin and of its once famous
pottery and artificial flowers have fallen off, but it still continues the chief seat of letters
and learning in China.

NANNA, in the Norse mythology the wife of Balder, the sun-god; distinguished for her conjugal
fidelity, threw herself on the funeral pyre of her husband, and descended to the shades along
with him; when the pair were entreated to return, he sent his ring to Odin and she her thimble
to Frigga.

NANSEN, FRIDTJOF, Arctic explorer, born at Froen, near Christiania, son of a Norwegian advocate;
explored the seas in a scientific interest round Spitzbergen in 1882, and crossed Greenland
in 1888, conceived the idea of reaching the Polar regions by following the Polar ocean currents;
sailed in the Fram, a ship specially constructed for a Polar voyage, in 1893, and on his return
wrote an account of his expedition in "Farthest North" in 1897; b. 1861.

NANTES (116), capital of the department of Loire-Inférieure, North-West France, on the Loire,
35 m. from the sea; its fine streets, handsome buildings, and historical associations make
it one of the most interesting cities in France; the cathedral and the ducal castle date from
the 15th century; shipbuilding, sugar-refining, and hardware are the staple industries, while
an active shipping trade is kept up with the colonies.

NANTES, EDICT OF, edict granted by Henry IV. 1598, allowing to Protestants religious liberty
and political enfranchisement, and confirmed by Louis XIII. in 1614, but revoked, after frequent
infringements, in the shape of dragonnades and otherwise, by Louis XIV., Oct. 23, 1685, at
the instance of Madame Maintenon and Père la Chaise.

NAPHTHA, a liquid hydro-carbon of an inflammable nature that exudes from the earth or is distilled
from coal-tar, &c.

NAPIER, SIR CHARLES, the conqueror of Sinde, born at Westminster, descendant of Napier of Merchiston;
entered the army, was present at Coruña, served in the Peninsular War, was in 1841 made commander-in-chief
of the Bombay army, defeated the Sikhs at Meeanee in 1848 in a brilliant engagement; became
governor of Sinde, returned to England, and was welcomed with enthusiasm; went to India again
on the outbreak of a second Sikh War, to find it suppressed; quarrelled with the Governor-General
and came home; was a brave, upright, and humane man, and a great favourite with the army (1782-1853).

NAPIER, SIR CHARLES, admiral, cousin of preceding, born near Falkirk; entered the navy as a
volunteer in 1799, assisted in two naval engagements, and for a time served as a volunteer
in the Peninsular army; joined the Portuguese navy, defeated the fleet of Dom Miguel, tried
to reform the navy of Portugal but failed, assisted by land and sea in driving Mehemet Ali
out of Syria, and held the command of the Baltic fleet during the Crimean War, but disappointed
expectations and was deprived of command (1786-1860).

NAPIER, JOHN, laird of Merchiston, mathematician, born in Merchiston Castle, near Edinburgh;
famed over the world as the inventor of logarithms; wrote a book on the Apocalypse, which contains
some plain-spoken counsel to King James; believed in astrology, and was addicted to divination
as well as mechanical invention (1550-1617).

NAPIER, SIR WILLIAM, brother of the conqueror of Sinde; entered the army at the age of 15,
served all through the Peninsular War, and wrote, besides the "Conquest of Sinde," the "History
of the Peninsular War," a celebrated work, written from intimate knowledge of the events and
with matchless graphic power (1785-1860).

NAPIER OF MAGDALA, Lord, military engineer officer, born in Ceylon; distinguished himself at
the sieges of Multan, Delhi, and Lucknow; commanded an expedition in Abyssinia, stormed and
took Magdala in 1868, for which he was rewarded with high honours (1810-1890).

NAPLES (536), the largest and richest city of Italy; has a lovely situation within the bend
of Naples Bay, spreading from the foreshore back upon wooded hills and rising terraces, behind
which lie the snow-clad Apennines; to the E. lies the old town with its historic Via di Roma
and narrow crowded thoroughfares; the newer portion on the W. is more spaciously laid out,
and much has been done in recent years over the whole city to improve the sanitation and water
supply; the national museum, rich in Pompeii relics, the university (4150 students), the national
library (275,000 vols.), the archiepiscopal cathedral, and the four mediæval gateways are the
chief architectural features; large quantities of wine, olive-oil, chemicals, perfumery, &c.,
are exported, while woollen, silk, linen, glove, and other factories carry on a good home trade;
Naples became incorporated in the kingdom of Italy in 1861 after the Bourbon dynasty had been
swept away by Garibaldi.

NAPOLEON I., emperor of the French, born at Ajaccio, Corsica, the second son of Charles Bonaparte
and Lætitia Ramolino; trained at the military schools of Brienne and Paris; distinguished first
as a captain of artillery at the siege of Toulon in 1793; elected general of brigade in the
Italian campaign of 1794; he fell under suspicion, but was soon after invested with the supreme
command of the army there and the conduct of the war, which was rendered memorable by the victories
of Montenotte, Lodi, Rivoli, Arcole, &c.; on his return to Paris he was received with an enthusiasm
which excited in him the ambition to render himself indispensable to the country; to utilise
his services in their own interest the Directory determined to strike a blow at England, and
Egypt being the point of attack selected, he sailed in command of an expedition for that destination
in 1797, and conducted it with successes and reverses till, in 1799, the unpopularity and threatened
fall of the Directory called him back; it was the occasion for a coup d'état which he had meditated,
and which he accomplished on the henceforward celebrated 18th Brumaire (9th Nov. 1799), when
a consulship of three was established, himself First Consul, and eventually in 1802 Consul
for life; his administration in this capacity, while disgraced by several despotic acts, was
in the main of a nature for the public benefit, and distinguished by its regard for the interest
of law and good order, but his personal ambition the while was not asleep, for, by a Concordat
with the Pope he so attached the Catholic Church to the state as to secure the clerical support
to his ambitious projects, and was able on the 18th May 1804, to get himself invested with
the imperial dignity, only Carnot in the Tribunate and Grégoire in the Senate protesting against
the step as a violation of liberty; Napoleon owed it to his victories in the field that he
attained this elevation, and the sword must maintain what the sword had won; from this date
accordingly began that long array of wars against the rest of Europe, distinguished by the
victories of Austerlitz, and Jena, and Eylau, and Friedland, and Eckmühl, and Wagram, and which
contributed to inspire all the nations around with a sense of the terror of his name; but with
the unfortunate expedition into Russia, in 1812, Napoleon's glory began to wane and the tide
to turn; after the battles of Lützen and Bautzen, he might perhaps have signed an honourable
peace, but he declined the terms offered, and was defeated at Lützen by the Allies, who invaded
France, and entered Paris in 1814 in spite of all his efforts to keep them at bay, upon which
he was compelled to abdicate at Fontainebleau and retire to Elba, 20th April 1814; it was in
vain for him to return from his retreat and re-enter Paris on the 20th March following, for
the Powers, with England and Prussia at their head, leagued against him and crushed him at
Waterloo; by this defeat he had forfeited the throne, and was compelled to abdicate, but unable
to escape from France, delivered himself up to Captain Maitland of the Bellerophon, and was
shipped off to St. Helena, where, after some six years of misery, he died 5th May 1821, whence
his body was disinterred and buried with great pomp under the dome of the church of St. Louis,
15th December 1840; "he believed," says Carlyle, "too much in the dupeability of men, saw no
fact deeper in man than hunger and thirst; he was mistaken; like a man that should build upon
clouds, his house and he fell down a confused wreck, and departed out of the world"; the one
article of his faith being "the tools to him that can handle them" (1769-1821).

NAPOLEON, LOUIS. See LOUIS NAPOLEON, also BONAPARTE.

NAPOLEON, VICTOR, son of Prince Napoleon; claimed to be head of the house of Bonaparte in 1891,
though his younger brother, Prince Louis, a colonel in the Russian Imperial Guard, is preferred
to him by many Bonapartists; b. 1862.

NAPOLEON D'OR, a French gold coin worth 20 francs, named after the Emperor Napoleon I.

NARAKA, among the Hindus and the Buddhists the place of penal suffering after death.

NARCISSUS, a self-satisfied youth who disdained the addresses of Echo, in consequence of which
she pined away and died, and who, by way of penalty, was doomed to fall in love with his own
image, which he kept beholding in the mirror of a fountain till he too pined away and died,
his corpse being metamorphosed into the flower that bears his name.

NARROWS, THE, name given to the section of the St. Lawrence River which extends between Lake
Superior and Lake Huron.

NARSES, a statesman and general of the old Roman empire, rose from being a slave to be keeper
of the imperial privy-purse; was successful against the Goths, whom he drove out of Rome; d. 573.

NARTHEX, a space in early churches railed off from the rest for catechumens and penitents.

NASEBY, a village in Northampton, where the Royalists under Charles I. and Prince Rupert were
defeated, "shivered utterly to ruin," by the Parliamentary forces under Fairfax and Cromwell
in June 1645, the "Ironsides" bearing the brunt of the battle and winning the honours of the day.

NASH, JOHN, English architect, born in London; besides designing plans for some of the chief
streets in the city and the buildings in them, was the architect of Buckingham Palace and the
Pavilion at Brighton (1752-1835).

NASH, RICHARD, known as "Beau Nash," born at Swansea; installed himself as master of the ceremonies
at Bath, and ruler of the assemblies of fashion in that resort; was a charitable man as well
as gay; died in poverty, but was honoured with a public funeral (1674-1761).

NASH, THOMAS, English satirist, born at Lowestoft, a Cambridge University wit; wrote plays,
as well as pamphlets, bearing on the MARPRELATE CONTROVERSY (q. v.) (1567-1601).

NASHVILLE (81), capital of Tennessee, U.S., on the Cumberland River, 185 m. SW. of Louisville;
a suspension bridge and railway drawbridge joins it with Edgefield suburb; it is an important
railway and educational centre, the seat of the Fisk, Vanderbilt, and Nashville universities,
and is actively engaged in the manufacture of cotton, tobacco, flour, paper, oil, &c.

NASMITH, ALEXANDER, Scottish landscape painter, born in Edinburgh; did portraits also, and
one of Burns in particular, deemed the best likeness we have of the poet (1757-1843).

NASMITH, JAMES, mechanician, son of the preceding, born in Edinburgh; invented the steam-hammer
and a steam pile-driver (1808-1890).

NASSAU, till 1866 a duchy of Germany, now included in the Prussian province of HESSE-NASSAU
(q. v.).

NATAL (544, of which 47 are whites), British colony in SE. Africa, somewhat larger than Denmark,
fronts the Indian Ocean on the E., having a foreshore of 180 m., between Zululand on the N.
and Kaffraria on the S.; the Dragensberg Mountains form its western boundary; enjoys a fine
salubrious climate, and possesses abundance of fertile land, watered by some 140 inches of
rainfall; along the coast the sugar-cane is largely cultivated, as also some tea, coffee, tobacco,
&c., while all kinds of fruits flourish in its sub-tropical climate; the rising ground inland
produces good cereals, and large numbers of sheep and cattle find excellent pasturage on the
plains and mountain slopes on the W.; excellent coal is mined in large quantities, and iron
and copper promise well; wool, sugar, hides, feathers, and ivory are the chief exports, and
are shipped mainly at Durban, the chief port; the colony now enjoys the advantages of good
railways, schools, representative government, and a legal code based on old Dutch law; PIETERMARITZBURG
(q. v.) is the capital; Natal was discovered in 1497 by Vasco da Gama, and after being annexed
to Cape Colony in 1844, was declared, 11 years later, a separate colony.

NATHAN, a Jewish prophet who had the courage to charge King David to his face with a heinous
crime he had committed and convict him of his guilt, to his humiliation in the dust.

NATION OF SHOPKEEPERS, Napoleon Bonaparte's contemptuous name for the English.

NATIONAL ANTHEM, its authorship has been long matter of controversy, and it is uncertain to
this day; it has been ascribed to H. Carey and to Dr. John Bull.

NATIONAL CONVENTION, the revolutionary assembly of France, consisting of 749 members chosen
by universal suffrage, which on 22nd September 1792 supplanted the Legislative Assembly, proclaimed
the Republic, and condemned Louis XVI. to the guillotine; in spite of its perplexities and
internal discords, it was successful in suppressing the Royalists in La Vendée and the south,
and repelling the rest of Europe leagued against it, not only in arms, but in the field of
diplomacy; it laid the foundation of several of the academic institutions of the country, which
have since contributed to its glory as well as welfare, and collected them together in the
world-famous Institute; its work done, "weary of its own existence, and all men sensibly weary
of it," it willingly deceased in an act of self-dissolution in favour of a Directory of Five
on 20th October 1795.

NATIONAL COVENANT. See COVENANT.

NATIONAL GUARD, THE, a militia of citizens organised in the municipality of Paris in 1790,
with Lafayette as commandant, but suppressed in 1827, and again suppressed in 1872, after two
revivals, in consequence of their taking part with the Commune of the latter date.

NATURAL SELECTION, name given by Darwin to the survival of certain plants and animals that
are fitted, and the decease contemporaneously of certain others that are not fitted, to a new
environment.

NATURAL SUPERNATURALISM, Carlyle's name in "Sartor" for the supernatural found latent in the
natural, and manifesting itself in it, or of the miraculous in the common and everyday course
of things; name of a chapter which, says Dr. Stirling, "contains the very first word of a higher
philosophy as yet spoken in Great Britain, the very first English word towards the restoration
and rehabilitation of the dethroned Upper Powers"; recognition at bottom, as the Hegelian philosophy
teaches, and the life of Christ certifies, of the finiting of the infinite in the transitory
forms of space and time.

NATURALISM, a philosophical term used to denote the resolution of the supernatural into the
natural, and its obliteration; the reference of everything to merely natural laws, and the
denial of all supernatural interference with them.

NATURE WORSHIP, the worship of the forces of nature conceived of as personal deities.

NAUSICAA, the daughter of Alcinous, king of the Phæacians, who gave welcome to Ulysses when
shipwrecked on the shore, and whom Homer represents as, along with her maidens, washing the
clothes of the hero and his companions.

NAUVOO, a village in Illinois, on the Mississippi, where the Mormons first settled in 1840,
and from which they were expelled in 1846.

NAVARINO, a bay on the SW. coast of the Morea, the scene of the naval victory of the Athenians
over the Spartans 425 B.C., and of the annihilation of the Turkish and Egyptian navies by the
combined fleets of England, France, and Russia, under Codrington, 20th October 1827.

NAVARRE (304), one of the 49 provinces of Spain, comprising by far the greater portion of the
old kingdom of Navarre, which lasted up to 1512, the other part of which now forms French Basses-Pyrénées;
the Spanish province lies on the SW. border of France, is very varied in surface and climate;
in the N. the people are chiefly Basques, and are much more energetic than the southern Spaniards;
maize, wheat, and red wine are the chief products.

NAWAB, a viceroy of a province in the Mogul empire, applied also to a Mohammedan chief in India,
and, spelt Nabob, to a man who has made his wealth in India.

NAXOS (14), an island of the Cyclades, in the Ægean Sea, famed for its marble, and exports
salt and emery powder.

NAYLER, JAMES, a fanatical Quaker in the time of the Commonwealth, with a following as fanatical
as himself, who escorted him through Bristol on his release from prison after the manner of
Christ's entry into Jerusalem; was very cruelly punished for blasphemy in fancying or seeming
to fancy himself a new incarnation of Christ.

NAZARETH (7), a town in a hollow of the hills on the N. of the Plain of Esdraëlon, 67 m. N.
of Jerusalem and 11 m. W. of the Sea of Galilee, celebrated over Christendom as the home of
the Holy Family.

NAZARITES, among the Jews people consecrated by a vow to some special religious service, generally
for a definite period, but sometimes for life; during its continuance they were bound to abstain
not merely from strong drink, but from all fruit of the vine, to wear their hair uncut, and
forbidden to approach a dead body, long hair being the symbol of their consecration; the vow
was sometimes made by their parents for them before their birth; the said vow is the symbolic
assertion of the right of any and every man to consecrate himself, in disregard of every other
claim, to any service which God may require of him.

NEAGH, LOUGH, the largest lake in the British Isles, lies in the NE. of Ireland, touching the
borders of five counties, is 16 m. long, and has an average breadth of 10 m. and a greatest
depth of 102 ft.

NEAL, DANIEL, Nonconformist divine, born in London, and minister there; wrote a "History of
the Puritans" and a "History of New England" (1678-1743).

NEAL, JOHN MASON, hynmologist, born in London; was a zealous and advanced High Churchman, wrote
a "History of the Holy Eastern Church"; is best known for his hymns, translated and original
(1818-1866).

NEANDER, JOHANN AUGUST WILHELM, eminent Church historian, born at Göttingen, of Jewish parents,
his father's name Mendel, which he changed into Neander (new man) on his baptism at the age
of 17; studied theology under Schleiermacher at Halle, commenced his work as a teacher of theology
in Heidelberg in 1811, but was two years after called to the chair of Church History in Berlin,
a post he occupied with signal distinction till his death, his fame all along attracting to
him students from every quarter of Christendom; he was a devout believer in historical Christianity,
and had the profoundest insight into the Christian faith, both in the root of it and the development
of it in the life of the Church; besides several monographs, he wrote the history of the Church
from its first starting through its after expansion, and a "Life of Christ" in answer to Strauss,
which for its apprehension of the spirit of Christ and His teaching has never been surpassed,
while in Christian character he was, if ever man was, "without spot and blameless" (1789-1850).

NEATH (11), a borough and river port of Glamorganshire, on the navigable Neath, 6 m. NE. of
Swansea; is an old town, and has interesting ruins of an abbey and of a castle (burned 1231);
has prosperous copper, tin, iron, and chemical works.

NEBIIM, the prophets of Israel as an organised class, who first figure as guardians of the
spiritual interests of the nation to the time of Samuel, when it was threatened with extinction
piecemeal at the hands of the Philistines, and whose mission it was to recall the divided tribes
to a sense of their unity as the chosen of Jehovah, and to see that they were welded into one
under a single king; they lived together in communities, appeared in companies, wore a distinctive
dress, and were called the sons of the prophets; while they were performing and discharging
their offices they were true to their calling, but when order was established they, as is usual
in such cases, became more and more lax, until first Elijah, and then another and another who
were for most part not of the order, had, if they would be true to their own souls, to remind
the nation of what its authorised teachers, in their unfaithfulness, were failing to do, and
in consequence suffering God's cause to go to wreck.

NEBRASKA (1,058), one of the west central States of the American Union, has Dakota on its N.
and Kansas and Colorado on the S., is 1½ times the size of England; in the E. stretches of
fertile land yield abundant crops of grain (maize chiefly), hemp, flax, sugar-beet, and tobacco,
while in the W. rich prairie pastures favour a prosperous stock-raising; the Platte, Niobrarah,
and Republican Rivers follow the eastward slope of the land; Omaha and Lincoln (capital) are
the chief centres of the manufacturing industries; climate is dry and bracing; wolves, foxes,
skunks, &c., abound, chiefly in the "Bad Lands" of the N.; Nebraska was incorporated in the
American Union in 1867.

NEBULÆ, name given to masses larger or smaller of misty light in the heavens caused by a group
of stars too remote to be severally visible to the naked eye.

NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS, the theory that the sun and planets with their satellites in the solar
system were originally one mass of nebulous matter which, gradually cooling and contracting,
under violent revolution resolved itself into separate revolving orbs.

NECKER, JACQUES, celebrated financier, born at Geneva, banker in Paris; married the accomplished
Susanne Curchod, the rejected of Gibbon, and became by her the father of Mme. de Staël; was
a man of high repute for probity and business capacity; became in 1777 Director-General of
Finance in France, tried hard and honestly, by borrowing and retrenchment, to restore the fallen
public credit, but was after five years dismissed; was recalled in 1788, but though the funds
rose, and he contributed to their relief two million livres of his own money, was again dismissed,
to be once more recalled, only to expose his inability to cope with the crisis and to be forced
to retire (1732-1804).

NECTAR, in the regard of the Greeks the drink of the gods, which, along with ambrosia, their
food, nourished the ichor, their blood, and kept them ever in the bloom of immortal youth;
it was not permitted to mortals to drink of it.

NEEDLE-GUN, a breech-loading gun, the cartridge of which is exploded by a needle.

NEGATIVE, in photography a picture of an object in which the lights and shadows are reversed,
so that the shady part appears white and the light in it appears dark.

NEGATIVITY, the name given in philosophy to the negative element determinative or definitive
of things and all ideas of things, whereby a thing is this because it is not that, and is seen
to be this because it is seen not to be that, an antagonism essential to all forms of being,
spiritual as well as material, and to all definite and distinct thought.

NEGRITOES, Spanish name for certain distinctive tribes of a diminutive race resembling negroes,
occupying the central portions of some of the Philippine Islands, also known as Aëtas or Itas;
sometimes loosely used to designate Papuans and all the Melanesian peoples of Polynesia.

NEGROES, the dark race of tropical Africa, distinguished by their dark woolly hair, their black
eyes, their flat noses, and their thick lips; they occupy rather a low level in the scale of
humanity, and are lacking in those mental and moral qualities which have impressed the stamp
of greatness on the other races that have distinguished themselves in the history of the world.

NEHEMIAH, a Jew of the captivity, of royal degree and in high favour, being king's cup-bearer
at the court of Artaxerxes, the Persian king; received a commission from the king to repair
to Jerusalem and restore the Jewish worship, and ruled over it for 12 years, till he saw the
walls of the city amid much opposition restored; returned afterwards to superintend the reform
of the worship, of which the book of the Old Testament named after him relates the story.

NEHUSHTAN (a piece of brass), the name given in contempt to what was alleged to be the "Serpent
in the Wilderness," which had become an object of worship among the Jews, and was destroyed
by King Hezekiah among other idolatrous relics (2 Kings xviii. 4).

NEILGHERRY HILLS, a bracing mountain district in South India, forming a triangular-shaped and
somewhat isolated mass of elevated country, peaks of which attain an altitude of close upon
9000 ft.; grassy slopes alternate with thick masses of forest, amid which several small native
wild tribes still dwell; Ootacamund is the chief station of the many Europeans who frequent
the district as a health resort.

NELSON, 1, a Prosperous manufacturing borough of Lancashire (23), 3½ m. NE. of Burnley. 2,
Capital of a district in the N. end of South Island, New Zealand (11); has a busy harbour in
Blind Bay, and manufactures cloth, leather, soap, &c.

