"They pretty near raised us with the pigs. I remember they would cook a great big oven of bread
and then pour a pan full of buttermilk or clabber and we'd break off a piece of bread and get
around the pan of milk jest like pigs. Yes mam, they did that.

"Let's see now, what else occurred. Old marster would have my father and Uncle Jacob and us
boys to run foot races. You know--they was testin' us, and I know I was valued to be worth
five hundred dollars.

"But my folks was good to me. They wouldn't have no overseer what would be cruel. If he was
cruel he would have to be gone from there.

"One time old marster say 'Charlie how come this yard so dirty?' You know there would be a
little track around. I said, will you give me that old gray horse after I clean it and he said
'Yes'. So I call up the boys and we'd clean it up, and then the old gray horse was mine. It
was just the old worn out stock you understand.

"I want to tell you when the old folks got sick they would bleed them, and when the young folks
got sick they give you some blue mass and turn you loose.

"I remember when old marster's son Sam went to war and got shot in the leg. Old marster was
cryin' 'Oh, my Sam is shot'. He got in a scrummage you know. He got well but he never could
straighten out his leg.

"When freedom come, I heard 'em prayin' for the men to come back home. Miss Mary called us
all up and told us our age and said, 'You all are free and can go where you want to go, or
you can stay here.'

"Oh yes, the Ku Klux use to run my daddy if they caught him out without a pass, but I remember
he could outrun them--he was stout as a mule.

"I been here so long and what little I've picked up is just a little fireside learnin'. I can
read and write my name. I can remember when we thought a newspaper opened out was a bed-cover.
But a long time after the war when the public school come about, I had the privilege of going
to school three weeks. Yes mam, I was swift and I think I went nearly through the first reader.

"I am a great lover of the Bible and I'm a member of Mount Calvary Baptist Church.

"I'm glad to give you some kind of idea 'bout my age and life. I really am glad. Goodbye."

  Interviewer: Mrs. Bernice Bowden
  Person interviewed: Ben Hite
                      1515 Ohio Street, Pine Bluff, Arkansas
  Age: 74

"Well, I didn't zactly live in slavery times. I was born in 1864, the 4th of July. They said
it was on the William Moore place four miles from Chattanooga but I was in Georgia when I commenced
to remember--in Fort Valley--just a little town.

"I been in Arkansas sixty-five years the first day of January. Come to the old Post of Arkansas
in 1873. I been right here on this spot forty-three years. Made a many a bale of cotton on
the Barrow place.

"Went to school three weeks right down here in 'Linkum' County. I could read a little but couldn't
write any much.

"I been married to this wife forty years. My fust wife dead.

"I lived in 'Linkum' County eight years and been in Jefferson County ever since.

"Three years ago I was struck by a car and I been blind two years. I can just 'zern' the light.
When I was able to be about I used to vision what it would be like to be blind and now I know.

"Yes'm, I just come here on the eve of the breakin' up. I seed the Yankees in Georgia after
freedom. They called em Bluejackets.

"All my life I have farmed--farmed."

  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person Interviewed: Betty Hodge
                      Hazen, Ark.
  Age: 63

"Uncle Billy Hill used to visit us. He was Noah's uncle. He was a slave and one thing I remembers
hearing him tell was this: He was the hostler for his old master. The colored folks was having
a jubilee. He wanted to go. He stole one of the carriage horses out--rode it. It started snowing.
He said he went out to see bout the horse and it seemed be doin' all right. After a while here
come somebody and told him that horse he rode was dead. He didn't believe it, but went out
there and it was sho dead. He said he took that horse by the tail and started runnin' up the
road. They drug that horse home and put him in the stable where he belong at. It was snowing
so hard and fast they couldn't see their hands 'fo em he said. It snowed so much it covered
up where they drug the horse and their tracks. He said the snow saved his life. They found
the horse dead and never thought bout him having him out at the jubilee. He said none of em
ever told a word bout it but for long time he was scared to death fear the old master find
out bout it.

"Grandma Frances was born in West Virginia. She was papa's mama. She purt nigh raised us. Mama
and papa went to the field to work. She cooked and done the housework. She had a good deal
of Indian blood in her. I heard em say. She had high cheeks and the softest, prettiest hair.
She told about the stars falling. She said they never hit the ground, that they was like shooting
stars 'cepting they all come down like. Everybody was scared to death. She talked a good deal
about Haywood County--I believe that was in Tennessee--that was where they lived durin' of
the war. Papa made her a livin' long as she lived. When she got old noises bothered her, so
then we growed up and she lived by herself in front of our house in a house.

"Grandma Frances and our family come to Arkansas 'reckly after the Civil War. They come with
Mr. John and Miss Olivia Cooper. Miss Olivia was his wife, but Miss Presh was a old maid. Folks
used to think it was sort of bad if a woman didn't marry. Thought she have no chances. It sort
of be something like a disgrace if a woman was a old maid. Don't seem that-a-way no more. I
never heard much about Miss Presh but I heard mama tell this: Grandma Mary Lea come on a visit
to see mama and she brought her some sweet potatoes in a bag. Had nothing else and wanted to
bring her something. Miss Olivia picked out the biggest ones and took em. Said she was mean.
Said she had a plenty of everything. Just left mama the smallest ones. She said Miss Olivia
was stingy. Mama was the house girl and nurse and they had a cook. Mama was a girl then she
belong to the Coopers, but mama belong to somebody else. She hadn't married then.

"One day Miss Olivia called her and she didn't get there soon as Miss Olivia wanted her to.
Miss Olivia say, 'You getting mean, Lucy. You like your ma.' She said, 'I just like you if
I'm mean.' But Miss Olivia didn't understand it. She ask the cook and the cook told her she
was talking to her. She told Mr. John Cooper to whoop em but he didn't. He kind of laughed
and ask the cook what Lucy said to Miss Olivia. Miss Olivia told him if he didn't whoop em
both she was going back home. He told her he would take her and she wouldn't come back neither
when she left. He didn't whoop neither one of em and she never left him till she died, cause
I been over to Des Arc and seen all of em since I come in this world.

"Mama was Lucy Lea till she married Will Holloway, my papa. Then she married Isarel Thomas
the preacher here at Hazen. He come from Tennessee with old Dr. Hazen (white man). Mama's mama
was Mary Lea; she lived out here at Green Grove. I don't know where she was born, but she was
owned by the Lea's round Des Arc. She come and stay a month or two with us on a visit.

"Old folks was great hands to talk bout olden times. I forgot bout all they told.

"In old times folks had more principal, now they steal and fight and loud as they can be. Folks
used to be quiet, now they be as loud as they can all the time. They dance and carouse all
night long--fuss and fight! Some of our young folks got to change. The times have changed so
much and still changing so fast I don't know what goin' to be the end. I study bout it a lot."

  #647
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Minnie Hollomon
                      R.F.D., Biscoe, Arkansas
  Age: 75

"My parents was Elsie and Manuel Jones. They had five children. The Jones was farmers at Hickory
Plains. Auntie was a cook and her girl, Luiza, was a weaver and a spinner and worked about
in the house.

"I heard auntie talk about the soldiers come and make them cook up everything they had and
et it up faster 'en it took 'er to fix it ready for 'em to guttle down. Dems her very words.
They took the last barrel er flour and the last scrap er meat they had outen the smokehouse.

"Uncle Sebe Jones was Massa Jones' boss and wagoner (wagon man and overseer). Auntie said Uncle
Sebe drunk too much. He drunk long as he lived 'cause old Massa Jones trained to that.

"Uncle Whit Jones was more pious and his young massa learned him to read and write. He was
onliest one of the Jones niggers knowed how er had any learning er tall.

"The women folks spun and wove all winter while the nights be long.

"Pa said Massa Jones was pretty fair to his black folks. He fed 'em pretty good and seen they
was kept warm in rainy bad weather. He watch see if the men split plenty wood to keep up the
fires. Jones didn't allow the neighbors to slash up his black folks. He whooped them if he
thought they needed it and he knowed when and where to stop. Mama didn't b'long to the same people.

"Grandma was a native of South Ca'lina. Her name was Malindy Fortner. She died over at Alex
Hazen's place. She come to some of her people's after the War. I think ma come with her. Her
own old mistress come sit on a cushion one day. The parrot say, 'Cake under cushion, burn her
bottom.' Grandma made the parrot fly on off but the cake was warm and it was mashed flat under
the cushion when she got up. She took it to her little children. She said piece of cake was
a rarity. They had plenty corn bread, peas and meat.

"Grandma said after they had a baby it would be seben weeks b'fore they would let them put
their hands in a washtub. They all had tasks in winter time. They sit by the fire and talk
and sing. Ma said in slavery a girl had a baby and her hugging around a tree. Said her mistress
come to the cabin to see about her and brought corn bread and pea pot-liquor. Said that would
kill folks but it didn't hurt her.

"Pa b'long to the Jones and Whitlocks both but he never told us about ever being sold. He told
us about it took nearly two weeks one time in the bad weather to meet the boat and get provisions.
His wagon was loaded and when the rain and freeze set in it caught him. He like never got back.
His white folks was proud when he got back."

FOLKLORE SUBJECTS

  Name of Interviewer--S. S. Taylor
  Person interviewed--H. B. Holloway (Dad or Pappy)
  Story:

Birth, Parentage

"I never lived in the country. I lived in town. But sometimes my father would go into the country
to hunt and I would go with him.

"I was born in Austin County, Fort Valley, Georgia, 105 miles below Atlanta one way, and by
Macon it would be 140. I was thirteen years old when the war began and seventeen when it ended.
I was born the fifteenth day of February, 1848.

"My mother was a nurse and midwife. My father was a finished mechanic. I never had to do any
work until after the Civil War, but I was just crazy about railroading and went to railroading
early. I railroaded all my life. I did some draying too and a lot of concreting too.

"I was born free. There weren't so many free Niggers in Georgia. None that I knew owned any
slaves. I never heered of any owning any slaves. My mother was a full blooded Cherokee woman,
and my father was a dark Spaniard." [("Dad" or "Pappy" Holloway is a fine looking old white
man and shows evidence of White and Indian blood; however, Negro blood shows.) [HW: omit]]

"I am the only one out of twelve children that can't talk my mother's language and don't know
my father's. I remember the Indian war whoop, and the war dance--used to do that myself. When
they run the Indians out of Georgia into Florida, my mother never did go. She was one hundred
seven years old when she died."

Marriage, Breeding, Weddings, Separations

"You know, there weren't no marriages like now with Niggers--just like if you and your wife
owned a man and I owned a woman, if your man wanted to marry, he got consent from you and my
woman would get consent from me. And then they would marry, and I either got to buy your slave
or you got to buy mine. Sometimes the white folks wouldn't want you to marry.

"They didn't force nobody to marry. They might force you to marry if both of you had the same
master, but not if they belonged to different masters. They were crazy about slaves that had
a lot of children.

"Niggers didn't separate in slave times because they never was married except by word of mouth.
There was a lot of old souls that came out of slavery times that lived together and raised
children that never was married (except by word of mouth), just got together. But they made
out better and were better husbands and wives and raised better families than they do now.

"Sometimes folks would get separated when the slave traders would sell them, and sometimes
families would get separated when their white folks died or would run into debt."

Slave Sales

"They had a slave block in Georgia. You see they would go to Virginia and get the people that
they would bring across the water--regular Africans. Sometimes they would refugee them four
or five hundred miles before they would get the chance to sell them. Sometimes a woman would
have a child in her arms. A man would buy the mother and wouldn't want the child. And then
sometimes a woman would holler out: 'Don't sell that pickaninny.' (You know they didn't call
colored children nothin' but Pickaninnies then.) 'I want that little pickaninny.' And the mother
would go one way and the child would go the other. The mother would be screaming and hollering,
and of course, the child wouldn't be saying nothin' because it didn't know what was goin' on.

"They had a sale block in my home (Fort Valley, Georgia), and I used to go and see the Niggers
sold often. Some few wasn't worth nothin' at all--just about a hundred dollars. But they generally
ran about five or six hundred dollars. Some of them would bring thousands of dollars. It depended
on their looks. The trader would say, 'Look at those shoulders; look at those muscles.'

"Someone would holler out, 'A thousand dollars.'

"Then another would holler out, 'Fifteen hundred.'

"They went like horses. A fine built woman would bring a lot of money. A woman that birthed
children cost a heap.

"Virginia was where the slaves would be brought first. The slave traders would go there and
get them and take them across the country in droves--just like you take a drove of cattle.
They would sell them as they would come to sale blocks. The slaves would be undressed from
the shoulders to the waist."

Houses, Food, Clothes

"The slaves lived in log huts on the plantations. Some men would weatherboard them. They didn't
put any ceiling in. You could lay back in your bed and see the moon and stars shining through.

"Some got good food and some of the owners would make the Niggers steal their food from other
folks. Old Myers Green would make his Niggers steal and he would say, 'If you get caught, I'll
kill you.' One or two of them let themselves get caught, and he would whip them. That was to
save him from paying for it. They couldn't do anything to you but whip you nohow. But they
could make him pay for it.

"They used homemade clothes made out of homemade cotton cloth. They would spin the cotton to
a thread. When they would get so many broaches of it, they would make it into cloth. A broach
was just a lot of thread wound around a stick. They would take it to the wheel and make the
cloth, them women used to have tasks:--spinning, weaving, dressmaking, and so on. Sometimes
they would have five and six spinning wheels running before they would get to the weaving.

"I don't know who made the clothes. But you know them Niggers made them. They used to learn
some slaves how to do some things,--the right way. Jus' like they learned themselves. There
was plenty of nice seamstresses. The white folks used to make them make clothes for their children.
The white folks wouldn't do nothin'. They wouldn't even turn down the bed to get in it."

Ages

"Colored folks in slavery times didn't know how old they was. When you would buy a drove of
darkies, you would go by what they would tell you, but they didn't know how old they was. Some
of those Niggers they bought from Africa wouldn't take nothin' neither.

"They would say: 'Me goin' do what you say do, but me aint goin' to get no whipping.' And when
they whipped them, there was trouble.

"The masters kept records of ages of those born in their care. Some of them did. Some of them
didn't keep nothin'. Jus' like people nowadays. Raised them like pigs and hogs. Jus' didn't care."

Amusements

"There used to be plenty of colored folk fiddlers. Dancing, candy pulling, quilting,--that
was about the only fun they would have. Corn shucking, too. They used to enjoy that. They would
get on top of that pile and start singing--the white folks used to like that--sometimes they
would shuck corn all night long. And they would sing and eat too.

"They had what they called the old-fashioned cotillion dance--partners--head, foot, and two
sides--four men and four women--each man danced with his partner. Music by the fiddlers. I
used to dance that.

"At the quilting, they'd get down and quilt. The boys and young men would be there too and
they would thread the needles and laugh and talk with the girls, and the women would gossip.

"The masters would go there too and look at them and see what they'd do and how they'd do and
make them do. They would do that at the candy pullin' too, and anything else.

"The candy pulling--there they'd cook the candy and a man and a girl would pull candy together.
Look to me like they enjoyed the corn shucking as much as they did anything else."

Christmas

"They'd give time to celebrate Christmas time. They'd dance and so on like that. But they worked
them from New Year's day to Christmas Eve night the next year. The good white people would
give them a pig and have them make merry. They'd make merry over it like we do now. That's
where it all come from."

Run-Away Slaves

"I seen a many a runaway slave. I've seen the hounds catch them too. You could hear the hounds
all hours of the night. Some Nigger was gone. Some of them would run away from the field. And
some of them would slip out at night.

"I used to mock them hounds. The first hound would say 'Oo-oo-oo, He-e-e-e-re he-e-e-e-e G-o-o-o-oes.'
The others would say, 'Put 'im up. The lead-hound howled, and the catch dog wouldn't say nothin'
but you could hear the sound of his feet. The lead hound didn't catch the Nigger, but he would
just follow him. When he caught up with him, he would step aside and let the catch dog get
him if he wasn't treed."

Pateroles

"The pateroles were for Niggers just like police and sheriffs were for white folks. They were
just poor white folks. When a Nigger was out from the plantation at night, he had to have a
pass. If the pateroles seen him, they would stop him and ask for his pass. If'n he didn't have
it, he'd mos' likely get a beating. I was free and didn't have no pass. Sometimes they would
stop me, but I never had no trouble with 'em. I was a boy then, and everybody knowed me."

Good Masters

