My   dear  boy,  speechifying  has  extinguished  conversation.   Public meetings,  God  knows,
are rife enough, and why will the  numskulls  not confine  their  infernal dullness to them?
why  not  be  satisfied  with splitting the ears of the groundlings there? why will they not
consider that convivial conversation should be lively as the sparkle of musketry, brilliant,
sharp, and sprightly, and not like the thundering  of  heavy cannon,  or  heavier bombs.--But
no--you shall ask one of  the  Drawleys across the table to take wine.  'Ah,' says he--and
how he makes out  the concatenation, God only knows--'this puts me in mind, Mr Thingumbob,
of what  happened when I was chairman of the county club, on  such  a  day. Alarming times
these were, and deucedly nervous I was when I got  up  to return  thanks.  My friends, said
I, this unexpected and most unlooked-- for  honour--this'--Here blowing all your breeding to
the  winds,  you fire a question across his bows into the fat pleasant fellow, who speaks for
society  beyond him, and expect to find that the  dull  sailor  has hauled  his  wind, or dropped
astern--(do you twig how nautical  I  have become  in  my  lingo under Tailtackle's tuition,
Tom?)--but,  alas!  no sooner  has  the  sparkle  of our fat friend's  wit  lit  up  the  whole
worshipful  society,  than at the first lull, down comes  Drawley  again upon you, like a heavy--sterned
Dutch dogger, right before the wind--'As I  was saying--this unexpected and most unlooked--for
honour'--and there you  are pinned to the stake, and compelled to stand the fire of all his
blunt  bird--boltst for half an hour on end.  At length his mud has  all dribbled  from him,
and you hug yourself--'Ah,--come, here is a  talking man  opening his fire, so we shall have
some conversation at last.'  But alas and alack a day!  Prosey the second chimes in, and works
away,  and hems  and  haws,  and  hawks up some old scraps of schoolboy  Latin  and Greek,
which  are  all Hebrew to you, honest man, until  at  length  he finishes  off by some solemn
twaddle about fossil turnips and  vitrified brickbats;  and thus concludes Fozy No. 2. Oh,
shade of Edie  Ochiltree! that we should stand in the taunt of such umnerciful spendthrifts
of our time  on earth!  Besides, the devil of it is, that whatever may be  said of the flippant
palaverers, the heavy bores are generally most excellent and  amiable men, so that one can't
abuse the sumphs with any thing like a quiet conscience."

"Come," said I, "my dear sir, you are growing satirical."

"Quarter less three," sung out the leadsman in the chains.

We were now running in past the end of Hog Island to the port of Nassau, where the lights were
sparkling brightly.  We anchored, but it was too late to go on shore that evening, so, after
a parting glass of swizzle, we all turned in for the night.

To be near the wharf, for the convenience of refitting, I had run the schooner close in, being
aware of the complete security of the harbour, so that in the night I could feel the little
vessel gently take the ground.  This awoke me and several of the crew, for accustomed as sailors
are to the smooth bounding motion of a buoyant vessel, rising and falling on the heaving bosom
of the ocean, the least touch on the solid ground, or against any hard floating substance,
thrills to their hearts with electrical quickness.  Through the thin bulkhead I could hear
the officers speaking to each other.

"We are touching the ground," said one.

"And if we be, there is no sea here--all smooth--land--locked entirely," quoth another.

So all hands of us, except the watch on deck, snoozed away once more into the land of deep
forgetfulness.  We had all for some days previously been over--worked, and over--fatigued;
indeed, ever since the action had caused the duty of the little vessel to devolve on one half
of her original crew, those who had escaped had been subjected to great privations, and were
nearly worn out.

It might have been four bells in the middle watch, when I was awakened by the discontinuance
of Mr Swop's heavy step over head; but judging that the poor fellow might have toppled over
into a slight temporary snooze, I thought little of it, persuaded as I was that the vessel
was lying in the most perfect safety.  In this belief I was falling over once more, when I
heard a short startled grunt from one of the men in the steerage,--then a sudden sharp exclamation
from another--a louder ejaculation of surprise from a third--and presently Mr Wagtail, who
was sleeping on a matrass spread on the locker below me, gave a spluttering cough.  A heavy
splash followed, and, simultaneously, several of the men forward shouted out "Ship MI of water--water
up to our hammocks;" while Waggy, who had rolled off his narrow couch, sang out at the top
of his pipe, "I am drowned, Bang.  Tom Cringle, my dear--Gelid, I am drowned-- we are all drowned--the
ship is at the bottom of the sea, and we shall have eels enough here, if we had none at Biggleswade.
Oh! murder! murder!"

"Sound the well," I could hear Tailtackle, who had run on deck, sing out.

"No use in that," I called out, as I splashed out of my warm cot, up to my knees in water.

"Bring a light, Mr Tailtackle; a bottom plank must have started, or a but, or a hidden--end.
The schooner is full of water beyond doubt, and as the tide is still making, stand by to hoist
out the boats, and get the wounded into them.  But don't be alarmed, men; the schooner is on
the ground, and it is near high--water.  So be cool and quiet.  Don't bother now--don't"

By the time I had finished my extempore speech I was on deck, where I soon found that, in very
truth, there was no use in sounding the well, or manning the pumps either, as some wounded
plank had been crushed out bodily by the pressure of the vessel when she took the ground; and
there she lay--the tidy little Wave--regularly bilged, with the tide flowing into her.

Every one of the crew was now on the alert.  Bedding and bags and some provisions were placed
in the boats of the schooner; and several craft from the shore, hearing the alarm, were now
alongside; so danger there was none, except that of catching cold, and I therefore bethought
me of looking in on my guests in the cabin.  I descended and waded into our late dormitory
with a candle in my hand and the water nearly up to my waist. I there found my steward, also
with a light, splashing about in the water, catching a stray hat here, and fishing up a spare
coat there, and anchoring a chair, with a piece of spunyarn, to the pillar of the small side--berth
on the starboard side, while our friend Massa Aaron was coolly lying in his cot on the larboard,
the bottom of which was by this time within an inch of the surface of the water, and bestirring
himself in an attempt to get his trowsers on, which by some lucky chance he had stowed away
under his pillow overnight, and there he was sticking up first one peg and then another, until
by sidling and shifting in his narrow lair, he contrived to rig himself in his nether garments.
"But, steward, my good man," he was saying when I entered, "where is my coat, eh?" The man
groped for a moment down in the water, which his nose dipped into, with his shirt--sleeves
tucked up to his arm--pits, and then held up some dark object, that, to me at least, looked
like a piece of black cloth hooked out of a dyer's vat.  Alas! this was Massa Aaron's coat;
and while the hats were bobbing at each other in the other corner like seventy--fours, with
a squadron of shoes in their wakes, and Wagtail was sitting in the side--berth with his wet
night--gown drawn about him, his muscular development in high relief through the clinging drapery,
and bemoaning his fate in the most pathetic manner--that can be conceived, our ally Aaron exclaimed,
"I say, Tom, how do you like the cut of my Sunday coat, eh?" while our friend Paul Gelid, who
it seems had slept through the whole row, was at length startled out of his sleep, and sticking
one of his long shanks over the side of his cot in act to descend, immersed it in the cold
salt brine.

"Lord!  Wagtail," he exclaimed, "my dear fellow, the cabin is full of water--we are sinking--ah!
Deucedly annoying to be drowned in this hole, amidst dirty water, like a tubful of ill--washed
potatoes--ah."

"Tom--Tom Cringle," shouted Mr Bang at this juncture, while he looked over the edge of his
cot on the stramash below, "saw ever any man the like of that?  Why, see there--there, just
under your candle, Tom--a bird's nest floating about with a mavis in it, as I am a gentleman."

"D--n your bird's nest and mavis too, whatever that may be," roared little Mr Pepperpot.

"By Jupiter, it is my wig, with a live rat in it."

"Confound your wig!--ah," quoth Paul, as the steward fished up what I took at first for a pair
of brimfull water--stoups.  "Zounds! look at my boots."

"And confound both the wig and boots, say I," sung out Mr Bang.  "Look at my Sunday coat. 
Why, who set the ship onfire, Tom?"

Here his eye caught mine, and a few words sufficed to explain how we were situated, and then
the only bother was how to get ashore, and where we were to sojourn, so as to have our clothes
dried, as nothing could now be done until daylight.  I therefore got our friends safely into
a Nassau boat alongside, with their wet trunks and portmanteaus in charge of their black servants,
and left them to fish their way to their lodging--house as they best could.  By this, the wounded
and the sound part of the crew had been placed on board of two merchant brigs, that lay close
to us; and the masters of them proving accommodating men, I got them alongside, as the tide
flowed, one on the starboard, the other on the larboard side, right over the Wave; and next
forenoon, when they took the ground, we rigged two spare topmasts from one vessel to another,
and making the main and fore rigging of the schooner fast to them, as the tide once more made,
we weighed her, and floated her alongside of the sheer--hulk, against which we were enabled
to heave her out, so as to get at the leak, and then by rigging bilge--pumps, we contrived
to free her and keep her dry.  The damaged plank was soon removed; and, being in a fair way
to surmount all my difficulties, about half--past five in the evening I equipped myself in
dry clothes, and proceeded on shore to call on our friends at their new domicile.  When I entered.
I was shown into the dining hall by my ally, Pegtop.

"Massa will be here presently, sir."

"Oh--tell him he need not hurry himself:--But how are Mr Bang and his friends?"

"Oh, dem all wery so so, only Massa Wagtail hab take soch a terrible cold, dat him tink he
is going to dead; him wery sorry for himshef, for true massa."

"But where are the gentlemen, Pegtop?"

"All, every one on dem, is in him bed.  Wet clothes have been drying all day."

"And when do they mean to dine?"

Here Pegtop doubled himself up, and laughed like to split himself.

"Dem is all dining in bed, Massa.  Shall I show you to dem?"

"I shall be obliged; but don't let me intrude.  Give my compliments, and say I have looked
in simply to enquire after their health."

Here Mr Wagtail shouted from the inner apartment.

"Hillo!  Tom, my boy!  Tom Cringle!--here, my lad, here!"

