"Men like Colonel Troutman, Major Holmes, and Preacher Russell--Thomas Russell--they didn't
whip their Niggers and didn't allow no one else to whip them. They had a little guardhouse
on the plantation and they would lock them up in it. You'd better not hit one of their Niggers.
They'd take a pole or something and run you ragged."

Mean Masters

"White folks was cruel in slavery times. You see I was free and could go where I wanted too,
and I see'd a lot. Old Myer Green would take a Nigger and tie his feet to one side of a railroad
track and tie his hands to the other side, and whip him till the blood ran. Then he would take
him down to the smoke house and rub him down with lard and red pepper. 'Rub plenty in,' he
would say, 'Don't let him spoil.'

"Then I have seen them take up a ten-rail fence end set it down on a Nigger's neck and whip
him. If he would rare and twist and try to jump up, he would break his neck."

[HW: To follow 1st. par, P.7]

Pateroles (See also on Page 9)

"One night, when me and my mother was coming from town, my mother had a demijohn of whiskey.
They (pateroles) tried to take it. And she snatched a palling off the fence and nearly beat
them poor white trash to death. My mother was a good woman, strong as any man. I was sitting
on the demijohn. I was a little fellow then. They didn't do nothin' to her neither, 'cause
they knew what old Colonel Troutman would do." (Holloway's mother was midwife to Colonel Troutman's
wife and nurse and 'mammy' to his boy, although a free Indian.) [HW: Delete last sentence]

Mixed Bloods

"I can carry you to Columbus, Georgia. There was ten mulatto Niggers born there and you would
think they were all white; but they were all colored. They were slaves, but their master was
their Daddy.

"I'll tell you somethin'. W. H. Riley and Henry Miller,--You know them don't you--they are
blood brothers,--had the same mother and the same father. Riley's grandfather was a white man
named Miller. Miller got mad at his son, Riley's father, and sold him to a white man named
Riley. Riley took the name of his father's second master. After freedom, Henry and Josephine
took the name of Miller, their real grandfather. They said, 'Miller had never done anything'
for them."

Curious Beliefs and Slave Expectations of Freedom

"I was looking right in Lincoln's mouth when he said, 'The colored man is turned loose without
anything. I am going to give a dollar a day to every Negro born before Emancipation until his
death,--a pension of a dollar a day.' That's the reason they killed him. But they sure didn't
get it. It's going to be an awful thing up yonder when they hold a judgment over the way that
things was done down here."

Lincoln's Visit to Atlanta

"When the war was declared over, Abraham Lincoln came South and went to the capitol (of Atlanta),
and there was so many people to meet him he went up to the tower instead of in the State House.
He said, 'I did everything I could to keep out of war. Many of you agreed to turn the Negroes
loose, but Jeff Davis said that he would wade in blood up to his neck before he would do it.'

"He asked for all of the Confederate money to be brought up there. And when it was brought,
he called for the oldest colored men around. He said, 'Now, is you the oldest?' The man said,
'Yes Sir.' Then he threw him one of those little boxes of matches and told him to set fire
to it and burn it up.

"Then he said, 'I am going to disfranchise every one of you (the white folks), and it will
be ten years before you can even vote or get back into the Union.'"

Grant's Attitude

"Grant was the one that killed the Republican party. We ain't had but three real Republican
presidents since the war--Garfield, McKinley and Teddy Roosevelt. They killed Garfield, and
they killed McKinley, and they tried to kill Teddy Roosevelt. Well, they asked Grant if they
could make state constitutions. Grant said, 'Yes, if they didn't conflict with the national
constitution.' But they did conflict and Grant didn't do nothin' about it."

Schooling, Antebellum and Postbellum

"Northern teachers were sent down here after the war and they charged a dollar a month until
the State set up schools. Some of the Niggers learned enough in the six months school to teach,
and some white persons taught.

"In slave times, they didn't have any schools for Niggers. Niggers better not be caught with
a book. If he were caught with a book they beat him to death nearly. Niggers used to get hold
of this Webster's Blue Back Book and the white folks would catch them and take them away. They
didn't allow no free Niggers to go to school either in slave times."

Share Cropping

"I used to see Niggers in Georgia share cropping. Nigger work all the year. Christmas eve night
they would be going back to the plantation singing--done lost everything--sitting on the wagon
singing:

  'Sho' pity Lawd forgive
   That ar' pentant rebel live.'

"Then they would have to get clothes and food against the next year's crop. Then you'd see
'em on the wagon again driving back to the plantation loaded down with provisions, singing:

  'Lawd revive us agin
   All our increase comes from thee.'

"I used to study how them people could live. They didn't give but ten dollars a month for common
labor. They didn't give anything to the share cropper. They took all of it. They said he spent
it, borrowed it, and on like that."

Didn't Want To Be Free

"Some that didn't know any better didn't want to be free. Especially them that had hard taskmasters.
When the Nigger was turned loose sho nuff, some of them didn't have a good shirt to their back.
The master hated to lose them so bad, he wouldn't give them anything.

"But for twenty-five years after slave times, there ain't no race of people ever traveled as
fast as the Nigger did. But when the young ones came up, they are the ones what killed the
thing. An old white man said: 'We thought if you folks kept it up we or you one would have
to leave this country. But when the young ones came on, and began begrudging one another this
and that and working against one another, then we saw you would never make a nation.'"

Riots and KKK

"I have been in big riots. I was in the Atlanta riots in 1891. We lost about forty men, and
I don't know how many the white folks lost, but they said it was about a hundred. I used to
live there. I came here in 1892.

"We had a riot there when the KKK was raising so much Cain. The first Ku Klux wore some kind
of hat that went over the man's head and shoulders and had great big red eyes in it. They broke
open my house one night to whip me.

"I was working as a foreman in the shops. One night as I was going home, some men stopped and
said 'Who are you.' I answered 'H. B. Holloway.' Then they said, 'Well we'll be over to your
house tonight to whip you.'

"I said, 'We growed up together and you couldn't whip me then. How you 'spect to do it now.
You might kill me, but you can't beat me.'

"And one of them said, 'Well we'll be over to see you at eleven thirty tonight, and we are
going to beat you.'

"I went on home end told my wife what had happened. She was afraid and wanted me to leave and
take her and the children with her.

"But I said, 'No, you must take the little children and go in the bedroom and stay there.'

"She did. I had three sons that were grown up, between twenty and twenty-eight years old, and
I had a Winchester, a shotgun and a pistol. I gave the Winchester to the oldest, the shotgun
to the next, and the pistol to the youngest. I took my ax for myself. I stationed the boys
at the far end of the room--away from the door.

"The oldest said, 'Papa, let's kill them.'

"I said, 'No. You just stand there and do nothing till I tell you. When they break in, I'll
knock the first one in the head with the ax. But don't you do nothin' till I tell you.'

"After a while, we heard a noise outside, and I took my stand beside the door. Then they gave
a rush, and battered the door down. A man with a gray hood on jumped inside. I hit him side
the head with the flat of the ax, and he fell down across the door.

"Then the others rushed up, and the boys cut loose with all three of the guns, and such another
uproar you never heard. They high-tailed it down the street, and the boys took right after
them, shooting at their legs. The Winchester shot sixteen times, and the pistol shot six, and
the boy with the shotgun was shooting and breaking down and reloading and shooting again as
fast as he could.

"I went outside and whistled for the boys to come back. They come. They would always obey me.
I told them to carry the man I had hit out. He was still lying there. Through all the fuss
and uproar, he had been lying there across the doorway. Carried him out, and threw him on the
sidewalk. My eldest son said the man said, 'Holloway, don't hit me no more.'

"I didn't, but if I had known who he was then, I would have gone out and cut his throat. He
was old Colonel Troutman's son. There was just two hours difference in our birth. Me and him
both nursed from the same breast. We grew up together and were never separated until we were
thirteen (beginning of the war). Many people thought we were brothers. I had fought for him
and he had fought for me. When he wasn't at my house, I was at his, and his father partly raised
me. That's the reason I don't trust white people.

"We had a big dog that everyone was scared of. We always kept him chained up. I unchained the
dog, and took the boys and we went out in the woods. It was cold; so we made a fire under a
tall sapling.

"Near daylight, I said, 'The dog sees something, but we can't see what it is.' The eldest son
said, 'Pappy, if you get astride the dog, and look the way he's looking, you can see what he sees.'

"I got astride him and looked, and finally way off through the trees and the branches and leaves,
I saw six men riding through the woods on horseback. I took the guns away from the boys and
put the pistol and shotgun under the leaves at my feet. I made the boys separate and hide in
the brush at a good distance from me and from each other. I made the dog lie down beside me.
Then I waited.

"When the men came near me and were about to pass on looking for me, I hailed them. I told
them to stop right where they were or I'd drop them in their tracks. It was Colonel Troutman
and five other of the old men from town out hunting me.

"Colonel Troutman said, 'We just wanted to talk to you Holloway.'

"I said, 'Stand right where you are and talk.'

"After some talk, I let them come up slowly to a short distance from me. The upshot of the
whole thing was that they wanted me to go back to town with them to 'talk' over the matter.
They allowed I hadn't done nothin' wrong. But Colonel Troutman's man was hurt bad, and some
of the young men in the mob had had their legs broke. And they were all young men from the
town, boys that knew me and were friendly to me in the daytime. Still they wanted me to go
to town in their charge, and I knew I wouldn't have a chance if I did that. Finally I told
Colonel Troutman, that I was going home to see my wife that evening, and that if he wanted
to talk to me, he could come over there and talk.

"When they left, I sent the boys along home and told them to tell my wife. That night when
I got home, Colonel Troutman was in the house talking to my wife. I went in quietly. He said
that they said I had forty Niggers hid in the house that night. I told him that there wasn't
anybody there but me and my family, and that all the damage that was done I done myself. He
said that well he didn't blame me; that even if it was his son, they broke in on me and I had
a right to defend my family, and that none of the old heads was going to do anything about
it. He said I was a good man and had never given anybody any trouble and that there wasn't
any excuse for anybody comin' stirrin' up trouble with me. And that was the end of it."

Hoodoo

"My wife was sick, down, couldn't do nothin'. Someone got to telling her about Cain Robertson.
Cain Robertson was a hoodoo doctor in Georgia. They there wasn't nothin' Cain couldn't do.
She says, 'Go and see Cain and have him come up here.'

"I says, 'There ain't no use to send for Cain. Cain ain't coming up here because they say he
is a "two-head" Nigger.' (They called all them hoodoo men 'two-head' Niggers; I don't know
why they called them two-head.) 'And you know he knows the white folks will put him in jail
if he comes to town.'

"But she says, 'You go and get him.'

"So I went.

"I left him at the house and when I came back in, he said, 'I looked at your wife and she had
one of then spells while I was there. I'm afraid to tackle this thing because she has been
poisoned and it's been goin' on a long time. And if she dies, they'll say I killed her and
they already don't like me and lookin' for an excuse to do somethin' to me.'

"My wife overheard him and says, 'You go on, you got to do somethin'.'

"So he made me go to town and get a pint of corn whiskey. When I brought it back, he drunk
a half of it at one gulp, and I started to knock him down. I'd thought he'd get drunk with
my wife lying there sick.

"Then he said, 'I'll have to see your wife's stomach.' Then he scratched it, and put three
little horns on the place he scratched. Then he took another drink of whiskey and waited about
ten minutes. When he took them off her stomach, they were full of blood. He put them in the
basin in some water and sprinkled some powder on them, and in about ten minutes more, he made
me get them and they were full of clear water and there was a lot of little things that looked
like wiggle tails swimming around in it.

"He told me when my wife got well to walk in a certain direction a certain distance and the
woman that caused all the trouble would come to my house and start a fuss with me.

"I said, 'Can't you put this same thing back on her.'

"He said, 'Yes, but it would kill my hand.' He meant that he had a curing hand and that if
he made anybody sick or killed them, all his power to cure would go from him.

"I showed the stuff he took out of my wife's stomach to old Doc Matthews and he said, 'You
can get anything into a person by putting it in them.' He asked me how I found out about it,
and how it was taken out, and who did it.

"I told him all about it, and he said, 'I'm going to see that that Nigger practices anywhere
in this town he wants to and nobody bothers him.' And he did."

Opinions of Young People

"The young Niggers aint got as much sense as the old ones had,--those that were born before
the war. One thing, they don't read enough. They don't know history. I can't understand them.
Looks like to me they had a mighty good chance; but it looks like the more they get the worse
they are. Looks like to me their parents didn't teach them right--or somethin'. Young ladies--I
look at them every day of my life--coarse, swearing, running with bootleggers, and running
the hoodlums down, smoking, going half-naked, and so on. They don't care what they do or nothing."

Relatives

"My brother was in Collodiusville, Georgia, the last time I heard from him. That is in Monroe
County, or Upton County,--I don't know what county it's in. I know he is there if he is living
because he owns a home there.

"William always lived in Macon but he is dead. Bud,--I don't know where he is. Milton, Irving,
and Zekiel, I don't know where they are. I used to keep up with them regular. But we ain't
written to each other in a long time.

"The last time I heard from Mahala and Laura, their husbands were bricklayers and they were
living in Atlanta, I think. They went some other place where there was plenty of work. I think
it was to Cleveland, Ohio. There's Josephine, Mandy, and little Mary--five sisters and seven
brothers.

"Outside of William, Crawford, and Milton, I haven't seen none of them since fifty years. I
haven't seen Zekiel since the year of the surrender. I seen some of the white folks the year
they had the re-union here. They seen me on the street, and came over and talked to me, and
wanted me to go back to Fort Valley, and offered to pay my railroad fare. But I told 'em I
was goin' to stay here in God's country."

  This information given by: H. B. Holloway (Dad or Pappy)
  Place of Residence: 1524 Valentine Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Occupation: Formerly railroader and drayman--Pension now.
  Age: 89

  --- 29 1938
  Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson
  Person interviewed: Pink Holly
                      Holly Grove, Arkansas
  Age: 70

"I was born in Anderson County, South Carolina. My papa was Abe Brown and my mama was Lizzie
White. She died when I was a baby and Miss Nancy White took me up to her house and raised me.
Her husband was Mars Henry White. They was good to me. Miss Nancy was the best. They treated
me like their own boy. It was done freedom then but my papa stayed on the place. I learned
to do up the night turns, slop the hogs and help bout the milkin'. They had young calves to
pull off. I toted in the wood and picked up chips. She done everything for me and all the mother
I knowed.

"When I was seven years old my papa pulled me off to Arkansas. We come on a immigration ticket,
least I recken we did. I don't think my papa paid our way. We was brought here. The land was
better they told em.

"We settled in the woods close to Mariana and commenced farmin'. I been farmin' and workin'
in the timber and I carpenters a little. The timber is gone.

"I supports myself all I can. I own a little house at Clarendon I recken is the reason I don't
get no Government help."

  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Dora Holmes [HW crossed out: (light brown)]
                      1500 Valentine St., Little Rock, Ark.
  Age: 60?
  Occupation: Housewife

"My father's half brothers were white. They all fought in the army. They were Confederate soldiers.
Once during the war when they came home, they brought my mother the goods for two dresses,--twenty
yards of figured voile, ten yards for each dress. The cost of the whole twenty yards was fifty
dollars ($50.00).

"I still have the dresses and some petticoats and pantaloons which are nearly as old. I have
ironed these things many a time until they were so stiff they stand straight up on the floor."

Interviewer's Comments

Mary Ann King, mother of Dora Holmes, was the original owner of the dresses. She died at the
age of ninety-eight two or three years ago. One of the dresses is still in the possession of
the daughter. It has a skirt with nine gores and a twelve-inch headed ruffle.

The petticoat is of white muslin with a fifty-two yard lace ruffle in sixteen tiers of lace
with beading at the top. It was worn just after the Civil War.

There are also a baby dress and a baby petticoat fifty-six years old.

  MAY 31 1938
  Interviewer: Samuel S. Taylor
  Person interviewed: Elijah Henry Hopkins
                      1308½ Ringo Street, Little Rock, Arkansas
  Age: 81

"My father's master was old Tom Willingham, an awful big farmer who owned farms in Georgia
and South Carolina, both. He lived in southwest Georgia in Baker County. Old man Willingham's
wife was Phoebe Hopkins. Her mother was old lady Hopkins. I don't know what the rest of her
name was. We never called her nothin' but old lady Hopkins or Mother Hopkins. She was one of
the richest women in the state. When she died, her estate was divided among her children and
grandchildren. Her slaves were part of her estate. They were divided among her children and
grandchildren, too. Tom Willingham's family come in for its part. He had three sons, Tom, Jr.,
John, and Robert. My father already belonged to Tom Willingham, Sr., so he stayed with him.
But my mother belonged to old lady Hopkins, and she went to Robert, so my daddy and mother
were separated before I knew my daddy. My father stayed with old man Willingham until freedom.

"Robert Willingham was my mother's master. He never married. When he died he willed all his
slaves free. But his relatives got together and broke the will and never did let 'em go.

"When I saw my father to know him, I saw him out in Georgia. They told me that was my father.
Then he had another wife and a lot of children. My mother brought me up and my father taken
charge of me after she died and after freedom--about a year after. It was close to emancipation
because the states were still under martial law.

"I was born May 15, 1856, in the Barnwell district, South Carolina. They used to call them
districts then. It would be Barnwell County now. They changed and started calling 'em counties
in 1866 [HW: 1868?] or thereabouts. I was running around when they mustered the men in for
the Civil War, and I was about nine years old when the War ended. I was about ten when my mother
died and my father taken charge of me. I was taken from South Carolina when I was about four
years old and carried into Georgia and stayed there until emancipation. My mother didn't tarry
long in Georgia after she was emancipated. She went back into South Carolina; but she died
in a short time, as I just said. Then my father taken charge of me. I got married in South
Carolina in 1885, and then I came out here in 1886--to Arkansas. Little Rock was the first
place I came to. I didn't stay here a great while. I went down to the Reeder farm on the Arkansas
River just about sixteen miles above Pine Bluff. I started share cropping but taken down sick.
I never could get used to drinking that bottom water. Then I went to Pine Bluff and went to
work with the railroad and helped to widen the gauge of the Cotton Belt Road. Then the next
year they started the Sewer Contract, and I worked in that and I worked on the first water
plant they started. In working with the King Manufacturing Company I learned piping.

"I stayed in Pine Bluff sixteen years. My wife died August 1, 1901. A couple of years after
that, I came back to Little Rock, and have been here ever since. I went to work on the Illinois
Central Railroad just across the river, which is now the Rock Island Railroad. After it became
the Rock Island, the bridge was built across the river east of Main Street. They used to go
over the old Baring Cross Bridge and had to pay for it. The Missouri Pacific enjoined the Rock
Island and wouldn't let it go straight through, so they built their own bridge and belted the
city and went on around. I got stricken down sick in 1930 and haven't been able to do heavy
work since. You know, a plumber and steam-fitter have to do awful heavy work.

"I get a little old age assistance from the state. They are supposed to give me commodities
but my card got out and they ain't never give me another one. I went down to see about it today,
and they said they'd mail me another one."

How the Little Children Were Fed

"My mother was always right in the house with the white people and I was fed just like I was
one of their children. They even done put me to bed with them. You see, this discrimination
on color wasn't as bad then as it is now. They handled you as a slave but they didn't discriminate
against you on account of color like they do now. Of course, there were brutal masters then
just like there are brutal people now. Louisiana and Alabama and Mississippi always were tough
states on colored people. South Carolina and Georgia got that way after people from those places
came in and taught them to mistreat colored people. Yet in Alabama and Louisiana where they
colored people were worse treated, it seems that they got hold of more property and money.
Same way it was in Mississippi."

Patrollers

"The patrollers was just a set of mean men organized in every section of the country. If they'd
catch a nigger out and he didn't have a pass, they'd tie him up and whip him and then they'd
take him back. You had to have a pass to be out at night. Even in the daytime you couldn't
go no great distance without a pass. Them big families--rich families--that had big plantations
would come together and the niggers from two or three places might go to a church on one of
them. But you couldn't go no place where there wasn't a white man looking on."

Reading and Writing in Slave Time

"Some of the white people thought so much of their slaves that they would teach them how to
write and read. But they would teach them secretly and they would teach them not to read or
write out where anybody would notice them. They didn't mind you reading as much as they minded
you writing. If they'd catch YOU now and it was then, they'd take you out and chop off them
fingers you're doing that writing with."

Slave Occupation and Wages

"My daddy was a builder. Old man Willingham gave him freedom and time to work on his own account.
He gave him credit for what work he done for him. He got three hundred dollars a year for my
father's time, but all the money was collected by him, because my father being a slave couldn't
collect any money from anybody. When my father's master died, he may have had money deposited
with him. But he was strictly honest with my father. No matter how much he collected, he wouldn't
take no more'n three hundred dollars and he put all the rest to the credit of my father. He
said three hundred dollars was enough to take."

How Freedom Came

"The owners went to work and notified the slaves that they were free. After the proclamation
was issued, the government had agents who went all through the country to see if the slaves
had been freed. They would see how the proclamation was being carried out. They would ask them,
'How are you working?' 'You are free.' 'What are you getting?' Some of them would say, 'I ain't
gettin' nothin' now.' Well, the agent would take that up and they would have that owner up
before the government. Maybe he would be working people for a year and giving them nothin'
before they found him out. There are some places where they have them cases yet. Where they
have people on the place and ain't paying them nothin'."

Memories of Soldiers and the War

"I have seen thousands and thousands of soldiers. Sometimes it would take a whole day for them
to pass through. When Sherman's army marched through Atlanta, it took more than a day. I was
in Atlanta then. He sent word ahead that he was coming through and for all people that weren't
soldiers to get out of the town. I saw the Rebels, too; I saw them when they stacked their
arms. Looked like there was a hundred or more rifles in each stack. They just come up and pitched
them down. They had to stack their arms and turn them over.

"I was taken to Georgia when I was four years old, you know. I recollect when all the people
came up to swear allegiance, and when they were hurrying out to get away from Sherman's army.
They fit in Atlanta and then marched on toward Savannah. Then they crossed over into South
Carolina. They went on through Columbia and just tore it up. Then they worked their way on
back into Georgia. They didn't fight in Augusta though.

"Jeff Davis was captured not far from my father's place[7]. Jeff Davis had a big army, but
the biggest thing he had was about a thousand wagons or more piled up with silver and other
things belonging to the Confederacy. He was supposed to be taking care of that. He had to turn
it over to the North."

'Shin Plasters'

"They had a kind of money right after the Civil War--paper money gotten out by the United States
Government and supposed to be good. The Confederate money was no good but this money--these
'shin plasters' as they were called--was good money issued by the government. They did away
with it and called it all in. You could get more for it now than it is worth. The old green
back took its place but the 'shin plaster' was in all sizes. It wasn't just a dollar bill.
It was in pinnies, five cents, ten cents, twenty-five cents, and then they skipped on up to
fifty cents, and they didn't have nothin' more till you got to a dollar."

Schooling

"I haven't had a great deal of schooling. I have had a little about in places. Just after the
emancipation, my mother died and my father married again. My stepmother had other children
and they kept me out of my education. Since I have been grown, I have gotten a little training
here and there. Still I have served as supervisor of elections and done other things that they
wanted educated people to do. But it was just merely a pick-up of my own. The first teachers
I had were white women from the North."

Politics

"I have never taken a great deal of interest in politics. Only in the neighborhood where I
lived there was a colony of colored people at Bentley, South Carolina. They chose me to represent
them at the polls and I did the best I could. I got great credit for both the colored and the
white people for that. But I never took much interest in politics.

"My father spent a fortune in it but I never could see that it benefited him. I never did care
for any kind of office except a mail contract that I had once to haul mail. I went through
that successfully and never lost a pouch or anything but at the end of the year I throwed it
up. I couldn't trust anyone else to handle it for me and I had to meet trains at all hours.
The longest I could sleep was two or three hours a night, so I gave it up at the end of the year."

Care of Old People

"Some of the masters treated us worse than dogs and others treated us fine. Colonel Robert
Willingham freed his slaves but his sisters and brothers wouldn't stand for it. They went and
stole us off and sold us. My mother being a thrifty colored woman and a practical nurse, everywhere
she went, a case gave thirty dollars and her board and mine. My father paid his master three
hundred dollars a year. He built these gin houses and presses. The old man would write him
passes and everything and see that he was paid for his work. Some years, he would make as much
as three or four thousand dollars. His master collected it and held it for him and gave it
to him when he wanted it. That was during slavery times."

Opinion of the Present

"Slavery days were hard but in the same time the colored people fared better than now because
the white folks taken up for them and they raised what they needed to eat. You couldn't go
nowhere but what people had plenty to eat. Now they can't do it.

"I know what caused it too. The Jews didn't have much privilege till after the Negro was emancipated.
They used to kill Jews and bury them in the woods. But after emancipation, he began to rise.
First he began to lend money on small interest. Then he started another scheme. People used
to not have sense. They went to work and got in with the Southern white folks and got a law
passed about the fences.

