The "NORFOLK BROADS," according to the Standard, are in future to be the English cradle of
the German "Bass." Not beer, but fish. There are to be "no takers" at present, so the cradle
will not be a Bass-in-net.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

OPERATIC NOTES.

Wednesday.--Welcome once more to our old friend, Norma, the Deceived Druidess, who was called
Norma for short, she being an orphan, and having "nor par, nor ma." The Ancient Order of Druids,
with Arch-Druid Oroveso in the chair, might have had a better brass band. Norma nowadays is
not particularly attractive, and the house, when it is given, cannot be expected to be more
than normal or ordinary.

Thursday.--Orféo. First appearance of Miles. GIULIA and SOFIA RAVOGLI in GLÜCK'S beautiful
Opera, which has not been seen here for many years, but--judging from its reception by a full
and delighted house--will be seen many times before Signor LAGO'S season comes to an end. Enthusiastic
reception of GIULIA RAVOGLI as Orpheus; double recall after three of the four Acts; house insisting
on having "Che farò" all over again. Orchestra, under Signor BEVIGNANI, admirable. Recreations
of Demons and Furies, when let out of Gates of Erebus for a half-holiday, peculiar, not to
say eccentric. Demons lie on rocks, with silver serpents round their necks as comforters, claw
the air, and trot round in circles, after which they exhibit Dutch-metalled walking-sticks
to one another with sombre pride. Furies trip measures and strike attitudes in pink tights
and draperies of unæsthetic hues, when not engaged in witnessing, with qualified interest,
incidental dances by two premières danseuses. Hades evidently less dull than generally supposed.

       *       *       *       *       *

SUGGESTION.--Curious that no enterprising shaving-soap proprietor has as yet, as far as we
know, advertised his invention as "Tabula Rasa." This is worth thousands, and takes the cake--of
soap.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUIS NOMINABIT?

(Being a few Remarks à Apropos of a "British Academy of Letters.")

    MR. PUNCH, SIR,

    I have been reading with some morbid interest a series of
    contributions to the pages of a contemporary from several more
    or less distinguished literary men who have apparently been
    invited to express their opinions, favourable or the reverse,
    on the recently launched proposition to establish in our
    midst, after the French model, a "British Academy of Letters."
    Some ask, "What's the use?" Others want to know who is to
    elect the elected, and seem much exercised in their minds
    as to the status and qualifications of those who ought to
    be chosen for the purpose of discharging this all-important
    function. As to what would be the use of an institution of
    the kind, the answer is so obvious that I will not attempt to
    reply to it. But if it comes to naming a representative body
    capable of selecting the two or three thousand aspirants
    who have already, in imagination, seen their claims to the
    distinction recognised by the elective body to which has been
    entrusted the duty of weighing their respective merits--well
    then, to use a colloquial phrase, I may confidently say that
    "I am all there!"

    Of course. Royalty must head it, so I head the list of, say,
    twelve Academic Electors, with the name of H.R.H. the Prince
    of WALES. This should be followed up by that of some generally
    widely-known personage, who has the literary confidence of
    the public, and in this connection, I have no hesitation in
    supplying it by that of the Compiler of Bradshaw's Railway
    Guide. Several now should follow, of varied and even
    conflicting interests, so as to satisfy any over-captious
    criticism inclined to question the thoroughly cosmopolitan
    character of the elective body. And so I next add, Mr. Sheriff
    AUGUSTUS HARRIS, H.R.H. the Duke of CAMBRIDGE, the Proprietor
    of PEARS' Soap, and the Beadle of the Burlington Arcade.

    It might now be well to give a distinctively literary flavour
    to the body, and so I am disposed to continue my list with the
    names of the Poet Laureate and the City Editor of Tit Bits,
    following them up with the representatives of commercial
    enterprise, speculative art, and sportive leisure, guaranteed
    respectively by the names of the Chairman of the Chelsea
    Steam-boat Company, Mr. R. D'OYLY CARTE, and Prince HENRY
    OP BATTENBERG. For the twelfth, and remaining name, I
    would suggest that of Mr. HENRY IRVING, the Archbishop of
    CANTERBURY, the Manager of Madame TUSSAUD'S Wax Works, Sir
    WILFRID LAWSON, General BOOTH, Mr. SLAVIN, Mr. J.L. TOOLE, or
    any other striking or notable one that arrests the eye with
    the familiarity of long acquaintance. With the existing
    deplorable position of the Pantomime literature of the
    country, there can be little need to question further the
    necessity of a British Academy of Letters. The naming of those
    who are to constitute that institution is another thing;
    but if an authoritative fountain-head, to discharge this
    inevitable function, is sought, and the public puts the
    question, "Quis Nominabit?" I think, Sir, you will admit
    that I have most satisfactorily supplied the answer. Trusting
    to your judicious appreciation of the full gravity of the
    matter at issue, to publish this communication,

    I am, Sir, your obedient servant,

    A VERY POSSIBLE FUTURE ACADEMICIAN.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEFORE AND BEHIND.

(From a Thoughtful Grammarian.)

    SIR,--In the Times' Court Circular, on Friday last, I read
    that--

    "Mr. WILLIAM NICHOLL had the honour of singing before Her
    MAJESTY and the Royal Family."

    This was indeed an honour. I regret that the Courtly
    Circularist did not tell us what Mr. NICHOLL sang before the
    QUEEN and Royal Family, and also what the QUEEN and Royal
    Family sang (solo and chorus?) after Mr. NICHOLL. But suppose
    "before" does not here relate to time, but to position.
    It would have been a novelty indeed, and one well worth
    recording, if Mr. NICHOLL had had the honour of sinking
    behind the Royal Family. And then, what a compliment if Her
    Gracious MAJESTY and the Royal Family had all turned round to
    listen to him! If I am wrong in my interpretation of the
    Court Circular's Circular Note, wouldn't it have prevented any
    possible error to have said, "In the presence of"? I only ask
    for information, and am

    Yours,

    FIDELITER.

       *       *       *       *       *

A NEW TRACT FOR THE SALVATION ARMY.--The "General," who is the biggest BOOTH in the show, announced
last week that he had been offered a big tract of land. Hear! Hear! Where? Where? "Anywhere,
anywhere out of the world "--at least, out of our little world of Great Britain & Co. Let not
"the General" be too particular, but accept the tract,--though he is more used to distributing
tracts than accepting them,--and let him and his army, his lads and lasses, go away and leave
us to enjoy our Sundays in peace and quiet.

       *       *       *       *       *

NEW CITY FIRM (adapted from West End by Our Own Scotchman).--"SAVORY AND MAYOR."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

VOCES POPULI.

AN EVENING WITH A CONJUROR.

