"Two tails!" cried the gaffers, and the trot of  heads was finished. Chook's stake was swept
away, and the boxer handed him ten pounds. Chook tossed a pound to him for commission.  He
acknowledged it with a grunt, and looking round the ring at the winning players cried out "How
is it?--how is it?"  With his other winnings Chook had over fifteen pounds in his pocket, and
he decided to go, although the night was young. As he went to the stairs, the boxer cried out,
"No one to leave for five minutes!" following the custom when a big winner left the room, to
prevent a swarm of cadgers, lug-biters, and spielers begging a tram fare, a bed, a cup of coffee
from the winner.  When Chook reached the top of the staircase, the G.P.O. clock began to strike,
and Chook stopped to listen, for he had forgotten the lapse of time.  He counted the last stroke,
eleven, and then, as if it had been a signal, came the sound of voices and a noise of hammering
from the front door.  The next moment the doorkeeper ran up the narrow staircase crying "The
Johns are here!"

For a moment the crowd of gamblers stared, aghast; then the look of trapped animals came into
their faces, and with the noise of splintering wood below, they made a rush at the money on
the floor. The boxer ran swearing into the ring to hide the kip and the pennies, butting with
his bull shoulders against a mob of frenzied gaffers mad with fear and greed, grabbing at any
coins they could reach in despair of finding their own. The news spread like fire.  The school
was surrounded by a hundred policemen in plain clothes and uniform; every outlet from the alley
was watched and guarded.  A cold scorn of the police filled Chook's mind. For months the school
ran unmolested, and then a raid was planned in the spirit of sportsmen arranging a drive of
rabbits for a day's outing.  This raid meant capture by the police, an ignominious procession
two by two to the lock-up, a night in the cells unless bail was found, and a fine and a lecture
from the magistrate in the morning.  To some it meant more.  To the bank clerk it meant the
sack; to the cashier who was twenty pounds short in his cash, an examination of his books and
discovery; to the spieler who was wanted by the police, scrutiny by a hundred pair of official
eyes.

The gaffers ran here and there bewildered, cursing and swearing in an impotence of rage.  Like
trapped rats the men ran to the windows and doors, but the room, fortified with iron bars and
barbed wire, held them like a trap.  The boxer cried out that bail would be found for the captured,
but his bull roar was lost in the din.

There was a rush of heavy police boots on the stairs, the lights were suddenly turned out,
and in the dark a wild scramble for liberty. Someone smashed a window that was not barred,
and a swarm of men fought round the opening, dropping one by one on to the roof of some stables.
The first man through shouted something and tried to push back, but a frenzied stream of men
pushed him and the others into the arms of the police, who had marked this exit beforehand.
Chook found himself on the roof, bleeding from a cut lip, and hatless.  Below him men were
crouching on the roofs like cats, to be picked off at the leisure of the police.

He could never understand how he escaped.  He stood on the roof awaiting capture quietly, as
resistance was useless, picked up a hat two sizes too large for him, and, walking slowly to
the end of the roof, ducked suddenly under an old signboard that was nailed to a chimney. 
Every moment he expected a John to walk up to him, but, to his amazement, none came. As a man
may walk unhurt amid a shower of bullets, he had walked unseen under twenty policemen's eyes.
From Castlereagh Street came a murmur of voices.  The theatres were out, and a huge crowd,
fresh from the painted scenes and stale odours of the stalls and gallery, watched with hilarious
interest the harlequinade on the roofs.  In half an hour a procession was formed, two deep,
guarded by the police, and followed by a crowd stumbling over one another to keep pace with
it, shouting words of encouragement and sympathy to the prisoners.  Five minutes later Chook
slithered down a veranda post, a free man, and walked quietly to the tram.

CHAPTER 18

THE "ANGEL" LOSES A CUSTOMER

Six months after the death of Mrs Yabsley, Ada and Mrs Herring sat in the back parlour of the
Angel sipping brandy.  They had drunk their fill and it was time to be going, but Ada had no
desire to move.  She tapped her foot gently as she listened to the other woman's ceaseless
flow of talk, but her mind was elsewhere.  She had reached the stage when the world seemed
a delightful place to live in; when it was a pleasure to watch the people moving and gesticulating
like figures in a play, without jar or fret, as machines move on well-oiled cogs.

There was nothing to show that she had been drinking, except an uncertain smile that rippled
over her heavy features as the wind breaks the surface of smooth water.  Mrs Herring was as
steady as a rock, but she knew without looking that the end of her nose was red, for drink
affected that organ as heat affects a poker.  Ada looked round with affection on the small
room with the sporting prints, the whisky calendar, and the gong. For months past she had felt
more at home there than at the "Silver Shoe."

She had never forgotten the scene that had followed her first visit to this room, when Jonah,
surprised by her good humour, had smelt brandy on her breath.  The sight of a misshapen devil,
with murder in his eyes, spitting insults, had sobered her like cold water.  She had stammered
out a tale of a tea-room where she had been taken ill, and brandy had been brought in from
the adjoining hotel.  Mrs Herring, who had spent a lifetime in deceiving men, had prepared
this story for her as one teaches a lesson to a child, but she had forgotten it until she found
herself mechanically repeating it, her brain sobered by the shock.  For a month she had avoided
the woman with the hairy lip, and then the death of her mother had removed the only moral barrier
that stood between her and hereditary impulse.

Since then she had gone to pieces.  Mrs Herring had prescribed her favourite remedy for grief,
a drop of cordial, and Jonah for once found himself helpless, for Mrs Herring taught Ada more
tricks than a monkey. Privately she considered Ada a dull fool, but she desired her company,
for she belonged to the order of sociable drunkards, for whom drink has no flavour without
company, and who can no more drink alone than men can smoke in the dark.  Ada was an ideal
companion, rarely breaking the thread of her ceaseless babble, and never forgetting to pay
for her share.  It was little enough she could squeeze out of Aaron, and often she drank for
the afternoon at Ada's expense.

She looked anxiously at Ada, and then at the clock.  For she drank with the precision of a
patient taking medicine, calculating to a drop the amount she could carry, and allowing for
the slight increase of giddiness when she stepped into the fresh air of the streets.  But to-day
she felt anxious, for Ada had already drunk a glass too much, and turned from her coaxings
with an obstinate smile.  The more she drank, she thought, the less she would care for what
Jonah said when she got home.  Mrs Herring felt annoyed with her for threatening to spoil a
pleasant afternoon, but she talked on to divert her thoughts from the brandy.

"And remember what I told you, dearie.  Every woman should learn to manage men.  Some say you
should study their weak points, but that was never my way.  They all like to think their word
is law, and you can do anything you please if you pretend you are afraid to do anything without
asking their permission.  And always humour them in one thing. Now, Aaron insists on punctuality.
His meals must be ready on the stroke, and once he is fed, I can do as I please.  Now, do be
ruled by me, dearie, and come home."

But Ada had turned unmanageable, and called for more drink.  Mrs Herring could have slapped
her.  Her practised eye told her that Ada would soon be too helpless to move, and she thought,
with a cringing fear, of Aaron the Jew, and her board and lodging that depended on his stomach.

Outside it had begun to rain, and Joe Grant, a loafer by trade and a lug-biter by circumstance,
shifted from one foot to another, and stared dismally at the narrow slit between the swinging
doors of the "Angel", where he knew there was warmth, and light, and comfort--everything that
he desired.  The rain, fine as needle-points, fell without noise, imperceptibly covering his
clothes and beard with  moisture.  The pavements and street darkened as if a shadow had been
thrown over them, and then shone in irregular streaks and patches of light, reflected from
the jets of light that suddenly appeared in the shop windows.  Joe looked at the clock through
the windows of the bar.  It was twenty to six.  The rain had brought the night before its time,
and Joe wondered what had become of Mrs Jones and her pal.  He had had the luck to see her
going in at the side door, and she was always good for a tray bit when she came out. Failing
her, he must depend on the stream of workmen, homeward bound, who always stopped at the Angel
for a pint on their way home.

Suddenly the huge white globes in front of the hotel spluttered and flashed, piercing the darkness
and the rain with their powerful rays. The bar, as suddenly illumined, brilliant with mirrors
and glass, invited the weary passenger in to share its comforts.  Joe fingered the solitary
coin in his pocket--threepence.  It was more than the price of a beer to him; it was the price
of admission to the warm, comfortable bar every night, for the landlord was the friend of every
man with the price of a drink in his pocket, and once inside, he could manage to drink at other
people's expense till closing time.  He kept an eye on the side door for Ada and Mrs Herring,
at the same time watching each pedestrian as he emerged from the darkness into the glare of
the electric lights.

The fine points of rain had gradually increased to a smart downfall, that drummed on the veranda
overhead and gurgled past his feet in the gutter. Behind him, from a leak in the pipe, the
water fell to the ground with a noisy splash as if someone had turned on a tap.  Joe felt that
he hated water like a cat.  His watery blue eyes, fixed with a careless scrutiny on every face,
told him in an instant whether the owner was a likely mark that he could touch for a drink,
but his luck was out.  He decided that the two women must have slipped out by another door.

Jonah, who had been caught in the shower, stopped for a moment under the veranda, anxious to
get back to the Silver Shoe before closing time.  Joe let him pass without stirring a muscle;
he knew him.  If you asked him for a drink, he offered you work.  But, as Jonah hesitated before
facing the rain again, a sudden anger flamed in his mind at the sight of Jonah's gold watch-chain
and silver-mounted umbrella.  Cripes, he knew that fellow when he knocked about with the Push,
and now he was rolling in money!  And with the sudden impulse of a suicide who throws himself
under a train, he stepped up to Jonah.

"Could I 'ave a word with yer, Mr Jones?" he mumbled.

"'Ello, Smacker!  Just gittin' 'ome, like myself?" said Jonah.

"Not much use gittin' 'ome to an empty 'ouse," said Joe, with a doleful whine, "an' I've earned
nuthin' this week."

"'Ow do yer expect to find work, when the only place yer look fer it is in the bottom of a
beer-glass?" said Jonah.

"I 'ave me faults, none knows better than meself,"  said Joe humbly, "but thinkin' of them
won't fill me belly on a night like this."

"Now look 'ere," said Jonah, "I'm in a 'urry.  I won't give yer any money, but if ye're 'ungry,
come across the street, an' I'll buy yer a meal."

Joe hesitated, but the thought of good money being wasted on food was too much for him, and
he played his last card.

"Look, I'll tell yer straight, Mr Jones; it's no use tryin' to pull yer leg.  I can git all
the tucker I want for the askin', but I'm dyin' for a beer to cheer me up an' keep out the cold."

He smiled at Jonah with an air of frankness, hoping to play on Jonah's vanity by this cynical
confession, but his heart sank as Jonah replied "No, not a penny for drink," and prepared to
dive into the rain.

"'Orl right, boss," muttered Joe; and then, half to himself, he added "'Ard luck, to grudge
a man a pint, with 'is own missis inside there gittin' as full as a tick."

"What's that yer say?" cried Jonah, turning pale.

"Nuthin'," muttered Joe, conscious that he had made a mistake.

But a sudden light flashed on Jonah.  Ada had lied to him from the beginning.  She had told
him that she got the drink at Paddy Boland's in the Haymarket, a notorious drinking-den for
women, where spirits were served to customers, disguised as light refreshments.  The fear of
a public scandal in a room full of women had alone prevented him from going there to find her.
It was Mrs Herring's craft to throw Jonah on the wrong scent, and sip comfortably in the back
parlour of the Angel, safe from detection, a stone's throw from the Silver Shoe.  Jonah turned
and walked in at the side door, leaving Joe with the uneasy feeling of the man who killed the
goose to get the golden eggs.

Ada had just rung the gong, insisting on another drink with the fatuous obstinacy of drunkards.
She lolled in her chair, her hat tilted over one ear, watching the door for the return of Cassidy
with the tray and glasses, and wondering dimly why Mrs Herring's voice sounded far away, as
if she were speaking through a telephone.  Mrs Herring, the tip of her nose growing a brighter
red with drink and vexation, was scolding and coaxing by turns in a rapid whisper.  Suddenly
she stopped, her eyes fixed in a petrified stare at an apparition in the doorway.  It was the
devil himself, Ada's husband, the hunchback.  As he stood in the doorway, his eyes travelled
from her to his wife.  His face turned white, a nasty greyish white, his eyes snapped like
an angry cat's, and then his face hardened in a sneer.  But Ada, who was fast losing consciousness
of her identity, stared at her husband without fear or surprise.  The deadly silence was broken
by the arrival of Cassidy, who nearly ran into Jonah with the tray.

"Beg pardon," said he, briskly, and looking down found himself staring into the face of a grinning
corpse.

"Don't mind me, Cassidy," said the corpse, speaking.  "She can stand another glass, I think."

Cassidy put the tray down with a jerk that upset the glasses.

"I'm very sorry this should have happened, Mr Jones," he stammered. "I'm very ..."

"Of course you are," cried Jonah.  "Ye're sorry fer anythin' that interferes with yer business
of turning men and women into swine."

"Come now," said Cassidy, making a last stand on his dignity, "this is a public house, and
I am bound to serve drink to anyone that asks for it. As a matter of fact, I didn't know the
lady was in this condition till the barman sent me in to see what could be done."

"You're a liar, an' a fat liar.  I hate fat liars--I don't know why--an' if yer tell another,
I'll ram yer teeth down yer throat. She's been comin' 'ere for months, an' you've been sending
her home drunk for the sake of a few shillings, to poison my life and make her name a byword
in the neighbourhood.  Now, listen to me!  You'll not serve that woman again with drink under
any pretext whatever."

"I should be glad to oblige you; but this is a public house, as I said before..."

He stopped as Jonah took a step forward, his fists clenched, transformed in a moment into Jonah
the larrikin, king of the Cardigan Street Push.

"D'ye remember me, Cassidy?" he cried.  "I've sent better men than you to the 'orspital in
a cab.  D'ye remember w'en yer were a cop with one stripe, an' we smashed every window in Flanagan's
pub for laggin'? D'ye remember the time yer used ter turn fer safety down a side street w'en
yer saw us comin'?"

Cassidy's face stiffened for a moment, the old policeman coming to life again at the sight
of his natural enemy, the larrikin.  But years of ease had buried the guardian of the law under
layers of fat.  He stepped hastily back from Jonah's fists.

"No, I won't hit yer; yer might splash," cried Jonah bitterly.

And Cassidy, forgetting that the dreaded Push was scattered to the winds, and trembling for
the safety of his windows, spoke in a changed voice.

"I'll do anything to meet your wishes, Mr Jones.  There's no call to rake up old times.  We've
both got on since then, and it won't pay us to be enemies.  I promise you faithfully that your
wife shan't be served with drink here."

"I'm glad to 'ear it," said Jonah; "an' now yer better 'elp me ter git 'er 'ome."

He looked round the room.  There were only himself, Cassidy, and Ada. Mrs Herring, who had
been paralysed by the sight of the devil in the shape of a hunchback, had found herself on
the footpath, sober as a judge, without very well knowing how she got there.

Ada, stupefied with brandy, and tired over the long conversation, had fallen asleep on the
table.  Jonah went to the door and called Joe, who was listening dismally to the hum of voices
raised in argument and the pleasant clink of glasses in the bar, now filled with workmen carrying
their bags of tools, their faces covered with the sweat and grime of the day.

"Fetch me a cab, Smacker," he said.  "My wife's been taken ill.  She fainted in the street,
and they brought her here to recover."

"Right y'are, boss," cried Joe.  "She turned giddy as she was walkin' past, an' yer tried to
pull 'er round with a drop of brandy."

He repeated the words like a boy reciting a lesson, feeling anxiously with his thumb as he
spoke, wondering if the coin Jonah had pushed into his hand was a florin or a half-dollar.

Cassidy and Joe, one on each side, helped Ada into the cab.  Her feet scraped helplessly over
the flagged pavement her head lolled on her shoulder, and the baleful white gleam of the huge
electric lamps fell like limelight on her face contracted in an atrocious leer.

The "Silver Shoe" was closed and in darkness, and Jonah drew a breath of relief.  The neighbours
were at their tea, and he could get his shameful burden in unseen.  Prendergast, the cabman,
helped him to drag Ada across the shop to the foot of the stairs, where with an oath he threw
her across his shoulder, and ran up the winding staircase as if he were carrying a bag of chaff.

Suddenly the door on the landing opened, throwing a flood of light on their faces, and Jonah
was astonished to see Miss Grimes, trim and neat, looking in alarm from him to the cabman and
his burden.  As Prendergast dropped Ada on the couch, she took a step forward.

"What has happened?  Is she hurt?" she asked, bending over Ada; but the next moment she turned
away.

This unconscious movement of disgust maddened Jonah.  What was she doing there to see his humiliation?

"No, she's not hurt," said Jonah dryly.  "But wot are you doing 'ere?" he added.

His tone nettled the young woman, and she coloured.

