AYALA Y HERRERA, ADELARDO LOPEZ DE (1828-1879), Spanish writer and politician, was born at
Guadalcanal on the 1st of May 1828, and at a very early age began writing for the theatre of
his native town. The titles of these juvenile performances, which were played by amateurs,
were Salga por donde saliere, Me voy á Sevilla and La Corona y el Puñal. As travelling companies
never visited Guadalcanal, and as ladies took no part in the representations, these three plays
were written for men only. Ayala persuaded his sister to appear as the heroine of his comedy,
La primera Dama, and the innovation, if it scandalized some of his townsmen, permitted him
to develop his talent more freely. In his twentieth year he matriculated at the university
of Seville, but his career as a student was undistinguished. In Seville he made acquaintance
with Garcia Gutierrez, who is reported to have encouraged his dramatic ambitions and to have
given him the benefit of his own experience as a playwright. Early in 1850 Ayala removed his
name from the university books, and settled in Madrid with the purpose of becoming a professional
dramatist. Though he had no friends and no influence, he speedily found an opening. A four-act
play in verse, Un Hombre de Estado, was accepted by the managers of the Teatro Español, was
given on the 25th of January 1851, and proved a remarkable success. Henceforward Ayala's position
and popularity were secure. Within a twelvemonth he became more widely known by his Castigo
y Perdón, and by a more humorous effort, Los dos Guzmanes; and shortly afterwards he was appointed
by the Moderado government to a post in the home office, which he lost in 1854 on the accession
to power of the Liberal party. In 1854 he produced Rioja, perhaps the most admired and the
most admirable of all his works, and from 1854 to 1856 he took an active part in the political
campaign carried on in the journal El Padre Cobos. A zarzuela, entitled Guerta a muerte, for
which Emilio Arrieta composed the music, belongs to 1855, and to the same collaboration is
due El Agente de Matrimonios. At about this date Ayala passed over from the Moderates to the
Progressives, and this political manoeuvre had its effect upon the fate of his plays. The performances
of Los Comuneros were attended by members of the different parties; the utterances of the different
characters were taken to represent the author's personal opinions, and every speech which could
be brought into connexion with current politics was applauded by one half of the house and
derided by the other half. A zarzuela, named El Conde de Castralla, was given amid much uproar
on the 20th of February 1856, and, as the piece seemed likely to cause serious disorder in
the theatre, it was suppressed by the government after the third performance. Ayala's rupture
with the Moderates was now complete, and in 1857, through the interest of O'Donnell, he was
elected as Liberal deputy for Badajoz. His political changes are difficult to follow, or to
explain, and they have been unsparingly censured. So far as can be judged, Ayala had no strong
political views, and drifted with the current of the moment. He took part in the revolution
of 1868, wrote the "Manifesto of Cadiz," took office as colonial minister, favoured the candidature
of the duc de Montpensier, resigned in 1871, returned to his early Conservative principles,
and was a member of Alfonso XII.'s first cabinet. Meanwhile, however divided in opinion as
to his political conduct, his countrymen were practically unanimous in admiring his dramatic
work; and his reputation, if it gained little by El Nuevo Don Juan, was greatly increased by
El Tanto por Ciento and El Tejado de Vidrio. His last play, Consuelo, was given on the 30th
of March 1878. Ayala was nominated to the post of president of congress shortly before his
death, which occurred unexpectedly on the 30th of January 1879. The best of his lyrical work,
excellent for finish and intense sincerity, is his Epístola to Emilio Arrieta, and had he chosen
to dedicate himself to lyric poetry, he might possibly have ranked with the best of Spain's
modern singers; as it is, he is a very considerable poet who affects the dramatic form. In
his later writings he deals with modern society, its vices, ideals and perils; yet in many
essentials he is a manifest disciple of Calderon. He has the familiar Calderonian limitations;
the substitution of types for characters, of eloquence for vital dialogue. Nor can he equal
the sublime lyrism of his model; but he is little inferior in poetic conception, in dignified
idealization, and in picturesque imagery. And it may be fairly claimed for him that in El Tejado
de Vidrio and El Tanto par Ciento he displays a very exceptional combination of satiric intention
with romantic inspiration. By these plays and by Rioja and Consuelo he is entitled to be judged.
They will at least ensure for him an honourable place in the history of the modern Spanish theatre.

A complete edition of his dramatic works, edited by his friend and rival Tamayo y Baus, has
been published in seven volumes (Madrid, 1881-1885).

(J. F.-K.)

AYE-AYE, a word of uncertain signification (perhaps only an exclamation), but universally accepted
as the designation of the most remarkable and aberrant of all the Malagasy lemurs (see PRIMATES).
The aye-aye, Chiromys (or Daubentonia) madagascariensis, is an animal with a superficial resemblance
to a long-haired and dusky-coloured cat with unusually large eyes. It has a broad rounded head,
short face, large naked eyes, large hands, and long thin fingers with pointed claws, of which
the [v.03 p.0072] third is remarkable for its extreme slenderness. The foot resembles that
of the other lemurs in its large opposable great toe with a flat nail; but all the other toes
have pointed compressed claws. Tail long and bushy. General colour dark brown, the outer fur
being long and rather loose, with a woolly under-coat. Teats two, inguinal in position. The
aye-aye was discovered by Pierre Sonnerat in 1780, the specimen brought to Paris by that traveller
being the only one known until 1860. Since then many others have been obtained, and one lived
for several years in the gardens of the Zoological Society of London. Like so many lemurs,
it is completely nocturnal in its habits, living either alone or in pairs, chiefly in the bamboo
forests. Observations upon captive specimens have led to the conclusion that it feeds principally
on juices, especially of the sugar-cane, which it obtains by tearing open the hard woody circumference
of the stalk with its strong incisor teeth; but it is said also to devour certain species of
wood-boring caterpillars, which it obtains by first cutting down with its teeth upon their
burrows, and then picking them out of their retreat with the claw of its attenuated middle
finger. It constructs large ball-like nests of dried leaves, lodged in a fork of the branches
of a large tree, and with the opening on one side.

Till recently the aye-aye was regarded as representing a family by itself--the Chiromyidae;
but the discovery that it resembles the other lemurs of Madagascar in the structure of the
inner ear, and thus differs from all other members of the group, has led to the conclusion
that it is best classed as a subfamily (Chiromyinae) of the Lemuridae. It has connexion by
a branch with the Grand Junction canal. It lies on a slight eminence in a fertile tract called
the Vale of Aylesbury, which extends northward from the foot of the Chiltern Hills. Its streets
are mostly narrow and irregular, but picturesque. The church of St Mary, a large cruciform
building, is primarily Early English, but has numerous additions of later dates. The font is
transitional Norman, a good example; and a small pre-Norman crypt remains beneath part of the
church. There are some Decorated canopied tombs, and the chancel stalls are of the 15th century.
The central tower is surmounted by an ornate clock-turret dating from the second half of the
17th century. The county-hall and town-hall, overlooking a broad market-place, are the principal
public buildings. The grammar school was founded in 1611. Aylesbury is the assize town for
the county, though Buckingham is the county town. There is a large agricultural trade, the
locality being especially noted for the rearing of ducks; straw-plaiting and the manufacture
of condensed milk are carried on, and there are printing works. The Jacobean mansion of Hartwell
in the neighbourhood of Aylesbury was the residence of the French king Louis XVIII. during
his exile (1810-1814).

Aylesbury (Æylesburge, Eilesberia, Aillesbir) was famous in Saxon times as the supposed burial-place
of St Osith. In A.D. 571 it was one of the towns captured by Cuthwulf, brother of Ceawlin,
king of the Saxons. At the time of the Domesday survey the king owned the manor. In 1554, by
a charter from Queen Mary, bestowed as a reward for fidelity during the rebellion of the duke
of Northumberland, Aylesbury was constituted a free borough corporate, with a common council
consisting of a bailiff, 10 aldermen and 12 chief burgesses. The borough returned two members
to parliament from this date until the Redistribution Act of 1885, but the other privileges
appear to have lapsed in the reign of Elizabeth. Aylesbury evidently had a considerable market
from very early times, the tolls being assessed at the time of Edward the Confessor at £25
and at the time of the Domesday survey at £10. In 1239 Henry III. made a grant to John, son
of Geoffrey FitzPeter of an annual fair at the feast of St Osith (June 3rd), which was confirmed
by Henry VI. in 1440. Queen Mary's charter instituted a Wednesday market and fairs at the feasts
of the Annunciation and the Invention of the Holy Cross. In 1579 John Pakington obtained a
grant of two annual fairs to be held on the day before Palm Sunday and on the feast of the
Invention of the Holy Cross, and a Monday market for the sale of horses and other animals,
grain and merchandise.

AYLESFORD, HENEAGE FINCH, 1st EARL OF (c. 1640-1719), 2nd son of Heneage Finch, 1st earl of
Nottingham, was educated at Westminster school and at Christ Church, Oxford, where he matriculated
on the 18th of November 1664. In 1673 he became a barrister of the Inner Temple; king's counsel
and bencher in 1677; and in 1679, during the chancellorship of his father, was appointed solicitor-general,
being returned to parliament for Oxford University, and in 1685 for Guildford. In 1682 he represented
the crown in the attack upon the corporation of London, and next year in the prosecution of
Lord Russell, when, according to Burnet, "and in several other trials afterwards, he showed
more of a vicious eloquence in turning matters with some subtlety against the prisoners than
of strict or sincere reasoning."[1] He does not, however, appear to have exceeded the duties
of prosecutor for the crown as they were then understood. In 1684, in the trial of Algernon
Sidney, he argued that the unpublished treatise of the accused was an overt act, and supported
the opinion of Jeffreys that scribere est agere.[2] The same year he was counsel for James
in his successful action against Titus Oates for libel, and in 1685 prosecuted Oates for the
crown for perjury. Finch, however, though a Tory and a crown lawyer, was a staunch churchman,
and on his refusal in 1686 to defend the royal dispensing power he was summarily dismissed
by James, He was the leading counsel in June 1688 for the seven bishops, when he "strangely
exposed and very boldly ran down"[3] the dispensing power, but his mistaken tactics were nearly
the cause of his clients losing their case.[4] He sat again for Oxford University in the convention
parliament, which constituency he represented in all the following assemblies except that of
1698, till his elevation to the peerage. He was, however, no supporter of the House of Orange,
advocated a regency in James's name, and was one of the few who in the House of Commons opposed
the famous vote that James had broken the contract between king and people and left the throne
vacant. He held no office during William's reign, and is described by Macky as "always a great
opposer" of the administration. In 1689 he joined in voting for the reversal of Lord Russell's
attainder, and endeavoured to defend his conduct in the trial, but was refused a hearing by
the House. He opposed the Triennial Bill of 1692, but in 1696 spoke against the bill of association
and test, which was voted for the king's protection, on the ground that though William was
to be obeyed as sovereign he could not be acknowledged "rightful and lawful king." In 1694
he argued against the crown in the bankers' case. In 1703 he was created baron of Guernsey
and a privy councillor, and after the accession of George I. on the 19th of October 1714, earl
of Aylesford, being reappointed a privy councillor and made chancellor of the duchy of Lancaster,
which office he retained till February 1716. He died on the 22nd of July 1719. According to
John Macky (Memoirs, p. 71; published by Roxburghe Club, 1895) he was accounted "one of the
greatest orators in England and a good common lawyer; a firm asserter of the prerogative of
the crown and jurisdiction of the church; a tall, thin, black man, splenatick." He married
Elizabeth, daughter and co-heiress of Sir John Banks of Aylesford, by whom, besides six daughters,
he had three sons, of whom the eldest, Heneage, succeeded him as 2nd earl of Aylesford. The
2nd earl died in 1757, and since this date the earldom has been held by his direct descendants,
six of whom in succession have borne the Christian name of Heneage.

Many of his legal arguments are printed in State Trials (see esp. viii. 694, 1087, ix. 625,
880, 996, x. 126, 319, 405, 1199, xii. 183, 353, 365). Wood attributes to him on the faith
of common rumour the authorship of An Antidote against Poison ... Remarks upon a Paper printed
by Lady (Rachel) Russel (1683), ascribed in State Trials (ix. 710) to Sir Bartholomew Shower;
but see the latter's allusion to it on p. 753.

[1] Hist. of His Own Times, i. 556. Swift has appended a note, "an arrant rascal," but Finch's
great offence with the dean was probably his advancement by George I. rather than his conduct
of state trials as here described.

[2] Ibid. 572, and Speaker Onslow's note.

[3] N. Luttrell's Relation, i. 447.

[4] State Trials, xii. 353.

[v.03 p.0073] AYLESFORD, a town in the Medway parliamentary division of Kent, England, 3½ m.
N.W. of Maidstone on the South-Eastern & Chatham railway. Pop. (1901) 2678. It stands at the
base of a hill on the right bank of the Medway. The ancient church of St. Peter (restored in
1878) is principally Perpendicular, but contains some Norman and Decorated portions. It has
interesting brasses of the 15th and 16th centuries and an early embattled tower. At a short
distance west, a residence occupying part of the site, are remains of a Carmelite friary, founded
here in 1240. It is claimed for this foundation (but not with certainty) that it was the first
house of Carmelites established in England, and the first general chapter of the order was
held here in 1245. Several remains of antiquity exist in the neighbourhood, among them a cromlech
called Kit's Coty House, about a mile north-east from the village. (See STONE MONUMENTS, Plate,
fig. 2.) In accordance with tradition this has been thought to mark the burial-place of Catigern,
who was slain here in a battle between the Britons and Saxons in A.D. 455; the name has also
been derived from Celtic Ked-coit, that is, the tomb in the wood. The name of the larger group
of monuments close by, called the Countless Stones, is due to the popular belief, which occurs
elsewhere, that they are not to be counted. Large numbers of British coins have been found
in the neighbourhood. The supposed tomb of Horsa, who fell in the same battle, is situated
at Horsted, about 2 m. to the north.

AYLLON, LUCAS VASQUEZ DE (c. 1475-1526), Spanish adventurer and colonizer in America, was born
probably in Toledo, Spain, about 1475. He accompanied Nicolas Ovando to Hispaniola (Santo Domingo)
in 1502, and there became a magistrate of La Concepcion and other towns, and a member of the
superior court of Hispaniola. He engaged with great profit in various commercial enterprises,
became interested in a plan for the extension of the Spanish settlements to the North American
mainland, and in 1521 sent Francisco Gordillo on an exploring expedition which touched on the
coast of the Florida peninsula and coasted for some distance northward. Gordillo's report of
the region was so favourable that Ayllon in 1523 obtained from Charles V. a rather indefinite
charter giving him the right to plant colonies. He sent another reconnoitring expedition in
1525, and early in 1526 he himself set out with 500 colonists and about 100 African slaves.
He touched at several places along the coast, at one time stopping long enough to replace a
wrecked ship with a new one, this being considered the first instance of shipbuilding on the
North American continent. Sailing northward to about latitude 33° 40', he began the construction
of a town which he called San Miguel. The exact location of this town is in dispute, some writers
holding that it was on the exact spot upon which Jamestown, Va., was later built; more probably,
however, as Lowery contends, it was near the mouth of the Pedee river. The employment of negro
slaves here was undoubtedly the first instance of the sort in what later became the United
States. The spot was unhealthy and fever carried off many of the colonists, including Ayllon
himself, who died on the 18th of October 1526. After the death of their leader dissensions
broke out among the colonists, some of the slaves rebelled and escaped into the forest, and
in December the town was abandoned and the remnant of the colonists embarked for Hispaniola,
less than 150 arriving in safety.

See Woodbury Lowery, Spanish Settlements within the Present Limits of the United States (2
vols., New York, 1903-1905).

AYLMER, JOHN (1521-1594), English divine, was born in the year 1521 at Aylmer Hall, Tivetshall
St Mary, Norfolk. While still a boy, his precocity was noticed by Henry Grey, marquis of Dorset,
afterwards duke of Suffolk, who sent him to Cambridge, where he seems to have become a fellow
of Queens' College. About 1541 he was made chaplain to the duke, and tutor to his daughter,
Lady Jane Grey. His first preferment was to the archdeaconry of Stow, in the diocese of Lincoln,
but his opposition in convocation to the doctrine of transubstantiation led to his deprivation
and to his flight into Switzerland. While there he wrote a reply to John Knox's famous Blast
against the Monstrous Regiment of Women, under the title of An Harborowe for Faithfull and
Trewe Subjects, &c., and assisted John Foxe in translating the Acts of the Martyrs into Latin.
On the accession of Elizabeth he returned to England. In 1559 he resumed the Stow archdeaconry,
and in 1562 he obtained that of Lincoln. He was a member of the famous convocation of 1562,
which reformed and settled the doctrine and discipline of the Church of England. In 1576 he
was consecrated bishop of London, and while in that position made himself notorious by his
harsh treatment of all who differed from him on ecclesiastical questions, whether Puritan or
Papist. Various efforts were made to remove him to another see. He is frequently assailed in
the famous Marprelate Tracts, and is characterized as "Morrell," the bad shepherd, in Spenser's
Shepheard's Calendar (July). His reputation as a scholar hardly balances his inadequacy as
a bishop in the transition time in which he lived. He died in June 1594. His Life was written
by John Strype (1701).

AYMARA (anc. Colla), a tribe of South American Indians, formerly inhabiting the country around
Lake Titicaca and the neighbouring valleys of the Andes. They form now the chief ethnical element
in Bolivia, but are of very mixed blood. In early days the home of the Aymaras by Lake Titicaca
was a "holy land" for the Incas themselves, whose national legends attributed the origin of
all Quichua (Inca) civilization to that region. The Aymaras, indeed, seem to have possessed
a very considerable culture before their conquest by the Incas in the 13th and 14th centuries,
evidence of which remains in the megalithic ruins of Tiahuanaco. When the Spaniards arrived
the Aymaras had been long under the Inca domination, and were in a decadent state. They, however,
retained certain privileges, such as the use of their own language; and their treatment by
their conquerors generally suggested that the latter believed themselves of Aymara blood. Physically,
the pure Aymara is short and thick-set, with a great chest development, and with the same reddish
complexion, broad face, black eyes and rounded forehead which distinguish the Quichuas. Like
the latter, too, the Aymaras are sullen and apathetic in disposition. They number now, including
half-breeds, about half a million in Bolivia. Some few are also found in southern Peru.

See Journal Ethnol. Society (1870), "The Aymara Indians of Bolivia and Peru."

AYMER, or ÆTHELMAR, OF VALENCE (d. 1260), bishop of Winchester, was a half-brother of Henry
III. His mother was Isabelle of Angoulême, the second wife of King John, his father was Hugo
of Lusignan, the count of La Marche, whom Isabelle married in 1220. The children of this marriage
came to England in 1247 in the hope of obtaining court preferment. In 1250 the king, by putting
strong pressure upon the electors, succeeded in obtaining the see of Winchester for Aymer.
The appointment was in every way unsuitable. Aymer was illiterate, ignorant of the English
language, and wholly secular in his mode of life. Upon his head was concentrated the whole
of the popular indignation against the foreign favourites; and he seems to have deserved this
unenviable distinction. At the parliament of Oxford (1258) he and his brothers repudiated the
new constitution prepared by the barons. He was pursued to Winchester, besieged in Wolvesey
castle, and finally compelled to surrender and leave the kingdom. He had never been consecrated;
accordingly in 1259 the chapter of Winchester proceeded to a new election. Aymer, however,
gained the support of the pope; he was on his way back to England when he was overtaken by
a fatal illness at Paris.

See W. Stubbs' Constitutional History, vol. ii. (1896); G. W. Prothero's Simon de Montfort
(1877); W. H. Blaauw's Barons' War (1871).

AYMESTRY LIMESTONE, an inconstant limestone which occurs locally in the Ludlow series of Silurian
rocks, between the Upper and Lower Ludlow shales. It derives its name from Aymestry in Herefordshire,
where it may be seen on both sides of the river Lugg. It is well developed in the neighbourhood
of Ludlow (it is sometimes called the Ludlow limestone) and occupies a similar position in
the Ludlow shales at Woolhope, [v.03 p.0074] the Abberley Hills, May Hill and the Malvern Hills.
In lithological character it varies greatly; in one place it is a dark grey, somewhat crystalline
limestone, elsewhere it passes into a flaggy, earthy or shaly condition, or even into a mere
layer of nodules. When well developed it may reach 50 ft. in thickness in beds of from 1 to
5 ft.; in this condition it naturally forms a conspicuous feature in the landscape because
it stands out by its superior hardness from the soft shales above and below.

The most common fossil is Pentamerus Knightii, which is extremely abundant in places. Other
brachiopods, corals and trilobites are present, and are similar to those found in the Wenlock
limestone. (See SILURIAN.)

AYR, a royal, municipal and police burgh and seaport, and county town of Ayrshire, Scotland,
at the mouth of the river Ayr, 41½ m. S.S.W. of Glasgow by the Glasgow & South-Western railway.
Pop. (1891) 24,944; (1901) 29,101. It is situated on a fine bay and its beautiful sands attract
thousands of summer visitors. Ayr proper lies on the south bank of the river, which is crossed
by three bridges, besides the railway viaduct--the Victoria Bridge (erected in 1898) and the
famous "Twa Brigs" of Burns. The Auld Brig is said to date from the reign of Alexander III.
(d. 1286). The New Brig was built in 1788, mainly owing to the efforts of Provost Ballantyne.
The prophecy which Burns put into the mouth of the venerable structure came true in 1877, when
the newer bridge yielded to floods and had to be rebuilt (1879); and the older structure itself
was closed for public safety in 1904. The town has extended greatly on the southern side of
the stream, where, in the direction of the racecourse, there are now numerous fine villas.
The county buildings, designed after the temple of Isis in Rome, accommodate the circuit and
provincial courts and various local authorities. The handsome town buildings, surmounted by
a fine spire 226 ft. high, contain assembly and reading rooms. Of the schools the most notable
is the Academy (rebuilt in 1880), which in 1764 superseded the grammar school of the burgh,
which existed in the 13th century. The Gothic Wallace Tower in High Street stands on the site
of an old building of the same name taken down in 1835, from which were transferred the clock
and bells of the Dungeon steeple. A niche in front is filled by a statue of the Scottish hero
by James Thorn (1802-1850), a self-taught sculptor. There are statues of Burns, the 13th earl
of Eglinton, General Smith Neill and Sir William Wallace. The Carnegie free library was established
in 1893. The charitable institutions include the county hospital, district asylum, a deaf and
dumb home, the Kyle combination poor-house, St John's refuge and industrial schools for boys
and girls. The Ayr Advertiser first appeared on 5th of August 1803, and was the earliest newspaper
published in Ayrshire. In the suburbs is a racecourse where the Western Meeting is held in
September of every year. The principal manufactures include leather, carpets, woollen goods,
flannels, blankets, lace, boots and shoes; and fisheries and shipbuilding are also carried
on. There are several foundries, engineering establishments and saw mills. Large quantities
of timber are imported from Canada and Norway; coal, iron, manufactured goods and agricultural
produce are the chief exports. The harbour, with wet and slip dock, occupies both sides of
the river from the New Bridge to the sea, and is protected on the south by a pier projecting
some distance into the sea, and on the north by a breakwater with a commodious dry dock. There
are esplanades to the south and north of the harbour. The town is governed by a provost and
council, and unites with Irvine, Inveraray, Campbeltown and Oban in returning one member to
parliament.

In 1873 the municipal boundary was extended northwards beyond the river so as to include Newton-upon-Ayr
and Wallace Town, formerly separate. Newton is a burgh or barony of very ancient creation,
the charter of which is traditionally said to have been granted by Robert Bruce in favour of
forty-eight of the inhabitants who had distinguished themselves at Bannockburn. The suburb
is now almost wholly occupied with manufactures, the chief of which are chemicals, boots and
shoes, carpets and lace. It is on the Glasgow & South-Western railway, and has a harbour and
dock from which coal and goods are the main exports. About 3 m. north of Ayr is Prestwick,
a popular watering-place and the headquarters of one of the most flourishing golf clubs in
Scotland. The outstanding attraction of Ayr, however, is the pleasant suburb of Alloway, 2½
m. to the south, with which there is frequent communication by electric cars. The "auld clay
biggin" in which Robert Burns was born on the 25th of January 1759, has been completely repaired
and is now the property of the Ayr Burns's Monument trustees. In the kitchen is the box bed
in which the poet was born, and many of the articles of furniture belonged to his family. Adjoining
the cottage is a museum of Burnsiana. The "auld haunted kirk," though roofless, is otherwise
in a fair state of preservation, despite relic-hunters who have removed all the woodwork. In
the churchyard is the grave of William Burness, the poet's father. Not far distant, on a conspicuous
position close by the banks of the Doon, stands the Grecian monument to Burns, in the grounds
of which is the grotto containing Thorn's figures of Tam o' Shanter and Souter Johnnie.

Nothing is known of the history of Ayr till the close of the 12th century, when it was made
a royal residence, and soon afterwards a royal burgh, by William the Lion. During the wars
of Scottish independence the possession of Ayr and its castle was an object of importance to
both the contending parties, and the town was the scene of many of Wallace's exploits. In 1315
the Scottish parliament met in the church of St John to confirm the succession of Edward Bruce
to the throne. Early in the 16th century it was a place of considerable influence and trade.
The liberality of William the Lion had bestowed upon the corporation an extensive grant of
lands; while in addition to the well-endowed church of St John, it had two monasteries, each
possessed of a fair revenue. When Scotland was overrun by Cromwell, Ayr was selected as the
site of one of the forts which he built to command the country. This fortification, termed
the citadel, enclosed an area of ten or twelve acres, and included within its limits the church
of St John, which was converted into a storehouse, the Protector partly indemnifying the inhabitants
by contributing £150 towards the erection of a new place of worship, now known as the Old Church.
A portion of the tower of St John's church remains, but has been completely modernized. The
site of the fort is now nearly covered with houses, the barracks being in Fort Green.

AYRER, JAKOB (?-1605), German dramatist, of whose life little is known. He seems to have come
to Nuremberg as a boy and worked his way up to the position of imperial notary. He died at
Nuremberg on the 26th of March 1605. Besides a rhymed Chronik der Stadt Bamberg (edited by
J. Heller, Bamberg, 1838), and an unpublished translation of the Psalms, Ayrer has left a large
number of dramas which were printed at Nuremberg under the title Opus Theatricum in 1618. This
collection contains thirty tragedies and comedies and thirty-six Fastnachtsspiele (Shrovetide
plays) and Singspiele. As a dramatist, Ayrer is virtually the successor of Hans Sachs (q.v.),
but he came under the influence of the so-called Englische Komödianten, that is, troupes of
English actors, who, at the close of the 16th century and during the 17th, repeatedly visited
the continent, bringing with them the repertory of the Elizabethan theatre. From those actors
Ayrer learned how to enliven his dramas with sensational incidents and spectacular effects,
and from them he borrowed the character of the clown. His plays, however, are in spite of his
foreign models, hardly more dramatic, in the true sense of the word, than those of Hans Sachs,
and they are inferior to the latter in poetic qualities. The plots of two of his comedies,
Von der schönen Phoenicia and Von der schönen Sidea, were evidently drawn from the same sources
as those of Shakespeare's Much Ado about Nothing and Tempest.

Ayrers Dramen, edited by A. von Keller, have been published by the Stuttgart Lit. Verein (1864-1865).
See also L. Tieck, Deutsches Theater (1817); A. Cohn, Shakespeare in Germany (1885), which
contains a translation of the two plays mentioned above; J. Tittmann, Schauspiele des sechzehnten
Jahrhunderts (1888).

AYRSHIRE, a south-western county of Scotland, bounded N. by Renfrewshire, E. by Lanarkshire
and Dumfriesshire, S.E. by [v.03 p.0075] Kirkcudbrightshire, S. by Wigtownshire and W. by the
Firth of Clyde. It includes off its coast the conspicuous rock of Ailsa Craig, 10 m. W. of
Girvan, Lady Island, 3 m. S.W. of Troon, and Horse Island, off Ardrossan. Its area is 724,523
acres or 1142 sq. m., its coast-line being 70 m. long. In former times the shire was divided
into the districts of Cunninghame (N. of the Irvine), Kyle (between the Irvine and the Boon),
and Carrick (S. of the Doon), and these terms are still occasionally used. Kyle was further
divided by the Ayr into King's Kyle on the north and Kyle Stewart. Robert Bruce was earl of
Carrick, a title now borne by the prince of Wales. The county is politically divided into North
and South Ayrshire, the former comprising Cunninghame and the latter Kyle and Carrick. The
surface is generally undulating with a small mountainous tract in the north and a larger one
in the south and south-east. The principal hills are Black Craig (2298 ft.), 5 m. south-east
of New Cumnock; Enoch (1865 ft.), 5 m. east of Dalmellington; Polmaddie (1750 ft.) 2 m. south-east
of Barr; Stake on the confines of Ayrshire and Renfrewshire, and Corsancone (1547 ft.), 3 m.
north-east of New Cumnock. None of the rivers is navigable, but their varied and tranquil beauty
has made them better known than many more important streams. The six most noted are the Stinchar
(c soft), Girvan, Doon, Ayr, Irvine and Garnock. Of these the Ayr is the longest. It rises
at Glenbuck, on the border of Lanarkshire, and after a course of some 38 m. falls into the
Firth of Clyde at the county town which, with the county, is named from it. The scenery along
its banks from Sorn downwards--passing Catrine, Ballochmyle, Barskimming, Sundrum, Auchencruive
and Craigie--is remarkably picturesque. The lesser streams are numerous, but Burns's verse
has given preeminence to the Afton, the Cessnock and the Lugar. There are many lochs, the largest
of which is Loch Doon, 5½ m. long, the source of the river of the same name. From Loch Finlas,
about 20 m. south-east of Ayr, the town derives its water-supply. The Nith rises in Ayrshire
and a few miles of its early course belong to the county.

Geology.--The greater portion of the hilly region in the south of the county forms part of
the Silurian tableland of the south of Scotland. Along its north margin there is a belt of
elevated ground consisting mainly of Old Red Sandstone strata, while the tract of fertile low
ground is chiefly occupied by younger Palaeozoic rocks. The Silurian belt stretching eastwards
from the mouth of Loch Ryan to the Merrick range is composed of grits, greywackes and shales
with thin leaves of black shales, containing graptolites of Upper Llandeilo age which are repeated
by folding and cover a broad area. Near their northern limit Radiolarian cherts, mudstones
and lavas of Arenig age rise from underneath the former along anticlines striking north-east
and south-west. In the Ballantrae region there is a remarkable development of volcanic rocks--lavas,
tuffs and agglomerates--of Arenig age, their horizon being defined by graptolites occurring
in cherty mudstones and black shales interleaved in lavas and agglomerates. These volcanic
materials are pierced by serpentine, gabbro and granite. The serpentine forms two belts running
inland from near Bennane Head and from Burnfoot, being typically developed on Balhamie Hill
near Colmonell. Gabbro appears on the shore north of Lendalfoot, while on the Byne and Grey
Hills south of Girvan there are patches of granite and quartz-diorite which seem to pass into
more basic varieties. These volcanic and plutonic rocks and Radiolarian cherts are covered
unconformably by conglomerates (Bennan Hill near Straiton and Kennedy's Pass) which are associated
with limestones of Upper Llandeilo age that have been wrought in the Stinchar valley and at
Craighead. South of the river Girvan there is a sequence from Llandeilo--Caradoc to Llandovery--Tarannon
strata, excellent sections of which are seen on the shore north of Kennedy's Pass and in Penwhapple
Glen near Girvan. Llandovery strata again appear north of the Girvan at Dailly, where they
form an inlier surrounded by the Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous formations. Representatives
of Wenlock rocks form a narrow belt near the village of Straiton. Some of the Silurian sediments
of the Girvan province are highly fossiliferous, but the order of succession is determined
by the graptolites. Near Muirkirk and in the Douglas Water there are inliers of Wenlock, Ludlow
and Downtonian rocks, coming to the surface along anticlines truncated by faults and surrounded
by Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous strata. In the south-east of the county there is a part
of the large granite mass that stretches from Loch Doon south to Loch Dee, giving rise to wild
scenery and bounded by the high ground near the head of the Girvan Water, boulders of which
have been distributed over a wide area during the glacial period. Along the northern margin
of the uplands the Lower Old Red Sandstone is usually faulted against the Silurian strata,
but on Hadyard Hill south of the Girvan valley they rest on the folded and denuded members
of the latter system. The three divisions of this formation are well represented. The lower
group of conglomerates and sandstones are well displayed on Hadyard Hill and on the tract near
Maybole; the middle volcanic series on the shore south of the Heads of Ayr and from the Stinchar
valley along the Old Red belt towards Dalmellington and New Cumnock; while the upper group,
comprising conglomerates and sandstones, form a well-marked synclinal ford at Corsancone north-east
of New Cumnock. The Upper Old Red Sandstone appears as a fringe round the south-west margin
of the Carboniferous rocks of the county, and it rises from beneath them on the shore of the
Firth of Clyde south of Wemyss Bay. The Carboniferous strata of the central low ground form
a great basin traversed by faults, all the subdivisions of the system being represented save
the Millstone Grit. Round the north and north-east margin there is a great development of volcanic
rocks--lavas, tuffs and agglomerates--belonging to the Calciferous Sandstone series, and passing
upwards into the Carboniferous Limestone. The lower limestones of the latter division are typically
represented near Dalry and Beith, where in one instance they reach a thickness of over 100
ft. They are followed by the coal-bearing group (Edge coals of Midlothian) which have been
wrought in the Dalry and Patna districts and at Dailly. The position of the Millstone Grit
is occupied by lavas and tuffs, extending almost continually as a narrow fringe round the northern
margin of the Coal Measures from Saltcoats by Kilmaurs to the Crawfordland Water. The workable
coals of the true Coal Measures have a wide distribution from Kilwinning by Kilmarnock to Galston
and again in the districts of Coylton, Dalmellington, Lugar and Cumnock. These members are
overlaid by a set of upper barren red sandstones, probably the equivalents of the red beds
of Uddingston, Dalkeith and Wemyss in Fife, visible in the ravines of Lugar near Ochiltree
and of Ayr at Catrine. In various parts of the Ayrshire coalfield the coal-seams are rendered
useless by intrusive sheets of dolerite as near Kilmarnock and Dalmellington. In the central
part of the field there is an oval-shaped area of red sandstones now grouped with the Trias,
extending from near Tarbolton to Mauchline, where they are largely worked for building stone.
They are underlaid by a volcanic series which forms a continuous belt between the underlying
red sandstones of the Coal Measures and the overlying Trias. In the north part of the county,
as near Wemyss Bay, the strata are traversed by dykes of dolerite and basalt trending in a
north-west direction and probably of Tertiary age.

Agriculture.--There has been no lack of agricultural enterprise. With a moist climate, and,
generally, a rather heavy soil, drainage was necessary for the successful growth of green crops.
Up to about 1840, a green crop in the rotation was seldom seen, except on porous river-side
land, or on the lighter farms of the lower districts. In the early part of the 19th century
lime was a powerful auxiliary in the inland districts, but with repeated applications it gradually
became of little avail. Thorough draining gave the next great impetus. Enough had been done
to test its efficacy before the announcement of Sir Robert Peel's drainage loan, after which
it was rapidly extended throughout the county. Green-crop husbandry, and the liberal use of
guano and other manures, made a wonderful change in the county, and immensely increased the
amount of produce. Potatoes are now extensively grown, the coast-lands supplying the markets
of Scotland and the north of England. Of roots, turnips, carrots and mangolds are widely cultivated,
heavy crops being obtained by early sowing and rich manuring. Oats form the bulk of the cereal
crop, but wheat and barley are also grown. High farming has developed the land enormously.
Dairying has received particular attention. Dunlop cheese was once a well-known product. Part
of it was very good; but it was unequal in its general character, and unsaleable in English
markets. Dissatisfied with the inferior commercial value of their cheese in comparison with
some English varieties, the Ayrshire Agricultural Association brought a Somerset farmer and
his wife in 1855 to teach the Cheddar method, and their effort was most successful. Cheddar
cheese of first-rate quality is now made in Ayrshire, and the annual cheese show at Kilmarnock
is the most important in Scotland. The Ayrshire breed of cows are famous for the quantity and
excellence of their milk. Great numbers of cattle, sheep and pigs are raised for the market,
and the Ayrshire horse is in high repute.

Other Industries.--Ayrshire is the principal mining county in Scotland and has the second largest
coalfield. There is a heavy annual output also of iron ore, pig iron and fire-clay. The chief
coal districts are Ayr, Dalmellington, Patna, Maybole, Drongan, Irvine, Coylton, Stevenston,
Beith, Kilwinning, [v.03 p.0076] Dalry, Kilbirnie, Dreghorn, Kilmarnock, Galston, Hurlford,
Muirkirk, Cumnock and New Cumnock. Ironstone occurs chiefly at Patna, Coylton, Dalry, Kilbirnie,
Dreghorn and Cumnock, and there are blast furnaces at most of these towns. A valuable whetstone
is quarried at Bridge of Stair on the Ayr--the Water-of-Ayr stone. The leading manufactures
are important. At Catrine are cotton factories and bleachfields, and at Ayr and Kilmarnock
extensive engineering works, and carpet, blanket and woollens, boot and shoe factories. Cotton,
woollens, and other fabrics and hosiery are also manufactured at Dalry, Kilbirnie, Kilmaurs,
Beith and Stewarton. An extensive trade in chemicals is carried on at Irvine. Near Stevenston
works have been erected in the sandhills for the making of dynamite and other explosives. There
are large lace curtain factories at Galston, Newmilns and Darvel, and at Beith cabinet-making
is a considerable industry. Shipbuilding is conducted at Troon, Ayr, Irvine and Fairlie, which
is famous for its yachts. The leading ports are Ardrossan, Ayr, Girvan, Irvine and Troon. Fishing
is carried on in the harbours and creeks, which are divided between the fishery districts of
Greenock and Ballantrae.

Communications.--The Glasgow & South-Western railway owns most of the lines within the shire,
its system serving all the industrial towns, ports and seaside resorts. Its trunk line via
Girvan to Stranraer commands the shortest sea passage to Belfast and the north of Ireland,
and its main line via Kilmarnock communicates with Dumfries and Carlisle and so with England.
The Lanarkshire & Ayrshire branch of the Caledonian railway company also serves a part of the
county. For passenger steamer traffic Ardrossan is the principal port, there being services
to Arran and Belfast and, during the season, to Douglas in the Isle of Man. Millport, on Great
Cumbrae, is reached by steamer from Fairlie.

Population and Administration.--The population of Ayrshire in 1891 was 226,386, and in 1901,
254,468, or 223 to the sq. m. In 1901 the number of persons speaking Gaelic only was 17. The
chief towns, with populations in 1901 are: Ardrossan (6077), Auchinleck (2168), Ayr (29,101),
Beith (4963), Cumnock (3088), Dalry (5316), Darvel (3070), Galston (4876), Girvan (4024), Hurlford
(4601), Irvine (9618), Kilbirnie (4571), Kilmarnock (35,091), Kilwinning (4440), Largs (3246),
Maybole (5892), Muirkirk (3892), Newmilns (4467), Saltcoats (8120), Stevenston (6554), Stewarton
(2858), Troon (4764). The county returns two members to parliament, who represent North and
South Ayrshire respectively. Ayr (the county town) and Irvine are royal burghs and belong to
the Ayr group of parliamentary burghs, and Kilmarnock is a parliamentary burgh of the Kilmarnock
group. Under the county council special water districts, drainage districts, and lighting and
scavenging districts have been formed. The county forms a sheriffdom, and there are resident
sheriffs-substitute at Ayr and Kilmarnock, who sit also at Irvine, Beith, Cumnock and Girvan.
The shire is under school-board jurisdiction, but there are a considerable number of voluntary
schools, besides secondary schools at Ayr, Irvine, Kilmarnock and Beith, while Kilmarnock Dairy
School is a part of the West of Scotland Agricultural College established in 1899. In addition
to grants earned by the schools, the county and borough councils expend a good deal of money
upon secondary and technical education, towards which contributions are also made by the Glasgow
and West of Scotland Technical College and the Kilmarnock Dairy School. The technical classes,
subsidized at various local centres, embrace instruction in agriculture, mining, engineering,
plumbing, gardening, and various science and art subjects.

History.--Traces of Roman occupation are found in Ayrshire. At the time of Agricola's campaigns
the country was held by the Damnonii, and their town of Vandogara has been identified with
a site at Loudoun Hill near Darvel, where a serious encounter with the Scots took place. On
the withdrawal of the Romans, Ayrshire formed part of the kingdom of Strathclyde and ultimately
passed under the sway of the Northumbrian kings. Save for occasional intertribal troubles,
as that in which the Scottish king Alpin was slain at Dalmellington in the 9th century, the
annals are silent until the battle of Largs in 1263, when the pretensions of Haakon of Norway
to the sovereignty of the Isles were crushed by the Scots under Alexander III. A generation
later William Wallace conducted a vigorous campaign in the shire. He surprised the English
garrison at Ardrossan, and burned the barns of Ayr in which the forces of Edward I were lodged.
Robert Bruce is alleged to have been born at Turnberry Castle, some 12 m. S.W. of Ayr. In 1307
he defeated the English at Loudoun Hill. Cromwell paid the county a hurried visit, during which
he demolished the castle of Ardrossan and is said to have utilized the stones in rearing a
fort at Ayr. Between 1660 and 1688 the sympathies of the county were almost wholly with the
Covenanters, who suffered one of their heaviest reverses at Airds Moss--a morass between the
Ayr and Lugar,--their leader, Richard Cameron, being killed (20th of July 1680). The county
was dragooned and the Highland host ravaged wherever it went. The Hanoverian succession excited
no active hostility if it evoked no enthusiasm. Antiquarian remains include cairns in Galston,
Sorn and other localities; a road supposed to be a work of the Romans, which extended from
Ayr, through Dalrymple and Dalmellington, towards the Solway; camps attributed to the Norwegians
or Danes on the hills of Knockgeorgan and Dundonald; and the castles of Loch Doon, Turnberry,
Dundonald, Portencross, Ardrossan and Dunure. There are ruins of celebrated abbeys at Kilwinning
and Crossraguel, and of Alloway's haunted church, famous from their associations.

See James Paterson, "History of the County of Ayr." Transactions of Ayrshire and Galloway Archaeological
Associations, Edinburgh, 1879-1900; John Smith, Prehistoric Man in Ayrshire (London, 1895);
William Robertson, History of Ayrshire (Edinburgh, 1894); Archibald Sturrock, "On the Agriculture
of Ayrshire," Transactions of Highland and Agricultural Society; D. Landsborough, Contributions
to Local History (Kilmarnock, 1878).

AYRTON, WILLIAM EDWARD (1847-1908), English physicist, was born in London on the 14th of September
1847. He was educated at University College, London, and in 1868 went out to Bengal in the
service of the Indian Government Telegraph department. In 1873 he was appointed professor of
physics and telegraphy at the Imperial College of Engineering, Tokio. On his return to London
six years later he became professor of applied physics at the Finsbury College of the City
and Guilds of London Technical Institute, and in 1884 he was chosen professor of electrical
engineering at the Central Technical College, South Kensington. He published, both alone and
jointly with others, a large number of papers on physical, and in particular electrical, subjects,
and his name was especially associated, together with that of Professor John Perry, with the
invention of a long series of electrical measuring instruments. He died in London on the 8th
of November 1908. His wife, Mrs Hertha Ayrton, whom he married in 1885, assisted him in his
researches, and became known for her scientific work on the electric arc and other subjects.
The Royal Society awarded her one of its Royal medals in 1906.

AYSCOUGH, SAMUEL (1745-1804), English librarian and index-maker, was born at Nottingham in
1745. His father, a printer and stationer, having ruined himself by speculation, Samuel Ayscough
left Nottingham for London, where he obtained an engagement in the cataloguing department of
the British Museum. In 1782 he published a two-volume catalogue of the then undescribed manuscripts
in the museum. About 1785 he was appointed assistant librarian at the museum, and soon afterwards
took holy orders. In 1786 he published an index to the first seventy volumes of the Monthly
Review, and in 1796 indexed the remaining volumes. Both this index and his catalogue of the
undescribed manuscripts in the museum were private ventures. His first official work was a
third share in the British Museum catalogue of 1787, and he subsequently catalogued the ancient
rolls and charters, 16,000 in all. In 1789 he produced the first two volumes of the index to
the Gentleman's Magazine, and in 1790 the first index-concordance to Shakespeare. He was a
Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries, and has been called [v.03 p.0077] "The Prince of Indexers."
He died at the British Museum on the 30th of October 1804.

AYSCUE (erroneously ASKEW or AYSCOUGH), SIR GEORGE (d. 1671), British admiral, came of an old
Lincolnshire family. Beyond the fact that he was knighted by Charles I., nothing is known of
his career until in 1646 he received a naval command. Through the latter years of the first
civil war, Ayscue seems to have acted as one of the senior officers of the fleet. In 1648,
when Sir William Batten went over to Holland with a portion of his squadron, Ayscue's influence
kept a large part of the fleet loyal to the Parliament, and in reward for this service he was
appointed the following year admiral of the Irish Seas. For his conduct at the relief of Dublin
he received the thanks of Parliament, and in 1651 he was employed under Blake in the operations
for the reduction of Scilly. He was next sent to the West Indies in charge of a squadron destined
for the Conquest of Barbadoes and the other islands still under royalist control. This task
successfully accomplished, he returned to take part in the first Dutch War. In this he played
a prominent part, but the indecisive battle off Plymouth (August 16th, 1652) cost him his command,
though an annuity was assigned him. For some years Sir George Ayscue lived in retirement, but
the later years of the Commonwealth he spent in Sweden, Cromwell having despatched him thither
as naval adviser. At the Restoration he returned, and became one of the commissioners of the
navy, but on the outbreak of the second Dutch War in 1664 he once more hoisted his flag as
rear-admiral of the Blue, and took part in the battle of Lowestoft (June 3rd, 1665). In the
great Four Days' Battle (June 11th-14th, 1666) he served with Monck as admiral of the White.
His flagship, the "Prince Royal," was taken on the third day, and he himself remained a prisoner
in Holland till the peace. It seems doubtful whether he ever again flew his flag at sea, and
the date of his death is supposed to be 1671. Lely's portrait of Sir George Ayscue is in the
Painted Hall at Greenwich.

AYTOUN, or AYTON, SIR ROBERT (1570-1638), Scottish poet, son of Andrew Aytoun of Kinaldie,
Fifeshire, was born in 1570. He was educated at the university of St Andrews, where he was
incorporated as a student of St Leonard's College in 1584 and graduated M.A. in 1588. He lived
for some years in France, and on the accession of James VI. to the English throne he wrote
in Paris a Latin panegyric, which brought him into immediate favour at court. He was knighted
in 1612. He held various lucrative offices, and was private secretary to the queens of James
I. and Charles I. He died in London and was buried in Westminster Abbey on the 28th of February
1638. His reputation with his contemporaries was high, both personally and as a writer, though
he had no ambition to be known as the latter.

Aytoun's remains are in Latin and English. In respect of the latter he is one of the earliest
Scots to use the southern standard as a literary medium. The Latin poems include the panegyric
already referred to, an Epicedium in obitum Thoma Rhodi; Basia, sive Strena ad Jacobum Hayum;
Lessus in funere Raphaelis Thorei; Carina Caro; and minor pieces, occasional and epitaphic.
His first English poem was Diophantus and Charidora (to which he refers in his Latin panegyric
to James). He has left a number of pieces on amatory subjects, including songs and sonnets.

Aytoun's Latin poems are printed in Delitiae Poetarum Scotorum (Amsterdam, 1637), i. pp. 40-75.
His English poems are preserved in a MS. in the British Museum (Add. MSS. 10,308), which was
prepared by his nephew, Sir John Aytoun. Both were collected by Charles Rogers in The Poems
of Sir Robert Aytoun (London, privately printed, 1871). This edition is unsatisfactory, though
it is better than the first issue by the same editor in 1844. Additional poems are included
which cannot be ascribed to Aytoun, and which in some cases have been identified as the work
of others. The poem "I do confess thou'rt smooth and fair" may be suspected, and the old version
of "Auld Lang Syne" and "Sweet Empress" are certainly not Aytoun's. Some of the English poems
are printed in Watson's Collection (1706-1711) and in the Bannatyne Miscellany, i. p. 299 (1827).
There is a memoir of Aytoun in Rogers's edition, and another by Grosart in the Dict. of Nat.
Biog. Particulars of his public career will be found in the printed Calendars of State Papers
and Register of the Privy Council of the period.

AYTOUN, WILLIAM EDMONSTOUNE (1813-1865), Scottish poet, humorist and miscellaneous writer,
was born at Edinburgh on the 21st of June 1813. He was the only son of Roger Aytoun, a writer
to the signet, and the family was of the same stock as Sir Robert Aytoun noticed above. From
his mother, a woman of marked originality of character and considerable culture, he derived
his distinctive qualities, his early tastes in literature, and his political sympathies, his
love for ballad poetry, and his admiration for the Stuarts. At the age of eleven he was sent
to the Edinburgh Academy, passing in due time to the university. In 1833 he spent a few months
in London for the purpose of studying law; but in September of that year he went to study German
at Aschaffenburg, where he remained till April 1834. He then resumed his legal pursuits in
his father's chambers, was admitted a writer to the signet in 1835, and five years later was
called to the Scottish bar. But, by his own confession, though he "followed the law, he never
could overtake it." His first publication--a volume entitled Poland, Homer, and other Poems,
in which he gave expression to his eager interest in the state of Poland--had appeared in 1832.
While in Germany he made a translation in blank verse of the first part of Faust; but, forestalled
by other translations, it was never published. In 1836 he made his earliest contributions to
Blackwood's Magazine, in translations from Uhland; and from 1839 till his death he remained
on the staff of Blackwood. About 1841 he became acquainted with Mr (afterwards Sir) Theodore
Martin, and in association with him wrote a series of light humorous papers on the tastes and
follies of the day, in which were interspersed the verses which afterwards became popular as
the Ban Gaultier Ballads (1855). The work on which his reputation as a poet chiefly rests is
the Lays of the Scottish Cavaliers (1848; 29th ed. 1883). In 1845 he was appointed professor
of rhetoric and belles lettres at Edinburgh University. His lectures were very attractive,
and the number of students increased correspondingly. His services in support of the Tory party,
especially during the Anti-Corn-Law struggle, received official recognition in his appointment
(1852) as sheriff of Orkney and Zetland. In 1854 appeared Firmilian, a Spasmodic Tragedy, in
which he attacked and parodied the writings of Philip James Bailey, Sydney Dobell and Alexander
Smith; and two years later he published his Bothwell, a Poem. Among his other literary works
are a Collection of the Ballads of Scotland (1858), a translation of the Poems and Ballads
of Goethe, executed in co-operation with his friend Theodore Martin (1858), a small volume
on the Life and Times of Richard I. (1840), written for the Family Library, and a novel entitled
Norman Sinclair (1861), many of the details in which are taken from incidents in his own experience.
In 1860 Aytoun was elected honorary president of the Associated Societies of Edinburgh University.
In 1859 he lost his first wife, a daughter of John Wilson (Christopher North), to whom he was
married in 1849, and this was a great blow to him. His mother died in November 1861, and his
own health began to fail. In December 1863 he married Miss Kinnear. He died at Blackhills,
near Elgin, on the 4th of August 1865.

See Memoir of W. E. Aytoun (1867), by Sir Theodore Martin, with an appendix containing some
of his prose essays.

AYUB KHAN (1855- ), Afghan prince, son of Shere Ali (formerly amir of Afghanistan), and cousin
of the amir Abdur Rahman, was born about 1855. During his father's reign little is recorded
of him, but after Shere Ali's expulsion from Kabul by the English, and his death in January
1879, Ayub took possession of Herat, and maintained himself there until June 1881, when he
invaded Afghanistan with the view of asserting his claims to the sovereignty, and in particular
of gaining possession of Kandahar, still in the occupation of the British. He encountered the
British force commanded by General Burrows at Maiwand on the 27th of July, and was able to
gain one of the very few pitched battles that have been won by Asiatic leaders over an army
under European direction. His triumph, however, was short-lived; while he hesitated to assault
Kandahar he was attacked by Sir Frederick (afterwards Lord) Roberts, at the close of the latter's
memorable march from Kabul, and utterly discomfited, [v.03 p.0078] 20th of September 1880.
He made his way back to Herat, where he remained for some time unmolested. In the summer of
1881 he again invaded Afghanistan, and on the anniversary of the battle of Maiwand obtained
a signal victory over Abdur Rahman's lieutenants, mainly through the defection of a Durani
regiment. Kandahar fell into his hands, but Abdur Rahman now took the field in person, totally
defeated Ayub, and expelled him from Herat. He took refuge in Persia, and for some time lived
quietly in receipt of an allowance from the Persian government. In 1887 internal troubles in
Afghanistan tempted him to make another endeavour to seize the throne. Defeated and driven
into exile, he wandered for some time about Persia, and in November gave himself up to the
British agent at Meshed. He was sent to India to live as a state prisoner.

AYUNTAMIENTO, the Spanish name for the district over which a town council has administrative
authority; it is used also for a town council, and for the town-hall. The word is derived from
the Latin adjungere, and originally meant "meeting." In some parts of Spain and in Spanish
America the town council was called the cabildo or chapter, from the Latin capitulum. The ayuntamiento
consisted of the official members, and of regidores or regulators, who were chosen in varying
proportions from the "hidalgos" or nobles (hijos de algo, sons of somebody) and the "pecheros,"
or commoners, who paid the pecho, or personal tax; pecho (Lat. pectus) is in Spanish the breast,
and then by extension the person. The regidores of the ayuntamientos, or lay cabildos, were
checked by the royal judge or corregidor, who was in fact the permanent chairman or president.
The distinction between hidalgo and pechero has been abolished in modern Spain, but the powers
and the constitution of ayuntamientos have been subject to many modifications.

AYUTHIA, a city of Siam, now known to the Siamese as Krung Kao or "the Old Capital," situated
in 100° 32' E., 14° 21' N. Pop. about 10,000. The river Me Nam, broken up into a network of
creeks, here surrounds a large island upon which stand the ruins of the famous city which was
for more than four centuries the capital of Siam. The bulk of the inhabitants live in the floating
houses characteristic of lower Siam, using as thoroughfares the creeks to the edges of which
the houses are moored. The ruins of the old city are of great archaeological interest, as are
the relics, of which a large collection is housed in the local museum. Outside the town is
an ancient masonry enclosure for the capture of elephants, which is still periodically used.
Ayuthia is on the northern main line of the state railways, 42 m. from Bangkok. Great quantities
of paddi are annually sent by river and rail to Bangkok, in return for which cloth and other
goods are imported to supply the wants of the agriculturist peasantry. There is no other trade.
Ayuthia is the chief town of one of the richest agricultural provincial divisions of Siam and
is the headquarters of a high commissioner. The government offices occupy spacious buildings,
once a royal summer retreat; the government is that of an ordinary provincial division (Monton).

Historically Ayuthia is the most interesting spot in Siam. Among the innumerable ruins may
be seen those of palaces, pagodas, churches and fortifications, the departed glories of which
are recorded in the writings of the early European travellers who first brought Siam within
the knowledge of the West, and laid the foundations of the present foreign intercourse and
trade. The town was twice destroyed by the Burmese, once in 1555 and again in 1767, and from
the date of the second destruction it ceased to be the capital of the country.

AZAÏS, PIERRE HYACINTHE (1766-1845), French philosopher, was born at Sorèze and died at Paris.
He spent his early years as a teacher and a village organist. At the outbreak of the Revolution
he viewed it with favour, but was soon disgusted at the violence of its methods. A critical
pamphlet drew upon him the hatred of the revolutionists, and it was not until 1806 that he
was able to settle in Paris. In 1809 he published his great work, Des Compensations dans les
destinées humaines (5th ed. 1846), which pleased Napoleon so much that he made its author professor
at St Cyr. In 1811 he became inspector of the public library at Avignon, and from 1812 to 1815
he held the same position at Nancy. The Restoration government at first suspected him as a
Bonapartist, but at length granted him a pension. From that time he occupied himself in lecturing
and the publication of philosophical works. In the Compensations he sought to prove that, on
the whole, happiness and misery are equally balanced, and therefore that men should accept
the government which is given them rather than risk the horrors of revolution. "Le principe
de l'inégalité naturelle et essentielle dans les destinées humaines conduit inévitablement
au fanatisme révolutionnaire ou au fanatisme religieux." The principles of compensation and
equilibrium are found also in the physical universe, the product of matter and force, whose
cause is God. Force, naturally expansive and operating on the homogeneous atoms which constitute
elemental matter, is subject to the law of equilibrium, or equivalence of action and reaction.
The development of phenomena under this law may be divided into three stages--the physical,
the physiological, the intellectual and moral. The immaterial in man is the expansive force
inherent in him. Moral and political phenomena are the result of the opposing forces of progress
and preservation, and their perfection lies in the fulfilment of the law of equilibrium or
universal harmony. This may be achieved in seven thousand years, when man will vanish from
the world. In an additional five thousand, a similar equilibrium will obtain in the physical
sphere, which will then itself pass away. In addition to his philosophical work, Azaïs studied
music under his father, Pierre Hyacinthe Azaïs (1743-1796), professor of music at Sorèze and
Toulouse, and composer of sacred music in the style of Gossec. He wrote for the Revue musicale
a series of articles entitled Acoustique fondamentale (1831), containing an ingenious, but
now exploded, theory of the vibration of the air. His other works are: Système universel (8
vols., 1812); Du Sort de l'homme (3 vols., 1820); Cours de philosophie (8 vols., 1824), reproduced
as Explication universelle (3 vols., 1826-1828); Jeunesse, maturité, religion, philosophie
(1837), De la phrénologie, du magnétisme, et de la folie (1843).

AZALEA, a genus of popular hardy or greenhouse plants, belonging to the heath order (Ericaceae),
and scarcely separable botanically from Rhododendron. The beautiful varieties now in cultivation
have been bred from a few originals, natives of the hilly regions of China and Japan, Asia
Minor, and the United States. They are perhaps unequalled as indoor decorative plants. They
are usually increased by grafting the half-ripened shoots on the stronger-growing kinds, the
shoots of the stock and the grafts being in a similarly half-ripened condition, and the plants
being placed in a moist heat of 65°. Large plants of inferior kinds, if healthy, may be grafted
all over with the choicer sorts, so as to obtain a large specimen in a short time. They require
a rich and fibrous peat soil, with a mixture of sand to prevent its getting water-logged. The
best time to pot azaleas is three or four weeks after the blooming is over. The soil should
be made quite solid to prevent its retaining too much water. To produce handsome plants, they
must while young be stopped as required. Specimens that have got leggy may be cut back just
before growth commences. The lowest temperature for them during the winter is about 35°, and
during their season of growth from 55° to 65° at night, and 75° by day, the atmosphere being
at the same time well charged with moisture. They are liable to the attacks of thrips and red
spider, which do great mischief if not promptly destroyed.

The following are some well-known species:--A. arborescens (Pennsylvania), a deciduous shrub
10-20 ft. high; A. calendulacea (Carolina to Pennsylvania), a beautiful deciduous shrub 2-6
ft. high, with yellow, red, orange and copper-coloured flowers; A. hispida, a North American
shrub, 10-15 ft. high, flowers white edged with red; A. indica (China), the so-called Indian
azalea, a shrub 3-6 ft. or more high, the original of numerous single and double varieties,
many of the more vigorous of which are hardy in southern England and Ireland; A. nudiflora,
a North American shrub, 3-4 ft. high, which hybridizes freely with A. calendulacea, A. pontica
and others, to produce single and [v.03 p.0079] double forms of a great variety of shades;
A. pontica (Levant, Caucasus, &c.), 4-6 ft. high, with numerous varieties differing in the
colour of the flowers and the tint of the leaves; A. sinensis (China and Japan), a beautiful
shrub, 3-4 ft. high, with orange-red or yellow bell-shaped flowers, hardy in the southern half
of England, large numbers of varieties being in cultivation under the name of Japanese azaleas.

AZAMGARH, or AZIMGARH, a city and district of British India, in the Gorakhpur division of the
United Provinces. The town is situated on the river Tons, and has a railway station. It is
said to have been founded about 1665 by a powerful landholder named Azim Khan, who owned large
estates in this part of the country. Pop. (1901) 18,835.

The area of the district is 2207 sq. m. It is bounded on the N. by the river Gogra, separating
it from Gorakhpur district; on the E. by Ghazipur district and the river Ganges; on the S.
by the districts of Jaunpur and Ghazipur; and on the W. by Jaunpur and Fyzabad. The portion
of the district lying along the banks of the Gogra is a low-lying tract, varying considerably
in width; south of this, however, the ground takes a slight rise. The slope of the land is
from north-west to south-east, but the general drainage is very inadequate. Roughly speaking,
the district consists of a series of parallel ridges, whose summits are depressed into beds
or hollows, along which the rivers flow; while between the ridges are low-lying rice lands,
interspersed with numerous natural reservoirs. The soil is fertile, and very highly cultivated,
bearing magnificent crops of rice, sugar-cane and indigo. There are several indigo factories.
A branch of the Bengal & North-Western railway to Azamgarh town was opened in 1898. In 1901
the population was 1,529,785, showing a decrease of 11% in the decade. The district was ceded
to the Company in 1801 by the wazirs of Lucknow. In 1857 it became a centre of mutiny. On the
3rd of June 1857 the 17th Regiment of Native Infantry mutinied at Azamgarh, murdered some of
their officers, and carried off the government treasure to Fyzabad. The district became a centre
of the fighting between the Gurkhas and the rebels, and was not finally cleared until October
1858 by Colonel Kelly.

A[Z.][=A]N (Arabic for "announcement"), the call or summons to public prayers proclaimed by
the Muezzin (crier) from the mosque twice daily in all Mahommedan countries. In small mosques
the Muezzin at A[z.][=a]n stands at the door or at the side of the building; in large ones
he takes up his position in the minaret. The call translated runs: "God is most great!" (four
times), "I testify there is no God but God!" (twice), "I testify that Mahomet is the apostle
of God!" (twice), "Come to prayer!" (twice), "Come to salvation!" (twice), "God is most great!"
(twice), "There is no God but God!" To the morning A[z.][=a]n are added the words, "Prayer
is better than sleep!" (twice). The devout Moslem has to make a set response to each phrase
of the Muezzin. At first these are mere repetitions of A[z.][=a]n, but to the cry "Come to
prayer!" the listener must answer, "I have no power nor strength but from God the most High
and Great." To that of "Come to salvation!" the formal response is, "What God willeth will
be: what He willeth not will not be." The recital of the A[z.][=a]n must be listened to with
the utmost reverence. The passers in the streets must stand still, all those at work must cease
from their labours, and those in bed must sit up.

The Muezzin, who is a paid servant of the mosque, must stand with his face towards Mecca and
with the points of his forefingers in his ears while reciting A[z.][=a]n. He is specially chosen
for good character, and A[z.][=a]n must not be recited by any one unclean, by a drunkard, by
the insane, or by a woman. The summons to prayers was at first simply "Come to prayer!" Mahomet,
anxious to invest the call with the dignity of a ceremony, took counsel of his followers. Some
suggested the Jewish trumpet, others the Christian bell, but according to legend the matter
was finally settled by a dream:--"While the matter was under discussion, Abdallah, a Khazrajite,
dreamed that he met a man clad in green raiment, carrying a bell. Abdallah sought to buy it,
saying that it would do well for bringing together the assembly of the faithful. 'I will show
thee a better way,' replied the stranger; 'let a crier cry aloud "God is most great, &c."'
On awaking, Abdallah went to Mahomet and told him his dream," and A[z.][=a]n was thereupon
instituted.

AZARA, DON JOSE NICHOLAS DE (1731-1804), Spanish diplomatist, was born in 1731 at Barbunales,
Aragon, and was appointed in 1765 Spanish agent and procurator-general, and in 1785 ambassador
at Rome. During his long residence there he distinguished himself as a collector of Italian
antiquities and as a patron of art. He was also an able and active diplomatist, took a leading
share in the difficult and hazardous task of the expulsion of the Jesuits from Spain, and was
instrumental in securing the election of Pius VI. He withdrew to Florence when the French took
possession of Rome in 1798, but acted on behalf of the pope during his exile and after his
death at Valence in 1799. He was afterwards Spanish ambassador in Paris. In that post it was
his misfortune to be forced by his government to conduct the negotiations which led to the
treaty of San Ildefonso, by which Spain was wholly subjected to Napoleon. Azara was friendly
to a French alliance, but his experience showed him that his country was being sacrificed to
Napoleon. The First Consul liked him personally, and found him easy to influence. Azara died,
worn out, in Paris in 1804. His end was undoubtedly embittered by his discovery of the ills
which the French alliance must produce for Spain.

Several sympathetic notices of Azara will be found in Thiers, Consulat et Empire. See also
Reinado de Carlos IV, by Gen. J. Gomez de Arteche, in the Historia General de España, published
by the R. Acad. de la Historia, Madrid, 1892, &c. There is a Notice historique sur le Chevalier
d'Azara by Bourgoing (1804).

His younger brother, DON FELIX DE AZARA (1746-1811), spent twenty years in South America as
a commissioner for delimiting the boundary between the Spanish and Portuguese territories.
He made many observations on the natural history of the country, which, together with an account
of the discovery and history of Paraguay and Rio de la Plata, were incorporated in his principal
work, Voyage dans l'Amérique méridionale depuis 1781 jusqu'en 1801, published at Paris in 1809
in French from his MS. by C. A. Walckenaer.

AZARIAH, the name of several persons mentioned in the Old Testament. (1) One of Solomon's "princes,"
son of Zadok the priest (1 Kings iv. 2), was one of several Azariahs among the descendants
of Levi (1 Chron. vi. 9, 10, 13, 36; 2 Chron. xxvi. 17). (2) The son of Nathan, a high official
under King Solomon (1 Kings iv. 5). (3) King of Judah, son of Amaziah by his wife Jecholiah
(2 Kings xv. 1, 2), also called Uzziah (2 Chron. xxvi. 1). (4) Son of Ethan and great-grandson
of Judah (1 Chron. ii. 8). (5) Son of Jehu, of the posterity of Judah (1 Chron. ii. 38). (6)
A prophet in the reign of Asa, king of Judah (2 Chron. xv. 1). (7) Two sons of Jehoshaphat,
king of Judah (2 Chron. xxi. 2). (8) King of Judah, also called Ahaziah and Jehoahaz, son of
Jehoram (2 Chron. xxi. 17; xxii. 1, 6). (9) The son of Jeroham, and (10) the son of Obed, were
made "captains of hundreds" by Jehoiada the priest (2 Chron. xxiii. 1). (11) Son of Hilkiah
and grandfather of Ezra the Scribe (Ezra vii. 1; Neh. vii. 7, viii. 7, x. 2). (12) Son of Maaseiah,
one of those who under the commission of Artaxerxes restored the wall of Jerusalem (Neh. iii.
23). (13) Son of Hoshaiah, an opponent of the prophet Jeremiah (Jer. xliii. 2). (14) One of
the companions in captivity of the prophet Daniel, called Abednego by Nebuchadrezzar, by whom
with two companions he was cast into a "burning fiery furnace" for refusing to worship the
golden image set up by that monarch (Dan. i. 6, iii. 8-30).

AZAY-LE-RIDEAU, a town of western France, in the department of Indre-et-Loire, on the Indre,
16 m. S.W. of Tours by rail. Pop. (1906) 1453. The town has a fine Renaissance chateau, well
restored in modern times, with good collections of furniture and pictures.

AZEGLIO, MASSIMO TAPARELLI, MARQUIS D' (1798-1866), Italian statesman and author, was born
at Turin in October 1798, descended from an ancient and noble Piedmontese family. His father,
Cesare d'Azeglio, was an officer in the Piedmontese army and held a high position at court;
on the return of Pope [v.03 p.0080] Pius VII. to Rome after the fall of Napoleon, Cesare d'Azeglio
was sent as special envoy to the Vatican, and he took his son, then sixteen years of age, with
him as an extra attaché. Young Massimo was given a commission in a cavalry regiment, which
he soon relinquished on account of his health. During his residence in Rome he had acquired
a love for art and music, and he now determined to become a painter, to the horror of his family,
who belonged to the stiff and narrow Piedmontese aristocracy. His father reluctantly consented,
and Massimo settled in Rome, devoting himself to art. He led an abstemious life, maintaining
himself by his painting for several years. But he was constantly meditating on the political
state of Italy. In 1830 he returned to Turin, and after his father's death in 1831 removed
to Milan. There he remained for twelve years, moving in the literary and artistic circles of
the city. He became the intimate of Alessandro Manzoni the novelist, whose daughter he married;
thenceforth literature became his chief occupation instead of art, and he produced two historical
novels, Niccolò dei Lapi and Ettore Fieramosca, in imitation of Manzoni, and with pronounced
political tendencies, his object being to point out the evils of foreign domination in Italy
and to reawaken national feeling. In 1845 he visited Romagna as an unauthorized political envoy,
to report on its conditions and the troubles which he foresaw would break out on the death
of Pope Gregory XVI. The following year he published his famous pamphlet Degli ultimi casi
di Romagna at Florence, in consequence of which he was expelled from Tuscany. He spent the
next few months in Rome, sharing the general enthusiasm over the supposed liberalism of the
new pope, Pius IX.; like V. Gioberti and Balbo he believed in an Italian confederation under
papal auspices, and was opposed to the Radical wing of the Liberal party. His political activity
increased, and he wrote various other pamphlets, among which was I lutti di Lombardia (1848).

On the outbreak of the first war of independence, d'Azeglio donned the papal uniform and took
part under General Durando in the defence of Vicenza, where he was severely wounded. He retired
to Florence to recover, but as he opposed the democrats who ruled in Tuscany, he was expelled
from that country for the second time. He was now a famous man, and early in 1849 Charles Albert,
king of Sardinia, invited him to form a cabinet. But realizing how impossible it was to renew
the campaign, and "not having the heart to sign, in such wretched internal and external conditions,
a treaty of peace with Austria" (Correspondance politique, by E. Rendu), he refused. After
the defeat of Novara (23rd of March 1849), Charles Albert abdicated and was succeeded by Victor
Emmanuel II. D'Azeglio was again called on to form a cabinet, and this time, although the situation
was even more difficult, he accepted, concluded a treaty of peace, dissolved the Chamber, and
summoned a new one to ratify it. The treaty was accepted, and d'Azeglio continued in office
for the next three years. While all the rest of Italy was a prey to despotism, in Piedmont
the king maintained the constitution intact in the face of the general wave of reaction. D'Azeglio
conducted the affairs of the country with tact and ability, improving its diplomatic relations,
and opposing the claims of the Roman Curia. He invited Count Cavour, then a rising young politician,
to enter the ministry in 1850. Cavour and Farini, also a member of the cabinet, made certain
declarations in the Chamber (May 1852) which led the ministry in the direction of an alliance
with Rattazzi and the Left. Of this d'Azeglio disapproved, and therefore resigned office, but
on the king's request he formed a new ministry, excluding both Cavour and Farini. In October,
however, owing to ill-health and dissatisfaction with some of his colleagues, as well as for
other reasons not quite clear, he resigned once more and retired into private life, suggesting
Cavour to the king as his successor.

For the next four years he lived modestly at Turin, devoting himself once more to art, although
he also continued to take an active interest in politics, Cavour always consulting him on matters
of moment. In 1855 he was appointed director of the Turin art gallery. In 1859 he was given
various political missions, including one to Paris and London to prepare the basis for a general
congress of the powers on the Italian question. When war between Piedmont and Austria appeared
inevitable he returned to Italy, and was sent as royal commissioner by Cavour to Romagna, whence
the papal troops had been expelled. After the peace of Villafranca, d'Azeglio was recalled
with orders to withdraw the Piedmontese garrisons; but he saw the danger of allowing the papal
troops to reoccupy the province, and after a severe inner struggle left Bologna without the
troops, and interviewed the king. The latter approved of his action, and said that his orders
had not been accurately expressed; thus Romagna was saved. That same year he published a pamphlet
in French entitled De la Politique et du droit chrétien au point de vue de la question italienne,
with the object of inducing Napoleon III. to continue his pro-Italian policy. Early in 1860
Cavour appointed him governor of Milan, evacuated by the Austrians after the battle of Magenta,
a position which he held with great ability. But, disapproving of the government's policy with
regard to Garibaldi's Sicilian expedition and the occupation by Piedmont of the kingdom of
Naples as inopportune, he resigned office.

The death of his two brothers in 1862 and of Cavour in 1861 caused Massimo great grief, and
he subsequently led a comparatively retired life. But he took part in politics, both as a deputy
and a writer, his two chief subjects of interest being the Roman question and the relations
of Piedmont (now the kingdom of Italy) with Mazzini and the other revolutionists. In his opinion
Italy must be unified by means of the Franco-Piedmontese army alone, all connexion with the
conspirators being eschewed, while the pope should enjoy nominal sovereignty over Rome, with
full spiritual independence, the capital of Italy being established elsewhere, but the Romans
being Italian citizens (see his letters to E. Rendu and his pamphlet Le questioni urgenti).
He strongly disapproved of the convention of 1864 between the Italian government and the pope.
The last few years of d'Azeglio's life were spent chiefly at his villa of Cannero, where he
set to work to write his own memoirs. He died of fever on the 15th of January 1866.

Massimo d'Azeglio was a very attractive personality, as well as an absolutely honest patriot,
and a characteristic example of the best type of Piedmontese aristocrat. He was cautious and
conservative; in his general ideas on the liberation of Italy he was wrong, and to some extent
he was an amateur in politics, but of his sincerity there is no doubt. As an author his political
writings are trenchant and clear, but his novels are somewhat heavy and old-fashioned, and
are interesting only if one reads the political allusions between the lines.

Besides a variety of newspaper articles and pamphlets, d'Azeglio's chief works are the two
novels Ettore Fieramosca (1833) and Niccolò dei Lapi (1841), and a volume of autobiographical
memoirs entitled I Miei Ricordi, a most charming work published after his death, in 1866, but
unfortunately incomplete. See in addition to the Ricordi, L. Carpi's Il Risorgimento Italiano,
vol. i. pp. 288 sq. and the Souvenirs historiques of Constance d'Azeglio, Massimo's niece (Turin,
1884).

(L. V.*)

AZERB[=A]ÏJ[=A]N (also spelt ADERBIJAN; the Azerb[=a]deg[=a]n of medieval writers, the Athropatakan
and Atropatene of the ancients), the north-western and most important province of Persia. It
is separated from Russian territory on the N. by the river Aras (Araxes), while it has the
Caspian Sea, Gilan and Khamseh (Zenj[=a]n) on the E., Kurdistan on the S., and Asiatic Turkey
on the W. Its area is estimated at 32,000 sq. m.; its population at 1½ to 2 millions, comprising
various races, as Persians proper, Turks, Kurds, Syrians, Armenians, &c. The country is superior
in fertility to most provinces of Persia, and consists of a regular succession of undulating
eminences, partially cultivated and opening into extensive plains. Near the centre of the province
the mountains of Sahand rise in an accumulated mass to the height of 12,000 ft. above the sea.
The highest mountain of the province is in its eastern part, Mount Savelan, with an elevation
of 15,792 ft., and the Talish Mountains, which run from north to south, parallel to and at
no great distance from the Caspian, have an altitude of 9000 ft. The principal rivers are the
Aras and Kizil Uzain, both receiving numerous tributaries and flowing into the Caspian, and
the Jaghatu, Tatava, Murdi, Aji and others, which [v.03 p.0081] drain into the Urmia lake.
The country to the west of the lake, with the districts of Selmas and Urmia, is the most prosperous
part of Azerb[=a]ïj[=a]n, yet even here the intelligent traveller laments the want of enterprise
among the inhabitants. Azerb[=a]ïj[=a]n is one of the most productive provinces of Persia.
The orchards and gardens in which many villages are embosomed yield delicious fruits of almost
every description, and great quantities, dried, are exported, principally to Russia. Provisions
are cheap and abundant, but there is a lack of forests and timber trees. Lead, copper, sulphur,
orpiment, also lignite, have been found within the confines of the province; also a kind of
beautiful, variegated, translucent marble, which takes a high polish, is used in the construction
of palatial buildings, tanks, baths, &c., and is known as Maragha, or Tabriz marble. The climate
is healthy, not hot in summer, and cold in winter. The cold sometimes is severely felt by the
poor classes owing to want of proper fuel, for which a great part of the population has no
substitute except dried cow-dung. Snow lies on the mountains for about eight months in the
year, and water is everywhere abundant. The best soils when abundantly irrigated yield from
50- to 60-fold, and the water for this purpose is supplied by the innumerable streams which
intersect the province. The natives of Azerb[=a]ïj[=a]n make excellent soldiers, and about
a third of the Persian army is composed of them. The province is divided into a number of administrative
sub-provinces or districts, each with a h[=a]kim, governor or sub-governor, under the governor-general,
who under the Kajar dynasty has always been the heir-apparent to the throne of Persia, assisted
by a responsible minister appointed by the shah. The administrative divisions are as follows:--Tabriz
and environs; Uskuh; Deh-Kharegan; Maragha; Miandoab; Sa[=u]jbulagh; Sulduz; Urmia; Selmas;
Khoi; Maku; Gerger; Merend; Karadagh; Arvanek; Talish; Ardebil; Mishkin; Khalkh[=a]l; Hashtrud;
Garmrud; Afshar; Sain Kaleh; Ujan; Sarab. The revenue amounts to about £200,000 per annum in
cash and kind, and nearly all of it is expended in the province for the maintenance of the
court of the heir-apparent, the salaries and pay to government officials, troops, pensions, &c.

(A. H.-S.)

AZIMUTH (from the Arabic), in astronomy, the angular distance from the north or south point
of the horizon to the foot of the vertical circle through a heavenly body. In the case of a
horizontal line the azimuth is its deviation from the north or south direction.

AZO (c. 1150-1230), Italian jurist. This Azo, whose name is sometimes written Azzo and Azzolenus,
and who is occasionally described as Azo Soldanus, from the surname of his father, is to be
distinguished from two other famous Italians of the same name, viz. Azo Lambertaccius, a canonist
of the 13th century, professor of canon law at the university of Bologna, author of Questiones
in jus canonicum, and Azo de Ramenghis, a canonist of the 14th century, also a professor of
canon law at Bologna, and author of Repetitiones super libro Decretorum. Few particulars are
known as to the life of Azo, further than that he was born at Bologna about the middle of the
12th century, and was a pupil of Joannes Bassianus, and afterwards became professor of civil
law in the university of his native town. He also took an active part in municipal life, Bologna,
with the other Lombard republics, having gained its municipal independence. Azo occupied a
very important position amongst the glossators, and his Readings on the Code, which were collected
by his pupil, Alessandro de Santo Aegidio, and completed by the additions of Hugolinus and
Odofredus, form a methodical exposition of Roman law, and were of such weight before the tribunals
that it used to be said, "Chi non ha Azzo, non vada a palazzo." Azo gained a great reputation
as a professor, and numbered amongst his pupils Accursius and Jacobus Balduinus. He died about
1230.

AZO COMPOUNDS, organic substances of the type R·N:N·R' (where R = an aryl radical and R' =
a substituted alkyl, or aryl radical). They may be prepared by the reduction of nitro compounds
in alkaline solution (using zinc dust and alkali, or a solution of an alkaline stannite as
a reducing agent); by oxidation of hydrazo compounds; or by the coupling of a diazotized amine
and any compound of a phenolic or aminic type, provided that there is a free para position
in the amine or phenol. They may also be obtained by the molecular rearrangement of the diazoamines,
when these are warmed with the parent base and its hydrochloride. This latter method of formation
has been studied by H. Goldschmidt and R. U. Reinders (Ber., 1896, 29, p. 1369), who found
that the reaction is monomolecular, and that the velocity constant of the reaction is proportional
to the amount of the hydrochloride of the base present and also to the temperature, but is
independent of the concentration of the diazoamine. The azo compounds are intensely coloured,
but are not capable of being used as dyestuffs unless they contain salt-forming, acid or basic
groups (see DYEING). By oxidizing agents they are converted into azoxy compounds, and by reducing
agents into hydrazo compounds or amines.

Azo-benzene, C6H5N:NC6H5, discovered by E. Mitscherlich in 1834, may be prepared by reducing
nitrobenzene in alcoholic solution with zinc dust and caustic soda; by the condensation of
nitrosobenzene with aniline in hot glacial acetic acid solution; or by the oxidation of aniline
with sodium hypobromite. It crystallizes from alcohol in orange red plates which melt at 68°
C. and boil at 293° C. It does not react with acids or alkalis, but on reduction with zinc
dust in acetic acid solution yields aniline.

Amino-azo Compounds may be prepared as shown above. They are usually yellowish brown or red
in colour, the presence of more amino groups leading to browner shades, whilst the introduction
of alkylated amino groups gives redder shades. They usually crystallize well and are readily
reduced. When heated with aniline and aniline hydrochloride they yield indulines (q.v.). Amino-azo-benzene,
C6H5·N2·C6H4NH2, crystallizes in yellow plates or needles and melts at 126° C. Its constitution
is determined by the facts that it may be prepared by reducing nitro-azo-benzene by ammonium
sulphide and that by reduction with stannous chloride it yields aniline and meta-phenylene
diamine. Diamino-azo-benzene (chrysoidine), C6H5·N2·C6H3(NH2)2, first prepared by O. Witt (Ber.,
1877, 10, p. 656), is obtained by coupling phenyl diazonium chloride with meta-phenylene diamine.
It crystallizes in red octahedra and dyes silk and wool yellow. Triamino-azo-benzene (meta-aminobenzene-azo-meta-phenylene
diamine or Bismarck brown, phenylene brown, vesuvine, Manchester brown), NH2·C6H4·N2·C6H3(NH2)2,
is prepared by the action of nitrous acid on meta-phenylene diamine. It forms brown crystals
which are readily soluble in hot water, and it dyes mordanted cotton a dark brown. On the composition
of the commercial Bismarck brown see E. Tauber and F. Walder (Ber., 1897, 30, pp. 2111, 2899;
1900, 33, p. 2116). Alkylated amino-azo-benzenes are also known, and are formed by the coupling
of diazonium salts with alkylated amines, provided they contain a free para position with respect
to the amino group. In these cases it has been shown by H. Goldschmidt and A. Merz (Ber., 1897,
30, p. 670) that the velocity of formation of the amino-azo compound depends only on the nature
of the reagents and not on the concentration, and that in coupling the hydrochloride of a tertiary
amine with diazobenzene sulphonic acid the reaction takes place between the acid and the base
set free by the hydrolytic dissociation of its salt, for the formation of the amino-azo compound,
when carried out in the presence of different acids, takes place most rapidly with the weakest
acid (H. Goldschmidt and F. Buss, Ber., 1897, 30, p. 2075).

Methyl orange (helianthin, gold orange, Mandarin orange), (CH3)2N·C6H4·N2·C6H4SO3Na, is the
sodium salt of para-dimethylaminobenzene-azo-benzene sulphonic acid. It is an orange crystalline
powder which is soluble in water, forming a yellow solution. The free acid is intensely red
in colour. Methyl orange is used largely as an indicator. The constitution of methyl orange
follows from the fact that on reduction by stannous chloride in hydrochloric acid solution
it yields sulphanilic acid and para-aminodimethyl aniline.

Oxyazo Compounds.--The oxyazo compounds are prepared by adding a solution of a diazonium salt
to a cold slightly alkaline solution of a phenol. The diazo group takes up the para position
[v.03 p.0082] with regard to the hydroxyl group, and if this be prevented it then goes into
the ortho position. It never goes directly into the meta position.

The constitution of the oxyazo compounds has attracted much attention, some chemists holding
that they are true azophenols of the type R·N2·R1·OH, while others look upon them as having
a quinonoid structure, i.e. as being quinone hydrazones, type R·NH·N:R1:O. The first to attack
the purely chemical side were Th. Zincke (Ber., 1883,16, p. 2929; 1884, 17, p. 3026; 1887,
20, p. 3171) and R. Meldola (Jour. Chem. Soc., 1889, 55, pp. 114, 603). Th. Zincke found that
the products obtained by coupling a diazonium salt with [alpha]-naphthol, and by condensing
phenyl-hydrazine with [alpha]-naphthoquinone, were identical; whilst Meldola acetylated the
azophenols, and split the acetyl products by reduction in acid solution, but obtained no satisfactory
results. K. Auwers (Zeit. f. phys. Chem., 1896, 21, p. 355; Ber., 1900, 33, p. 1302) examined
the question from the physico-chemical standpoint by determining the freezing-point depressions,
the result being that the para-oxyazo compounds give abnormal depressions and the ortho-oxyazo
compounds give normal depressions; Auwers then concluded that the para compounds are phenolic
and the ortho compounds are quinone hydrazones or act as such. A. Hantzsch (Ber., 1899, 32,
pp. 590, 3089) considers that the oxyazo compounds are to be classed as pseudo-acids, possessing
in the free condition the configuration of quinone hydrazones, their salts, however, being
of the normal phenolic type. J. T. Hewitt (Jour. Chem. Soc., 1900, 77, pp. 99 et seq.) nitrated
para-oxyazobenzene with dilute nitric acid and found that it gave a benzene azo-ortho-nitrophenol,
whereas quinones are not attacked by dilute nitric acid. Hewitt has also attacked the problem
by brominating the oxyazobenzenes, and has shown that when the hydrobromic acid produced in
the reaction is allowed to remain in the system, a brombenzene-azo-phenol is formed, whilst
if it be removed (by the addition of sodium acetate) bromination takes place in the phenolic
nucleus; consequently the presence of the mineral acid gives the azo compound a pseudo-quinonoid
character, which it does not possess if the mineral acid be removed from the sphere of the
reaction.

Para-oxyazobenzene (benzene-azo-phenol), C6H5N:N(1)·C6H4·OH(4), is prepared by coupling diazotized
aniline with phenol in alkaline solution. It is an orange-red crystalline compound which melts
at 154° C. Ortho-oxyazobenzene, C6H5N:N(1)C6H4·OH(2), was obtained in small quantity by E.
Bamberger (Ber., 1900, 33, p. 3189) simultaneously with the para compound, from which it may
be separated by distillation in a current of steam, the ortho compound passing over with the
steam. It crystallizes in orange-red needles which melt at 82.5-83° C. On reduction with zinc
dust in dilute sal-ammoniac solution, it yields ortho-aminophenol and aniline. Meta-oxyazobenzene,
C6H5N:N(1)C6H4·OH(3), was obtained in 1903 by P. Jacobson (Ber., 1903, 36, p. 4093) by condensing
ortho-anisidine with diazo benzene, the resulting compound being then diazotized and reduced
by alcohol to benzene-azo-meta-anisole, from which meta-oxyazobenzene was obtained by hydrolysis
with aluminium chloride. It melts at 112-114° C. and is easily reduced to the corresponding
hydrazo compound.

Diazo-Amines.--The diazo-amines, R·N:N·NHR1, are obtained by the action of primary amines on
diazonium salts; by the action of nitrous acid on a free primary amine, an iso-diazohydroxide
being formed as an intermediate product which then condenses with the amine; and by the action
of nitrosamines on primary amines. They are crystalline solids, usually of a yellow colour,
which do not unite with acids; they are readily converted into amino-azo compounds (see above)
and are decomposed by the concentrated halogen acids, yielding haloid benzenes, nitrogen and
an amine. Acid anhydrides replace the imino-hydrogen atom by acidyl radicals, and boiling with
water converts them into phenols. They combine with phenyl isocyanate to form urea derivatives
(H. Goldschmidt, Ber., 1888, 21, p. 2578), and on reduction with zinc dust (preferably in alcoholic
acetic acid solution) they yield usually a hydrazine and an amine. Diazoamino benzene, C6H5·N:N·NHC6H5,
was first obtained by P. Griess (Ann., 1862, 121, p. 258). It crystallizes in yellow laminae,
which melt at 96° C. and explode at slightly higher temperatures. It is readily soluble in
alcohol, ether and benzene.

Diazoimino benzene, C6H5N3, is also known. It may be prepared by the action of ammonia on diazobenzene
perbromide; by the action of hydroxylamine on a diazonium sulphate (K. Heumann and L. Oeconomides,
Ber., 1887, 20, p. 372); and by the action of phenylhydrazine on a diazonium sulphate. It is
a yellow oil which boils at 59° C. (12 mm.), and possesses a stupefying odour. It explodes
when heated. Hydrochloric acid converts it into chloraniline, nitrogen being eliminated; whilst
boiling sulphuric acid converts it into aminophenol.

Azoxy Compounds, R·[=N·O·N]·R', are usually yellow or red crystalline solids which result from
the reduction of nitro or nitroso compounds by heating them with alcoholic potash (preferably
using methyl alcohol). They may also be obtained by the oxidation of azo compounds. When reduced
(in acid solution) they yield amines; distillation with reduced iron gives azo compounds, and
warming with ammonium sulphide gives hydrazo compounds. Concentrated sulphuric acid converts
azoxybenzene into oxyazobenzene (O. Wallach, Ber., 1880, 13, p. 525). Azoxybenzene, (C6H5N)2O,
crystallizes from alcohol in yellow needles, which melt at 36° C. On distillation, it yields
aniline and azobenzene. Azoxybenzene is also found among the electro-reduction products of
nitrobenzene, when the reduction is carried out in alcoholic-alkaline solution.

The mixed azo compounds are those in which the azo group ·N:N· is united with an aromatic radical
on the one hand, and with a radical of the aliphatic series on the other. The most easily obtained
mixed azo compounds are those formed by the union of a diazonium salt with the potassium or
sodium salt of a nitroparaffin (V. Meyer, Ber., 1876, 9, p. 384):

  C6H5N2·NO3 + CH3·CH(NO2)K = KNO3 + C6H5N2·CH(NO2)CH3.
                                          Benzene-azo-nitro-ethane.

Those not containing a nitro group may be prepared by the oxidation of the corresponding mixed
hydrazo compounds with mercuric oxide. E. Bamberger (Ber., 1898, 31, p. 455) has shown that
the nitro-alkyl derivatives behave as though they possess the constitution of hydrazones, for
on heating with dilute alkalies they split more or less readily into an alkaline nitrite and
an acid hydrazide:

  C6H5NH·N:C(NO2)CH3 + NaOH = NaNO2 + C6H5NH·NH·CO·CH3.

Benzene-azo-methane, C6H5·N2·CH3, is a yellow oil which boils at 150° C. and is readily volatile
in steam. Benzene-azo-ethane, C6H5·N2·C2H5, is a yellow oil which boils at about 180° C. with
more or less decomposition. On standing with 60% sulphuric acid for some time, it is converted
into the isomeric acetaldehyde-phenylhydrazone, C6H5NH·N:CH·CH3 (Ber., 1896, 29, p. 794).

The diazo cyanides, C6H5N2·CN, and carboxylic acids, C6H5·N2·COOH, may also be considered as
mixed azo derivatives. Diazobenzenecyanide, C6H5N2·CN, is an unstable oil, formed when potassium
cyanide is added to a solution of a diazonium salt. Phenyl-azo-carboxylic acid, C6H5·N2·COOH,
is obtained in the form of its potassium salt when phenylsemicarbazide is oxidized with potassium
permanganate in alkaline solution (J. Thiele, Ber., 1895, 28, p. 2600). It crystallizes in
orange-red needles and is decomposed by water. The corresponding amide, phenyl-azo-carbonamide,
C6H5N2·CONH2, also results from the oxidation of phenylsemicarbazide (Thiele, loc. cit.), and
forms reddish-yellow needles which melt at 114° C. When heated with benzaldehyde to 120° C.
it yields diphenyloxytriazole, (C6H5)2CN3C(OH).

AZOIMIDE, or HYDRAZOIC ACID, N3H, a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen, first isolated in 1890
by Th. Curtius (Berichte, 1890, 23, p. 3023). It is the hydrogen compound corresponding to
P. Greiss' diazoimino benzene, C6H5N3, which is prepared by the addition of ammonia to diazobenzene
perbromide.

Curtius found that benzoyl glycollic acid gave benzoyl hydrazine with hydrazine hydrate:

  C6H5OCO·CH2COOH + 2N2H4·H2O = H2O + C6H5CONH·NH2 +
                                          NH2·NH·CH2·COOH.

[v.03 p.0083] (Ethyl benzoate may be employed instead of benzoyl glycollic acid for this reaction.)
This compound gave a nitroso compound with nitrous acid, which changed spontaneously into benzoylazoimide
by loss of water:

  C6H5CO·NH·NH2 + HONO = H2O + C6H5CO·N(NO)·NH2.
        C6H5CO·N(NO)·NH2 = H2O + C6H5CO·N3.

The resulting benzoylazoimide is easily hydrolysed by boiling with alcoholic solutions of caustic
alkalis, a benzoate of the alkali metal and an alkali salt of the new acid being obtained;
the latter is precipitated in crystalline condition on standing.

An improved method of preparation was found in the use of hippuric acid, which reacts with
hydrazine hydrate to form hippuryl hydrazine, C6H5CONH·CH2CONH·NH2, and this substance is converted
by nitrous acid into diazo-hippuramide, C6H5CONH·CH2·CO·NH·N2·OH, which is hydrolysed by the
action of caustic alkalis with the production of salts of hydrazoic acid. To obtain the free
acid it is best to dissolve the diazo-hippuramide in dilute soda, warm the solution to ensure
the formation of the sodium salt, and distil the resulting liquid with dilute sulphuric acid.
The pure acid may be obtained by fractional distillation as a colourless liquid of very unpleasant
smell, boiling at 30° C., and extremely explosive. It is soluble in water, and the solution
dissolves many metals (zinc, iron, &c.) with liberation of hydrogen and formation of salts
(azoimides, azides or hydrazoates). All the salts are explosive and readily interact with the
alkyl iodides. In its properties it shows some analogy to the halogen acids, since it forms
difficultly soluble lead, silver and mercurous salts. The metallic salts all crystallize in
the anhydrous condition and decompose on heating, leaving a residue of the pure metal. The
acid is a "weak" acid, being ionized only to a very slight extent in dilute aqueous solution.

E. Noelting and E. Grandmougin (Berichte, 1891, 24, p. 2546) obtained azoimide from dinitraniline,
C6H3(NO2)2·NH2, by diazotization and conversion of the diazo compound into the perbromide,
(NO2)2C6H3·N2·Br3. This compound is then decomposed by ammonia, dinitrophenylhydrazoate being
formed, which on hydrolysis with alcoholic potash gives potassium hydrazoate (azide) and dinitrophenol.
The solution is then acidified and distilled, when azoimide passes over. Somewhat later, they
found that it could be prepared from diazobenzene imide, provided a nitro group were present
in the ortho or para position to the diazo group. The para-nitro compound is dropped slowly
into a cold solution of one part of caustic potash in ten parts of absolute alcohol; the solution
becomes dark red in colour and is then warmed for two days on the water bath. After the greater
portion of the alcohol has distilled off, the solution is acidified with sulphuric acid and
the azoimide distilled over. The yield obtained is only about 40% of that required by theory,
on account of secondary reactions taking place. Ortho-nitro-diazobenzene imide only yields 30%.

W. Wislicenus (Berichte, 1892, 25, p. 2084) has prepared the sodium salt by passing nitrous
oxide over sodamide at high temperatures. The acid can also be obtained by the action of nitrous
acid on hydrazine sulphate; by the oxidation of hydrazine by hydrogen peroxide and sulphuric
acid (A. W. Browne, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 1905, 25, p. 251), or by ammonium metavanadate (A.
W. Browne and F. F. Shetterly, Abst. J.C.S., 1907, ii. p. 863).

Ammonium azoimide, N3·NH4, may be prepared by boiling diazohippuramide with alcoholic ammonia,
until no more ammonia escapes, the following reaction taking place:

  C6H5CO·NHCH2CONH·N2·OH + 2NH3 = N3·NH4 + H2O +
                                          C6H5CO·NH·CH2·CO·NH2.

The liquid is then allowed to stand for twelve hours, and the clear alcoholic solution is decanted
from the precipitated hippuramide. To the alcoholic solution, four times its volume of ether
is added, when the ammonium salt is precipitated. It is then filtered, washed with ether, and
air-dried. The salt is readily soluble in water, and is only feebly alkaline. It is extremely
explosive. Hydrazine azoimide, N5H5, is also known.

Chloroazoimide, Cl·N3, the chloride corresponding to azoimide, was obtained by F. Raschig (Ber.,
1908, 41, p. 4194) as a highly explosive colourless gas on acidifying a mixture of sodium azide
and hypochlorite with acetic or boric acid.

AZORES (Açores), or WESTERN ISLANDS, an archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, belonging to the
kingdom of Portugal. Pop. (1900) 256,291; area, 922 sq. m. The Azores extend in an oblique
line from N.W. to S.E., between 36° 55' and 39° 55' N., and between 25° and 31° 16' W. They
are divided into three widely severed groups, rising from a depth of more than 2½ m. The south-eastern
group consists of St Michael's (São Miguel) and St Mary (Santa Maria), with Formigas; the central,
of Fayal (Faial), Pico, St George (São Jorge), Terceira and Graciosa; the north-western, of
Flores and Corvo.

The nearest continental land is Cape da Roca on the Portuguese coast, which lies 830 m. E.
of St Michael's; while Cape Cantin, the nearest point on the African mainland, is more than
900 m. distant, and Cape Race in Newfoundland, the nearest American headland, is more than
1000 m. Thus the Azores are the farthest from any continent of all the island groups in the
Atlantic; but they are usually regarded as belonging to Europe, as their climate and flora
are European in character.

Physical Description.--The aspect of all the islands is very similar in general characteristics,
presenting an elevated and [v.03 p.0084] undulating outline, with little or no tableland, and
rising into peaks, of which the lowest, that of Corvo, is 350 ft., and the highest that of
Pico, 7612 ft. above sea-level. The lines of sea-coast are, with few exceptions, high and precipitous,
with bases of accumulated masses of fallen rock, in which open bays, or scarcely more enclosed
inlets, form the harbours of the trading towns. The volcanic character of the whole archipelago
is obvious, and has been abundantly confirmed by the numerous earthquakes and eruptions which
have taken place since its discovery. Basalt and scoria are the chief erupted materials. Hitherto
Flores, Corvo and Graciosa have been quite exempt, and Fayal has only suffered from one eruption
(1672). The centre of activity has for the most part been St Michael's, while the neighbouring
island of St Mary has altogether escaped. In 1444-1445 there was a great eruption at St Michael's,
of which, however, the accounts that have been preserved exaggerate the importance. In 1522
the town of Villa Franca, at that time the capital of the island, was buried, with all its
6000 inhabitants, during a violent convulsion. In 1572 an eruption took place in Pico; in 1580
St George was the scene of numerous outbursts; and in 1614 a little town in Terceira was destroyed.
In 1630, 1652, 1656, 1755, 1852, &c., St Michael's was visited with successive eruptions and
earthquakes, several of them of great violence. On various occasions, as in 1638, 1720, 1811
and 1867, subterranean eruptions have taken place, which have sometimes been accompanied by
the appearance of temporary islands. Of these the most remarkable was thrown up in June 1811,
about half a league from the western extremity of St Michael's. It was called Sabrina by the
commander of the British man-of-war of that name, who witnessed the phenomenon.

Climate.--The climate is particularly temperate, but the extremes of sensible heat and cold
are increased by the humidity. The range of the thermometer is from 45° Fahr., the lowest known
extreme, or 48°, the ordinary lowest extreme of January, to 82°, the ordinary, or 86°, the
highest known extreme of July, near the level of the sea. Between these two points (both taken
in the shade) there is from month to month a pretty regular gradation of increase or decrease,
amounting to somewhat less than four degrees. In winter the prevailing winds are from the north-west,
west and south; in summer the most frequent are the north, north-east and east. The weather
is often extremely stormy, and the winds from the west and south-west render the navigation
of the coasts very dangerous.

Fauna.--The mammalia of the Azores are limited to the rabbit, weasel, ferret, rat (brown and
black), mouse and bat, in addition to domestic animals. The game includes the woodcock, red
partridge (introduced in the 16th century), quail and snipe. Owing to the damage inflicted
on the crops by the multitude of blackbirds, bullfinches, chaffinches and green canaries, a
reward was formerly paid for the destruction of birds in St Michael's, and it is said that
over 400,000 were destroyed in several successive years between 1875 and 1885. There are valuable
fisheries of tunny, mullet and bonito. The porpoise, dolphin and whale are also common. Whale-fishing
is a profitable industry, with its headquarters at Fayal, whence the sperm-oil is exported.
Eels are found in the rivers. The only indigenous reptile is the lizard. Fresh-water molluscs
are unknown, and near the coast the marine fauna is not rich; but terrestrial molluscs abound,
several species being peculiar to the Azores.

Flora.--The general character of the flora is decidedly European, no fewer than 400 out of
the 478 species generally considered as indigenous belonging likewise to that continent, while
only four are found in America, and forty are peculiar to the archipelago. Vegetation in most
of the islands is remarkably rich, especially in grasses, mosses, and ferns, heath, juniper,
and a variety of shrubs. Of tall-growing trees there was, till the 19th century, an almost
total lack; but the Bordeaux pine, European poplar, African palm-tree, Australian eucalyptus,
chestnut, tulip-tree, elm, oak, and many others, were then successfully introduced. The orange,
apricot, banana, lemon, citron, Japanese medlar, and pomegranate are the common fruits, and
various other varieties are more or less cultivated. At one time much attention was given to
the growing of sugar-cane, but it has now for the most part been abandoned. The culture of
indigo, introduced in the 16th century, also belongs to the past. A kind of fern (Dicksonia
culcita), called by the natives cabellinho, furnishes a silky material for the stuffing of
mattresses and is exported to Brazil and Portugal.

Population.--The inhabitants of the islands are mostly of Portuguese origin, with a well-marked
strain of Moorish and Flemish blood. There is a high birth-rate and a low average of infant
mortality. A large proportion of the poorer classes, especially among the older men and women,
are totally illiterate, but education tends to spread more rapidly than in Portugal itself,
owing to the custom of sending children to the United States, where they are taught in the
state schools. Negroes, mulattoes, English, Scottish and Irish immigrants are present in considerable
numbers, especially in Fayal and St Michael's. The total number of resident foreigners in 1900
was 1490.

Government.--The Azores are subdivided into three administrative districts named after their
chief towns, i.e. Ponta Delgada, the capital of St Michael's; Angra, or Angra do Heroismo,
the capital of Terceira; and Horta, the capital of Fayal. St Michael's and St Mary are included
in the district of Ponta Delgada; Terceira, St George and Graciosa, in that of Angra; Pico,
Fayal, Flores and Corvo, in that of Horta. Four members are returned by Ponta Delgada to the
parliament in Lisbon, while each of the other districts returns two members. Roman Catholicism
is the creed of the majority, and Angra is an episcopal see. For purposes of military administration
the islands form two commands, with their respective headquarters at Angra and Ponta Delgada.
Besides the frequent and regular services of mails which connect the Azores with Portugal and
other countries, there is a cable from Lisbon to Villa Franca do Campo, in St Michael's, and
thence to Pico, Fayal, St George and Graciosa. Fayal is connected with Waterville, in Ireland,
by a cable laid in 1901. At Angra and Ponta Delgada there are meteorological stations. The
principal seaports are Angra (pop. 1900, 10,788), Ponta Delgada (17,620), and Horta (6574).

Trade.--The trade of the Azores, long a Portuguese monopoly, is now to a great extent shared
by the United Kingdom and Germany, and is chiefly carried in British vessels. Textiles are
imported from Portugal; coal from Great Britain; sugar from Germany, Madeira and the United
States; stationery, hardware, chemicals, paints, oils, &c., from the United Kingdom and Germany.
The exports consist chiefly of fruit, wine, natural mineral waters and provisions. The trade
in pineapples is especially important. No fewer than 940,000 pineapples were exported in 1902
and 1903, going in almost equal quantities to London and Hamburg. The fruit is raised under
glass. Pottery, cotton fabrics, spirits, straw hats and tea are produced in the district of
Ponta Delgada; linen and woollen goods, cheese, butter, soap, bricks and tiles, in that of
Angra; baskets, mats, and various ornamental articles made from straw, osier, and the pith
of dried fig-wood, in that of Horta.

The largest and most populous of the Azores is St Michael's, which has an area of 297 sq. m.,
and in 1900 had 121,340 inhabitants. Graciosa (pop. 8385; area, 17 sq. m.) and St George (16,177;
40 sq. m.) form part of the central group. Graciosa is noteworthy for the beauty of its scenery.
Its chief towns are Santa Cruz de Graciosa (2185) and Guadalupe (2717). The chief towns of
St George are Ribeira Seca (2817) and Velas (2009).

History.--It does not appear that the ancient Greeks and Romans had any knowledge of the Azores,
but from the number of Carthaginian coins discovered in Corvo it has been supposed that the
islands must have been visited by that adventurous people. The Arabian geographers, Edrisi
in the 12th century, and Ibn-al-Wardi in the 14th, describe, after the Canaries, nine other
islands in the Western Ocean, which are in all probability the Azores. This identification
is supported by various considerations. The number of islands is the same; the climate under
which they are placed by the Arabians makes them north of the Canaries; and special mention
is made of the hawks or buzzards, which were sufficiently numerous at a later period to [v.03
p.0085] give rise to the present name (Port. Açor, a hawk). The Arabian writers represent them
as having been populous, and as having contained cities of some magnitude; but they state that
the inhabitants had been greatly reduced by intestine warfare. The Azores are first found distinctly
marked in a map of 1351, the southern group being named the Goat Islands (Cabreras); the middle
group, the Wind or Dove Islands (De Ventura sive de Columbis); and the western, the Brazil
Island (De Brazi)--the word Brazil at that time being employed for any red dye-stuff. In a
Catalan map of the year 1375 Corvo is found as Corvi Marini, and Flores as Li Conigi; while
St George is already designated San Zorze. It has been conjectured that the discoverers were
Genoese, but of this there is not sufficient evidence. It is plain, however, that the so-called
Flemish discovery by van der Berg is only worthy of the name in a very secondary sense. According
to the usual account, he was driven on the islands in 1432, and the news excited considerable
interest at the court of Lisbon. The navigator, Gonzalo Velho Cabral--not to be confounded
with his greater namesake, Pedro Alvarez Cabral--was sent to prosecute the discovery. Another
version relates that Prince Henry the Navigator of Portugal had in his possession a map in
which the islands were laid down, and that he sent out Cabral through confidence in its accuracy.
The map had been presented to him by his brother, Dom Pedro, who had travelled as far as Babylon.
Be this as it may, Cabral reached the island, which he named Santa Maria, in 1432, and in 1444
took possession of St Michael's. The other islands were all discovered by 1457. Colonization
had meanwhile been going on prosperously; and in 1466 Fayal was presented by Alphonso V. to
his aunt, Isabella, the duchess of Burgundy. An influx of Flemish settlers followed, and the
islands became known for a time as the Flemish Islands. From 1580 to 1640 they were subject,
like the rest of the Portuguese kingdom, to Spain. At that time the Azores were the grand rendezvous
for the fleets on their voyage home from the Indies; and hence they became a theatre of that
maritime warfare which was carried on by the English under Queen Elizabeth against the Peninsular
powers. One such expedition, which took place in 1591, led to the famous sea-fight off Flores,
between the English ship "Revenge," commanded by Sir Richard Grenville, and a Spanish fleet
of fifty-three vessels. Under the active administration of the marquis de Pombal (1690-1782),
considerable efforts were made for the improvement of the Azores, but the stupid and bigoted
government which followed rather tended to destroy these benefits. Towards the beginning of
the 19th century, the possession of the islands, was contested by the claimants for the crown
of Portugal. The adherents of the constitution, who supported against Miguel the rights of
Maria (II.) da Gloria, obtained possession of Terceira in 1829, where they succeeded in maintaining
themselves, and after various struggles, Queen Maria's authority was established over all the
islands. She resided at Angra from 1830 to 1833.

For a general account of the islands, see The Azores, by W. F. Walker (London, 1886), and Madeira
and the Canary Islands, with the Azores, by A. S. Brown (London, 1901). On the fauna and flora
of the islands, the following books by H. Drouet are useful:--Eléments de la faune açoréenne
(Paris, 1861); Mollusques marins des îles Açores (1858), Lettres açoréennes (1862), and Catalogue
de la flore des îles Açores, précédé de l'itinéraire d'une voyage dans cet archipel (1866).
The progress of Azorian commerce is best shown in the British and American consular reports.
For history, see La Conquista de las Azores en 1583, by C. Fernandez Duro (Madrid, 1886), and
Histoire de la découverte des îles Azores et de l'origine de leur dénomination d'îles flamandes,
by J. Mees (Ghent, 1901).

AZOTH, the name given by the alchemists to mercury, and by Paracelsus to his universal remedy.

AZOTUS, the name given by Greek and Roman writers to Ashdod, an ancient city of Palestine,
now represented by a few remains in the little village of `Esdud, in the governmental district
of Acre. It was situated about 3 m. inland from the Mediterranean, on the famous military route
between Syria and Egypt, about equidistant (18 m.) from Joppa and Gaza. As one of the five
chief cities of the Philistines and the seat of the worship of Dagon (1 Sam. v.; cf. 1 Macc.
x. 83), it maintained, down even to the days of the Maccabees, a vigorous though somewhat intermittent
independence against the power of the Israelites, by whom it was nominally assigned to the
territory of Judah. In 711 B.C. it was captured by the Assyrians (Is. xx. 1), but soon regained
its power, and was strong enough in the next century to resist the assaults of Psammetichus,
king of Egypt, for twenty-nine years (Herod. ii. 157). Restored by the Roman Gabinius from
the ruins to which it had been reduced by the Jewish wars (1 Macc. v. 68, x. 77, xvi. 10),
it was presented by Augustus to Salome, the sister of Herod. The only New Testament reference
is in Acts viii. 40. Ashdod became the seat of a bishop early in the Christian era, but seems
never to have attained any importance as a town. The Mount Azotus of 1 Macc. ix. 15, where
Judas Maccabeus fell, is possibly the rising ground on which the village stands. A fine Saracenic
kh[=a]n is the principal relic of antiquity at `Esdud.

AZOV, or Asov (in Turkish, Asak), a town of Russia, in the government of the Don Cossacks,
on the left bank of the southern arm of the Don, about 20 m. from its mouth. The ancient Tanais
lay some 10 m. to the north. In the 13th century the Genoese had a factory here which they
called Tana. Azov was long a place of great military and commercial importance. Peter the Great
obtained possession of it after a protracted siege in 1696, but in 1711 restored it to the
Turks; in 1739 it was finally united to the Russian empire. Since then it has greatly declined,
owing to the silting up of its harbour and the competition of Taganrog. Its population, principally
engaged in the fisheries, numbered 25,124 in 1900.

AZOV, SEA OF an inland sea of southern Europe, communicating with the Black Sea by the Strait
of Yenikale, or Kerch, the ancient Bosporus Cimmerius. To the Romans it was known as the Palus
Maeotis, from the name of the neighbouring people, who called it in their native language Temarenda,
or Mother of Waters. It was long supposed to possess direct communication with the Northern
Ocean. In prehistoric times a connexion with the Caspian Sea existed; but since the earliest
historical times no great change has taken place in regard to the character or relations of
the Sea of Azov. It lies between 45° 20' and 47° 18' N. lat, and between 35° and 39° E. long.,
its length from south-west to north-east being 230 m., and its greatest breadth 110. The area
runs to 14,515 sq. m. It generally freezes from November to the middle of April. The Don is
its largest and, indeed, its only very important affluent. Near the mouth of that river the
depth of the sea varies from 3 to 10 ft., and the greatest depth does not exceed 45 ft. Of
recent years, too, the level has been constantly dropping, for the surface lies 4¾ ft. higher
than the surface of the Black Sea. Fierce and continuous winds from the east prevail during
July and August, and in the latter part of the year those from the north-east and south-east
are not unusual; a great variety of currents is thus produced. The water is for the most part
comparatively fresh, but differs considerably in this respect according to locality and current.
Fish are so abundant that the Turks describe it as Baluk-deniz, or Fish Sea. To the west, separated
from the main basin by the long narrow sand-spit of Arabat, lie the remarkable lagoons and
marshes known as the Sivash, or Putrid Sea; here the water is intensely salt. The Sea of Azov
is of great importance to Russian commerce; along its shores stand the cities of Taganrog,
Berdyansk, Mariupol and Yenikale.

AZOXIMES (furo [a.b.] diazoles), a class of organic compounds which contain the ring system

<math>HC = N  N = CH[|]\/[|]O.<math>

They may be prepared by converting nitriles into amidoximes by the action of hydroxylamine,
the amidoximes so formed being then acylated by acid chlorides or anhydrides. From these acyl
derivatives the elements of water are removed, either by simple heating or by boiling their
aqueous solution; this elimination is accompanied by the formation of the azoxime ring. Thus

            NH2OH            // N·OH   boil with
  C6H5CN --------> C6H5·C           -------->
                              \  NH2   propionic anhydride

    [         //N·O·COC2H5 ]             // N·O \
    [ C6H5C                ] --> C6H5·C        C·C2H5.
    [         \ NH2         ]             \  N   //

[v.03 p.0086] Azoximes can also be produced from [alpha]-benzil dioxime by the "Beckmann" change.
Most of the azoximes are very volatile substances, sublime readily, and are easily soluble
in water, alcohol and benzene.

For detailed descriptions, see F. Tiemann (Ber., 1885, 18, p. 1059), O. Schulz (Ber., 1885,
18, pp. 1084, 2459), and G. Müller (Ber., 1886, 19, p. 1492); also Annual Reports of the Chemical
Society).

AZTECS (from the Nahuatl word aztlan, "place of the Heron," or "Heron" people), the native
name of one of the tribes that occupied the tableland of Mexico on the arrival of the Spaniards
in America. It has been very frequently employed as equivalent to the collective national title
of Nahuatlecas or Mexicans. The Aztecs came, according to native tradition, from a country
to which they gave the name of Aztlan, usually supposed to lie towards the north-west, but
the satisfactory localization of it is one of the greatest difficulties in Mexican history.
The date of the exodus from Aztlan is equally undetermined, being fixed by various authorities
in the 11th and by others in the 12th century. One Mexican manuscript gives a date equivalent
to A.D. 1164. They gradually increased their influence among other tribes, until, by union
with the Toltecs, who occupied the tableland before them, they extended their empire to an
area of from 18,000 to 20,000 square leagues. The researches of Humboldt gave the first clear
insight into the early periods of their history. See MEXICO; NAHUATLAN STOCK.

AZUAGA, a town of western Spain, in the province of Badajoz, on the Belmez-Fuente del Arco
railway. Pop. (1900) 14,192. Azuaga is the central market for the live-stock of the broad upland
pastures watered by the Matachel, a left-hand tributary of the Guadiana, and by the Bembézar,
a right-hand tributary of the Guadalquivir. Coarse woollen goods and pottery are manufactured
in the town.

AZUAY (sometimes written ASSUAY), a province of Ecuador, bounded N. by the province of Cañar,
E. by Oriente, S. by Loja, and W. by El Oro. It was formerly called Cuenca, and formed part
of the department of Azuay, which also included the province of Loja. Azuay is an elevated
mountainous district with a great variety of climates and products; among the latter are silver,
quicksilver, wheat, Indian corn, barley, cattle, wool, cinchona and straw hats. The capital
is Cuenca.

AZUNI, DOMENICO ALBERTO (1749-1827), Italian jurist, was born at Sassar, in Sardinia, in 1749.
He studied law at Sassari and Turin, and in 1782 was made judge of the consulate at Nice. In
1786-1788 he published his Dizionario Universale Ragionato della Giurisprudenza Mercantile.
In 1795 appeared his systematic work on the maritime law of Europe, Sistema Universale dei
Principii del Diritto Maritimo dell' Europa, which he afterwards recast and translated into
French. In 1806 he was appointed one of the French commission engaged in drawing up a general
code of commercial law, and in the following year he proceeded to Genoa as president of the
court of appeal. After the fall of Napoleon in 1814, Azuni lived for a time in retirement at
Genoa, till he was invited to Sardinia by Victor Emmanuel I., and appointed judge of the consulate
at Cagliari, and director of the university library. He died at Cagliari in 1827. Azuni also
wrote numerous pamphlets and minor works, chiefly on maritime law, an important treatise on
the origin and progress of maritime law (Paris, 1810), and an historical, geographical and
political account of Sardinia (1799, enlarged 1802).

AZURARA, GOMES EANNES DE (?-1474), the second notable Portuguese chronicler in order of date.
He adopted the career of letters in middle life. He probably entered the royal library as assistant
to Fernão Lopes (q.v.) during the reign of King Duarte (1433-1438), and he had sole charge
of it in 1452. His Chronicle of the Siege and Capture of Ceuta, a supplement to the Chronicle
of King John I., by Lopes, dates from 1450, and three years later he completed the first draft
of the Chronicle of the Discovery and Conquest of Guinea, our authority for the early Portuguese
voyages of discovery down the African coast and in the ocean, more especially for those undertaken
under the auspices of Prince Henry the Navigator. It contains some account of the life work
of that prince, and has a biographical as well as a geographical interest. On the 6th of June
1454 Azurara became chief keeper of the archives and royal chronicler in succession to Fernão
Lopes. In 1456 King Alphonso V. commissioned him to write the history of Ceuta, "the land-gate
of the East," under the governorship of D. Pedro de Menezes, from its capture in 1415 until
1437, and he had it ready in 1463. A year afterwards the king charged him with a history of
the deeds of D. Duarte de Menezes, captain of Alcacer, and, proceeding to Africa, he spent
a twelvemonth in the town collecting materials and studying the scenes of the events he was
to describe, and in 1468 he completed the chronicle. Alphonso corresponded with Azurara on
terms of affectionate intimacy, and no less than three commendas of the order of Christ rewarded
his literary services. He has little of the picturesque ingenuousness of Lopes, and loved to
display his erudition by quotations and philosophical reflections, showing that he wrote under
the influence of the first Renaissance. Nearly all the leading classical, early Christian and
medieval writers figure in his pages, and he was acquainted with the notable chronicles and
romances of Europe and had studied the best Italian and Spanish authors. In addition, he had
mastered the geographical system of the ancients and their astrology. As an historian he is
laborious, accurate and conscientious, though his position did not allow him to tell the whole
truth about his hero, Prince Henry.

His works include: (1) Chronica del Rei D. Joam I. Terceira parte em que se contem a tomada
de Ceuta (Lisbon, 1644); (2) Chronica do Descobrimento e Conquista de Guiné (Paris, 1841; Eng.
version in 2 vols. issued by the Hakluyt Society, London, 1896-1899); (3) Chronica do Conde
D. Pedro (de Menezes), printed in the Ineditos de Historia Portugueza, vol. ii. (Lisbon, 1792);
(4) Chronica do Conde D. Duarte de Menezes, printed in the Ineditos, vol. iii. (Lisbon, 1793).
The preface to the English version of the Chronicle of Guinea contains a full account of the
life and writings of Azurara and cites all the authorities.

(E. PR.)

AZURE (derived, through the Romance languages, from the Arabic al-lazward, for the precious
stone lapis lazuli, the initial l having dropped), the lapis lazuli; and so its colour, blue.

AZURITE, or CHESSYLITE, a mineral which is a basic copper carbonate, 2CuCO3·Cu(OH)2. In its
vivid blue colour it contrasts strikingly with the emerald-green malachite, also a basic copper
carbonate, but containing rather more water and less carbon dioxide. It was known to Pliny
under the name caeruleum, and the modern name azurite (given by F. S. Beudant in 1824) also
has reference to the azure-blue colour; the name chessylite, also in common use, is of later
date (1852), and is from the locality, Chessy near Lyons, which has supplied the best crystallized
specimens of the mineral. Crystals of azurite belong to the monoclinic system; they have a
vitreous lustre and are translucent. The streak is blue, but lighter than the colour of the
mineral in mass. Hardness 3½--4; sp. gr. 3.8.

Azurite occurs with malachite in the upper portions of deposits of copper ore, and owes its
origin to the alteration of the sulphide or of native copper by water containing carbon dioxide
and oxygen. It is thus a common mineral in all copper mines, and sometimes occurs in large
masses, as in Arizona and in South Australia, where it has been worked as an ore of copper,
of which element it contains 55%. Being less hydrated than malachite it is itself liable to
alteration into this mineral, and pseudomorphs of malachite after azurite are not uncommon.
Occasionally the massive material is cut and polished for decorative purposes, though the application
in this direction is far less extensive than that of malachite.

(L. J. S.)

AZYMITES (Gr. [Greek: a-], without; [Greek: zumê], leaven), a name given by the Orthodox Eastern
to the Western or Latin Church, because of the latter's use of unleavened bread in the Eucharist,
a practice which arose in the 9th century and is also observed by Armenians and Maronites following
the Jewish passover custom. The Orthodox Church strenuously maintains its point, arguing that
the very name bread, the holiness of the mystery, and the example of Jesus and the early church
alike, testify against the use of unleavened bread in this connexion.

[v.03 p.0087]

B This letter corresponds to the second symbol in the Phoenician alphabet, and appears in the
same position in all the European alphabets, except those derived, like the Russian, from medieval
Greek, in which the pronunciation of this symbol had changed from b to v. A new form had therefore
to be invented for the genuine b in Slavonic, to which there was, at the period when the alphabet
was adopted, no corresponding sound in Greek. The new symbol, which occupies the second position,
was made by removing the upper loop of B, thus producing a symbol somewhat resembling an ordinary
lowercase b. The old B retained the numerical value of the Greek [beta] as 2, and no numerical
value was given to the new symbol. In the Phoenician alphabet the earliest forms are [Two Bs]
or more rounded [1]. The rounded form appears also in the earliest Aramaic (see ALPHABET).
Like some other alphabetic symbols it was not borrowed by Greek in its original form. In the
very early rock inscriptions of Thera (700-600 B.C.), written from right to left; it appears
in a form resembling the ordinary Greek [lambda]; this form apparently arose from writing the
Semitic symbol upside down. Its form in inscriptions of Melos, Selinus, Syracuse and elsewhere
in the 6th and 5th centuries suggests the influence of Aramaic forms in which the head of the
letter is opened, [2]. The Corinthian [3], [4] and [5] (also at Corcyra) and the [Two Bs] of
Byzantine coins are other adaptations of the same symbol. The form [6] which it takes in the
alphabets of Naxos, Delos and other Ionic islands at the same period is difficult to explain.
Otherwise its only variation is between pointed and rounded loops ([7] and [8]). The sound
which the symbol represents is the voiced stop made by closing the lips and vibrating the vocal
chords (see PHONETICS). It differs from p by the presence of vibration of the vocal chords
and from m because the nasal passage as well as the lips is closed. When an audible emission
of breath attends its production the aspirate bh is formed. This sound was frequent in the
pro-ethnic period of the Indo-European languages and survived into the Indo-Aryan languages.
According to the system of phonetic changes generally known as "Grimm's law," an original b
appears in English as p, an original bh as b. An original medial p preceding the chief accent
of the word also appears as b in English and the other members of the same group. It is not
certain that any English word is descended from an original word beginning with b, though it
has been suggested that peg is of the same origin as the Latin baculum and the Greek [Greek:
baktron]. When the lips are not tightly closed the sound produced is not a stop, but a spirant
like the English w. In Late Latin there was a tendency to this spirant pronunciation which
appears as early as the beginning of the 2nd century A.D.; by the 3rd century b and consonantal
u are inextricably confused. When this consonantal u (English w as seen in words borrowed very
early from Latin like wall and wine) passed into the sound of English v (labio-dental) is not
certain, but Germanic words borrowed into Latin in the 5th century A.D. have in their Latin
representation gu- for Germanic w-, guisa corresponding to English wise and reborrowed indirectly
as guise.

The earliest form of the name of the symbol which we can reach is the Hebrew beth, to which
the Phoenician must have been closely akin, as is shown by the Greek [Greek: bêta], which is
borrowed from it with a vowel affixed.

(P. GI.)

BAADER, FRANZ XAVER VON (1765-1841), German philosopher and theologian, born on the 27th of
March 1765 at Munich, was the third son of F. P. Baader, court physician to the elector of
Bavaria. His brothers were both distinguished--the elder, Clemens, as an author; the second,
Joseph (1763-1835), as an engineer. Franz studied medicine at Ingolstadt and Vienna, and for
a short time assisted his father in his practice. This life he soon found uncongenial, and
decided on becoming a mining engineer. He studied under Abraham Gottlob Werner at Freiberg,
travelled through several of the mining districts in north Germany, and for four years, 1792-1796,
resided in England. There he became acquainted with the works of Jakob Boehme, and with the
ideas of Hume, Hartley and Godwin, which were extremely distasteful to him. The mystical speculations
of Meister Eckhart, Saint Martin, and above all those of Boehme, were more in harmony with
his mode of thought. In 1796 he returned from England, and in Hamburg became acquainted with
F. H. Jacobi, with whom he was for years on terms of friendship. He now learned something of
Schelling, and the works he published during this period were manifestly influenced by that
philosopher. Yet Baader is no disciple of Schelling, and probably gave out more than he received.
Their friendship continued till about the year 1822, when Baader's denunciation of modern philosophy
in his letter to the emperor Alexander I. of Russia entirely alienated Schelling.

All this time Baader continued to apply himself to his profession of engineer. He gained a
prize of 12,000 gulden (about £1000) for his new method of employing Glauber's salts instead
of potash in the making of glass. From 1817 to 1820 he held the post of superintendent of mines,
and was raised to the rank of nobility for his services. He retired in 1820, and soon after
published one of the best of his works, Fermenta Cognitionis, 6 parts, 1822-1825, in which
he combats modern philosophy and recommends the study of Boehme. In 1826, when the new university
was opened at Munich, he was appointed professor of philosophy and speculative theology. Some
of the lectures delivered there he published under the title, Spekulative Dogmatik, 4 parts,
1827-1836. In 1838 he opposed the interference in civil matters of the Roman Catholic Church,
to which he belonged, and in consequence was, during the last three years of his life, interdicted
from lecturing on the philosophy of religion. He died on the 23rd of May 1841.

It is difficult to summarize Baader's philosophy, for he himself generally gave expression
to his deepest thoughts in obscure aphorisms, or mystical symbols and analogies (see Ed. Zeller's
Ges. d. deut. Phil. 732, 736). Further, he has no systematic works; his doctrines exist for
the most part in short detached essays, in comments on the writings of Boehme and Saint Martin,
or in his extensive correspondence and journals. At the same time there are salient points
which mark the outline of his thought. Baader starts from the position that human reason by
itself can never reach the end it aims at, and maintains that we cannot throw aside the presuppositions
of faith, church and tradition. His point of view may be described as Scholasticism; for, like
the scholastic doctors, he believes that theology and philosophy are not opposed sciences,
but that reason has to make clear the truths given by authority and revelation. But in his
attempt to draw still closer the realms of faith and knowledge he approaches more nearly to
the mysticism of Eckhart, Paracelsus and Boehme. Our existence depends on the fact that we
are cognized by God (cogitor ergo cogito et sum). All self-consciousness is at the same time
God-consciousness; our knowledge is never mere scientia, it is invariably con-scientia--a knowing
with, consciousness of, or participation in God. Baader's philosophy is thus essentially a
theosophy. God is not to be conceived as mere abstract Being (substantia), but as everlasting
process, activity (actus). Of this process, this self-generation of God, we may distinguish
two aspects--the immanent or esoteric, and the emanent or exoteric. God has reality only in
so far as He is absolute spirit, and only in so far as the primitive will is conscious of itself
can it become spirit at all. But in this very cognition of self is involved the distinction
of knower and known, from which proceeds the power to become spirit. This immanent process
of self-consciousness, wherein indeed a trinity of persons is not given but only rendered possible,
is mirrored in, and takes place through, the eternal and impersonal idea or wisdom of God,
which exists beside, though not distinct from, the primitive will. Concrete reality or personality
is given to this divine Ternar, as Baader calls it, through nature, the principle of self-hood,
of individual being, which is eternally and necessarily produced by God. Only in nature is
the trinity of persons attained. These processes, it must be noticed, are not to be conceived
as successive, or as taking place in time; they are to be looked at sub specie aeternitatis,
as the necessary elements or moments in the self-evolution of the divine Being. Nor is nature
to be confounded with created substance, or with matter as it exists in space and time; it
is pure non-being, the mere otherness (alteritas) of God-his shadow, desire, want, or desiderium
sui, as it is called by mystical writers. Creation, itself a free and non-temporal act of God's
love and will, cannot be speculatively deduced, but must be accepted as an historic [v.03 p.0088]
fact. Created beings were originally of three orders--the intelligent or angels; the non-intelligent
natural existences; and man, who mediated between these two orders. Intelligent beings are
endowed with freedom; it is possible, but not necessary, that they should fall. Hence the fact
of the fall is not a speculative but an historic truth. The angels fell through pride--through
desire to raise themselves to equality with God; man fell by lowering himself to the level
of nature. Only after the fall of man begins the creation of space, time and matter, or of
the world as we now know it; and the motive of this creation was the desire to afford man an
opportunity for taking advantage of the scheme of redemption, for bringing forth in purity
the image of God according to which he has been fashioned. The physical philosophy and anthropology
which Baader, in connexion with this, unfolds in various works, is but little instructive,
and coincides in the main with the utterances of Boehme. In nature and in man he finds traces
of the dire effects of sin, which has corrupted both and has destroyed their natural harmony.
As regards ethics, Baader rejects the Kantian or any autonomic system of morals. Not obedience
to a moral law, but realization in ourselves of the divine life is the true ethical end. But
man has lost the power to effect this by himself; he has alienated himself from God, and therefore
no ethical theory which neglects the facts of sin and redemption is satisfactory or even possible.
The history of man and of humanity is the history of the redeeming love of God. The means whereby
we put ourselves so in relation with Christ as to receive from Him his healing virtue are chiefly
prayer and the sacraments of the church; mere works are never sufficient. Man in his social
relations is under two great institutions. One is temporal, natural and limited--the state;
the other is eternal, cosmopolitan and universal--the church. In the state two things are requisite:
first, common submission to the ruler, which can be secured or given only when the state is
Christian, for God alone is the true ruler of men; and, secondly, inequality of rank, without
which there can be no organization. A despotism of mere power and liberalism, which naturally
produces socialism, are equally objectionable. The ideal state is a civil community ruled by
a universal or Catholic church, the principles of which are equally distinct from mere passive
pietism, or faith which will know nothing, and from the Protestant doctrine, which is the very
radicalism of reason.

Baader is, without doubt, among the greatest speculative theologians of modern Catholicism,
and his influence has extended itself even beyond the precincts of his own church. Among those
whom he influenced were R. Rothe, Julius Müller and Hans L. Markensen.

His works were collected and published by a number of his adherents--F. Hoffman, J. Hamberger,
E. v. Schaden, Lutterbeck, von Osten-Sacken and Schlüter--Baader's sämmtliche Werke (16 vols.,
1851-1860). Valuable introductions by the editors are prefixed to the several volumes. Vol.
xv. contains a full biography; vol. xvi. an index, and an able sketch of the whole system by
Lutterbeck. See F. Hoffmann, Vorhalle zur spekulativen Lehre Baader's (1836); Grundzüge der
Societäts-Philosophie Franz Baader's (1837); Philosophische Schriften (3 vols., 1868-1872);
Die Weltalter (1868); Biographie und Briefwechsel (Leipzig, 1887); J. Hamberger, Cardinalpunkte
der Baaderschen Philosophie (1855); Fundamentalbegriffe von F. B.'s Ethik, Politik, u. Religions-Philosophie
(1858); J. A. B. Lutterbeck, Philosophische Standpunkte Baaders (1854); Baaders Lehre vom Weltgebäude
(1866). The most satisfactory surveys are those given by Erdmann, Versuch einer Gesch. d. neuern
Phil. iii. 2, pp. 583-636; J. Claassen, Franz von Baaders Leben und theosophische Werke (Stuttgart,
1886-1887), and Franz von Baaders Gedanken über Staat und Gesellschaft (Gütersloh, 1890); Otto
Pfleiderer, Philosophy of Religion (vol. ii., Eng. trans. 1887); R. Falckenberg, History of
Philosophy, pp. 472-475 (trans. A. C. Armstrong, New York, 1893); Reichel, Die Sozietätsphilosophie
Franz v. Baaders (Tübingen, 1901); Kuno Fischer, Zur hundertjährigen Geburtstagfeier Baaders
(Erlangen, 1865).

BAAL, a Semitic word, which primarily signifies lord, owner or inhabitant,[9] and then, in
accordance with the Semitic way of looking at family and religious relations, is specially
appropriated to express the relation of a husband to his wife and of the deity to his worshipper.
In the latter usage it indicated not that the god was the lord of the worshipper, but rather
the possessor of, or ruler in, some place or district. In the Old Testament it is regularly
written with the article, i.e. "the Baal"; and the baals of different tribes or sanctuaries
were not necessarily conceived as identical, so that we find frequent mention of Baalim, or
rather "the Baalim" in the plural. That the Israelites even applied the title of Baal to Yahweh
himself is proved by the occurrence of such names as Jerubbaal (Gideon), Eshbaal (one of Saul's
sons) and Beeliada (a son of David, 1 Chron. xiv. 7). The last name appears in 2 Sam. v. 16
as Eliada, showing that El (God) was regarded as equivalent to Baal; cf. also the name Be`aliah,
"Yahweh is baal or lord," which survives in 1 Chron. xii. 5. However, when the name Baal was
exclusively appropriated to idolatrous worship (cf. Hos. ii. 16 seq.), abhorrence for the unholy
word was marked by writing b[=o]sheth (shameful thing) for baal in compound proper names, and
thus we get the usual forms Ishbosheth, Mephibosheth.

The great difficulty which has been felt by investigators in determining the character and
attributes of the god Baal mainly arises from the original appellative sense of the word, and
many obscure points become clear if we remember that when a title becomes a proper name it
may be appropriated by different peoples to quite distinct deities. Baal being originally a
title, and not a proper name, the innumerable baals could be distinguished by the addition
of the name of a place or of some special attribute.[10] Accordingly, the baals are not to
be regarded necessarily as local variations of one and the same god, like the many Virgins
or Madonnas of Catholic lands, but as distinct numina. Each community could speak of its own
baal, although a collection of allied communities might share the same cult, and naturally,
since the attributes ascribed to the individual baals were very similar, subsequent syncretism
was facilitated.

The Baal, as the head of each worshipping group, is the source of all the gifts of nature (cf.
Hos. ii. 8 seq., Ezek. xvi. 19); as the god of fertility all the produce of the soil is his,
and his adherents bring to him their tribute of first-fruits. He is the patron of all growth
and fertility, and, by the "uncontrolled use of analogy characteristic of early thought," the
Baal is the god of the productive element in its widest sense. Originating probably, in the
observation of the fertilizing effect of rains and streams upon the receptive and reproductive
soil, baalism becomes identical with the grossest nature-worship. Joined with the baals there
are naturally found corresponding female figures known as Asht[=a]r[=o]th, embodiments of Asht[=o]reth
(see ASTARTE; ISHTAR). In accordance with primitive notions of analogy,[11] which assume that
it is possible to control or aid the powers of nature by the practice of "sympathetic magic"
(see MAGIC), the cult of the baals and Asht[=a]r[=o]th was characterized by gross sensuality
and licentiousness.

The fragmentary allusions to the cult of Baal Peor (Num. xxv., Hos. ix. 10, Ps. cvi. 28 seq.)
exemplify the typical species of Dionysiac orgies that prevailed.[12] On the summits of hills
and mountains flourished the cult of the givers of increase, and "under every green tree" was
practised the licentiousness which in primitive thought was held to secure abundance of crops
(see Frazer, Golden Bough, 2nd ed. vol. ii. pp. 204 sqq.). Human sacrifice (Jer. xix. 5), the
burning of incense (Jer. vii. 9), violent and ecstatic exercises, ceremonial acts of bowing
and kissing, the preparing of sacred mystic cakes, appear among the offences denounced by the
Israelite prophets, and show that the cult of Baal (and Astarte) included the characteristic
features of heathen worship which recur in various parts of the Semitic world, although attached
to other names.[13]

By an easy transition the local gods of the streams and springs which fertilized the increase
of the fields became identified with [v.03 p.0089] the common source of all streams, and proceeding
along this line it was possible for the numerous baals to be regarded eventually as mere forms
of one absolute deity. Consequently, the Baal could be identified with some supreme power of
nature, e.g. the heavens, the sun, the weather or some planet. The particular line of development
would vary in different places, but the change from an association of the Baal with earthly
objects to heavenly is characteristic of a higher type of belief and appears to be relatively
later. The idea which has long prevailed that Baal was properly a sky-god affords no explanation
of the local character of the many baals; on the other hand, on the theory of a higher development
where the gods become heavenly or astral beings, the fact that ruder conceptions of nature
were still retained (often in the unofficial but more popular forms of cult) is more intelligible.

A specific Baal of the heavens appears to have been known among the Hittites in the time of
Rameses II., and considerably later, at the beginning of the 7th century, it was the title
of one of the gods of Phoenicia. In Babylonia, from a very early period, Baal became a definite
individual deity, and was identified with the planet Jupiter. This development is a mark of
superior culture and may have been spread through Babylonian influence. Both Baal and Astarte
were venerated in Egypt at Thebes and Memphis in the XIXth Dynasty, and the former, through
the influence of the Aramaeans who borrowed the Babylonian spelling Bel, ultimately became
known as the Greek Belos who was identified with Zeus.

Of the worship of the Tyrian Baal, who is also called Melkart (king of the city), and is often
identified with the Greek Heracles, but sometimes with the Olympian Zeus, we have many accounts
in ancient writers, from Herodotus downwards. He had a magnificent temple in insular Tyre,
founded by Hiram, to which gifts streamed from all countries, especially at the great feasts.
The solar character of this deity appears especially in the annual feast of his awakening shortly
after the winter solstice (Joseph. C. Apion. i. 18). At Tyre, as among the Hebrews, Baal had
his symbolical pillars, one of gold and one of smaragdus, which, transported by phantasy to
the farthest west, are still familiar to us as the Pillars of Hercules. The worship of the
Tyrian Baal was carried to all the Phoenician colonies.[14] His name occurs as an element in
Carthaginian proper names (Hannibal, Hasdrubal, &c.), and a tablet found at Marseilles still
survives to inform us of the charges made by the priests of the temple of Baal for offering
sacrifices.

The history of Baalism among the Hebrews is obscured by the difficulty of determining whether
the false worship which the prophets stigmatize is the heathen worship of Yahweh under a conception,
and often with rites, which treated him as a local nature god; or whether Baalism was consciously
recognized to be distinct from Yahwism from the first. Later religious practice was undoubtedly
opposed to that of earlier times, and attempts were made to correct narratives containing views
which had come to be regarded as contrary to the true worship of Yahweh. The Old Testament
depicts the history of the people as a series of acts of apostasy alternating with subsequent
penitence and return to Yahweh, and the question whether this gives effect to actual conditions
depends upon the precise character of the elements of Yahweh worship brought by the Israelites
into Palestine. This is still under dispute. There is strong evidence at all events that many
of the conceptions are contrary to historical fact, and the points of similarity between native
Canaanite cult and Israelite worship are so striking that only the persistent traditions of
Israel's origin and of the work of Moses compel the conclusion that the germs of specific Yahweh
worship existed from his day. The earliest certain reaction against Baalism is ascribed to
the reign of Ahab, whose marriage with Jezebel gave the impulse to the introduction of a particular
form of the cult. In honour of his wife's god, the king, following the example of Solomon,
erected a temple to the Tyrian Baal (see above). This, however, did not prevent him from remaining
a follower of Yahweh, whose prophets he still consulted, and whose protection he still cherished
when he named his sons Ahaziah and Jehoram ("Yah[weh] holds," "Y. is high"). The antagonism
of Elijah was not against Baalism in general, but against the introduction of a rival deity.
But by the time of Hosea (ii. 16 seq.) a further advance was marked, and the use of the term
"Baal" was felt to be dangerous to true religion. Thus there gradually grew up a tendency to
avoid the term, and in accordance with the idea of Ex. xxiii. 13, it was replaced by the contemptuous
b[=o]sheth, "shame" (see above). However, the books of Deuteronomy and Jeremiah (cf. also Zeph.
i. 4) afford complete testimony for the prevalence of Baalism as late as the exile, but prove
that the clearest distinction was then drawn between the pure worship of Yahweh the god of
Israel and the inveterate and debased cults of the gods of the land. (See further HEBREW RELIGION;
PROPHET.)

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--W. Robertson Smith, Relig. Semites, 2nd ed. pp. 93-113 (against his theory of
the introduction of Baal among the Arabs see M. J. Lagrange, Études d. relig. sem. pp. 83-98).
For the reading "Baal" in the Amarna tablets (Palestine, about 1400 B.C.) see Knudtzon, Beitr.
z. Assyriol. (1901), pp. 320 seq., 415; other cuneiform evidence in E. Schrader's Keilinsch.
u. Alte Test. 3rd ed. p. 357 (by H. Zimmern; see also his Index, sub voce). On Baal-Shamem
(B. of the heavens) M. Lidzbarski's monograph (Ephemeris, i. 243-260, ii. 120) is invaluable,
and this work, with his Handbuch d. nordsemit. Epigraphik, contains full account of the epigraphical
material. See Baethgen, Beitr. z. semit. Religionsgesch. pp. 17-32; also the articles on Baal
by E. Meyer in Roscher's Lexikon, and G. F. Moore in Ency. Bib. (On Beltane fires and other
apparent points of connexion with Baal it may suffice to refer to Aug. Fick, Vergleich. Worterbuch,
who derives the element bel from an old Celtic root meaning shining, &c.)

(W. R. S.; S. A. C.)

[1] Cf. its use as a noun of relation e.g. a ba`al of hair, "a hairy man" (2 Kings i. 8), b.
of wings, "a winged creature," and in the plural, b. of arrows, "archers" (Gen. xlix. 23),
b. of oath, "conspirators" (Neh. vi. 18).

[2] Compounds with geographical terms (towns, mountains), e.g. Baal of Tyre, of Lebanon, &c.,
are frequent; see G. B. Gray, Heb. Proper Names, pp. 124-126. Baal-berith or El-berith of Shechem
(Judg. ix. 4, 46) is usually interpreted to be the Baal or God of the covenant, but whether
of covenants in general or of a particular covenant concluded at Shechem is disputed. The [Greek:
Balmarkôs] (near Beirut) apparently presided over dancing; another compound (in Cyprus) seems
to represent a Baal of healing. On the "Baal of flies" see BEELZEBUB.

[3] The general analogy shows itself further in the idea of the deity as the husband (ba`al)
of his worshippers or of the land in which they dwell. The Astarte of Gabal (Byblus) was regularly
known as the ba`alath (fem. of baal), her real name not being pronounced (perhaps out of reverence).

[4] See further Clermont-Ganneau, Pal. Explor. Fund Quart. Stat., 1901, pp. 239, 369 sqq.;
Büchler, Rev. d'études juives, 1901, pp. 125 seq.

[5] The extent to which elements of heathen cult entered into purer types of religion is illustrated
in the worship of Yahweh. The sacred cakes of Astarte and old holy wells associated with her
cult were later even transferred to the worship of the Virgin (Ency. Bib. col. 3993; Rouvier,
in Bull. Archéol., 1900, p. 170).

[6] The sanctuary of Heracles at Daphne near Antioch was properly that of the Semitic Baal,
and at Amathus Jupiter Hospes takes the place of Heracles or Malika, in which the Tyrian Melkart
is to be recognized (W. R. Smith, Rel. Sem. 2nd ed. pp. 178, 376). See further PHOENICIA.

BAALBEK (anc. Heliopolis), a town of the Buka`a (Coelesyria), altitude 3850 ft., situated E.
of the Litani and near the parting between its waters and those of the Asi. Pop. about 5000,
including 2000 Metawali and 1000 Christians (Maronite and Orthodox). Since 1902 Baalbek has
been connected by railway with Rayak (Rejak) on the Beirut-Damascus line, and since 1907 with
Aleppo. It is famous for its temple ruins of the Roman period, before which we have no record
of it, certain though it be that Heliopolis is a translation of an earlier native name, in
which Baal was an element. It has been suggested, but without good reason, that this name was
the Baalgad of Josh. xi. 17.

Heliopolis was made a colonia probably by Octavian (coins of 1st century A.D.), and there must
have been a Baal temple there in which Trajan consulted the oracle. The foundation of the present
buildings, however, dates from Antoninus Pius, and their dedication from Septimius Severus,
whose coins first show the two temples. The great courts of approach were not finished before
the reigns of Caracalla and Philip. In commemoration, no doubt, of the dedication of the new
sanctuaries, Severus conferred the jus Italicum on the city. The greater of the two temples
was sacred to Jupiter (Baal), identified with the Sun, with whom were associated Venus and
Mercury as [Greek: sumbômoi theoi]. The lesser temple was built in honour of Bacchus (not the
Sun, as formerly believed). Jupiter-Baal was represented locally as a beardless god in long
scaly drapery, holding a whip in his right hand and lightning and ears of corn in his left.
Two bulls supported him. In this guise he passed into European worship in the 3rd and 4th centuries
A.D. The extreme licence of the Heliopolitan worship is often animadverted upon by early Christian
writers, and Constantine, making an effort to curb the Venus cult, built a basilica. Theodosius
erected another, with western apse, in the main court of the Jupiter temple.

When Abu Ubaida (or Obaida) attacked the place after the Moslem capture of Damascus (A.D. 635),
it was still an opulent city and yielded a rich booty. It became a bone of contention between
the various Syrian dynasties and the caliphs first of Damascus, then of Egypt, and in 748 was
sacked with great slaughter. In 1090 it passed to the Seljuks, and in 1134 to Jenghiz Khan;
but after 1145 it remained attached to Damascus and was captured by Saladin in 1175. The Crusaders
raided its valley more than once, but never took the city. Three times shaken by earthquake
in the 12th century, it was dismantled by Hulagu in 1260. But it revived, and most of its fine
Moslem mosque and fortress architecture, still extant, belongs to the [v.03 p.0090] reign of
Sultan Kala[=u]n (1282) and the succeeding century, during which Abulfeda describes it as a
very strong place. In 1400 Timur pillaged it, and in 1517 it passed, with the rest of Syria,
to the Ottoman dominion. But Ottoman jurisdiction was merely nominal in the Lebanon district,
and Baalbek was really in the hands of the Metawali (see LEBANON), who retained it against
other Lebanon tribes, until "Jezzar" Pasha, the rebel governor of the Acre province, broke
their power in the last half of the 18th century. The anarchy which succeeded his death in
1804 was only ended by the Egyptian occupation (1832). With the treaty of London (1840) Baalbek
became really Ottoman, and since the settlement of the Lebanon (1864) has attracted great numbers
of tourists.

The ruins were brought to European notice by Pierre Belon in 1555, though previously visited,
in 1507, by Martin von Baumgarten. Much damaged by the earthquake of 1759, they remained a
wilderness of fallen blocks till 1901, when their clearance was undertaken by the German Archaeological
Institute and entrusted to the direction of Prof. O. Puchstein. They lie mainly on the ancient
Acropolis, which has been shored up with huge walls to form a terrace raised on vaults and
measuring about 1100 ft. from E. to W. The Propylaea lie at the E. end, and were approached
by a flight of steps now quarried away. These propylaea formed a covered hall, or vestibule,
about 35 ft. deep, flanked with towers richly decorated within and without (much damaged by
Arab reconstruction). Columns stood in front, whose bases still exist and bear the names of
Antoninus Pius and Julia Domna. Hence, through a triple gateway in a richly ornamented screen,
access is gained to the first or Hexagonal Court, which measures about 250 ft. from angle to
angle. It is now razed almost to foundation level; but it can be seen that it was flanked with
halls each having four columns in front. A portal on the W., 50 ft. wide, flanked by lesser
ones 10 ft. wide (that on the N. is alone preserved), admitted to the Main Court, in whose
centre was the High Altar of Burnt Sacrifice. This altar and a great tank on the N. were covered
by the foundations of Theodosius' basilica and not seen till the recent German clearance. The
Main Court measures about 440 ft. from E. to W. and 370 ft. from N. to S., thus covering about
3½ acres. It had a continuous fringe of covered halls of various dimensions and shapes, once
richly adorned with statues and columnar screens. Some of these halls are in fair preservation.
Stairs on the W. led up to the temple of Jupiter-Baal, now much ruined, having only 6 of the
54 columns of its peristyle erect. Three fell in the earthquake of 1759. Those still standing
are Nos. 11 to 16 in the southern rank. Their bases and shafts are not finished, though the
capitals and rich entablature seem completely worked. They have a height of 60 ft. and diameter
of 7½ ft., and are mostly formed of three blocks. The architrave is threefold and bears a frieze
with lion-heads, on which rest a moulding and cornice.

The temple of Bacchus stood on a platform of its own formed by a southern projection of the
Acropolis. It was much smaller than the Jupiter temple, but is better preserved. The steps
of the E. approach were intact up to 1688. The temple was peripteral with 46 columns in its
peristyle. These were over 52 ft. in height and of the Corinthian order, and supported an entablature
7 ft. high with double frieze, connected with the cella walls by a coffered ceiling, which
contained slabs with heads of gods and emperors. Richard Burton, when consul-general at Damascus
in 1870, cleared an Arab screen out of the vestibule, and in consequence the exquisite doorway
leading into the cella can now be well seen. On either side of it staircases constructed within
columns lead to the roof. The cracked door-lintel, which shows an eagle on the soffit, was
propped up first by Burton, and lately, more securely, by the Germans. The cella, now ruinous,
had inner wall-reliefs and engaged columns, which supported rich entablatures.

The vaults below the Great Court of the Jupiter Temple, together with the supporting walls
of the terrace, are noticeable. In the W. wall of the latter occur the three famous megaliths,
which gave the name Trilithon to the Jupiter temple in Byzantine times. These measure from
63 to 64 ft. in length and 13 ft. in height and breadth, and have been raised 20 ft. above
the ground. They are the largest blocks known to have been used in actual construction, but
are excelled by another block still attached to its bed in the quarries half a mile S.W. This
is 68 ft. long by 14 ft. high and weighs about 1500 tons. For long these blocks were supposed,
even by European visitors, to be relics of a primeval race of giant builders.

In the town, below the Acropolis, on the S.E. is a small temple of the late imperial age, consisting
of a semicircular cella with a peristyle of eight Corinthian columns, supporting a projecting
entablature. The cella is decorated without with a frieze, and within with pillars and arcading.
This temple owes its preservation to its use as a church of St Barbara, a local martyr, also
claimed by the Egyptian Heliopolis. Hence the building is known as Barbarat al-atika. Considerable
remains of the N. gate of the city have also been exposed.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.--These vast ruins, more imposing from their immensity than pleasing in detail,
have been described by scores of travellers and tourists; but it will be sufficient here to
refer to the following works:--(First discoverers) M. von Baumgarten, Peregrinatio in ... Syriam
(1594); P. Belon, De admirabili operum antiquorum praestantia (1553); and Observations, &c.
(1555). (Before earthquake of 1759) R. Wood, Ruins of Baalbec (1757). (Before excavation) H.
Frauberger, Die Akropolis von Baalbek (1892). (After excavation) O. Puchstein, Führer durch
die Ruinen v. Baalbek (1905), (with Th. v. Lüpke) Ansichten, &c. (1905). See also R. Phené
Spiers, Quart. Stat. Pal. Exp. Fund, 1904, pp. 58-64, and the Builder, 11 Feb. 1905.

(D. G. H.)

BAARN, a small town in the province of Utrecht, Holland, 5 m. by rail E. of Hilversum, at the
junction of a branch line to Utrecht. Like Hilversum it is situated in the midst of picturesque
and wooded surroundings, and is a favourite summer resort of people from Amsterdam. The Baarnsche
Bosch, or wood, stretches southward to Soestdyk, where there is a royal [v.03 p.0091] country-seat,
originally acquired by the state in 1795. Louis Bonaparte, king of Holland, who was very fond
of the spot, formed a zoological collection here which was removed to Amsterdam in 1809. In
1816 the estate was presented by the nation to the prince of Orange (afterwards King William
II.) in recognition of his services at the battle of Quatre Bras. Since then the palace and
grounds have been considerably enlarged and beautified. Close to Baarn in the south-west were
formerly situated the ancient castles of Drakenburg and Drakenstein, and at Vuursche there
is a remarkable dolmen.

BABADAG, or BABATAG, a town in the department of Tulcea, Rumania; situated on a small lake
formed by the river Taitza among the densely wooded highlands of the northern Dobrudja. Pop.
(1900) about 3500. The Taitza lake is divided only by a strip of marshland from Lake Razim,
a broad landlocked sheet of water which opens on the Black Sea. Babadag is a market for the
wool and mutton of the Dobrudja. It was founded by Bayezid I., sultan of the Turks from 1389
to 1403. It occasionally served as the winter headquarters of the Turks in their wars with
Russia, and was bombarded by the Russians in 1854.

BABBAGE, CHARLES (1792-1871), English mathematician and mechanician, was born on the 26th of
December 1792 at Teignmouth in Devonshire. He was educated at a private school, and afterwards
entered St Peter's College, Cambridge, where he graduated in 1814. Though he did not compete
in the mathematical tripos, he acquired a great reputation at the university. In the years
1815-1817 he contributed three papers on the "Calculus of Functions" to the Philosophical Transactions,
and in 1816 was made a fellow of the Royal Society. Along with Sir John Herschel and George
Peacock he laboured to raise the standard of mathematical instruction in England, and especially
endeavoured to supersede the Newtonian by the Leibnitzian notation in the infinitesimal calculus.
Babbage's attention seems to have been very early drawn to the number and importance of the
errors introduced into astronomical and other calculations through inaccuracies in the computation
of tables. He contributed to the Royal Society some notices on the relation between notation
and mechanism; and in 1822, in a letter to Sir H. Davy on the application of machinery to the
calculation and printing of mathematical tables, he discussed the principles of a calculating
engine, to the construction of which he devoted many years of his life. Government was induced
to grant its aid, and the inventor himself spent a portion of his private fortune in the prosecution
of his undertaking. He travelled through several of the countries of Europe, examining different
systems of machinery; and some of the results of his investigations were published in the admirable
little work, Economy of Machines and Manufactures (1834). The great calculating engine was
never completed; the constructor apparently desired to adopt a new principle when the first
specimen was nearly complete, to make it not a difference but an analytical engine, and the
government declined to accept the further risk (see CALCULATING MACHINES). From 1828 to 1839
Babbage was Lucasian professor of mathematics at Cambridge. He contributed largely to several
scientific periodicals, and was instrumental in founding the Astronomical (1820) and Statistical
(1834) Societies. He only once endeavoured to enter public life, when, in 1832, he stood unsuccessfully
for the borough of Finsbury. During the later years of his life he resided in London, devoting
himself to the construction of machines capable of performing arithmetical and even algebraical
calculations. He died at London on the 18th of October 1871. He gives a few biographical details
in his Passages from the Life of a Philosopher (1864), a work which throws considerable light
upon his somewhat peculiar character. His works, pamphlets and papers were very numerous; in
the Passages he enumerates eighty separate writings. Of these the most important, besides the
few already mentioned, are Tables of Logarithms (1826); Comparative View of the Various Institutions
for the Assurance of Lives (1826); Decline of Science in England (1830); Ninth Bridgewater
Treatise (1837); The Exposition of 1851 (1851).

See Monthly Notices, Royal Astronomical Society, vol. 32.

BABEL, the native name of the city called Babylon (q.v.) by the Greeks, the modern Hillah.
It means "gate of the god," not "gate of the gods," corresponding to the Assyrian B[=a]b-ili.
According to Gen. xi 1-9 (J), mankind, after the deluge, travelled from the mountain of the
East, where the ark had rested, and settled in Shinar. Here they attempted to build a city
and a tower whose top might reach unto heaven, but were miraculously prevented by their language
being confounded. In this way the diversity of human speech and the dispersion of mankind were
accounted for; and in Gen. xi. 9 (J) an etymology was found for the name of Babylon in the
Hebrew verb b[=a]lal, "to confuse or confound," Babel being regarded as a contraction of Balbel.
In Gen. x. 10 it is said to have formed part of the kingdom of Nimrod.

The origin of the story has not been found in Babylonia. The tower was no doubt suggested by
one of the temple towers of Babylon. W. A. Bennet (Genesis, p. 169; cf. Hommel in Hastings'
Dictionary of the Bible) suggests E-Saggila, the great temple of Merodach (Marduk). The variety
of languages and the dispersion of mankind were regarded as a curse, and it is probable that,
as Prof. Cheyne (Encyclopaedia Biblica, col. 411) says, there was an ancient North Semitic
myth to explain it. The event was afterwards localized in Babylon. The myth, as it appears
in Genesis, is quite polytheistic and anthropomorphic. According to Cornelius Alexander (frag.
10) and Abydenus (frags. 5 and 6) the tower was overthrown by the winds; according to Yaqut
(i. 448 f.) and the Lisan el-`Arab (xiii. 72) mankind were swept together by winds into the
plain afterwards called "Babil," and were scattered again in the same way (see further D. B.
Macdonald in the Jewish Encyclopaedia). A tradition similar to that of the tower of Babel is
found in Central America. Xelhua, one of the seven giants rescued from the deluge, built the
great pyramid of Cholula in order to storm heaven. The gods, however, destroyed it with fire
and confounded the language of the builders. Traces of a somewhat similar story have also been
met with among the Mongolian Tharus in northern India (Report of the Census of Bengal, 1872,
p. 160), and, according to Dr Livingstone, among the Africans of Lake Ngami. The Esthonian
myth of "the Cooking of Languages" (Kohl, Reisen in die Ostseeprovinzen, ii. 251-255) may also
be compared, as well as the Australian legend of the origin of the diversity of speech (Gerstäcker,
Reisen, vol. iv. pp. 381 seq.).

BAB-EL-MANDEB (Arab, for "The Gate of Tears"), the strait between Arabia and Africa which connects
the Red Sea (q.v.) with the Indian Ocean. It derives its name from the dangers attending its
navigation, or, according to an Arabic legend, from the numbers who were drowned by the earthquake
which separated Asia and Africa. The distance across is about 20 m. from Ras Menheli on the
Arabian coast to Ras Siyan on the African. The island of Perim (q.v.), a British possession,
divides the strait into two channels, of which the eastern, known as the Bab Iskender (Alexander's
Strait), is 2 m. wide and 16 fathoms deep, while the western, or Dact-el-Mayun, has a width
of about 16 m. and a depth of 170 fathoms. Near the African coast lies a group of smaller islands
known as the "Seven Brothers." There is a surface current inwards in the eastern channel, but
a strong under-current outwards in the western channel.

BABENBERG, the name of a Franconian family which held the duchy of Austria before the rise
of the house of Habsburg. Its earliest known ancestor was one Poppo, who early in the 9th century
was count in Grapfeld. One of his sons, Henry, called margrave and duke in Franconia, fell
fighting against the Normans in 886; another, Poppo, was margrave in Thuringia from 880 to
892, when he was deposed by the German king Arnulf. The family had been favoured by the emperor
Charles the Fat, but Arnulf reversed this policy in favour of the rival family of the Conradines.
The leaders of the Babenbergs were the three sons of Duke Henry, who called themselves after
their castle of Babenberg on the upper Main, round which their possessions centred. The rivalry
between the two families was intensified by their efforts to extend their authority in the
region of the middle Main, and this quarrel, known as the "Babenberg feud," came to a head
at the beginning of the 10th century during the [v.03 p.0092] troubled reign of the German
king, Louis the Child. Two of the Babenberg brothers were killed, and the survivor Adalbert
was summoned before the imperial court by the regent Hatto I., archbishop of Mainz, a partisan
of the Conradines. He refused to appear, held his own for a time in his castle at Theres against
the king's forces, but surrendered in 906, and in spite of a promise of safe-conduct was beheaded.
From this time the Babenbergs lost their influence in Franconia; but in 976 Leopold, a member
of the family who was a count in the Donnegau, is described as margrave of the East Mark, a
district not more than 60 m. in breadth on the eastern frontier of Bavaria which grew into
the duchy of Austria. Leopold, who probably received the mark as a reward for his fidelity
to the emperor Otto II. during the Bavarian rising in 976, extended its area at the expense
of the Hungarians, and was succeeded in 994 by his son Henry I. Henry, who continued his father's
policy, was followed in 1018 by his brother Adalbert and in 1055 by his nephew Ernest, whose
marked loyalty to the emperors Henry III. and Henry IV. was rewarded by many tokens of favour.
The succeeding margrave, Leopold II., quarrelled with Henry IV., who was unable to oust him
from the mark or to prevent the succession of his son Leopold III. in 1096. Leopold supported
Henry, son of Henry IV., in his rising against his father, but was soon drawn over to the emperor's
side, and in 1106 married his daughter Agnes, widow of Frederick I., duke of Swabia. He declined
the imperial crown in 1125. His zeal in founding monasteries earned for him his surname "the
Pious," and canonization by Pope Innocent VIII. in 1485. He is regarded as the patron saint
of Austria. One of Leopold's sons was Otto, bishop of Freising (q.v.). His eldest son, Leopold
IV., became margrave in 1136, and in 1139 received from the German king Conrad III. the duchy
of Bavaria, which had been forfeited by Duke Henry the Proud. Leopold's brother Henry (surnamed
Jasomirgott from his favourite oath, "So help me God!") was made count palatine of the Rhine
in 1140, and became margrave of Austria on Leopold's death in 1141. Having married Gertrude,
the widow of Henry the Proud, he was invested in 1143 with the duchy of Bavaria, and resigned
his office as count palatine. In 1147 he went on crusade, and after his return renounced Bavaria
at the instance of the new king Frederick I. As compensation for this, Austria, the capital
of which had been transferred to Vienna in 1146, was erected into a duchy. The second duke
was Henry's son Leopold I., who succeeded him in 1177 and took part in the crusades of 1182
and 1190. In Palestine he quarrelled with Richard I., king of England, captured him on his
homeward journey and handed him over to the emperor Henry VI. Leopold increased the territories
of the Babenbergs by acquiring Styria in 1192 under the will of his kinsman Duke Ottakar IV.
He died in 1194, and Austria fell to one son, Frederick, and Styria to another, Leopold; but
on Frederick's death in 1198 they were again united by Duke Leopold II., surnamed "the Glorious."
The new duke fought against the infidel in Spain, Egypt and Palestine, but is more celebrated
as a lawgiver, a patron of letters and a founder of towns. Under him Vienna became the centre
of culture in Germany and the great school of Minnesingers (q.v.). His later years were spent
in strife with his son Frederick, and he died in 1230 at San Germano, whither he had gone to
arrange the peace between the emperor Frederick II. and Pope Gregory IX. His son Frederick
II. followed as duke, and earned the name of "Quarrelsome" by constant struggles with the kings
of Hungary and Bohemia and with the emperor. He deprived his mother and sisters of their possessions,
was hated by his subjects on account of his oppressions, and in 1236 was placed under the imperial
ban and driven from Austria. Restored when the emperor was excommunicated, he treated in vain
with Frederick for the erection of Austria into a kingdom. He was killed in battle in 1246,
when the male line of the Babenbergs became extinct. The city of Bamberg grew up around the
ancestral castle of the family.

See G. Juritsch, Geschichte der Babenberger und ihrer Länder (Innsbruck, 1894); M. Schmitz,
Oesterreichs Scheyern-Wittelsbacher oder die Dynastie der Babenberger (Munich, 1880).

BABER, or BABAR (1483-1530), a famous conqueror of India and founder of the so-called Mogul
dynasty. His name was Zahir ud-din-Mahomet, and he was given the surname of Baber, meaning
the tiger. Born on the 14th of February 1483, he was a descendant of Timur, and his father,
Omar Sheik, was king of Ferghana, a district of what is now Russian Turkestan. Omar died in
1495, and Baber, though only twelve years of age, succeeded to the throne. An attempt made
by his uncles to dislodge him proved unsuccessful, and no sooner was the young sovereign firmly
settled than he began to meditate an extension of his own dominions. In 1497 he attacked and
gained possession of Samarkand, to which he always seems to have thought he had a natural and
hereditary right. A rebellion among his nobles robbed him of his native kingdom, and while
marching to recover it his troops deserted him, and he lost Samarkand also. After some reverses
he regained both these places, but in 1501 his most formidable enemy, Shaibani (Sheibani) Khan,
ruler of the Uzbegs, defeated him in a great engagement and drove him from Samarkand. For three
years he wandered about trying in vain to recover his lost possessions; at last, in 1504, he
gathered some troops, and crossing the snowy Hindu Kush besieged and captured the strong city
of Kabul. By this dexterous stroke he gained a new and wealthy kingdom, and completely re-established
his fortunes. In the following year he united with Hussain Mirza of Herat against Shaibani.
The death of Hussain put a stop to this expedition, but Baber spent a year at Herat, enjoying
the pleasures of that capital. He returned to Kabul in time to quell a formidable rebellion,
but two years later a revolt among some of the leading Moguls drove him from his city. He was
compelled to take to flight with very few companions, but his great personal courage and daring
struck the army of his opponents with such dismay that they again returned to their allegiance
and Baber regained his kingdom. Once again, in 1510, after the death of Shaibani, he endeavoured
to obtain possession of his native country. He received considerable aid from Shah Ismael of
Persia, and in 1511 made a triumphal entry into Samarkand. But in 1514 he was utterly defeated
by the Uzbegs and with difficulty reached Kabul. He seems now to have resigned all hopes of
recovering Ferghana, and as he at the same time dreaded an invasion of the Uzbegs from the
west, his attention was more and more drawn towards India. Several preliminary incursions had
been already made, when in 1521 an opportunity presented itself for a more extended expedition.
Ibrahim, emperor of Delhi, had made himself detested, even by his Afghan nobles, several of
whom called upon Baber for assistance. He at once assembled his forces, 12,000 strong, with
some pieces of artillery and marched into India. Ibrahim, with 100,000 soldiers and numerous
elephants, advanced against him. The great battle was fought at Panipat on the 21st of April
1526, when Ibrahim was slain and his army routed. Baber at once took possession of Agra. A
still more formidable enemy awaited him; the Rana Sanga of Mewar collected the enormous force
of 210,000 men, with which he moved against the invaders. On all sides there was danger and
revolt, even Baber's own soldiers, worn out with the heat of this new climate, longed for Kabul.
By vigorous measures and inspiriting speeches he restored their courage, though his own heart
was nearly failing him, and in his distress he abjured the use of wine, to which he had been
addicted. At Kanwaha, on the 10th of March 1527, he won a great victory and made himself absolute
master of northern India. The remaining years of his life he spent in arranging the affairs
and revenues of his new empire and in improving his capital, Agra. He died on the 26th of December
1530 in his forty-eighth year. Baber was above the middle height, of great strength and an
admirable archer and swordsman. His mind was as well cultivated as his bodily powers; he wrote
well, and his observations are generally acute and accurate; he was brave, kindly and generous.

Full materials for his life are found in his Memoirs, written by himself (translated into English
by Leyden and Erskine (London, 1826); abridged in Caldecott, Life of Baber (London, 1844).
See also Lane-Poole, Baber (Rulers of India Series), 1899.

[v.03 p.0093] BABEUF, FRANÇOIS NOEL (1760-1797), known as GRACCHUS BABEUF, French political
agitator and journalist, was born at Saint Quentin on the 23rd of November 1760. His father,
Claude Babeuf, had deserted the French army in 1738 and taken service under Maria Theresa,
rising, it is said, to the rank of major. Amnestied in 1755 he returned to France, but soon
sank into dire poverty, being forced to earn a pittance for his wife and family as a day labourer.
The hardships endured by Babeuf during early years do much to explain his later opinions. He
had received from his father the smatterings of a liberal education, but until the outbreak
of the Revolution he was a domestic servant, and from 1785 occupied the invidious office of
commissaire à terrier, his function being to assist the nobles and priests in the assertion
of their feudal rights as against the unfortunate peasants. On the eve of the Revolution Babeuf
was in the employ of a land surveyor at Roye. His father had died in 1780, and he was now the
sole support, not only of his wife and two children, but of his mother, brothers and sisters.
In the circumstances it is not surprising that he was the life and soul of the malcontents
of the place. He was an indefatigable writer, and the first germ of his future socialism is
contained in a letter of the 21st of March 1787, one of a series--mainly on literature--addressed
to the secretary of the Academy of Arras. In 1789 he drew up the first article of the cahier
of the electors of the bailliage of Roye, demanding the abolition of feudal rights. Then, from
July to October, he was in Paris superintending the publication of his first work: Cadastre
perpétuel, dédié à l'assemblée nationale, l'an 1789 et le premier de la liberté française,
which was written in 1787 and issued in 1790. The same year he published a pamphlet against
feudal aids and the gabelle, for which he was denounced and arrested, but provisionally released.
In October, on his return to Roye, he founded the Correspondant picard, the violent character
of which cost him another arrest. In November he was elected a member of the municipality of
Roye, but was expelled. In March 1791 he was appointed commissioner to report on the national
property (biens nationaux) in the town, and in September 1792 was elected a member of the council-general
of the department of the Somme. Here, as everywhere, the violence of his attitude made his
position intolerable to himself and others, and he was soon transferred to the post of administrator
of the district of Montdidier. Here he was accused of fraud for having substituted one name
for another in a deed of transfer of national lands. It is probable that his fault was one
of negligence only; but, distrusting the impartiality of the judges of the Somme, he fled to
Paris, and on the 23rd of August 1793 was condemned in contumaciam to twenty years' imprisonment.
Meanwhile he had been appointed secretary to the relief committee (comité des subsistances)
of the commune of Paris. The judges of Amiens, however, pursued him with a warrant for his
arrest, which took place in Brumaire of the year II. (1794). The court of cassation quashed
the sentence, through defect of form, but sent Babeuf for a new trial before the Aisne tribunal,
by which he was acquitted on the 18th of July.

Babeuf now returned to Paris, and on the 3rd of September 1794 published the first number of
his Journal de la liberté de la presse, the title of which was altered on the 5th of October
to Le Tribun du peuple. The execution of Robespierre on the 28th of July had ended the Terror,
and Babeuf--now self-styled "Gracchus" Babeuf--defended the men of Thermidor and attacked the
fallen terrorists with his usual violence. But he also attacked, from the point of view of
his own socialistic theories, the economic outcome of the Revolution. This was an attitude
which had few supporters, even in the Jacobin club, and in October Babeuf was arrested and
sent to prison at Arras. Here he came under the influence of certain terrorist prisoners, notably
of Lebois, editor of the Journal de l'égalité, afterwards of the Ami du peuple, papers which
carried on the traditions of Marat. He emerged from prison a confirmed terrorist and convinced
that his Utopia, fully proclaimed to the world in No. 33 of his Tribun, could only be realized
through the restoration of the constitution of 1793. He was now in open conflict with the whole
trend of public opinion. In February 1795 he was again arrested, and the Tribun du peuple was
solemnly burnt in the Théâtre des Bergères by the jeunesse dorée, the young men whose mission
it was to bludgeon Jacobinism out of the streets and cafés. But for the appalling economic
conditions produced by the fall in the value of assignats, Babeuf might have shared the fate
of other agitators who were whipped into obscurity.

It was the attempts of the Directory to deal with this economic crisis that gave Babeuf his
real historic importance. The new government was pledged to abolish the vicious system by which
Paris was fed at the expense of all France, and the cessation of the distribution of bread
and meat at nominal prices was fixed for the 20th of February 1796. The announcement caused
the most wide-spread consternation. Not only the workmen and the large class of idlers attracted
to Paris by the system, but rentiers and government officials, whose incomes were paid in assignats
on a scale arbitrarily fixed by the government, saw themselves threatened with actual starvation.
The government yielded to the outcry that arose; but the expedients by which it sought to mitigate
the evil, notably the division of those entitled to relief into classes, only increased the
alarm and the discontent. The universal misery gave point to the virulent attacks of Babeuf
on the existing order, and at last gained him a hearing. He gathered round him a small circle
of his immediate followers known as the Société des Égaux, soon merged with the rump of the
Jacobins, who met at the Pantheon; and in November 1795 he was reported by the police to be
openly preaching "insurrection, revolt and the constitution of 1793."

For a time the government, while keeping itself informed of his activities, left him alone;
for it suited the Directory to let the socialist agitation continue, in order to frighten the
people from joining in any royalist movement for the overthrow of the existing regime. Moreover
the mass of the ouvriers, even of extreme views, were repelled by Babeuf's bloodthirstiness;
and the police agents reported that his agitation was making many converts--for the government.
The Jacobin club of the Faubourg Saint-Antoine refused to admit Babeuf and Lebois, on the ground
that they were "égorgeurs." With the development of the economic crisis, however, Babeuf's
influence increased. After the club of the Pantheon was closed by Bonaparte, on the 27th of
February 1796, his aggressive activity redoubled. In Ventôse and Germinal he published, under
the nom de plume of "Lalande, soldat de la patrie," a new paper, the Éclaireur du peuple, ou
le défenseur de vingt-cinq millions d'opprimés, which was hawked clandestinely from group to
group in the streets of Paris. At the same time No. 40 of the Tribun excited an immense sensation.
In this he praised the authors of the September massacres as "deserving well of their country,"
and declared that a more complete "September 2nd" was needed to annihilate the actual government,
which consisted of "starvers, bloodsuckers, tyrants, hangmen, rogues and mountebanks." The
distress among all classes continued to be appalling; and in March the attempt of the Directory
to replace the assignats (q.v.) by a new issue of mandats created fresh dissatisfaction after
the breakdown of the hopes first raised. A cry went up that national bankruptcy had been declared,
and thousands of the lower class of ouvrier began to rally to Babeuf's flag. On the 4th of
April it was reported to the government that 500,000 people in Paris were in need of relief.
From the 11th Paris was placarded with posters headed Analyse de la doctrine de Baboeuf (sic),
tribun du peuple, of which the opening sentence ran: "Nature has given to every man the right
to the enjoyment of an equal share in all property," and which ended with a call to restore
the constitution of 1793. Babeuf's song Mourant de faim, mourant de froid (Dying of hunger,
dying of cold), set to a popular air, began to be sung in the cafés, with immense applause;
and reports were current that the disaffected troops in the camp of Grenelle were ready to
join an émeute against the government. The Directory thought it time to act; the bureau central
had accumulated through its agents, notably the ex-captain Georges [v.03 p.0094] Grisel, who
had been initiated into Babeuf's society, complete evidence of a conspiracy for an armed rising
fixed for Floréal 22, year IV. (11th of May 1796), in which Jacobins and socialists were combined.
On the 10th of May Babeuf was arrested with many of his associates, among whom were A. Darthé
and P. M. Buonarroti, the ex-members of the Convention, Robert Lindet, J. A. B. Amar, M. G.
A. Vadier and Jean Baptiste Drouet, famous as the postmaster of Saint-Menehould who had arrested
Louis XVI., and now a member of the Council of Five Hundred.

The coup was perfectly successful. The last number of the Tribun appeared on the 24th of April,
but Lebois in the Ami du peuple tried to incite the soldiers to revolt, and for a while there
were rumours of a military rising. The trial of Babeuf and his accomplices was fixed to take
place before the newly constituted high court of justice at Vendôme. On Fructidor 10 and 11
(27th and 28th of August), when the prisoners were removed from Paris, there were tentative
efforts at a riot with a view to rescue, but these were easily suppressed. The attempt of five
or six hundred Jacobins (7th of September) to rouse the soldiers at Grenelle met with no better
success. The trial of Babeuf and the others, begun at Vendôme on the 20th of February 1797,
lasted two months. The government for reasons of their own made the socialist Babeuf the leader
of the conspiracy, though more important people than he were implicated; and his own vanity
played admirably into their hands. On Prairial 7 (26th of April 1797) Babeuf and Darthé were
condemned to death; some of the prisoners, including Buonarroti, were exiled; the rest, including
Vadier and his fellow-conventionals, were acquitted. Drouet had succeeded in making his escape,
according to Barras, with the connivance of the Directory. Babeuf and Darthé were executed
at Vendôme on Prairial 8 (1797).

Babeuf's character has perhaps been sufficiently indicated above. He was a type of the French
revolutionists, excitable, warm-hearted, half-educated, who lost their mental and moral balance
in the chaos of the revolutionary period. Historically, his importance lies in the fact that
he was the first to propound socialism as a practical policy, and the father of the movements
which played so conspicuous a part in the revolutions of 1848 and 1871.

See V. Advielle, Hist. de Gracchus Babeuf et de Babouvisme (2 vols., Paris, 1884); P. M. Buonarroti,
Conspiration pour l'égalité, dite de Babeuf (2 vols., Brussels, 1828; later editions, 1850
and 1869), English translation by Bronterre O'Brien (London, 1836); Cambridge Modern History,
vol. viii.; Adolf Schmidt, Pariser Zustände wahrend der Revolutionszeit von 1789-1800 (Jena,
1874). French trans. by P. Viollet, Paris pendant la Révolution d'après les rapports de la
police secrète, 1789-1800 (4 vols., 1880-1894); A. Schmidt, Tableaux de la Révolution française,
&c. (Leipzig, 1867-1870), a collection of reports of the secret police on which the above work
is based. A full report of the trial at Vendôme was published in four volumes at Paris in 1797,
Débats du procès, &c.

(W. A. P.)

BÁBÍISM, the religion founded in Persia in A.D. 1844-1845 by Mírzá `Alí Muhammad of Shíráz,
a young Sayyid who was at that time not twenty-five years of age. Before his "manifestation"
(zuhúr), of which he gives in the Persian Bayán a date corresponding to 23rd May 1844, he was
a disciple of Sayyid Kázim of Rasht, the leader of the Shaykhís, a sect of extreme Shí`ites
characterized by the doctrine (called by them Rukn-i-rábi`, "the fourth support") that at all
times there must exist an intermediary between the twelfth Imám and his faithful followers.
This intermediary they called "the perfect Shí`ite," and his prototype is to be found in the
four successive Bábs or "gates" through whom alone the twelfth Imám, during the period of his
"minor occultation" (Ghaybat-i-sughrá, A.D. 874-940), held communication with his partisans.
It was in this sense, and not, as has been often asserted, in the sense of "Gate of God" or
"Gate of Religion," that the title Báb was understood and assumed by Mírzá `Alí Muhammad; but,
though still generally thus styled by non-Bábís, he soon assumed the higher title of Nuqta
("Point"), and the title Báb, thus left vacant, was conferred on his ardent disciple, Mullá
Husayn of Bushrawayh.

The history of the Bábís, though covering a comparatively short period, is so full of incident
and the particulars now available are so numerous, that the following account purports to be
only the briefest sketch. The Báb himself was in captivity first at Shíráz, then at Mákú, and
lastly at Chihríq, during the greater part of the six years (May 1844 until July 1850) of his
brief career, but an active propaganda was carried on by his disciples, which resulted in several
serious revolts against the government, especially after the death of Muhammad Sháh in September
1848. Of these risings the first (December 1848-July 1849) took place in Mázandarán, at the
ruined shrine of Shaykh Tabarsí, near Bárfurúsh, where the Bábís, led by Mullá Muhammad `Alí
of Bárfurúsh and Mullá Husayn of Bushrawayh ("the first who believed"), defied the shah's troops
for seven months before they were finally subdued and put to death. The revolt at Zanján in
the north-west of Persia, headed by Mullá Muhammad `Ali Zanjání, also lasted seven or eight
months (May-December 1850), while a serious but less protracted struggle was waged against
the government at Níríz in Fárs by Agá Sayyid Yahyá of Níríz. Both revolts were in progress
when the Báb, with one of his devoted disciples, was brought from his prison at Chihríq to
Tabríz and publicly shot in front of the arg or citadel. The body, after being exposed for
some days, was recovered by the Bábís and conveyed to a shrine near Tehrán, whence it was ultimately
removed to Acre in Syria, where it is now buried. For the next two years comparatively little
was heard of the Bábís, but on the 15th of August 1852 three of them, acting on their own initiative,
attempted to assassinate Násiru'd-Dín Sháh as he was returning from the chase to his palace
at Niyávarán. The attempt failed, but was the cause of a fresh persecution, and on the 31st
of August 1852 some thirty Bábís, including the beautiful and talented poetess Qurratu'l-'Ayn,
were put to death in Tehrán with atrocious cruelty. Another of the victims of that day was
Hájji Mírzá Jání of Káshán, the author of the oldest history of the movement from the Bábí
point of view. Only one complete MS. of his invaluable work (obtained by Count Gobineau in
Persia) exists in any public library, the Bibliothèque Nationale at Paris. The so-called "New
History" (of which an English translation was published at Cambridge in 1893 by E. G. Browne)
is based on Mírzá Jání's work, but many important passages which did not accord with later
Bábí doctrine or policy have been suppressed or modified, while some additions have been made.
The Báb was succeeded on his death by Mírzá Yahyá of Núr (at that time only about twenty years
of age), who escaped to Bagdad, and, under the title of Subh-i-Ezel ("the Morning of Eternity"),
became the pontiff of the sect. He lived, however, in great seclusion, leaving the direction
of affairs almost entirely in the hands of his elder half-brother (born 12th November 1817),
Mírzá Husayn `Alí, entitled Bahá' u'lláh ("the Splendour of God"), who thus gradually became
the most conspicuous and most influential member of the sect, though in the Iqán, one of the
most important polemical works of the Bábís, composed in 1858-1859, he still implicitly recognized
the supremacy of Subh-i-Ezel. In 1863, however, Bahá declared himself to be "He whom God shall
manifest" (Man Yuz-hiruhu'lláh, with prophecies of whose advent the works of the Báb are filled),
and called on all the Bábís to recognize his claim. The majority responded, but Subh-i-Ezel
and some of his faithful adherents refused. After that date the Bábís divided into two sects,
Ezelís and Bahá'ís, of which the former steadily lost and the latter gained ground, so that
in 1908 there were probably from half a million to a million of the latter, and at most only
a hundred or two of the former. In 1863 the Bábís were, at the instance of the Persian government,
removed from Bagdad to Constantinople, whence they were shortly afterwards transferred to Adrianople.
In 1868 Bahá and his followers were exiled to Acre in Syria, and Subh-i-Ezel with his few adherents
to Famagusta in Cyprus, where he was still living in 1908. Bahá'u'lláh died at Acre on the
16th of May 1892. His son `Abbás Efendí (also called `Abdu'l-Bahá, "the servant of Bahá") was
generally recognized as his successor, but another of his four sons, Muhammad `Alí, put forward
a rival claim. This caused a fresh and bitter schism, but `Abbás Efendí steadily gained ground,
and there could be little doubt as to his eventual [v.03 p.0095] triumph. The controversial
literature connected with this latest schism is abundant, not only in Persian, but in English,
for since 1900 many Americans have adopted the religion of Bahá. The original apostle of America
was Ibráhím George Khayru'lláh, who began his propaganda at the Chicago Exhibition and later
supported the claims of Muhammad `Alí. Several Persian missionaries, including the aged and
learned Mírzá Abu'l-Fazl of Gulpáyagán, were thereupon despatched to America by `Abbás Efendí,
who was generally accepted by the American Bahá'ís as "the Master." The American press contained
many notices of the propaganda and its success. An interesting article on the subject, by Stoyan
Krstoff Vatralsky of Boston, Mass., entitled "Mohammedan Gnosticism in America," appeared in
the American Journal of Theology for January 1902, pp. 57-58.

A correct understanding of the doctrines of the early Bábís (now represented by the Ezelís)
is hardly possible save to one who is conversant with the theology of Islám and its developments,
and especially the tenets of the Shí`a. The Bábís are Muhammadans only in the sense that the
Muhammadans are Christians or the Christians Jews; that is to say, they recognize Muhammad
(Mahomet) as a true prophet and the Qur'án (Koran) as a revelation, but deny their finality.
Revelation, according to their view, is progressive, and no revelation is final, for, as the
human race progresses, a fuller measure of truth, and ordinances more suitable to the age,
are vouchsafed. The Divine Unity is incomprehensible, and can be known only through its Manifestations;
to recognize the Manifestation of the cycle in which he lives is the supreme duty of man. Owing
to the enormous volume and unsystematic character of the Bábí scriptures, and the absence of
anything resembling church councils, the doctrine on many important points (such as the future
life) is undetermined and vague. The resurrection of the body is denied, but some form of personal
immortality is generally, though not universally, accepted. Great importance was attached to
the mystical values of letters and numbers, especially the numbers 18 and 19 ("the number of
the unity") and 19² = 361 ("the number of all things"). In general, the Báb's doctrines most
closely resembled those of the Isma`ílís and Hurúfís. In the hands of Bahá the aims of the
sect became much more practical and ethical, and the wilder pantheistic tendencies and metaphysical
hair-splittings of the early Bábís almost disappeared. The intelligence, integrity and morality
of the Bábís are high, but their efforts to improve the social position of woman have been
much exaggerated. They were in no way concerned (as was at the time falsely alleged) in the
assassination of Násiru'd-Dín Sháh in May 1896. Of recent persecutions of the sect the two
most notable took place at Yazd, one in May 1891, and another of greater ferocity in June 1903.
Some account of the latter is given by Napier Malcolm in his book Five Years in a Persian Town
(London, 1905), pp. 87-89 and 186. In the constitutional movement in Persia (1907) the Bábís,
though their sympathies are undoubtedly with the reformers, wisely refrained from outwardly
identifying themselves with that party, to whom their open support, by alienating the orthodox
mujtahids and mullás, would have proved fatal. Here, as in all their actions, they clearly
obeyed orders issued from headquarters.

LITERATURE.--The literature of the sect is very voluminous, but mostly in manuscript. The most
valuable public collections in Europe are at St Petersburg, London (British Museum) and Paris
(Bibliothèque Nationale), where two or three very rare MSS. collected by Gobineau, including
the precious history of the Báb's contemporary, Hájji Mírzá Jání of Káshán, are preserved.
For the bibliography up to 1889, see vol. ii. pp. 173-211 of the Traveller's Narrative, written
to illustrate the Episode of the Báb, a Persian work composed by Bahá's son, `Abbás Efendí,
edited, translated and annotated by E. G. Browne (Cambridge, 1891). More recent works are:--Browne,
The New History of the Báb (Cambridge, 1893); and "Catalogue and Description of the 27 Bábí
Manuscripts," Journal of R. Asiat. Soc. (July and October 1892); Andreas, Die Bábí's in Persien
(1896); Baron Victor Rosen, Collections scientifiques de l'Institut des Langues orientales,
vol. i. (1877), pp. 179-212; vol. iii. (1886), pp. 1-51; vol. vi. (1891), pp. 141-255; "Manuscrits
Bâbys"; and other important articles in Russian by the same scholar; and by Captain A. G. Toumansky
in the Zapiski vostochnava otdyèleniya Imperatorskava Russkava Archeologicheskava Obshchestva
(vols. iv.-xii., St Petersburg, 1890-1900); also an excellent edition by Toumansky, with Russian
translation, notes and introduction, of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (the most important of Bahá's works),
&c. (St Petersburg, 1899). Mention should also be made of an Arabic history of the Bábís (unsympathetic
but well-informed) written by a Persian, Mírzá Muhammad Mahdí Khan, Za`imu'd-Duwla, printed
in Cairo in A.H. 1321 (= A.D. 1903-1904). Of the works composed in English for the American
converts the most important are:--Bahá'u'lláh (The Glory of God), by Ibráhím Khayru'lláh, assisted
by Howard MacNutt (Chicago, 1900); The Three Questions (n.d.) and Facts for Baháists (1901),
by the same; Life and Teachings of `Abbás Efendí, by Myron H. Phelps, with preface by E. G.
Browne (New York, 1903); Isabella Brittingham, The Revelations of Bahá'u'lláh, in a Sequence
of Four Lessons (1902); Laura Clifford Burney, Some Answered Questions Collected [in Acre,
1904-1906] and Translated from the Persian of `Abdu'l-Bahá [i.e. `Abbás Efendí] (London, 1908).
In French, A. L. M. Nicolas (first dragoman at the French legation at Tehrán) has published
several important translations, viz. Le Livre des sept preuves de la mission du Báb (Paris,
1902); Le Livre de la certitude (1904); and Le Beyân arabe (1905); and there are other notable
works by H. Dreyfus, an adherent of the Bábí faith. Lastly, mention should be made of a remarkable
but scarce little tract by Gabriel Sacy, printed at Cairo in June 1902, and entitled Du règne
de Dieu et de l'Agneau, connu sous le nom de Babysme.

(E. G. B.)

BABINGTON, ANTHONY (1561-1586), English conspirator, son of Henry Babington of Dethick in Derbyshire,
and of Mary, daughter of George, Lord Darcy, was born in October 1561, and was brought up secretly
a Roman Catholic. As a youth he served at Sheffield as page to Mary queen of Scots, for whom
he early felt an ardent devotion. In 1580 he came to London, attended the court of Elizabeth,
and joined the secret society formed that year supporting the Jesuit missionaries. In 1582
after the execution of Father Campion he withdrew to Dethick, and attaining his majority occupied
himself for a short time with the management of his estates. Later he went abroad and became
associated at Paris with Mary's supporters who were planning her release with the help of Spain,
and on his return he was entrusted with letters for her. In April 1586 he became, with the
priest John Ballard, leader of a plot to murder Elizabeth and her ministers, and organize a
general Roman Catholic rising in England and liberate Mary. The conspiracy was regarded by
Mendoza, the Spanish ambassador, one of its chief instigators, and also by Walsingham, as the
most dangerous of recent years; it included, in its general purpose of destroying the government,
a large number of Roman Catholics, and had ramifications all over the country. Philip II. of
Spain, who ardently desired the success of an enterprise "so Christian, just and advantageous
to the holy Catholic faith,"[1] promised to assist with an expedition directly the assassination
of the queen was effected. Babington's conduct was marked by open folly and vanity. Desirous
of some token of appreciation from Mary for his services, he entered into a long correspondence
with her, which was intercepted by the spies of Walsingham. On the 4th of August Ballard was
seized and betrayed his comrades, probably under torture. Babington then applied for a passport
abroad, for the ostensible purpose of spying upon the refugees, but in reality to organize
the foreign expedition and secure his own safety. The passport being delayed, he offered to
reveal to Walsingham a dangerous conspiracy, but the latter sent no reply, and meanwhile the
ports were closed and none allowed to leave the kingdom for some days. He was still allowed
his liberty, but one night while supping with Walsingham's servant he observed a memorandum
of the minister's concerning himself, fled to St John's Wood, where he was joined by some of
his companions, and after disguising himself succeeded in reaching Harrow, where he was sheltered
by a recent convert to Romanism. Towards the end of August he was discovered and imprisoned
in the Tower. On the 13th and 14th of September he was tried with Ballard and five others by
a special commission, when he confessed his guilt, but strove to place all the blame upon Ballard.
All were condemned to death for high treason. On the 19th he wrote to Elizabeth praying for
mercy, and the same day offered £1000 for procuring his pardon; and on the 20th, having disclosed
the cipher used in the correspondence between himself and Mary, he was executed [v.03 p.0096]
with the usual barbarities in Lincoln's Inn Fields. The detection of the plot led to Mary's
own destruction. There is no positive documentary proof in Mary's own hand that she had knowledge
of the intended assassination of Elizabeth, but her circumstances, together with the tenour
of her correspondence with Babington, place her complicity beyond all reasonable doubt.

[1] Cata. of State Papers Simancas, iii. 606, Mendoza to Philip.

BABINGTON, CHURCHILL (1821-1889), English classical scholar and archaeologist, was born at
Roecliffe, in Leicestershire, on the 11th of March 1821. He was educated by his father till
he was seventeen, when he was placed under the tuition of Charles Wycliffe Goodwin, the orientalist
and archaeologist. He entered St John's College, Cambridge, in 1839, and graduated B.A. in
1843, being seventh in the first class of the classical tripos and a senior optime. In 1845
he obtained the Hulsean Prize for his essay The Influence of Christianity in promoting the
Abolition of Slavery in Europe. In 1846 he was elected to a fellowship and took orders. He
proceeded to the degree of M.A. in 1846 and D.D. in 1879. From 1848 to 1861 he was vicar of
Horningsea, near Cambridge, and from 1866 to his death on the 12th of January 1889, vicar of
Cockfield in Suffolk. From 1865 to 1880 he held the Disney professorship of archaeology at
Cambridge. In his lectures, illustrated from his own collections of coins and vases, he dealt
chiefly with Greek and Roman pottery and numismatics.

Dr Babington was a many-sided man and wrote on a variety of subjects. His early familiarity
with country life gave him a taste for natural history, especially botany and ornithology.
He was also an authority on conchology. He was the author of the appendices on botany (in part)
and ornithology in Potter's History and Antiquities of Charnwood Forest (1842); Mr Macaulay's
Character of the Clergy ... considered (1849), a defence of the clergy of the 17th century,
which received the approval of Mr Gladstone, against the strictures of Macaulay. He also brought
out the editio princeps of the speeches of Hypereides Against Demosthenes (1850), On Behalf
of Lycophron and Euxenippus (1853), and his Funeral Oration (1858). It was by his edition of
these speeches from the papyri discovered at Thebes (Egypt) in 1847 and 1856 that Babington's
fame as a Greek scholar was made. In 1855 he published an edition of Benefizio della Morte
di Cristo, a remarkable book of the Reformation period, attributed to Paleario, of which nearly
all the copies had been destroyed by the Inquisition. Babington's edition was a facsimile of
the editio princeps published at Venice in 1543, with Introduction and French and English versions.
He also edited the first two volumes of Higden's Polychronicon (1858) and Bishop Pecock's Repressor
of Overmuch Blaming of the Clergy (1860), undertaken at the request of the Master of the Rolls;
Introductory Lecture on Archaeology (1865); Roman Antiquities found at Rougham [1872]; Catalogue
of Birds of Suffolk (1884-1886); Flora of Suffolk (with W. M. Hind, 1889), and (1855, 1865)
some inscriptions found in Crete by T. A. B. Spratt, the explorer of the island. In addition
to contributing to various classical and scientific journals, he catalogued the classical MSS.
in the University Library and the Greek and English coins in the Fitzwilliam museum.

BABIRUSA ("pig-deer"), the Malay name of the wild swine of Celebes and Buru, which has been
adopted in zoology as the scientific designation of this remarkable animal (the only representative
of its genus), in the form of Babirusa alfurus. The skin is nearly naked, and very rough and
rugged. The total number of teeth is 34, with the formula i.2/3. c.1/1. p.2/3. m.3/3. The molars,
and more especially the last, are smaller and simpler than in the pigs of the genus Sus, but
the peculiarity of this genus is the extraordinary development of the canines, or tusks, of
the male. These teeth are ever-growing, long, slender and curved, and without enamel. Those
of the upper jaw are directed upwards from their bases, so that they never enter the mouth,
but pierce the skin of the face, thus resembling horns rather than teeth; they curve backwards,
downwards, and finally often forwards again, almost or quite touching the forehead. Dr A. R.
Wallace remarks that "it is difficult to understand what can be the use of these horn-like
teeth. Some of the old writers supposed that they served as hooks by which the creature could
rest its head on a branch. But the way in which they usually diverge just over and in front
of the eye has suggested the more probable idea, that they serve to guard these organs from
thorns and spines while hunting for fallen fruits among the tangled thickets of rattans and
other spiny plants. Even this, however, is not satisfactory, for the female, who must seek
her food in the same way, does not possess them. I should be inclined to believe rather that
these tusks were once useful, and were then worn down as fast as they grew, but that changed
conditions of life have rendered them unnecessary, and they now develop into a monstrous form,
just as the incisors of the beaver and rabbit will go on growing if the opposite teeth do not
wear them away. In old animals they reach an enormous size, and are generally broken off as
if by fighting." On this latter view we may regard the tusks of the male babirusa as examples
of redundant development, analogous to that of the single pair of lower teeth in some of the
beaked whales. Unlike ordinary wild pigs, the babirusa produces uniformly coloured young. (See
SWINE.)

(R. L.*)

BABOON (from the Fr. babuin, which is itself derived from Babon, the Egyptian deity to whom
it was sacred), properly the designation of the long-muzzled, medium-tailed Egyptian monkey,
scientifically known as Papio anubis; in a wider sense applied to all the members of the genus
Papio (formerly known as Cynocephalus) now confined to Africa and Arabia, although in past
times extending into India. Baboons are for the most part large terrestrial monkeys with short
or medium-sized tails, and long naked dog-like muzzles, in the truncated extremity of which
are pierced the nostrils. As a rule, they frequent barren rocky districts in large droves,
and are exceedingly fierce and dangerous to approach. They have large cheek-pouches, large
naked callosities, often brightly coloured, on the buttocks, and short thick limbs, adapted
rather to walking than to climbing. Their diet includes practically everything eatable they
can capture or kill. The typical representative of the genus is the yellow baboon (P. cynocephalus,
or babuin), distinguished by its small size and grooved muzzle, and ranging from Abyssinia
to the Zambezi. The above-mentioned anubis baboon, P. anubis (with the subspecies neumanni,
pruinosus, heuglini and doguera), ranging from Egypt all through tropical Africa, together
with P. sphinx, P. olivaceus, the Abyssinian P. lydekkeri, and the chacma, P. porcarius of
the Cape, represent the subgenus Choeropithecus. The named Arabian baboon, P. hamadryas of
North Africa and Arabia, dedicated by the ancient Egyptians to the god Thoth, and the South
Arabian P. arabicus, typify Hamadryas; while the drill and mandrill of the west coast, P. leucophaeus
and P. maimon, constitute the subgenus Maimon. The anubis baboons, as shown by the frescoes,
were tamed by the ancient Egyptians and trained to pluck sycamore-figs from the trees. (See
PRIMATES; CHACMA; DRILL; GELADA and MANDRILL).

(R. L.*)

BABRIUS, author of a collection of fables written in Greek. Practically nothing is known of
him. He is supposed to have been a Roman, whose gentile name was possibly Valerius, living
in the East, probably in Syria, where the fables seem first [v.03 p.0097] to have gained popularity.
The address to "a son of King Alexander" has caused much speculation, with the result that
dates varying between the 3rd century B.C. and the 3rd century A.D. have been assigned to Babrius.
The Alexander referred to may have been Alexander Severus (A.D. 222-235), who was fond of having
literary men of all kinds about his court. "The son of Alexander" has further been identified
with a certain Branchus mentioned in the fables, and it is suggested that Babrius may have
been his tutor; probably, however, Branchus is a purely fictitious name. There is no mention
of Babrius in ancient writers before the beginning of the 3rd century A.D., and his language
and style seem to show that he belonged to that period. The first critic who made Babrius more
than a mere name was Richard Bentley, in his Dissertation on the Fables of Aesop. In a careful
examination of these prose Aesopian fables, which had been handed down in various collections
from the time of Maximus Planudes, Bentley discovered traces of versification, and was able
to extract a number of verses which he assigned to Babrius. Tyrwhitt (De Babrio, 1776) followed
up the researches of Bentley, and for some time the efforts of scholars were directed towards
reconstructing the metrical original of the prose fables. In 1842 M. Minas, a Greek, the discoverer
of the Philosophoumena of Hippolytus, came upon a MS. of Babrius in the convent of St Laura
on Mount Athos, now in the British Museum. This MS. contained 123 fables out of the supposed
original number, 160. They are arranged alphabetically, but break off at the letter O. The
fables are written in choliambic, i.e. limping or imperfect iambic verse, having a spondee
as the last foot, a metre originally appropriated to satire. The style is extremely good, the
expression being terse and pointed, the versification correct and elegant, and the construction
of the stories is fully equal to that in the prose versions. The genuineness of this collection
of the fables was generally admitted by scholars. In 1857 Minas professed to have discovered
at Mount Athos another MS. containing 94 fables and a preface. As the monks refused to sell
this MS., he made a copy of it, which was sold to the British Museum, and was published in
1859 by Sir G. Cornewall Lewis. This, however, was soon proved to be a forgery. Six more fables
were brought to light by P. Knöll from a Vatican MS. (edited by A. Eberhard, Analecta Babriana,
1879).

EDITIONS.--Boissonade (1844); Lachmann (1845); Schneider (1853); Eberhard (1876); Gitlbauer
(1882); Rutherford (1883); Knöll, Fabularum Babrianarum Paraphrasis Bodleiana (1877); Feuillet
(1890); Desrousseaux (1890); Passerat (1892); Croiset (1892); Crusius (1897). See also Mantels,
Über die Fabeln des B. (1840); Crusius, De Babrii Aetate (1879); Ficus, De Babrii Vita (1889);
J. Weiner, Quaestiones Babrianae (1891); Conington, Miscellaneous Writings, ii. 460-491; Marchiano,
Babrio (1899); Fusci, Babrio (1901); Christoffersson, Studia de Fabulis Babrianis (1901). There
are translations in English by Davies (1860) and in French by Levèque (1890), and in many other
languages.

BABU, a native Indian clerk. The word is really a term of respect attached to a proper name,
like "master" or "Mr," and Babu-ji is still used in many parts of India, meaning "sir"; but
without the suffix the word itself is now generally used contemptuously as signifying a semi-literate
native, with a mere veneer of modern education.

BABY-FARMING,[1] a term meaning generally the taking in of infants to nurse for payment, but
usually with an implication of improper treatment. Previous to the year 1871 the abuse of the
practice of baby-farming in England had grown to an alarming extent, while the trials of Margaret
Waters and Mary Hall called attention to the infamous relations between the lying-in houses
and the baby-farming houses of London. The evil was, no doubt, largely connected with the question
of illegitimacy, for there was a wide-spread existence of baby-farms where children were received
without question on payment of a lump sum. Such children were nearly all illegitimate, and
in these cases it was to the pecuniary advantage of the baby-farmer to hasten the death of
the child. It had become also the practice for factory operatives and mill-hands to place out
their children by the day, and since in many cases the children were looked upon as a burden
and a drain on their parents' resources, too particular inquiry was not always made as to the
mode in which the children were cared for. The form was gone through too of paying a ridiculously
insufficient sum for the maintenance of the child. In 1871 the House of Commons found it necessary
to appoint a select committee "to inquire as to the best means of preventing the destruction
of the lives of infants put out to nurse for hire by their parents." "Improper and insufficient
food," said the committee, "opiates, drugs, crowded rooms, bad air, want of cleanliness, and
wilful neglect are sure to be followed in a few months by diarrhoea, convulsions and wasting
away." These unfortunate children were nearly all illegitimate, and the mere fact of their
being hand-nursed, and not breast-nursed, goes some way (according to the experience of the
Foundling hospital and the Magdalene home) to explain the great mortality among them. Such
children, when nursed by their mothers in the workhouse, generally live. The practical result
of the committee of 1871 was the act of 1872, which provided for the compulsory registration
of all houses in which more than one child under the age of one year were received for a longer
period than twenty-four hours. No licence was granted by the justices of the peace, unless
the house was suitable for the purpose, and its owner a person of good character and able to
maintain the children. Offences against the act, including wilful neglect of the children even
in a suitable house, were punishable by a fine of £5 or six months' imprisonment with or without
hard labour. In 1896 a select committee of the House of Lords sat and reported on the working
of this act. In consequence of this report the act of 1872 was repealed and superseded by the
Infant Life Protection Act 1897, which did away with the system of registration and substituted
for it one of notice to a supervening authority. By the act all persons retaining or receiving
for hire more than one infant under the age of five had to give written notice of the fact
to the local authority. The local authorities were empowered to appoint inspectors, and required
to arrange for the periodical inspection of infants so taken in, while they could also fix
the number of infants which might be retained. By a special clause any person receiving an
infant under the age of two years for a sum of money not exceeding twenty pounds had to give
notice of the fact to the local authority. If any infants were improperly kept, the inspector
might obtain an order for their removal to a work-house or place of safety until restored to
their parents or guardians, or otherwise legally disposed of. The act of 1897 was repealed
and amended by the Children Act 1908, which codified the law relating to children, and added
many new provisions. This act is dealt with in the article CHILDREN, LAW RELATING TO.

In the United States the law is noticeably strict in most states. In Massachusetts, a law of
1891 directs that "every person who receives for board, or for the purpose of procuring adoption,
an infant under the age of three years shall use diligence to ascertain whether or not such
infant is illegitimate, and if he knows or has reason to believe it to be illegitimate shall
forthwith notify the State Board of Charity of the fact of such reception; and said board and
its officers or agents may enter and inspect any building where they may have reason to believe
that any such illegitimate infant is boarded, and remove such infant when, in their judgment,
such removal is necessary by reason of neglect, abuse or other causes, in order to preserve
the infant's life, and such infant so removed shall be in the custody of said Board of Charity,
which shall make provision therefor according to law." The penal code of the state of New York
requires a licence for baby-farming to be issued by the board of health of the city or town
where such children are boarded or kept, and "every person so licensed must keep a register
wherein he shall enter the names and ages of all such children, and of all children born on
such premises, and the names and residences of their parents, as far as known, the time of
reception and the discharge of such children, and the reasons therefor, and also a correct
register of every child under five years of age who is given out, adopted, taken away, or indentured
from such place [v.03 p.0098] to or by any one, together with the name and residence of the
person so adopting" (Pen. Code, § 288, subsec. 4).

Persons neglecting children may be prosecuted under § 289 of the N.Y. penal code, which provides
that any person who "wilfully causes or permits the life or limb of any child, actually or
apparently under the age of sixteen years, to be endangered, or its health to be injured, or
its morals to become depraved ... is guilty of a misdemeanour."

In Australia particular care has been taken by most of the states to prevent the evils of baby-farming.
In South Australia there is a State Children's Council, which, under the State Children Act
of 1895, has large powers with respect to the oversight of infants under two years boarded
out by their mother. "Foster-mothers," as the women who take in infants as boarders are called,
must be licensed, while the number of children authorized to be kept by the foster-mother is
fixed by licence; every licensed foster-mother must keep a register containing the name, age
and place of birth of every child received by her, the names, addresses and description of
the parents, or of any person other than the parents from or to whom the child was received
or delivered over, the date of receipt or delivery over, particulars of any accident to or
illness of the child, and the name of the medical practitioner (if any) by whom attended. In
New South Wales the Children's Protection Act of 1892, with the amendments of 1902, requires
the same state supervision over the homes in which children are boarded out, with licensing
of foster-mothers. In Victoria an act was passed in 1890 for "making better provision for the
protection of infant life." In New Zealand, there is legislation to the same effect by the
"Adoption of Children Act 1895" and the "Infant Life Protection Act 1896."

[1] Baby is a diminutive or pet form of "babe," now chiefly used in poetry or scriptural language.
"Babe" is probably a form of the earlier baban, a reduplicated form of the infant sound ba.

BABYLON (mod. Hillah), an ancient city on the left bank of the Euphrates, about 70 m. S. of
Bagdad. "Babylon" is the Greek form of Babel or Bab-ili, "the gate of the god" (sometimes incorrectly
written "of the gods"), which again is the Semitic translation of the original Sumerian name
Ka-dimirra. The god was probably Merodach or Marduk (q.v.), the divine patron of the city.
In an inscription of the Kassite conqueror Gaddas the name appears as Ba-ba-lam, as if from
the Assyrian babalu, "to bring"; another foreign Volksetymologie is found in Genesis xi. 9,
from balbal, "to confound." A second name of the city, which perhaps originally denoted a separate
village or quarter, was Su-anna, and in later inscriptions it is often represented ideographically
by E-ki, the pronunciation and meaning of which are uncertain. One of its oldest names, however,
was Din-tir, of which the poets were especially fond; Din-tir signifies in Sumerian "the life
of the forest," though a native lexicon translates it "seat of life." Uru-azagga, "the holy
city," was also a title sometimes applied to Babylon as to other cities in Babylonia. Ka-dimirra,
the Semitic Bab-ili, probably denoted at first E-Saggila, "the house of the lofty head," the
temple dedicated to Bel-Merodach, along with its immediate surroundings. Like the other great
sanctuaries of Babylonia the temple had been founded in pre-Semitic times, and the future Babylon
grew up around it. Since Merodach was the son of Ea, the culture god of Eridu near Ur on the
Persian Gulf, it is possible that Babylon was a colony of Eridu. Adjoining Babylon was a town
called Borsippa (q.v.).

The earliest mention of Babylon is in a dated tablet of the reign of Sargon of Akkad (3800
B.C.), who is stated to have built sanctuaries there to Anunit and A[=e] (or Ea), and H. Winckler
may be right in restoring a mutilated passage in the annals of this king so as to make it mean
that Babylon owed its name to Sargon, who made it the capital of his empire. If so, it fell
back afterwards into the position of a mere provincial town and remained so for centuries,
until it became the capital of "the first dynasty of Babylon" and then of Khammurabi's empire
(2250 B.C.). From this time onward it continued to be the capital of Babylonia and the holy
city of western Asia. The claim to supremacy in Asia, however real in fact, was not admitted
de jure until the claimant had "taken the hands" of Bel-Merodach at Babylon, and thereby been
accepted as his adopted son and the inheritor of the old Babylonian empire. It was this which
made Tiglath-pileser III. and other Assyrian kings so anxious to possess themselves of Babylon
and so to legitimize their power. Sennacherib alone seems to have failed in securing the support
of the Babylonian priesthood; at all events he never underwent the ceremony, and Babylonia
throughout his reign was in a constant state of revolt which was finally suppressed only by
the complete destruction of the capital. In 689 B.C. its walls, temples and palaces were razed
to the ground and the rubbish thrown into the Arakhtu, the canal which bordered the earlier
Babylon on the south. The act shocked the religious conscience of western Asia; the subsequent
murder of Sennacherib was held to be an expiation of it, and his successor Esar-haddon hastened
to rebuild the old city, to receive there his crown, and make it his residence during part
of the year. On his death Babylonia was left to his elder son Samas-sum-yukin, who eventually
headed a revolt against his brother Assur-bani-pal of Assyria. Once more Babylon was besieged
by the Assyrians and starved into surrender. Assur-bani-pal purified the city and celebrated
a "service of reconciliation," but did not venture to "take the hands" of Bel. In the subsequent
overthrow of the Assyrian empire the Babylonians saw another example of divine vengeance.

With the recovery of Babylonian independence under Nabopolassar a new era of architectural
activity set in, and his son Nebuchadrezzar made Babylon one of the wonders of the ancient
world. It surrendered without a struggle to Cyrus, but two sieges in the reign of Darius Hystaspis,
and one in the reign of Xerxes, brought about the destruction of the defences, while the monotheistic
rule of Persia allowed the temples to fall into decay. Indeed part of the temple of E-Saggila,
which like other ancient temples served as a fortress, was intentionally pulled down by Xerxes
after his capture of the city. Alexander was murdered in the palace of Nebuchadrezzar, which
must therefore have been still standing, and cuneiform texts show that, even under the Seleucids,
E-Saggila was not wholly a ruin. The foundation of Seleucia in its neighbourhood, however,
drew away the population of the old city and hastened its material decay. A tablet dated 275
B.C. states that on the 12th of Nisan the inhabitants of Babylon were transported to the new
town, where a palace was built as well as a temple to which the ancient name of E-Saggila was
given. With this event the history of Babylon comes practically to an end, though more than
a century later we find sacrifices being still performed in its old sanctuary.

Our knowledge of its topography is derived from the classical writers, the inscriptions of
Nebuchadrezzar, and the excavations of the Deutsche Orientgesellschaft, which were begun in
1899. The topography is necessarily that of the Babylon of Nebuchadrezzar; the older Babylon
which was destroyed by Sennacherib having left few, if any, traces behind. Most of the existing
remains lie on the E. bank of the Euphrates, the principal being three vast mounds, the Babil
to the north, the Qasr or "Palace" (also known as the Mujelliba) in the centre, and the Ish[=a]n
`Amran ibn `Ali, with the outlying spur of the Jumjuma, to the south. Eastward of these come
the Ish[=a]n el-Aswad or "Black Mound" and three lines of rampart, one of which encloses the
Babil mound on the N. and E. sides, while a third forms a triangle with the S.E. angle of the
other two. W. of the Euphrates are other ramparts and the remains of the ancient Borsippa.

We learn from Herodotus and Ctesias that the city was built on both sides of the river in the
form of a square, and enclosed within a double row of lofty walls to which Ctesias adds a third.
Ctesias makes the outermost wall 360 stades (42 m.) in circumference, while according to Herodotus
it measured 480 stades (56 m.), which would include an area of about 200 sq. m. The estimate
of Ctesias is essentially the same as that of Q. Curtius (v. 1. 26), 368 stades, and Clitarchus
(ap. Diod. Sic. ii. 7), 365 stades; Strabo (xvi. 1. 5) makes it 385 stades. But even the estimate
of Ctesias, assuming the stade to be its usual length, would imply an area of about 100 sq.
m. According to Herodotus the height of the walls was about 335 ft. and their width 85 ft;
[v.03 p.0099] according to Ctesias the height was about 300 ft. The measurements seem exaggerated,
but we must remember that even in Xenophon's time (Anab. iii. 4. 10) the ruined wall of Nineveh
was still 150 ft high, and that the spaces between the 250 towers of the wall of Babylon (Ctes.
417, ap. Diod. ii. 7) were broad enough to let a four-horse chariot turn (Herod. i. 179). The
clay dug from the moat served to make the bricks of the wall, which had 100 gates, all of bronze,
with bronze lintels and posts. The two inner enclosures were faced with enamelled tiles and
represented hunting-scenes. Two other walls ran along the banks of the Euphrates and the quays
with which it was lined, each containing 25 gates which answered to the number of streets they
led into. Ferry-boats plied between the landing-places of the gates, and a movable drawbridge
(30 ft. broad), supported on stone piers, joined the two parts of the city together.

The account thus given of the walls must be grossly exaggerated and cannot have been that of
an eye-witness. Moreover, the two walls--Imgur-Bel, the inner wall, and Nimitti-Bel, the outer--which
enclosed the city proper on the site of the older Babylon have been confused with the outer
ramparts (enclosing the whole of Nebuchadrezzar's city), the remains of which can still be
traced to the east. According to Nebuchadrezzar, Imgur-Bel was built in the form of a square,
each side of which measured "30 aslu by the great cubit"; this would be equivalent, if Professor
F. Hommel is right, to 2400 metres. Four thousand cubits to the east the great rampart was
built "mountain high," which surrounded both the old and the new town; it was provided with
a moat, and a reservoir was excavated in the triangle on the inner side of its south-east corner,
the western wall of which is still visible. The Imgur-Bel of Sargon's time has been discovered
by the German excavators running south of the Qasr from the Euphrates to the Gate of Ishtar.

The German excavations have shown that the Qasr mound represents both the old palace of Nabopolassar,
and the new palace adjoining it built by Nebuchadrezzar, the wall of which he boasts of having
completed in 15 days. They have also laid bare the site of the "Gate of Ishtar" on the east
side of the mound and the little temple of Nin-Makh (Beltis) beyond it, as well as the raised
road for solemn processions (A-ibur-sabu) which led from the Gate of Ishtar to E-Saggila and
skirted the east side of the palace. The road was paved with stone and its walls on either
side lined with enamelled tiles, on which a procession of lions is represented. North of the
mound was a canal, which seems to have been the Libilkhegal of the inscriptions, while on the
south side was the Arakhtu, "the river of Babylon," the brick quays of which were built by
Nabopolassar.

The site of E-Saggila is still uncertain. The German excavators assign it to the `Amr[=a]n
mound, its tower having stood in a depression immediately to the north of this, and so place
it south of the Qasr; but E. Lindl and F. Hommel have put forward strong reasons for considering
it to have been north of the latter, on a part of the site which has not yet been explored.
A tablet copied by George Smith gives us interesting details as to the plan and dimensions
of this famous temple of Bel; a plan based on these will be found in Hommel's Grundriss der
Geographie und Geschichte des alten Orients, p. 321. There were three courts, the outer or
great court, the middle court of Ishtar and Zamama, and the inner court on the east side of
which was the tower of seven stages (known as the House of the Foundation of Heaven and Earth),
90 metres high according to Hommel's calculation of the measurements in the tablet; while on
the west side was the temple proper of Merodach and his wife Sarpanit or Zarpanit, as well
as chapels of Anu, Ea and Bel on either side of it. A winding ascent led to the summit of the
tower, where there was a chapel, containing, according to Herodotus, a couch and golden table
(for the showbread) but no image. The golden image of Merodach 40 ft. high, stood in the temple
below, in the sanctuary called E-Kua or "House of the Oracle," together with a table, a mercy-seat
and an altar--all of gold. The deities whose chapels were erected within the precincts of the
temple enclosure were regarded as forming his court. Fifty-five of these chapels existed altogether
in Babylon, but some of them stood independently in other parts of the city.

There are numerous gates in the walls both of E-Saggila and of the city, the names of many
of which are now known. Nebuchadrezzar says that he covered the walls of some of them with
blue enamelled tiles "on which bulls and dragons were pourtrayed," and that he set up large
bulls and serpents of bronze on their thresholds.

The Babil mound probably represents the site of a palace built by Nebuchadrezzar at the northern
extremity of the city walls and attached to a defensive outwork 60 cubits in length. Since
H. Rassam found remains of irrigation works here it might well be the site of the Hanging Gardens.
These consisted, we are told, of a garden of trees and flowers, built on the topmost of a series
of arches some 75 ft. high, and in the form of a square, each side of which measured 400 Greek
ft. Water was raised from the Euphrates by means of a screw (Strabo xvi. 1. 5; Diod. ii. 10.
6). In the Jumjuma mound at the southern extremity of the old city the contract and other business
tablets of the Egibi firm were found.

See C. J. Rich, Memoir on the Ruins of Babylon (1816), and Collected Memoirs (1839); A. H.
Layard, Nineveh and Babylon (1853); C. P. Tiele, De Hoofdtempel van Babel (1886); A. H. Sayce,
Religion of the Ancient Babylonians, App. ii. (1887); C. J. Ball in Records of the Past (new
ser. iii.

(A. H. S.)

BABYLONIA AND ASSYRIA. I. Geography.--Geographically as well as ethnologically and historically,
the whole district enclosed between the two great rivers of western Asia, the Tigris and Euphrates,
forms but one country. The writers of antiquity clearly recognized this fact, speaking of the
whole under the general name of Assyria, though Babylonia, as will be seen, would have been
a more accurate designation. It naturally falls into two divisions, the northern being more
or less mountainous, while the southern is flat and marshy; the near approach of the two rivers
to one another, at a spot where the undulating plateau of the north sinks suddenly into the
Babylonian alluvium, tends to separate them still more completely. In the earliest times of
which we have any record, the northern portion was included in Mesopotamia; it was definitely
marked off as Assyria only after the rise of the Assyrian monarchy. With the exception of Assur,
the original capital, the chief cities of the country, Nineveh, Calah and Arbela, were all
on the left bank of the Tigris. The reason of this preference for the eastern bank of the Tigris
was due to its abundant supply of water, whereas the great Mesopotamian plain on the western
side had to depend upon the streams which flowed into the Euphrates. This vast flat, the modern
El-Jezireh, is about 250 miles in length, interrupted only by a single limestone range, rising
abruptly out of the plain, and branching off from the Zagros mountains under the names of Saraz[=u]r,
Hamrin and Sinjar. The numerous remains of old habitations show how thickly this level tract
must once have been peopled, though now for the most part a wilderness. North of the plateau
rises a well-watered and undulating belt of country, into which run low ranges of limestone
hills, sometimes arid, sometimes covered with dwarf-oak, and often shutting in, between their
northern and north-eastern flank and the main mountain-line from which they detach themselves,
rich plains and fertile valleys. Behind them tower the massive ridges of the Niphates and Zagros
ranges, where the Tigris and Euphrates take their rise, and which cut off Assyria from Armenia
and Kurdistan.

The name Assyria itself was derived from that of the city of Assur (q.v.) or Asur, now Qal`at
Sherqat (Kaleh Shergat), which stood on the right bank of the Tigris, midway between the Greater
and the Lesser Zab. It remained the capital long after the Assyrians had become the dominant
power in western Asia, but was finally supplanted by Calah (Nimr[=u]d), Nineveh (Nebi Yunus
and Kuyunjik), and Dur-Sargina (Khorsabad), some 60 m. farther north (see NINEVEH).

In contrast with the arid plateau of Mesopotamia, stretched the [v.03 p.0100] rich alluvial
plain of Chaldaea, formed by the deposits of the two great rivers by which it was enclosed.
The soil was extremely fertile, and teemed with an industrious population. Eastward rose the
mountains of Elam, southward were the sea-marshes and the Kald[=a] or Chaldaeans and other
Aramaic tribes, while on the west the civilization of Babylonia encroached beyond the banks
of the Euphrates, upon the territory of the Semitic nomads (or Suti). Here stood Ur (Mugheir,
more correctly Muqayyar) the earliest capital of the country; and Babylon, with its suburb,
Borsippa (Birs Nimr[=u]d), as well as the two Sipparas (the Sepharvaim of Scripture, now Abu
Habba), occupied both the Arabian and Chaldaean sides of the river (see BABYLON). The Arakhtu,
or "river of Babylon," flowed past the southern side of the city, and to the south-west of
it on the Arabian bank lay the great inland freshwater sea of Nejef, surrounded by red sandstone
cliffs of considerable height, 40 m. in length and 35 in breadth in the widest part. Above
and below this sea, from Borsippa to Kufa, extend the famous Chaldaean marshes, where Alexander
was nearly lost (Arrian, Exp. Al. vii. 22; Strab. xvi. 1, § 12); but these depend upon the
state of the Hindiya canal, disappearing altogether when it is closed.

Eastward of the Euphrates and southward of Sippara, Kutha and Babylon were Kis (Uhaimir, 9
m. E. of Hillah), Nippur (Niffer)--where stood the great sanctuary of El-lil, the older Bel--Uruk
or Erech (Warka) and Larsa (Senkera) with its temple of the sun-god, while eastward of the
Shatt el-Hai, probably the ancient channel of the Tigris, was Lagash (Tello), which played
an important part in early Babylonian history. The primitive seaport of the country, Eridu,
the seat of the worship of Ea the culture-god, was a little south of Ur (at Abu Shahrain or
Now[=a]wis on the west side of the Euphrates). It is now about 130 m. distant from the sea;
as about 46 m. of land have been formed by the silting up of the shore since the foundation
of Spasinus Charax (Muhamrah) in the time of Alexander the Great, or some 115 ft. a year, the
city would have been in existence at least 6000 years ago. The marshes in the south like the
adjoining desert were frequented by Aramaic tribes; of these the most famous were the Kald[=a]
or Chaldaeans who under Merodach-baladan made themselves masters of Babylon and gave their
name in later days to the whole population of the country. The combined stream of the Euphrates
and Tigris as it flowed through the marshes was known to the Babylonians as the n[=a]r marrati,
"the salt river" (cp. Jer. l. 21), a name originally applied to the Persian Gulf.

The alluvial plain of Babylonia was called Edin, the Eden of Gen. ii., though the name was
properly restricted to "the plain" on the western bank of the river where the Bedouins pastured
the flocks of their Babylonian masters. This "bank" or kisad, together with the corresponding
western bank of the Tigris (according to Hommel the modern Shatt el-Hai), gave its name to
the land of Chesed, whence the Kasdim of the Old Testament. In the early inscriptions of Lagash
the whole district is known as Gu-Edinna, the Sumerian equivalent of the Semitic Kisad Edini.
The coast-land was similarly known as Gu-[=a]bba (Semitic Kisad tamtim), the "bank of the sea."
A more comprehensive name of southern Babylonia was Kengi, "the land," or Kengi Sumer, "the
land of Sumer," for which Sumer alone came afterwards to be used. Sumer has been supposed to
be the original of the Biblical Shinar; but Shinar represented northern rather than southern
Babylonia, and was probably the Sankhar of the Tell el-Amarna tablets (but see SUMER). Opposed
to Kengi and Sumer were Urra (Uri) and Akkad or northern Babylonia. The original meaning of
Urra was perhaps "clayey soil," but it came to signify "the upper country" or "highlands,"
kengi being "the lowlands." In Semitic times Urra was pronounced Uri and confounded with uru,
"city"; as a geographical term, however, it was replaced by Akkadu (Akkad), the Semitic form
of Agad[=e]--written Akkattim in the Elamite inscriptions--the name of the elder Sargon's capital,
which must have stood close to Sippara, if indeed it was not a quarter of Sippara itself. The
rise of Sargon's empire was doubtless the cause of this extension of the name of Akkad; from
henceforward, in the imperial title, "Sumer and Akkad" denoted the whole of Babylonia. After
the Kassite conquest of the country, northern Babylonia came to be known as Kar-Duniyas, "the
wall of the god Duniyas," from a line of fortification similar to that built by Nebuchadrezzar
between Sippara and Opis, so as to defend his kingdom from attacks from the north. As this
last was "the Wall of Semiramis" mentioned by Strabo (xi. 14. 8), Kar-Duniyas may have represented
the Median Wall of Xenophon (Anab. ii. 4. 12), traces of which were found by F. R. Chesney
extending from Faluja to Jibbar.

The country was thickly studded with towns, the sites of which are still represented by mounds,
though the identification of most of them is still doubtful. The latest to be identified are
Bismya, between Nippur and Erech, which recent American excavations have proved to be the site
of Udab (also called Adab and Usab) and the neighbouring F[=a]ra, the site of the ancient Kisurra.
The dense population was due to the elaborate irrigation of the Babylonian plain which had
originally reclaimed it from a pestiferous and uninhabitable swamp and had made it the most
fertile country in the world. The science of irrigation and engineering seems to have been
first created in Babylonia, which was covered by a network of canals, all skilfully planned
and regulated. The three chief of them carried off the waters of the Euphrates to the Tigris
above Babylon,--the Zabzallat canal (or Nahr Sarsar) running from Faluja to Ctesiphon, the
Kutha canal from Sippara to Madain, passing Tell Ibrahim or Kutha on the way, and the King's
canal or Ar-Malcha between the other two. This last, which perhaps owed its name to Khammurabi,
was conducted from the Euphrates towards Upi or Opis, which has been shown by H. Winckler (Altorientalische
Forschungen, ii. pp. 509 seq.) to have been close to Seleucia on the western side of the Tigris.
The Pallacopas, called Pallukkatu in the Neo-Babylonian texts, started from Pallukkatu or Faluja,
and running parallel to the western bank of the Euphrates as far as Iddaratu or Teredon (?)
watered an immense tract of land and supplied a large lake near Borsippa. B. Meissner may be
right in identifying it with "the Canal of the Sun-god" of the early texts. Thanks to this
system of irrigation the cultivation of the soil was highly advanced in Babylonia. According
to Herodotus (i. 193) wheat commonly returned two hundred-fold to the sower, and occasionally
three hundred-fold. Pliny (H. N. xviii. 17) states that it was cut twice, and afterwards was
good keep for sheep, and Berossus remarked that wheat, sesame, barley, ochrys, palms, apples
and many kinds of shelled fruit grew wild, as wheat still does in the neighbourhood of Anah.
A Persian poem celebrated the 360 uses of the palm (Strabo xvi. 1. 14), and Ammianus Marcellinus
(xxiv. 3) says that from the point reached by Julian's army to the shores of the Persian Gulf
was one continuous forest of verdure.

II. Classical Authorities.--Such a country was naturally fitted to be a pioneer of civilization.
Before the decipherment of the cuneiform texts our knowledge of its history, however, was scanty
and questionable. Had the native history of Berossus survived, this would not have been the
case; all that is known of the Chaldaean historian's work, however, is derived from quotations
in Josephus, Ptolemy, Eusebius and the Syncellus. The authenticity of his list of 10 antediluvian
kings who reigned for 120 sari or 432,000 years, has been partially confirmed by the inscriptions;
but his 8 postdiluvian dynasties are difficult to reconcile with the monuments, and the numbers
attached to them are probably corrupt. It is different with the 7th and 8th dynasties as given
by Ptolemy in the Almagest, which prove to have been faithfully recorded:--

   1. Nabonassar (747 B.C.)             14 years
   2. Nadios                             2 "
   3. Khinziros and Poros (Pul)          5 "
   4. Ilulaeos                           5 "
   5. Mardokempados (Merodach-Baladan)  12 "
   6. Arkeanos (Sargon)                  5 "
   7. Interregnum                        2 "
   8. Hagisa                             1 month
   9. Belibos (702 B.C.)                 3 years
  10. Assaranadios (Assur-nadin-sum)     6 "
  [v.03 p.0101]
  11. R[=e]gebelos                       1 year
  12. M[=e]sesimordakos                  4 years
  13. Interregnum                        8 "
  14. Asaridinos (Esar-haddon)          13 "
  15. Saosdukhinos (Savul-sum-yukin)    20 "
  16. Sin[=e]ladanos (Assur-bani-pal)   22 "

The account of Babylon given by Herodotus is not that of an eye-witness, and his historical
notices are meagre and untrustworthy. He was controverted by Ctesias, who, however, has mistaken
mythology for history, and Greek romance owed to him its Ninus and Semiramis, its Ninyas and
Sardanapalus. The only ancient authority of value on Babylonian and Assyrian history is the
Old Testament.

III. Modern Discovery.--The excavations of P. E. Botta and A. H. Layard at Nineveh opened up
a new world, coinciding as they did with the successful decipherment of the cuneiform system
of writing. Layard's discovery of the library of Assur-bani-pal put the materials for reconstructing
the ancient life and history of Assyria and Babylonia into the hands of scholars. He also was
the first to excavate in Babylonia, where C. J. Rich had already done useful topographical
work. Layard's excavations in this latter country were continued by W. K. Loftus, who also
opened trenches at Susa, as well as by J. Oppert on behalf of the French government. But it
was only in the last quarter of the 19th century that anything like systematic exploration
was attempted. After the death of George Smith at Aleppo in 1876, an expedition was sent by
the British Museum (1877-1879), under the conduct of Hormuzd Rassam, to continue his work at
Nineveh and its neighbourhood. Excavations in the mounds of Balaw[=a]t, called Imgur-Bel by
the Assyrians, 15 m. east of Mosul, resulted in the discovery of a small temple dedicated to
the god of dreams by Assur-nazir-pal III. (883 B.C.), containing a stone coffer or ark in which
were two inscribed tables of alabaster of rectangular shape, as well as of a palace which had
been destroyed by the Babylonians but restored by Shalmaneser II. (858 B.C.). From the latter
came the bronze gates with hammered reliefs, which are now in the British Museum. The remains
of a palace of Assur-nazir-pal III. at Nimr[=u]d (Calah) were also excavated, and hundreds
of enamelled tiles were disinterred. Two years later (1880-1881) Rassam was sent to Babylonia,
where he discovered the site of the temple of the sun-god of Sippara at Abu-Habba, and so fixed
the position of the two Sipparas or Sepharvaim. Abu-Habba lies south-west of Bagdad, midway
between the Euphrates and Tigris, on the south side of a canal, which may once have represented
the main stream of the Euphrates, Sippara of the goddess Anunit, now D[=e]r, being on its opposite
bank.

Meanwhile (1877-1881) the French consul, de Sarzec, had been excavating at Tello, the ancient
Lagash, and bringing to light monuments of the pre-Semitic age, which included the diorite
statues of Gudea now in the Louvre, the stone of which, according to the inscriptions upon
them, had been brought from Magan, the Sinaitic peninsula. The subsequent excavations of de
Sarzec in Tello and its neighbourhood carried the history of the city back to at least 4000
B.C., and a collection of more than 30,000 tablets has been found, which were arranged on shelves
in the time of Gudea (c. 2700 B.C.). In 1886-1887 a German expedition under Dr Koldewey explored
the cemetery of El Hibba (immediately to the south of Tello), and for the first time made us
acquainted with the burial customs of ancient Babylonia. Another German expedition, on a large
scale, was despatched by the Orientgesellschaft in 1899 with the object of exploring the ruins
of Babylon; the palace of Nebuchadrezzar and the great processional road were laid bare, and
Dr W. Andrae subsequently conducted excavations at Qal`at Sherqat, the site of Assur. Even
the Turkish government has not held aloof from the work of exploration, and the Museum at Constantinople
is filled with the tablets discovered by Dr V. Scheil in 1897 on the site of Sippara. J. de
Morgan's exceptionally important work at Susa lies outside the limits of Babylonia; not so,
however, the American excavations (1903-1904) under E. J. Banks at Bismya (Udab), and those
of the university of Pennsylvania at Niffer (see NIPPUR) first begun in 1889, where Mr J. H.
Haynes has systematically and patiently uncovered the remains of the great temple of El-lil,
removing layer after layer of débris and cutting sections in the ruins down to the virgin soil.
In the deepest part of the excavations, however, inscribed clay tablets and fragments of stone
vases are still found, though the cuneiform characters upon them are of a very archaic type,
and sometimes even retain their primitive pictorial forms.

IV. Chronology.[1] The later chronology of Assyria has long been fixed, thanks to the lists
of limmi, or archons, who gave their names in succession to their years of office. Several
copies of these lists from the library of Nineveh are in existence, the earliest of which goes
back to 911 B.C., while the latest comes down to the middle of the reign of Assur-bani-pal.
The beginning of a king's reign is noted in the lists, and in some of them the chief events
of the year are added to the name of its archon. Assyrian chronology is, therefore, certain
from 911 B.C. to 666, and an eclipse of the sun which is stated to have been visible in the
month Sivan, 763 B.C., is one that has been calculated to have taken place on the 15th of June
of that year. The system of reckoning time by limmi was of Assyrian origin, and recent discoveries
have made it clear that it went back to the first days of the monarchy. Even in the distant
colony at Kara Euyuk near Kaisariyeh (Caesarea) in Cappadocia cuneiform tablets show that the
Assyrian settlers used it in the 15th century B.C. In Babylonia a different system was adopted.
Here the years were dated by the chief events that distinguished them, as was also the case
in Egypt in the epoch of the Old Empire. What the event should be was determined by the government
and notified to all its officials; one of these notices, sent to the Babylonian officials in
Canaan in the reign of Samsu-iluna, the son of Khammurabi, has been found in the Lebanon. A
careful register of the dates was kept, divided into reigns, from which dynastic lists were
afterwards compiled, giving the duration of each king's reign as well as that of the several
dynasties. Two of these dynastic compilations have been discovered, unfortunately in an imperfect
state.[2] In addition to the chronological tables, works of a more ambitious and literary character
were also attempted of the nature of chronicles. One of these is the so-called "Synchronous
History of Assyria and Babylonia," consisting of brief notices, written by an Assyrian, of
the occasions on which the kings of the two countries had entered into relation, hostile or
otherwise, with one another; a second is the Babylonian Chronicle discovered by Dr Th. G. Pinches,
which gave a synopsis of Babylonian history from a Babylonian point of view, and was compiled
in the reign of Darius. It is interesting to note that its author says of the battle of Khalul[=e],
which we know from the Assyrian inscriptions to have taken place in 691 or 690 B.C., that he
does "not know the year" when it was fought: the records of Assyria had been already lost,
even in Babylonia. The early existence of an accurate system of dating is not surprising; it
was necessitated by the fact that Babylonia was a great trading community, in which it was
not only needful that commercial and legal documents should be dated, but also that it should
be possible to refer easily to the dates of former business transactions. The Babylonian and
Assyrian kings had consequently no difficulty in [v.03 p.0102] determining the age of their
predecessors or of past events. Nabonidus (Nabunaid), who was more of an antiquarian than a
politician, and spent his time in excavating the older temples of his country and ascertaining
the names of their builders, tells us that Naram-Sin, the son of Sargon of Akkad, lived 3200
years before himself (i.e. 3750 B.C.), and Sagarakti-suryas 800 years; and we learn from Sennacherib
that Shalmaneser I. reigned 600 years earlier, and that Tiglath-pileser I. fought with Merodach-nadin-akhi
(Marduk-nadin-akh[=e]) of Babylon 418 years before the campaign of 689 B.C.; while, according
to Tiglath-pileser I., the high-priest Samas-Hadad, son of Isme-Dagon, built the temple of
Anu and Hadad at Assur 701 years before his own time. Shalmaneser I. in his turn states that
the high-priest Samas-Hadad, the son of Bel-kabi, governed Assur 580 years previously, and
that 159 years before this the high-priest Erisum was reigning there. The raid of the Elamite
king Kutur-Nakhkhunt[=e] is placed by Assur-bani-pal 1635 years before his own conquest of
Susa, and Khammurabi is said by Nabonidus to have preceded Burna-buryas by 700 years.

[Sidenote: Early Sumerian period.]

V. History.--In the earliest period of which we have any knowledge Babylonia was divided into
several independent states, the limits of which were defined by canals and boundary stones.
Its culture may be traced back to two main centres, Eridu in the south and Nippur in the north.
But the streams of civilization which flowed from them were in strong contrast. El-lil, around
whose sanctuary Nippur had grown up, was lord of the ghost-land, and his gifts to mankind were
the spells and incantations which the spirits of good or evil were compelled to obey. The world
which he governed was a mountain; the creatures whom he had made lived underground. Rising
each morning from his palace in the deep, he had given man the arts and sciences, the industries
and manners of civilization. To him was due the invention of writing, and the first law-book
was his creation. Eridu had once been a seaport, and it was doubtless its foreign trade and
intercourse with other lands which influenced the development of its culture. Its cosmology
was the result of its geographical position: the earth, it was believed, had grown out of the
waters of the deep, like the ever-widening coast at the mouth of the Euphrates. Long before
history begins, however, the cultures of Eridu and Nippur had coalesced. While Babylon seems
to have been a colony of Eridu, Ur, the immediate neighbour of Eridu, must have been colonized
from Nippur, since its moon-god was the son of El-lil of Nippur. But in the admixture of the
two cultures the influence of Eridu was predominant.

We may call the early civilization of Babylonia Sumerian. The race who first developed it spoke
an agglutinative language, and to them was due the invention of the pictorial hieroglyphs which
became the running-hand or cuneiform characters of later days, as well as the foundation of
the chief cities of the country and the elements of its civilization. The great engineering
works by means of which the marshes were drained and the overflow of the rivers regulated by
canals went back to Sumerian times, like a considerable part of later Babylonian religion and
the beginnings of Babylonian law. Indeed Sumerian continued to be the language of religion
and law long after the Semites had become the ruling race.

[Sidenote: Semitic Influence.]

Arrival of the Semites.--When the Semites first entered the Edin or plain of Babylonia is uncertain,
but it must have been at a remote period. The cuneiform system of writing was still in process
of growth when it was borrowed and adapted by the new comers, and the Semitic Babylonian language
was profoundly influenced by the older language of the country, borrowing its words and even
its grammatical usages. Sumerian in its turn borrowed from Semitic Babylonian, and traces of
Semitic influence in some of the earliest Sumerian texts indicate that the Semite was already
on the Babylonian border. His native home was probably Arabia; hence Eridu ("the good city")
and Ur ("the city") would have been built in Semitic territory, and their population may have
included Semitic elements from the first. It was in the north, however, that the Semites first
appear on the monuments. Here in Akkad the first Semitic empire was founded, Semitic conquerors
or settlers spread from Sippara to Susa, Khana to the east of the Tigris was occupied by "West
Semitic" tribes, and "out of" Babylonia "went forth the Assyrian." As in Assyria, so too in
the states of Babylonia the patesi or high-priest of the god preceded the king. The state had
grown up around a sanctuary, the god of which was nominally its ruler, the human patesi being
his viceregent. In course of time many of the high-priests assumed the functions and title
of king; while retaining their priestly office they claimed at the same time to be supreme
in the state in all secular concerns. The god remained nominally at its head; but even this
position was lost to him when Babylonia was unified under Semitic princes, and the earthly
king became an incarnate god. A recollection of his former power survived, however, at Babylon,
where Bel-Merodach adopted the king before his right to rule was allowed.

[Sidenote: Ur-nin[=a]

Early Princes.--The earliest monuments that can be approximately dynasty.] dated come from
Lagash (Tello). Here we hear of a "king of Kengi," as well as of a certain Me-silim, king of
Kis, who had dealings with Lugal-suggur, high-priest of Lagash, and the high-priest of a neighbouring
town, the name of which is provisionally transcribed Gis-ukh (formerly written Gis-ban and
confounded with the name of Opis). According to Scheil, Gis-ukh is represented by Jokha, south
of F[=a]ra and west of the Shatt el-Hai, and since two of its rulers are called kings of T[=e]
on a seal-cylinder, this may have been the pronunciation of the name.[3] At a later date the
high-priests of Lagash made themselves kings, and a dynasty was founded there by Ur-Nin[=a].
In the ruins of a building, attached by him to the temple of Nin[=a], terra-cotta bas-reliefs
of the king and his sons have been found, as well as the heads of lions in onyx, which remind
us of Egyptian work and onyx plates. These were "booty" dedicated to the goddess Bau. E-anna-du,
the grandson of Ur-Nin[=a], made himself master of the whole of southern Babylonia, including
"the district of Sumer" together with the cities of Erech, Ur and Larsa (?). He also annexed
the kingdom of Kis, which, however, recovered its independence after his death. Gis-ukh was
made tributary, a certain amount of grain being levied upon each person in it, which had to
be paid into the treasury of the goddess Nin[=a] and the god Ingurisa. The so-called "Stele
of the Vultures," now in the Louvre, was erected as a monument of the victory. On this various
incidents in the war are represented. In one scene the king stands in his chariot with a curved
weapon in his right hand formed of three bars of metal bound together by rings (similar, as
M. L. Heuzey has pointed out, to one carried by the chief of an Asiatic tribe in a tomb of
the 12th dynasty at Beni-Hasan in Egypt), while his kilted followers with helmets on their
heads and lances in their hands march behind him. In another a flock of vultures is feeding
on the bodies of the fallen enemy; in a third a tumulus is being heaped up over those who had
been slain on the side of Lagash. Elsewhere we see the victorious prince beating down a vanquished
enemy, and superintending the execution of other prisoners who are being sacrificed to the
gods, while in one curious scene he is striking with his mace a sort of wicker-work cage filled
with naked men. In his hand he holds the crest of Lagash and its god--a lion-headed eagle with
outstretched wings, supported by two lions which are set heraldically back to back. The sculptures
belong to a primitive period of art.

E-anna-du's campaigns extended beyond the confines of Babylonia. He overran a part of Elam
and took the city of Az on the Persian Gulf. Temples and palaces were repaired or erected at
Lagash and elsewhere, the town of Nin[=a]--which probably gave [v.03 p.0103] its name to the
later Nin[=a] or Nineveh--was rebuilt, and canals and reservoirs were excavated. He was succeeded
by his brother En-anna-tum I., under whom Gis-ukh once more became the dominant power. As En-anna-tum
has the title only of high-priest, it is probable that he acknowledged Ur-lumma of Gis-ukh
as his suzerain. His son and successor Entemena restored the prestige of Lagash. Gis-ukh was
subdued and a priest named Illi was made its governor. A tripod of silver dedicated by Entemena
to his god is now in the Louvre. A frieze of lions devouring ibexes and deer, and incised with
great artistic skill, runs round the neck, while the eagle crest of Lagash adorns the globular
part. The vase is a proof of the high degree of excellence to which the goldsmith's art had
already attained. A vase of calcite, also dedicated by Entemena, has been found at Nippur.

The eighth successor of Ur-Nin[=a] was Uru-duggina, who was overthrown and his city captured
by Lugal-zaggisi, the high-priest of Gis-ukh. Lugal-zaggisi was the founder of the first empire
in Asia of which we know. He made Erech his capital and calls himself king of Kengi. In a long
inscription which he caused to be engraved on hundreds of stone vases dedicated to El-lil of
Nippur, he declares that his kingdom extended "from the Lower Sea of the Tigris and Euphrates,"
or Persian Gulf, to "the Upper Sea" or Mediterranean. It was at this time that Erech received
the name of "the City," which it continued to bear when written ideographically.

[Sidenote: Sargon.]

Semitic Empire of Sargon of Akkad.--The next empire founded in western Asia was Semitic. Semitic
princes had already established themselves at Kis, and a long inscription has been discovered
at Susa by J. de Morgan, belonging to one of them, Manistusu, who like Lugal-zaggisi was a
contemporary of Uru-duggina. Another Semitic ruler of Kis of the same period was Alusarsid
(or Urumus) who "subdued Elam and Barahs[=e]." But the fame of these early establishers of
Semitic supremacy was far eclipsed by that of Sargon of Akkad and his son, Naram-Sin. The date
of Sargon is placed by Nabonidus at 3800 B.C. He was the son of Itti-Bel, and a legend related
how he had been born in concealment and sent adrift in an ark of bulrushes on the waters of
the Euphrates. Here he had been rescued and brought up by "Akki the husbandman"; but the day
arrived at length when his true origin became known, the crown of Babylonia was set upon his
head and he entered upon a career of foreign conquest. Four times he invaded Syria and Palestine,
and spent three years in thoroughly subduing the countries of "the west," and in uniting them
with Babylonia "into a single empire." Images of himself were erected on the shores of the
Mediterranean in token of his victories, and cities and palaces were built at home out of the
spoils of the conquered lands. Elam and the northern part of Mesopotamia were also subjugated,
and rebellions were put down both in Kazalla and in Babylonia itself. Contract tablets have
been found dated in the years of the campaigns against Palestine and Sarlak, king of Gutium
or Kurdistan, and copper is mentioned as being brought from Magan or the Sinaitic peninsula.

[Sidenote: Naram-Sin.]

Sargon's son and successor, Naram-Sin, followed up the successes of his father by marching
into Magan, whose king he took captive. He assumed the imperial title of "king of the four
zones," and, like his father, was addressed as a god. He is even called "the god of Agad[=e]"
(Akkad), reminding us of the divine honours claimed by the Pharaohs of Egypt, whose territory
now adjoined that of Babylonia. A finely executed bas-relief, representing Naram-Sin, and bearing
a striking resemblance to early Egyptian art in many of its features, has been found at Diarbekr.
Babylonian art, however, had already attained a high degree of excellence; two seal cylinders
of the time of Sargon are among the most beautiful specimens of the gem-cutter's art ever discovered.
The empire was bound together by roads, along which there was a regular postal service; and
clay seals, which took the place of stamps, are now in the Louvre bearing the names of Sargon
and his son. A cadastral survey seems also to have been instituted, and one of the documents
relating to it states that a certain Uru-Malik, whose name appears to indicate his Canaanitish
origin, was governor of the land of the Amorites, as Syria and Palestine were called by the
Babylonians. It is probable that the first collection of astronomical observations and terrestrial
omens was made for a library established by Sargon.

[Sidenote: Ur dynasty.]

Bingani-sar-ali was the son of Naram-Sin, but we do not yet know whether he followed his father
on the throne. Another son was high-priest of the city of Tutu, and in the name of his daughter,
Lipus-Eaum, a priestess of Sin, some scholars have seen that of the Hebrew deity Yahweh. The
Babylonian god Ea, however, is more likely to be meant. The fall of Sargon's empire seems to
have been as sudden as its rise. The seat of supreme power in Babylonia was shifted southwards
to Isin and Ur. It is generally assumed that two dynasties reigned at Ur and claimed suzerainty
over the other Babylonian states, though there is as yet no clear proof that there was more
than one. It was probably Gungunu who succeeded in transferring the capital of Babylonia from
Isin to Ur, but his place in the dynasty (or dynasties) is still uncertain. One of his successors
was Ur-Gur, a great builder, who built or restored the temples of the Moon-god at Ur, of the
Sun-god at Larsa, of Ishtar at Erech and of Bel at Nippur. His son and successor was Dungi,
whose reign lasted more than 51 years, and among whose vassals was Gudea, the patesi or high-priest
of Lagash. Gudea was also a great builder, and the materials for his buildings and statues
were brought from all parts of western Asia, cedar wood from the Amanus mountains, quarried
stones from Lebanon, copper from northern Arabia, gold and precious stones from the desert
between Palestine and Egypt, dolerite from Magan (the Sinaitic peninsula) and timber from Dilmun
in the Persian Gulf. Some of his statues, now in the Louvre, are carved out of Sinaitic dolerite,
and on the lap of one of them (statue E) is the plan of his palace, with the scale of measurement
attached. Six of the statues bore special names, and offerings were made to them as to the
statues of the gods. Gudea claims to have conquered Anshan in Elam, and was succeeded by his
son Ur-Ningirsu. His date may be provisionally fixed at 2700 B.C.

This dynasty of Ur was Semitic, not Sumerian, notwithstanding the name of Dungi. Dungi was
followed by Bur-Sin, Gimil-Sin, and Ibi-Sin. Their power extended to the Mediterranean, and
we possess a large number of contemporaneous monuments in the shape of contracts and similar
business documents, as well as chronological tables, which belong to their reigns.

[Sidenote: Khammurabi.]

After the fall of the dynasty, Babylonia passed under foreign influence. Sumuabi ("Shem is
my father"), from southern Arabia (or perhaps Canaan), made himself master of northern Babylonia,
while Elamite invaders occupied the south. After a reign of 14 years Sumuabi was succeeded
by his son Sumu-la-ilu, in the fifth year of whose reign the fortress of Babylon was built,
and the city became for the first time a capital. Rival kings, Pungun-ila and Immerum, are
mentioned in the contract tablets as reigning at the same time as Sumu-la-ilu (or Samu-la-ilu);
and under Sin-muballidh, the great-grandson of Sumu-la-ilu, the Elamites laid the whole of
the country under tribute, and made Eri-Aku or Arioch, called Rim-Sin by his Semitic subjects,
king of Larsa. Eri-Aku was the son of Kudur-Mabug, who was prince of Yamutbal, on the eastern
border of Babylonia, and also "governor of Syria." The Elamite supremacy was at last shaken
off by the son and successor of Sin-muballidh, Khammurabi, whose name is also written Ammurapi
and Khammuram, and who was the Amraphel of Gen. xiv. 1. The Elamites, under their king Kudur-Lagamar
or Chedor-laomer, seem to have taken Babylon and destroyed the temple of Bel-Merodach; but
Khammurabi retrieved his fortunes, and in the thirtieth year of his reign (in 2340 B.C.) he
overthrew the Elamite forces in a decisive battle and drove them out of Babylonia. The next
two years were occupied in adding Larsa and Yamutbal to his dominion, and in forming Babylonia
into a single monarchy, the head of which was Babylon. A great literary revival followed the
recovery of Babylonian independence, and the rule of Babylon was obeyed as far as the shores
of the Mediterranean. Vast numbers of contract tablets, dated in the reigns of Khammurabi and
other kings of the dynasty, have [v.03 p.0104] been discovered, as well as autograph letters
of the kings themselves, more especially of Khammurabi. Among the latter is one ordering the
despatch of 240 soldiers from Assyria and Situllum, a proof that Assyria was at the time a
Babylonian dependency. Constant intercourse was kept up between Babylonia and the west, Babylonian
officials and troops passing to Syria and Canaan, while "Amorite" colonists were established
in Babylonia for the purposes of trade. One of these Amorites, Abi-ramu or Abram by name, is
the father of a witness to a deed dated in the reign of Khammurabi's grandfather. Ammi-ditana,
the great-grandson of Khammurabi, still entitles himself "king of the land of the Amorites,"
and both his father and son bear the Canaanitish (and south Arabian) names of Abesukh or Abishua
and Ammi-zadok.

One of the most important works of this "First Dynasty of Babylon," as it was called by the
native historians, was the compilation of a code of laws (see BABYLONIAN LAW). This was made
by order of Khammurabi after the expulsion of the Elamites and the settlement of his kingdom.
A copy of the Code has been found at Susa by J. de Morgan and is now in the Louvre, The last
king of the dynasty was Samsu-ditana the son of Ammi-zadok. He was followed by a dynasty of
11 Sumerian kings, who are said to have reigned for 368 years, a number which must be much
exaggerated. As yet the name of only one of them has been found in a contemporaneous document.
They were overthrown and Babylonia was conquered by Kassites or Kossaeans from the mountains
of Elam, with whom Samsu-iluna had already come into conflict in his 9th year. The Kassite
dynasty was founded by Kandis, Gandis or Gaddas (about 1780 B.C.), and lasted for 576¾ years.
Under this foreign dominion, which offers a striking analogy to the contemporary rule of the
Hyksos in Egypt, Babylonia lost its empire over western Asia, Syria and Palestine became independent,
and the high-priests of Assur made themselves kings of Assyria. The divine attributes with
which the Semitic kings of Babylonia had been invested disappeared at the same time; the title
of "god" is never given to a Kassite sovereign. Babylon, however, remained the capital of the
kingdom and the holy city of western Asia, where the priests were all-powerful, and the right
to the inheritance of the old Babylonian empire could alone be conferred.

Rise of Assyria.--Under Khammurabi a Samsi-Hadad (or Samsi-Raman) seems to have been vassal-prince
at Assur, and the names of several of the high-priests of Assur who succeeded him have been
made known to us by the recent German excavations. The foundation of the monarchy was ascribed
to Zulilu, who is described as living after Bel-kapkapi or Belkabi (1900 B.C.), the ancestor
of Shalmaneser I. Assyria grew in power at the expense of Babylonia, and a time came when the
Kassite king of Babylonia was glad to marry the daughter of Assur-yuballidh of Assyria, whose
letters to Amenophis (Amon-hotep) IV. of Egypt have been found at Tell el-Amarna. The marriage,
however, led to disastrous results, as the Kassite faction at court murdered the king and placed
a pretender on the throne. Assur-yuballidh promptly marched into Babylonia and avenged his
son-in-law, making Burna-buryas of the royal line king in his stead. Burna-buryas, who reigned
22 years, carried on a correspondence with Amenophis IV. of Egypt. [Sidenote: Shalmaneser I.]
After his death, the Assyrians, who were still nominally the vassals of Babylonia, threw off
all disguise, and Shalmaneser I. (1300 B.C.), the great-great-grandson of Assur-yuballidh,
openly claimed the supremacy in western Asia. Shalmaneser was the founder of Calah, and his
annals, which have recently been discovered at Assur, show how widely extended the Assyrian
empire already was. Campaign after campaign was carried on against the Hittites and the wild
tribes of the north-west, and Assyrian colonists were settled in Cappadocia. His son Tukulti-In-aristi
conquered Babylon, putting its king Bitilyasu to death, and thereby made Assyria the mistress
of the oriental world. Assyria had taken the place of Babylonia.

For 7 years Tukulti-In-aristi ruled at Babylon with the old imperial title of "king of Sumer
and Akkad." Then the Babylonians revolted. The Assyrian king was murdered by his son, Assur-nazir-pal
I., and Hadad-nadin-akhi made king of Babylonia. But it was not until several years later,
in the reign of the Assyrian king Tukulti-Assur, that a reconciliation was effected between
the two rival kingdoms. The next Assyrian monarch, Bel-kudur-uzur, was the last of the old
royal line. He seems to have been slain fighting against the Babylonians, who were still under
the rule of Hadad-nadin-akhi, and a new dynasty was established at Assur by In-aristi-pileser,
who claimed to be a descendant of the ancient prince Erba-Raman. [Sidenote: Tiglath-pileser
I.] His fourth successor was Tiglath-pileser I., one of the great conquerors of Assyria, who
carried his arms towards Armenia on the north and Cappadocia on the west; he hunted wild bulls
in the Lebanon and was presented with a crocodile by the Egyptian king. In 1107 B.C., however,
he sustained a temporary defeat at the hands of Merodach-nadin-akhi (Marduk-nadin-akh[=e])
of Babylonia, where the Kassite dynasty had finally succumbed to Elamite attacks and a new
line of kings was on the throne.

[Sidenote: Assur-nazir-pal III.]

Of the immediate successors of Tiglath-pileser I. we know little, and it is with Assur-nazir-pal
III. (883-858 B.C.) that our knowledge of Assyrian history begins once more to be fairly full.
The empire of Assyria was again extended in all directions, and the palaces, temples and other
buildings raised by him bear witness to a considerable development of wealth and art. Calah
became the favourite residence of a monarch who was distinguished even among Assyrian conquerors
for his revolting cruelties. [Sidenote: Shalmaneser II.] His son Shalmaneser II. had a long
reign of 35 years, during which the Assyrian capital was converted into a sort of armed camp.
Each year the Assyrian armies marched out of it to plunder and destroy. Babylon was occupied
and the country reduced to vassalage. In the west the confederacy of Syrian princes headed
by Benhadad of Damascus and including Ahab of Israel (see JEWS, § 10) was shattered in 853
B.C., and twelve years later the forces of Hazael were annihilated and the ambassadors of Jehu
of Samaria brought tribute to "the great king." The last few years of his life, however, were
disturbed by the rebellion of his eldest son, which well-nigh proved fatal. Assur, Arbela and
other places joined the pretender, and the revolt was with difficulty put down by Samsi-Raman
(or Samsi-Hadad), Shalmaneser's second son, who soon afterwards succeeded him (824 B.C.). In
804 B.C. Damascus was captured by his successor Hadad-nirari IV., to whom tribute was paid
by Samaria.

[Sidenote: Nabu-nazir.]

With Nabu-nazir, the Nabonassar of classical writers, the so-called Canon of Ptolemy begins.
When he ascended the throne of Babylon in 747 B.C. Assyria was in the throes of a revolution.
Civil war and pestilence were devastating the country, and its northern provinces had been
wrested from it by Ararat. In 746 B.C. Calah joined the rebels, and on the 13th of Iyyar in
the following year, Pulu or Pul, who took the name of Tiglath-pileser III., seized the crown
and inaugurated a new and vigorous policy.

[Sidenote: Tiglath-pileser III.]

Second Assyrian Empire.--Under Tiglath-pileser III. arose the second Assyrian empire, which
differed from the first in its greater consolidation. For the first time in history the idea
of centralization was introduced into politics; the conquered provinces were organized under
an elaborate bureaucracy at the head of which was the king, each district paying a fixed tribute
and providing a military contingent. The Assyrian forces became a standing army, which, by
successive improvements and careful discipline, was moulded into an irresistible fighting machine,
and Assyrian policy was directed towards the definite object of reducing the whole civilized
world into a single empire and thereby throwing its trade and wealth into Assyrian hands. With
this object, after terrorizing Armenia and the Medes and breaking the power of the Hittites,
Tiglath-pileser III. secured the high-roads of commerce to the Mediterranean together with
the Phoenician seaports and then made himself master of Babylonia. In 729 B.C. the summit of
his ambition was attained, and he was invested with the sovereignty of Asia in the holy city
of Babylon. Two years later, in Tebet [v.03 p.0105] 727 B.C., he died, but his successor Ulul[=a],
who took the name of Shalmaneser IV., continued the policy he had begun. Shalmaneser died suddenly
in Tebet 722 B.C., while pressing the siege of Samaria, and the seizure of the throne by another
general, Sargon, on the 12th of the month, gave the Babylonians an opportunity to revolt. [Sidenote:
Merodach-baladan.] In Nisan the Kald[=a] prince, Merodach (Marduk)-baladan, entered Babylon
and was there crowned legitimate king. For twelve years he successfully resisted the Assyrians;
but the failure of his allies in the west to act in concert with him, and the overthrow of
the Elamites, eventually compelled him to fly to his ancestral domains in the marshes of southern
Babylonia. Sargon, who meanwhile had crushed the confederacy of the northern nations, had taken
(717 B.C.) the Hittite stronghold of Carchemish and had annexed the future kingdom of Ecbatana,
was now accepted as king by the Babylonian priests and his claim to be the successor of Sargon
of Akkad acknowledged up to the time of his murder in 705 B.C. [Sidenote: Sennacherib.] His
son Sennacherib, who succeeded him on the 12th of Ab, did not possess the military or administrative
abilities of his father, and the success of his reign was not commensurate with the vanity
of the ruler. He was never crowned at Babylon, which was in a perpetual state of revolt until,
in 691 B.C., he shocked the religious and political conscience of Asia by razing the holy city
of Babylon to the ground. His campaign against Hezekiah of Judah was as much a failure as his
policy in Babylonia, and in his murder by his sons on the 20th of Tebet 681 B.C. both Babylonians
and Jews saw the judgment of heaven.

[Sidenote: Esar-haddon.]

Esar-haddon, who succeeded him, was of different calibre from his father. He was commanding
the army in a campaign against Ararat at the time of the murder; forty-two days later the murderers
fled from Nineveh and took refuge at the court of Ararat.

One of his first acts was to restore Babylon, to send back the image of Bel-Merodach (Bel-Marduk)
to its old home, and to re-people the city with such of the priests and the former population
as had survived massacre. Then he was solemnly declared king in the temple of Bel-Merodach,
which had again risen from its ruins, and Babylon became the second capital of the empire.
Esar-haddon's policy was successful and Babylonia remained contentedly quiet throughout his
reign. In February (674 B.C.) the Assyrians entered upon their invasion of Egypt (see also
EGYPT: History), and in Nisan (or March) 670 B.C. an expedition on an unusually large scale
set out from Nineveh. The Egyptian frontier was crossed on the 3rd of Tammuz (June), and Tirhaka,
at the head of the Egyptian forces, was driven to Memphis after fifteen days of continuous
fighting, during which the Egyptians were thrice defeated with heavy loss and Tirhaka himself
was wounded. On the 22nd of the month Memphis was entered by the victorious army and Tirhaka
fled to the south. A stele, commemorating the victory and representing Tirhaka with the features
of a negro, was set up at Sinjirli (north of the Gulf of Antioch) and is now in the Berlin
Museum. [Sidenote: Assur-bani-pal.] Assur-bani-pal succeeded him as king of Assyria and its
empire, while his brother, Samas-sum-yukin, was made viceroy of Babylonia. The arrangement
was evidently intended to flatter the Babylonians by giving them once more the semblance of
independence. But it failed to work. Samas-sum-yukin became more Babylonian than his subjects;
the viceroy claimed to be the successor of the monarchs whose empire had once stretched to
the Mediterranean; even the Sumerian language was revived as the official tongue, and a revolt
broke out which shook the Assyrian empire to its foundations. After several years of struggle,
during which Egypt recovered its independence, Babylon was starved into surrender, and the
rebel viceroy and his supporters were put to death.

Egypt had already recovered its independence (660 B.C.) with the help of mercenaries sent by
Gyges of Lydia, who had vainly solicited aid from Assyria against his Cimmerian enemies. Next
followed the contest with Elam, in spite of the efforts of Assur-bani-pal to ward it off. Assyria,
however, was aided by civil war in Elam itself; the country was wasted with fire and sword,
and its capital Susa or Shushan levelled with the ground. But the long struggle left Assyria
maimed and exhausted. It had been drained of both wealth and fighting population; the devastated
provinces of Elam and Babylonia could yield nothing with which to supply the needs of the imperial
exchequer, and it was difficult to find sufficient troops even to garrison the conquered populations.
Assyria, therefore, was ill prepared to face the hordes of Scythians--or Manda, as they were
called by the Babylonians--who now began to harass the frontiers. A Scythian power had grown
up in the old kingdom of Ellip, to the east of Assyria, where Ecbatana was built by a "Manda"
prince; Asia Minor was infested by the Scythian tribe of Cimmerians, and the death of the Scythian
leader Dugdamm[=e] (the Lygdamis of Strabo i. 3. 16) was regarded by Assur-bani-pal as a special
mark of divine favour.

[Sidenote: Scythian influence.]

When Assur-bani-pal died, his empire was fast breaking up. Under his successor, Assur-etil-ilani,
the Scythians penetrated into Assyria and made their way as far as the borders of Egypt. Calah
was burned, though the strong walls of Nineveh protected the relics of the Assyrian army which
had taken refuge behind them; and when the raiders had passed on to other fields of booty,
a new palace was erected among the ruins of the neighbouring city. But its architectural poverty
and small size show that the resources of Assyria were at a low ebb. A contract has been found
at Sippara, dated in the fourth year of Assur-etil-ilani, though it is possible that his rule
in Babylonia was disputed by his Rab-shakeh (vizier), Assur-sum-lisir, whose accession year
as king of Assyria occurs on a contract from Nippur (Niffer). The last king of Assyria was
probably the brother of Assur-etil-ilani, Sin-sar-iskun (Sin-sarra-uzur), who seems to have
been the Sarakos (Saracus) of Berossus. He was still reigning in Babylonia in his seventh year,
as a contract dated in that year has been discovered at Erech, and an inscription of his, in
which he speaks of restoring the ruined temples and their priests, couples Merodach of Babylon
with Assur of Nineveh. Babylonia, however, was again restless. After the over throw of Samas-sum-yukin,
Kandalanu, the Chineladanos of Ptolemy's canon, had been appointed viceroy. [Sidenote: Nabopolassar.]
His successor was Nabopolassar, between whom and the last king of Assyria war broke out. The
Scythian king of Ecbatana, the Cyaxares of the Greeks, came to the help of the Babylonians.
Nineveh was captured and destroyed by the Scythian army, along with those cities of northern
Babylonia which had sided with Babylonia, and the Assyrian empire was at an end.

[Sidenote: Nabonidus.]

The seat of empire was now transferred to Babylonia. Nabopolassar was followed by his son Nebuchadrezzar
II., whose reign of 43 years made Babylon once more the mistress of the civilized world. Only
a small fragment of his annals has been discovered relating to his invasion of Egypt in 567
B.C., and referring to "Phut of the Ionians." Of the reign of the last Babylonian king, Nabonidus,
however, and the conquest of Babylonia by Cyrus, we now have a fair amount of information.[4]
This is chiefly derived from a chronological tablet containing the annals of Nabonidus, which
is supplemented by an inscription of Nabonidus, in which he recounts his restoration of the
temple of the Moon-god at Harran, as well as by a proclamation of Cyrus issued shortly after
his formal recognition as king of Babylonia. It was in the sixth year of Nabonidus (549 B.C.)--or
perhaps in 553--that Cyrus, "king of Anshan" in Elam, revolted against his suzerain Astyages,
king of "the Manda" or Scythians, at Ecbatana. The army of Astyages betrayed him to his enemy,
and Cyrus (q.v.) established himself at Ecbatana, thus putting an end to the empire of the
Scythians, [v.03 p.0106] which the Greek writers called that of the Medes, through a confusion
of Mad[=a] or "Medes" with Manda. [Sidenote: Invasion by Cyrus.] Three years later we find
that Cyrus has become king of Persia and is engaged in a campaign in the north of Mesopotamia.
Meanwhile Nabonidus has established a camp at Sippara, near the northern frontier of his kingdom,
his son--probably the Belshazzar of other inscriptions--being in command of the army. In 538
B.C. Cyrus invaded Babylonia. A battle was fought at Opis in the month of June, in which the
Babylonians were defeated, and immediately afterwards Sippara surrendered to the invader. Nabonidus
fled to Babylon, whither he was pursued by Gobryas, the governor of Kurdistan, and on the 16th
of Tammuz, two days after the capture of Sippara, "the soldiers of Cyrus entered Babylon without
fighting." Nabonidus was dragged out of his hiding-place, and Kurdish guards were placed at
the gates of the great temple of Bel, where the services continued without intermission. Cyrus
did not arrive till the 3rd of Marchesvan (October), Gobryas having acted for him in his absence.
Gobryas was now made governor of the province of Babylon, and a few days afterwards the son
of Nabonidus, according to the most probable reading, died. A public mourning followed, which
lasted six days, and Cambyses accompanied the corpse to the tomb. Cyrus now claimed to be the
legitimate successor of the ancient Babylonian kings and the avenger of Bel-Merodach, who was
wrathful at the impiety of Nabonidus in removing the images of the local gods from their ancestral
shrines to his capital Babylon. Nabonidus, in fact, had excited a strong feeling against himself
by attempting to centralize the religion of Babylonia in the temple of Merodach (Marduk) at
Babylon, and while he had thus alienated the local priesthoods the military party despised
him on account of his antiquarian tastes. He seems to have left the defence of his kingdom
to others, occupying himself with the more congenial work of excavating the foundation records
of the temples and determining the dates of their builders. The invasion of Babylonia by Cyrus
was doubtless facilitated by the existence of a disaffected party in the state, as well as
by the presence of foreign exiles like the Jews, who had been planted in the midst of the country.
One of the first acts of Cyrus accordingly was to allow these exiles to return to their own
homes, carrying with them the images of their gods and their sacred vessels. The permission
to do so was embodied in a proclamation, in which the conqueror endeavoured to justify his
claim to the Babylonian throne. The feeling was still strong that none had a right to rule
over western Asia until he had been consecrated to the office by Bel and his priests; and from
henceforth, accordingly, Cyrus assumed the imperial title of "king of Babylon." A year before
his death, in 529 B.C., he associated his son Cambyses (q.v.) in the government, making him
king of Babylon, while he reserved for himself the fuller title of "king of the (other) provinces"
of the empire. It was only when Darius Hystaspis, the representative of the Aryan race and
the Zoroastrian religion, had re-conquered the empire of Cyrus, that the old tradition was
broken and the claim of Babylon to confer legitimacy on the rulers of western Asia ceased to
be acknowledged (see DARIUS). Darius, in fact, entered Babylon as a conqueror; after the murder
of the Magian it had recovered its independence under Nidinta-Bel, who took the name of Nebuchadrezzar
III., and reigned from October 521 B.C. to August 520 B.C., when the Persians took it by storm.
A few years later, probably 514 B.C., Babylon again revolted under the Armenian Arakha; on
this occasion, after its capture by the Persians, the walls were partly destroyed. E-Saggila,
the great temple of Bel, however, still continued to be kept in repair and to be a centre of
Babylonian patriotism, until at last the foundation of Seleucia diverted the population to
the new capital of Babylonia and the ruins of the old city became a quarry for the builders
of the new seat of government.[5]

VI. Assyria and Babylonia contrasted.--The sister-states of Babylonia and Assyria differed
essentially in character. Babylonia was a land of merchants and agriculturists; Assyria was
an organized camp. The Assyrian dynasties were founded [v.03 p.0107] by successful generals;
in Babylonia it was the priests whom a revolution raised to the throne. The Babylonian king
remained a priest to the last, under the control of a powerful hierarchy; the Assyrian king
was the autocratic general of an army, at whose side stood in early days a feudal nobility,
and from the reign of Tiglath-pileser III. onwards an elaborate bureaucracy. His palace was
more sumptuous than the temples of the gods, from which it was quite separate. The people were
soldiers and little else; even the sailor belonged to Babylonia. Hence the sudden collapse
of Assyria when drained of its fighting population in the age of Assur-bani-pal.

VII. Assyro-Babylonian Culture.--Assyrian culture came from Babylonia, but even here there
was a difference between the two countries. There was little in Assyrian literature that was
original, and education, which was general in Babylonia, was in the northern kingdom confined
for the most part to a single class. In Babylonia it was of very old standing. There were libraries
in most of the towns and temples; an old Sumerian proverb averred that "he who would excel
in the school of the scribes must rise with the dawn." Women as well as men learned to read
and write, and in Semitic times this involved a knowledge of the extinct Sumerian as well as
of a most complicated and extensive syllabary. A considerable amount of Semitic Babylonian
literature was translated from Sumerian originals, and the language of religion and law long
continued to be the old agglutinative language of Chaldaea. Vocabularies, grammars and interlinear
translations were compiled for the use of students as well as commentaries on the older texts
and explanations of obscure words and phrases. The characters of the syllabary were all arranged
and named, and elaborate lists of them were drawn up. The literature was for the most part
inscribed with a metal stylus on tablets of clay, called laterculae coctiles by Pliny; the
papyrus which seems to have been also employed has perished. Under the second Assyrian empire,
when Nineveh had become a great centre of trade, Aramaic--the language of commerce and diplomacy--was
added to the number of subjects which the educated class was required to learn. Under the Seleucids
Greek was introduced into Babylon, and fragments of tablets have been found with Sumerian and
Assyrian (i.e. Semitic Babylonian) words transcribed in Greek letters.

Babylonian Literature and Science.--There were many literary works the titles of which have
come down to us. One of the most famous of these was the Epic of Gilgamesh, in twelve books,
composed by a certain Sin-liqi-unninni, and arranged upon an astronomical principle. Each division
contains the story of a single adventure in the career of Gilgamesh. The whole story is a composite
product, and it is possible that some of the stories are artificially attached to the central
figure. (See GILGAMESH, EPIC OF.)

Another epic was that of the Creation, the object of which was to glorify Bel-Merodach by describing
his contest with Tiamat, the dragon of chaos. In the first book an account is given of the
creation of the world out of the primeval deep and the birth of the gods of light. Then comes
the story of the struggle between the gods of light and the powers of darkness, and the final
victory of Merodach, who clove Tiamat asunder, forming the heaven out of one half of her body
and the earth out of the other. Merodach next arranged the stars in order, along with the sun
and moon, and gave them laws which they were never to transgress. After this the plants and
animals were created, and finally man. Merodach here takes the place of Ea, who appears as
the creator in the older legends, and is said to have fashioned man out of the clay.

The legend of Adapa, the first man, a portion of which was found in the record-office of the
Egyptian king Amenophis IV. (Akhenaton) at Tell-el-Amarna, explains the origin of death. Adapa
while fishing had broken the wings of the south wind, and was accordingly summoned before the
tribunal of Anu in heaven. Ea counselled him not to eat or drink there. He followed the advice,
and thus refused the food which would have made him and his descendants immortal.

Among the other legends of Babylonia may be mentioned those of Namtar, the plague-demon, of
Urra, the pestilence, of Etanna and of Zu. Hades, the abode of Nin-erisgal or Allat, had been
entered by Nergal, who, angered by a message sent to her by the gods of the upper world, ordered
Namtar to strike off her head. She, however, declared that she would submit to any conditions
imposed on her and would give Nergal the sovereignty of the earth. Nergal accordingly relented,
and Allatu became the queen of the infernal world. Etanna conspired with the eagle to fly to
the highest heaven. The first gate, that of Anu, was successfully reached; but in ascending
still farther to the gate of Ishtar the strength of the eagle gave way, and Etanna was dashed
to the ground. As for the storm-god Zu, we are told that he stole the tablets of destiny, and
therewith the prerogatives of Bel. God after god was ordered to pursue him and recover them,
but it would seem that it was only by a stratagem that they were finally regained.

Besides the purely literary works there were others of the most varied nature, including collections
of letters, partly official, partly private. Among them the most interesting are the letters
of Khammurabi, which have been edited by L. W. King. Astronomy and astrology, moreover, occupy
a conspicuous place. Astronomy was of old standing in Babylonia, and the standard work on the
subject, written from an astrological point of view, which was translated into Greek by Berossus,
was believed to go back to the age of Sargon of Akkad. The zodiac was a Babylonian invention
of great antiquity; and eclipses of the sun as well as of the moon could be foretold. Observatories
were attached to the temples, and reports were regularly sent by the astronomers to the king.
The stars had been numbered and named at an early date, and we possess tables of lunar longitudes
and observations of the phases of Venus. In Seleucid and Parthian times the astronomical reports
were of a thoroughly scientific character; how far the advanced knowledge and method they display
may reach back we do not yet know. Great attention was naturally paid to the calendar, and
we find a week of seven and another of five days in use. The development of astronomy implies
considerable progress in mathematics; it is not surprising, therefore, that the Babylonians
should have invented an extremely simple method of ciphering or have discovered the convenience
of the duodecimal system. The ner of 600 and the sar of 3600 were formed from the soss or unit
of 60, which corresponded with a degree of the equator. Tablets [v.03 p.0108] of squares and
cubes, calculated from 1 to 60, have been found at Senkera, and a people who were acquainted
with the sun-dial, the clepsydra, the lever and the pulley, must have had no mean knowledge
of mechanics. A crystal lens, turned on the lathe, was discovered by Layard at Nimrud along
with glass vases bearing the name of Sargon; this will explain the excessive minuteness of
some of the writing on the Assyrian tablets, and a lens may also have been used in the observation
of the heavens.

Art and Architecture.--The culture of Assyria, and still more of Babylonia, was essentially
literary; we miss in it the artistic spirit of Egypt or Greece. In Babylonia the abundance
of clay and want of stone led to the employment of brick; the Babylonian temples are massive
but shapeless structures of crude brick, supported by buttresses, the rain being carried off
by drains, one of which at Ur was of lead. The use of brick led to the early development of
the pilaster and column, as well as of frescoes and enamelled tiles. The walls were brilliantly
coloured, and sometimes plated with bronze or gold as well as with tiles. Painted terra-cotta
cones were also embedded in the plaster. Assyria in this, as in other matters, the servile
pupil of Babylonia, built its palaces and temples of brick, though stone was the natural building
material of the country, even preserving the brick platform, so necessary in the marshy soil
of Babylonia, but little needed in the north. As time went on, however, the later Assyrian
architect began to shake himself free from Babylonian influences and to employ stone as well
as brick. The walls of the Assyrian palaces were lined with sculptured and coloured slabs of
stone, instead of being painted as in Chaldaea. We can. trace three periods in the art of these
bas-reliefs; it is vigorous but simple under Assur-nazir-pal III., careful and realistic under
Sargon, refined but wanting in boldness under Assur-bani-pal. In Babylonia, in place of the
bas-relief we have the figure in the round, the earliest examples being the statues from Tello
which are realistic but somewhat clumsy. The want of stone in Babylonia made every pebble precious
and led to a high perfection in the art of gem-cutting. Nothing can be better than two seal-cylinders
that have come down to us from the age of Sargon of Akkad. No remarkable specimens of the metallurgic
art of an early period have been found, apart perhaps from the silver vase of Entemena, but
at a later epoch great excellence was attained in the manufacture of such jewellery as ear-rings
and bracelets of gold. Copper, too, was worked with skill; indeed, it is possible that Babylonia
was the original home of copper-working, which spread westward with the civilization to which
it belonged. At any rate the people were famous from an early date for their embroideries and
rugs. The ceramic history of Babylonia and Assyria has unfortunately not yet been traced; at
Susa alone has the care demanded by the modern methods of archaeology been as yet expended
on examining and separating the pottery found in the excavations, and Susa is not Babylonia.
We do not even know the date of the spirited terra-cotta reliefs discovered by Loftus and Rawlinson.
The forms of Assyrian pottery, however, are graceful; the porcelain, like the glass discovered
in the palaces of Nineveh, was derived from Egyptian originals. Transparent glass seems to
have been first introduced in the reign of Sargon. Stone as well as clay and glass were employed
in the manufacture of vases, and vases of hard stone have been disinterred at Tello similar
to those of the early dynastic period of Egypt.

Social Life.--Castes were unknown in both Babylonia and Assyria, but the priesthood of Babylonia
found its counterpart in the military aristocracy of Assyria. The priesthood was divided into
a great number of classes, among which that of the doctors may be reckoned. The army was raised,
at all events in part, by conscription; a standing army seems to have been first organized
in Assyria. Successive improvements were introduced into it by the kings of the second Assyrian
empire; chariots were superseded by cavalry; Tiglath-pileser III. gave the riders saddles and
high boots, and Sennacherib created a corps of slingers. Tents, baggage-carts and battering-rams
were carried on the march, and the tartan or commander-in-chief ranked next to the king. In
both countries there was a large body of slaves; above them came the agriculturists and commercial
classes, who were, however, comparatively little numerous in Assyria. The scribes, on the other
hand, formed a more important class in Assyria than in Babylonia. Both countries had their
artisans, money-lenders, poets and musicians.

The houses of the people contained but little furniture; chairs, tables and couches, however,
were used, and Assur-bani-pal is represented as reclining on his couch at a meal while his
wife sits on a chair beside him. After death the body was usually partially cremated along
with the objects that had been buried with it. The cemetery adjoined the city of the living
and was laid out in streets through which ran rivulets of "pure" water. Many of the tombs,
which were built of crude brick, were provided with gardens, and there were shelves or altars
on which were placed the offerings to the dead. As the older tombs decayed a fresh city of
tombs arose on their ruins. It is remarkable that thus far no cemetery older than the Seleucid
or Parthian period has been found in Assyria.

AUTHORITIES.--See A. H. Layard, Nineveh and Babylon (1853); E. de Sarzec and L. Heuzey, Découvertes
en Chaldée (1884 foll.); H. V. Hilprecht, The Babylonian Expedition of the University of Pennsylvania
(1893 foll.); J. P. Peters, Nippur (1897); E. Schrader, Keilinschriftliche Bibliothek (1889-1900);
Records of the Past (new series, 1888-1892); Th. G. Pinches, "The Babylonian Chronicle," in Journ.

(A. H. S.)

VIII. Chronological Systems.--The extreme divergence in the chronological schemes employed
by different writers on the history of Babylonia and Assyria has frequently caused no small
perplexity to readers who have no special knowledge of the subject. In this section an attempt
is made to indicate briefly the causes which have led to so great a diversity of opinion, and
to describe in outline the principles underlying the chief schemes of chronology that have
been suggested; a short account will then be given of the latest discoveries in this branch
of research, and of the manner in which they affect the problems at issue. It will be convenient
to begin with the later historical periods, and then to push our inquiry back into the earlier
periods of Babylonian and Sumerian history.

Up to certain points no difference of opinion exists upon the dates to be assigned to the later
kings who ruled in Babylon and in Assyria. The Ptolemaic Canon (see sect. II.) gives a list
of the Babylonian, Assyrian and Persian kings who ruled in Babylon, together with the number
of years each of them reigned, from the accession of Nabonassar in 747 B.C. to the conquest
of Babylon by Alexander the Great in 331 B.C. The accuracy of this list is confirmed by the
larger List of Kings and by the principal Babylonian Chronicle; the latter, like the Canon,
begins with the reign of Nabonassar, who, it has been suggested, may have revised the calendar
and have inaugurated a new epoch for the later chronology. The Ptolemaic Canon is further controlled
and its accuracy confirmed by the Assyrian Eponym Lists, or lists of limmi (see sect. II.),
by means of which Assyrian chronology is fixed from 911 B.C. to 666 B.C., the solar eclipse
of June 15th, 763 B.C., which is recorded in the eponymy of Pur-Sagale, placing the dead reckoning
for these later periods upon an absolutely certain basis.

Thus all historians are agreed with regard to the Babylonian chronology back to the year 747
B.C., and with regard to that of Assyria back to the year 911 B.C. It is in respect of the
periods anterior to these two dates that different writers have propounded differing systems
of chronology, and, as might be imagined, the earlier the period we examine the greater becomes
the discrepancy between the systems proposed. This variety of opinion is due to the fact that
the data available for settling the chronology often conflict with one another, or are capable
of more than one interpretation.

Since its publication in 1884 the Babylonian List of Kings has furnished the framework for
every chronological system that has [v.03 p.0109] been proposed. In its original form this
document gave a list, arranged in dynasties, of the Babylonian kings, from the First Dynasty
of Babylon down to the Neo-Babylonian period. If the text were complete we should probably
be in possession of the system of Babylonian chronology current in the Neo-Babylonian period
from which our principal classical authorities (see sect. II.) derived their information. The
principal points of uncertainty, due to gaps in the text, concern the length of Dynasties IV.
and VIII.; for the reading of the figure giving the length of the former is disputed, and the
summary at the close of the latter omits to state its length. This omission is much to be regretted,
since Nabonassar was the last king but two of this dynasty, and, had we known its duration,
we could have combined the information on the earlier periods furnished by the Kings' List
with the evidence of the Ptolemaic Canon. In addition to the Kings' List, other important chronological
data consist of references in the classical authorities to the chronological system of Berossus
(q.v.); chronological references to earlier kings occurring in the later native inscriptions,
such as Nabonidus's estimate of the period of Khammurabi (or Hammuribi); synchronisms, also
furnished by the inscriptions, between kings of Babylon and of Assyria; and the early Babylonian
date-lists.

                              Dyn. I.        Dyn. II.         Dyn. III.
                             ---------       --------        ------------
                                 B.C.           B.C.             B.C.
  Oppert         (1888)      2506-2202       2202-1834        1834-1257
  Sayce          (1899)      2478-(2174)     2174-(1806)      1806-(1229)
    "            (1902)      2460-(2174)     2174-(1806)      1806-(1229)
  Rogers         (1900)      2454-2451       2150-1783        1782-1207
  Winckler       (1894)     (2425-2120)      2120-1752        1752-1177
    "            (1892)      2403-2098       2098-1730        1729-1150
    "            (1905)   c. 2400-2100    c. 2100-1700     c. 1700-1150
  Delitzsch      (1907)   c. 2420-2120    c. 2120-(1752)     (1752-1176)
    "            (1891)      2399-2094       2094-1726        1726-1150
  Maspero        (1897)      2416-2082       2082-1714        1714-(1137)
  Lehmann-Haupt  (1898)      2360-2057       2056-1689        1688-1113
    "      "     (1903)      2296-2009/8   2008/7-1691        1690-1115
  Marquart       (1899)      2335-2051     2051/0-1694/3    1693/2-1118/7
  Peiser         (1891)      2051-1947       1947-1579        1579-1180
  Rost           (1897)      2232-1928       1928-1560        1560-1224
    "            (1900)      2231-1941       1940-1573        1572-1179
  Hommel         (1901)      2223-1923      (1923-1752)       1752-1175
                          or 2050-1752        "     "
    "            (1895)      2058-1754                        1753-1178
    "            (1886)      2035-1731       2403-2035        1731-1154
                 (1898)      1884-1580                        1580-1180
  Niebuhr        (1896)      2193-1889       2114-1746        1746-1169

In view of the uncertainty regarding the length of Dynasties IV. and VIII. of the Kings' List,
attempts have been made to ascertain the dates of the earlier dynasties by independent means.
The majority of writers, after fixing the date at which Dynasty III. closed by means of the
synchronisms and certain of the later chronological references, have accepted the figures of
the Kings' List for the earlier dynasties, ignoring their apparent inconsistencies with the
system of Berossus and with the chronology of Nabonidus. Others have attempted to reconcile
the conflicting data by emendations of the figures and other ingenious devices. This will explain
the fact that while the difference between the earliest and latest dates suggested for the
close of Dynasty III. is only 144 years, the difference between the earliest and latest dates
suggested for the beginning of Dynasty I. is no less than 622 years. A comparison of the principal
schemes of chronology that have been propounded may be made by means of the preceding table.
The first column gives the names of the writers and the dates at which their schemes were published,
while the remaining columns give the dates they have suggested for Dynasties I., II. and III.
of the Kings' List.[6] The systems with the highest dates are placed first in the list; where
a writer has produced more than one system, these are grouped together, the highest dates proposed
by him determining his place in the series.

Omitting that of Oppert, which to some extent stands in a category by itself, the systems fall
into three groups. The first group, comprising the second to the sixth names, obtains its results
by selecting the data on which it relies and ignoring others. The second group, comprising
the next four names, attempts to reconcile the conflicting data by emending the figures. The
third group, consisting of the last two names, is differentiated by its proposals with regard
to Dynasty II. It will be noted that the first group has obtained higher dates than the second,
and the second group higher dates on the whole than the third.

Oppert's system[7] represents the earliest dates that have been suggested. He accepted the
figures of the Kings' List and claimed that he reconciled them with the figures of Berossus,
though he ignored the later chronological notices. But there is no evidence for his "cyclic
date" of 2517 B.C., on which his system depended, and there is little doubt that the beginning
of the historical period of Berossus is to be set, not in 2506 B.C., but in 2232 B.C. The two
systems of Sayce,[8] that of Rogers,[9] the three systems of Winckler,[10] both those of Delitzsch,[11]
and that of Maspero,[12] may be grouped together, for they are based on the same principle.
Having first fixed the date of the close of Dynasty III., they employed the figures of the
Kings' List unemended for defining the earlier periods, and did not attempt to reconcile their
results with other conflicting data. The difference of eighteen years in Sayce's two dates
for the rise of Dynasty I. was due to his employing in 1902 the figures assigned to the first
seven kings of the dynasty upon the larger of the two contemporary date-lists, which had meanwhile
been published, in place of those given by the List of Kings. It should be noted that Winckler
(1905) and Delitzsch (1907) gives the dates only in round numbers.

A second group of systems may be said to consist of those proposed by Lehmann-Haupt, Marquart,
Peiser, and Rost, for these writers attempted to get over the discrepancies in the data by
emending some of the figures furnished by the inscriptions. In 1891, with the object of getting
the total duration of the dynasties to agree with the chronological system of Berossus and
with the statement of Nabonidus concerning Khammurabi's date, Peiser proposed to emend the
figure given by the Kings' List for the length of Dynasty III. The reading of "9 soss and 36
years," which gives the total 576 years, he suggested was a scribal error for "6 soss and 39
years"; he thus reduced the length of Dynasty III. by 177 years and effected a corresponding
reduction in the dates assigned to Dynasties I. and II.[13] In 1897 Rost followed up Peiser's
suggestion by reducing the figure still further, but he counteracted to some extent the effects
of this additional reduction by emending Sennacherib's date for Marduk-nadin-akh[=e]'s defeat
of Tiglath-pileser I. as engraved on the rock at Bavian, holding that the figure "418," as
engraved upon the rock, was a mistake for "478."[14] Lehmann-Haupt's first system (1898) resembled
those of Oppert, Sayce, Rogers, Winckler, Delitzsch and Maspero in that he accepted the figures
of the Kings' List, and did not attempt to emend them. But he obtained his low date for the
close of Dynasty III. by emending [v.03 p.0110] Sennacherib's figure in the Bavian inscription;
this he reduced by a hundred years,[15] instead of increasing it by sixty as Rost had suggested.
Lehmann-Haupt's influence is visible in Marquart's system, published in the following year;[16]
it may be noted that his slightly reduced figure for the beginning of Dynasty I. was arrived
at by incorporating the new information supplied by the first date-list to be published. When
revising his scheme of chronology in 1900, Rost abandoned his suggested emendation of Sennacherib's
figure, but by decreasing his reduction of the length of Dynasty III., he only altered his
date for the beginning of Dynasty I. by one year.[17] In his revised scheme of chronology,
published in 1903,[18] Lehmann-Haupt retained his emendation of Sennacherib's figure, and was
in his turn influenced by Marquart's method of reconciling the dynasties of Berossus with the
Kings' List. He continued to accept the figure of the Kings' List for Dynasty III., but he
reduced the length of Dynasty II. by fifty years, arguing that the figures assigned to some
of the reigns were improbably high. His slight reduction in the length of Dynasty I. was obtained
from the recently published date-lists, though his proposed reduction of Ammizaduga's reign
to ten years has since been disproved.

A third group of systems comprises those proposed by Hommel and Niebuhr, for their reductions
in the date assigned to Dynasty I. were effected chiefly by their treatment of Dynasty II.
In his first system, published in 1886,[19] Hommel, mainly with the object of reducing Khammurabi's
date, reversed the order of the first two dynasties of the Kings' List, placing Dynasty II.
before Dynasty I. In his second and third systems (1895 and 1898),[20] and in his second alternative
scheme of 1901 (see below), he abandoned this proposal and adopted a suggestion of Halévy that
Dynasty III. followed immediately after Dynasty I.; Dynasty II., he suggested, had either synchronized
with Dynasty I., or was mainly apocryphal (eine spätere Geschichtskonstruction). Niebuhr's
system was a modification of Hommel's second theory, for, instead of entirely ignoring Dynasty
II., he reduced its independent existence to 143 years, making it overlap Dynasty I. by 225
years.[21] The extremely low dates proposed by Hommel in 1898 were due to his adoption of Peiser's
emendation for the length of Dynasty III., in addition to his own elimination of Dynasty II.
In 1901 Hommel abandoned Peiser's emendation and suggested two alternative schemes.[22] According
to one of these he attempted to reconcile Berossus with the Kings' List by assigning to Dynasty
II. an independent existence of some 171 years, while as a possible alternative he put forward
what was practically his theory of 1895.

Such are the principles underlying the various chronological schemes which had, until recently,
been propounded. The balance of opinion was in favour of those of the first group of writers,
who avoided emendations of the figures and were content to follow the Kings' List and to ignore
its apparent discrepancies with other chronological data; but it is now admitted that the general
principle underlying the third group of theories was actually nearer the truth. The publication
of fresh chronological material in 1906 and 1907 placed a new complexion on the problems at
issue, and enabled us to correct several preconceptions, and to reconcile or explain the apparently
conflicting data.

From a Babylonian chronicle in the British Museum[23] we now know that Dynasty II. of the Kings'
List never occupied the throne of Babylon, but ruled only in the extreme south of Babylonia
on the shores of the Persian Gulf; that its kings were contemporaneous with the later kings
of Dynasty I. and with the earlier kings of Dynasty III. of the Kings' List; that in the reign
of Samsu-ditana, the last king of Dynasty I., Hittites from Cappadocia raided and captured
Babylon, which in her weakened state soon fell a prey to the Kassites (Dynasty III.); and that
later on southern Babylonia, till then held by Dynasty II. of the Kings' List, was in its turn
captured by the Kassites, who from that time onward occupied the whole of the Babylonian plain.
The same chronicle informs us that Ilu-sh[=u]ma, an early Assyrian patesi, was the contemporary
of Su-abu, the founder of Dynasty I. of the Kings' List, thus enabling us to trace the history
of Assyria back beyond the rise of Babylon.

Without going into details, the more important results of this new information may be summarized:
the elimination of Dynasty II. from the throne of Babylon points to a date not much earlier
than 2000 or 2050 B.C. for the rise of Dynasty I., a date which harmonizes with the chronological
notices of Shalmaneser I.; Nabonidus's estimate of the period of Khammurabi, so far from being
centuries too low, is now seen to have been exaggerated, as the context of the passage in his
inscription suggests; and finally the beginning of the historical period of Berossus is not
to be synchronized with Dynasty I. of the Kings' List, but, assuming that his figures had an
historical basis and that they have come down to us in their original form, with some earlier
dynasty which may possibly have had its capital in one of the other great cities of Babylonia
(such as the Dynasty of Isin).

New data have also been discovered bearing upon the period before the rise of Babylon. A fragment
of an early dynastic chronicle from Nippur[24] gives a list of the kings of the dynasties of
Ur and Isin. From this text we learn that the Dynasty of Ur consisted of five kings and lasted
for 117 years, and was succeeded by the Dynasty of Isin, which consisted of sixteen kings and
lasted for 225½ years. Now the capture of the city of Isin by R[=i]m-Sin, which took place
in the seventeenth year of Sin-muballit, the father of Khammurabi, formed an epoch for dating
tablets in certain parts of Babylonia,[25] and it is probable that we may identify the fall
of the Dynasty of Isin with this capture of the city. In that case the later rulers of the
Dynasty of Isin would have been contemporaneous with the earlier rulers of Dynasty I. of the
Kings' List, and we obtain for the rise of the Dynasty of Ur a date not much earlier than 2300 B.C.

These considerable reductions in the dates of the earlier dynasties of Babylonia necessarily
react upon our estimate of the age of Babylonian civilization. The very high dates of 5000
or 6000 B.C., formerly assigned by many writers to the earliest remains of the Sumerians and
the Babylonian Semites,[26] depended to a great extent on the statement of Nabonidus that 3200
years separated his own age from that of Nar[=a]m-Sin, the son of Sargon of Agade; for to Sargon,
on this statement alone, a date of 3800 B.C. has usually been assigned. But even by postulating
the highest possible dates for the Dynasties of Babylon and Ur, enormous gaps occurred in the
scheme of chronology, which were unrepresented by any royal name or record. In his valiant
attempt to fill these gaps Radau was obliged to invent kings and even dynasties,[27] the existence
of which is now definitely disproved. The statement of Nabonidus has not, however, been universally
accepted. Lehmann-Haupt suggested an emendation of the text, reducing the number by a thousand
years;[28] while Winckler has regarded the statement of Nabonidus as an uncritical exaggeration.[29]
Obviously the scribes of Nabonidus were not anxious to diminish the antiquity of the foundation-inscription
of Nar[=a]m-Sin, which their royal master had unearthed; [v.03 p.0111] and another reason for
their calculations resulting in so high a figure is suggested by the recent discoveries: they
may in all good faith have reckoned as consecutive a number of early dynasties which were as
a matter of fact contemporaneous. But, though we may refuse to accept the accuracy of this
figure of Nabonidus, it is not possible at present to fix a definite date for the early kings
of Agade. All that can be said is that both archaeological and epigraphic evidence indicates
that no very long interval separated the empire of the Semitic kings of Agade from that of
the kings of Sumer and Akkad, whose rule was inaugurated by the founding of the Dynasty of Ur.[30]

To use caution in accepting the chronological notices of the later kings is very far removed
from suggesting emendations of their figures. The emenders postulate mechanical errors in the
writing of the figures, but, equally with those who accept them, regard the calculations of
the native scribes as above reproach. But that scribes could make mistakes in their reckoning
is definitely proved by the discovery at Shergat of two totally conflicting accounts of the
age and history of the great temple of Assur.[31] This discovery in itself suggests that all
chronological data are not to be treated as of equal value and arranged mechanically like the
pieces of a Chinese puzzle; and further, that no more than a provisional acceptance should
be accorded any statement of the later native chronologists, until confirmed by contemporary
records. On the other hand, the death-blow has been given to the principle of emendation of
the figures, which for so long has found favour among a considerable body of German writers.

(L. W. K.)

IX. Proper Names.--In the early days of the decipherment of the cuneiform inscriptions, the
reading of the proper names borne by Babylonians and Assyrians occasioned great difficulties;
and though most of these difficulties have been overcome and there is general agreement among
scholars as to the principles underlying both the formation and the pronunciation of the thousands
of names that we encounter in historical records, business documents, votive inscriptions and
literary productions, differences, though mostly of a minor character, still remain. Some time
must elapse before absolute uniformity in the transliteration of these proper names is to be
expected; and since different scholars still adopt varying spellings of Babylonian and Assyrian
proper names, it has been considered undesirable in this work to ignore the fact in individual
articles contributed by them. The better course seems to be to explain here the nature of these
variations.

The main difficulty in the reading of Babylonian and Assyrian proper names arises from the
preference given to the "ideographic" method of writing them. According to the developed cuneiform
system of writing, words may be written by means of a sign (or combination of signs) expressive
of the entire word, or they may be spelled out phonetically in syllables. So, for example,
the word for "name" may be written by a sign MU, or it may be written cut by two signs shu-mu,
the one sign MU representing the "Sumerian" word for "name," which, however, in the case of
a Babylonian or Assyrian text must be read as shumu--the Semitic equivalent of the Sumerian
MU. Similarly the word for "clothing" may be written SIG-BA, which represents again the "Sumerian"
word, whereas, the Babylonian-Assyrian equivalent being lubushtu it is so to be read in Semitic
texts, and may therefore be also phonetically written lu-bu-ush-tu. This double method of writing
words arises from the circumstance that the cuneiform syllabary is of non-Semitic origin, the
system being derived from the non-Semitic settlers of the Euphrates valley, commonly termed
Sumerians (or Sumero-Akkadians), to whom, as the earlier settlers, the origin of the cuneiform
script is due. This script, together with the general Sumerian culture, was taken over by the
Babylonians upon their settlement in the Euphrates valley and adapted to their language, which
belonged to the Semitic group. In this transfer the Sumerian words--largely monosyllabic--were
reproduced, but read as Semitic, and at the same time the advance step was taken of utilizing
the Sumerian words as means of writing the Babylonian words phonetically. In this case the
signs representing Sumerian words were treated merely as syllables, and, without reference
to their meaning, utilized for spelling Babylonian words. The Babylonian syllabary which thus
arose, and which, as the culture passed on to the north--known as Assyria--became the Babylonian
Assyrian syllabary,[32] was enlarged and modified in the course of time, the Semitic equivalents
for many of the signs being distorted or abbreviated to form the basis of new "phonetic" values
that were thus of "Semitic" origin; but, on the whole, the "non-Semitic" character of the signs
used as syllables in the phonetic method of writing Semitic words was preserved; and, furthermore,
down to the latest days of the Babylonian and Assyrian empires the mixed method of writing
continued, though there were periods when "purism" was the fashion, and there was a more marked
tendency to spell out the words laboriously in preference to using signs with a phonetic complement
as an aid in suggesting the reading desired in any given instance. Yet, even in those days,
the Babylonian syllabary continued to be a mixture of ideographic and phonetic writing. Besides
the conventional use of certain signs as the indications of names of gods, countries, cities,
vessels, birds, trees, &c., which, known as "determinants," are the Sumerian signs of the terms
in question and were added as a guide for the reader, proper names more particularly continued
to be written to a large extent in purely "ideographic" fashion. The conservatism which is
a feature of proper names everywhere, in consequence of which the archaic traits of a language
are frequently preserved in them, just as they are preserved in terms used in the ritual and
in poetic diction, is sufficient to account for the interesting fact that the Semitic settlers
of the Euphrates valley in handing down their names from one generation to another retained
the custom of writing them in "Sumerian" fashion, or, as we might also put it, in "ideographic"
form. Thus the name of the deity, which enters as an element in a large proportion of the proper
names,[33] was almost invariably written with the sign or signs representing this deity, and
it is only exceptionally that the name is spelled phonetically. Thus the name of the chief
god of the Babylonian pantheon, Marduk, is written by two signs to be pronounced AMAR-UD, which
describe the god as the "young bullock of the day"--an allusion to the solar character of the
god in question. The moon-god Sin is written by a sign which has the force of "thirty," and
is a distinct reference to the monthly course of the planet; or the name is written by two
signs to be pronounced EN-ZU, which describe the god as the "lord of wisdom." The god Nebo
appears as PA--the sign of the stylus, which is associated with this deity as the originator
and patron of writing and of knowledge in general,--or it is written with a sign AK, which
describes the god as a "creator."

Until, therefore, through parallel passages or through explanatory lists prepared by the Babylonian
and Assyrian scribes in large numbers as an aid for the study of the language,[34] the exact
phonetic reading of these divine names was determined, scholars remained in doubt or had recourse
to conjectural or provisional readings. Even at the present time there are many names of deities,
as, e.g. Ninib, the phonetic reading of which is still unknown or uncertain. In most cases,
however, these belong to the category of minor deities or represent old local gods assimilated
to some more powerful god, who absorbed, as it were, the attributes and prerogatives of these
minor ones. In many cases they will probably turn out to be descriptive epithets of gods [v.03
p.0112] already known rather than genuine proper names. A peculiar difficulty arises in the
case of the god of storms, who, written IM, was generally known in Babylonia as Ramman, "the
thunderer," whereas in Assyria he also had the designation Adad. In many cases, therefore,
we may be in doubt how the sign IM is to be read, more particularly since this same god appears
to have had other designations besides Ramman and Adad.

Besides the divine element, proper names as a rule in the Babylonian-Assyrian periods had a
verbal form attached and a third element representing an object. Even when the sign indicative
of the verb is clearly recognised there still remains to be determined the form of the verb
intended. Thus in the case of the sign KUR, which is the equivalent of na[s.][=a]ru, "protect,"
there is the possibility of reading it as the active participle n[=a][s.]ir, or as an imperative
u[s.][s.]ur, or even the third person perfect i[s.][s.]ur. Similarly in the case of the sign
MU, which, besides signifying "name" as above pointed out, is also the Sumerian word for "give,"
and therefore may be read iddin, "he gave," from nad[=a]nu, or may be read n[=a]din, "giver";
and when, as actually happens, a name occurs in which the first element is the name of a deity
followed by MU-MU, a new element of doubt is introduced through the uncertainty whether the
first MU is to be taken as a form of the verb nad[=a]nu and the second as the noun shumu, "name,"
or vice versa.

Fortunately, in the case of a large number of names occurring on business documents as the
interested parties or as scribes or as witnesses--and it is through these documents that we
obtain the majority of the Babylonian-Assyrian proper names--we have variant readings, the
same name being written phonetically in whole or part in one instance and ideographically in
another. Certain classes of names being explained in this way, legitimate and fairly reliable
conclusions can be drawn for many others belonging to the same class or group. The proper names
of the numerous business documents of the Khammurabi period, when phonetic writing was the
fashion, have been of special value in resolving doubts as to the correct reading of names
written ideographically. Thus names like Sin-na-di-in-shu-mi and Bel-na-di-in-shu-mi, i.e.
"Sin is the giver of a name" (i.e. offspring), and "Bel is the giver of a name," form the model
for names with deities as the first element followed by MU-MU, even though the model may not
be consistently followed in all cases. In historical texts also variant readings occur in considerable
number. Thus, to take a classic example, the name of the famous king Nebuchadrezzar occurs
written in the following different manners:--(a) Na-bi-um-ku-du-ur-ri-u-[s.]u-ur, (b) AK-DU-u-[s.]u-ur,
(c) AK-ku-dur-ri-SHES, and (d) PA-GAR-DU-SHES, from which we are permitted to conclude that
PA or AK (with the determinative for deity AN) = Na-bi-um or Nebo, that GAR-DU or DU alone
= kudurri, and that SHES = u[s.][s.]ur. The second element signifies "boundary" or "territory";
the third element is the imperative of nasaru, "protect"; so that the whole name signifies,
"O, Nebo! protect my boundary" (or "my territory").

It is not the purpose of this note to set forth the principles underlying the formation of
proper names among the Babylonians and Assyrians, but it may not be out of place to indicate
that by the side of such full names, containing three elements (or even more), we have already
at an early period the reduction of these elements to two through the combination of the name
of a deity with a verbal form merely, or through the omission of the name of the deity. From
such names it is only a step to names of one element, a characteristic feature of which is
the frequent addition of an ending -tum (feminine), [=a]n, [=a], um, atum, atija, sha, &c.,
most of these being "hypocoristic affixes," corresponding in a measure to modern pet-names.

Lastly, a word about genuine or pseudo-Sumerian names. In the case of texts from the oldest
historical periods we encounter hundreds of names that are genuinely Sumerian, and here in
view of the multiplicity of the phonetic values attaching to the signs used it is frequently
difficult definitely to determine the reading of the names. Our knowledge of the ancient Sumerian
language is still quite imperfect, despite the considerable progress made, more particularly
during recent years. It is therefore not surprising that scholars should differ considerably
in the reading of Sumerian names, where we have not helps at our command as for Babylonian
and Assyrian names. Changes in the manner of reading the Sumerian names are frequent. Thus
the name of a king of Ur, generally read Ur-Bau until quite recently, is now read Ur-Engur;
for Lugal-zaggisi, a king of Erech, some scholars still prefer to read Ungal-zaggisi; the name
of a famous political and religious centre generally read Shir-pur-la is more probably to be
read Shir-gul-la; and so forth. There is reason, however, to believe that the uncertainty in
regard to many of these names will eventually be resolved into reasonable certainty. A doubt
also still exists in regard to a number of names of the older period because of the uncertainty
whether their bearers were Sumerians or Semites. If the former, then their names are surely
to be read as Sumerian, while, if they were Semites, the signs with which the names are written
are probably to be read according to their Semitic equivalents, though we may also expect to
encounter Semites bearing genuine Sumerian names. At times too a doubt may exist in regard
to a name whose bearer was a Semite, whether the signs composing his name represent a phonetic
reading or an ideographic compound. Thus, e.g. when inscriptions of a Semitic ruler of Kish,
whose name was written Uru-mu-ush, were first deciphered, there was a disposition to regard
this as an ideographic form and to read phonetically Alu-usharshid ("he founded a city," with
the omission of the name of the deity), but scholarly opinion finally accepted Uru-mu-ush (Urumush)
as the correct designation.

For further details regarding the formation of Sumerian and Babylonian-Assyrian proper names,
as well as for an indication of the problems involved and the difficulties still existing,
especially in the case of Sumerian names,[35] see the three excellent works now at our disposal
for the Sumerian, the old Babylonian, and the neo-Babylonian period respectively, by Huber,
Die Personennamen in den Keilschrifturkunden aus der Zeit der Könige von Ur und Nisin (Leipzig,
1907); Ranke, Early Babylonian Proper Names (Philadelphia, 1905); and Tallqvist, Neu-Babylonisches
Namenbuch (Helsingfors, 1905).

(M. JA.)

[Plate I.]     [Plate II.]

[1] For a survey of the chronological systems adopted by different modern scholars, see below,
section viii. "Chronological Systems."

[2] The compiler of the more complete one seems to have allowed himself liberties. At all events
he gives 30 years of reign to Sin-muballidh instead of the 20 assigned to him in a list of
dates drawn up at the time of Ammi-zadok's accession, 55 years to Khammurabi instead of 43,
and 35 years to Samsu-iluna instead of 38, while he omits altogether the seven years' reign
of the Assyrian king Tukulti-In-aristi at Babylon.

[3] They are also called high-priests of Gunammid[=e] and a contract-tablet speaks of "T[=e]
in Babylon," but this was probably not the T[=e] of the seal. It must be remembered that the
reading of most of the early Sumerian proper names is merely provisional, as we do not know
how the ideographs of which they are composed were pronounced in either Sumerian or Assyrian.

[4] For the events leading up to the conquests of Cyrus, see PERSIA: Ancient History, § v.
The chronology is not absolutely certain.

[5] The following is a list of the later dynasties and kings of Babylonia and Assyria so far
as they are known at present. For the views of other writers on the chronology, see § viii.,
Chronological Systems.

  The Babylonian Dynasties from cir. 2500 B.C.

  Dynasty of Ur.

    Gungunu, cir. 2500 B.C.
    Ur-Gur.
    Dungi, more than 51 years.
    Bur-Sin, more than 12 years.
    Gimil-Sin, more than 9 years.
    Ibi-Sin.
    Idin-Dagan.
    Sumu-ilu.

  First Dynasty of Babylon. 2350 B.C.

    Sumu-abi, 14 years.
    Sumu-la-ilu, 36 years.
    Zabium, 14 years.
    Abil-Sin, 18 years.
    Sin-muballidh, 20 years.
    Khammurabi, 43 years.
    Samsu-iluna, 38 years.
    Abesukh, 25 years.
    Ammi-ditana, 25 years.
    Ammi-zadoq, 21 years.
    Samsu-ditana, 31 years.

  Dynasty of Sisku (?) for 368 years. 2160 B.C.

    Anman, 60 years.
    Gul-ki[sar], 55 years.
    Kirgal-daramas, 50 years.
    [=A]-dara-kalama, 28 years.
    Akur-duana, 26 years.
    Melamma-kurkura, 8 years.
    Ea-ga(mil), 9 years.

  Kassite Dynasty of 36 kings for 576 years 9 months. 1780 B.C.

    Gandis, 16 years.
    Agum-sipak, 22 years.
    Bitilyasu I., 22 years.
    Ussi (?), 9 years.
    Adu-metas.
    Tazzi-gurumas.
    Agum-kakrime.
        .    .    .    .
    Kara-indas.
    Kadasman-Bel, his son, corresponded with
      Amon-hotep (Amenophis) III. of Egypt, 1400 B.C.
    Kuri-galzu II.
    Burna-buryas, his son, 22 years.
    Kuri-galzu III., his son, 26 years.
    Nazi-Maruttas, his son, 17 years.
    Kadasman-Turgu, his son, 13 years.
    Kudur-bel, 6 years.
    Sagarakti-suryas, his son, 13 years.
    Bitilyasu II., 8 years.
    Tukulti-In-aristi of Assyria (1272 B.C.)
      for 7 years, native vassal kings being--
    Bel-sum-iddin, 1½ years.
    Kadasman-Bel II., 1½ years.
    Hadad-sum-iddin, 6 years.
    Hadad-sum-uzur, 30 years. 1203 B.C.

    Merodach-... 18 years.
        .    .    .    .
    Merodach-... 1½ years.
    Hadad-baladan, an usurper. 1050 B.C.

    [=E]-Ulmas-sakin-sumi, 17 years.
    Ninip-kudur-uzur I., 3 years.
    Silanim-Suqamuna, 3 months.

  Dynasty of Elam. 1030 B.C.

    An Elamite, 6 years.

  Second Dynasty of Babylon. 1025 B.C.

    Nebo-kin-abli, 36 years.
    Ninip-kudur-uzur II. (?) 8 months 12 days.
    Probably 5 names missing.

  Dynasty of Sape.

    Zulilu "founder of the monarchy."
        .    .    .    .
    Assur-rabi.
    Assur-nirari, his son.
    Assur-rim-nisesu, his son.
        .    .    .    .
    Erba-Hadad,
    Assur-nadin-akhi I., his son.                   781
    Assur-dan III.                     771
    Assur-nirari                       753
    Pulu, usurper, takes the
      name of Tiglath-pileser III.
    Assur-sum-lisir                     ?
    Sin-sarra-uzur (Sarakos)            ?
    Destruction of Nineveh             606

[6] These three dynasties are usually known as the First Dynasty of Babylon, the Dynasty of
Sisku or Uruku, and the Kassite Dynasty; see sect. v.

[7] See Oppert, Comptes rendus de l'Acad. des Inscr. et Belles-Lettres (1888), xvi. pp. 218
ff., and Bab. and Or. Rec. ii. pp. 107 ff.

[8] See Sayce, Early Israel, pp. 281 ff., and Encyc. Brit., 10th ed., vol. xxvi. p. 45 (also
his account above).

[9] See Rogers History of Babylonia and Assyria (1900).

[10] See Winckler, Geschichte Babyloniens und Assyriens (1892), Altorientalische Forschungen,
i. Hft. 2 (1894), and Auszug aus der Vorderasiatischen Geschichte (1905).

[11] See Delitzsch and Mürdter, Geschichte Babyloniens und Assyriens (1891), and Delitzsch,
Mehr Licht (1907).

[13] See Peiser, Zeits. für Assyr. vi. pp. 264 ff.

[14] See Rost, Mitteil. der vorderas. Gesellschaft (1897), ii.

[15] See Lehmann-Haupt, Zwei Hauptprobleme (1898).

[16] See Marquart, Philologus, Supplbd. vii. (1899), pp. 637 ff.

[17] See Rost, Orient. Lit.-Zeit., iii. (1900), No. 6.

[18] See Lehmann-Haupt, Beiträge zur alten Geschichte (Klio), Bd. iii. Heft 1 (1903).

[19] See Hommel, Geschichte Babyloniens und Assyriens.

[20] See Ancient Hebrew Tradition, p. 125, and Hastings' Dictionary of the Bible, i. pp. 226 f.

[21] See Niebuhr, Chronologie (1896).

[22] See Hommel, "Sitzungsberichte der königl. böhmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften,"
Phil.-hist. Classe (1901), v.

[23] Published and discussed by L. W. King, "Chronicles concerning early Babylonian Kings"
(Studies in Eastern History, vols. ii. and iii., 1907), and History of Egypt, vol. xiii. (published
by the Grolier Society, New York, in the spring of 1906), pp. 244 ff.

[24] Published and discussed by Hilprecht, "Mathematical, Metrological and Chronological Texts"
(Bab. Exped., Ser. A, xx. 1, dated 1906, published 1907), pp. 46 ff.

[25] See L. W. King, Letters and Inscriptions of Khammurabi, vol. iii. pp. 228 ff.

[26] Cf., e.g., Hilprecht, Old Babylonian Inscriptions, pt. ii. p. 24.

[27] See Radau, Early Babylonian History (1900).

[28] See Lehmann-Haupt, Zwei Hauptprobleme, pp. 172 ff.

[29] See Winckler in Schrader's Keilinschriften und das Alte-Testament (3rd ed.), i. pp. 17
f., and cf. Mitteil. der vorderas. Gesellschaft (1906), i. p. 12, n.l.

[30] Cf. L. W. King, Chronicles, i. pp. 15 ff., 61 f.

[31] See Mitteilungen der deutschen Orientgesellschaft, Nos. 21 and 22, and cf. L. W. King,
Chronicles, i. pp. 114 ff.

[32] The Assyrian language is practically identical with the Babylonian, just as the Assyrians
are the same people as the Babylonians with some foreign admixtures.

[33] In many names the divine element is lopped off, but was originally present.

[34] Aramaic endorsements on business documents repeating in Aramaic transliteration the names
of parties mentioned in the texts have also been of service in fixing the phonetic readings
of names. See e.g. Clay's valuable article, "Aramaic Endorsements on the Documents of Murash[=u]
Sons" (Persian period) in Old Testament and Semitic Studies in Memory of William Rainey Harper
(Chicago, 1908, vol. i.), pp. 285-322.

[35] Even in the case of the "Semitic" name of the famous Sargon I. (q.v.), whose full name
is generally read Sharru-kenu-sha-ali, and interpreted as "the legitimate king of the city,"
the question has recently been raised whether we ought not to read "Sharru-kenu-shar-ri" and
interpret as "the legitimate king rules"--an illustration of the vacillation still prevailing
in this difficult domain of research.

BABYLONIAN AND ASSYRIAN RELIGION. The development of the religion of Babylonia, so far as it
can be traced with the material at hand, follows closely along the lines of the periods to
be distinguished in the history of the Euphrates valley. Leaving aside the primitive phases
of the religion as lying beyond the ken of historical investigation, we may note the sharp
distinction to be made between the pre-Khammurabic age and the post-Khammurabic age. While
the political movement represented by Khammurabi may have been proceeding for some time prior
to the appearance of the great conqueror, the period of c. 2250 B.C., when the union of the
Euphratean states was effected by Khammurabi, marks the beginning of a new epoch in the religion
as well as in the political history of the Euphrates valley. Corresponding to the states into
which we find the country divided before 2250 B.C., we have a various number of religious centres
such as Nippur, Erech, Kutha (Cuthah), Ur, Sippara (Sippar), Shirgulla (Lagash), Eridu and
Agade, in each of which some god was looked upon as the chief deity around whom there were
gathered a number of minor deities and with whom there was invariably associated a female consort.
The jurisdiction of this chief god was, however, limited to the political extent or control
of the district in which the main seat of the cult of the deity in question lay. Mild attempts,
to be sure, to group the chief deities associated with the most important religious and political
centres into a regular pantheon were made--notably in Nippur and later in Ur--but such attempts
lacked the enduring quality which attaches to Khammurabi's avowed policy to raise Marduk--the
patron deity of the future capital, Babylon--to the head of the entire Babylonian pantheon,
as [v.03 p.0113] Babylon itself came to be recognized as the real centre of the entire Euphrates
valley.

Associated with Marduk was his consort Sarpanit, and grouped around the pair as princes around
a throne were the chief deities of the older centres, like Ea and Damkina of Eridu, Nebo and
Tashmit of Borsippa, Nergal and Allatu of Kutha, Shamash and [=A] of Sippar, Sin and Ningal
of Ur, as well as pairs like Ramman (or Adad) and Shala whose central seat is unknown to us.
In this process of accommodating ancient prerogatives to new conditions, it was inevitable
that attributes belonging specifically to the one or the other of these gods should have been
transferred to Marduk, who thus from being, originally, a solar deity becomes an eclectic power,
taking on the traits of Bel, Ea, Shamash, Nergal, Adad and even Sin (the moon-god)--a kind
of composite residuum of all the chief gods.

In the religious literature this process can be traced with perfect definiteness. The older
incantations, associated with Ea, were re-edited so as to give to Marduk the supreme power
over demons, witches and sorcerers: the hymns and lamentations composed for the cult of Bel,
Shamash and of Adad were transformed into paeans and appeals to Marduk, while the ancient myths
arising in the various religious and political centres underwent a similar process of adaptation
to changed conditions, and as a consequence their original meaning was obscured by the endeavour
to assign all mighty deeds and acts, originally symbolical of the change of seasons or of occurrences
in nature, to the patron deity of Babylon--the supreme head of the entire Babylonian pantheon.
Besides the chief deities and their consorts, various minor ones, representing likewise patron
gods of less important localities and in most cases of a solar character were added at one
time or the other to the court of Marduk, though there is also to be noted a tendency on the
part of the chief solar deity, Shamash of Sippara, and for the chief moon-god to absorb the
solar and lunar deities of less important sites, leading in the case of the solar gods to the
differentiation of the functions of Shamash during the various seasons of the year and the
various times of the day among these minor deities. In this way Ninib, whose chief seat appears
to have been at Shirgulla (Lagash), became the sun-god of the springtime and of the morning,
bringing joy and new life to the earth, while Nergal of Kutha was regarded as the sun of the
summer solstice and of the noonday heat--the harbinger of suffering and death.

There were, however, two deities who appear to have retained an independent existence--Anu
(q.v.), the god of heaven, and Ishtar (q.v.), the great mother-goddess, who symbolized fertility
and vitality in general. There are some reasons for believing that the oldest seat, and possibly
the original seat, of the Anu cult was in Erech, as it is there where the Ishtar cult that
subsequently spread throughout Babylonia and Assyria took its rise. While Anu, with whom there
was associated as a pale reflection a consort Antum, assigned to him under the influence of
the widely prevalent view among the early Semites which conceived of gods always in pairs,
remained more or less of an abstraction during the various periods of the Babylonian-Assyrian
religion and taking little part in the active cult of the temples, his unique position as the
chief god of the highest heavens was always recognized in the theological system developed
by the priests, which found an expression in making him the first figure of a triad, consisting
of Anu, Bel and Ea, among whom the priests divided the three divisions of the universe, the
heavens, the earth with the atmosphere above it, and the watery expanse respectively.

Postponing the discussion of this triad, it is to be noted that the systematization of the
pantheon after the days of Khammurabi did not seriously interfere with the independence of
the goddess Ishtar. While frequently associated with Marduk, and still more closely with the
chief god of Assyria, the god Assur (who occupies in the north the position accorded to Marduk
in the south), so much so as to be sometimes spoken of as Assur's consort--the lady or Belit
par excellence--the belief that as the source of all life she stands apart never lost its hold
upon the people and found an expression also in the system devised by the priests. By the side
of the first triad, consisting of Anu, Bel and Ea--disconnected in this form entirely from
all local associations--we encounter a second triad composed of Shamash, Sin and Ishtar. As
the first triad symbolized the three divisions of the universe--the heavens, earth and the
watery element--so the second represented the three great forces of nature--the sun, the moon
and the life-giving power. According as the one or the other aspect of such a power is brought
into the foreground, Ishtar becomes the mother of mankind, the fertile earth, the goddess of
sexual love, and the creative force among animals, while at times she appears in hymns and
myths as the general personification of nature.

We thus find in the post-Khammurabic period the pantheon assuming distinct shapes. The strong
tendency towards concentrating in one deity--Marduk--the attributes of all others was offset
by the natural desire to make the position of Marduk accord with the rank acquired by the secular
rulers. As these emphasized their supremacy by grouping around them a court of loyal attendants
dependent in rank and ready to do their master's bidding, so the gods of the chief centres
and those of the minor local cults formed a group around Marduk; and the larger the group the
greater was the reflected glory of the chief figure. Hence throughout the subsequent periods
of Babylonian history, and despite a decided progress towards a monotheistic conception of
divine government of the universe, the recognition of a large number of gods and their consorts
by the side of Marduk remained a firmly embedded doctrine in the Babylonian religion as it
did in the Assyrian religion, with the important variation, however, of transferring the rôle
of the head of the pantheon from Marduk to Assur. Originally the patron god of the city of
Assur (q.v.), when this city became the centre of a growing and independent district, Assur
was naturally advanced to the same position in the north that Marduk occupied in the south.
The religious predominance of the city of Babylon served to maintain for Marduk recognition
even on the part of the Assyrian rulers, who, on the political side likewise, conceded to Babylonia
the form at least of an independent district even when, as kings of Assyria, they exercised
absolute control over it. They appointed their sons or brothers governors of Babylonia, and
in the long array of titles that the kings gave themselves, a special phrase was always set
aside to indicate their mastery over Babylonia. "To take the hand of Bel-Marduk" was the ceremony
of installation which Assyrian rulers recognized equally with Babylonians as an essential preliminary
to exercising authority in the Euphrates valley. Marduk and Assur became rivals only when Babylonia
gave the Assyrians trouble; and when in 689 B.C. Sennacherib, whose patience had been exhausted
by the difficulties encountered in maintaining peace in the south, actually besieged and destroyed
the city of Babylon, he removed the statue of Marduk to Nineveh as a symbol that the god's
rule had come to an end. His grandson Assur-bani-pal, with a view of re-establishing amicable
relations, restored the statue to the temple E-Saggila in Babylon and performed the time-honoured
ceremony of "taking the hand of Bel" as a symbol of his homage to the ancient head of the Babylonian
pantheon.

But for the substitution of Assur for Marduk, the Assyrian pantheon was the same as that set
up in the south, though some of the gods were endowed with attributes which differ slightly
from those which mark the same gods in the south. The warlike nature of the Assyrians was reflected
in their conceptions of the gods, who thus became little Assurs by the side of the great protector
of arms, the big Assur. The cult and ritual in the north likewise followed the models set up
in the south. The hymns composed for the temples of Babylonia were transferred to Assur, Calah,
Harran, Arbela and Nineveh in the north; and the myths and legends also wandered to Assyria,
where, to be sure, they underwent certain modifications. To all practical purposes, however,
the religion of Assyria was identical with that practised in the south.

We thus obtain four periods in the development of the Babylonian-Assyrian religion: (1) the
oldest period from [v.03 p.0114] c. 3500 B.C. to the time of Khammurabi (c. 2250 B.C.); (2)
the post-Khammurabic period in Babylonia; (3) the Assyrian period (c. 2000 B.C.) to the destruction
of Nineveh in 606 B.C.; (4) the neo-Babylonian period beginning with Nabopolassar (625-604
B.C.), the first independent ruler under whom Babylonia inaugurates a new though short-lived
era of power and prosperity, which ends with Cyrus's conquest of Babylon and Babylonia in 539
B.C., though since the religion proceeds on its undisturbed course for several centuries after
the end of the political independence, we might legitimately carry this period to the Greek
conquest of the Euphrates valley (331 B.C.), when new influences began to make themselves felt
which gradually led to the extinction of the old cults.

In this long period of c. 3500 to c. 300 B.C., the changes introduced after the adjustment
to the new conditions produced by Khammurabi's union of the Euphratean states are of a minor
character. As already indicated, the local cults in the important centres of the south and
north maintained themselves despite the tendency towards centralization, and while the cults
themselves varied according to the character of the gods worshipped in each centre, the general
principles were the same and the rites differed in minor details rather than in essential variations.
An important factor which thus served to maintain the rites in a more or less stable condition
was the predominance of what may be called the astral theology as the theoretical substratum
of the Babylonian religion, and which is equally pronounced in the religious system of Assyria.
The essential feature of this astral theology is the assumption of a close link between the
movements going on in the heavens and occurrences on earth, which led to identifying the gods
and goddesses with heavenly bodies--planets and stars, besides sun and moon--and to assigning
the seats of all the deities in the heavens. The personification of the two great luminaries--the
sun and the moon--was the first step in the unfolding of this system, and this was followed
by placing the other deities where Shamash and Sin had their seats. This process, which reached
its culmination in the post-Khammurabic period, led to identifying the planet Jupiter with
Marduk, Venus with Ishtar, Mars with Nergal, Mercury with Nebo, and Saturn with Ninib. The
system represents a harmonious combination of two factors, one of popular origin, the other
the outcome of speculation in the schools attached to the temples of Babylonia. The popular
factor is the belief in the influence exerted by the movements of the heavenly bodies on occurrences
on earth--a belief naturally suggested by the dependence of life, vegetation and guidance upon
the two great luminaries. Starting with this belief the priests built up the theory of the
close correspondence between occurrences on earth and phenomena in the heavens. The heavens
presenting a constant change even to the superficial observer, the conclusion was drawn of
a connexion between the changes and the ever-changing movement in the fate of individuals and
of nature as well as in the appearance of nature.

To read the signs of the heavens was therefore to understand the meaning of occurrences on
earth, and with this accomplished it was also possible to foretell what events were portended
by the position and relationship to one another of sun, moon, planets and certain stars. Myths
that symbolized changes in season or occurrences in nature were projected on the heavens, which
were mapped out to correspond to the divisions of the earth. All the gods, great and small,
had their places assigned to them in the heavens, and facts, including such as fell within
the domain of political history, were interpreted in terms of astral theology. So completely
did this system in the course of time sway men's minds that the cult, from being an expression
of animistic beliefs, took on the colour derived from the "astral" interpretation of occurrences
and doctrines. It left its trace in incantations, omens and hymns, and it gave birth to astronomy,
which was assiduously cultivated because a knowledge of the heavens was the very foundation
of the system of belief unfolded by the priests of Babylonia and Assyria. "Chaldaean wisdom"
became in the classical world the synonym of this science, which in its character was so essentially
religious. The persistent prominence which astrology (q.v.) continued to enjoy down to the
border line of the scientific movement of our own days, and which is directly traceable to
the divination methods perfected in the Euphrates valley, is a tribute to the scope and influence
attained by the astral theology of the Babylonian and Assyrian priests.

As an illustration of the manner in which the doctrines of the religion were made to conform
to the all-pervading astral theory, it will be sufficient to refer to the modification undergone
in this process of the view developed in a very early period which apportioned the control
of the universe among the three gods Anu, Bel and Ea. Disassociating these gods from all local
connexions, Anu became the power presiding over the heavens, to Bel was assigned the earth
and the atmosphere immediately above it, while Ea ruled over the deep. With the transfer of
all the gods to the heavens, and under the influence of the doctrine of the correspondence
between the heavens and the earth, Anu, Bel and Ea became the three "ways" (as they are called)
on the heavens. The "ways" appear in this instance to have been the designation of the ecliptic
circle, which was divided into three sections or zones--a northern, a middle and a southern
zone, Anu being assigned to the first, Bel to the second, and Ea to the third zone. The astral
theology of the Babylonian-Assyrian religion, while thus bearing the ear-marks of a system
devised by the priests, succeeded in assimilating the beliefs which represented the earlier
attempts to systematize the more popular aspects of the religion, and in this way a unification
of diverse elements was secured that led to interpreting the contents and the form of the religion
in terms of the astral-theological system.

