Vol. XXIII  No.1 JULY     1910

THE LAYING OF THE MONSTER 

BY THEODOSIA GARRISON

Dorothea reposed with her shoulders in the shade of the bulkhead and her bare feet burrowing
in the sun-warmed sand. Beneath her shoulder blades was a bulky and disheveled volume--a bound
year of Godey's Lady Book of the vintage of the early seventies. Having survived the handling
of three generations, this seemed to take naturally to being drenched with rain and warped
by sun, or, as at the present moment, serving its owner either as a sand-pillow or as a receptacle
for divers scribbled verses on its fly-leaves and margins.

It was with a poem now that Dorothea was wrestling, as she wriggled her toes in the sand and
gazed blankly oceanward. Under the scorching August sun, the Atlantic seemed to purr like a
huge, amiable lion cub.

It was not the amiabilities of nature, however, in which Dorothea found inspiration. A harp
of a single string, she sang as that minstrel might who was implored to make love alone his theme.

Given an imaginative young person of eleven, who, when not abandoning herself utterly to athletics,
has secret and continual access to the brand of literature peculiar to the "Seaside Library,"
and the result is obvious. Dorothea's mother read recipes; her father was addicted to the daily
papers. It was only in her grandmother that Dorothea found a literary taste she approved. On
that cozy person's bookshelves one could always find what happened to Goldie or what the exquisite
Irish heroine said to the earl before she eloped with the captain.

In this knowledge Dorothea's parents had no ambition that their daughter should excel. In fact,
an uncompromising edict on the subject had been given forth more than once to a sullen and
rebellious sinner. But how should the most suspicious parent, when his daughter sits in his
presence apparently engrossed in a book entitled "The Girlhood of Famous Women," guess that
carefully concealed in its interior is a smaller volume bearing the title "Muriel's Mistake,
or, For Another's Sin?"

Having acquired knowledge, the true student seeks to demonstrate. Dorothea had promptly and
intentionally fallen in love with the son of her next-door neighbor. Amiel--fresh from his
first year in college-- was a tall, broad-shouldered youth, with kindly brown eyes and a flash
of white teeth when he smiled. In contrast to the small boys and the sober-going fathers of
families in which the summer colony abounded, he shone, as Dorothea's favorite novelists would
have expressed it, "like a Greek god."

It was this unsuspecting person whom Dorothea had, at first sight, elected to be the Hero of
her Dreams. She trailed him, moreover, with a persistency that would have done credit to a
detective. Did he go to the post-office, he was sure to meet Dorothea returning (Lady Ursula,
strolling through her estate, comes upon her lover unawares). Dorothea, emulating her heroine's
example by vaulting a fence and cutting across lots, could be found also strolling (if slightly
breathless) as he approached.

She timed her day, as far as possible, with his. Would he swim, play tennis, or go crabbing--there
was Dorothea. Would he repose in the summerhouse hammock and listen to entire pages declaimed
from Tennyson and Longfellow, the while being violently swung--his slave was ready. She read
no story in which she was not the heroine and Amiel the hero. At the same time, she was perfectly
and painfully conscious in the back of her brain that Amiel regarded her only as a sun-browned,
crop-headed tomboy, who had an extraordinary facility for remembering all the poetry she had
ever read, and who amused and interested him as his own small sister might. Outwardly she kept
strictly to this role--a purely natural one--while inwardly she soared dizzily from fantasy
to fantasy, even while her physical body was plunging in the waves or leaping on the tennis court.

Could Amiel have had the slightest insight into the fancies seething in his small neighbor's
mind, he would have been astounded to the verge of doubting her reason. Little did he know,
as he stood now on the bulkhead and looked down at her, that at the moment Dorothea was finishing
mentally a poem in which with "wild tears" and "clasping hands," he had bidden her an eternal
farewell--by moonlight. She was, moreover, perturbed by the paucity of her native language.
There appeared to be nothing to rhyme with "love" except "shove," "above," and "dove." Of these
one was impossible and two were trite. Scowling fiercely at the ocean, she finally gave the
bird to the hungry line and repeated the final couplet doubtfully:

   " `Farewell,' he said. `Ah, love, my love,    
   My heart is breaking for thee, Dove.' "

"Look out!" said a voice above her. "I'm going to jump."

Dorothea sat up delightedly, with her bare, brown legs tucked beneath her, Turk-like, as she
welcomed him. ("Ah! Beloved," said Lady Ursula with her hand on her fluttering heart.) "Hello,"
said Dorothea, with a wide grin.

He flung himself down beside her and surveyed her with amusement. "Been digging holes with
your head?" he asked affably. "Your hair and eyelashes look it. Been here all the afternoon?"

"Yes," she said. "I saw you go riding after lunch. I've been here ever since. I love to be
on the beach when there isn't a lot of people bothering around. Then"--she made a wide gesture
with her brown hand-- "all of it seems to belong to me, not broken up in little bits for everybody."
She shook her cropped head vigorously, and the sand pelted down her shoulders.

"Well," he said, watching this operation, "you came near taking your little bit to the house
with you to keep, didn't you? How long have you worn your hair cropped like that, Dorothea?
Was it when you decided to be captain of a ball team?"

He drew a box of chocolates from his pocket and tossed it over to her. She caught it neatly
on her outstretched palm, as a boy would have done, and nibbled squirrel-like as she talked.
She did not resent being teased by Amiel--she liked it, rather, as representing a perfect understanding
between them. Also, once removed from the high hills of romance, she was not devoid of humor.

"It was cut in June--before you came. They didn't want me to, but I just begged them. It was
such a nuisance bathing and then flopping about drying afterward, and being sent upstairs all
day long to make it smooth."

"You funny kid," he said. "You don't care how you look, do you? You ought to have been a boy.
What have you been doing down here all by yourself?"

"Reading--and--listening," said Dorothea vaguely. She folded Godey's Lady Book tightly to her
chest. Lady Ursula or no Lady Ursula, she would have died--with black, bitter shame at the
thought of any eye but her own falling upon the penciled lines therein. The horror of ridicule
is the black shadow that hangs over youth. That strange, inner world of her own Dorothea shared
with nothing more substantial than her dreams.

"Listening?" he inquired.

"To the ocean," explained Dorothea. "It was high tide when I came down, and the waves boom-boomed
like that, as though it were saying big words down in its chest, you know."

"And what were the wild waves saying?"

"Oh, big words like--" she thought a moment, her small, sunburnt face serious and intent. "You
see?"

"Absolutely," he said enjoyingly. "And so you weren't lonesome?"

Dorothea, who had spent her afternoon in a region peopled with interesting and exquisite figures,
shook her head.

"You don't get lonesome when you think," she said--"imagine" was the word she meant; she used
the other as appealing to his understanding. Suddenly the vague, introspective look left her
face; she turned to him with the expression of one imparting pleasing tidings. "My friend is
coming to-morrow to stay a week," she said. "You remember I told you that mother had asked
her. Well, she's coming down with father to-morrow. She has never been to the seashore before.
You'll take us crabbing, won't you, Amiel? And if we have a bonfire you'll ask father to let
us stay up, won't you?"

"Sure," he said good-naturedly. "What's her name?"

"Her name is Jennie Clark, and she lives next door to us in the city, and we're going to have
fun--fun--fun," chanted Dorothea. "Come on." She sprang lightly to her feet and dug her shoes
and stockings out of the sand. "We can have a game of tennis before dinner."

Clutching her book with her shoes and stockings, she raced with him to the steps that led to
the bulkhead, and from that eminence--with the air of one performing an accustomed act--she
clambered on the fence that separated the green lawns from beach to avenue. This, with a fine
disregard for splinters, she proceeded to walk--her property tucked under her arm.

Amiel strode beside her on the lawn. She was as sure-footed as a goat; but when he clutched
her elbow as she performed a daring pirouette, she offered no opposition, but proceeded sedately
beneath his hold. Why not? She had ceased to be Dorothea on her way to a tennis game ("Lean
heavily on me, dearest," whispered Reginald, "the chapel is in sight. Bear up a little longer").
With a weary sigh the Lady Ursula slid finally from the gate-post to the ground and proceeded
to put on her stockings.

Jennie Clark arrived duly and was received, if not rapturously, at least hospitably. To be
frank, Jennie Clark was not among those first suggested by Dorothea as a prospective visitor.
Of her own private and particular friends some five had been rejected by a too censorious parent,
mainly, it seemed, because of a lack of personal charm--Dorothea preferring a good sport from
the gutter, as it were, to a dull fairy from a dancing school.

Jennie had been near, perilously near, the end of Dorothea's list. Her sole claims to Dorothea's
friendship were that, living next door, she was available on rainy days when greater delights
failed, and that Dorothea, by a dramatic relation of a ghost story, could hypnotize her into
a terrified and wholly fascinated wreck.

Jennie was thirteen, a very young thirteen--pretty and mindless as a Persian kitten--but developing
rapidly a coquettish instinct for the value of a red ribbon in her dark curls, and the set
of a bracelet on her plump arm. Beside her curves and curls and pretty frilled frocks, Dorothea,
in her straight, blue flannel playing suit or stiff afternoon pique', with her cropped blonde
head, suggested nothing so much as wire opposed to a sofa cushion.

She was in white pique' this afternoon. To meet one's friend at the station was an event. Dorothea
was honestly excited and happy, and she was not at all pained that Jennie Clark's first greeting
was a comment on her short hair and her sunburn.

By what might have seemed to the unobserving a happy coincidence, Amiel, strolling from his
house to the beach with his after- dinner pipe, was hailed by Dorothea from the summerhouse.
She had run the unsuspecting Miss Clark very hard to arrive at the psychological moment. Joining
them there, he was duly presented to Jennie Clark, and Dorothea, accepting the courteous fashion
in which he acknowledged the introduction as an indirect compliment to herself, was elated.
Jennie was certainly very pretty. She tossed back her long curls and talked to Amiel with an
occasional droop of her long lashes, and Dorothea, beaming upon them both, had no notion that,
hovering above her in the quiet twilight, the green- eyed Monster was even then scenting its
victim and preparing to strike.

Presently Dorothea's father and mother and Amiel's stout and amiable parents joined their offspring
in the summerhouse. One of the affable, if uninteresting, neighbors came as well and, promptly
introducing a banjo as a reason for his being, lured the assembled company into song.

Dorothea, snuggled into her corner, blissfully conscious of Amiel's careless arm about her
shoulder, gave herself up to happiness. The night was soft as velvet, sewn with the gold spangles
of stars. The waves whispered secrets to each other as they waited for the moon to rise. Dorothea,
rapturously using the atmosphere as a background for Lady Ursula, became suddenly aware that
the singing of "Juanita" in six different keys had ceased, and that Jennie, having been discovered
to be the possessor of a voice, was singing alone. She had an exquisite little pipe, and she
sang the dominating sentimental song of the year with ease if not with temperament. Its close
was greeted with instant and enthusiastic applause. Jennie became instantly the center of attraction.

It was Amiel who urged her to sing again, Amiel who seized upon the banjo and accompanied her
triumphantly through a college song, turning his back squarely upon Dorothea the while.

Dorothea sat up straight, a sudden, bewildering anger at her heart as she watched them. In
the midst of the song she announced casually that the moon was coming up. No one paid the slightest
attention to her except the calling neighbor, who said "Hush!"

An instant later, the instant that saw Amiel lay a commending and fraternal hand on Jennie's
curls, the Monster struck. Jealousy had no firmer grip of beak and talons on the Moor of Venice
than on the crop-headed Dorothea. In absolute self- defense she did an unprecedented and wholly
unexpected thing. Without warning she burst into song, even as Jennie was coyly preparing for
an encore. This was the same song with which Lady Ursula invariably brought blinding, bitter
tears to the eyes of those assembled at picnics and hunt balls. It had an opposite effect upon
Dorothea's auditors. With apparently one accord they burst into hilarious mirth, comment, and
expostulation.

"My child!" "Where did you get that absurd song?" "Dorothea, never try to sing again. I forbid
it." This last from her father.

It was Amiel who commented admiringly on the fact that Dorothea with practice might go through
an entire song without once touching upon the tune and time, and Jennie who giggled enjoyingly
and said, "Oh, Dorothea, you're awfully funny."

Dorothea sat out the rest of the evening in stony silence, which nobody regarded. She refused
to join in the various choruses-- no one noticed the omission in the least. When at last she
walked to the house with Amiel between herself and Jennie, and haughtily shrugged her shoulder
away from his hand, he continued listening to Jennie's prattle without giving the slightest
attention to her aloofness.

Long after Jennie was asleep, Dorothea, wide-eyed, communed with the Monster. This was not
an imitation Lady Ursula jealousy at all. That was an interesting game at which one played
when Amiel occasionally walked and talked with some stray damsel in the colony. She had no
real jealousy of the young ladyhood that at times intruded. But this was different; here she
was out- ranked in HER OWN CLASS. In that lay the sting. She reflected dismally that this was
only Tuesday and that Jennie was to stay until the following Monday.

She was perfectly and miserably fair in recounting Jennie's attractions as contrasted with
her own. She, Dorothea, could, at demand, which was seldom, reel off pages of poetry; Jennie
could sing--to appreciative audiences. Dorothea could swim and dive; Jennie had curly hair.
Plainly, Jennie had all the best of it. It remained only for Dorothea not to forget the courtesy
due a guest and, above all, oh, above everything, not to show the slightest trace of the jealousy
that consumed her. Lady Ursula had several times been the life of the party when her heart
was breaking. Her proud smile had never faltered in the presence of her rival. Well, neither
would Dorothea's. She assumed it instantly in the darkness by way of immediate practice, and
fell asleep with the result plastered upon her face.

In the morning the Monster, wearied perhaps by his session of the night before, seemed to lie
dormant. Dorothea woke jubilant as the morn and, having roused her friend by the gentle method
of half stifling her with a pillow, rushed her through her dressing and led her forth.

The ocean welcomed them with rapture; it caught the sun for them and threw it back in millions
and millions of living, rainbowed diamonds. The world was all gold and blue and tremulous with
clean salt winds. It seemed ridiculous that one could be unhappy on such a day. Dorothea danced
pagan-like at the wave edge while Jennie watched demurely from the bulkhead.

However, it appeared that even on a day like this one could carry black envy at one's heart.
It was during the bathing hour that the Monster again asserted himself--this time for no indefinite
stay. As a rule, the bathing hour was one in which Dorothea reveled. Arrayed in her faded bathing
suit, guiltless of skirt or sleeves, her prowess as an amphibious creature had been highly
commended by that one for whose praise she would gladly have precipitated herself from the
highest pier.

In vain to-day did she perform feats of daring and agility that would have done credit to a
flying fish. No one had eyes for her except an agitated mother and grandmother, who finally
ordered her summarily out of the water and into the bath house.

Amiel had occupied himself in coaxing Jennie into the water and giving her primary instructions
in swimming. Jennie, in the daintiest red and white suit that could be imagined, skirted and
stockinged, with her curls escaping from a coquettish red handkerchief, timorously advancing
and drawing back from the wave rush with little, appealing cries, was as fascinating as a playful
kitten.

Dorothea regarded her with the disgust of the seasoned veteran for the raw recruit. This, however,
her erstwhile friend might have been pardoned for not suspecting, seeing that whenever she
caught Dorothea's eye she was immediately the recipient of a wide and beaming smile that even
one less vain might have accepted as a tribute to her attractions. It never wavered even while
Jennie shook down her long curls ostensibly to let the sun dry a single lock that in some unaccountable
way had felt the touch of a wave. Beamingly Dorothea heard Amiel humorously contrast this brown
glory with her own short crop. Beamingly she fell into the plans for the crabbing party that
afternoon. However, it was this lightsome expedition that laid the last straw upon the Monster's
back.

The gentle art of crabbing involves the carrying of a long-handled net and a huge basket, and
a stop at the butcher's to purchase unsavory lumps of meat for bait.

Hitherto Dorothea had always proudly and vehemently insisted upon carrying the basket the long,
hot mile to the bay. To-day, as Amiel dropped the bait in and handed it to her as a matter
of course, she accepted it with the look of the proud spirit that will not cry out beneath
indignities. She hung the basket over her blue flanneled arm and trudged valiantly before them.

The afternoon was one of long and unprecedented martyrdom. Dorothea reviewed it as she changed
into her white pique' for dinner, the while beamingly advising Jennie as to the selection of
hair ribbons. SHE had vaulted fences; Jennie had been assisted. SHE had baited lines; Jennie's
had been baited. The fact that a week before the offer of help in that delicate operation would
have been regarded as an insult to her intelligence failed to occur to her to-day. She burned
with humiliation as she remembered that after a half hour of seeing Jennie's line carefully
prepared, she had handed her own to Amiel with the air of one doing only what was expected
of her. Amiel, in return, had stared at her, and in the tone he might have used to a younger
brother had said briefly, "Well, go on and bait it. What's the matter?" She had baited it.
Also, she had carried home the net while Amiel had borne the spoils and protested courteously
when Jennie offered an assisting hand. It was dreary consolation to realize that never for
a moment had the proud smile wavered. She was beginning to feel as though an elastic band had
been stretched for hours under her nose and behind her ears, and the sole comment her lofty
amiability had drawn forth had been a reference to the famed animal of Cheshire.

From her window she presently saw Jennie, all rosy muslin and tossing curls, strolling beachward
with Amiel. The sight nerved her to demonstrate an idea that had occurred to her inspiringly
during the day. Once by simply placing a dewy rose in her golden torrent of hair, Lady Ursula
had brought the ball room to her feet. In emulation, Dorothea extracted a hair ribbon from
Jennie's stock and, failing other means, tied it bandage-wise about her head. The result was
not coquettish. It suggested only accident or disease. She removed it wearily, and sat down
on the edge of the bed to think. Plainly, she could not compete with Jennie on the grounds
of beauty or accomplishments. Apparently the fact of being able to swim, vault, and leap from
vast heights constituted none of these things. And yet, before Jennie arrived--and doubtless
after Jennie departed--after these five interminable days that stretched before her--but why five?

The dinner bell rang insistently. Some one was calling her from the stairs. Dorothea sat still,
with her arms folded on the bedpost and a new thought playing like summer lightning in her
brain. The thought gradually resolved itself into a problem. It was well enough to decide that
Jennie must go--the problem was how to make her go. A telegram or a letter summoning her home?
A good idea if there were any one in the city to send it. That was obviously impossible.

Dorothea walked downstairs with her brows knitted in thought above the unchanging smile, and
in her eyes the look of the rapt soul momentarily expecting inspiration.

The inspiration arrived during that hour  when the denizens of the little colony sat ring-wise
about the beach fire.

The neighbor with the banjo had done his worst, and desisted; Jennie had piped through her
repertoire and was now graciously accepting the support of Amiel's arm. Dorothea and the Monster,
somewhat withdrawn from the circle, watched a crooked moon lift itself above the horizon and
lay a trail of opal glory on the waves. Still awaiting inspiration, she regarded it with as
little interest as Lucretia Borgia might have given the sunset that preceded one of her little
poisoning dinners.

Presently, as befitted the atmosphere and hour, the talk of the little circle fell upon things
ghostly and mysterious--strange happenings and prophetic dreams. Dorothea, who had a love of
horrors, lent a suddenly attentive ear; but Jennie, though plainly fascinated, uttered a protesting
plaint. "Oh, please stop! You don't know how you frighten me! Dorothea has had some awfully
queer things happen to her, and it scares me almost to death when she tells about them."

Mirth followed the announcement of Dorothea's occult powers, which, needless to say, had come
as a surprise to her immediate family.

Dorothea paid no attention whatever. Instead she rose to her feet and, flinging her arms wide,
yawned elaborately. It was a delicate suggestion, which caused the men to look at their watches,
and the party forthwith dispersed.

Dorothea, for all the sand in her shoes, seemed to walk to the house on air. The inspiration
had arrived, fully accoutered, as it were, on the breath of Jennie's complaint.

The work in hand called for the dexterity of the true artist. With managerial instinct, Dorothea,
repelling any attempt at conversation, waited only until Jennie was comfortably ensconced in
bed, to turn the lamp down so that it glimmered in sickly fashion, before beginning proceedings.
Then, seating herself beside the bed--an eerie figure in her straight, white gown--she shook
her head dismally and indulged in a heartfelt sigh. Jennie, her nerves already on edge with
the ghost stories of the hour before, turned startled eyes upon her.

"What is the matter? What is it?" she inquired anxiously.

"I--feel--strange," said Dorothea. She turned upon her victim a face full of uncanny suggestion.
Divested of its perpetual smile, it seemed to Jennie as unfamiliar as a room from which an
accustomed piece of furniture had been moved.

"I feel--strange. Something terrible is happening somewhere.--I can tell--I always can--I am
going to have a vision--I can feel it--It always comes like this." With a quick hand she extinguished
the lamp. "It will come in a dream," she muttered. "Let me sleep, oh, let me sleep!"

She made a sweeping pass with her out- stretched hands and, after a dramatic pause, fell heavily
on her pillow, where she instantly proceeded to fall into a deep and trance-like slumber--a
slumber that prevailed through the terrified questionings, whimperings, and agitated shakings
by her friend.

It is an awesome thing to seek repose beside one wrapped in trance; it is worse to traverse
unlighted halls and ghostly stairs in an effort to awake the gifted medium's family. Wrapped
in terror as in an icy sheet, after divers Herculean efforts to rouse the log beside her, the
responsive victim fell into a troubled slumber with her head well under the bedclothes.

The gray dawn was in the room when she was awakened by what seemed to be muffled sobs from--the
figure beside her. In an instant wide awake and palpitating, she fell upon Dorothea. "What
is it? Oh, what is it?" she cried.

"I have had it," said Dorothea in a sepulchral whisper. "The vision. Oh," she turned dramatically
from the instant question, "I can't bear to tell you!--It was about you."

"Dorothea, you've GOT to tell me! I think you're HORRID. I'm going right downstairs to tell
your mother."

"Of course I'm going to tell you," said the sybil crossly. She resumed her chest tones hurriedly.
"I must tell you. It was sent to me to tell you. I wanted to prepare you."

"Prepare? Oh, Dorothea, what WAS it?"

Dorothea stood upright on the bed, and her eyes assumed the expression of those that see inward--Jennie
stared at her, hypnotized, breathless.

"I saw a room," chanted the inspired one, "a room in a large city. I can see it now. It is
a bedroom. There are blue rugs on the floor, and the furniture is oak. It has two windows.
There is a canary bird in one, and the other has a seat with blue cushions."

"Why, that is my mother's room, Dorothea! You know it is."

"In the bed a woman is lying. She is sick. She is turning from one side to the other--she says,
`Oh, where is my daughter? I want my daughter! Why doesn't she come back to me?'"

"Oh, Dorothea!" Jennie, tearful and excited, began to draw on her clothes. "That was my mother!
It must have been! Oh, Dorothea!"

The sybil drove in the fine point again. "`Why doesn't she come back to me?'" she reiterated.

The program that had proceeded so smoothly now received an unexpected hitch. Jennie paused
suddenly in her garmenting, relief growing in her face.

"After all," she observed, "I don't believe mother had anything more than one of her sick-headaches.
She has them all the time. I wouldn't go home just for that. I do believe that is it, Dorothea."

It was time for rapid thought. Another moment and the fine dramatic work of the morning would
have gone for naught. For a moment Dorothea staggered, but for a moment only. "I didn't tell
you everything," she said mysteriously. "Your mother is not alone in the bed. She is holding
something in her arms. She is saying--" she paused to give her climax its full effect-- "`Oh,
why doesn't Jennie come home to see her little sister?'"

"Her little--?--Dorothea!"

It behooves the villain to be without conscience. No slightest shame visited the brazen one's
heart at the sight of Jennie's instant joy and excitement. Modestly she accepted the tribute
to her uncanny power; obligingly she assisted her friend to pack; martyr-like she acquiesced
in Jennie's decision that the first train after breakfast would be none too early to bear her
to that long-coveted delight--a baby sister. Moreover, she cannily advised her friend as to
the mode of proceeding. "If you tell them downstairs why you are going, they may not let you.
They don't know about visions. Just tell them that you're going home and NOTHING ELSE."

This advice, followed to the letter, produced no little agitation at the breakfast table. Jennie
simply announced her intention of immediate departure; all questions as to her health, happiness,
and possible reasons were met only with a parrot-like repetition of the fact. Upon closer pressing
she gave way to hysterical tears, Dorothea the while assisting the scene with round, innocent
eyes and the bewildered air of one suddenly made aware of an impending event.

The solution was presently found by a sympathetic and consoling circle--the child was homesick;
she wanted her mother. Assuredly that explained everything. The lure of sails and picnics having
failed, Dorothea's mother came to a decision with sympathetic tears in her eyes and a glance
toward her own innocent. "She shall take the first train home if she wants to. The child sha'n't
be miserable. No, don't urge her, Bob. I was homesick myself once, and I understand perfectly."

Dorothea reposed in the shade of the bulkhead, sand on her person and a great peace in her
heart, upon which the Monster, departing, had left no scar. Under her head was the Godey's
Lady's Book, in which, over the picture of a brocaded pelisse, she had recently finished a
poem in which "lover" rhymed-- with "forever." Amiel, cross-legged on the sand beside her,
was whistling gently as he industriously whittled at a bit of driftwood, little suspecting
that at the moment he was taking tea in a bower with Lady Ursula.

Presently he drew a letter from his pocket and flipped it over to Dorothea. "Your mother asked
me to give you this," he said. "She thought it might be from that pretty little friend of yours."

Dorothea opened the letter with some trepidation. Presently a bland smile over- spread her
countenance. The day of reckoning that she expected to dawn upon her next meeting with her
victim melted cloud-like as she read:

Dear Dorothea:

I arrived home safely. It's just as well I did, because my aunt was waiting to take me to Lake
George, but you made a mistake in the vision. It wasn't my mother. It was Mrs. Gray across
the street and hers is a boy, but I think that was very near.

I think the vision was perfectly wonderful, but I am glad I don't have them. My mother says
I can come again later if your mother wants me. I didn't tell her why I came home, because
she doesn't believe in them either.

She presented her love to several people and added in a postscript, "Let me know at Lake George
if you have another."

Dorothea tore the letter into minute scraps and gave them over to the sea breeze.

"Well," queried Amiel idly, "what does she say?"

"She says she arrived safely," said Dorothea.

***************************************************************** Vol. Mining is a legitimate
and honorable enterprise. It contributes immensely to the national wealth. It has been the
source of some of our great fortunes. Because there is something magical in the suggestion
of gold or coal or copper taken out of the ground, sharpers have made mining an instrument
of successful deception. They have tricked people into investing their savings in worthless
or even non-existent mines. Perhaps you who read this have bitten at an advertisement in a
reputable publication, which pretended to place the wealth of some western El Dorado at your
feet for a few hundred dollars. Doubtless your money has disappeared. It is for the purpose
of giving you the protection of a knowledge both of legitimate mining and of the ways of thieves
that this article is published.

AMERICA is the land of the free and the country of opportunity for all. Incidentally, it is
free hunting-ground for sharpers, and a land of opportunity for the unscrupulous. No such chances
for fraudulent business exist anywhere else in the world. Americans are the richest people
on earth, and the most easily parted from their money. Those whose sole ambition is to get
rich quick very frequently help some other man to get rich quick. Society owes no debt to either
of these. It is obliged to support them both. This is wrong both as a moral and as an industrial
proposition. Once, a dollar was spent to mine a dollar. To-day two are spent: One dollar goes
into blasting powder, the other into advertising and office furniture.

No doubt you have heard the age-old legend of the Mother Vein of Gold, which appears and vanishes,
now and again, in this corner of the world. Superstition regarding this great original vein
of gold is found wherever men seek the precious metal. The feverish Spaniards called this phantom
lode the Madre d'Oro, or "Mother of Gold." Now it is located in Mexico, now in India or Peru,
California or Australia. Tradition says that Montezuma got his gold from this great vein, which
lay in a secret valley whose where-abouts was jealously guarded by three priests of the war
tribe, sole possessors of the knowledge. Any intruder who by chance or design looked down into
this valley was smitten absolutely blind. Tradition among the successors of the Aztecs says
that when Montezuma passed, the Madre d'Oro sank back again into the earth, and has been seen
no more. Men still follow the phantom vein. Those who see it, even in their dreams, still are
smitten blind.

Gold! There is no other word that means quite so much. We want gold; indeed, we must have it.
Malleable, divisible, indestructible, rare, it is the indispensable medium of exchange. It
is our chosen unit of power and success, the measure of civilization and human attainment.
Hence it has always been the object of human desire. The Golden Fleece very probably was the
sheepskin bottom of an old-time sluice-box, in a day when they used wool, instead of blankets,
below the rocker troughs. In the vast ruined civilization of Southeast Africa unknown men once
mined probably $400,000,000 worth of gold. There are mines profitably operated in Greece to-day
which the Phoenicians opened 1,200 B. C. Sixteen hundred years later the Romans owned all the
mines in Europe. Hannibal once paid his warriors in gold coin of Carthage. Egypt was settled
by the Semitic races 2,500 B. C., because of the gold that was found there. A thousand years
later Job knew about gold, and five hundred years later still, King Solomon showed what an
abundance of wives and what a reputation for wisdom a man can get when he has unlimited gold
mines back of him. Columbus found America when he was searching for the wealth of Ormus and
of Ind. Cortez and Pizarro toiled and slew in the hope of finding the Madre d'Oro. The great
discoveries of the world have been made by men in search of gold. The great voyages of exploration
were in part piratical voyages made in search of gold already found and mined by others.

HONEST MINING IN HANNIBAL'S TIME

But there is to be said about gold mining ways of the old time, that Tyre sought gold with
actual ships, with actual men and mining implements. The peninsula of Sinai did not sell stock,
but mined actual gold. Gold in those days meant actual risk and courage. Perhaps even then
fraudulent promoters weren't unknown; but he who ventured, in the days of Vespasian or Hannibal
or Hiram, too prominently to gild the gold brick certainly lost his head. The mining of gold
was then a sober and serious and honest matter.

In America we place the gold brick ahead of the gold mine. We mix alloy of duplicity and greed
with the virgin metal of our standard of value. By improved mining methods we nearly double
our output of gold, and so cheapen it by well-nigh a half. This shrunken gold dollar is small
enough; but that is not all. We adulterate and divide it by, say, another half when we falsely
double its cost. This we certainly do when we issue counterfeit promises as against good coin;
for in civilization and commerce always the genuine coinage has to pay the cost of the counterfeit.
Your tailor charges you a stiff price for your suit of clothes. That covers the clothes of
the dead beats who did not pay. To allow the sale of a fraudulent mining stock is to depreciate
the basis of this country's values. Such a wrong ought not to be allowed in a country claiming
an enlightened government.

It is the thief who is protected in America, not his dupe. The old law of caveat emptor protects
the SELLER of fake mining stocks, not the BUYER of them. There is little or no actually enforced
law to protect the latter. That is to say, there is little or no actually enforced law to protect
those who most need protection, those of small incomes, orphans who have no guardians, wage
earners who have little education, widows whose life insurance is not quite enough to support
them, women engaged in the desperate battle of life and needing more money, quick money, better
to protect themselves. The fence between these and the natural perils of the world is slight
enough. In America we break it down entirely.

We offer these helpless ones freely as victims to the greater cunning and strength of men wholly
without sense of business honor or personal decency. When we do this, we also attack the whole
system of savings banks, which is, or should be, the very bulwark of a nation's financial safety.
Says the wolf to the widow, to the busy professional man, to the clerk, the stenographer, the
wage earner: "Take your money out of the savings bank. What is three per cent. a year, when
I can make you three hundred per cent. a year? Give your money to me!" We permit that. Our
national government does not undertake to put a stop to it; our states do not undertake to
do so; and this fact is more possible through actual lack of proper statutes than through any
misinterpretation or lack of enforcement of the law.

The field is one devised by nature for the trickster. His success does not depend altogether
on human gullibility; part of his argument rests on the conditions which surround the industry
of mining, one which never can be free of extreme risk. All men know that gold is found far
away, where living is high and means of transportation are scarce; that it costs large sums
to find and dig it, and that such sums are more easily raised among the many than among the
few. None of these attending features has weight to stop the capitalization of bona-fide enterprises.
These latter are used as bait by men who have nothing bona-fide to offer, and who make their
fattest profits out of their shallowest shafts.

THE "SUCKER LIST" IN WALL STREET

Methods vary among such fraudulent operators, but new victims continually are found. The "sucker
list" of one firm in Wall Street numbers 110,000 names, selected as those of persons who will
bite more than once at a mining scheme, and whose records show that they have so bitten. This
operator proudly declares that the only way a sucker can get his name off that list is to die.
In the reorganization of the firm of Douglas, Lacey & Co., of New York City, it was discovered
that 20,000 persons had money invested in stocks of the company.

The best bait in this particular operation was a "trust fund" established for the benefit of
stockholders. The proceeds of the better-paying mines were to be applied to pay dividends for
those which were less successful. In this way, the various directors of the many Douglas-Lacey
Companies explained, it was impossible for the investors to lose. But they did lose. The reorganization,
intended to save some of the better properties, wiped out more than seventy per cent. of the
small stockholders--widows, schoolteachers, stenographers, washwomen, scrubwomen--all who once
had a dollar in the stocking.

Burr Brothers, Inc., of New York, used the effective bait of the instalment plan of payment.
Their literature and advertising offered sudden wealth at twenty cents a share, payments to
be in instalments, "the best twenty offers" to be accepted. It was pointed out that if one
made one's weekly payment large enough to be included among the fortunate twenty, one could
have a nice, clean certificate sent to one immediately, and pay for it at one's leisure. If
you think the operators could not afford to do that, you are ignorant. There was an old negro
woman in the South who often importuned her white friends for funds to build a certain somewhat
mythical church. They asked her what she received for the time spent in collecting. "I has
what I gits," was her frank response. She enunciated a great modern mining principle which
has made fortunes in Denver, Butte, New York, Boston, and many other places where handsome
lithographic work is done, and where advertising space can be bought in journals considered
reputable.

NEW ENGLAND "DONE" BY AN INSANE MAN

Sometimes there are victims in enterprises of this sort where there probably was no deliberate
intent to deceive or to defraud. Not long ago, in Boston, one Henry D. Reynolds, formerly president
of the Reynolds Alaska Development Company, was brought before the United States Circuit Court
on the charge of using the United States mails with intent to defraud. Three alienists are
said to have declared him insane. In 1907 ex-Governor John G. Brady, of Alaska, endorsed Reynolds
and his schemes, and is reported to have collected in New England about $450,000 for these
Reynolds projects. Brady gave "lectures" and stereopticon exhibitions in New England churches.
Reynolds took out an excursion of Boston and New England investors to Prince William Sound,
at one time, and showed them the seacoast of Alaska, practically all of which he claimed to
own. At Boulder Bay he took his party into a long tunnel, the face of which they were told
was composed of solid copper ore. When they emerged into the garish light of day, each was
given a bright copper nugget, said to have come from the mine.

ALASKA REYNOLDSIZED

Really, according to local report, these nuggets of native copper had been taken from sluice
boxes on Chittitu Creek, 235 miles inland. Reynolds, so ran the story, had treated them with
an acid bath to brighten them, knowing that bright bait is better. At any rate, the good, sober
New Englanders went back home and sent him $300,000 more, which set him entirely "dippy," in
local phrase.

Reynolds's scheme was to run all the barber shops, laundries, bars, and pretty much everything
else on the Alaskan coast. A certain Sam Blum had a store and bank; Reynolds wanted it; and
Blum, it is alleged, annexed $50,000 of the New England money as a forfeited first payment
on his property. A steamship company, it was said, got $75,000 of money on a forfeit. So the
good New England savings merrily disappeared, in one of the most spectacular farces ever known
in Alaska; which latter is too good and valid and valuable a national possession to permit
to be Reynoldsized, as it has been. Reynolds, in the belief of one who knew him well, was a
combination of the ignorant enthusiast, the wild promoter, and the crazy man; and as for Brady,
another Alaskan called him "nothing worse than an innocent old ninny." Yet, even with so sorry
a mental equipment, these two took something like half a million out of conservative New England!
The ease with which money can be raised for such enterprises by the deliberately fraudulent
or the unintentionally insane continues one of the wonders of our civilization.

Another kind of bait offered is that of the "prominent name." This has proved more useful in
England than in this country. Whittaker Wright was able to secure members of the nobility for
his boards of directors, and the English public swallowed his schemes one after another, bait,
hook, bob, and sinker. In this country we have no lords whom we dearly love, so the names of
prominent literary or scientific men sometimes are employed by wise promoters. A "prominent
mining expert" is excellent bait. Some good men have been used in this way, and the bait of
their reputation in other lines of activity has served to make ignorant and innocent people
of small means swallow the hook hid in the lying statements which they have perhaps innocently,
certainly ignorantly, fathered. We are all familiar with the literature of this class, sent
to us under the guise of personal and intimate confidence. Always that part of the communication
is followed by the blackfaced type where the stinger lies concealed. The words AT ONCE usually
come in capitals, as do LAST CHANCE, and PRICE POSITIVELY WILL ADVANCE AFTER TEN DAYS. Millions
and millions of dollars have been extracted from the public by these means. There is no law
against it.

"ADJOINING" MINES--GOOD BAIT

Then there is the same old argument about wonderful properties "adjoining" such and such a
dividend-paying property. Very often the properties are miles apart. They might be within twenty-five
feet of each other, and one still might be worthless and the other rich. The profits of old
and famous properties very frequently are given in advertising literature of this class, "to
show what money there is in mining." The "property" sold may be a ten-foot hole in a sand-bank
two thousand miles from any of these; yet this absurd argument is sufficient to extract coin
from the pocket of the American buyer. You can use Michigan to tout him on to Arizona; Utah
to land him in California; Mexico to interest him in Alaska. Is it not true? There is no law
against it.

Again, the appeal to your mining pocket may come, not through the advertising page, but in
the proper person of the promoter or owner himself. For instance, not long ago a gentleman
from California came into my office. He owned a mine on the old and well-traced Mother Vein,
of Tuolumne County, California. It had been well opened, and showed, in development, according
to a reputable engineer's report, three million dollars' worth of ore in sight, with many tons
of the best ore already in the dump, stuff which would run very high in value.

At the proper time the gentleman carefully produced from his pocket a little ingot of pure
gold, product of one test-mill run. He gave the best of references as to his responsibility.
He offered to guarantee ten per cent. dividends on all money invested, and declared that he
had a banking proposition and not a mine.

WHEELBARROW VS. $72,000

"My Christian friend," said I to him, "you seem to have a good thing. How far is it from your
mine dump to the nearest bank?"

"About five miles," he answered.

"In that case," said I, "it seems to me you don't need to sell a hundred thousand dollars'
worth of stock to build a stamp-mill. You need only enough to buy yourself a good, strong wheelbarrow.
In two or three months you can thus build your own stamp-mill and pay for it with ore, and
still have your mine all in your own hands."

He could not see it that way, and, pursuing his own method, he took $72,000 in two weeks out
of the city of Chicago, from some of the best business men of that city. Now, perhaps he had
a real mine. I have no right to doubt that he had; but the point of interest to the small investor
is this: NEITHER HAVE I ANY RIGHT TO BELIEVE THAT HE HAD. The thing for me to do, had I wished
to invest in this way, would have been to send an expert to see the property personally.

ENTER THE FINANCIAL AGENT

In this game of plucking the dollars of the poor and the ignorant, there has been a gradual
improvement in methods. The constant aim has been, first, to increase the amount of the harvest;
second, to reduce to a minimum the risk the reapers run of detection and punishment by the
authorities. Experience in most lines of commercial activity has shown that the middlemen often
gather in the largest profits and have the smallest losses. Many of those working the mining
game--and by this is meant selling stocks on wind and water--have made use of this fact. To-day
in the majority of cases we have, in place of the prospector or the company selling stock direct
to the suckers, the financial or fiscal agent. He operates either under the name of a banking
firm or as a security company, which is generally a registered trade-name intended as a cloak
to cover the names of individuals not desirous of publicity.

The financial agent of this description is in reality the organizer and promoter of the mining
company whose stock he sells. But should trouble come along, he is the first to assert that
he has been deceived as well as his customers. He sells the shares of the mine on a commission
basis so large that practically nothing is left for development. He takes out of the money
secured large salaries and the entire expense of advertising and carrying on the exploitation.
He prepares all the literature. One of the advantages he claims for his proposition is the
wide distribution of the stock as a safeguard against assault by wicked Wall Street interests.

CULLED TWO MILLIONS IN FOUR YEARS

In this wide distribution, however, lies one of his own greatest safeguards against either
criminal or civil prosecution. Scattered over the country are his investors--the mill hand,
the poor seamstress, the humble artisan, whose total investments, comprising perhaps all their
savings, seldom exceed one hundred dollars each; and, with their savings gone, there isn't
money left to pay carfare to the office of the financial agent, let alone to undertake a civil
suit or enlist the aid of the authorities. The poor seamstress has no way of knowing any of
her fellow unfortunates. Hence the utter impossibility of cooperation in seeking to get back
their savings.

As an example of the fiscal agent, there may be cited the concern of Douglas, Lacey & Company,
already mentioned, a concern which in four years, through its operations in this country and
in Canada, culled from the people of this country, according to its own statement, over $2,000,000
in exchange for stock certificates in more than forty varieties of mining companies. Here is
a letter written to a woman by this concern four years after she had invested all her savings
in the stock of one of these companies through this concern, showing the advantage of the fiscal
agency plan:

DOUGLAS, LACEY & CO.        Financial Agents     66 Broadway.    New York Cable Address "Douglacey"--Anglo-American
and Bedford McNeil Codes Telephone, 790 & 791 Rector

DEAR MADAM:                          June 2, 1908.

Replying to your favor of June 1st would say that we do not find in our files any recent letter
from you, and your letter addressed care of 44 Wall Street has probably gone to the Dead Letter
Office, from which you will in time receive it.

Now, in reply to your question, we think if you are at all familiar with business procedure,
you will see that it would be impossible for the fiscal agents of any of the companies to return
money which had been paid for shares and which had been turned over by the fiscal agents to
the treasury of the various companies and expended in development work on the different properties.

It is true that we have sold stock for our customers at various times and we are glad to do
so when it is possible. At the present time, however, as this company is in process of reorganization,
there would be no market for its stock and for this reason we are unable to help you in the
way you request.    

 Very truly yours             Douglas, Lacey & Co.

In pursuing this method, few promoters have had the success of Dr. John Grant Lyman. He is
credited with having gathered in a half million dollars in his International Zinc operations.
This company was supposed to have valuable zinc properties in the Joplin district of Missouri.
To unload its stock on the people of this country Lyman organized the firm of Joshua Brown
& Company, Bankers, incorporated under the laws of West Virginia. Through them the stock was
sold until the collapse of the scheme in 1901, when the investors found that what property
it did own was heavily mortgaged. While the firm was taking in the money, Lyman maintained
a racing stable, had a reputation as a daring automobilist, and even invaded the sacred precincts
of the New York Stock Exchange.

LYMAN'S SCHEME TO GET STOCKING SAVINGS

Three years ago the papers throughout this country were filled with the advertisements of the
Union Securities Company, selling the stock of the Boston Greenwater Copper Company. It was
stated that the mine had cost $200,000 and that so much ore was in sight that an offer of $400,000
had been refused. The Union Securities Company, with offices in New York and in Goldfield,
Nevada, started the stock at forty-five cents and lifted it to a dollar. It was merely another
name for John Grant Lyman. Not only did the Union Securities company sell the stock to the
public, but it also offered it to brokers at thirty-seven and a half cents, on their guarantee
that it would not be sold by them at less than forty-five cents. The brokers began getting
contracts for the stock and then were told that the Union Securities Company was all sold out. 

Shortly thereafter, confederates of Lyman came to these brokers and offered stock to them at
fifty cents a share; and the Union Securities Company at the same time telegraphed the brokers
that it wanted all the shares it could get at sixty cents. That forced the brokers to buy of
confederates; but when they shipped on the stock to the Union Securities Company, expecting
to get sixty cents a share for it, Lyman was gone. It had not cost him much. He owed the newspapers
of this country $150,000 for advertising, which went unpaid. He reaped $300,000 profits. Boston
Greenwater Copper stock can still be found in many a stocking--of humble folk.

"SALTING" WITH A CIGARETTE

It is not, however, always the city promoter who furnishes all of the crookedness. He himself
may be deceived by those who sell him the mine. Some of the most thrilling stories in literature
might be written about salted mines. The sale of the Bear's Nest Mine, and the special train
expedition to the salted Bear River placer field; the sale of the Mulatos Mine to a set of
Chinamen, and scores of other instances in American mining history, have been regarded rather
as big jokes than as great lessons. And as to such large jesting we advance in finesse. The
old way of salting a placer or a quartz vein with a shotgun is now antiquated.

A little while ago a party of capitalists bought a Nevada placer on what they thought to be
strictly a "cinch" basis. With their own hands they collected the specimen dirt from all over
the claim, and they watched a Mexican miner pan the dirt at the creek. The pans showed up beautifully.
They bought the claim. Later, it proved worthless. Afterward they remembered that the Mexican
smoked cigarettes all the time he was panning, and that he was careless in expectorating, as
well as in knocking the ashes off his cigarettes. The truth was that the highly intelligent
Greaser was using the cigarette trick in salting the pan. There was much fine gold in his cigarette
and under his lip!

THE MULATOS MINE SALTING SCHEME

All sorts of methods of salting mines, even to the injection, with a hypodermic needle, of
strong solutions of mineral salts into a mining engineer's carefully sealed sample bags, have
been worked. The most honest, careful, and expert mining engineers have been deceived time
and again, and salted right under their own eyes. Even a bland Chinee may be fooled. Take the
instance of the Mulatos Mine: The bunch of Chinamen who proposed to buy it insisted on a mill-run
test on fresh-mined ore, taken out BY THEMSELVES, for a five-days' run. They were not taking
any chances, in their own belief. The owners of the mine, however--so runs the story--had a
platform of plank arranged above the timbers at the top of the drift where the Chinamen brought
out their ore cars. On this planking a man lay face downward where he could see each ore car
that passed. He had a rather hard life for five days on the sandwiches and water which he took
up there with him, but he managed to drop a pinch or so of nice gold dust into every car of
ore that came trundling under him. The mill-run was an entire success from the viewpoint of
the sellers, although not from that of the buyers.

There is no working law, let us repeat, which actually protects the investor against this sort
of thing, nor which always protects even the promoter, though he be honest. The game is risky
all the way along the line, in spite of state laws against the heinous crime of salting, which
latter hath as yet by no means lost its savor.

      THE MAIL AND MINING THIEVES

As matters stand to-day, the man selling mining stock on a fraudulent basis fears the Post
Office Department much more than he fears the District Attorney. That is the main protection
which the public has against such schemes. But to depend upon it is like trying to stop Niagara
with a dam of reeds. The man who induces you to take your money out of the savings bank in
exchange for stock in a mine, through such operations as have been described, thrives by reason
of his use of the United States mails. It is a mail-order business pure and simple.

Let us see what machinery the Government has to protect you and prevent the letter-carrier
from bringing daily to your door the flamboyant literature intended to lure your money from
the bank. There are five hundred Post-Office inspectors employed in watching Uncle Sam's mail
wherever it is carried, in keeping the vast and complicated machinery of the Post Office Department
oiled and working smoothly, in running down Post-Office robbers and mail thieves and, lastly,
in keeping the mail free from frauds. Ninety per cent. of this force is required to do the
routine work of the inspecting branch; that is to keep the machinery running smoothly and to
prevent delays. That leaves just ten per cent. for actual detective work such as is necessary
in running down thieves and in tracing frauds. In the New York district, which comprises the
state of New York as well as New York City, there is a force of twenty-five men working under
a chief inspector. Of the ten men assigned to work in New York City, by no means all have special
detective ability, and the time of these is taken up almost entirely in catching actual thieves.

   POST-OFFICE PROTECTION INADEQUATE

It is only the biggest and most barefaced scheme that under these conditions can receive any
attention whatsoever from the department, and even then its force is hopelessly inadequate
and incompetent for the work in hand, work requiring the highest-class detective ability.

About twelve years ago the Post Office Department ran down and convicted a swindler, Stephen
Balliet, who was selling stock in a mine full of water in Oregon and was known as "the mining
genius of the Northwest." He was tried three times, finally convicted, and sent to prison.
That case cost the Post Office Department $18,000, took a man's entire time for two years,
and required two trips across this continent. The Government has not tried since to get many
such convictions.

Perhaps because of the pressure of other work, perhaps for other causes, investigations of
this nature are allowed to languish. Some years ago, when the firm of Douglas, Lacey & Company
was reaping its harvest, an inspector was assigned to investigate the concern's operations.
He was one of the ablest inspectors of the service, a man with real detective ability and a
knowledge of the devious ways of certain kinds of financing. He made a trip to Mexico and subsequently
sent in a report to Washington recommending that a fraud order be issued against the concern
and that its use of the mails be stopped. He waited a long time and then got word from Washington
that more evidence was required. He made another investigation and sent in another report,
recommending in even stronger language that the mails be barred and the public protected. While
on this work he was constantly assigned also to other matters and finally was shifted to a
station in the South. The concern collapsed some years later, leaving thousands of people in
this country and in Canada bereft of their small savings. There was no fraud order ever issued
against this firm, though shortly before it closed up it was informed that if it continued
to sell stock its use of the mails would be stopped.

The burden of proof is on the buyer. If he turns to the District Attorney he finds perhaps
a sympathetic official, without power to assist him. The man selling bogus mining stocks knows
all this; therefore his harvest goes on. It is better than the green-goods game, better than
the wire-tapping swindle, safer than selling any other form of gold bricks. A few years ago
a reporter who was engaged in investigating the schemes of Cardenio F. King--now in Charlestown
jail, but then posing as "the apostle of the golden rule in finance" and selling his stocks
by the barrel in every mill town in New England--made a call on the late John B. Moran, then
District Attorney in Boston and widely known as a reformer. He asked Mr. Moran's help in proving
that King was a swindler.

"Young man," said Boston's reform District Attorney, "if King was selling corner lots in heaven
and advertising them in the newspapers, I couldn't stop him, because I haven't anybody to send
up there and prove that they are not there."

King wasn't selling corner lots in heaven, but he was selling stock in a Texas company that
was the next thing to it, so far as tangibility is concerned. It was only when he actually
took from investors money sent to him to buy real stocks, and pocketed it, that he was put in jail.

LAWS TO PROTECT INVESTORS

A plan for the protection of the investor by statute is embodied in a model law drafted by
the American Mining Congress of Denver, and recommended for general passage:

AN ACT.

To Prohibit the Making or Publishing of False or Exaggerated Statements or Publications of
or Concerning the Affairs, Pecuniary Condition or Property of Any Corporation, Joint Stock
Association, Co-partnership or Individual, Which Said Statements or Publications Are Intended
to Give, or Shall Have a Tendency to Give, a Less or Greater Apparent Value to the Shares,
Bonds or Property, or Any Part Thereof of Said Corporation, Joint Stock Association, Co-partnership
or Individual, Than the Said Shares, Bonds or Property Shall Really and in Fact Possess, and
Providing a Penalty Therefor.

Section 1.

This law has been enacted in six states and a campaign for its general enactment is under way.
But let not the credulous investor suppose that even such a law would guarantee him against
loss. The Secretary of the American Mining Congress, Mr. James F. Callbreath, offers the following
comment:

CAMPAIGN OF THE AMERICAN MINING CONGRESS

"I do not believe that any one law can effect protection to mining investors, nor that the
protection afforded through the Post Office Department forbidding the use of mails for fraudulent
advertising matter can fully cover that ground. The greater part of mining frauds are perpetrated
without the use of the mails.

"The proposed law, in our judgment, is the longest possible step toward preventing mining frauds.
A second step has been taken in the form of a publicity law. My belief is that no system of
laws, either state or national, will prevent men from gambling in mines more effectually than
such laws now prevent gambling in its more common forms. These may restrict and furnish protection
to those who are wise enough to open their eyes, but it will be impossible to protect all the
fools all the time. It is the purpose of the American Mining Congress, after having secured
the enactment of laws providing penalties for fraudulent representations and requiring publicity,
to perfect an organization to SECURE EXECUTION of these laws, and also to carry on campaigns
of education showing to investors, first, that mining is a legitimate business and not a gamble;
second, that mines are found and not made; third, that investments in mining should be made
with the same care and prudence exercised by business men when embarking in other business
enterprises. . . . The next work of our organization will be along the line of developing some
manner of control of corporations by which paid-up capital stock shall represent actual value."

Mr. Callbreath would seem to be one fore-doomed to his own troubles; yet it is clear that he
and his organization stand for legitimate mining as opposed to prospect-selling. In strictly
accurate phrase, it is the prospect which is found, and the mine which is made and investment
cannot properly begin until a body of ore has been blocked out in a proved prospect. Add to
the glamor of risk the haze of fraud, and the foregoing will show the nebulous condition of
mining investments in relation to mining laws in America to-day.

What we really need is a Bureau of Mines at Washington. Nobody protects the mining investor.
Nobody guards the widest open gate into the savings deposits of this country.

The American Mining Congress, it should be stated, had a quasi pre-inaugural pledge from President
Taft in favor of a Federal Bureau of Mines. Toward this we have made a start. A bill establishing
this Bureau has already passed both the House and the Senate, and bids fair to become a law.
But the activities of this new department will be confined to safe-guarding mineworkers. The
next step should be to enlarge the province of the Bureau so as to include the supervision
of the mining industry for the protection of investors.

It seems quite likely that the states and the nation will need to unite if adequate protection
to the investing public is to be expected. But when did state and nation unite to solve a great
popular problem? When did section ever unite with section or even resident with nonresident?
This is America.

THE ENGLISH WAY OF MINING--HONEST BUSINESS

Back of any movement of this kind there must be popular interest in popular education. Thus
far, the greater publicity idea is of more value than anything at hand. We may perhaps. best
do our own little part by offering some studies in the theory of mining, showing just WHY it
is risky, and just HOW we ought to tabulate the risk. In addition to this, we can present,
and should perhaps first present, some of the results of intelligent mining as pursued in other
countries.

Take the Rand Mines of South Africa, operated on the English basis--mines which turned out
more than $12,500,000 in one month not long since. The English method of operating on the Rand
is this: A corps of experts is sent to examine a proposed property--that is to say, a proved
prospect. If their report be favorable, an estimate is made of the cost of a five-or seven-compartment
shaft, to be sunk, say, 3,500 feet. The cost of producing a year's supply of ore for the mill
is then considered. The cost of the mill and the cyanide plant is also figured. The total cost
is then cast up, and the company is ready to be formed for a half million to five millions
of dollars, according to existing conditions. This money is paid in, and is ready to start
operations. These men mine carefully, using all possible scientific knowledge and practical
experience as guides. The operation may have risk, but it is perforce honest.

THE AMERICAN WAY--A GAMBLE

Now let us examine conditions not infrequent in the United States, by no means assigning wings
to all English mining men, or hoofs to all Americans:

A prospector discovers mineralized rock. He locates one or more claims as controlled by the
laws of the district where he is. Perhaps others also locate more ground. A little work is
done, and then the claims are up for sale. A claim is perhaps sold for a few hundred to several
thousand dollars; sometimes the seller receives in addition stock in the company to be formed.
No attention is paid to the geology, but a company is formed ostensibly for the purpose of
mining, with a capital of one million shares at one dollar par. Perhaps four hundred thousand
shares are placed in the treasury to be sold for development purposes. Of course the whole
thing is as yet on a wholly gambling basis. The property is still a prospect and not a mine,
and hence it is not possible to put it on an investing basis. Comparatively few companies have
ever used the services of a real expert, although very possibly the company furnishes a report
made from a purchasable local "mining engineer," one of the cheapest commodities in any mining
district, where the wide hat and the high-laced boot often take the place of a mining education
and a reputable character. This is the stage at which, this is the basis on which, most of
the mining "investments" of America are made.

In this state of affairs grafters find their opportunity. Prices in a boom camp are always
above any sort of industrial warrant. There were literally millions of dollars poured into
Goldfield and Tonopah for claims which never had any careful examination by competent men.
Fortunes were made by local promoters and "operators" out of claims which could not show ten
feet of actual work. Sometimes the entire capitalization was sold out, and the promoters put
the money in their pockets. One operator of this kind sold $130,000 worth of stock, and omitted
the precaution of putting even ten per cent. of it in the treasury. Fortunately, he got into
the penitentiary. Many of his fellows never had actions brought against them except under the
postal laws, which naturally are inefficient. There was one shaft of a hundred feet which cost
twelve thousand dollars, charged up to the stockholders, the names of dead men being used on
the pay rolls as "laborers." The mine boss and the local officers got big salaries to keep
their mouths shut. The real mine was in the savings banks of America, in the pockets of non-residents.
In Nevada alone, in the past four years, more than twenty million dollars have been invested
in WORTHLESS properties. One engineer with a government certificate could have saved the clerks,
stenographers, widows, washwomen, and orphans of America fifteen million dollars at the cost
of, say, five thousand. Would that have been a good investment? What could a dozen do? What
could an efficient corps do? Is there here yet one more future task for our patient and long-suffering
United States Army? What police work would pay better dividends?

THE PROMOTER AND THE CREAM

Even when the mine wins, the small stock-holder rarely wins. The promoters often take the cream.
Suppose a company is organized for three million shares. One million is put in the treasury
for sale. Of this million shares, say, two hundred thousand are offered at twenty-five cents.
This raises a working capital of fifty thousand dollars. Let us be very glowing, and suppose
that, with this fifty thousand dollars, we really uncover five million dollars' worth of ore.
The net profit would not exceed three million dollars; so that the man who put in twenty-five
cents might, after a long time, get back a dollar. In the meantime, two million dollars would
have gone to promoters, in "commissions," and so forth. There are thousands of such cases,
and still the people continue to bite on such bait.

THE PUBLIC = THE MINE

Instances of actual Nipissing rises caught in time by the lamb are very rare. I rom first to
last, the PUBLIC is the mine, AND THE RETURNS COME OUT OF THE SAVINGS BANKS. In some mines
"high grading"--the carrying away of valuable pieces of ore by the miners themselves--is fought
as sternly as the diamond stealing by the Kaffirs in a Kimberley mine. In yet other mines,
far more numerous, high grading is encouraged among the miners. The report gets out that the
ore is so rich that the miners steal it in their dinner pails. That booms the stock. WALL STREET
MAKES THIS MONEY OUT OF THE MARKET AND NOT OUT OF THE MINE.

In spite of all warning and all examples, the average American will to a certain extent persist
in gambling in mining stocks. Supposing this to be true, it is of value for the investor to
learn something of the theory of mines, something enabling him to pass on the natural value
of any mining stock which is offered to him. What, then, is a mine? What are some of the inevitable
features in developing a mine?

In the first place, there must be prospecting. This is sheer and unavoidable risk on the face
of it, and it is attended with economic waste which cannot be avoided. Of a hundred prospectors,
ninety-nine die poor. The failures must be charged off to industrial waste attendant upon inherent
conditions of the mining industry.

Again, in the development of a mine after it is located and proved in part, there is more unavoidable
economic waste. The rock is blank and silent. It can only be explored by means of expensive
drifts and drillings. In one mine at Bisbee, Arizona, a shaft was sunk which had drifts at
the 600-and 900-feet levels, all without result. Later on they found a blanket of copper between
those two levels, from which six million dollars were taken. Even in old established mines
there is something of a chance, and there are often unwittingly false standards of values.
Which is no argument for making all gamble that which originally was part gamble.

Any mine, no matter how rich, or how large, begins to be exhausted from the time the first
pick is stuck into the ground and all its profits ought to be figured on the basis of diminishing
deposits. When your deposit is drawn out, your bank does not honor your check. A mine is the
reverse of a mortgage or a bond. The security does not remain stable nor increase in value,
but, on the contrary, CONTINUALLY DECREASES in value. In a mortgage, six per cent. is wisdom;
in a mining return, it is folly. A mine, instead of being figured on the basis of a mortgage,
ought to be figured on the basis of a term annuity. That is to say, on the basis of a wiping
out date. When the mine is done paying dividends, there is no return of the face of the principal
invested. Yet the great and gullible public forgets this all-important fact, which differentiates
mining from every other form of business.

CRACKER-BOX INVESTORS

There is every probability that the average investor never heard of a proper "amortization
charge" in the management of a mine. Until he shall have heard of it, until he shall have learned
something of the terms of life annuities, he ought never to invest a cent in any mining stock.
After he actually has learned the theory of amortization, he will observe that ALMOST EVERY
MINING STOCK LISTED IN PUBLIC PRINTS IS SELLING AT AN INFLATED VALUE. That is to say, even
the best and most stable of mines are overrated, not to mention the purely wildcat ventures.
Some mines may naturally be long-lived, others short-lived; yet, if either pays a good, stiff
dividend, THE PUBLIC MAKES NO DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE TWO and will buy the stock of either.
In this investing, the public has no protection on the part of the government, on the part
of honest publicity, or on the part of its own careful education.

In the MAJORITY of cases, a mine ought to pay annually perhaps twenty per cent. of the investment,
to be profitable. That is to say, the actual value of any mine is rarely over five times actual
dividends paid after expenses of operation. How many mines are capitalized on any such real
basis as that? The answer lies in our own ignorance, and in the shrewdness of the men who sell
us mining stocks. Stocks that are the best dividend-payers often sell at TEN or TWELVE times
the face of the annual dividends. Let the mine hit a brief streak of bonanza, and the stocks
will climb yet higher. We buy such stocks, or worse; but even a fundamental acquaintance with
the theory of mines would show us that such an investment is usually a bad one. In a mortgage
we do not look to the interest to pay us back our principal; in a mine we MUST look to DIVIDENDS
to pay us back our PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST also. When the mine is done, our principal is gone.
But how many mining investors ever thought of that? And how many, when offered a ten per cent.
"guaranteed dividend" for five years on their money, ever stop to reflect that, for instance,
I could take your money and put it in a cracker box, and myself make money by paying it back
to you, ten per cent. a year for nine years--and then explaining what had happened to the cracker
box! Now, most of us are just such cracker-box investors. We pay out millions and millions
annually, just that foolishly. And our nation, our states, allow us to do it. They even--as
recent legal proceedings prove--allow the "inside" operating stockholders to borrow money to
pay dividends to the "outsiders." That keeps up the "values" in the market. It does not enhance
the real value in the mine.

ENGLISH VS. AMERICAN MINE REPORTS

Again, granted even a valid and a well-managed mine, how much information regarding it does
the average investor in the stock secure? In a general way, he knows in advance that all mining,
whether placer or quartz, is very expensive. Beyond that, he gets the annual report of the
officers, which will tell perhaps the names of the men who are spending his money, the total
earnings, the total output, the balance sheet, the statement of capital stock issued--and little
else. All of which means nothing!

A well-regulated English company is obliged to go much farther than this. A good annual report
will show the advertisement of the general meeting of stockholders, the list of directors and
officers, reports of directors, giving details of the condition of property, including the
development work, the tonnage of production, the values recovered from such tonnage, the costs
of operation, the profits for the period covered, the balance sheet of accounts, the profit
and loss statement, including a working cost estimate, the appropriation list showing what
has been done with all the earnings, the reports of managers giving details of the development
work, the estimated values of ores EXPOSED ON THREE SIDES, the probable values of ores not
so well exposed, the working expenses, the construction account, general remarks on the physical
condition of the property, and a map of the property itself.

What American promoter would trouble himself to make such a showing as that to the American
sucker? Even if such detailed information existed in the records of the average American mining
concern, the sucker could not get access to the books even did he have the temerity to demand it.

Professor H. S. Munroe, of the Columbia School of Mines, when asked whether such a thing as
general supervision of mining investment could be possible, answered: "Yes, if some philanthropist
will give us ten millions to endow such an institution, and maintain a corps of engineers in
the field who will do work similar to that accomplished by J. Curle under the auspices of the
London Economist. Such work should, of course, cover all incorporated mining companies, not
merely a few hundred of the more prominent gold mines; and it should be continuous and not
spasmodic. Such a plan is of course Utopian, but I feel that anything less would be likely
to do little good. Even Curle's opinions began to lose their value within a month or two after
they were written, and are of less value every year. Mining can never be put on the same basis
as agriculture, for the reason that the risk of failure is infinitely greater, and that it
is impossible to prove the value of any mine or mining region without spending a large amount
of capital, the greater part of which will inevitably be lost in this work of initial development."

Those are the sober words of an expert who spends his life in studying the theory and practice
of mining. If such words shall teach us a little wisdom, so much the less need for laws. But
let us consider what the laws ought to do in order to protect you for the sake of your family,
and for the sake of society, and for the sake of the savings which lie back of the prosperity
of this country.

Let us agree that no government can guarantee the safety of any investment. Let us admit that
digging gold can never be put on the same amortization basis with digging potatoes, for instance,
because the soil remains for more potatoes, whereas the ore of a mine is exhausted and does
not raise more ore. Nevertheless, although the industries of potato growing and ore digging
are not the same, the principles lying back of them ought to be precisely the same; and our
governments, both state and national, ought to see to it that they are kept precisely the same,
and controlled on the same plane legally. If it be true that no government can watch after
every mine, none the less any enlightened government can establish general conditions for engaging
in mining or engaging in the sale of mining stock; and, perhaps with yet better results, it
can establish a general supervision over the mining intelligence of the public, just as it
does over the agricultural intelligence of that public.

NEEDED: A FEDERAL BUREAU OF MINES

The enactment of good mining laws, punishing the proved intent to commit a fraud as well as
the fraud itself, and seeing to it that capital stock shall be paid up, seeing to it also that
all moneys spent by a mining corporation shall be traceable from start to finish, is the natural
first step toward the purification of American mining methods. Beyond that, the national government
could take a hand in the game through a federal Bureau of Mines. There must be some clearing-house
of intelligence and of values in this country, some place from which our intelligence may start
and to which it may return. The public must have accessible reports of engineers, state or
federal, of a sort entitled to confidence.

The nest of vermin in our large cities, inhabited by those who make a living out of the ignorance
and eagerness of small investors, must be smoked out once and for all. In this work, state
and national governments, popular education and intelligence, and the aid of the better class
journalism of America, all must be enlisted. The pages of our press might well be far cleaner
than they are. The publication which prints the advertisements of a fake-mining enterprise
is itself a party to the fraud. A Bureau of Mines chief can sit behind the desk of every advertising
manager in the counting-rooms of every newspaper and magazine in America. The press of this
country, when it likes, can, by taking thought, somewhat dim the splendor of the mahogany in
many an elegant suite of offices in New York, Boston, or elsewhere. It can reduce the reckless
and senseless expenditure of ill-gained wealth which is making civilization a mockery in America,
and branding our republican form of government as a failure.

We will have a different way of life, or another form of government. We will have a better
administration of law in the United States or we will have another political party, possibly
another political system. We will clear up this rotten society, or we will try how we like
a different organization of society. The people of America are beginning to murmur. The burden
of the murmur is that they have long enough been betrayed. Unspeakable injustice has been done
the people of America under the forms of law and government. It is coming to be said that our
law and government have not an even hand for all, that a few are allowed to despoil the many.
When a people murmurs, let a government beware. Meantime the more that certain unspeakable
things are reduced in, and eliminated from, Wall Street and the other "financial centers,"
the better for our schools, our taxes, our farming, our industry, our living, our CHARACTER,
our country.

After all, the government of this country, as we now have it organized, depends on the CHARACTER
of its average individual citizen. The end of this abuse of fake-mining enterprises begins
now, here, with you and me, in OUR intelligence, in OUR love of a square game. By taking thought
we can add a cubit to our OWN stature, and so add to the stature of OUR laws and of our national
morality.

WHAT YOU AND I CAN DO

As for you and me, when next we see the flaming advertisement advising us that the Madre d'Oro,
Montezuma's fabled Mother Vein of Gold, has once more come to the surface of the earth on Manhattan
Island or near Plymouth Rock; when next we read counsel that because mining pays in Michigan
it ought to pay in Nevada; when next we are advised to get into the game at once because this
is our LAST CHANCE--we might at least ask to see the report of the engineer, likewise the record
and antecedents of the engineer; and many, many other things. Perchance we might write and
ask the mining promoter what, in his belief, is the proper amortization charge in his particular
mine. At which the average mining promoter would probably fall dead. 

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.1 JULY     1910

HOW THE MAN CAME TO TWINKLING ISLAND  {page 64-73}  By MELVILLE CHATER

OUT of the great world came a man to the wooing of Susanna Crane. From the vague southwest
he came, now skirting the chimneyed towns and elm-bordered village streets, now exchanging
the road for the bright rails and perhaps the interior of a droning freight-car, now switching
anew through the edge of odorous pine woods, yet leaving behind him always a wary, broken trail.

The man was tall and strong, with hair that gleamed red in the sun, and eyes of a reddish brown.
He walked with the free swing of a world wanderer, yet always his heart strained for a glimpse
of the Canadian border; for some hundreds of miles behind him lay the Vermont marble quarries
whose dust still faintly blanched his clothes, and there, in a drunken flight, he had killed
a man. He did not know that in fleeing from justice he was rushing into the arms of love; he
did not even know that he was in the Ragged Woods, with Twinkling Island just off the coast;
he only studied the tree bark and snuffed the breeze, and knew that the sea was near. At length,
well satisfied with the distance he had come since dawn, he cleared a space among the pine
cones, then lay down, and, lulled by the ancient whisper of the wind in the treetops, closed
his eyes.

He was of the Ulysses breed, this man, a wanderer of the earth, acquainted with many cities,
one whose shipwrecks and misfortunes had but whetted his love of life; and even while he slept,
there came upon him, as of old Nausicaa came upon Ulysses, a woman. She, too, was straight
and strong; her dark face was framed by a blue-checked sunbonnet; she carried a large basket
filled with blackberries, and her lips as well as her hands were stained. She saw the man lying
in a shaft of the sunset, and started back, then, tiptoeing past, bent forward slightly to
examine his face. In that lingering gaze a twig cracked beneath her foot. He sat up instantly,
tense, expectant; then for a silent space their eyes caught and clung. Thus the first pair
might have gazed when Adam wakened to find her who was bone of his bone, flesh of his flesh,
standing over him.

"Did I scare you, Miss?" at length asked the Man. "I thought--well, I didn't know who you might
be at first." His gaze deepened into unconcealed admiration. "I wouldn't scare YOU for anything!"

"I ain't so easy scairt," the girl returned defiantly. "Ef I was," she went on in her fresh,
young voice, full of queer, upward inflections, "I wouldn't be a-berryin' in Ragged Woods after
sundaown."

She marched onward, her head thrown well back. Twenty steps later the Man was again at her side.

"Pardoname, little one!" he said. "But, seein' you ain't scared, an' thar bein' no blaze in
these yere parts, maybe you'd put us on the trail. Guess I'd a-gone on siesterin' till midnight
if you hadn't a-happened by--gracias a Dios!"

Her glance shot suspicion at him as though she scented banter in the strange, foreign phrases;
then she said:

"Ef you mean you wanter git to Potuck, whar the railroad starts, you've got to walk three miles
back to the Potuck Road; then it's three miles west to Potuck taown."

"An' what lies on ahead, whar you're goin'?" he asked.

"Why, nothin'," she returned with a child's surprised simplicity. "Nothin' but Twinklin' Island
an' father an' me."

There was silence then, but the Man watched the strong, straight lines of her face, her keen
black eyes, her wealth of black hair tumbled into the back-fallen sunbonnet. At length he said
quietly:

"Think I'll g'long over with you to your island, camarada. Maybe your father's got a bite o'
something for a hungry man. I pay the freight, sabe? 'Twon't take me more'n a couple o' hours
to make the railroad to-night."

To this she vouchsafed nothing, but swung onward, shifting her heavy basket from one hand to
the other; then a strong grasp intervened, and she found herself burdenless. In the village
streets of Potuck and Nogantic, shamefaced lads had offered such help a hundred times, and
she had accepted it, flattered by their homage; but the quick, silent action of this big, red-haired
man thrilled her with strange anger.

"I don't want no help," she said proudly, "I kin carry that."

"Not while I'm here, chiquita mia!" He smiled downward, and his body seemed to loom over her
like a shield. "Say, when I woke up an' seen you, do you know what come into my head? A little
Navajo squaw I knowed once. Her name was Moonlight Water, but the fellers called her Little
Peachey. But she was twenty-five, and you--well, now, how old might you be?"

"Goin' on eighteen," she would have answered nonchalantly to any one else; for him there woke
from the depths of her nature a fierce retort:

"Give us that basket! I ain't a-goin' to let you carry it a speck further."

"ALL right," he acquiesced with broad, kind humor, vet without relinquishing his burden. "ALL
right, chiquita mia! Never you mind me, Little Peachey!"

They gained a bare tongue of land lapped by water. She stepped into a canoe, the Man following.
Very quickly he took the paddle from her and put forth with strong, practiced strokes, cheering
himself onward with snatches of a queer, guttural burden which he had picked up from a negro
chantey-singer on some Southern cotton-wharf.

Straight ahead lay the island, breasting the Atlantic swell. Seen from the distant hills, the
red sunset strikes its outpost cliffs for a moment's splendor, and so it is called Twinkling
Island. The girl said not a word, nor indeed was it necessary. He found the beach without trouble,
helped her ashore, and carried the canoe up the slope on his back. A hundred yards onward they
encountered a low, rambling house and the vague shape, in the twilight, of an elderly man smoking
his pipe on the steps.

The stranger set down the canoe and gave an account of himself. But even as the great Ulysses
was wont to name a false lineage and give a feigned story to his hosts, so this man said his
name was McFarlane--which it was not--and told a wily tale of having been directed to a logging
camp where hands were needed, of alighting at the wrong station and losing his way in an attempted
short cut through the woods. Meanwhile his listener, a man of weather-beaten face and a great
shock of gray hair, observed him with shrewd attention. At length he replied:

"Thar's few strangers git to Twinkling Island; but so long as you're here, you're welcome to
our plain victuals. The money's neither here nor thar. Git supper, daughter. Seems you're mighty
particular to git that canoe high an' dry to-night."

The girl wheeled abruptly and strode indoors, flashing at the stranger a covert, half-defiant
glance.

"Gals are queer cattle," mused old Crane, drawing off his fisherman's boots. " 'Pears to give
'em a kind o' satisfaction to set a man to work. Her mother was just the same, before her."

The guest said nothing; but the realization that the girl who had grudged his taking her basket
had afterward suffered him to carry her canoe quite an unnecessary distance, seemed to yield
him no unpleasant thoughts.

They sat down to supper in a low'ceiled room of smoked rafters. The stranger ate hungrily and
with few words, yet always his gaze followed the girl's slim figure as she moved to and fro,
waiting on the board. As the food disappeared, the talk sprang up. The girl brought in a huge
pitcher of cider and left the men by the fireplace, while she passed back and forth, clearing
away the dishes. Crane set out a decanter of whisky, which spirit he mixed sparingly with his
cider, as did also his guest--none too sparingly.

Now was the Man's heart loosened, and he told of all he had seen and done and lived; of his
spendthrift youth, passed aboard tramp freighters between Lisbon and Rio, Leith and Natal,
Tokyo, Melbourne and the Golden Gate--wherever the sea ran green; of ginseng-growing in China,
shellac gathering in India, cattle-grazing in Wyoming. He spoke of Alaskan totem-poles, of
Indian sign language, of Aztec monoliths buried in the forest. He sang "Lather an' Shavin's,"
"La Golondrina," "The Cowboy's Lament," and, clicking his fingers castanet-wise, hummed little
Spanish airs whose words he would by no means translate.

Crane marveled that this man should be still on the hitherward side of thirty; and as the stranger
sat there, his very clothes, poor rags of civilization, seemed to bulk with heroic lines, his
face to reflect man's primal freedom, while his every word rang with the sheer joy of the things
he had seen and known.

At a break in the talk, the girl, who, though she had constantly busied herself about the room,
had missed not a word, nodded significantly to her father, then walked from the house and out
into the night. He glanced after her for a moment, then turned with a queer smile.

"We're all 'baout the same, I reckon," he said, "so far as furren countries is consarned. That's
to say, a man allaways conceits thar's a heap o' promise waitin' for him, somewhar over yonder.
Naow, you've seen sights enough for a hundred men. Contrariwise, thar's my gal--never been
further'n the Caounty Fair. But that don't stop her; no sirree, human nature can't be stopped.
Every night, fair or storm, she walks daown an' sits on the rocks, lookin' seaward, before
she turns in. She's done it ever since she was SO high. Why, thar's nothin' to see but the
Atlantic an' a piece o' foreland to the northwest! But her fancy is, the sea's a-bringin' her
somethin'--that's what she used to say as a kid--somethin', she don't rightly know what. I
say it's just furren countries--pieces she's got outer story books, an' yarns she's heard the
fishermen tell--that's what's she's hankerin' for, Mr. McFarlane. So ye see, as I say, we're
all 'baout the same, that way."

"When I first seen her," began the Man tentatively, "I could ha' sworn that--See here, now!
Ain't thar still the leavin's of a redskin outfit up this way?"

"Why, yes," returned the other, with some compunction. "I don't talk much 'baout it--not that
it's a thing to he ashamed of; but I wouldn't give the gal a handle to think herself different
from any one else hereabout. The truth is, her mother's mother was pretty near to a full-blooded
Ojibway--not the kind you've seen plaitin' baskets for summer boarders, but a clean, straight-backed
red woman, an' she claimed descent from one o' their big chiefs. I'm English stock myself,
but the wild breed mixes slow: it's in her blood, Mr. McFarlane, and sometimes it worrits me.
Thar's days she won't speak nor eat, but just goes off to the woods an' makes little trinkets
out o' pine needles an' bark, and then I know the fit's on her. And proud! Thar's not a man
hereabout she'd lift an eye at, and one feller that wouldn't take "no" got his head split open
with an oar. Sometimes I've thought that ef she was married to a strong man--strong AND kind,
d'ye see?--'twould be the best thing for her."

At this the stranger, who had missed no word, leaned quickly forward, the firelight striking
his firm face. With the poise of conscious power he said quite simply:

"I'm the man!"

They eyed each other a moment, Crane measuring the Man who had come, the Man inviting measurement.

"You mean--?" asked the father. He paused as if welcoming interruption, but it was not in this
man's slow, sure nature to interrupt. "Tell us what you do mean!"

"I mean," repeated the other slowly, "that I'M THE MAN! I love that little gal, I want to marry
her. O' course you objeck: that's natural, that's right. I like your objectin', an' I'm going
to fight it to a show-down. First you'll say, `You're verruckt--crazy.' See hyar now! I've
lived life, I have, and I've seen a drove o' women, hither an' yon, but not one of 'em could
hold me, no more'n an ordinary slipknot could hold stuff on a packsaddle. I'm no lightweight,
an' I need the diamond hitch. But to-day, when I seen Little Peachey in the scrub over yonder,
why, it was different, and I knowed it right quick. Ever broke a horse, have you? Well, before
you've got your lassoo coiled, the critter's eyes'll tell you just what sort o' tea-party you're
goin' to have. Thar was a man once--a hoss wrangler--an' the easier a hoss broke, the more
he'd mouch around an' hang his head, real melancholy and sad-eyed. The only minutes o' slap-bang-up
joy that came his way was when he corralled a bucker whose natural ability to roll on him an'
kick his brains out left no percentage o' chance in the player's favor. Maybe that's what I
seen in Little Peachey to-day. Just now you said the wild breed mixes slow. It does: for it
sticks out, waitin' for its own kind. And by that same token, blood talks to blood--aye, even
without no Indian sign-language. Maybe all these years Little Peachey, settin' out on them
rocks, has been a-watchin' for more than foreign countries."

"Aye, mebbe that's all right." Crane paced the floor, and his voice rose savagely: "Don't know
but what your palaver mightn't win plenty o' foolish gals. But who are ye? What's your trade?
Whar's your folks? Thar's lots o' rogues afoot. Do you allow I'd let the first stranger in
Ragged Woods talk marriage to my daughter? What have you said? What's between you? Out with
it, or I'll have you in Rockledge Jail by to-morrow morning!"

The Man who had come nodded response with imperturbable gravity.

"I like your talk," he said. "It comes straight off the hip, an' it calls for a straight answer.
What have I spoke to her? Nothin'! What's between us? Nothin' but the makin's! Next, touchin'
myself: Since sixteen I've been kickin' up the dust o' the earth till my home is anywhar immediately
convenient. Once I had a brother in New Orleans, another in the Northwest, and another who
drank himself accidentally into the British army an' died in the Sudan. We were wanderers,
the lot of us. I'm Scotch-Irish, and my old mother used to claim we harked back to the kings
o' some outfit I've forgotten. But blood-facts is no more proof than specimens from an unprospected
claim. Friends? I make 'em everywhar: any one on the top o' the earth who's got the makin's
of a man kin call me friend. Yet right here an' now I wouldn't touch the twelve apostles for
an assay on my character. 'Cause why? 'Cause I hold that, just like a man lays in his own little
square o' earth, so a man stands alone on his own little piece o' reputation. Good or bad,
friends or no friends, it's his'n; and the Almighty files a pretty good chart of it right on
his face. I want you to size me up accordingly."

Again the father gazed deeply at the Man who had come, and again the Man gave him the full
of his eyes. Crane's glance shifted suspiciously from the other's face to the decanter and
back again; the Man immediately responded by lifting his glass.

"Fill that up three times raw," he said, "and I'll swaller it in three breaths, just to show
you what a drink IS. No, sir, it's hot your picayune drop o' spirits that's talkin'--it's me.
Acabado! Finished!" And, tossing the contents of his glass into the fire, he replaced it upside
down on the table.

"Yes," said Crane wonderingly, "you're sober--and you're honest. You certainly are honest!"
He paused as if to steel himself. "But what o' that? Why should you come between me and my
child in one night, after these twenty years we've spent--we've spent--" Simultaneously his
words failed and his shoulders drooped. "See here, now: Stay along and work for me awhile.
I'll give you half shares in the boat. But just wait, wait awhile. Some day you'll speak to
her about it, and then--then mebbe I'll see it different."

But the Man rose restively.

"It comes hard on you," he mused, "aye, mighty hard; but it ain't all my doin', Mr. Crane,
nor yet Little Peachey's. It's something bigger'n the lot of us: it's nature. You might as
well put your back up against a landslide. As to stayin' on here, 'tain't in me: I must hit
the trail to-morrow morning. But to-night thar's somethin' in here"---and he struck his breast--"that
won't keep: it's got to be said. I've spoken my little piece, an' you say you size me for a
man. Bien! Bein' a man, I take no favors. No sir, I ain't no empty-handed brave. Little Peachey
bein' the squaw for me, an' I havin' told you so, an' smoked your tobacco an' drunk your whisky,
I hereby deliver."

He drew out a roll of bills and tossed them upon the table, observing whimsically:

"Two hundred an' thirty-odd dollars, honestly come by, an' all the estate, real or otherwise,
whereof I stand possessed. Money talks. Take it; it's yours. An' now I'm goin' to find Little
Peachey."

He strode out into the night and toward the forelands, his ears guided by the monotonous crash
and moan of the long Atlantic swell.

Standing on the cliff was a wind-fluttered figure that turned at the sound of his step, with
eyes defiantly alert.

"You knew I'd come," he said simply, drawing close to her. "Peachey, little Peachey, what's
them waves a-sayin' to the rocks? It's: `ME! YOU! ME! YOU!' Ain't they always been a-sayin'
it? Kin you stop 'em, little Peachey? And that's the words I'm a-standin' here now fer to say
to you."

"I ain't a-goin' to listen," she cried sharply, drawing back. "I don't want none o' your words.
You just leave me alone, now, Mister--Mister----"

"Why, names don't count between us, chiquita," said he, with his great-hearted smile. "I'm
just a man, I am, an' you're just a woman; and rightly I don't know no name for the thing that's
been a-callin' between us ever since I seen you in the woods. But I kin see it in your face,
Peachey, an' you kin see it in mine; it's a-lookin' at me through them eyes o' yourn----"

"Don't you look at me!" she cried, flinging an arm across her face. "I hate you, you--Man.
Don't you come near me, naow! I hate you, I could kill you!"

But he only smiled down upon her kindly, understandingly.

"That's what the father said--aye, or somethin' mighty like it; but I told him, I wrastled
with him till he savvied. And--makin' no secrets between us, Peachey--I paid him two hundred
dollars down, to call it quits. Why, what's a few dollars? They don't cut no figure between
you and me, 'cause I love you, little Peachey, an' I know right down in your heart you love
me, too."

His voice quivered deeply as he drew near and laid his hands on her shoulders.

Instantly she raised her face, and their glances met in one quick flare. He felt her shiver
in his grasp like some panic-stricken animal, then she turned and fled from him.

He followed, calling after her to stop; yet the lust of the chase swelled within him, and he
knew he but loved this woman the more that she was not lying tamed within his arm. Breasting
the house, he saw that she had swerved toward the island's long, leeward neck, from whence
there was thrown a narrow pile-bridge connecting it with the mainland. His feet rang on the
planks as she gained the opposite shore; and his heart laughed with joy, for he divined the
instinct that had called her, not to her father's side, but to the mysterious heart of the woods.

Now he felt beneath him the soft pad of pine needles, little twigs switched his face, and warm,
odorous airs breathed their welcome. Through the dimness he saw her gain the crest of a ridge,
running lightly with long strides, and, as he reached the spot, from the hollow beneath there
rang her voice flung back in mocking laughter. By the trail's wide curve and the shelving land
he perceived that they were skirting the edge of inland waters; more than this he knew nothing
save that, through vista after vista, mile by mile, her flying feet beckoned him onward, and
that her heart was singing to his the last wild defiance of the almost-won.

At a sharp turn he came suddenly upon a cleared space shoring along the water's edge, lit by
a blazing camp-fire. Within the circle of the glow she stood, a spent, panting figure, half
supported by two men. A hunting-dog dashed forward, menacing the oncomer with stiffened back
and bared teeth. The man strode into the group and said with quiet courtesy:

"Good evening, gentlemen. I am glad you rounded her up, for both consarned. Peachey, my hat's
off to you an' all your tribe: you'd have run till you dropped. I see, gentlemen, that you're
sizin' me up, which is natural an' gratifyin'. But things is square an' satisfactory between
me and her, I do assure you."

The younger of the two--a tall, keen-faced man of city-bred appearance--turned to the girl
and said with irritation:

"I don't understand. What does he mean? Are you his wife?"

She was leaning against a tree, her face averted. "No!" she panted vehemently. "No, no!"

"Tell yer it's Crane's gal," insisted the second man. "They live over yonder on the island.
I pointed it aout a-comin' through the woods, the day you landed up here, Mr. Hemsley."

"Have you any claim on this girl?" demanded Hemsley, wheeling upon the stranger.

"Touchin' claims," returned the other, with sure emphasis, "I am not for filin' mine with the
first party immediately convenient. The claim is filed O. K. elsewhere, and at present, as
you're prospectin' on the hither side o' my line, I'll put one straight question to you: Did,
or did not, Little Peachey ask you for protection?"

"Why, no," retorted Hemsley, a trifle confused, "she didn't--not in so many words." He turned
to the girl. "Who is this man? Tell me everything; you needn't be afraid, Miss Crane."

"I'm not afraid!" she flashed sullenly. "He was a-layin' in Ragged Woods this afternoon, an'
he carried my berry basket home an' stayed to supper. And afterward he caught hold o' me, he
did, an' tried to kiss me; an' I ran away 'cause--'cause I hate him. I hate him!"

Her shrill cry ended in a passionate gesture. Wheeling, she marched down the slope to the water's
edge, where she stood looking out into the night. All at once the man threw his face up to
the sky and burst into a great roar of laughter.

"Right you are, Little Peachey!" he called. "Thar ain't no more to be said than that--just
you an' me in the Ragged Woods at sundown. An' now--Blessed if we ain't downright stampeded!
It's a reg'lar round-up, Peachey!" And he laughed again uncontrollably.

"Well," said Hemsley at length, "I don't like the looks of things, and I'm going to make it
my business to take Miss Crane home to her father. I advise you not to make any trouble until
you've proved who you are. Rockledge County Jail is only six miles away."

The other sobered to a statue, then turned, regarding Hemsley with mild fixity.

"Gentlemen," he said, "gentlemen both. I ain't askin' for your help, and, as far as I can see,
neither is Peachey. I mean it. Gentlemen, a mule is a most onsafe critter. Even when you go
to his funeral, you'll do well to sit at the head of the coffin."

Then all three turned quickly, for there had arisen from below the sound of a grating keel.

"That settles it," said Hemsley with dry satisfaction. "Miss Crane has gone home in the canoe.
So much the better: I'm not looking for trouble." And he turned away.

But the Man gave one great laugh, then he was off like a shot, down the slope and into the
water. At shoulder-depth he overtook the canoe and clung to its stern.

"Go up forward, Little Peachey," he cried, "an' sit mighty still till I swing in, else we'll
be swimmin' in another minute. There!"

And drawing himself up over the stern, he seized the paddle, while the canoe leaped forward
beneath his powerful strokes. From somewhere along the shore came the sound of voices, but
the camp-fire blazed deserted. Gradually its light diminished to a twinkling spark in the blackness.
For a while no word was spoken, the man bending to his task, the girl crouching with averted
face in the extreme bow. Then a little new moon peered over the distant pine tops, the heavens
spread their starry veil, and the hour of Susanna Crane's wooing had come.

"Me! You!" intoned the Man, to the sweep of his paddle. "Me! You! That's what the waves were
sayin', that's what you kep' a-callin' to me through the woods, that's what the stars are writin'
on the sky--Me! You! Big Chief, oh, you heap Big Chief, somewhar up yonder, ain't you l'arned
me some things this day? Peachey, me and another man, down in the marble quarries, got fightin'
in liquor, an' he drew a gun on me, an' I killed him with it. Then I got away quick and careless-like;
but the Big Chief he leads me up here an' sets me in the woods, an' sends you along the trail.
An' while I'm lyin' thar asleep, He tells me in a dream, `You proud man! You unbroke bucker!
Maybe you kin kill a man, but I've got my own good way o' tamin' you and bringin' you home.'
Blood for blood I thought He meant, but I wakes up and--Que gracia!--thar you stands. And your
face it says to me, `Come on, you wicked, red-handed man. God's a-callin'.' And I says to myself
real sudden, like I was at a camp meetin', `Praise God!' Then, when we ran into the camp, just
now, who was thar but Hemsley, the county sheriff, whose deputies have been after me for a
week! Maybe the Big Chief's savin' me to l'arn me something more. So again I says, `Praise God!'

"Will you travel with me, camarada?" he went on. "The whole big world's waitin' for us. I kin
read an' write, an' my arms are strong. We'll ride the plains an' climb the hills an' swim
in the rivers, and when you're tired I'll carry you on my shoulder. Then we'll take in the
big, flat cities, Little Peachey, an' walk around 'em at night, lookin' on friendly. Yes, we'll
drop in at all of 'em, stringin' out across the country like sideshows on the old Chicago Midway.
And one o' these days, when we're gittin' real old, we'll pull up stakes an' start off to locate
our last campin' ground. Thar ain't no maps nor surveys to it; it's just somewhar over yonder,
and we'll know it on sight, Little Peachey. Maybe it's some picayune island chucked into the
middle o' the ocean, with one high rock whar we can sit and watch the sun a-risin' an' the
sun a-settin', an' the seagulls flyin'. And we'll talk over old times, Little Peachey, an'
we'll just sit an' watch an' wait thar together till--till thar ain't nothin' left at all,
only the rocks an' the sky an' the gulls a-screamin' at the sea.

"Peachey, a man read me some pieces out o' a book once, and I wrote 'em down an' learned 'em.

" `For springtime is here,' it says, `thou soul unloosened--the restlessness after I know not
what. Oh, if we could but fly like a bird! Oh, to escape, to sail forth as on a ship!' Camarada,
give me your hand. I will give you myself, more precious than money. Will you give me yourself?
Will you travel with me? Shall we stick by each other as long as we live?"

The chant of his voice died away upon the night, and there was no sound but the soft ripple
of the water under keel. In the bow sat the girl, motionless as a crouched Indian, her face
fixed upon the nearing shore.

As the water shoaled, the Man stroked powerfully, landing the canoe sternforemost; then he
stepped forth, drew it along the bank, and said:

"Camarada, give me your hand!"

But already the girl had risen, steadying herself with the bow paddle. With a sinuous movement
she eluded his arms, and fled; then voices woke amid the pines, and the Man strode forward,
to find his way blocked by two men holding the sobbing girl between them.

"I've seen enough of this," said Hemsley, facing him, "to know what you are. Miss Crane, can
you find your way home alone? Jim, you and I will walk this man over to Rockledge."

"Peachey!" called the Man, retreating instantly. "Come on over here; thar's goin' to be trouble.
Git behind me, Little Peachey!"

In the landing place there was driven a heavy stake. He drew this forth, then advanced, saying
earnestly:

"Gentlemen both, you size me up wrong. Now, I ain't lookin' for trouble, but don't you bank
too strong on takin' me anywhar with you to-night."

Hemsley's right hand drew backward, then came the level glitter of a long revolver barrel.
"Drop that!" he began.

But suddenly something flashed before his face, and the keen edge of a boat-paddle bit numbingly
into his extended hand; then the girl darted forward to where the revolver lay glistening among
the pine needles.

"Well struck, Little Peachey," cried the Man; and he stepped protectingly in front of her,
with upraised stake. But she stood from behind him and leveled the revolver full at Hemsley.

"I don't want your help," she said. The words came torn from her in sobbing whispers. "Git!
Don't you come back no more. Don't you send no one lookin' for this man. I kin take care o'
myself, I guess."

And the look in her eyes warned them to go. Now the Man and the Woman were alone in the black
hush of the pine woods.

"I saved you," she said at length; "now go away from here. Yes, go!" And as her face lifted
defiantly to his, her voice slid upward like the lonely, untamed wail of some wild creature.
"Go back from whar you come! Don't you never let me see your face again, nor hear you speak;
don't you never touch me no more, you Man! 'Cause I'm scairt o' you, I am; 'cause you're big
an' strong, an' you'd forgit a gal like me. 'Cause I hate you, an' I hate myself!"

For an instant the man gazed at her, perplexed, irresolute; then he took her right hand and
guided it until the revolver muzzle touched his forehead.

"Peachey," he whispered tenderly, "you hate me--but could you kill me; Little Peachey?" And
he smiled his great, full-hearted smile.

Then her hand fell, her head sunk upon his breast, and a strong shuddering filled all her young
body.

"Oh, Man, Man!" she breathed, as his arms closed about her.

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.1 JULY   
1910 {pages 74-83}

By Alice MacGowan and Grace MacGowan Cooke

Authors of "Return, A Story of the Sea Islands," etc. 

"Is Ellen worse to-day?" The opening and closing of the front door brought in a swirl of red
and yellow leaves from the porch outside. There came, too, a breath of sharp, sweet October
air to tired little Mrs. Kendrick where she paused, foot on stair, the tray steadied in her
hand, looking back at her husband.

"No. It's just that I got Mary Louise Jackson to come over and play with her. I can't ask Aunt
Dicey to wait on a negro child like Ma'Lou is, and she's got to eat with Ellen; so I'm----"

"So you're waiting on her yourself," supplied Kendrick, hanging up a shabby overcoat on the
hall rack.

"I'd do more than that to keep her here," his wife returned almost fiercely. "I tell you nobody
knows till they've tried it what it is to have a child like Ellen, always lonesome and pining
for company, and quarreling with every girl that comes about her. Sometimes I think it would
be better if we moved away from Watauga. Everybody pities her--they all notice that she's backward
in her studies--how can she help it, poor dear, with that hip joint the way it is?"

Kendrick came closer; he laid a kind arm along the frail, bent shoulders of his wife, and her
senses were aware of the fresh outdoor air as he put his cool cheek to hers. "Don't you grieve,
Fanny," he said. "Ma'Lou's a good companion for Ellen. The kid's better trained and better
educated than half the white girls of her age in Watauga. If things go well, in a year or two
we'll send Nellie to Baltimore and see what the big man there can do for her. You shall have
a daughter that can dance like you used to, honey," and he patted her shoulder gently.

She turned with a little, gasping sigh to put up her tired face for his kiss. "You're good,
Scott," she murmured, then went more cheerfully upstairs and to Ellen's room, glancing as she
entered at the two girls, who were playing happily with paper dolls.

"Here's your feast," she called to them in the gay tone we use with sick children. "Come, Ellen.
I'll go down and give your father his dinner, and you two can play any kind of party you want
to with this." 

The little girl with skin like white cotton cloth rolled her big, gray eves toward the tray
and asked listlessly, "What you got for dinner, ma?" The brown-skinned one, tidily dressed
from her carefully combed head with its crisp, black mass that was scarcely hair, held in place
by spick-and-span hair ribbons, to the toes of her stout, handsome shoes, got up quickly and
came forward to arrange the meal.

"They's molasses pie, Nell," Ma'Lou said joyously. "Oh, I'm going to bring it over there and
fix it by the side of the lounge. We'll play you' a sick lady, and I'm you' trained nurse.
Just wait till I fix my handkerchief into a cap like they wear."

Mrs. Kendrick turned away and left the children at their play. Mary Louise Jackson had been
kept at home from school that she might come over and spend the day with Ellen. For when Ellen
Kendrick was ill, her cry always was, "Oh, send for the doctor--and Mary Louise."

The old Kendrick place sat back in its grassy yard and concealed behind voluminous chinaberry
trees such shabbiness as time had brought it; but on the corner, the home of Ezra Jackson perched
proudly above its stone wall and added a considerable touch of elegance to the street.

It was in the early eighties, and the Queen Anne style of architecture was just coming into
great popularity in the South. Jackson, who could well afford it, had let an architect have
full sway in producing for him a dwelling in the new mode. Ezra Jackson, a full-blooded negro
born a slave, had been a teamster on his master's Georgia plantation, and after the war that
master, who still maintained friendly relations with his ex-slaves, gave him a start in life
with a mule and a dray. From this the honest, industrious, and enterprising man had built up
a transfer business which was the best of its sort in town. There were many teams and drivers
now, and Ezra could walk in the garb of other men of means about him; yet he still wrote his
name in the manner of the kings of old--he produced it as a sort of landscape effect without
any idea of what the separate characters meant. He was a good citizen, a dignified man; and,
except for his black skin, he would have been an acceptable neighbor to the Kendricks, and
a desirable resident in their quarter of town. The young wife whom he had married rather late
in life, and to whose taste the Queen Anne house catered, had a good grammar-school education,
gained from those first devoted teachers that the Freedman's Bureau sent to the Southern negroes
in the years immediately following the war. At first she had kept his books and made out his
bills; and she always insisted on the best of schooling for their children.

Of these latter, only Mary Louise concerns this history, since she chanced to be very near
the age of Ellen Kendrick and had become a necessity in the life of that peevish little invalid.
The negro girl had smooth features, and her mother saw to it that she was always spotlessly
dressed and that her manners were perfect. The children of her race take to good manners very
readily, being usually amiable and eager for approbation. Mrs. Jackson undoubtedly took pride
in the connection with her aristocratic white neighbors, and Mrs. Kendrick was forced to be
glad of the chance to have the Jackson child come over and play with Ellen. A nurse she could
have hired, but a child near the afflicted girl's age, a sound-natured, sweet-tempered, well-bred
little girl, was not to be had for money--love was the only coin current that could pay for that.

And the two girls loved each other--of course they did. Did not Ellen need Ma'Lou and is not
service the basis of all love? The flame on the altar of their affection burned always clear
and strong, unshaken by the peevish gusts that extinguished many a less sturdy light of friendship
for the Kendrick girl. So that existence to Ellen--the pleasant part of it, anyhow--meant a
great deal of Ma'Lou, and there was scarcely an object in her room, a game or a pursuit of
her days, that was not associated with the brown girl. The pair grew up in a companionship
closer than that of some born sisters.

The mere fact of this intimacy was not regarded by the Kendricks with any disfavor whatever.
Scott and Fanny both had played with negro children, both had been reared by negro mammies.
Neither realized that conditions were changed, that the negroes with whom they had associated
were no longer an enslaved people, hopeless of any equality, nor that, with the coming of freedom,
and still more with the growing ferment among the blacks, such association was different from
the intimacy of slavery days.

And Ezra Jackson's wife watched jealously that the preponderance of gifts and favors should
be always on her child's side. If any present were given Mary Louise in the Kendrick house,
her mother always retorted instantly, as one might say, with something better or handsomer.
Mrs. Kendrick was a slow woman, and such a point would naturally have been obscure to her;
yet she finally came to be aware of the fact, and at last it vexed her a little. She turned
the question in her mind and sought for some substantial favor or patronage which she might
offer to the Jacksons, to quiet once for all her offended sense of fitness.

It fell out that about this time she was passing their home on her way to her own, loaded down
with bundles from the market because her cook, Aunt Dicey, was old and feeble and there had
been nobody else to go this morning, when she raised her eyes and saw the Jackson back yard
full of snowy wash on the line. Mrs. Jackson stood in the kitchen door, and, at the juxtaposition
of the dark skin and the well-washed clothes, an idea promptly occurred to the lawyer's wife.

"Good morning," she called in a friendly tone. "I wanted to ask you something; I guess I'll
come through the gate and go out your front way, if you don't mind."

Ezra Jackson's wife ran down the steps and put out a hand to help the tired woman with her
packages. Mrs. Kendrick rested them on the railing of the back porch.

"Your clothes look lovely," she said meditatively. "You get them out so early. Aunt Dicey's
too old to do the washing and cooking both any longer. I've been thinking for some time that
I would really have to get me a washerwoman."

"It is hard to have the person who cooks wash also," said Mrs. Jackson, choosing her words
carefully, and speaking in that serious tone which the new generation of colored people are
apt to use toward their white neighbors. It is always as though they were on guard, or perhaps
on parade is the better word, determined not to be guilty of lapses which would be excusable
in those whom they address, but which are not permitted to the inferior race.

Fanny Kendrick looked at the handsome, well-kept house and its dignified, serious-faced mistress,
and a feeling of irritation rose within her.

"I thought maybe you--I want a washerwoman--and seeing your clothes looked so nice made me
think that maybe you----"

She came to an uncertain halt, and glanced again half impatiently at the other woman. After
all, Ezra Jackson's wife was just a negro, and there was no use in feeling embarrassed or in
supposing you didn't know how to deal with negroes. Good gracious! what was the world coming
to if you couldn't offer work to folks without blushing? But she did not complete her sentence.
The Jackson woman waited for a while that she might do so, and finally said, still in that
slow, correct utterance which was in itself an offense:

"You thought I might tell you of some one? Mrs. Payson does mine. As you say she does it very
nicely, and is quick about it. Her prices are high. I pay her half a dollar, and she gets done,
as you see, a good deal before noon. But the work is satisfactory, and I think it pays better.
I don't know whether she has a free day--but--shall I send her to you when she comes next week?"

Mrs. Kendrick blushed burning red, and took up her bundles with a jerk.

"No, thank you," she said shortly. "I couldn't any more afford that than I could fly. I didn't
know Sally Payson had got to charging like that--fifty cents for less than half a day's work!
I declare, prices are enough to ruin a body these days."

She went on to her own home smarting. She had called the washer woman "Sally Payson," to be
sure, in correction of Eliza Jackson's "Mrs. Payson," which was a minor victory, yet it was
not enough to wipe away a feeling of stinging exasperation and a curious sense of defeat. And
when she told her husband about it afterward, he received her recital with a sort of humorous
impatience.

"Good Lord, Fan," he broke in finally, "don't you know that every woman with a black skin isn't
hungry to do your washing? It's not a question of complexion; it's money that talks. Ezra Jackson
could buy me out two or three times over. I'm trying to act all his legal business. He's bringing
a big suit against the railroad. If he gives it to me I shall be able to send Ellen to Baltimore
this year instead of next."

"Well," said Mrs. Kendrick, submissively but acidly, "if you want me to go and apologize, I
suppose I can. The South is getting to be a queer place when white gentlemen have to be under
obligation to negro teamsters. I certainly don't want to interfere with your business in any
way, Scott," she concluded plaintively. "We're hard up all the time; I feel it deeply that
poor Ellen is such an expense to you."

Scott Kendrick's ready arm went round the weary little woman. "An apology would be worse than
the offense, Fanny," he admonished gently. "It's just this. the Jacksons are in an absolutely
new position, and have to be treated in a new way. You wouldn't go and ask Mrs. Ford or Mrs.
Brashear to do your washing; and the Lord knows that neither Jim Brashear nor Bate Ford makes
half what Ezra Jackson does. The world is changing, honey, and we have to change with it."

II

As they grew older, the association of the two girls, in spite of the affection between them--perhaps
because of it--began to present almost daily problems and embarrassments. Ellen's health was
worse, her nerves were shattered, and she clung with more and more insistence to this one healthy
companion, who responded with a tireless devotion. Coming in from her wholesome outdoor life
and her triumphs at school--where she always stood high--Ma'Lou brought to the sick room a
very wind of comfort and cheer, which Mrs. Kendrick had not the heart to deny her pining young
invalid. Once, when she spoke apprehensively of the matter to her husband, Scott Kendrick answered
with astonishment:

"Why, Fanny, it's only a question of health--a little bodily improvement. We'd break it off
to-morrow if Ellen was well. You'll see; there would never be any more of it if I could send
her away for that operation."

But the white people had not, as they supposed, this anxiety all to themselves. The timid,
conservative, colored mother regarded the friendship with growing anxiety. And before Scott
Kendrick got together the money to send Ellen to Baltimore, Ezra Jackson's wife had coaxed
her husband into letting Mary Louise go North to school. The Watauga public schools, with a
term or two of Fiske, at Nashville, afterward, had been good enough for the other children.
But the mother craved wider opportunities for this, her youngest; money was freer with them
now; and Mary Louise went to a preparatory school, then to Oberlin.

Ellen Kendrick returned from the hands of the surgeons in Baltimore much improved in health.
She was sent back twice afterward for treatment. Finally she walked as well as other girls,
and hastily made up her arrears of education, as best she might, at a private school in Watauga.
She would always be frail; the invalid habit had gotten into both mind and body; she would
continue dependent, demanding; and somewhat irritable; yet there was a fragile prettiness about
her, and her very childishness had its own charm.

Mary Louise Jackson passed one of two vacations at home; but, as time went on, there were opportunities
for her to have trips of an educational nature, and one summer was spent at a Chautauqua taking
a special course, so that after the first break in their association the two girls saw almost
nothing of each other till they were women grown. There had been some letters; yet what the
white girl had always demanded and received from her friend could not come through the mails,
and the neglected correspondence finally died a natural death.

There was one person in Watauga, however, to whom Mary Louise wrote, and from whom she received
letters regularly--Ulysses Grant Payson, the washerwoman's son, with whom she had gone to school.
Grant Payson was a sober, ambitious, industrious fellow, who seemed to feel from childhood
the weight of responsibility for his people. A widow's only boy, he had worked hard and studied
hard. With a very fair mental endowment, he was able to get what the Watauga public schools
could give him, secure a few years training at Nashville, then read law.

And, when, after her graduation, Mary Louise returned to her father's home, a very well-educated
young lady indeed, wearing glasses and looking older than her years, she found Grant established
in a good practice, and with some other prospects that were, for a colored man, flattering.
Both families knew that Grant wanted Ma'Lou. Whether the girl would marry him and settle down
in Watauga had been a matter of anxiety, often talked over between the two mothers. For they
also knew of and discussed Ma'Lou's opportunity to take a position as private secretary to
one of the instructors in her college. They understood that it was a situation which would
pay fairly well, and give her associates who gained an added glory in the minds of these humble
folk by their distance. In short, it would be a foothold in the white people's world; and Grant
Payson's mother trembled for her son, while the mother of Mary Jackson feared to lose, once
for all, her daughter. The two Southern-bred black women could see in such things as the girl
reported only the wiping out of all race barrier, the sudden achievement of equality. Had Mary
Louise been asked, no doubt she could have told them of a social ban at the North quite as
definite as that in Watauga, if different; but her father's daughter kept a silence that was
not without dignity over what she found irremediable, in the North as in the South.

To warm-hearted Mary Louise, Watauga meant, of course, father and mother; but directly after
them--perhaps before them, in the calendar of youth--it meant Ellen Kendrick and Grant Payson.
And the colored elders, looking on, felt that as these twin idols of the girl turned out, so
rose or fell the chances of keeping her with them in Watauga.

Grant instituted at once a courtship as ardent and eager as it was open and avowed. His people,
florid and colorful in temperament, are natural wooers, free of the language of affection and
adroit in its use. Grant was very much in love with the girl, and she meant even more to him
than that, since in aspiring to her his ambition stepped hand in hand with his affections.

Mary Louise received his advances with curious reservations, as though there were positions
and premises she defended against him.

It was when the girl's visit was three weeks old that the fine-looking, broad-shouldered, young
colored man in his well-fitting business suit--a goodly figure in the eyes of the mother watching
from her own room across the hall--left the parlor where he and Mary Louise had been sitting
all evening, with so doleful a countenance that the older woman had a quickly suppressed impulse
to go to him and speak. She did open the subject to the girl next morning, approaching it obliquely.
In her own day a very progressive person, she felt that her daughter had far outstripped her,
and she offered advice but timidly to this tall, perfectly dressed young woman who seemed so
competent in all the affairs of life, and who knew so much more than she did upon many subjects.
But after a little profitless skirmishing she came out with:

"Looks like you must have said something hard to Grant last night--he never came in to say
good-by to me. Ain't you going to have him, Ma'Lou? Don't you care anything about him?"

"I care a great deal about Grant," Mary Louise told her, in a voice of pain. "I could love
him dearly--if I'd let myself. But, mother, I just can't settle down to live here in Watauga.
There's nobody and nothing here for me."

The woman looked at her child, and her mind misgave her sorely that she had done wrong to send
the girl away among an alien people, where she would learn to despise her own.

"You're still grievin' about Ellen Kendrick," she said finally. "If I were you I wouldn't let
that go the way it has. Don't--" she hesitated, with eyes full of helpless solicitude upon
her daughter's face--"honey, don't wait for any sign from Ellen, because you won't get it.
You just take those postal cards that you got for her on your Canadian trip, and some morning
you step over to the side door and ask for her, if you want to see her. I know she thinks a
great deal of you. She's stopped me on the street more than once and asked all about you and
what you were doing. I don't see why you shouldn't go to the side door and go in and have a
nice little visit with her."

Mary Louise considered this suggestion at some length. She had the wider outlook which some
travel gives, and, in Oberlin, she had been where the race question was relatively negligible.
Her mother's way of putting it jarred on her; yet the hungry craving she felt at this time
for a touch of companionship with a girl of her own age, her longing for the beloved Ellen
of her childhood, overbore all shrinking. That afternoon she brought the cards down in her
hand, and, full of an unwelcome timidity, made her way to the side door of the Kendrick house
and rapped. Mrs. Kendrick answered and received her with a certain thin cordiality that suggested
reservations. The fact was that Ellen was having a little party that evening, and the colored
girl would perhaps be in the way. Among the guests bidden were two young men, upon either one
of whom Mrs. Kendrick looked with a hopeful maternal eye, and nothing could be less desirable
than for her daughter to seem to "even herself with negroes" in the eyes of these possible suitors.

"Shall I stop and see Ellen a minute, or may I just leave these with you, Mrs. Kendrick?" asked
the tall, brown-skinned young woman finally.

"Oh, come in--come right in here to the dining room and sit down," said the mistress of the
house, remembering with a twinge how much she owed to this girl. "Ellen will be crazy about
these. She's got a postal card album, and she hasn't anything in it from Canada. Ellen! Come
downstairs, honey; Ma'Lou Jackson has brought you something pretty."

But even as she called up the stairway, and heard the quick response from above, it crossed
Mrs. Kendrick's mind that her daughter would not be willing to put these postal cards in her
album, for she would be ashamed to tell from whom they came.

She was annoyed when Ellen came flying down the stairs, her thin, blond hair all about her
shoulders, and caught both the newcomer's hands--the mother feared for a moment that she would
kiss her old playmate.

"And then if somebody saw it through the window, and went and told young Emery Ford or Mr.
Hyatt, I don't know what on earth I should do," reflected the careworn matron.

"Mamma, do come and look at these lovely postals," Ellen cried effusively a little later, as
her mother, plainly ill at ease, passed through the room. "I'm going to pull out those that
Cousin Rob sent me from Texas, and put these in right after the California ones. See here,
mamma; isn't this one beautiful? Ma'Lou was there a week. She's put a little cross over the
hotel where they stayed."

Mrs. Kendrick looked at the strong, well-developed figure of her guest, and a certain dull
anger arose in her mind. Why did health and money both go to this inferior creature, when they
were lacking in higher quarters? Perhaps this prompted her query; "That hotel? It's a big one,
isn't it? Did they--could you----?"

She broke off, and Mary Louise supplied, innocently enough: "Oh, they didn't let us travel
during school term. This was a vacation trip."

She had been long away from the South; in the protective conditions of Oberlin she had been
measurably free from the wounding of race prejudice; and now she failed to realize that Mrs.
Kendrick's curiosity was as to whether she had been permitted to go to a hotel with white people.

Old Dicey's place in the kitchen had long been supplied by a negress of the newer generation--"the
worst gossip and tattler in town," if you might take her mistress's word for it. Mrs. Kendrick
now made her way thither, ostensibly to superintend the preparation of the evening's refreshments,
but in reality to try to fix up an explanation of why Ezra Jackson's daughter sat visiting
in the dining room with the young lady of the house. "Because if Penny goes out and tells her
friends, every darky in town'll be retailing the story to the folks that hire them, and it'll
soon be all over the place."

She came back into the dining room to find Ellen glowing with enthusiasm. Yes, her mind was
still that of a sick child; she had dropped back into her old-time attitude toward Mary Louise.

"Mamma, Ma'Lou says that they used to give lunches at the college, and fix the floral centerpiece
so it would all come apart, and each guest could draw a bunch of it with a ribbon. Oh, I don't
understand very well, but she can tell you--it's just beautiful, and we could make it out of
the chrysanthemums in the side yard, she says."

Mrs. Kendrick looked uneasy. But there was no window in the dining room which commanded the
street except the side light of the bay, and at it Ellen herself sat. Nobody passing would
be apt to see Mary Louise over in the room.

"I reckon we can't go into those things," she objected, a little irritably. "I suppose Ma'Lou
has seen a heap of fine doings up North that we couldn't possibly attempt."

"But she's promised to make me a lot of cute little candies--like potatoes, and put them in
paper baskets--to go at each plate," put in Ellen, jealously.

The brown-faced girl nodded and laughed, with a quick flash of white teeth. It was plain she
was taking the attitude of an older person talking to a child about a juvenile party to which
there could be no question of invitation, and Mrs. Kendrick's fears rather subsided. She was
safe, if only Ellen would show some sense and judgment.

"Well, I must go on home, now, if I'm to make those candies and have them ready by this evening,"
said Ezra Jackson's daughter, getting to her feet. "They take a good while to harden properly."

Ellen went with her to the side door, clinging to her arm and insisting on some last remark.
Mrs. Kendrick, in an agony of apprehension, hovered in the background.

"Oh, well," said the daughter of the house finally, "I won't bother you any more about it now,
Ma'Lou. It's hard for you to explain just how to fix it, but you can show me when you come
over this evening. I'll have the chrysanthemums ready. You come a little early--won't you, please?"

Mary Louise, in the doorway, glanced from mother to daughter in some confusion. Would this
do? Her own mother had cautioned her to be certain to go to the side door.

"I--I don't know," she hesitated doubtfully. "I'll bring the candies over, if you like, and
I might be able to show you a little about the table then." And again she looked from the face
of the girl who had been her childhood's most intimate friend and associate to that of the
woman who had accepted so much at her childish hands.

"Why, I supposed you'd be here when I was giving the party, Ma'Lou," argued Ellen petulantly.
"I don't see why not! Isn't it all right, mother?" she appealed sharply. "Shouldn't Ma'Lou
come over this evening?"

For one desperate moment Mrs. Kendrick sought to shape a policy; Ellen's words sounded frightfully
like an invitation to the party. Would Mary Louise accept them so? Her worried, resentful glance
traveled over the tall, dignified figure, the correct, quiet costume. Oh, it had no business
to be as hard as this! But she must make the girl understand; she could not run the risk of
injury to Ellen's belated social opportunities.

"Why--you see--we--" she began, in an agony of embarrassment, "we can't--we can't--" Her voice
failed her. She looked fleetingly at Mary Louise, who returned the gaze with a look hurt, accusing,
difficult to meet. She drew her breath sharply, and began again with more resolution. "We'll
have an extra maid in to help with the serving. If you don't mind staying in the dining room
with her--" She ceased and waited hopefully, to see if the girl understood. There was an uncertain
silence. She must finish. "Ma'Lou, if you'd stay in the dining room with Tillie, and wouldn't
mind wearing a--cap--and apron like she does, why you could come over and look on."

Ellen Kendrick had seen somebody coming down the street. It was Emory Ford, and she flushed
and dimpled and smiled as she bowed to him, forgetting everything else, including the departing
Mary Louise, who, after one mute look at Mrs. Kendrick's flushed, disturbed face, turned and
walked with hanging head toward the house on the corner.

Arrived at home, she went methodically to work upon the promised candies and the little baskets
that were to contain them. Ezra Jackson's wife, noting the face of set misery, forbore long
to question her as she brought out the novel materials and pursued her work.

The afternoon wore on. Mrs. Jackson was at work at her sewing-machine in the front hall; but
she could not keep out of the kitchen, she made continual futile errands through it, giving
anxious, sidelong glances at the child over whom her heart yearned.

Finally, when she could bear it no more, "Did--did something hurt your feelings over there,
Ma'Lou?" she asked huskily.

She spoke behind her daughter's shoulder. The girl set the last finished basket in its place
in the row before she turned to answer. Then she showed a face so much more cheerful and composed
than the elder woman had dared hope for that the relief was almost revulsion.

"Sit down, mother," said Mary Lou, pushing a chair with her foot. "Sit there while I fill the
baskets, and I'll tell you about it."

The mother sat and watched the deft brown fingers, and marveled at the girl's collected manner,
her quiet, even voice. For Ezra Jackson's wife was shaken by alternate gusts of anger and hurt
pride, of shame and fear, as, with a judicial fairness extraordinary in one of her years and
sex, the girl went over the details of that unhappy visit. The old teamster had given his child
a heritage of rare good sense. Early in the recital the woman broke in bitterly with:

"And yet you're making candies for her party? Such as that is all they want of you. I wouldn't
do it. And I'd never step foot in their house again!"

"Why, mother, I'd certainly make these. I promised them," said Mary Louise mildly. She put
the last tiny candy potato in place, pushed back the basket, wiped her hands, and turned fully
to her mother. "But you're exactly right about not entering Judge Kendrick's house again,"
she said, with increasing emphasis. "I can't go in at the front door as a friend--that's true;
I can't. I certainly sha'n't go in at the back door as a servant--and--I've thought it all
out now--I see it plain--our people make a great mistake when they hang around the side doors
of white folks. There's no way but----"

"Don't say it, honey!" gasped the mother "Wait a minute." This was the end, and she could not
quite face it. She was to lose her youngest and dearest. Mary Lou was going back North to live
among the white people. Her head went down on the table the convulsed face hidden in her arms.
Then broke forth the cry of the blood:

"Oh, Lord! I reckon I'm just another fool nigger woman that's raised a child too good for her
own color. I wish I was dead--I wish I was dead!"

"Mother--mother!" The girl flung herself on her knees beside the chair, and caught at the other's
dress. "Don't take on that way. You don't understand. I'm--look around here--I'm glad of what
happened over there to-day. It's shown me the truth about a good many things. We're all black
people together. It's the only way for us now. I'm not going back to be Professor Sheridan's
secretary--a black woman among white people. I'm going to marry Grant--he's everything to me;
these people are nothing--and settle right down here in Watauga with him--and be happy and
useful. Mother, you didn't make any mistake in the way you brought me up. I'll be a credit
and a comfort to you yet."

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No. 1 JULY     1910

THE TRIAL BALANCE  {pages 83-94} 

By MAXIMILIAN FOSTER

Author of "Corrie Who?" etc.

Like so many others of her class, Stella Willoughby was a satisfied, confident woman, placidly
aware of the station her husband's money assured to her. For Willoughby was accounted wealthy
even in this lake town, where riches were so much in evidence; and if the wife betrayed a cool
superiority because of his money, it was only natural, perhaps, since she and most of her associates
knew no other means of gauging success, or worth, or the individual's place in life. Looking
over her shoulder now, she glanced nonchalantly across the club dining-room.

"You mean those people--the Severances, Mrs. Kinsman?" There was a bland indifference in her
tone that made the guest beside Mrs. Willoughby look at her curiously, for she knew that Severance
had once been a suitor for Mrs. Willoughby's hand. "I believe we did know them before they
dropped out. He lost everything, didn't he?--went to smash, as I vaguely remember."

Still with the same air of unconcern, she dipped the tips of her fingers in the finger-bowl,
and prepared to rise. "Queer they should come back here, isn't it?" she commented idly; and
then, as if the subject had passed from her mind with the observation, Mrs. Willoughby pushed
back her chair in signal to her guests, and led the way from the room. In the hall, while the
maid was putting on her wraps, she turned and looked back, still idly as before. Her eyes,
traveling about, rested a moment on the man sitting at the distant table, and then, when he
half rose from his place as if to bow, they journeyed on again, coolly unconcerned. A moment
later, smiling gayly, she walked down the steps to her carriage, and, with her guests, was
driven away to the theatre.

Yet, somehow, in spite of this sureness of speech and manner, the sight of her old-time suitor
had wakened in Mrs. Willoughby the subtle discontent that occasionally affected her--the discontent
of women who have only themselves to think about. One might have said that at these times she
was subconsciously wearied of her form of life; that, in so many words, though ignorant of
the fact, though, consciously, her vacuous life immensely satisfied her, she was BORED. But
to-day, bluntly speaking, it was about her husband that her vague dissatisfaction centered;
and when she had glanced coolly at her former suitor, it was for the purpose of comparison.

Willoughby was a fair type of the money-getter. Furthermore, what he had built had been raised
by his own hands unaided; he was a self-made man, whose one boast was that he owed nothing
to any one, not even so little as a debt of gratitude. One realized the fact, too, in the way
he carried on his affairs; for in his business he was alert and determined, implacably pursuing
his money-making as if it were a warfare, and considerate of none but those joined with him
in the moment's harvesting venture. Perhaps his reasons were sufficient--who knows? Perhaps
Willoughby was as well aware as they that the friends of to-day might reasonably become the
enemies of to-morrow.

But at home the money gathered so ruthlessly elsewhere was thrown about with a lavish hand.
Nothing that wealth could provide was denied Mrs. Willoughby or her boy; and though she had
been poor when she married, money, in the mere crudity of having it to spend, had long since
lost its novelty. To-day, beyond the pride of having it, and beyond the luxury and ostentation
it could buy, money possessed for her a far greater significance in its power to make one powerful.
In that she had already tasted the illogical enjoyment of one that can obtain power in no other
way. And it was because of this place that his money had bought her that Mrs. Willoughby began
to look on her husband with a critical eye.

For she was an ambitious woman, though one with definite limitations. Among different surroundings
and in an atmosphere less sordidly striving and commonplace, she was fitted to have become,
with some encouragement, an admirable and utterly inconspicuous wife and mother. But here,
in this narrow, money-getting environment, many things prevented; among them, primarily, the
way in which she had been brought up. For her father, too, had been driven by this lust for
riches; and though he had failed, to the last he had been goaded on by his one eager, grasping
hope. He had drummed into her head the single lesson that without money one is nothing.

In itself it suggested to the few a plausible reason why she had married Willoughby. There
had been nothing openly unhappy in their life together. Still, as others saw, Willoughby was
much older than his wife, radically without her social instincts, and, furthermore, when she
had accepted him, it had been pretty generally understood that Severance had won her heart.

And now, as she sat back in her carriage, remembrance came rapping like an unwelcome, unadmitted
visitant. She tried to put it away by chattering smartly; the theatre-wagon rolled along to
the clicking of hoofs on the asphalt; but through it all the troublous knocking persistently
recurred. For this was one of the few times when she had lingered upon a thought of that first
romance of hers; and now, coupled with her hardening criticism of Willoughby, it brought forth
insistent questions.

Whether she had really loved her husband when she married him, or whether she had not instead
been dazzled by his peculiar abilities remained in doubt.

Severance had come first; he had a little money to begin, and he was doing well with it and
seemed on the road to do better. Therefore, her friends were secure in the belief that she
would marry him, when Willoughby had made his appearance.

He went at this love-making of his as he went at all his affairs--implacably bold and ruthlessly
sweeping aside whoever or whatever came into his way. The fact that he and Severance were considered
friends seemed to have counted little; and when, a few months later, it was learned that she
had dropped one to take the other, it was also learned that Severance had played at ducks and
drakes with his money. Briefly, he had become bankrupt in a mining deal. He and others, Willoughby
among them, had gone into a Wyoming copper prospect--the Teton Sisters Company--and while Willoughby
apparently got off without damage, Severance had dropped everything. How, was never clearly
understood. Severance and his sister had parted with their home to satisfy his creditors, and
then moved away.

In the twelve years of the Willoughbys' married life, the tide of money had kept steadfastly
on the flood. Nothing his hands touched seemed to fail him. He had his fingers in every kind
of venture--mines and mills, foundries and furnaces, steam roads, trolley lines and public
utilities; and to each and every one of these promotions, the name of Willoughby affixed the
hall-mark of success. Now his dollars jingled in every state of the Union--and they jingled
in his own home, too, almost as the only evidences that the home was his. For Willoughby, pursuing
money everywhere, seemed to have lost interest in all else but his money-grubbing, just as
Willoughby's wife, excepting for the same money-grubbing, seemed to have lost all interest in him.

And now she had looked at Severance; her eyes had rested on him long enough to make comparisons--Severance
much improved, cool, suave, presentable, and deferential; her husband big and masterful, a
brooding, preoccupied man, and a kind of Orson to be kept denned in his money caves. She sighed
to herself regretfully.

Some minutes after Mrs. Willoughby had found her seat in the theatre box she was aware of another
party coming down the aisle. "Hello!" exclaimed the man beside her, "here come Hudson Mills
and his wife with Case Severance. I didn't know he was in town."

Mrs. Willoughby laid a gloved finger to her lips and affected to yawn, though she stole a glance
out of the corner of her eye. Her guest was now nodding over her shoulder at the arrivals in
the seats below.

"Severance has made a ten-strike, I hear," he volunteered, in an expressive, if inelegant,
idiom of the money game; "there's a story going the rounds that Mills and Severance have been
gunning together and that some one else got burned. Anyway, I hear they've lined their pockets.
Severance is rich again."

This mixed metaphor affected Mrs. Willoughby with a curious interest. "Oh, is he!" she exclaimed,
and, glancing down, she looked unexpectedly into Severance's watching eyes.

But she seemed not in the least disconcerted. Severance was just turning away, mindful of the
previous snub, when, with a reassuring smile, she bowed, and then smiled again. For why not?
Severance's position had been reestablished in her world.

It was late that night when Mrs. Willoughby returned home. There was a light in her husband's
library, and before going to her room she stopped and tapped at the door. Willoughby, with
a pile of papers stacked before him, sat with his chin in his hand, staring absently at the
wall. As the door opened, he turned for a moment, and then, seeing who it was, thrust his hands
into his pockets and slouched down in his chair. "Well?" he murmured, absently.

Mrs. Willoughby, slipping out of her wrap, dropped into a convenient seat.

"Are you still at it? It's nearly one o'clock, Harmon." Yawning slightly, she wriggled her
feet out of her carriage slippers and kicked them under her chair. Willoughby looked up, silently
watching her, and a momentary small shadow crept into his face. Yet the shadow, small as it
was, could not have been because of any flaw in his wife's appearance. Mrs. Willoughby was
still young and fair to look upon, clear-eyed and almost girlish, her rounded, regular features
set off picturesquely by her hat and its flowing purple plumes, even though both hat and plumes
were extravagant in size. Willoughby must have known another reason to frown.

"Where've you been?" he demanded, heavily, his voice bare of any interest. He was a large,
florid man, heavily built, square-jawed, and with the deep, scrutinous eyes of one aware of
his own power and accustomed to enforce it. But now his eyes seemed listless, as if weary of
the strain that had kept them so long on the alert.

"I? At the club," she answered, briefly. Though her own home was large and amply appointed,
few were ever asked there to anything more formal than a luncheon or an afternoon at bridge.
Home hospitality and the housekeeping it involved had long since become a bore to her; like
many others in her set, she had learned to square her obligations through the convenience of
her husband's club. The hospitality there entailed no other bother than paying the bills. "Just
dinner at the club, and the theatre afterward."

She stripped off her long gloves and dropped them to the floor beside her carriage slippers.
Again her husband studied her, almost covertly, one might have thought.

"Any one there?" Willoughby began absently to pick at the edges of the papers on his desk.

She shook her head. "No one you'd care about, I think. There were only three tables besides
mine. Mrs. Chardon and her daughter with some of her young friends, and then--" Mrs. Willoughby
closely inspected one of her rubies. "The Severances are back in town, Harmon. He and his sister
were there with Hudson Mills and his wife."

"Severance--with MILLS!" cried her husband, lifting his head alertly. It was not often that
Mrs. Willoughby's talk with him evoked such instant attention. "See here, Stella, are you sure
it was Severance?"

"Sure? Sure whether it was Severance? Why, of course I am!" she answered petulantly. She and
her husband had never discussed the man, and it seemed a late day now to begin. "What in the
world is--?" she began, and then desisted. Willoughby, slouched down in his chair again, had
dropped his chin on his breast and was nervously gnawing his lip.

His wife leaned over and gathered up slippers and gloves. "I think I'll go to bed," she murmured
carelessly, and wandered toward the door. Willoughby made no response, and she turned and slowly
came back. A calendar hanging from the gas bracket had fallen a little aslant, and she reached
up and critically straightened it. "Harmon, I hear Case Severance is rich again. I wonder how
he managed it."

"Hey? Who?" Willoughby jerked up his head as if startled from a dream--and not a very pretty
dream, either, if one might judge from his countenance. "Oh, you mean HIM," he uttered thickly.
"How do I know. I suppose he's been up to some of his games again." An almost savage dislike
and contempt evidenced themselves in his tone, and pushing back his chair, he picked up his
papers and arose. "You'd better go to bed Stella," he suggested brusquely, averting his eyes
from her quick scrutiny; "I've got a lot of work here."

She laid a hand on his arm. "What's wrong with you?" she asked intently. There was alertness
in the question, rather than responsive softness. Willoughby drew a hand across his mouth.
"Nothing's wrong Stella. I've had a hard day. Aren't you going?"

"Yes--in just a moment." She had moved toward the door again, and now was standing with her
hand on the knob. "It's Willard's birthday next Wednesday." Willard was their boy. "He'll be
eleven, an he wants an electric runabout. The Doane boys have one, and he's just crazy about
it We'd better let him have it."

Willoughby frowned, and irritably ruffled the papers in his hand. "A runabout. No; he sha'n't
have it. He's too young, and besides----"

"Oh, nonsense, Harmon!"

Willoughby fluttered his papers more irritably than before.

"Well, he can't have it; that's all I have to say." Ordinarily, he gave to her and the boy
what they wished, never questioning the cost or character of what they bought "Eleven, and
wants an automobile!" he commented, sullenly. "When I was his age I was working day and night
to support my----"

"Yes, I know, Harmon," interrupted Mrs. Willoughby, affecting to stifle a yawn "but Willard,
fortunately, doesn't have to think of that."

Mrs. Willoughby gave her gloves a disdainful, careless twirl, and went on her way to her room.
To her astonishment, a few moments later, she heard the front door slam. Willoughby had gone out.

He was away for nearly a week; and when he returned, his eyes were heavy and blood-shot, his
face was pallid and wearily drawn.

"Well, so you are back. What have you been doing?" Mrs. Willoughby asked, perfunctorily. Though
it was late in the morning she was still in bed, sitting up in a dressing sack, and turning
the pages of a weekly publication that dealt in news of local high life. Its chief item, to-day,
was the announcement of a dance she was to give shortly--at the club, as usual--and she had
just finished for the second time the commentator's glib and unctuous phrasing.

He answered evasively, "Oh, just away on business." As he walked to the window and looked out,
she carelessly turned the pages. "Stella, what did you do for the boy's birthday?" he asked,
slowly pacing back to the foot of the bed.

She turned another page. "The boy? Oh, I gave him some money, and sent him down-town with the
coachman. I was too busy." Smiling lightly, she went on glancing through the paper. "I suspect
he stuffed himself on candy."

But there was no answering smile on Willoughby's face. "On candy? How much did you give him?"

Without looking up, she answered as lightly as before. "Oh, I can't remember now. Let me think."
Then she vaguely named an amount, and Willoughby pressed his lips together.

"Stella," he said slowly, after a moment's darkening of his eyes, "do you know that amounts
to a week's salary of more than one of my clerks? Don't you think it was a great deal to give
a boy?"

She looked up now, astonished--a little vexed, too; for this was the second time he had questioned
her use of money. "Well, what of it? It seems of little consequence." She buried her face in
the paper again after this shot, and Willoughby stared at her.

"No," he murmured, reflectively, an alarming bitterness in his voice; "nothing seems of any
consequence."

As she glanced casually over the top of her paper, she saw him draw a hand across his face;
but, still vexed, she took no warning from the sign. "Well, there's no need of making a fuss,
is there?" she asked, rebukingly. Thus showing how distasteful the subject had become, and,
having had her say, she instantly changed the topic. "You're coming home Thursday night, aren't
you?"

Willoughby watched her absorbedly. "I don't know. Why?"

"Oh, I just wanted to find out. It's the night of my dance, you know."

"A dance? Your dance?" He drew in his breath, and his hands, gripping the bed's footboard,
closed a little tighter. "I'd forgotten that. Yes, your dance, and I----"

He broke off wearily, his lips framing a mere wraith of a smile, and in its gravity she still
saw no warning of deep waters stirring troublously. "A dance--you're giving a dance!" he repeated,
and there came into his eyes a subtle hint of mockery that, coupled with the words, gave them
almost the significance of a jeer.

"Oh, for heaven's sake, Harmon!" Mrs. Willoughby threw down her paper irritably, aware only
of the unspoken protest in his manner, and disdaining to analyze it. "See here--are you going
to make a fuss about that, too? Or are you still growling about the boy? I should think a man
with your money would be above----"

It seemed unnecessary to round out the sentence; in itself the fragment, sharply uttered, peevish
and fretful, conveyed more than enough. "You wouldn't let him have what he wanted; so what's
the use of making it any worse? He swallowed his disappointment; but if you're getting ready
to complain about me now, I'll----"

"Yes, I've thought there was good stuff in the boy," he interrupted, the slow words cutting
short her vehement protest. "Where is he now?" he added abruptly. " I think I'd like to see him."

Mrs. Willoughby flounced down among the pillows. "I don't know--at school, I suppose. Aren't
you going to your office to-day?"

Willoughby shook his head. He turned to the door, moving heavily; and there, at last, in his
sunken head, his shoulders wearily bent, she caught some hint of the man's hidden emotion.
Astonishment at first ousted all else from her thought, and she gaped at him in wonder. Then
came a small, chilling touch of fear.

"HARMON!" At the swift call he looked back at her. "Harmon! Has anything happened?"

His answer was an evasion, and she knew it. "I'm staying home to see some men. That's all."

But the moment's fear was too stressful to be so easily set at rest. "Wait--do you hear?" She
slipped from the bed, and, with her eyes still fastened on him she groped about till she found
her down slippers. Willoughby had slowly opened the door, but his wife angrily reached over
his shoulder and pushed it shut. "You SHALL tell me!" she insisted, fiercely determined. "I
want to know what's happened."

Willoughby shook off her hand, and renewed his effort at the door. "I've nothing to tell you,"
he rumbled sullenly; and then--"What do you want to know for?"

She caught her breath, certain now of the fear that shook her like an ague. He was in trouble,
and trouble, to her, meant but the one thing--a money trouble. It was the first time in her
years of placid, self-possessed vanity that any terror like this had come to jar her. To lose
it now--this bought and paid-for complacency, this counterpart of happiness, struck her to
the heart with a keener, more convincingly human emotion than she had known for many a day
in her negligent, shallow existence.

"You want to know?" he answered, and smiled at her in grim, accusing mockery. "All right, then;
I'll tell you. You'd better  be ready for it, too." In his brutality there was a guarded note
of self-pity, as if to see her suffer would somehow rejoice him in his own trouble. "Well,
I'm smashed up--that's all. I'm ruined!"

Mrs. Willoughby, shrinking away, laid a hand on her lips and stared with distended eyes. "RUINED?"
she gasped, unable to believe him--incredulously, as if at some barbaric jest. "Ruined?" She
had turned quite white. "Oh," she cried, wetting her lips, "does it mean there is nothing left?
How did it happen? Oh, it can't be true!"

"How did it happen?" Willoughby had thrust both hands into his pockets, and his head was turned
sideways, as if the better to study the depths of her emotion. "Oh, the usual way--flying too
many kites, I suppose. Poor?" he growled savagely. "Yes; we're poor as Job's turkey! They've
cleaned me out of everything--their----Teton Sisters, too!"

In her mind's bewilderment of distress she caught at the name; it was the property in which
Severance had lost his money; and she recalled ugly rumors that, before, had not affected her.
Now that his money was gone, they attached to themselves a newer significance, accusing and
indefensible. "The Teton Sisters! What do you mean?" For was the shame of losing his wealth
to be coupled with the shameful admission that he had taken a hand in gouging her former suitor?
It was singular she hadn't thought of it before; now it struck home with redoubled poignancy.

"Mean, hey? I mean they've got it away from me--Mills and that fellow Severance. It was the
prettiest thing I owned, too," he groaned, careless of what he was saying, and blurting out
the acknowledgment. "But that ain't the worst--no, not by a long chalk! Do you know what they're
going to do?" he demanded, hoarsely, and with an almost weeping resentment, yet as if glad
to find some one to whom to pour it out. "They're going to sue for the money, too!"

"What money?" she persisted, hollowly, determined now to know all. It might be dreadful to
lose one's money--it was dreadful; but to have this man drag her down into his own shame, too--ah!

Willoughby threw up both hands in a gesture of ungovernable petulance. "Oh, what's the use
of talking about it?" he growled, and then instantly his voice dropped. "Stella, I'm sorry
for your sake. We'll have to begin all over again, dear."

"But you shall talk of it!" she directed, with a cruel and cutting significance in her voice.
"You can't hide it from me now."

His mouth opened dumbfoundedly. Then he thrust out his jaw with a reawakened truculency, now
aimed at her.

"Well, then--it was the money I took from that fellow--from your old friend, Severance. He was----"

"You took it from him!" she cried. "You mean you STOLE it!"

Willoughby's mouth twitched, as if she had struck him a blow. "So that's the way you look at
it now, is it?" he said, his voice quietly effective. "All right, then! I came in here hoping
to get a word of sympathy from you--perhaps a little kindness. But I knew it was only a hope."
He drew a deep breath. "Now don't work yourself up over him, I warn you, my dear. I won't tell
you why I ruined him, years ago, but I'll tell you how. You've called me a thief, so I'll give
you some more facts before you jump at conclusions."

"I don't want excuses--it's explanations!"

It was another taunt that struck home, but Willoughby again mastered himself grimly. "Any one
of us would have done it," he answered, ignoring the remark. "Severance made it easy. I did
to him only what he tried to do to others. When he saw how good the mine was, he wanted me
to help him rook them out of their stock, so that we could get it. Simple enough, of course,
but they'd been square with me. No, I refused--but I did accommodate him to the extent of doing
him out of his own block. He'd mortgaged everything to buy shares, and when he was where I
wanted him, all tied up with loans and not able to borrow another cent, I told the mine people
what Severance was trying to do. So they put in a ruinous report, and every one from whom he'd
borrowed a cent just called his loans and foreclosed on him right and left. He went down and
out--and that's all there was to it. Nobody else got hurt, and we divided his stock among us.
Can't you see how it was, Stella?" he asked quietly, and stood awaiting her verdict.

"Yes! I see how it was!" she flashed. "It was robbery--you can't excuse yourself."

If she had wished to sting him again, the attempt seemed to become fruitful. "Excuses! I make
none, do you hear?" he retorted, incensed. " I ruined him to get him out of your way--yes!--oh,
you needn't say it!--out of mine, too. Look here!" he cried, passionately; "don't you think
I didn't know you? All you looked for or lived for was--" But he broke off there, and surveyed
her with an affronted dullness, as if it were only wasted effort. "Oh, well, what's the use?"
he muttered, and with morose and glowering eyes slouched through the doorway.

Mrs. Willoughby lay among the pillows, her arms flung out and her face half hidden by her disordered
hair. TO BE POOR! Her mind seized on that as the one incalculable shame that had befallen her--on
that, rather than on her view of his dishonesty. Curiously enough, it was not only the loss
of the money itself and the imminent surrender of her ease and luxury and ostentation that
dismayed her. She was anguished, as well, by the stigma of being poor. She was able to see
only the mean side of it; the pity of her friends already rang in her ears like scorn, mocking
her because the one thing that had made her was now stripped away. Hers was not the nature
to see the other side of it--the helpful nobility of self-denial, the heroism of unselfishness,
the courage that stoically faces the narrow and sordid effort whose rewards are only in the
future. No, indeed!--there was only a savage resentment in her mind, the inexplicable sense
that somehow she had been tricked and cheated, and that he alone was to blame.

Though she accused him of dishonesty in the Severance affair, the charge was only secondary.
Given another time, she might carelessly have acquitted him, taking his own say-so as enough;
but Willoughby now had chosen a poor hour for his acknowledgment, when he linked it to the
tidings of his ruin. All that day she kept to her bed, her mind absorbed with the catastrophe
that had swept out from under her the unsolid prop of her arrogant money pride. For, again,
without money what was left?

She showed herself the day following, wan and silent. Willoughby was away; the news of his
failure was public property, and she writhed when she read of it in the daily prints. But in
the following days she suffered other pangs that were a healthy counter-irritant--she learned
to pick and number her FRIENDS, and to know, among so large a list of acquaintances, how very
few they were. Though she was prepared for this, well aware what befalls the one with broken
playthings, nevertheless she was filled with bitter exasperation against those who were no
more careless than she had been herself. So she left orders with the servants that none was
to be admitted.

Her husband was not so easily evaded. He returned, three days later, and, walking straight
to her, laid a hand on her shoulder. "Stella, I'm mighty sorry; but if you'll help me, I can
get on my feet again."

"Oh, don't bother me!" she retorted, flinging off his hand. Willoughby flushed, seemed about
to make a bitter retort, and apparently changed his mind. "Stella, I'm in a good deal of trouble.
A kind word or two would help." But the wife maintained a sullen dumbness, her eyes turned
away from him; and Willoughby retired, shaking his head.

At the week end he tried again, hopefully. "Stella, it's not so bad as we first thought. I
think we'll save enough to live on--maybe enough to keep our home. But you'll have to lend a hand."

She looked up from her packing. "What do you say?" she demanded, with a rekindled interest,
and at the sight of it his eyes lightened.

"Why, if you're willing to go slowly, and put up with a few things, we might be able to do it."

"Humh!" Mrs. Willoughby bent over her trunk again. "I suppose that means you'd make me a kind
of drudge. Thank you; I prefer the other way."

"The other way?" he inquired, looking at her closely. "What do you mean by that?"

She affected to show her carelessness by smoothing the clothes in the trunk tray. "Oh, I'm
going to take the boy and go away somewhere for a while."

It was not unexpected. Willoughby came a step nearer, his brow wrinkled ominously. "You shall
not!" he said, with a slow distinctness, every syllable rapped out decisively. Then his anger,
righteous enough in its way, got the better of him. "Listen to me, Stella!' he gritted, clenching
his hands beside him. "I can see clear through you. You haven't the nerve to face this down,
so you're going to sling me overboard. That's it, isn't it? Well, you sha'n't. I've handled
you like a fool, these years, and now I'm going to take charge. You'll stay here--not because
of yourself or me--but for the boy!" he cried; and Mrs. Willoughby arose, quiet, but white.

"No," she answered, clearly; "we've played this farce too long, Harmon. I don't think I'm suited
to you, and I'm sure you're not suited to me. We married under false ideas of each other."

Willoughby turned white, too, but, restraining himself, he peered at her from under his heavy
brows. "No, we didn't!" he retorted, solemnly. "YOU did, but I didn't! You married me thinking
my money would buy you what you wanted. I question whether you thought of ME at all. But I
married you, Stella, knowing exactly what you were, and, since I've paid for it, I intend you
shall stick to your bargain."

"Oh, yes," she answered, smiling a little in scorn, "it would be like you to call it a bargain.
But you can't prevent my leaving." "No--perhaps not; but I can give you a good, strong argument
why you shouldn't. Don't think I'm the only one that knows you--why, good Lord, Stella, I've
no monopoly on the knowledge! Do you know what they'll say of you, all these fair weather friends
that've dropped you like a smashed toy? I DO--they'll say you've wrung me dry, and that now
I'm ruined you've chucked me just as they thought you would. If you care to know, I've heard
whispers of it already; so I'm going to save my boy, if I can."

Mrs. Willoughby stood with a hand at her throat, gasping; the shot had struck home. "How dare
you?" she whispered. "How dare you, after what I know of you? You say that, after cheating
me into marrying you?"

Willoughby tossed his head. "Do you still refer to Severance?" he inquired, caustically; and
then his face darkened. "I'll tell you why I cheated you into marrying me. It was because I
loved you, I think," he said, and there came a wistfulness into his voice that almost startled
her. But she put it away scornfully.

"You mean you stole his money to get me!" she retorted, unequivocally.

"I did--you're quite right!" he answered quickly. "And do you know what became of the money?"
he demanded, pausing long enough to wet his lips, but giving her no time to reply "Well, it
bought the clothes you wore--your hats--your gloves--your jewels. It's paid for your extravagances--or
a part of them. It bought you the carriage you wanted; your string of pearls too. My soul!"
he cried in a kind of fierce wonderment, "it bought nearly all there is of you, I think! It
bought you, besides--that money did--his, with a lot more added to it!"

Mrs. Willoughby stared at him confounded--the situation had become reversed. She found herself
impugned and called to defend when she had thought only to attack. It was a bitter reflection
that he had, all along, hidden his contempt, while she had been idly picking flaws in him.

"Oh, yes!" he cried, going on; "all you looked for or lived for was money. I'd heard your father
drum it into your head, and I'd seen the way you took it in!" He threw up his hand with a gesture
of intolerable regret, this man who had been only a money-grubbing automaton. "I was ashamed,
at first, but as you'd seemed to take a fancy to me, I deluded myself into thinking you cared.
I knew Severance, too. He was clever and shrewd, but crooked as a fish-hook. At the time he
was making love to you, there was another. But, never mind, I won't talk of that. I saw you,
and it didn't take long to turn my head." He smiled wistfully, as before. "I'd never seen a
woman like you, you know. I'd been too busy trying to keep alive. But there was this Severance,
and--oh, well, what's the use?" he muttered again thickly. "You got your money, and I got the
woman I loved. Yes, I got her--my soul!" he protested; "and it's a pretty trial balance, isn't
it, to cast up on a day like this?"

Silenced, she stood and watched him, waiting for the next storm of his passion. But Willoughby's
rage seemed to have burned itself out. He drifted across the room and reached his hand for
the bell-pull. "Put away that trunk," he ordered quietly, facing her; "I'm going to run things
now. If you're determined to leave me, you'll have to put it off a while. I'm going to save
the boy. When I'm on my feet again, I'll give you what money you want; but there shall be no
open scandal." Still silent, she was watching him, when the maid came in answer to the bell.
"Help Mrs. Willoughby with these," he said curtly, denoting the half-packed trunk; "we're not
going away." And in the presence of the servant she dared make no rejoinder. Later in the day
he looked in again; Mrs. Willoughby and the maid were rearranging the room, and the trunk had
been whisked away. He smiled grimly, and withdrew.

There could be but two results from a conflict like this: she would either scorn him the more
or she would come to respect him. For days the outcome wavered in the balance. They met at
the table only--she sitting preoccupied, he talking quietly with the boy. At the week end he
brought her a roll of bills. "For the house money," he said briefly; and when she would not
reach out a hand for it, he dropped it in her lap, and went away. But that night she entered
into the talk at the table, a little quiet, still repressed, and showing her hurt. Willoughby,
quietly deferential, kept to his part of the conversation exactly as if nothing ugly had occurred
between them. His bantering with his son was genial and affectionate, and once she thought
he tried to include her in this camaraderie. The few last shreds of her vanity, however, still
waved distressing signals of the hurt, and she evaded it. But she felt strangely alone, notwithstanding;
with an almost unconquerable self-pity she reflected on the fair-weather friends that had deserted
her. A little sense of comfort trickled into her heart, though, when she thought of her boy.
HE, at all events, had not been affected by the rumble of drums that had beaten her out of
the worldly camp where once she had commanded. That night Willoughby looked in at her, while
she sat musing over a book, and when she would not look up at him he went away again. A more
complete sense of her loneliness came over her as the hours passed in the big, silent house.
So she laid down her book, and went up-stairs to her boy's room.

"Who's there?" he cried, awakening from a doze.

"Just I, Willard. I came up to see whether you were all right."

"Oh, yes, I am!" he answered, a little perplexed; it had not been often that she had found
time from her busy affairs for a visit like this. The boy took her hand in his and snuggled
down in the pillows. "It's nice to have you, mumsy," he mumbled, comfortably.

Willoughby, coming home the next evening, heard her talking to the cook. "You mustn't be so
wasteful, Annie. Unless you can do better, I shall have to get some one else." Her voice was
peevish, but to Willoughby it sounded full of inexplicable melody. Nor when she carried her
complaint to him later, at the dinner-table, was he less affected with a secret joy. "Harmon--we'd
better take a smaller house. I can't do it any longer on what we have."

"You needn't," he answered lightly; "I can let you have more. Things are working out better
than I expected. Just let me know what you're short at the end of the week. I can manage it."

That night, too, he came and sat in the room where she was reading. He said nothing, and picked
up another book. But she knew what he wished, and resolutely steeled herself. The next night
he was there again. "Good night, dear," he said cheerfully, daring the added word when she
arose to go.

"Good night," she answered.

But on the evening following they talked together, each evading the shoals of past regret,
and threading only the safe channels of the commonplace. "Good night, Stella dear," he said,
unaffectedly, as she picked up her things; and she answered: "Good night, Harmon."

He came close to her, and looked down into her face. "Stella," he said, quietly; "Stella, it
would make me very happy if you--if I might--why, kiss you good night."

Mrs. Willoughby gathered up the remainder of her things, and then slowly shook her head.

"No, we won't talk of that--yet!" she answered, and went away up the stairs. Willoughby bit
his lip, looking silently after her.

"Why, mumsy!" exclaimed the boy, his hand touching his mother's cheek as she leaned over him.
"What's wrong?"

She shook her head vehemently in the dark. "Nothing at all, dear. You must go to sleep now."

The next day, Willoughby, on his return from down-town, found her busily superintending the
two servants while they cleaned up his room. It was an unexpected attention on her part. He
withdrew quietly. A little while later, leaning over the balusters, she saw Willard whispering
to him earnestly. "Did she, my boy?" she heard the man cry under his breath. "Why, now, mumsy
must just have been a little tired. I don't think it was anything else." Willoughby's smile
seemed enough at the moment to reassure almost any one.

At dinner his lightness, good-nature, geniality became infectious. Even Mrs. Willoughby suffered
herself to smile at his whimsical jollity with the boy. Later there was the little comedy of
the good night; and then they parted again. But Willoughby did not go out as usual.

It was very late that night when Mrs. Willoughby awoke with the conviction that some one was
in her room. Her first impulse was to cry out in alarm; then, in terror she lay quiet, peering
from beneath her half-closed lids. Across the lighter background of the curtained window a
figure moved, big and familiar in its bulk. She knew then, and there seemed a greater reason
than ever why she should remain quiet.

Nor was she wrong in her surmise. A moment later Willoughby leaned over, and she felt his lips
lightly brush her cheek. A little sigh followed, and then he was gone, tiptoeing cautiously.
Mrs. Willoughby sat up in bed, her face in her hands, and reflected in the stillness that presages
the storm. But loneliness no longer pained her; the solitude had become suddenly peopled with
vivid, poignant regrets, shouting loudly their indictment and their appeal.

Then, with the curious informality of a woman's emotion--whether of grief or of joy, whether
of pleasure or of pain--she rocked down her head to her knees, while through her fingers poured
the scalding tears. Mrs. Willoughby had become sincere at last.

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.1 JULY     1910

The Painter of "Diana of the Tides" {pages 95-103}

By WALTER PRICHARD EATON

Author of "The American Stage of To-day," etc.

Given nearly three hundred square feet of blank wall space, and it takes something of an artist
to fill it up with interesting paint. Probably you would not pick a miniature painter for the
task. Yet, curiously, John Elliott, creator of "Diana of the Tides," the great mural painting
which adorns the large gallery to the right of the entrance of the new National Museum at Washington,
also paints on ivory. He works, likewise, in silver point, that delicate and difficult medium;
he draws pastel illustrations for children's fairy tales; he works in portraiture with red
chalk or oils. And, when the need comes, he has shown that he can turn stevedore, carpenter,
and architect, to slave with the relief party at Messina, finally to help design and build,
in four months, an entire village for the stricken sufferers, including a hotel, a hospital,
three schoolhouses, and a church. The too frequent scorn of the "practical man of affairs"
for the artist and dreamer, the world's sneaking tolerance for the temperament which creates
in forms of ideal beauty rather than in bridges or factories or banks, finds in the life and
work of such a man as John Elliott such complete, if unconscious, refutation, that his story
should have its place in the history of the day.

John Elliott was born on Good Friday, 1859, one of a famous Scottish border family. His residence
is now in Boston, Massachusetts, at the home of his mother-in-law. Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. Robert
Louis Stevenson had Elliott blood in his veins. "Parts of me," he once wrote, "have shouted
the slogan of the Elliotts in the debatable land." If Stevenson's Homeric account of the Four
Black Elliotts in "Weir of Hermiston" is historically veracious, we might fancy that one of
their descendants would feel his activities somewhat cramped on Beacon Street, Boston. The
Elliotts were a wild lot, and some of them did not escape the hangman. Their family tree appears
to have been the gallows. But Stevenson tells us they were noted for their prayers, and at
least one of them wrote poetry, and declaimed it, drunk, to Walter Scott, who retaliated in kind.

But the present John Elliott, artist, though he is of the kin of Stevenson, and bears the dark
hair and rather prominent, melancholy eyes of the traditional Elliott stock, yet physically
much more closely resembles Edgar Allan Poe. If you press him hard, he will confess that he
began life by studying for the stage, and "almost played Romeo," before painting drew him away.
Reaching Italy, he aspired to enter the studio of Don Jose di Villegas, now director of the
Prado Museum in Madrid, but then in Rome. Villegas took no pupils. But "Jack" Elliott is Scotch.
He made a bargain. He would teach the master English, in return for instruction in painting.
At the end of two years, young Elliott had learned much about art, but the master, he says,
had acquired only one English phrase--"I haf no money!"

At the end of two years, Elliott wished to leave, because he despaired of painting like his
master. "That is why I keep you," said Villegas; "you have retained your own manner and choice
of subjects." So the pupil stayed on in Rome for five years, sharing his studio later with
Aristide Sartorio, now a leading Italian painter. Here, in the Via Flaminia, he painted his
first important mural decoration, for the dining room of Mrs. Potter Palmer's Chicago Lake
Shore mansion. This work, called "The Vintage," is decorously inebriate, a vinous riot of little
cupids. It led, shortly after his marriage in 1887 to Miss Maud Howe, a daughter of Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe, to his establishing himself in Chicago, where he did many decorations and portraits.
In 1894, he went back to Rome to execute a commission for a huge ceiling piece for the Boston
Public Library. The piece was for a room later converted into a children's room, and after
the canvas was placed, in 1901, the incongruity of the adult painting and the purposes of the
room caused unfavorable comment. But the room has been recently readjusted. It is now lined
with high oak shelves, almost to the cornice, filled with musty old books of a beautiful brown--perhaps
the most effective decoration in the world--and the ceiling tells at its true value.

This ceiling, fifty feet square, divided into two equal panels, represents the twenty Christian
centuries, as horses, led by the hours (winged female figures) out of the mists of the past
into the illumination of the present. The models for the horses were the undersized nags of
the Roman Campagna, which are "small but decorative beasties," as Mr. Elliott puts it, and
lend themselves to a slightly conventional treatment. They sweep two by two, out of a cool
mistiness, round the ceiling past the suggestion of a pale moon, into the full radiance of
the golden orb of the sun. The triumph of the picture is its handling of the problem of light.
This golden daybreak pierces the mists whereon the horses gallop, touches here a flank, there
a wing feather on one of the hours, and warms to rosy glow the tip of a cloud. It appears in
unexpected places, grows where only shadow seemed to be, and surprises you anew each time you
look up. Painted in the flat--that is, with no part of the picture telling as farther from
the eye than another, to distort the proportions of the room--the ceiling yet has great depth,
distance, airy lightness. It is a true decorative painting.

While at work upon it, Mr. Elliott painted many portraits, including the well-known red chalk
heads of the "Soldiers Three," Lord Ava, the Marquis of Winchester, and General Wauchope; the
portrait of His Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge; and that of Lady Katherine Thynne, now
Lady Cromer, a celebrated English beauty. Indeed, he made her the model for the second hour
in the Boston ceiling, the figure next to the leader in the procession. Three studies of her
head for this figure, well known from reproduction, are now in the possession of Thomas W. Lawson.

In Rome the Elliotts occupied for some time the apartments of Mrs. Elliott's cousin, the late
F. Marion Crawford, in the Palazzo Santa Croce. In writing "With the Immortals," Mr. Crawford
had collected many death masks, including one of Dante, which fascinated Mr. Elliott. Two pictures
of "Dante in Exile" were the result. One of them now hangs in the living room of Queen Margherita
of Italy, the other in the house of Mrs. J. Montgomery Sears of Boston. A third pastel study
was made, an unfinished head of the poet, and thrown into a wastebasket. By a curious fatality,
it is now better known than either of the paintings. Mrs. Elliott rescued the drawing, smoothed
it out, framed it, and was allowed to hang it in her chamber. Later it was seen and purchased
by Mrs. David Kimball of Boston, and in reproduction has gone all over the world, receiving
honors in Japan and the higher honor of a place over the desk of many Dante students. Yet few
who possess the reproduction know anything of the artist.

Mr. Elliott, receiving his commission to do a great mural painting for the new National Museum
in Washington, again went to Rome four years ago. "Diana of the Tides" was completed and signed
on Christmas day, 1908. Three days later came the awful news of the Messina earthquake, and
the Hon. Lloyd Griscom, then American Ambassador to Italy, at once called for volunteers for
his relief expedition. John Elliott was among the first to respond. He went south officially
as an interpreter. Actually, he played the part of stevedore as well for ten days on the relief
ship.

"I have dropped my last knuckle down the hold this morning," he wrote back, "and I have only
two fingers left that I can wash."

After a few weeks, he hastened back to Rome, to give a promised public exhibition of "Diana
of the Tides," and, as soon as the exhibition was over, rushed down to Messina again.

There Commander Belknap, who was at the head of the American relief forces, put him to work,
as architect, on the erection of the American village, in the lemon groves on the outskirts
of the stricken city. "I had never been trained as an architect," he says, "but I once made
over a house up in Cornish, New Hampshire, and that gave me a practical experience which came
in remarkably handy."

Most of the lumber had been cut for the erection of small houses, and the door and window frames
were stock pieces. It became his task to design and build, as quickly as could be done, not
only comfortable houses for many thousand people, but a church, a hotel, three schools, a hospital,
all out of these small lumber units. He combined the units for the larger buildings, so grouping
the small stock window frames as to give a pleasing effect of size, even constructing a kind
of rose window for the church. He helped lay out the streets in such a way as to preserve all
the trees possible. And, in spite of the haste with which the work had to he done, and the
sixteen-hour-a-day strain under which the workers labored, the Zona Americana emerged an attractive
and sanitary, as well as practical, village. Queen Helena, as soon as the American village
was under way, got Mr. Elliott to go over the drafts for the plans of the American quarter
in her village near by, working them up along the same lines. So, in four months, he designed
and superintended the erection of houses, churches, schools, and hospitals for a town of several
thousand inhabitants.

Commander Belknap's report spoke of him as "the first to volunteer, and the most devoted worker,
sharing every hardship with unfailing good humor and leaving his beautifying touch on every
part of the work."

On June 12, 1908, having built his town and recovered his lost knuckles, John Elliott returned
to Rome, where the soil did not rock, and set quietly about making twenty-four small pastel
drawings to illustrate a fairy story! From building houses for the wretched homeless sufferers,
he turned to the play tales of childhood. He laid down the T square and the hammer for a piece
of pastel crayon. But he had triumphantly refuted the scorn of the "practical man" for the
artist. He had shown the stuff that dreams are really made of. Incidentally, he had won for
himself a decoration from the King of Italy, and the medal of the American Red Cross Association.

"Diana of the Tides," which now covers the end wall of the right-hand gallery of the new National
Museum at Washington, is akin to the Boston Library ceiling in its employment of horses symbolically,
its light, luminous color, and its subtle play of illumination. This charm of illumination
is unfortunately lost in reproduction. Mr. Elliott has made symbolic use of Diana, the Moon
Goddess. in a way obvious enough, but hitherto, oddly, untried by artists. It is a way singularly
appropriate in a museum of scientific character--a combination of ancient myth and modern science.
As the Moon Goddess, Diana controls the four tides, which, in the shape of horses, draw her
erect and jubilant figure on a great seashell. They are without guiding reins and harness,
to suggest the unseen channels of her sway. If the reader will note an advancing wave, he will
see that, just before the crest curls over, the foam is tossed back. Then the wave bows and
breaks. So the nearest horse raises his head slightly, the next higher, the third tosses his
head back, and the last has bowed his neck. In their motion and grouped attitudes. as they
gallop up on the  beach, is the rhythm of an oncoming wave. Farther than that Mr. Elliott wisely
did not go. "Let them suggest more obviously a wave," he says, "and you have a trick picture.
After a while, you wouldn't see anything in it but the trick." The wave motion is repeated
on a comber out at sea, and, to the left, against a rock on the shore.

Diana stands behind the horses, against the great, golden moon--a radiant halo. She has just
unloosed an arrow from her bow. Her draperies are of indefinite color, the rose and lilac and
amber of sunset. Her face, it will be noted, though she stands against the moon, is lighted
from in front. In that fact lies the secret of the illumination. For this picture was supposedly
painted at that one Byronic hour of the year when

   The sun was setting opposite the moon.

Turner, in a small water color, has worked out a similar problem, with the cool copper of the
harvest moonlight bathing one side of an old stone tower, the warm rose of sunset the other.
In Mr. Elliott's great canvas the mutual lights kill all shadows, and out toward the great
yellow disk of the moon the invisible sun floods its lilac and pink, kindling the waves, the
draperies of the goddess, the wet flanks of the horses, and suffusing the whole painting with
its delicate, bright warmth, which is yet kept too cool for gaudiness by the twilight of the moon.

While this canvas was being unpacked in Washington last winter, Mr. Elliott was exhibiting
in Boston his portrait of his mother-in-law, Mrs. Julia Ward Howe. It was begun and nearly
finished at Newport four or five years ago; but Mr. Elliott has not cared to complete it, for
during the interval the "Grand Old Lady" has considerably changed in appearance. She is now
more than ninety years old. When the sittings began, Mrs. Howe had just recovered from an illness,
and could read or talk only for brief periods. Mostly she sat looking out of her window at
a bird which had a nest in a nearby tree. In this attitude, the eyes raised, the face quiet
yet alert, the artist has caught her; calm, patient, but with one hand characteristically clenched
on the arm of her chair, showing a touch of hidden force and commanding will. She is dressed
in light green. The background is an indistinguishable brown. Her eyes have that very delicate
light blue of advanced age, wistful yet prophetic. The skin, too, has the rare ivory delicacy
of old age, of old age gently dealt with and protected. The light is unobtrusive yet luminous--morning
sunshine. The picture is utterly simple; the more so for its touch of incompleteness. The masses
are broad, artless. It is tender, reverential, a sweet and solemn glorification of old age,
and of the old age of a distinguished spirit.

And at the exhibition in Boston one of the women visitors complained to the artist: "But you
know, Mr. Elliott, when Mrs. Howe comes to the Woman's Club, she always looks so bright and
animated, and always has something smart to say!"

To which the artist replied: "No doubt, my dear lady. But I was not painting a president of
the New England Woman's Club, but the author of `The Battle Hymn of the Republic.' "

Queen Margherita of Italy made a truer comment when she saw the portrait in Mr. Elliott's studio
in Rome. "That portrait deserves to go into any collection in the world," she said, "not because
it is a good portrait of a distinguished old woman, but because it is a portrait of Old age
as it ought to be."

Can it be that a mere Continental Queen is a better judge of art than a member of a Boston
Woman's Club? Such thoughts are very disturbing!

Queen Margherita, ever since she first visited Mr. Elliott's studio in Rome ten years ago,
has been his warm patron. It was for her he made his well known silver-point portrait of the
late King Humbert, which she carries with her on all journeys. It has, indeed the boldness
of line inseparable from good silver-point drawing, where a stroke once laid on is indelible
and no "working over" is possible. When "Diana of the Tides " was exhibited in Rome in February,
1909, the Queen was one of the first visitors. She was not the first, the Chinese Minister
arriving ahead of all others, on the stroke of ten--the opening hour--attended by all his suite,
to signify his profound Celestial veneration for the Fine Arts. The Queen, seeing the picture,
expressed delight and volunteered to tell her son, King Victor Emmanuel, about it.

A few days later, at seven thirty in the morning, there came a knocking at the door, with the
announcement, "A message from the King."

The King, said the messenger, would follow in an hour. Presumably there was some hurry of preparation
in the Elliott family. A New York artist, at any rate, at seven thirty A. M. would be in no
condition to receive a crowned head--or any other! Promptly at eight thirty--punctuality being
a royal virtue--King Victor Emmanuel drove up in a motor car with two aides. He remained half
an hour. Being fond of horses, he found much in the picture genuinely to interest him. The
artist accompanied the monarch to the door of his car, where he thanked him for the honor of
his visit.

"Not at all," said the King, in his excellent English. "My mother told me to come."

Which shows, at least, that the Fifth Commandment is honored in Italy.

The twenty-four pastel drawings made to illustrate Mrs. Anderson's fairy tale, "The Great Sea
Horse," were also exhibited in America last winter. Made immediately after Mr. Elliott's heartbreaking
labor on the rocking soil of Sicily, they are none the less quiet, childish, and fanciful in
their charm. Only one of them might have been inspired by the turning over in his uneasy sleep
of the giant buried beneath Etna--the picture of the naked giant sitting on a headland and
emptying his hot pipe ashes into the sea, where they form a volcano. The grim, grotesque old
fellow is carefully drawn, with a fine rhythm of line in the seated limbs. His bulk dwarfs
the headland, and his head and shoulders grow blue and pale in the sky. One questions why the
ashes do not fall farther out to sea; they seem to lie in the shallow tide water on the beach.
Barring this note of smallness, the picture is a true grotesque in miniature.

Mr. Elliott also works in genuine miniature. He has painted several portraits--of Mrs. Potter
Palmer, the Chanler sisters of New York, and many more. He has painted landscapes, as well.
Professor Barrett Wendell possesses a charming example. Most recently he has been engaged on
a large mural decoration, best fitted, perhaps, for a music room, showing Pan seated on a tree
trunk by a lake, making into a pipe the broken reeds in his hand after Syrinx eluded him. No
horizon line shows. Pan and his tawny leopard skin (his automobile coat, the artist calls it)
tell against the high purple banks across the lake. The god is making the best of his loss--making
music of it, in fact. He was the eternal boy, before Mr. Barrie rediscovered him and surnamed
him Peter.

And there is something of the eternal boy about John Elliott. He plays with a paint box on
a fifty-foot ceiling or a twenty-seven- foot end wall, turns aside to paint a miniature on
ivory, drops all his paints when a great national calamity comes and is converted into an architect
overnight, building a whole town in four months and making it as beautiful as he can in the
process, though the "practical" man would say that utility alone was demanded; and then, when
this work is over, turning blithely back again to make pictures for a fairy book. He is strong,
through his fresh imagination, to combine ancient myth with modern science in a huge decorative
canvas, to reflect the dignity and loveliness and spiritual power of an exalted old age, to
do practical work in a practical crisis--and to joy, at the same time, with the moon baby dancing
on the beach!

"Jack Elliott," they will tell you who know him, "has an artistic temperament." Well, if this
be the artistic temperament, what a pity there is not more of it in the world! It is not the
temperament that is self-centered, whining, ineffectual. It is the temperament that does whatever
comes to hand as well as it can, for sheer love of the task, and of beautiful workmanship that
through imagination wins to sympathy, and through imagination grasps the opportunity to do
practical work beautifully, where others would only do it practically. It is the temperament
eternally boyish and buoyant, which is on the side of sweetness and light.

Perhaps it is not what the world means by the artistic temperament. But it is the temperament
of the true artist. "Never do a pot-boiler," said Mr. Elliott to a young painter the other
day. "Let one of your best things go to boil the pot." In these words is a rule of conduct
that all of us--artists or artisans brokers or clerks, men or women--might well walk by toward
the light of a more beautiful and cooperative society. 

*****************************************************************
 Vol. XXIII  No.2 AUGUST      1910

THE HEATHEN {page 193-204}

By JACK LONDON

Author of " The German, the two Americans, and myself bought up all the Scotch whisky and proceeded
to drink. Then try to imagine the multitudinous impact of mud-banks--no, it is beyond me. Otoo
knew nothing of scientific boxing. And if there be no place for him in that Kingdom, then will
I have none of it.

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.2 AUGUST      1910

THE QUESTION "HOW?"  {page 205-208}

By WILLIAM HANNA THOMSON, M.D., LL.D.

Author of " So we would now discuss what the being, Man, reveals about himself by his eternal
question, "How?"

As language is a lofty endowment and, moreover, on this earth exclusively human, we would lead
up to the subject by stating what the parts of speech are.

According to the Arabs, who surpass all other peoples in the study of language--for they claim
that they have twenty-five thousand books on grammar in their literature--the parts of speech
are three; and, as one of their old scholars states, this threefold division of speech is not
confined to one language, but is universal, because human speech does not differ with the difference
of human tongues. These three parts are: first, nouns--the names of things; second, verbs--the
names of events; and, third, the partitives--or the words which express the relations of things
to events. Thus the most abstract of verbs, "to be," refers to an event; for when a man says,
"I am," he is mentioning an event in the history of the universe which did not occur till he
existed.

This division, however, necessitates that the adjectives should be regarded as nouns; and so
they are classed in all Semitic languages, as the Hebrew, the Arabic, the Syriac, etc. The
writers of the New Testament, therefore, could not write Greek without continually falling
into their native Hebrew idiom; so that if the passages were translated literally, some modern
expositions would have to be much modified. Thus, "Who created the worlds by the word of his
power" means "Who created the worlds by his powerful word." "The body of our humiliation" is
"our humiliating body." "Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?" is "from this deadly
body," as the context of the passage clearly shows. In each case the second noun is the adjective
modifying the first.

Moreover, the most interesting deduction from this division of the parts of speech is that
the partitives are far the highest in rank among words, because they express pure relations,
which only the royal mind of man can so distinctly perceive as to make words for them. Thus,
a dog can learn his own name, and understand the verbs "go" and "come," especially with the
imperative tone of his master; but he could never understand the words "outgoing year" or "incoming
year."

Prepositions belong to the partitives, and, with different prepositions attached to one and
the same thing or noun, the human mind can step through the vast regions of thought as easily
as the ether can vibrate through space. Thus the Latin scriptio, the name of a thing, a writing,
gives us the following changes, according to the preposition: An Ascription is not a CONscription,
by any means; nor does a conscription mean anything like a DEScription; nor is that the same
thing with an INscription; nor when we PREscribe for a man are we PROscribing him; and every
one of us knows, when the agent of a worthy cause enters, what the difference is between a
SUBscription and a SUPERscription.

To the adverbs, however, must be given the preeminence among all human words. But even here
there are gradations in rank. Thus the adverb, "Why?" may be nothing but a question of curiosity,
and hence its idea may be suggested to an inquisitive monkey. But it is not so with the question,
"How?" "Why?" may be answered by an affirmation, but "How?" can be answered only by a demonstration.
Now, as our object is to call speech to witness as to what is in man, or, in other words, what
man is himself, we will proceed to analyze the testimony of this word, "How?"

      "HOW" FINDS A PLANET

First: It does not refer to anything which appears on the surface. Instead, it seeks to find
the hidden and the unknown by following up one clue after another. When the astronomer, Leverrier,
found that the planets Saturn and Uranus did not come to time, he asked himself how that could
be. Meanwhile, the answer to any number of "hows" must have been previously demonstrated by
him and by other astronomers before the movements of these great and distant heavenly bodies
could be shown as not according to the clock-like regularity of planets in their courses. He
reasoned that only one probable "how" could account for the facts; namely, another planet of
just such a size and weight, and moving at just such a distance, would suffice thus to hold
back Saturn and Uranus in their orbits. And so he calculated how large this heavenly body was,
how heavy it was, and then just where it was, until, by this human but sure detective system,
astronomers caught sight of Neptune--after Leverrier told them where to look for it.

But, after all, to decide how the vast heavenly bodies move in space is easy compared with
finding out how to make a sewing machine go. For a needle to thread itself and then rapidly
proceed to sew without the help of fingers calls for the discovery of more "hows" than are
needed to explain Laplace's "Mecanique celeste." Mass and gravity suffice for the one, but
only a Yankee's mind could have created the other.

We have now come to a great word--"create." A creator is a being who gives origin to things
which would not exist but for his intelligent purpose and design. Now, man has simply filled
this earth with his own creations, all due to himself alone and to none other, and all again
by pondering the question, "How?" He began, for instance, by putting a hole through a flint
hatchet, and ended with putting a hole through the Alps. In this last, an engineer stood at
the foot of the great mountain and asked himself how he could tunnel it for nations to pass
through. He saw a small stream dashing down the mountainside and at once found his desired
"how," for he made that stream work big drills by compressed air, till the everlasting rocks
themselves had to give in.

But man is an infinite creator--by which we mean that his creative capacity is limitless and
inexhaustible. No sooner does he create one thing than he turns to create another thing totally
different from it. A locomotive thundering past with a long train has no resemblance to a telegraph
line, nor that, in turn, to a great printing press. Man coolly sets at defiance the most fundamental
laws of physical science.

Thus, a heavy load of passengers, sitting in no less heavy cars, if put on a smooth inclined
plane must slide down faster and faster to the bottom, or Vulcan would be confounded. But man
strings a thin wire overhead, which would snap instantly if the load gave it one pull; but
something which, some "how," man causes to pass along that wire, makes the trolley with its
live freight go uphill faster than a horse can run.

      THE ETHER ENSLAVED

And what about that mysterious ether? It can neither be seen, heard, felt, handled, smelt,
nor tasted. Nevertheless, man has learned so much about its "how" that he is turning it into
as menial a servant, obedient to his wishes, as he has made of electricity, the cause of sublime
thunder; for man bids the ether carry his stock quotations or any other message of his to the
ends of the earth.

These are great doings, but really no greater than his small doings, for the least of these
is just as impossible for other earthly creatures as are an Alpine tunnel or a battleship.
A large convention of chimpanzees could not combine to make one pin or one sleeve-button, if
they tried.

All this is because man is native to the world of relations, which no other earthly beings
are, because they cannot go beyond the information provided by their bodily senses. Man, on
the contrary, gains infinitely more knowledge than his bodily senses can afford. By studying
the relations of abstract points to abstract lines, he becomes a mathematician. Following up
the many "hows" of chemistry, he talks about molecules, atoms, and ions as fluently as: if
he had seen or handled them.

      MAN IS INVISIBLE

This explains how man can and does create. Every great invention existed first in the mind
of the inventor. So the great engineer who made the Brooklyn Bridge never had to handle one
of the materials used in its construction, for every stone, wire, and bolt was provided for
in that engineer's mind before any part of that tremendous mass of matter could be seen on
the earth.

Moreover, this great human creator is as invisible as the Divine Creator Himself. People are
continually saying that they will not believe in a thing till they can see it, thus pinning
their faith to the testimony of that one of our senses which makes more mistakes than do all
our other senses put together. When a man six feet high is a mile off, it says that he is only
six inches high. The eye can see nothing of the vast microscopic living world which lies within
six inches of the eyeball, and so we have had to invent a microscope to make up for this serious
deficiency. But what would the Russian Witte not have given if he could have telegraphed to
St. Petersburg that he had actually SEEN the Japanese Komura while they were talking about
making peace at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and that he knew just what the courteous Jap thought
and proposed! All that he saw was the Asiatic's smiling face and other things of his outside.
Every human personality belongs to the real world, the world of the Unseen, and cannot be known
except as he chooses to reveal himself.

      BRAIN NOT THE MAN

Some persons might object here that the brain is both visible and tangible in man, and that
man is in his brain, and, therefore, the brain is man. Medical science, however, shows that
the brain no more thinks than the hand and foot do, but is simply the instrument of the invisible
thinker. The proof of this is that we have two brains, just as we have two eyes and two ears,
but that only one of our two brain hemispheres is the instrument for talking, thinking, or
knowing. Which one of the two hemispheres will be the mental one will depend altogether on
how it has been TAUGHT by the invisible thinker, who will begin to teach the left hemisphere
if he is right-handed, or the right hemisphere if he is left-handed. He will leave the other
hemisphere in each case wholly speechless or thoughtless, and concerned only with the business
of governing the muscles or receiving the bodily sensations of its corresponding side. If brain
matter really itself thought, we should have two thinking and speaking hemispheres--and this
the first case of loss of speech by an apoplectic clot would disprove.

"By thy words thou shalt be judged." This means that man is to be judged by his own creations,
for it is only men who create words. By their words they show what is in them, both intellectually
and morally. We have demonstrated that the being who can ask the question, "How?" naturally
belongs to the universe. Already he knows what stuff inconceivably distant stars are made of;
and the "how" to know that he found in a small glass prism.

         THE MORAL "HOW"

It would seem, therefore, as if it were by some temporary accident that he is held to this
little material speck of matter called the earth. And this impression grows upon us as we study
the greatest facts of human life. We enter this world knowing nothing and not nearly so well
equipped to take care of ourselves as are other animals. There is no helplessness like that
of a babe. But wonderfully early he begins to ask the question, "How?" A little boy will ask
more questions in a day than his father will ask in a week; nor can he be stopped or deceived,
because the question, "Why?" you can answer as you please, but not "How?"

He who can ask "How?" can be a learner as long as he exists, whether here or hereafter. In
his life here he may become either a great financier or a great statesman, but certainly not
either unless he knows how. Any education, in fact, is simply learning how.

What is true in the intellectual world is still more true in the moral world. Whenever a question
bearing on morals enters, every  one should stop and ask, "How?" A mistake here is like entering
the wrong gate in a large railroad station. The longer you stay in its corresponding train,
the farther it will take you from where you should go. For example, there are some who say
that the human will is not free, but that our actions are all, in the last analysis, according
to our make-up. In other words, we are machines which must go as they are made to go. There
is, therefore, no right nor wrong in human conduct, for machines cannot be held responsible
for conduct or the way they go--there can be no sinful automobile or wicked windmill.

According to these reasoners, therefore, when human law punishes one who has robbed a widow
of all she had, or has seduced the daughter of a friend, or committed a cold-blooded murder,
the law is wholly illogical in punishing him, because, since he is a machine, his punishment
is like throwing a clock out of a window if it does not keep good time. The only answer to
such a talker should be, "Get out!" with particular emphasis on the "out."

----WHO WOULD BE A YOUNG LADY

By SARAH N. CLEGHORN

1830

Sister walks past the garden wall 
 In monstrous hoop, and slippers small,
 And polonaise, and sash, and all, 
      To join the Dorcas Circle.

She'll sit indoors, and stitch, and moon,
 And sip her tea, and clink her spoon,
 This whole blue, breezy afternoon!
       For so do all Young Ladies.

Come, Poll, come, Bet! Escaped from school,
 We'll wade across the shallows cool
 Of Roaring Tom and Silver Pool,
       And climb the pines of Randal.

Far up the mountain path we'll go,
 And leave the Raven Rocks below,
 And creep inside the caves of snow,
       To hear their echoes thunder!

Let briers scratch, let brambles tear
 Our oft-patched frocks--we shall not care:
 Green are the woods, and fresh the air;
       Then who would be a Young Lady?

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.2 AUGUST      1910

INSTEAD OF AN ARTICLE {page 209-214}  About Pittsburg and, Incidentally, about Editing a Magazine

Important articles in magazines of the type of "COLLIER'S," "MCCLURE'S," the "AMERICAN," and
"EVERYBODY'S," like plays, are rewritten rather than written. Too begin with, there must be
the idea, then to find the man or woman best able to embody it. That settled, the author must
steep himself in his subject. When he acquires mastery, his findings are written down and submitted
to the editor. This may take months; it often requires years.

It has happened that the editor did not know what he wanted until he read this first draft.
Now he has the subject spread before him by an authority. His associates all read it and criticise.
Sometimes that first draft is flawless, but most often it is returned to the author with direction
for reconstruction. The process may be repeated half a dozen times. Finally the manuscript
is satisfactory, which means that it is valuable, simply expressed, and readable. It is in
shape for publication. It is put into type and sent around to outside experts who are the representative
authorities on the subject.

In these days a magazine can afford to have its conclusions disputed, but its facts must be
incontrovertible. Perhaps the trouble the big publications take to be right--and that means
square and just, as well as accurate--explains such prestige and influence as they now enjoy
in America.

At a women's club gathering in Mississippi, recently, Harris Dickson told his audience something
about an article of his that had recently appeared in "EVERYBODY'S." He explained that a manuscript
written by another man had been sent him to put in shape. The facts were there, and the moral,
but the treatment was technical. It lacked carrying power. Dickson knew nothing of the other
author, and so proceeded to get up the subject at first hand. He took not one of the facts
for granted. After three months he returned the revised manuscript to the magazine. It was
sent back, with specific directions for rewriting. In due course he again remailed it to the
editor, who congratulated him on his achievement--for that is what it was. Then the article,
having attained a satisfactory form (it was on Fraternal Insurance), was sent round among the
experts. The first man who read it was a high official of one of the old line insurance companies,
but a hearty believer in the fraternal system. He returned it with approval and an elaborate
criticism. Then it was submitted to the chief insurance commissioner of a western state--the
undoubted political authority on the subject. The approval and criticisms of both men, with
the manuscript, were again forwarded to Mr. Dickson. The necessary corrections having been
incorporated, the manuscript was ready for the printer. To make assurance doubly sure, proofs
were sent out to prominent officials of leading fraternal organizations, who returned them
with most commendatory letters. And then, and only then, did it appear in the magazine.

Mr. Dickson's audience, doubtless under the impression that magazines are produced by editors
out of the contributions sent them by mail, expressed surprise that so much time, effort, and
money should be devoted to what seemed a comparatively unimportant subject. Yet it involved
a matter that concerned five million men and their families, and a tremendous controversy.
Its appearance has made the controversy even keener, and of course the enemies of sanity and
good order in fraternalism are now hurling bolts at us. However, when we have done our part
and know we are right, we stay put.

Mr. Dickson told part of what to us is a familiar story. In this instance he knew nothing of
the time and trouble the author and ourselves had taken just to get together the facts and
place them in the right perspective. We began on this particular article in November, 1906,
and during the interval it was being worked at or over by one of some dozen men. The same is
true of most of our big series. "The Woman's Invasion" represented two and a half years of
work. Fifteen months elapsed between the delivery of Judge Lindsey's first manuscript and the
beginning of publication in the magazine. Trained writers, the best men we know about, are
out investigating and gathering the facts for the articles we will print a year hence. This
is the process of magazine making to-day. It is not peculiar to "EVERYBODY'S"; it is the rule
with "COLLIER'S," "MCCLURE'S," the AMERICAN, and SUCCESS."

      INSTEAD OF AN ARTICLE

This is all by way of introduction to the story of an article that was not written. About the
time the Pittsburg flare-up began to show itself in the papers, it occurred to us that some
exposition of the situation there would be of value and interest to our readers. Before going
about it, we debated it very carefully. Some of us in the office (and this magazine is edited
by all of us) were fairly familiar with the subject, and we believed it would subserve no useful
purpose to tackle it along the "Shame of the Cities" lines. We agreed that the way to approach
Pittsburg was to consider what had happened there, not as a sporadic outburst, but as an economic
symptom. Whom could we get that was far enough from the controversies involved to treat the
subject objectively and with a big perspective? Brand Whitlock. The Mayor of Toledo knows more
about cities and their governments, and the evils that arise within them, than any other man,
and he can write--with knowledge, with sympathy, with clarity. Also he knew Pittsburg. So we
telegraphed to find if he was free to write an article, and, when he replied in the affirmative,
the following letter was sent him:

                  April 1, 1910. DEAR MR. WHITLOCK:

The article we want is on Pittsburg. It is neither our purpose nor our desire merely to "muckrake"
Pittsburg or any other city. The eruption there is typical of similar conditions in other great
civic centers throughout the country, and it seems to us it might be made the text of a diagnosis
of the whole municipal problem in America.

Here are a few thoughts that occur to me which might be represented:

We have come to realize that the real trouble in our country is Privilege. Big business, in
its ruthless pursuit of results, has the ultimate responsibility for the ills that confront
us in political, social, and commercial life. The graft scandals, the bank defalcations, etc.,
are simply symptoms of internal disorders. They are the eruptions of the disease.

Pittsburg might be called the typical get-rich-quick community. Its great wealth is based on
the abundant coal and iron with which the Creator loaded its environment. Down on those deposits
fasten thousands of Americans seized with the mania of money-making. They coin the coal and
iron into millions. They work feverishly; they work their men furiously. It's a mad, frenzied
scramble for success and sensation. To get rich quicker, they exact excessive protection from
Congress--first to prop up infant industries, then to consolidate abnormal profits. If the
government undertakes to deny their demands, they bluster first, then intrigue, then intimidate.
Mills are closed down; the "prosperity" of the country is threatened, lobbies are organized,
corruption funds subscribed, until Congress succumbs and new "jokers" are written into steel
tariffs.

In the meantime a huge city is upreared. But this city is run for the benefit of its industries,
not for the comfort of its inhabitants. Street railway, gas, electric corporations are organized,
ostensibly to serve the community, actually enabling a greedy group to make more money. Again,
what cannot be gained by request is won by force and guile.

Over and over again the various processes are repeated, until you have built up a sort of City
Monstrous, dedicated to machinery, in which all the men and many of the women are just machines,
and there is no ideal save that of feverish industrial adventure and accomplishment. Power--blind,
ruthless, marvel-working, bending backs and bodies to its will--is Pittsburg's god, and Success
its divine attribute Success that spells Gold, the instrument of exploitation and sensation.
What wonder that weaker men, confronted by the colossal rewards of industrial conquest, are
frenzied with the gold fever? In the absence of communal patriotism, graft becomes an incident.
Graft and greed are the minor watchwords of success. Get money, anyway--but get it. Is it surprising
that cashiers graft, that aldermen graft, that city officials graft, that there's a very pandemonium
of graft? Isn't it the way the other fellows get rich?

All of a sudden the poison clogs the pores, and the infection blotches the surface--and every
one is horrified. The great manufacturers, the great merchants, the great lawyers--high priests
of the Power God--throw up their hands. Can such things be? Dreadful, horrible!--blindly oblivious
of their own responsibility for the epidemic.

More startling still to the conquerors were the pitiless revelations of the Survey, exhibiting
in mathematical terms the cost to the human factor of this monstrous material success. Hordes
of anaemic, emaciated men and women, exhausted by long hours of toil, piled thick in wretched
hovels, underfed, half-clothed, dragging out a miserable existence unrelieved by leisure or
rest or recreation--the Juggernaut toll of efficiency--of the passion for results at any price.
Against this horror, what avails Pittsburg's panorama of splendid churches, of lordly palaces,
of noble art museums, of great orchestras, richly endowed educational institutions--the patriotic
tribute of the conquerors to civilization? What is this boasted civilization of ours worth--not
Pittsburg's only, for Pittsburg is an incident--if it be reared on the wrecked and depleted
bodies of men at its base?

There would then be the opportunity in the article to suggest the regenerated Pittsburg--all
this furious energy hitherto devoted to material success turned to social betterment and decent
government. The turn of the worker comes. The conquerors, having learned that they cannot take
greedily what belongs to a community, and find happiness, turn magnificently to the rescue
of their own downtrodden. The old question--what does it profit a man if he gains the whole
world and loses his soul?--has been burned into Pittsburg humanity once again.

For several years the newspapers have carried stories about these successive scandals in Pittsburg,
until people have in a measure become confused as to how they connect, whether all are really
parts of the same story. I doubt if the average man who reads the article in the morning paper
has a clear grasp of what has been going on, and he can't discover it without hunting back
through the files. Once we published an article by Owen Wister about the Capitol frauds in
Pennsylvania, after the newspapers had been printing countless columns on the subject for months,
and it was one of the most successful articles we have used, because of the way it crystallized
and interpreted the whole occurrence.

A similar service is here suggested. Write the story of Pittsburg dramatically; crystallize
the big exposures of the last few years through which bankers and politicians have been going
to prison, culminating with the present crisis in the City Council; bring out the economic
significance of these occurrences to Pittsburg, to the United States. Such an article will
help all of us to see where we are "at," will help develop civic consciousness in New York,
Chicago, San Francisco. It is immensely well worth doing.

I'm not dictating your article. What is written here is purely
suggestive. You must tell what you see and find in your own way.
You will, anyway. You know most of the facts. You are in touch
with the balance. We'll help to get material. If you will, you
can put up an article that the country will read. We'd like copy
as soon as possible.          
                       Sincerely,             
                                  J. O'H. COSGRAVE,              

                                                 Editor.

Mr. Whitlock, replied, expressing willingness to handle the subject along the lines indicated,
and asked for whatever assistance we could render him. William Hard, a member of our editorial
force, had spent some time in Pittsburg, acquiring material for his "Woman's Invasion," and
he recommended J. J. Nordman, a reporter of that city, as the best man to equip Mr. Whitlock
with the historical details of the exposure. He would thus have immediately a succinct, up-to-date
statement of the case for his use as a skeleton.

Mr. Nordman was willing to help, and soon after got into communication with Mr. Whitlock. Here
is an account of his service, which was accompanied by a letter from District Attorney Blakeley,
certifying to his reliability and knowledge of the facts.

                                           May 10, 1910. 
HON. BRAND WHITLOCK, Toledo, Ohio. 
Dear Sir:

Mr. Cosgrave has asked me to forward you matter bearing on the Pittsburg graft expose and such
clippings as I may have.

I shall weave the facts together with no effort towards literary form, but rather in letter
form, and present it to you not later than Monday next.

Enclosed please find what I have termed a "Retrospect," being a review of the political conditions
leading to and making possible the present expose.

Such clippings as I have will be forwarded with matter. I enclose letter from Mr. Blakeley. 

Very respectfully,                    J. JEROME NORDMAN.

After that we waited, rather impatiently, it must be confessed, for Whitlock's manuscript.
After the passage of other admonitory letters and telegrams, we received the following letter.
We print it "instead of an article." In our opinion, it is an extraordinarily valuable summary
of the whole subject of municipal misrule. It goes far and beyond Pittsburg, and deep into
economic, social, and national conditions of which that city is but an instance and an illustration.
And, moreover, it sets forth just how such an article, could we find the right man to do it,
should be written. Here it is:

         Executive Offices
          THE CITY OF TOLEDO                      3 June, 1910.
JOHN O'HARA COSGRAVE, Esquire,Editor 
EVERYBODY'S MAGAZINE. 
DEAR MR. COSGRAVE:

The Pittsburg story is big, too big and too important and too significant to do at second hand.
I have had a valuable correspondence with Mr. Nordman, and he has most kindly put his information,
and in clear form, at my disposal. He has sent me his scrapbook of newspaper clippings, and
he has written me at length and in detail of the various exposures and prosecutions. I have
made inquiries, too, from friends, and I have been thinking over the story that you propose.
But it won't go, and I have concluded that it ought not to go in that form; and that is the
only form in which it is possible for me now to tell it.

I find just what I expected to find, or I find the familiar symptoms of what I expected to
find. The intelligent answers to the several questions I put to Mr. Nordman after our first
few letters are exactly what I expected them to be. One city is all cities; and all exhibit
the same effects, proceeding from the same causes. Look about you, anywhere, and if you see
graft, and bribery, and corruption, you'll find a bi-partisan machine controlling nominations
and elections to municipal offices, and representing the few who consider themselves privileged
to exploit the people by means of franchises in public utilities, etc. It's as easy as it is
for a physician to tell what ails a sallow and emaciated Southern "cracker" who shivers with
chills one day, and burns up with fever the next.

And so, in Pittsburg, I found the usual Republican machine with its big boss, the usual Democratic
machine and its little boss, and the two, as usual, working together, the Democratic boss and
his tools rewarded by a few small offices on "bi-partisan" boards, and the like; then the street
railway system and other public utility corporations which these bosses represent, and for
which they procure franchises. And after this, the "better element," the "eminently respectable"
citizens, supporting this combination, enjoying the fruits of its labor, and influencing the
business interests of the city in the way that gives such perfect exemplification of the evils
of class government in our cities--the same, old, sordid story.

The revelations, as they are called--though by this time they should have ceased to be revelations,
and have become "recognitions" in this country--made by the newspaper clippings before me are
the expected indications of the deeper, underlying causes. The superficial observer sees in
them merely a corrupt council; and, from the fact that councilmen have taken bribes, he makes
the daring deduction that some one gave them the bribes; he sees that councilmen have been
grafting, and then is naively astonished by the revelation that some business men higher up,
although not very much higher up, have been caught and publicly disgraced. He sees, too, a
brave and fearless prosecutor who is sending these men to prison; and there are the usual predictions
that out of all this there is to come to Pittsburg "good" government--that is, government by
honest men, to be aided, perhaps, by the adoption of the commission plan. That is to say, we
have here the subject only in its personal aspect, and not in its institutional, sociological,
economic aspect.

      THE SAME OLD STORY OF GRAFT

Now, to be frank, the story of the grafting doesn't interest me much, though it is as saddening
and depressing as ever; and I can't work up enough enthusiasm for that feature of it to write
anything that would be worth your while to print, or worth anybody's while to read. Toward
the subject I feel the same apathy that was felt toward the ordinary newspaper account of some
casualty by Thoreau, who would not read, as you will remember, the accounts--for example--of
crimes and accidents, because, having once grasped the principle, he felt it unnecessary to
multiply, indefinitely, instances of that principle. The story of Pittsburg, so far as it has
been related to me, is merely the old, squalid story of municipal graft. I have the names and
the dates in an orderly and logical way--who were sent to the penitentiary, and when, and for
what particular crime, and what the judge said in pronouncing sentence, etc. All of this has
been told over and over and over again in the newspapers and magazines during the last few
years; the only difference lies in the names and the dates and the place. Indeed, Pittsburg's
story in this respect is hardly as interesting as the old stories--it is, if anything, more
commonplace, more squalid.

But behind all this, there is, of course, a story, and a big one, as you unerringly divined.
Reading between the lines of the dry recital of facts with which I have been provided, and
peering a little way behind the scenes, I come, I think, upon the real story, the one that
some one should write, the one that some one should print.

The first chapter, perhaps, is the story of the old political machines in Pittsburg, and of
that interesting, and--in certain elemental, human senses--strong personality, Chris Magee,
the boss--who has a monument.

Then, there is another personality, of a different sort, in Blakeley, the district attorney.
My accounts are meager and bald, and yet I catch glimpses of a striking personality. This district
attorney, I should imagine, is a man with the best ideals of the legal profession, honest,
capable, sincere, and unafraid; a man, withal, who knows life and politics and can play the
game without being soiled in its many contacts. What draws me to him, even at this distance,
is that he seems to have little of the Puritan in him, as there is too apt to be in prosecutors
who convict, and push their victims within prison doors. And he is another chapter of the story.
But I don't know Blakeley; I can't describe him, I can't interpret him, and I haven't the time
nor the opportunity just now to become acquainted with him.

Then there is the story of the organization of the Civic League, or whatever they call it,
and especially the story of its operations. These good citizens, it seems, hired a detective
to come and run their men down for them. To me the private detective is not the most inspiring
and heroic figure on our modern scene; but that is neither here nor there. One of these detectives
evidently has not only ability but versatility, and in an interesting manner combines the occupation
of a detective with the profession of an evangelist. It was not, however, he who worked the
old panel game--much as a black paramour might work it down in the Tenderloin--on certain councilmen,
led them into a trap, and then exposed them--an achievement in confused morals that has not
been permitted to go unapplauded. There are those, of course, in every city who could think
fondly and smugly of themselves as doing, in this way, preeminently the will of God; and such
deeds not infrequently make men self-righteous.

But, of course, I may be mistaken about the present application of this generalization, and,
as I should like to be just, or, what is better, to be charitable, I should hesitate, on such
unsupported conclusions, to write it down for the public eye. There are, of course, those who
with logic can justify the larger end by the smaller means, and thus excuse certain deviations
from the straight line of the moral ideal, and thereby hold one back from the temptation to
divide his moral indignation about equally between pursuer and pursued. But, if he claimed
one's sympathy for the pursuers, he could not prevent one's pity from going to the ruined councilmen.

      THE SHOCK TO CARNEGIE

But beyond all this--and here I think I touch on the real story--there is the peculiar temper
and tendency of Pittsburg. Pittsburg is an artistic center; fortunes have been lavished in
endowing schools and universities and palaces for art, on symphonies and oratorios. All the
expressions of a new, ruling plutocracy are easily discernible here, as in all such epochs
of society recorded in history; just, for instance, as Ferrero describes them in the last phases
of the Roman Republic. And when Carnegie returns, he sheds tears and wrings his hands because
of the corruption that has been exposed, and he fails, as many in Pittsburg seem to fail, to
note the necessary, if subtle, relation that must exist between all this corruption and debauchery
between all this art and music, and--shall I say?--the tariff on steel.

This, however, isn't all; though this is part. Pittsburg is a moral town; the most moral, in
the conventional sense, in all America. She won't even allow the kids to play baseball on a
back lot on Sunday. A woman, an old friend of mine who lives in Pittsburg, said: "I think it
very unfortunate that the Survey was published. It overlooks Pittsburg's good points. For instance,
Pittsburg has more churches than any city of its size in America. More people of our class
go to church than in any place I ever saw; more money is given to charity. People just pour
out of their houses and into the churches on Sunday morning." She was quite serious--and she
expressed Pittsburg, or the ruling class of Pittsburg, exactly.

Now I don't mean to say that Pittsburg is especially hypocritical; but she does seem to be
pharisaical. The article about Pittsburg should find its beginnings, perhaps, away back in
the days of scholasticism, and come down through the moss hags of Scotland; and its title should
be "Pious Pittsburg," or something like that. Written properly--if I am right--it would be
an eloquent exposition of phariseeism at its apotheosis.

      THE REAL STORY OF PITTSBURG

Now I can't write this, because I haven't the evidence to prove what I see, or think I see.
All I have is the mere outline--and the outline applies, as I have said, to most cities. What
one should have is the color, the detail, the thousand and one little things in the way of
personality--you know what I mean; all that which is necessary to "lend artistic verisimilitude
to an otherwise bald and unconvincing narrative." (I wish I were in New York to-night! I'd
go to the Casino and see the revival of "The Mikado.") The Pittsburg story can't be written,
and it should not be written, without this; and to do it properly one would have to spend much
time in Pittsburg and become saturated with the atmosphere of the place; and when he emerged,
if he ever did emerge, he would be ready to undertake this rather stupendous study in psychology.
I do not feel at all equipped for this task, and no amount of material without the personal
contact could equip me for this service. With my material, I could only write the old and squalid
story of a rather commonplace exposure of municipal grafting, and that wouldn't be worth while.

The story of Pittsburg would be all that the story of any city is--as I have indicated: the
bi-partisan machine, the public service corporation, etc.--but it would be more. It would illustrate
the curious effects of long acceptance of cold, intellectual theories in place of religion,
and how this develops the ability to separate morals and manners; how one's theology needn't
interfere with one's religion, and all that. It would be the story of the union of politics
and business; and the trail would lead up to those proud and insolent aristocracies that are
founded on the purchase of the privilege of making the laws, and down to those stews of horror
where they pay for the privilege of breaking the laws. It would be the story of Chris Magee,
the good-natured, human boss; of Blakeley, the upright prosecutor; of the methods of hired
detectives and the corruption of officialdom. Pittsburg has riches, art, organized charity,
and piety; but she lacks wealth, beauty, social justice, and religion. And sending the "bad"
to prison, and electing the "good" to office, and changing the paper charters of the city,
are not going to work any real reform. They think they'll get "good government" and "civic
righteousness," and then their problems will be solved. This is what they propose to do; this
is all they tell us now, and I can't write a story on that. The story would be as futile as
little legal reforms.

It is, however, consoling and inspiring to believe--yes, to know--that there are in Pittsburg--as
in all cities--hundreds of thousands of decent, virtuous, wholesome, toiling people; that these
make up by far the larger part of the population, too, and that they will save Pittsburg, and
make her as good as she is great. It is a fact stimulating to the imagination and encouraging
to the soul that, in all these stores and shops and mills, there are hard-working, modest,
unknown thousands who are pure and loyal, who are humanity's hope; that even the most stunted
and abused figures out of the Survey give more promise than that class which rides upon their
backs and devours them as it rides.

Good government, efficient government, if by those phrases is meant, as is usually meant, government
by the "good"--whoever they may be!--and the efficient, will not do; it will avail nothing
to Pittsburg or to any city, to substitute for grafters, great or petty, personally honest
men who will legally give away franchises for nothing, instead of bartering them illegally
for big bribes. Pittsburg can't be saved by an aristocracy of the better element, she can be
saved only by democracy--with a very little "d." And she will be saved that way some day, never
fear, though not until all the other cities are similarly saved.

I shall await with interest what you think of my suggestions.    

    Your ever sincere friend,                   
                            BRAND WHITLOCK.

***************************************************************** Vol. XXIII  No.2 AUGUST      1910

THE WOMEN OF TO-MORROW  {page 215-226 part 1.}

By WILLIAM HARD

EDITOR'S NOTE: It is commonly supposed that only the women of poverty are affected by modern
industrial conditions. On the contrary, modern industrial conditions are having their greatest
influence among the women who, before marriage, enjoy wide educational opportunities, and who,
after marriage, enjoy the blessing of partial leisure. It is among these women that economic
developments are producing the profoundest changes in habit of life and in character of mind.
Mr Hard, who will be remembered by all readers of the "Woman's Invasion," has spent two years
in the diligent investigation of this subject, and has acquired an authoritative knowledge of it.

EVERY Jack has his Jill." It is a tender twilight thought, and it more or less settles Jill.

When the Census Man was at work in 1900, however, he went about and counted 2,260,000 American
women who were more than twenty-five years old and who were still unmarried.

It is getting worse (or better) with every passing decade, and out of it is emerging a new
ideal of education for women, an ideal which seems certain to penetrate the whole educational
system of the United States, all the way from the elementary schools to the universities.

The Census Man groups us into age periods. The period from twenty-five to twenty-nine is the
most important matrimonially because it is the one in which most of us get pretty well fixed
into our life work. Out of every 1,000 women in that period, in the year 1890, the Census Man
found 254 who were still unmarried. In 1900, only ten years later, he found 275.

There is not so much processional as recessional about marriage at present. In navigating the
stormy waters of life in the realistic pages of the census reports, it is not till we reach
the comparatively serene, landlocked years from forty-five to fifty-four that we find ourselves
in an age-period in which the number of single women has been reduced to less than ten per
cent. of the total. The rebound from this fact hits education hard. As marriage recedes, and
as the period of gainful work before marriage lengthens, the need of real technical preparation
for that gainful work becomes steadily more urgent, and the United States moves steadily onward
into an era of trained women as well as trained men.

In Boston, at that big new college called Simmons--the first of its kind in the United States--a
regular four-year college of which the aim is to send out every graduate technically trained
to earn her living in a certain specific occupation, there were enrolled last year, besides
some five hundred undergraduate women, some eighty other women who had already earned their
bachelor's degrees at other colleges, such as Bryn Mawr, Wellesley, Smith, Vassar, Radcliffe,
Leland Stanford, and the University of Montana.

These eighty women, after eight years in elementary schools, four years in high school, and
four years in college, were taking one year more in technical school in order to be--what?
Not doctors or lawyers or architects. Not anything in the "learned" professions. But to be
"social workers" in settlements or for charity societies, to be librarians, to be stenographers
and secretaries.

The Bachelor of Arts from Vassar who is going to be a stenographer, and who is taking her year
of graduate study at Simmons, will go to work at the end of the year and then, six months later,
if she has made good, will get from Simmons the degree of Bachelor of Science. At that point
in her life she will have two degrees and seventeen years of schooling behind her. A big background.
But we are beginning to do some training for almost everything.

Did you ever see a school of salesmanship for department-store women employees? You can see
one at the Women's Educational and Industrial Union in Boston. Under the guidance of Mrs. Lucinda
W. Prince, the big department stores of Boston have come to think enough of this school to
send girls to it every morning and to pay them full wages while they take a three months' course.

If you will attend any of the classes, in arithmetic, in textiles, in hygiene, in color and
design, in demonstration sales, in business forms, you will get not only a new view of the
art of selling goods over the counter but a new vision of a big principle in education.

In the class on color, for instance, you will at first be puzzled by the vivid interest taken
by the pupils in the theory of it. You have never before observed in any classroom so intimate
a concern about rainbows, prisms, spectra, and the scientific sources of aesthetic effects.
Your mind runs back to your college days and returns almost alarmed to this unacademic display
of genuine, spontaneous, unanimous enthusiasm toward a classroom study of a theoretical subject.
At last the reason for it works into your mind. These girls are engaged in the practice of
color every afternoon, over hats, ribbons, waists, gloves, costumes. When you begin once to
study a subject which reaches practice in your life, you cannot stop with practice. A law of
your mind carries you on to the philosophy of it.

Right there you see the reason why trade training, broadly contrived, broadens not only technique
but soul, trains not only to earn but to live. "Refined selling," some of the girls call the
salesmanship which they learn in Mrs. Prince's class. They have perceived, to some extent,
the relation between the arts and sciences on the one hand and their daily work on the other.

To a much greater extent has this relation been perceived by the young woman who has taken
the full four-year course in, say, "Secretarial Studies" in Simmons and who, throughout her
English, her German, her French, her Sociology, and her History, as well as throughout her
Typewriting, her Shorthand, and her Commercial Law, has necessarily kept in mind, irradiating
every subject, the light it may throw on the specific work she is to do.

"Ah! There, precisely, is the danger. Every Jack should have his Jill; but if every Jill has
her job, why, there again the wedding day goes receding some more into the future. Let them
stop all this foolishness and get married, as their grandparents did!"

Poor Jack! Poor Jill! They get lectured at all the time about the postponement of marriage,
and they can no more control it than they can control the size of the city of New York. Theoretically,
everybody on Manhattan Island could get up and go away and leave the island vacant. Actually,
it can't and won't be done. Theoretically, we should all of us get married young. We fall in
love young enough. But, actually, we can't get married young, and don't. The reasons are given
later. Meanwhile, just notice, and just ponder, the following facts.

It was in the United States as a whole that the Census Man found 275 out of every 1,000 women
in the twenty-five-to-twenty-nine age--period unmarried. But the United States consists of
developed and undeveloped regions. The cities are the high points of development. Look at the
cities:

In Chicago, out of every 1,000 women in the age period from twenty-five to twenty-nine, there
were 314 who were unmarried. In Denver there were 331. In Manhattan and the Bronx there were
356. In Minneapolis there were 369. In Philadelphia there were 387.

Southern New England, however, is the most industrially developed part of the United States,
the part in which social conditions like those of the older countries of the world are most
nearly reached.

In Fall River, out of every 1,000 women in the twenty-five-to-twenty-nine period, the unmarried
were 391. In New Haven they were 393. In Boston they were 452.

In view of such facts, how can anybody object to the steps which have been taken recently toward
giving the women in the manufacturing trades, as well as the women in the commercial trades,
some little preparation for the work in which they are likely to spend so many years?

In the Manhattan Trade School for Girls, in the last eighteen months of record, the enrollment
was 1,169. More and more the girls in this school are willing to stay in it for a full year.
They have finished at least five grades of the public school, and they are now learning to
be milliners, to be dressmakers, to be operators of electric-power machines, to be workers
in paste and glue in such occupations as candle-shade-making, to be workers with brush and
pencil in furnishing the manufacturing trades with designs.

It is not only a matter of learning to do one particular thing in one particular department
in one particular trade. That they could learn in a factory. It is a matter of getting some
understanding of a whole trade, or getting some kind of a view of how the world is run. Nobody
wants to make people into machines. The object of a good trade school is precisely the reverse.
It is the common school which makes people into machines, when it sends them directly from
books, which do not explain the working world, out into that world to become uncomprehending
appendages to minute processes in infinitely subdivided manufacturing organizations.

A good trade school, besides teaching the technique of the machine, covers what Mrs. Woolman,
the director of the Manhattan School, in her wonderful report of last year called the "middle
ground" between general academic preparatory work on the one hand and practical trade training
on the other. In this "middle ground" the pupil takes simple courses in, for instance, "Civics"
and "Industries."

"Nothing to it," says an irritated manufacturer. "Nothing to it at all! I can't get a good
office boy any more. I can't get anybody, boy or girl, who wants to do anything but just hold
down a job and grab a pay-envelope. Too much schooling! Those inventors and pioneers who came
out of New England and made this country from a hunting-ground into an empire--they didn't
have all this monkey-business in technical schools and trade schools. They just went to work.
That's all. I say send 'em to work young and let 'em sweat. That's what makes men and women."

My dear sir, those early New Englanders were in trade schools from the time they began to crawl
on the floor among their mothers' looms and spinning-wheels. There was hardly a home in early
New England that didn't give a large number of technical courses in which men and women were
always teaching by doing, and the boys and girls were always learning by imitating.

The facts about this are so simple and so familiar that we don't stop to think of their meaning.
When in the spring the wood-ashes from the winter fires were poured into the lye-barrel, and
water was poured in with them, and the lye began to trickle out from the bottom of the barrel,
and the winter's savings of grease were brought out, and the grease and the lye were boiled
together in the big kettle, and mother had finished making the family's supply of soap for
another year, the children had taken not only a little lesson in industriousness, by helping
to make the soap, but a little lesson in industry, too, by observing the technique and organization
of the soap business from start to finish. A boy from that family, even if he never learned
to read or write, might some day have some IDEAS about soap.

The curriculum of an old New England home, so far as presided over by the wife, may be incompletely
suggested as follows:

(N. B. The reader will note the inappropriateness of congratulating the daughters of that home
on their not wanting a job. They had it.)

VEGETABLES DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Gardening.
       "In March and in April, from morning to night,
       In sowing and setting good housewives delight."

2. A course in Medicinal Herbs. Borage, fennel, wild tansy, wormwood, etc. Methods of distillation.
Aqua composita, barberry conserve, electuaries, salves, and ointments. A most important course
for every housewife.

      "A speedy and a sovereign remedy,
       The bitter wormwood, sage and
          marigold."--FLETCHER: "The Faithful Shepherdess."

3. A course in Pickling. In this course pretty nearly everything will be pickled, down to nasturtium-buds
and radish-pods.

PACKING-HOUSE DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Salting Meat in the "powdering" tub.

2. A course in Smoking Hams and Bacons.

3. A course in Pickling Pig's feet and Ears.

4. A course in Headcheese and Sausages.

LIQUOR DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Beer. The making of wort out of barley. The making of harm out of hops. The
fermenting of the two together in barrels.

(This course is not so much given now in New England, but it is an immemorial heritage of the
female sex. Gervayse Markham, in his standard book, "Instructions to a Good Housewife," says
about beer: "It is the work and care of woman, for it is a house-work. The man ought only to
bring in the grain.")

2. A course in Light Drinks, such as Elderberry Wine.

CREAMERY DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Making Butter.

2. A course in Making Cheese, Curdling, breaking curds in basket, shaping in cheese press,
turning and rubbing cheese on cheese ladder.

CLEANING  DEPARTMENT

1. A course in Soapmaking.

2. A course in Making Brooms out of Guinea-wheat Straw.

3. A course in Starch making.

4. A course in Cleaning.

(This last course is very simple. Having manufactured the things to wash and sweep with, the
mere washing and sweeping won't take long.)

FRUIT DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Preserving--everything that can't be pickled.

BREAKFAST FOOD DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Mush and forty kinds of Bread--Rhineinjun (sometimes called Rye and Indian),
bun, bannock, jannock, rusk, etc., etc.

LIGHTING DEPARTMENT.

1. A course in Dips. The melting of tallow or bayberries. The twisting of wicks. The attaching
of wicks to rods. The dipping of them into the melted mass in the kettle. Patience in keeping
on dipping them.

(Pupils taking this course are required to report each morning at five o'clock.)

2. A course in Wax Candles. The use of molds.

These departments might give a girl a pretty fair education of the hand and a pretty fair acquaintance
with the technique and organization of the working world; but we haven't yet mentioned the
biggest and hardest department of all.

Before mentioning it, we call attention to a picture reproduced in this article from a book
published in the year 1493. The book was a French translation of Boccaccio's collection of
stories called "Noble Women." The picture shows a woolen mill being operated in the grounds
of a palace by a queen and her ladies-in-waiting. It summons back the days when even the daughters
of kings and nobles could not help acquiring a knowledge of the working world, because they
were in it.  One of the ladies in-waiting is straightening out the tangled strands of wool
with carding-combs. The other has taken the combed and straightened strands and is spinning
them into yarn. The queen, being the boss, has the best job. She is weaving the yarn into cloth
on a loom.

The daughters of the Emperor Charlemagne, who was a very rich man, learned how to card and
spin and weave. Noble women had to boss all that kind of thing on their estates. They lived
in the very midst of Industry, of Business.

So it was with those early New England women. And therefore, whether well-to-do or indigent,
they passed on to their sons as well as to their daughters a steady daily lesson in the world's
work. The most intelligent mother in the United States to-day, let her be kindergartner and
psychologist and child-study-specialist as much as she pleases, cannot give her children that
broad early view of the organization of life. The only place where her children can get it
now is in the school.

On the first of January of this year Mrs. Ella Flagg Young, superintendent of schools in Chicago,
took algebra out of the eighth grade of the elementary schools, and, in its place, inserted
a course on Chicago. Large parts of what was once the Home are now spread out through the Community.
The new course will teach the life of the community, its activities and opportunities, civic,
aesthetic, industrial. Such a course is nothing but Home Training for the enlarged Home.

But we must go back for a moment to that biggest and hardest department of all in the old homes
of New England.

   "Deceit, weeping, spinning, God hath give 
   To women kindly that they may live,"

said Chaucer in a teasing mood.

But spinning was a very small part of the Department of Textiles. We forbear to dilate on the
courses of instruction which that department offered. We confine ourselves to observing that:

First. In the Sub-Department of Flax, after heckling that flax with combs of increasing degrees
of fineness till the fibers lay pretty straight; after spinning it into yarn on her spinning-wheel;
after reeling the yarn off into skeins; after "bucking" the skeins in hot lye through many
changes of water; and after using shuttle and loom to weave the stuff into cloth, the home
woman of those days had to accomplish some twenty subsequent processes of bucking, rinsing,
possing, drying, and bleaching before the cloth was ready for use. 

Second. In the Sub-Department of Wool, in addition to being carders, spinners, and weavers,
women were dyers, handling all the color resources of the times, boiling poke-berries in alum
to get a crimson, using sassafras for a yellow or an orange, and producing a black by boiling
the fabric with field-sorrel and then boiling it again with logwood and copperas.

We pass over, as trivial, the making of flax and wool stuffs into articles of actual use. We
say nothing about the transformation of cloth into clothes, table-covers, napkins; nothing
about the weaving of yarn on little lap looms into the narrow fabrics for hair-laces, glove-ties,
belts, garters, and hat-bands; nothing about the incessant knitting of yarn into mittens and
stockings; nothing about a host of other details. They were for idle moments.

Sweet domestic days, when girls stayed at home and helped their mothers and let father support
the family!

It seems as if even Rip Van Winkle, in his most shiftless mood, ought to have been able to
support a large number of daughters under such conditions.

Does it astonish you that they matured young? There, all about them, from babyhood, were the
basic processes by which the world was sheltered, clothed, and fed. Those processes were numerous
but simple. Boys and girls observed them, absorbed them, through eyes, through finger-tips,
all through those early years when eyes and finger-tips are the nourishing points of the intellect.

John Winthrop, the first governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony, was married at seventeen. His
parents were not only willing, but aiding and abetting. They considered him a man.

Mercy Otis, in Revolutionary days, in Massachusetts, the wife of the patriot, James Warren,
and Abigail Smith, the wife of the future president, John Adams, both married before twenty.
A study of their lives will show that at that age they were mature.

To-day, in Boston, a woman of twenty is considered so immature that many of the hospitals will
not admit her even to her preliminary training for the trade of nurse till she has added at
least three years more to her mental development.

Who has thus prolonged infancy; who has thus postponed maturity? No individual.

Science has done part of it.

By the invention of power-driven machines and by the distribution of the compact industries
of the home through the scattered, innumerable business enterprises of the community, Science
has given us, in place of a simple and near world, a complicated and distant one. It takes
us longer to learn it.

Simultaneously, by research and also by the use of the printing-press, the locomotive, and
the telegraph wire (which speed up the production as well as the dissemination of knowledge),
Science has brought forth, in every field of human interest and of human value, a mass of facts
and of principles so enormous and so important that the labors of our predecessors on this
planet overwhelm us, and we grow to our full physical development long before we have caught
up, in any degree, with the previous experience of the race. And till we have done that, to
some degree, we are not mature.

With this postponement of personal maturity, there is an even greater postponement of what
might be called "technical" maturity. The real mastery of a real technique takes longer and
longer. The teacher must not only go to college but must do graduate work. The young doctor,
after he finishes college and medical school, is found as an interne in hospitals, as an assistant
to specialists, as a traveler through European lecture-rooms. The young engineer, the young
architect, the young specialist of every sort, finds his period of preparation steadily extending
before him.

What is left undone by Science in keeping us immature is finally accomplished by System.

The world is getting organized. Except in some of the professions (and often even in them)
we most of us start in on our life work at some small subdivided job in a large organization
of people. The work of the organization is so systematized as to concentrate responsibility
and remuneration toward the top. In time, from job to job, up an ascent which grows longer
as the organization grows bigger, we achieve responsibility. Till we do, we discharge minor
duties for minimum pay.

This is just as true of the boy from a "middle class" family as it is of the boy from a "working
class" family. There follows, however, a most important difference between them. The "middle
class" boy will have to work longer and go farther than the "working class" boy in order to
rise to the financial standards of his class. In this respect the "working class" boy will
be a man, ready for marriage, long before his "middle class" fellow-worker.

It is among "middle class" boys, then, that the period of infancy is most prolonged. They get
a good deal of schooling. The stores of human knowledge are put in their hands, to some extent,
and, to some extent, they catch up with the experience of the race. This takes a longer and
longer effort, particularly if real mastery of any real technique is attempted. Then, on going
to work, they find that System, supplementing Science, has perfected such an organization of
the world of work that they must stay for quite a while in the ranks of the organization. They
will not soon be earning what is regarded among their friends as a marrying income. In money,
as well as in mind, they approach marriage with increasing tardiness. Their prolonged infancy
is financial, as well as mental.

They say that college girls marry late. It is true enough. But it isn't properly stated.

The girls in the kind of family which college girls come from marry late.

It can be definitively established by statistics here considerately omitted that the age of
marriage of college girls is no later than the age of marriage of their non-college sisters
and acquaintances.

College is not a cause. It is a symptom.

Out of the prolongation of infancy in the "middle class" has come the conquest by women of
the intellectual freedom of the world.

It was by no vagary of chance that the demand of women for the higher education came simultaneously
with the change from the old industrial home to the new, more purely domestic home. (It may
be a higher, nobler type of home. We are not here discussing that point.)

As the home ceased to provide its daughters with adequate education and with adequate employment,
what was their situation? In the "working class" it was simply this: That they went into factories
and that their sweethearts married them somewhat later than had previously been the case, because
their share as wives in the support of the family was increasingly smaller. But the "working
class" man soon reaches his maximum earning capacity in his craft and stays there. His financial
infancy is short, compared with that of the "middle class" man. He therefore marries younger.

In the "middle class," however, Science and System began to lengthen the mental and financial
infancy of the men to such an extent that the "old maid" of twenty-three became common. What
were the girls in the "middle class" to do while the boys were growing up to be men, in mind
and in money?

The father of Frederick the Great used to go about his realm with a stick, and when he saw
a woman in the street he would shake the stick at her and say "Go back into the house. An honest
woman keeps indoors."

Probably quite sensible. When she went indoors, she went in to a job. The "middle class" daughter
of to-day, if her mother is living and housekeeping, goes indoors into a vacuum.

Out of that vacuum came the explosion which created the first woman's colleges.

There was plenty of sentiment in the explosion. That was the splendid, blinding part of it.
That was the part of it which even to-day makes us veil our eves before the nobility of such
women as Emma Willard and Mary Lyon. They made Troy Female Seminary in the twenties and Mount
Holyoke in the thirties in the image of the aspirations, as well as in the image of the needs,
of the women of the times.

But the needs were there, the need to be something, the need to do something, self-respecting,
self supporting. The existence of these needs was clearly revealed in the fact that from the
early women's colleges and from the early coeducational universities there at once issued a
large supply of teachers.

This goes back to the fountainhead of the higher education of women in this country. Emma Willard,
even before she founded Troy Female Seminary, back in the days when she was running her school
in Middlebury, Connecticut, was training young women to TEACH, and was acquiring her claim
(which she herself subsequently urged) to being regarded as the organizer of the first normal
school in the United States.

From that time to this most college women have taught school before getting married. The higher
education of women has been, in economic effect, a trade school for training women for the
trade of teacher.

But isn't it the purpose of the colleges to avoid training their pupils for specific occupations?
Isn't it their purpose to give their pupils discipline and culture, pure and broad, unaffected
by commercial intention? Isn't that what colleges are, and ought to be, for?

On the shore of this vast and violent controversy we discreetly pause and stealthily sidle
off, taking note of just three reefs of solid fact which unsubmergably jut out above the surface
of the raging waters.

First. The colleges instruct their pupils in the subjects which those pupils subsequently teach.

Second. The pupils specialize in the subjects which they are going to teach. 

Third. The colleges, besides providing the future teachers with subjects, almost always offer
to provide them with instruction in the principles of education, and frequently offer to provide
them with instruction in the very technique of classroom work.

Our verdict, therefore, which we hope will be satisfactory to counsel on both sides, is that
the college is by no means a trade school, but that if the woman who is going to earn her living
will choose the one trade of teaching, she can almost always get a pretty fair trade training
by going to college.

We are more interested in observing that the amount of trade training which a teacher is expected
to take is increasing year by year. In teaching, as in other trades, the period and scope of
preliminary preparation continue to expand.

In the last calendar of Bryn Mawr College, the Department of Education, in announcing its courses,
makes the following common-sense remarks:

"It is the purpose of the department to offer to students intending to become teachers an opportunity
to obtain a technical preparation for their profession. Hitherto practical training has been
thought necessary for teachers of primary schools only, but similar training is very desirable
for teachers in high schools and colleges also. Indeed, it is already becoming increasingly
difficult for college graduates without practical and theoretical pedagogical knowledge to
secure good positions. In addition to the lectures open to undergraduates, courses will be
organized for graduate students only, conducted with special reference to preparation for the
headship and superintendence of schools."

But the teaching trade is getting choked. There is too much supply. Girls are going to college
in hordes. Graduating from college, looking for work, there is usually just one kind of work
toward which they are mentally alert. Their college experience has seldom roused their minds
toward any other kind of work. They start to teach. They drug the market. And so the teaching
trade, the great occupation of unmarried "middle class" women, ceases to be able to provide
those women, as a class, with an adequate field of employment.

It is a turning point in the economic history of the class.

At the 1909 annual convention of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, in Cincinnati, Miss
Susan Kingsbury (acting for a committee of which Mrs. Richards, of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, and Miss Breckenridge, of the University of Chicago, were members) read a real
essay on "The Economic Efficiency of College Women."

This essay was not written till detailed reports on income and expenditure from 377 self-supporting
college graduates had been got together.

Out of these 377 there were 317 who were teachers. There were 183 who had followed up their
regular college course with from one to eight years of graduate study. The capital invested
in education was from $2500 to $3500 and often amounted to $7000 because of advanced work and
travel. After all this preparation, the average income achieved may be sufficiently disclosed
in the one fact that, among those graduates who had been at work for from six to eight years,
more than seventy per cent. were still earning less than $1100.

After drawing a complete statistical picture of the case, Miss Kingsbury concluded with certain
questions and recommendations, here condensed, which show the new economic needs of "middle
class" women knocking at the door of present "middle class" education:

"Should not the over-supply of teachers be reduced by directing many of our graduates into
other pursuits than teaching? This will place upon the college, just where the responsibility
is due, the obligation of discovering what those opportunities are and what preparation should
be given.

"This organization should endeavor to arouse in our colleges a sense of responsibility for
knowing the facts with regard to their graduates, both social and economic, and should also
endeavor to influence our colleges through appointment secretaries, to direct women, according
to fitness, into other lines than teaching.

"Should not courses be added to the college curriculum to give women the fundamental principles
in other professions, or lines of industry or commerce, than teaching?

"May not required courses be added to the college curriculum to inculcate business power and
sense in all women?"

This philosophy seems to aim at making the modern school as informative about modern industry
as the primitive home was about primitive industry. It seems to be the same educational philosophy
which produced the course on Chicago in the Chicago elementary schools, which produced the
Manhattan Trade School in New York, which produced the School of Salesmanship at the Women's
Educational and Industrial Union in Boston.

At that Women's Educational and Industrial Union, at 264 Boylston Street, you may see the evolution
toward the age of trained women proceeding at all levels of educational equipment.

There, before you, at one level, are the Trade School Shops--a shop in hand-work and a shop
in millinery. The pupils are graduates of the Boston Trade School for Girls. They have had
one year of training. They are now taking another.

Florence Marshall made the Boston Trade School, with a committee of women to help her. It has
now been taken over by the public authorities and merged into the public-school system. What
looked like a private fad has become a public function. The training of women for self-support
has been recognized as a duty of the state.

The Trade School Shops at the Women's Educational and Industrial Union were started for the
express purpose of supplementing the work of the Boston Trade School for Girls. One year was
not enough.

In the Trade School the prospective milliner had spent four months on plain sewing, four months
on summer hats, four months on winter hats. She had also taken short courses in Personal Hygiene,
Business Forms, Spelling, Business English, Color Design, Textiles, Industrial Conditions.
These latter courses were not, strictly speaking, "technical." They were "vocational." They
were in the "middle ground" between general and technical training. They went beyond the general
training of the elementary schools and furnished the girl with the background of her future
vocation. But she often needed a little more of the foreground, a little more of actual trade
technique.

Thus does her education divide itself up into periods:--general, vocational, technical.

The Trade School Shops are designed to give the girl her final technical finish. They are really
more like a factory than like a school. Although the object of them is to convey a broad instruction,
the pupil gets wages, the stuff she makes is sold, and the organization is that of a commercial
establishment.

So, at the end of two years from the time she left the elementary school, the young milliner
is ready to go out into the world organization. She is better fitted for her world than many
a college girl is for hers.

On a different level of educational equipment from the Trade School Shops stands the School
of Salesmanship. It gets many high school girls and even, occasionally, a girl who has been
to college.

Finally, there is the Appointment Bureau, for college girls in particular.

This Appointment Bureau is the most extraordinary employment agency ever organized. Its object
is not merely to introduce existing clients to existing jobs (which is the proper normal object
of employment agencies), but to make forays into the wild region of "occupations other than
teaching," and find jobs, and then find girls to fit those jobs. In other words, it is a kind
of "Company of Adventurers Trading into Hudson's Bay" for the purpose of exploring, surveying,
developing, and settling the region of "occupations other than teaching" on behalf of college
women.

It is managed by Miss Laura Drake Gill, President of the National Association of Collegiate
Alumnae and former Dean of Barnard College. She is assisted by an Advisory Council of representatives
of near-by colleges--Radcliffe, Wellesley, Simmons, Mount Holyoke, Smith, and Brown.

There is no more important work being done for women to-day.

In connection with it, the Women's Educational and Industrial Union has just issued a handbook
of three hundred pages, entitled "Vocations for the Trained Woman." It is an immense map of
the occupational world for "middle class" women, in which every bay and headland, every lake
and hill, is drawn to scale, from Poultry Farming to Department Store Buying, from Lunch-Room
Management to State Child-Saving.

The responses made to this movement by certain educational institutions (including particularly
Simmons College) will be observed in a future article. Just one response, from an unexpected
quarter, must be noticed here.

In a small Illinois city there is a woman's college, founded as a Preparatory School in the
forties and soon advanced to be a Seminary, which, with Anna P. Sill for its first head, Jane
Addams for its best-known graduate, and Julia Gulliver for its present president, has come
to be a college of standing and of leading. Only Troy Female Seminary and Mount Holyoke Seminary
preceded it, in date of foundation, among the important women's institutions.

Rockford College is ranked to-day, by the reports of the United States Commissioner of Education,
in rank one--among the sixteen best women's colleges in the United States. It hasn't risen
to that rank by any quick, money-spurred spurt. It brings with it out of its far past all the
traditions of that early struggle for the higher education which, by friction, kindled among
women so flaming an enthusiasm for pure knowledge. It remains "collegiate" in the old sense,
quiet, cloistral, inhabiting old-fashioned brick buildings in an old-fashioned large yard,
looking still like the Illinois of war times more than like the Illinois of the twentieth century,
retaining all the home ideals of those times--a large interest in feminine accomplishments,
a strict regard for manners, a belief in the value of charm.

But here, in this quiet, non-metropolitan college, so really "academic," so really--in the
oldest-fashioned ways--"cultural," here is a two-year course in secretarial studies.

It is the first time (within our knowledge) that such a thing has happened in any of the old
first-rank women's colleges.

The course in secretarial studies at Rockford gives the pupil English, Accounts, Commerce,
Commercial Law, and Economic History in her first year, and Political Science, English, and
Economics in her second year. Shorthand and Typewriting are required in both years, and a few
hours a week are reserved in each year for elective courses to be chosen by the pupil among
offerings in French, German, Spanish, and History.

This is a notable concession not only to the increased need of "middle class" women for "occupations
other than teaching" but also to the increased recognition of those other occupations as being
worthy of "cultural" training.

We keep moving forward into an era of trained women as well as trained men. The extraordinary
prolongation of mental and financial infancy in the "middle class," bringing with it an extraordinary
postponement of marriage, makes this training particularly necessary in the case of the women
of that class. But the contraction of the home as a field of adequate employment for daughters
exists everywhere, increasing the cost of living for the family and driving daughters to supplementing
the family income.

What futility, as well as indignity, there is in the idea that the query of support for women
gets its full answer in a husband!

In the United States, in the year 1900, among women twenty years of age and over, the married
women numbered 13,400,000. The unmarried women and the widows together numbered 6,900,000.
For every two women married there was one woman either single or widowed.

If education does not (1) give women a comprehension of the organization of the money-earning
world, and (2) train them to one of the techniques which lead to self-support in that world,
it is not education.

Just at this point, though, we encounter a curious conflict in women's education. Just as we
see their urgent need of a money-earning technique, we simultaneously hear, coming from a corner
of the battlefield and swelling till it fills the air with a nation-wide battle-cry, the sentiment:
"The Home is also a technique. All women must be trained to it."

At Rockford College, illustrating this conflict, there exists, besides the course in Secretarial
Studies, an equivalent course in Home Economics.

In one photograph in this article we show the tiny children of the Francis Parker School in
Chicago taking their first lesson in the technique of the home. In another picture we show
the post-graduate laboratory in the technique of the home at the University of Illinois. And
the space between the kindergarten and the degree of Doctor of Philosophy threatens to get
filled up almost everywhere with courses in cooking, sewing, chemistry of diet, composition
of textiles, art of marketing, and other phases of home management.

The money-earning world, a technique! The home, a technique! The boy learns only one. Must
the girl learn two, and be twice a specialist?

(In the September number Mr. Hard will discuss The Home Economics Movement.)

***************************************************************** VOL.

"

----IN A FAR TOWNSHIP

By SARAH N. CLEGHORN

His roundabout of bottle-green, And pantaloons of fine nankeen Were Sunday best; the month
was May, And this from school a holiday;  But he had none with whom to play, And wandered wistful,up
and down,  All in a strange old Garden,  And in a strange old Town.

An ancient chaise, a Dobbin gray Had brought him here to spend the day. Now his old aunt and
uncle drowse; No chick nor child is in the house-- No cat, no dog, no bird, or mouse;  No fairy
picture-book to spell,  No music-box of wonder,  Nor magic whispering-shell.

Unending is this afternoon,  And strange this landscape as the moon,  With home a thousand
miles away-- The pasture where his brothers play  With whoop and shout, in Indian fray;  The
porch where, even at this hour,  His mother prunes the vine and flower, And hums the nursery
melody,  "I saw a ship a-sailing,  A-sailing on the sea."

***************************************************************** VOL. XXIII  September 1910 NO. 3

Lassoing Wild Animals In Africa

By GUY H. SCULL

Field Manager of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition

Editor's Note: The wild animals of Africa have been hunted with firearms for many a year, and
photographed by more than one marksman of the lens. But here is the truly unique expedition
into the jungle. The idea that any one should seriously contemplate a journey to Africa for
the purpose of lassoing such creatures as sportsmen either shoot or photograph at the longest
range possible, seems quite absurd. But an American frontiersman has done it, with American
cowboys, cow-ponies, and hunting-dogs, and with wonderful moving pictures to prove it. It is
a fine evidence of the sporting qualities of both parties to the undertaking that Colonel C.
J. Jones, a Western plainsman, could so completely interest Mr. Charles S. Bird, an Eastern
manufacturer, in the fantastic plan as to command his backing. And if there is such a thing
as the glow of adventure by proxy, it must have been felt in the Nassau Street law office,
where the Buffalo Jones African Expedition had its headquarters, when the cablegram from Nairobi
announced that lion and rhino had been lassoed, and that the moving pictures were a complete
success.

IT was a special train--loaded to capacity with horses and dogs, camp baggage, moving-picture
cameras, cowboys, photographers, and porters; and when it pulled out of the Nairobi station
on the way to the "up country" of British East Africa, the period of preparation passed away
and the time of action began. As the faces of the people on the platform glided by the window
of the slowly moving carriage, there was good will written on all of them; but also unbelief.
There was no doubt as to what they thought of Buffalo Jones's expedition that was setting out
to rope and tie and photograph the wild animals of the East African Veldt.

"How are you going to hold a rhino that weighs two tons and a half?"

"What are you going to do when the lion charges?"

Such were the questions asked us by the hunters of the country. They further took pains to
explain that a rhino charges like a flash, and that a lion can catch a horse within a hundred
yards.

These items of information, however, were well known to Buffalo Jones before the expedition
was organized in New York, and his preparations to meet the difficulties had been made accordingly.

Colonel C. J. Jones is tall and spare, with a strong, rugged face and keen blue eyes. During
his sixty-five years of life, he has roped and tied, often single-handed, every kind of wild
animal of consequence to be found in our western country, and his experience with these has
led him to believe implicitly that man is the master of all wild beasts.

He has climbed trees after mountain lions, and with a lasso over a branch has hauled grizzlies
up into the air by one hind leg. And once he set out alone to journey over a country that no
white man had ever traveled before, to reach the land of the musk-ox on the border of the Arctic
Circle. The story is told of how he met a trapper on the way, and how these two, in the face
of the hostility of all the Indian tribes, the wolves, and the cold of the northern winter,
eventually came to the musk-ox and captured five calves. Then, deserted by their Indian guide,
they started to return with their prizes, got lost in the wilderness, and fought the wolves
till their cartridges ran out. And when at last they reached safety and fell asleep, exhausted,
the Indians, obeying the laws of their religion, stole upon them in the night and killed the
calves.

But the success he had achieved with the mountain lions of the Southwest, the musk-ox of the
North, and the grizzly bears of the Rockies was not enough. For twenty years it had been the
one ambition of his life to take an outfit to British East Africa to try his hand with the
more ferocious big game of that country. But in his Western experience Colonel Jones had learned
something else besides the mastery of man over beast. Precisely how an American cowboy was
going to hold a rhinoceros that weighed two tons and a half was purely a matter of speculation.
Yet of one thing the Colonel was certain--the experiment would result in a moving picture that
would be well worth the taking. For this reason, what afterward came to be known as the "picture
department" was added to the make-up of the expedition.

The preparations extended over a considerable length of time, and were carried on in various
places. Unquestionably, the most important part of the outfit was the horses. It was absolutely
essential that they should be Western cow-ponies, fast, well trained, and reliable in every
way. The Colonel, who best of all could foresee the nature of the work they would have to do,
selected them himself, ten in all, from the ranches of New Mexico, and shipped them to New
York. The American dogs to be used for trailing were likewise chosen by the Colonel. Some of
them belonged to him personally, and had been thoroughly tried out. The rest had reputations
of their own. Of the two cowboys who were to act as his assistants, Marshall Loveless had worked
with the Colonel before and knew his methods, and Ambrose Means came highly recommended for
skill and daring from one of the largest ranch owners in the West.

When, at the last moment, the writer of these articles was introduced to the expedition in
the capacity of acting field manager, the preparations were well under way. The horses and
dogs had been already shipped, en route to Africa, in charge of the cowboys, and the date of
our sailing for London had been fixed for the following day.

The meeting was held at a luncheon in the Railroad Club, in New York. There were present Colonel
Jones, Mr. F. W. Bird, son of Charles S. Bird[1] who financed the expedition, Mr. W. G. Sewall,
of the Boma Trading Company, of Nairobi, and myself. After certain matters of business had
been disposed of, the talk at the luncheon table drifted to the probabilities and possibilities
of success; to lions, rhinos, elands, and cheetahs; to cowboys, horses, and dogs. But the Colonel
would hear of no possibilities, or even probabilities, of failure. He was  peculiarly insistent
upon this point. And when the hour of the business man's lunch time came to an end, and the
room began to empty, Mr. Sewall said to me across the corner of the table:

"Of course, every one in Nairobi will think all of you either fakers or crazy. I know you're
no fakers. I don't know whether you're crazy or not. But there is one thing in your favor:
The Colonel's unshaken belief that the thing can be done will probably pull it through."

[1] EAST WALPOLE, MASS.,  July 8, 1910.  Mr. GUY H. SCULL.

MY DEAR SCULL  It has been asked by some what the object of the Buffalo Jones African Expedition
was. I will tell you.

You know my friend, Colonel C. J. Jones, broke his rifle a generation or so ago and vowed he
would never again kill game save for food or in self-defense. Since taking that oath he has
subdued and captured all kinds of wild animals in North America, including the musk-ox, buffalo,
grizzly bear, and cougar.

I discovered that it was his dream to go to East Africa to prove that with American cowboys,
horses, and dogs he could lasso and capture the savage animals of that country as readily as
he has the wild animals of our country. As a sporting proposition, it seemed to me unique and
fascinating, and so, as a small tribute to Colonel Jones, I volunteered to finance the expedition.

I somewhat doubt whether there is another man in the world who has the courage, skill, and
determination to do what he has done in the animal kingdom, and he well deserves to be called
"The Preserver of the American Bison."

I want to acknowledge our indebtedness to Mr. Arthur A. Fowler of
New York for his assistance in helping us outfit the expedition
in London and Nairobi, and to you and the others who have helped
to make the expedition a success.             
                                    Very truly,                  

                                        CHARLES S. BIRD.

On our arrival in London about the middle of January of this year, the work of preparation
was continued at once. Outside of the minor details of the outfit, such as personal equipment,
saddlery, medicines, bandages, and so forth, the first matter to receive attention was the
organization of the picture department. Mr. Cherry Kearton was sought to take charge of this
branch of the expedition. Kearton--a powerfully built Yorkshireman--is an experienced cinematograph
photographer and a naturalist of no small reputation. He had taken moving pictures in Africa
before, and so he knew the climatic conditions there--the heat radiation and the different
intensities of light. He also knew the animals the Colonel was going to rope. But besides being
a cinematograph expert and a naturalist, he was also a sportsman.

When Kearton learned of the nature of the undertaking, he was skeptical. He had no more than
a slight acquaintance with the Colonel then, and only a vague, hearsay knowledge of what the
American Cowboy could do. Evidently his mind was divided by the dictates of common sense and
the sporting instinct. On many occasions during this time, he questioned the feasibility of
the experiment in the light of what he knew of the African beasts. The agreement, in documentary
form, was spread out on the table in the Boma Trading Company's London office when he finally
wanted to know how in Heaven's name we thought this thing could be done.

"We'll do it," the Colonel said quietly. That was all.

"Well, there's a picture in it, anyway," said Kearton, and signed the papers.

With his assistant, David Gobbet, two cinematograph machines and tripods, hand cameras and
developing apparatus, he set sail immediately for Africa, leaving an order for thirty thousand
feet of film to be divided between two manufacturers and to be forwarded as soon as possible.

In the meantime, Colonel Jones was hard at work collecting a rather unusual assortment of articles.
The experience of a life-time enabled him to foresee what kind of materials were absolutely
necessary, and what kind might prove useful on the present expedition. Naturally, the articles
required were not usually in stock, but the London shopkeeper is proverbially obliging and
imperturbable.

One rainy morning the Colonel walked into a hardware store and asked to see some handcuffs.
A pair was shown him.

"Not large enough," said the Colonel.

"How large would you want them, sir?"

"Twice that size."

"May I ask for what purpose you require them, sir?"

"For lions," said the Colonel.

"Precisely, handcuffs for lions; yes, you need large ones. I am afraid I have none in stock
just now, but I can have them made for you within a few days."

It was the same with almost everything the Colonel wanted to purchase; everything had to be
made especially for him after his own description--handcuffs, collars and belts, chains, branding
irons, a block and fall, muzzles of different sizes, corkscrew picket-pins for holding the
turn of a rope, and a nondescript article shaped like a huge pair of tongs, for which I feel
sure there is no name in any trade, but which looked to be a handy implement for clamping the
jaws of a beast. To have these things made according to specifications took time and an endless
amount of running about. Besides, there was the more ordinary part of the equipment to procure:
English dogs, both foxhounds and terriers, horse-blankets, extra ropes, horseshoes, and so
on. When the last of the expedition sailed from Southampton, there were forty-eight pieces
of baggage on the list.

This last contingent reached Nairobi at noon on March 3, and for the first time then all the
members of the expedition met together. Loveless proved to be a man a little below the medium
height; he held himself very erect, walked with quick, energetic steps, and wore a blond mustache.
He made polite inquiries as to our voyage out, commented on the hot weather, and fully explained
the condition of the horses and dogs. Means was taller. He carried his head slightly forward
and wore his black hair brushed low down over his forehead. He stood slumped on one hip, so
that one shoulder also was lower than the other.

"Please' to meet you," he said.

On our arrival at Nairobi the first matter to be decided was the district to be worked. The
choice lay between the Sotik and the Kapeti Plains. According to the usual batch of contradictory
stories in such cases, the game was said to be equally plentiful, or equally scarce, in both
districts. Both had been shot over considerably of late, and, anyhow, no one could really tell
us where the most game was to be found; because, as one informant explained, the game everywhere
shifted so frequently and so fast. But the Sotik and the country approaching it--the Kedong
and Rift Valleys, and the Mau--were reported to be more or less free from ticks, and, as the
health of the horses was of the gravest importance to us, we determined to work this district
first.

The Colonel and his two cowboys, Loveless and Means, were ready to start at once. Eight out
of the ten horses were in fine condition. With but one exception, the dogs had come through
safely, though all were suffering somewhat from distemper. It was concluded, however, that
they would recover just as rapidly in the open country as they would in Nairobi.

Kearton and Gobbet were ready. Kearton had built a dark room in Nairobi, because his earlier
experience had taught him that the pictures could not be developed with any degree of satisfaction
in the field. His four special porters to carry the cameras and tripods--porters he had trained
on previous safaris--were only waiting for the word to move. Mr. Ray Ulyate, the white hunter
to the expedition, had already gone to Kijabe to prepare his ox-wagons against our coming,
and the Boma Trading Company had engaged a special train to leave Nairobi on the fifth.

On the morning of that day we held the customary procession of an outgoing safari down the
main street of Nairobi to the waiting train. The Colonel rode first, with the assorted pack
of dogs at his horse's heels. Then came the cowboys with the led horses; then the picture department;
then the long single line of black porters, bringing up the rear. Above the loads on the porters'
heads two flags flashed their colors in the sunlight--the stars and stripes, and the house
flag of the company, with the white buffalo skull against the red background, and underneath
the motto, Sapiens qui Vigilat.

The night had already fallen black and cold when the special train crested the top of the divide
and coasted down grade into Kijabe. The most imposing structure in the place is the railroad
station, with its red wooden building propped up on piles, its tin guest-house alongside, and
the neat gravel platform growing a clump of trees. The rest of Kijabe is composed of four other
houses, the goods-shed, an open-faced Indian booth, the post-office, and the water-tank. Ulvate
met us with a lantern, for the station lights are dim, and we detrained in the face of the
high wind that always blows there from sunset to dawn, and picketed the horses among the trees
of the station platform. Because a large part of the revenue of the country is derived from
the visiting hunters, a safari is accorded privileges out of the ordinary. So, as a matter
of course, we took possession of the station and camped in the tin guest-house for the night.

The morning came clear and hot and still. The railroad at Kijabe runs along the face of the
hills, so that the land drops down abruptly to the plains below, and you can look away for
miles over the Kedong and Rift valleys, with the two sentinel extinct volcanoes rising black
against the heat-blurred sky;

The floors of the valleys are laid with volcanic ash. But on first appearances the land looks
much the same as the regulation veldt or certain parts of our own Western plains. It is only
by the fineness of the dust that hangs about the horses' feet, and the peculiar quality of
the thirst that dries in the throat, that you know this is no ordinary soil.

The sun was high in the heavens before we finally started from Kijabe and descended the rough
road to the level ground, with the brakes on the ox-wagons squealing harshly and the horses
treading silently in the dust.

We had planned to camp at Sewell's farm that night. It was only about four hours away, but
a short trek the first day is always a good rule to follow. It gives every one a chance, so
to speak, to shake down well into the saddle. We had gone but a short distance, however, when
one thing became strikingly apparent: Gobbet did not know how to ride! He was mounted on a
white African pony that we had found it necessary to add to our string. The pony was stolid,
lazy, and easy-gaited, but Gobbet's unfamiliar attitude toward his mount was unmistakable.

Now it is a delicate matter in any country to broach the question of a man's horsemanship,
but presently Gobbet introduced the subject of his own accord.

"Of course I can't ride a horse," he said. "Have never been on one before. When Mr. Kearton
spoke to me about coming out here with him, he just asked me if I could ride, and I told him
surely I could ride--but I didn't tell him I meant a bicycle."

After all, the matter was of no great importance. Gobbet was young and thin and active, with
sharp black eyes, and the work that lay ahead of us would probably teach him to ride in short
order--and it did.

We had little expectation of finding either a lion or a rhino on that first day's trip. We
were traveling on a regular road, making a kind of initial march. The fringe of scrub at the
beginning of the valley had been left behind some three or four miles when Ulyate suddenly
reined in his horse and pointed to three black dots on the veldt about half a mile away.

The black dots proved to he only wart-hogs, but we wanted them, and, so long as there was little
chance of our finding any of the more important species of game, we took the opportunity that
offered. The Colonel and the two cowboys tightened their cinches and then rode out to the westward
to round up the beasts.

"Drive 'em back to us," Kearton called after them, and Means waved his hand by way of answer.

Behind us, the line of porters was coming up along the road. They were straggling badly, broken
up into little sections of threes and fours, so that the last of them were not yet in sight.
Gobbet was sent back to hurry forward the four special porters with the cameras, and when these
finally arrived upon the scene, their faces covered with dust and sweat, the horsemen had dwindled
to dots only a little larger than the hogs themselves.

Kearton placed the cameras a few yards apart, and there we waited, watching the distant specks.

Two of the riders disappeared into a far patch of scrub. The third began swinging to the southward.
His horse was galloping after something we could not see.

In the meantime the safari was coming up, and as each section arrived it was halted, and the
porters put down their loads and sat on them. Some of them turned their backs upon the scene
in total indifference as to what was coming next; others regarded the cameras with expressions
of mild curiosity.

Little by little the third horseman had swung round so that he was headed due east, riding
straight at us. Rapidly the speck grew larger, and the two other riders came out of the scrub
and joined the chase.

Nearer and nearer they came, with the dust cloud swirling behind them. Gobbet began turning
the handle of his camera, and the whir of the machine sounded loud in the stillness. One or
two of the porters jumped to their feet and pointed. Kearton waited.

"I hope they won't come straight into the lens," he said. "If they do, it won't make a good
picture. They ought to come at an angle. So," he explained, placing his hand obliquely to the
line of focus. Then he bent over, laid his eye to the gun-sight of the machine, and likewise
began turning.

The thunder of the chase could be heard now, and we could see that it was Loveless leading,
on his black, with Means and the Colonel close behind and the wart-hog some forty yards ahead.
The beast was running strong. His huge snout was thrust forward, and his upturned tusks gleamed
in the sunlight. But gradually the black horse gained on him, and Loveless loosened the rope
from his saddle and began swinging the long noose round and round his head.

On came the wart-hog, straight for Kearton's camera.

Kearton straightened up above the machine and waved his helmet frantically.

"Give over, give over!" he shouted.

"You're driving him right into the picture. It's no good. Give over!"

The chase never swerved an inch, and Kearton bent to his work again, cursing in well-selected
periods.

The next moment the hog drove past him. At the same instant Loveless threw his rope and caught
the beast by one hind leg. The black horse stopped, fore feet planted firmly, and the dust
cloud swept across and hid the scene.

When the dust cleared away, the hog was lying across the road, blowing comfortably, with the
rope leading from his hind leg to the horn of Loveless' saddle. Loveless laughed.

"There's the first one for you," he said. "And my, can't he run!"

Gobbet, however, was indignant. "It's no use," he complained. "To bring an object that way
straight into the lens is against the first principles of cinematography. It's no use, I tell you."

Means sat half slumped in his saddle, with his reeking horse panting heavily.

"Well, well, well," he finally drawled. "And didn't Mr. Pig come a-bending across that prairie?
He most certainly come a-bending."

The porters gathered around and looked long at the beast; some of them spoke a few words in
low tones, and the others nodded their heads and smiled.

Sometimes a wart-hog will act nasty, and his lower tusks are sharp as razors; but when this
one was released he walked out of the circle of grinning natives, slowly, quietly, and apparently
thoroughly disgusted.

At Sewell's farm there is a pan of water made by a dam across an almost waterless brook, and
alongside of this pan we pitched our camp. When the sun set, the high wind rose again, whirling
up the dust in heavy clouds and sending the sparks from the fire scurrying over the ground.
But the Kedong Valley wind is more or less a phenomenon of the country. You can count upon
it absolutely for every one of its disagreeable qualities. I think the citizens of Africa are
a little proud of it.

There was now a fair chance that on our way into the Rift Valley we should flush one or another
of the larger animals. Preparations for such a contingency were accordingly made before starting
from Sewell's farm. Canteens and iron drums were filled with water, because the next camp would
be a dry one. The cinematograph, cameras, and all the extra boxes were loaded with films the
evening before, and the four special camera porters were given strict orders to keep well up
with the advance of the safari. The lion-taming outfit--the tongs, muzzles, chains, and collars--was
stowed on the first wagon, on top of the load, where it could be got at readily in case of
need. The Colonel rode ahead, with the two cowboys close behind, all three ropers mounted on
their best horses--the Colonel on "the paint," Loveless on his black, and Means on the big-boned
bay. Every member of the party was especially cautioned to keep a sharp lookout on both sides
of the road.

Just as the day before, the morning came hot and still, and for hour after hour the straggling
safari crawled slowly over the long waves of the undulating veldt. The road was a wagon track
always vanishing in front toward the head of the valley. The land lay silent beneath the glaring
sunlight.

We outspanned at noon for an hour. Over the country here grew small, scattered thorn trees,
thick with thorns but with scarcely any leaves, so that the shade beneath them was thin and
could shelter no more than one horse. The water in the canteens, cold at the start, had become
warm now.

When we mounted again, the sweat had dried on the horses, and the boots felt stiff on our feet.
The line of the road still stretched away its interminable length until it disappeared in the
distance.

And then, as we crawled sleepily ahead over the rises, the Colonel was the first to notice
the lion spoor in the dust.

With sudden animation the safari awoke from the lethargy of the hot, monotonous march. The
spoor was judged to be at least four hours old, so there was no use putting the dogs on it.
Then presently it disappeared. On the dead grass of the bordering veldt there was nothing to
show which way the lion had gone. But there was a chance--a small one, yet still a chance--that
the beast was lying up near by in the shade of a thorn tree. So all the horsemen spread out
over the veldt to obtain a wider scope of vision, and for mile after mile the company moved
forward, sweeping the immediate country.

Proceeding in this manner through the afternoon, we eventually crested a slightly higher rise
and looked down into a shallow valley that was greener than the rest of the veldt. A few full-sized
trees were growing in the bottom, and there were a number of outcroppings of rock. Large herds
of antelope were grazing there.

The Colonel called a halt.

"There is no lion anywhere hereabouts," he said, "because the game are grazing peacefully.
But there is a bunch of eland yonder. We might as well round them up while the light lasts."

The plan of operation was quickly made. The cameras were stationed about a mile to the southeast,
partly concealed by the bole of a tree, and the bunch of eland were skillfully rounded up and
a good specimen was singled out.

Everything was working to perfection. The three horsemen drove the eland toward the cameras--not
directly at them, but a little to one side, at an angle, as Kearton wanted it done. At the
proper moment Loveless roped the animal by the forelegs and neck, and threw it down. Loveless
jumped from his horse and was running forward to tie the prize when something--the smell of
the strange beast, perhaps--started the black horse bucking. With the rope made fast to the
saddle and the eland acting as a pivot, the black went careering round and round. Both the
Colonel and Means tried to rope him, and missed, and finally Loveless, on foot, caught him
by the dangling reins.

Of course such a thing might have been readily foreseen, but somehow it came as a surprise
and opened up grave possibilities. That night in camp at "Rugged Rocks" we were gathered about
the cook s fire for the warmth it gave, when the Colonel spoke of the affair.

"Everything was going great till that horse started bucking," the Colonel remarked. "We've
got to teach our horses not to mind the smell of these strange animals out here. We've got
to be able to depend absolutely on our horses. Of course that eland wasn't dangerous. But when
we tackle something else and a horse acts that way, it might be bad."

But Gobbet said it was good action, anyway, and would look fine when thrown on the screen.

March 8 was a day of disappointments. Between sunrise and sunset we traveled fifteen miles
to the Wangai River and hunted in turn a pair of lions, a cheetah, and a rhinoceros--and lost
them all. Two circumstances were held accountable: one was the necessity of getting the horses
to water, and the other was the fact that it was just a bad luck day all through.

We came upon the lions early in the morning, close to the base of the southern volcano. This
particular pair of lions must have been shot over at one time or another, for they did not
wait to satisfy any curiosity as to our intentions, but fled at once for the safety of the
mountain. Although we gave chase immediately, their lead was so great and the distance to the
mountains so short, that they were soon lost to us in the gullies and crevices of the foothills.

It was while we were trying to pick up the lost trail of the lions that we flushed a cheetah
out of one of the dongas.[2] It broke away along the foothills, and finally stopped at bay
in a district where the going was so bad for the horses that we had to give up the attempt.

[2] Donga.--a gully.

With the rhinoceros we had scarcely any chance whatsoever. The Colonel, who was scouting the
country to the northward of the line of march, caught a glimpse of the beast in the adjacent
valley. By the time he had come back to get us and we had ridden in pursuit, the rhino had
disappeared.

We found his trail leading still farther to the northward, and dismounted and looked down at
it in silence. No comments were made. No comments were necessary. Every one knew that for lack
of water the horses were too done up to follow.

Means had dismounted a little to one side of the group, and for a while he stood there with
his arms resting on his saddle, gazing back over the way we had come. Presently he remarked
to the world at large: Excitement has certainly been runnin' high all day. We mounted then;
and, instead of hunting the rhino farther, we rode the jaded horses slowly into camp and put
a proper finish to a bad luck day by holding a consultation.

The Wangai River is no river at all; merely a small spring in the shadow of the range that
crosses the head of the valley. But the spring could supply sufficient water for all our needs.
Also, the problem of transportation demanded that Ulyate should return to Kijabe and bring
up another wagon with supplies before the journey over the Mau into the Sotik could be undertaken.
Then, too, here in the Rift Valley we had seen both lion and rhino, and there was always the
chance of finding them again. The consultation resulted in the decision to make a permanent
camp here and hunt the neighboring country until Ulyate should return.

For the succeeding three days the Colonel laid out a plan of campaign; simple, but effective,
and limited only by the necessity of keeping within reasonable distance of the water. The plan
consisted of a series of drives; one in a northeasterly, one in an easterly, and one in a southeasterly
direction. By this means we would cover in turn all the territory at the head of the valley.

The Colonel was anxious to try again for the rhino he had seen on the march the day before,
and for this reason the drive to the northeast was inaugurated first. Every member of the expedition
took part in these drives. The Colonel and the writer at one end, and the two cowboys at the
other, occupied the extreme positions. Between the right and left wings stretched a long line
of porters, under the command of two escaris, and with Kearton and Gobbet in the center with
the cameras. The dogs on leash and the saises carrying water for the horses brought up the
rear. When finally formed, the line of the drive extended approximately five miles, and the
cameras and the dogs were so placed that they could be brought to either end of the line with
the utmost despatch. Two shots fired in quick succession would be the signal to gather.

That first day's drive brought little success. To begin with, we were late in starting, so
that the sun had already risen before we moved out of camp; and besides, the porters were new
at that kind of work and had to be halted and reformed many times before they understood what
was wanted.

The land across which we were driving lay at the very edge of the valley, and was consequently
somewhat broken into small hills and hollows. By the time we came to the old rhino trail, the
day was well advanced. But no fresh tracks were to be found up and down the entire length of
the hollow, nor was anything to be seen of the beast from the next hill to the northward, which
we climbed to search the country ahead. There was only a large herd of hartebeests grazing
on the plains below.

The Colonel retreated halfway down the hill and fired two shots from his revolver. Somewhere
beyond our range of vision we heard the two shots repeated, and at the end of a little more
than half an hour all the members of the drive were gathered on the hillside below the crest.

Then the Colonel explained the reason for his signal. The rhino was not there. We might still
find him, and we might not. The chances were now that we should not. He had probably left the
country for good and was already miles away. In the meanwhile a good opportunity offered for
rounding up the herd of hartebeests in the plain below and driving them up the hillside to
the cameras.

On top of the hill was a small clearing, the edges of which were fringed with scrub. While
the Colonel and the cowboys maneuvered to circle the herd, Kearton placed the cameras in the
clearing, with the northern line of scrub as a background for the intended picture.

For a long time there was silence. Then suddenly the scrub sprang into life, and the next instant
the herd dashed into the clearing in a cloud of dust that was pierced by a hundred startled
eyes and tossing horns. At the sight of the cameras the herd broke and scattered in every direction;
but the horsemen, pressing them close, roped one in the open, and held him to have his picture
taken, and then let him go.

On the second drive, over the lowlands to the east, the porters worked better; but, although
we covered a far greater territory, the total result was the roping and photographing of a
serval-cat that we flushed on the way back to camp.

The third drive carried us well out toward the southern volcano where we had seen the lions
on the march from Rugged Rocks, but this time there was no trace of them anywhere in the land.
Means, however, found a cheetah, and the two faint reports of his signal brought us together
on the run.

We came upon Means seated on his horse in a bit of the veldt that was covered all over with
tufts of rank grass, so that it looked like a swamp that had been dry for ages. Near by ran
a small, shallow donga.

When the rest of us rode up to him, he merely pointed at one of the tufts of grass behind which
the cheetah lay crouched.

There followed a brief delay, while a plan of maneuver was made and expounded, while the tripods
were set up, the cameras screwed on, and the ropers moved out to their appointed places.

Then all at once the cheetah started, and, instead of breaking away, as we had calculated he
would, he doubled on his tracks and made for the shelter of the donga. It was a quick, sharp
race--and the cheetah won. He hid in the scrub at the bottom of the ditch. The native porters
collected there and complacently regarded the scene, and the members of the drive ranged themselves
on either bank and offered innumerable suggestions as to what had better be done next.

But in the midst of it all the Colonel put an emphatic end to the discussion. He rode into
the donga with his rope swinging free, and when the cheetah failed to spring at him, he dropped
the noose over the animal's head and dragged him out on to the open veldt, where his picture
could be properly taken.

The black porters looking on commenced speaking in low tones in their native tongue, and nodded
and grinned at each other as they had done before. But this time Mac was among them. Mac was
Kearton's tent-boy. He originally came from Somaliland and spoke English. He was called upon
to explain what the porters said.

"Please," he began. "They are very bad men, these people, but don't be sorry. They say--they
say that, of course, the white gentlemen are able to do what they want to do, but just the
same they are all crazy."

