The chapel was a crypt-like place, windowless, dark, and musty, and at this mournful climax
one of the tourists who was nervous moved suddenly off that particular stone upon which she
had been standing; the school teachers out for self-improvement began to write it all in their
note-books, while a stout matron evidently of good old Dutch stock looked sadly down at the
flat, gray stones. "Poor things!" she murmured, "and there ain't one of them got a respectable
white tombstone with a wreath carved on it." Then, in their usual two-by-two line, the party
moved down the aisle wearily, but triumphant in the fact that they had succeeded in doing the
Tower, the Abbey, and the Museum all in one day. Peggy Wynne, in demurely severe blue suit
and jaunty panama, lagged at the end of the line while she looked critically at her compatriots.

    "The animals went out two by two,
    The elephant and the kangaroo,"

she murmured to herself, "and I'm so tired of playing Noah's Ark or a Christian Association
out for a lark," she continued in unconscious poetical despair. Then, warned by the attitude
of the guard, that wonderful attitude of the haughty Briton in hopes of a tip, she opened her
ridiculously tiny gold-linked purse and gave herself up to the absorbing question as to which
of the pieces therein was a shilling. Having at last decided this, she presented it to the
guard with a dazzling smile. It had been so long since Peggy had had an opportunity to smile
at anything masculine that the smile was unusually bright.

She had already passed through the little door when she suddenly turned back. The other tourists,
noses in Baedekers, were hurrying on before, the guard was busily counting his sixpences, and
she slipped back into the dim chapel unperceived.

"They'll think I've gone back to those dingy lodgings," she reflected, as she groped her way
between the benches into an even more shadowy corner--a little recess, with a tiny niche in
the wall, that had probably been the sanctuary of some pious king. She seated herself comfortably
behind the pillar in the corner and gazed pensively at the stones.

"Tombs and tombs and tombs!" she murmured mournfully, "even in Paris, instead of Maxim's and
the cafes, nothing but tombs! The next time I want to see where anybody is buried I will just
go out to the cemetery instead of coming across that dreadful ocean. Oh, just to have one adventure
before I go home!" she continued with a long sigh, "a real adventure with a real man in it--not
a horrid, womanish Frenchman or a stolid, conceited Britisher, but a nice, safe American--like--like--like--my
American."

Then the dimple in her right cheek that was probably responsible for the calling her Peggy,
in spite of her many protests for her rightful dignity of "Margaret," came out suddenly as
it always did when she thought of her American. She had called him that from the time when,
in the midst of the perplexities of the English luggage system, she had looked up and found
him watching her. The cut of his gray suit and his shoes had told her his nationality at once,
and they had looked for a moment at each other with that peculiar friendliness that compatriots
in a strange land always feel. She had forgotten him until, leaning from a taxi-cab in the
Rue de la Paix, she had met the same eyes, this time so unrefrainedly joyful in their recognition
that she had suddenly blushed. When, a week later at Calais, as she stood by the rail of the
departing Channel steamer she caught a glimpse of him on the dock, he had seemed like an old
friend, and before she had thought she had smiled in answer to his lifted hat. She had grown
so sure of seeing him that now when they had been in London a week and he had not appeared
she found herself suddenly sick of tombs and tourists.

Peggy's day had been a strenuous one of trams, motor-busses, abbeys, and galleries, and though
she realized an adventure might probably await her outside, it was pleasant to sit for awhile
in the dimness of the quiet chapel. From her recess she could look out through the open doors
upon the tragic Tower Green, where in the sunlight two sparrows were frivolously flirting.
Even as she watched, the sparrows grew dim, her ridiculously tiny purse slipped from her hand,
her head with its thick dark hair dropped against the pillar, and her lashes touched her cheek.
After awhile a cautious footfall sounded in the chapel, then somewhere a heavy door closed,
and all was still.

When Peggy sat up indignantly with the queer sensation that she had been violently shaken,
darkness surrounded her, a darkness so deep that she could not see her hand as she ran it along
the bench in front of her. With the movement came remembrance of her surroundings, and also
a realization in strained and aching muscles that a stone pillar is not a wise choice for a
head-rest.

"Oh!" she gasped painfully.

"Don't be frightened," entreated a voice quite near to her, and out of the lesser darkness
a tall black figure rose suddenly.

"I am not at all frightened," said Peggy at once. In spite of the bigness of the figure there
was something reassuring in the voice with its crisp, humorous note and its intonation that
Peggy at once recognized as American.

"What are you doing here?" she continued, inhospitably addressing the darkness before her.

"I went to sleep" the voice explained, "on the other side of the pillar."

"How silly!" said Peggy, severely, "didn't you see me here?"

"It was a little dim," the voice apologized and, Peggy's silence still condemning, "you should
have snored," it continued extenuatingly.

Peggy arose with a dignity that she hoped penetrated the darkness. Then she groped along the bench.

"My purse," she explained anxiously, "and it had a sixpence for tea and two shillings for tips,"
she continued with an unconscious epitome of the joys of traveling. As she groped along bench
and floor she was conscious of assistance from her companion, and just as she grasped the discovered
purse she felt purse and hand caught and retained in a firm grip.

"I apologize," he said at once, still however, holding on to her hand, "I thought it was the
purse."

Peggy jerked her hand loose indignantly, and speechless with wrath she hurried toward the door
only to find that she had mistaken her direction. In her effort to recover her bearings she
become hopelessly confused, stumbled noisily over a bench, and fell headlong into the arms
of her companion.

"You had better sit down again," he remarked coolly as he returned her to her seat and sat
down calmly beside her. As he did so Peggy noted curiously the dim attractive silhouette of
his head and the remarkably good line from ear to shoulder.

"I am going at once," she said haughtily, but without moving.

"You can't," the man beside her replied, "and if you promise not to cry or fall over any more
benches I will tell you why--although I myself do not object to the latter," he continued judicially,
"but for the sake of your own bones, merely."

Peggy ignored the last.

"Why can't I go?" she said defiantly.

"Because the door is locked," he explained succinctly.

"We can both scream or you can throw a bench through the window," said Peggy triumphantly.

The unseen laughed a nice laugh that Peggy liked.

"In that latter case, beside the fact that there is no window, we would surely be had up before
the head-warden of this old jail. Besides, do you know what time it is?"

"About tea time," said Peggy who had lunched frugally at one of the tea-shops on a cup of tea
and a jam roll.

"Just before you woke up," said her companion, "I used my last match--it always is the last
in a case like this--to look at my watch. It was half-past twelve. Remember, you promised----"
at a warning gurgle from Peggy.

Then suddenly a laugh rang out sweet and clear in the darkness of the musty chapel, a laugh
that echoed into the recesses of the old tombs--perhaps in its musical cadences stirring pleasantly
the haughty slumber of their noble occupants.

"What are you laughing at?" said the voice suspiciously.

"An adventure at last!" Peggy cried, clapping her hands applaudingly.

"I am glad you take it so cheerfully," returned her companion. "There is only one thing to
do," he continued practically, "I thought it out for myself before you woke up and complicated
matters by your appearance. Of course with sufficient yelling we can arouse the barrack sentry,
and for our pains we'd probably have the whole barrack out to arrest us. There is no way in
which you can offend the noble and independent Briton more deeply than by treating lightly
his worship of royalty, dead or alive, and we would probably be held for committing lese majeste
by getting ourselves locked up with the numerous relicts of Henry the Eighth. But if we wait
until morning we can run good chances of slipping out unperceived with the first crowd of tourists."

"I feel just like the little princes in the Tower, or Queen Mary or Charlotte Corday," murmured
Peggy in ecstatic historical confusion, "or somebody noble and romantic and beheaded. I think
I shall play at being Queen Mary. I once learned a piece about her. It was very sad, but I
always stuck at the fifth line and had to sit down. Since we have to stay here till morning
we might as well amuse ourselves and you may be Rizzio."

"Who was he?" asked her companion sceptically, "sounds like one of those Italian fellows."

"He was Queen Mary's chaperon," Peggy explained vaguely, "and he sang her love songs."

"Good," said the voice agreeably.

"Can't you think of something else for me?" said the unseen, gloomily appalled by the prospect
of having doughnut recipes pronounced over his remains.

"How would you like to be Darnley?" said Peggy. "He was her husband." "I'll be Darnley," came
from the darkness so decidedly that Peggy jumped.

"You have to get blown-up right off," she hastened to add. "Darnley did."

"Oh he did, did he?" the voice spoke with deeper gloom.

"Queen Mary did it," added Peggy.

"Well, even in the Dark Ages matrimony seems to have given your sex the same privileges," philosophized
her companion cynically.

"How mean!" said Peggy coldly, "I shall play at being Elizabeth all alone."

"It wouldn't suit you," said her discarded leading man, "not with your voice."

"Why not?" said Peggy.

"Because it's not hard and cold and metallic enough. Because it has too much womanly sweetness
in it and not enough harsh masculinity."

"What a good dramatic critic you would make!" said Peggy a little spitefully, "and since you
are reading voices I can tell quite well by yours that you are fat and red faced."

The man laughed.

"And by the same token you are all sweetness and blue eyes and dearness and dimples," he punished
her. Then the banter in his tones died suddenly out.

"There's something I want to tell you," he said abruptly, with a movement that seemed in the
darkness like a sudden squaring of his shoulders. "But first I want you to tell me your name."

"What a sudden descent from romance and poetry to mere stupid facts," hedged Peggy. "Think,
in this atmosphere of royalties if it should be Bridget, or, still more horrible, Mamie."

"Please," the voice persisted in its gravity, "we have been fellow-prisoners, you know, and
you should be kind."

Peggy told him with the full three-syllabled dignity of the "Margaret."

"Mine," he continued, "is John Barrett."

"Now," cried Peggy, "if this were a proper adventure we have reached the place when I should
be able to say, 'Why! not the Jack Barrett that Brother Billy knew at Harvard?' Then you would
cry, 'And this is my old chum William's little sister Peggy that used to send him fudge!' and
then everything would be all right. But I haven't any brother at all," she finished regretfully.

"And Harvard wasn't my college," said her companion. "However," he went on, "it would take
more than the conventional backing of many brother Billies to put me right with you after I've
told you what I have to tell you."

"Then don't do it," said Peggy softly.

"If I didn't know you'd find it out in a very few minutes I wouldn't," he confessed shamelessly.
"But before I tell you I want you to know what finding you here meant to me. You've got to
realize the temptation before you can understand the fall. You always got away from me, from
that first time in Liverpool----"

"Oh!" said Peggy with a gasp.

"And at Paris and at Calais when you smiled adorably at me----"

"I didn't" said Peggy, blushing in the darkness.

"When you didn't smile adorably at me, then," pursued the voice relentlessly. "It was always
the same. I found you and you were gone--snatched away by an unkind fate in the form of your
man from Cook's. When you sailed away from me at Calais I was booked to leave that same day
from Antwerp, but I came on here after you instead. London is small--the American tourist London,
that is--the Abbey, the Museum, the galleries, and the Tower, but I seemed to miss you everywhere.
It was fate again that sent me here to find you asleep in the corner."

"Now I know you are going to tell something very foolish," said Peggy reflectively, "when people
begin to talk about fate like that you always find they are just trying to shift the responsibility."

"I want you to know it wasn't premeditated, however," pursued the voice. "It wasn't till the
guard shut the door that I thought of it. You will believe that, won't you?" he pleaded.

The dimple appeared suddenly in Peggy's cheek. There came an echo from without of many footsteps.

"And so," she took up the tale quickly, "having nicely planned it all out you shook me rudely
to wake me up, told me the door was locked, and that it was midnight when it was only four
in the afternoon. And it wasn't at all necessary to shake me so hard," she continued, "because
I woke up when you came in."

"Peggy you knew!" the voice cried with a sudden realization, "you knew and you stayed!" He
caught her hand, and in the darkness she could feel his nearness. Then suddenly the door opened
letting into the chapel a flood of bright sunlight. "Ladies and gentlemen," the sonorous voice
of the old guard came to them, "this, in the words of Macaulay, is the saddest spot on earth,"
continued the mournful recital, even as, in happy contradiction, Peggy and her American, secure
in their little recess, looked blissfully into each other's eyes.

VII

SANKEY'S DOUBLE-HEADER

A Winter's Tale

By FRANK H. SPEARMAN

THE oldest man in the train service didn't pretend to say how long Sankey had worked for the
company. Pat Francis was a very old conductor; but old man Sankey was a veteran when Pat Francis
began braking. Sankey ran a passenger train when Jimmie Brady was running--and Jimmie afterward
enlisted and was killed in the Custer fight.

There was an odd tradition about Sankey's name. He was a tall, swarthy fellow, and carried
the blood of a Sioux chief in his veins. It was in the time of the Black Hills excitement,
when railroad men, struck by the gold fever, were abandoning their trains even at way-stations
and striking across the divide for Clark's Crossing. Men to run the trains were hard to get,
and Tom Porter, trainmaster, was putting in every man he could pick up without reference to
age or color. Porter (he died at Julesburg afterward) was a great "jollier," and he wasn't
afraid of anybody on earth. One day a war party of Sioux clattered into town and tore around
like a storm. They threatened to scalp everything, even to the local tickets. They dashed in
on Tom Porter, sitting in the despatcher's office upstairs, while the despatcher was hiding
below, under a loose plank in the baggage-room floor. Tom, being bald as a sand-hill, considered
himself exempt from scalping parties anyway. He was working a game of solitaire when they bore
down on him, and got them interested in it. That led to a parley, which ended by Porter's hiring
the whole band to brake on freight trains. Old man Sankey was said to have been one of that
original war party.

Now this is merely a caboose story, told on winter nights when trainmen get stalled in the
snow that drifts down from the Sioux country. But what follows is better attested.

Sankey, to start with, had a peculiar name--an unpronounceable, unspellable, unmanageable name.
I never heard it, so I can't give it to you; but it was as hard to catch as an Indian pony,
and that name made more trouble on the payrolls than all the other names put together. Nobody
at headquarters could handle it; it was never turned in twice alike, and they were always writing
Tom Porter about the thing. Tom explained several times that it was Sitting Bull's ambassador
who was drawing that money, and that he usually signed the pay-roll with a tomahawk. But nobody
at Omaha ever knew how to take a joke. The first time Tom went down, he was called in very
solemnly to explain again about the name, and being in a hurry and very tired of the whole
business, Tom spluttered: "Hang it, don't bother me any more about that name! If you can't
read it make it Sankey, and be done with it."

They took Tom at his word. They actually did make it Sankey; and that's how our oldest conductor
came to bear the name of the famous singer. And more I may tell you: good name as it was--and
is--the Sioux never disgraced it.

I suppose every old traveler on the system knew Sankey. He was not only always ready to answer
questions; but, what is more, ready to answer the same question twice. It is that which makes
conductors gray-headed and spoils their chances for heaven--answering the same questions over
and over again. Children were apt to be startled a bit at first sight of Sankey, he was so
dark. But Sankey had a very quiet smile that always made them friends after the first trip
through the sleepers, and they sometimes ran about asking for him after he had left the train.
Of late years--and this hurts a bit--these very same children, grown ever so much bigger, and
riding again to or from California or Japan or Australia, will ask, when they reach the West
End, about the Indian conductor. But the conductors who now run the overland trains pause at
the question, checking over the date limits on the margins of the coupon tickets, and handing
the envelopes back, look at the children, and say quietly: "He isn't running any more."

If you have ever gone over our line to the mountains or to the coast, you may remember at McCloud,
where they change engines and set the diner in or out, the pretty little green park to the
east of the depot, with a row of catalpa trees along the platform line. It looks like a glass
of spring water. If it happened to be Sankey's run and a regular West End day, sunny and delightful,
you would be sure to see standing under the catalpas a shy, dark-skinned girl of fourteen or
fifteen years, silently watching the preparations for the departure of the Overland. And after
the new engine had been backed champing down, and harnessed to its long string of vestibuled
sleepers; after the air-hose had been connected and examined; after the engineer had swung
out of his cab, filled his cups, and swung in again; after the fireman and his helper had disposed
of their slice-bar and shovel and given the tender a final sprinkle, and after the conductor
had walked leisurely forward, compared time with the engineer, and cried, "All Abo-o-o-ard!"
then, as your coach moved slowly ahead, you might notice, under the receding catalpas, the
little girl waving a parasol or a handkerchief at the outgoing train. That is, at Conductor
Sankey; for she was his daughter, Neeta Sankey. Her mother was Spanish, and died when Neeta
was a wee bit. Neeta and the Limited were Sankey's whole world.

When Georgie Sinclair began pulling the Limited, running west opposite Foley, he struck up
a great friendship with Sankey. Sankey, though he was hard to start, was full of early-day
stories. Georgie, it seemed, had the faculty of getting him to talk; perhaps because when he
was pulling Sankey's train he made extraordinary efforts to keep on time; time was a hobby
with Sankey. Foley said he was so careful of it that he let his watch stop when he was off
duty just to save time. Sankey loved to breast the winds and the floods and the snows, and
if he could get home pretty near on schedule, with everybody else late, he was happy; and in
respect of that, as Sankey used to say, Georgie Sinclair could come nearer gratifying Sankey's
ambition than any engine-runner we had. Even the firemen used to observe that the young engineer,
always neat, looked still neater on the days when he took out Sankey's train.

By and by there was an introduction under the catalpas. After that it was noticed that Georgie
began wearing gloves on the engine--not kid gloves, but yellow dogskin; and black silk shirts--he
bought them in Denver. Then--such an odd way engineers have of paying compliments--when Georgie
pulled into town on Number Two, if it was Sankey's train, the big sky-scraper would give a
short, hoarse scream, a most peculiar note, just as it drew past Sankey's house, which stood
on the brow of the hill west of the yards. Thus Neeta would know that Number Two and her father,
and naturally Mr. Sinclair, were in again, and all safe and sound.

When the railway trainmen held their division fair at McCloud there was a lantern to be voted
to the most popular conductor--a gold-plated lantern with a green curtain in the globe. Cal
Stewart and Ben Doton, who were very swell conductors and great rivals, were the favorites,
and had the town divided over their chances for winning it. But at the last moment Georgie
Sinclair stepped up to the booth and cast a storm of votes for old man Sankey. Doton's friends
and Stewart's laughed at first; but Sankey's votes kept pouring in amazingly. The two favorites
got frightened; they pooled their issues by throwing Stewart's vote to Doton. But it wouldn't
do. Georgie Sinclair, with a crowd of engineers--Cameron, Kennedy, Foley, Bat Mullen, and Burns--came
back at them with such a swing that in the final five minutes they fairly swamped Doton. Sankey
took the lantern by a thousand votes. But I understood it cost Georgie and his friends a pot
of money.

Sankey said all the time that he didn't want the lantern, but just the same he always carried
that particular lantern, with his full name, Sylvester Sankey, ground into the glass just below
the green mantle. Pretty soon, Neeta being then eighteen, it was rumored that Sinclair was
engaged to Miss Sankey, and was going to marry her. And marry her he did; though that was not
until after the wreck in the Blackwood gorge after the Big Snow.

