It is proposed, as soon as possible, to establish in the metropolis a spacious edifice for
the reception of Fogies, conducted on the principle of the British and Foreign Institute, or
of such other of the clubs as may be preferred.

Hobbyhorses will be dispersed throughout the various parts of this building, suitable to the
several tastes and equestrian habits of individual Fogies. Fogies in a more advanced stage
of development, will find provided for them the playthings, pinafores, and other paraphernalia
of their first childhood. In a special apartment, to be called the "Nursery," the cradle (or
crib) of reposing age will be rocked successfully by skilful nurses or experienced Fogies,
instructed on the Mainzerian system in the most soporific lullabies.

On a future occasion, a list of the Provisional Committee will be published. It may be mentioned,
that the offices of Preses and Vice-Preses are not at present to be filled up, as it is expected
that they will eventually be conferred on His Grace the Duke of Wellington and Christopher
North, Esq., though we regret to say that our latest accounts give us no assurance that these
distinguished persons are likely very soon to join us.

Further particulars may be learned by application to Messrs Grandam and Garrulous, Cripplegate,
or any other sharebrokers in London or the provinces; to whom also communications (prepaid)
may be sent of the names and private history of illustrious Fogies, with likenesses of their
persons, or any other information calculated to promote the interests of the Club.

TRUTH AND BEAUTY.

  Beauty and Truth, in Heaven's congenial clime,
  Inseparate seen beside the Almighty throne,
  Together sprung, before the birth of time,
  From God's own glory, while he dwelt alone;--
  These, when creation made its wonders known,
  Were sent to mortals, that their mingling powers
  Might lead and lure us to ethereal bowers.

  But our perverse condition here below
  Oft sees them severed, or in conflict met:
  Oh, sad divorce! the well-spring of our woe,
  When Truth and Beauty thus their bond forget,
  And Heaven's high law is at defiance set!
  'Tis this that Good of half its force disarms,
  And gives to Evil all its direst charms.

  See Truth with harsh Austerity allied,
  Or clad in cynic garb of sordid hue:
  See him with Tyranny's fell tools supplied,
  The rack, the fagot, or the torturing screw,
  Or girt with Bigotry's besotted crew:
  What wonder, thus beheld, his looks should move
  Our scorn or hatred, rather than our love?

  See Beauty, too, in league with Vice and Shame,
  And lending all her light to gild a lie;
  Crowning with laureate-wreaths an impious name,
  Or lulling us with Siren minstrelsy
  To false repose when peril most is nigh;
  Decking things vile or vain with colours rare,
  Till what is false and foul seems good and fair.

  Hence are our hearts bewilder'd in their choice,
  And hence our feet from Virtue led astray:
  Truth calls imperious with repulsive voice
  To follow on a steep and rugged way;
  While Beauty beckons us along a gay
  And flowery path, that leads, with treacherous slope,
  To gulfs remote from happiness or hope.

  Who will bring back the world's unblemish'd youth
  When these two wander'd ever hand in hand;
  When Truth was Beauty, Beauty too was Truth,
  So link'd together with unbroken band,
  That they were one; and Man, at their command,
  Tasted of sweets that never knew alloy,
  And trod the path of Duty and of Joy?

  Chiefly the Poet's power may work the change:
  His heavenly gift, impell'd by holy zeal,
  O'er Truth's exhaustless stores may brightly range,
  And all their native loveliness reveal;
  Nor e'er, except where Truth has set his seal,
  Suffer one gleam of Beauty's grace to shine,
  But in resistless force their lights combine.

THE CAMPAIGN OF THE SUTLEJ.

Of the whole wonderful annals of our Indian Empire, the campaign of the Sutlej will form the
most extraordinary, the most brilliant, the most complete, and yet the briefest chapter. It
is an imperishable trophy, not less to the magnanimity of British policy, than to the resistlessness
of British valour. The matchless gallantry, felicity, and rapidity of the military operations
against a formidable foe of desperate bravery and overpowering numbers, through a tremendous
struggle and terrific carnage--the blaze of four mighty and decisive victories won in six weeks--proudly
seal our prowess in arms. The spotless justice of the cause; the admirable temper of its management;
the almost fastidious forbearance which unsheathed the sword only under the stern compulsion
of most wanton aggression; and the generous moderation which has swayed the flush of triumph--nobly
attest our wisdom in government. The character of a glorious warrior may fitly express the
character of a glorious war, which has been sans peur et sans reproche. To record in our pages
memorable deeds which have added lustre even to the dazzling renown of Britain, would be at
any time, but at present, we conceive, is peculiarly, a duty. The cordiality of the public
interest in these important events dwindles and shrinks, like paper in the fire, before the
intensity of that more domestic sympathy which has been every where awakened by individual
calamities. The frightful cost at which we have purchased success, may be heard and seen in
the wail and the gloom round a multitude of hearths. No dauntless courage was more conspicuous,--alas!
no gallant life-blood was poured out more copiously,--than that of the sons of Scotland. The
eternal sunshine of glory which irradiates the memory of the fallen brave, may be yet too fierce
a light for the aching eye of grief to read by; but we thought that a simple consecutive recital
of the recent exploits of our army in India would be unwelcome to none. Designedly we mean
to write nothing more than a narrative; and, in doing so, to use, as far as it is possible,
the very words of the official reports of those distinguished men, who leave us sometimes in
doubt whether the pen or the sword is the more potent weapon in their hands. A few reflections
and remarks will probably inweave themselves with the tissue of the story, just because such
things cannot be told or heard without a quickening of the pulse, a glow upon the cheek, a
beating in the heart. Otherwise we shall attempt to be "such an honest chronicler as Griffith."
It is indispensable, however, not only to preface the details of the campaign with a concise
description of the condition of the disordered and degraded people whom our enmity and vengeance
smote so heavily; but likewise to explain, with some degree of minuteness, the views and purposes
which, from first to last, influenced our Indian government in its conduct of these delicate,
and ultimately momentous transactions, in order fully to appreciate the union of moderation
and energy which, under the auspices of Sir Henry Hardinge as governor-general of India, and
Sir Hugh Gough as commander o the army of the Sutlej, has satisfied the world that right and
might were equally on the side of Britain.

Since the death, in 1839, of the famous Runjeet Singh, when the sacred waters of the Ganges
received the ashes of the greatest of the Sikhs, it is impossible for language to exaggerate
the anarchy, the depravity, the misery of the Punjaub. Tigers, and wolves, and apes, have been
the successors of the "Old Lion." The predominant spirit of that energetic and sagacious ruler
bridled the licentious turbulence which for the last seven years has rioted in the unrestrained
indulgence of all abominable vices, and in the daily perpetration of the most atrocious crimes.
Five Maharajahs in this brief period, "all murdered," have been sacrificed to the ambition
of profligate courtiers, or the rapacity of a debauched soldiery. Kurruck Singh, the son of
Runjeet Singh, and the inheritor of an overflowing treasury and a disciplined and numerous
army, was an uneducated idiot, and easily induced to frown upon his father's able favourite,
the Rajah Dhyan Singh, and to invest his own confidential adviser, the Sirdar Cheyk Singh,
with the authority, if not the title, of his prime-minister. But the humiliated Rajah found
the ready means of revenge in the family of his incapable sovereign. The Prince Noo Nehal Singh
lent a willing ear to the tempting suggestions of a counsellor who only echoed the inordinate
desires of his own ambition. At midnight, in the private apartment and at the feet of the Maharajah,
the Sirdar Cheyk Singh was assassinated by his rival. The murder of the favourite was rapidly
followed by the deposition of Kurruck Singh, and the elevation to the throne of the prince,
his son. The court of Lahore was now convulsed by dark intrigues, and debased by brutal sensuality.
The ineradicable spirit of hatred against every thing British, vented itself harmlessly in
the bravadoes of the tyrant; but was more dangerously inflamed among many of the native powers
of India, by the secret diffusion of a project for a general and simultaneous insurrection.
A double mystery of villany saved us, probably, at that time from the shocks and horrors of
war in which we have been recently involved. The deposed Kurruck Singh suddenly expired--a
victim, it was whispered, to the insidious efficacy of slow and deadly poison, intermingled,
as his son knew, in small quantities every day with his food. The lightning-flash of retribution
descended. On the return from the funeral of Kurruck, the elephant which bore the parricidal
majesty of Noo Nehal Singh pushed against the brick-work of the palace-gates, when the whole
fabric fell with a crash, and so dreadfully fractured the skull of the Maharajah that he never
spoke afterwards, and died in a few hours.

The power or the policy of Dhyan Singh then bestowed the perilous gift of this bloody sceptre
upon Prince Shere, a reputed son of Runjeet, Singh. His legitimacy was immediately denounced,
and his government opposed by the mother of his predecessor, who actively assumed, and for
three or four months conducted, the regency of the state. The capricious attachment of the
army, however, to the cause of Shere Singh turned the current of fortune; and the Queen-Mother
might seem to have laid aside the incumbrance of her royal apparel, to be more easily strangled
by her own slave girls. The accession of Shere Singh opened the floodgates of irretrievable
disorder; for the troops, to whom he owed his success, and on whose venal steadiness the stability
of his sway depended, conscious from their position, that, however insolently exorbitant in
their demands, they were able to throw the weight of their swords into the scale, clamoured
for an increase of their pay, and the dismissal of all the officers who were obnoxious to them.
The refusal of their imperious request had a result we are fortunately not obliged to depict;
nor, without a shudder, can we barely allude to it. The ruffian and remorseless violence of
lawless banditti occupied and ravaged the city and the plain. The story of their plunder of
Lahore is rendered hideous by every outrage that humanity can suffer, and by a promiscuous
carnage, for which the ferocity of unreasoning animals might pant, but which the untiring fury
of the wildest of brutes, the human savage, alone could protract beyond satiety. The finger
of their murderous rage pointed to every assailable European officer, of whom some were assassinated,
some very narrowly escaped. Months rolled on under the terrible dominion of these uncontrollable
miscreants, while the length and the breadth of the land were scourged by their cruelty, polluted
by their lust, and desolated by their rapine. The pestilence was partially arrested by a glut
of gold. A treasure of many lacs of rupees being intercepted on its way to Lahore, enriched
and mollified its captors. But at last, gorged with slaughter, and surfeited with excess, they
modified their claims within limits to which the government intimated its willingness to accede.
The incurable evil was consummated. Henceforward the army has been its own master, and the
master of the government and the country. A transitory mirage of internal tranquillity and
subordination refreshed the Punjaub; the fiery elements of discord and ruin smouldered unextinguishably
behind it, awaiting the necessity or the opportunity of a fresh eruption. The volcano was not
permitted to slumber. Shere Singh, liberated from the imminent oppression of the soldiery,
plunged headlong into a slough of detestable debauchery. But in our annals his memory must survive,

  "Link'd with one virtue and a thousand crimes."

Influenced by what good genius, or by what prescient timidity, it may be difficult to discover,
he was true to the British interest, and remained obstinately deaf to the seductive animosity
of the Sikh council, which was prone to take advantage of the disasters in Caubul, and to attack
the avenging army of Sir George Pollock in its passage to Peshawer. Loyalty to England was
little less than an act of treason to the Sikh chieftains and the Sikh soldiery, which, added
to the Maharajah's total neglect of public business, accelerated a fatal conspiracy by his
brother-in-law Ajeet Singh, and Dhyan Singh, "the close contriver of all harms." Shere Singh,
being invited to inspect his brother-in-law's cavalry at a short distance from Lahore, was
there shot by Ajeet. The assassin, riding quietly back to the city, met on the way the carriage
of Dhyan Singh, dismounted, and, seating himself beside his accomplice in guilt, stabbed him
to the heart. Now came confusion worse confounded. The nobles were divided; while the troops,
as their inclinations or their hopes of pillage prompted them, flocked to the conflicting standards.
Ajeet, after murdering the whole of the late Maharajah's family, including an infant one day
old, fortified himself in the citadel of Lahore, from which he was dislodged to be immediately
beheaded by Heera Singh, the son of the Rajah Dhyan Singh.

Then it was, that, under the auspices of Heera Singh, the present Maharajah, Dhuleep Singh,
a mere boy, and the alleged offspring of old Runjeet Singh, was raised to the throne of the
Sikhs. The army again renewed the formidable pretensions which had formerly distracted and
wasted the Punjaub, and with which Heera Singh was now forced to comply. But the powers of
the throne were prostrate. The infant Maharajah, a puppet in the hands of intriguing kinsmen,
or of the ungovernable army, passively witnessed the slaughter of a succession of his principal
rajahs who aspired to be his ministers, and each of whom raised himself a step nearer the summit
of his desire upon the butchered body of his predecessor. A glow, perhaps, of undefinable pleasure
may have warmed the heart of the child, who wore

        "upon his baby brow the round
  And top of sovereignty,"

when he saw the horrible drama apparently closed by his mother taking upon herself the responsibility
and duties of the administration of affairs. She was a more helpless slave than himself. There
was but one man in the Punjaub who could have aided her in her extremity. Neither of them could
trust the other. Goolab Singh, a brother of Dhyan Singh, had been playing a safe game throughout
the complicated troubles in which so many were overwhelmed. Bad as the worst, unscrupulously
villanous, profoundly treacherous, detestably profligate and exciting behind the scenes discontent,
mutiny, tumult, and massacre, he appeared occasionally on the stage to check or perplex the
plot, as it suited his purposes. His arm never visibly reached to any point from which it could
not be safely drawn back; but his hand was stirring every mischief. He was well aware of the
insane and unappeasable passion for a war with the British which had long infected the whole
Sikh army. He saw, we believe, the inevitable collision and the inevitable issue. With an infant
on the throne, and a woman as prime-minister, the barrier to the torrent was a shadow. And
so it happened. The voice of authority was drowned by the thundering tread of thousands and
tens of thousands on their march to the Sutlej. Goolab Singh, folding himself in the cloak
of neutrality, crouched, cat-like, to watch the vicissitudes of the contest.

The condition of the Punjaub necessarily attracted the anxious attention of our Indian government.
The horizon grew blacker every hour, as the total inability of the authorities at Lahore to
subdue or restrain the refractory and warlike spirit of the Sikh army, was made more and more
manifest in unmistakable characters of blood and violence. Upon the 22d of last November, the
Governor-General of India, while moving from Delhi to join the Commander-in-Chief in his camp
at Umballah, received from the political agent, Major Broadfoot, an official despatch, dated
the 20th November, detailing the sudden intention of the Sikh army to advance in force to the
frontier, for the avowed purpose of invading the British territories. This despatch was succeeded
by a private communication of the following day, stating the same facts, and inclosing news,
letters, and papers of intelligence received from Lahore, which professed to give an account
of the circumstances which had led to the movement, which would appear (if these papers are
to be depended upon) to have originated with the Ranee and certain of the sirdars, who felt
the pressure of the demands of the army to be so urgent, and its present attitude and temper
so perilous to their existence, that they desired to turn the thoughts of the troops to objects
which might divert their attention from making extortionate demands for higher pay, by employing
their energies in hostile operations against the British government.[13]

We shall quote the substance of Major Broadfoot's letters, presenting, as they do, a curious
picture of the chaos of matters on the other side of the Sutlej, and forming, likewise, important
links in the narrative. The following extracts are taken from his communications on the 20th
and 21st of November to the Governor-General and the Commander-in-Chief:--

     "I have received Lahore letters of the 18th instant (morning).

     "During the night of the 17th the chiefs had agreed on, and the
     Durbar had ordered in writing, the following plan of operations:--

     "The army was to be divided into seven divisions, one to remain at
     Lahore, and the rest to proceed against Roopar and our hills,
     Loodianah, Hurreekee, Ferozepore, and Seinde, while one was to
     proceed to Peshawer; and a force under Rajah Goolab Singh was to be
     sent to Attock.

     "Each division was to be of 8,000 to 12,000 men against Ferozepore,
     under Sham Singh Attareewallah, whose estates adjoin the place
     against which it was to act. Against Hurreekee is to go Rajah Lal
     Singh; against Loodianah, Sirdar Tej Singh, the new
     commander-in-chief; and against Roopar, a brother of Sena Singh
     Mujeeteea.

     "The force under Sham Singh is to be 4,000 horse, and two brigades
     of infantry, with guns; under Raja Lal Singh, 4,500 horse, and two
     infantry brigades; under Sirdar Tej Singh, four brigades of
     infantry (one of them irregulars, and one new levies) and 1,000
     horse, &c; but till the plans of the Durbar are in actual
     execution, they cannot be considered fixed, and therefore I do not
     trouble our Excellency with further details.

     "With respect to the probability of their actually moving, I must
     say that my correspondents in Lahore seem to doubt it, though they
     are perplexed."

            *       *       *       *       *

     "The Durbar of the forenoon of the 18th was protracted till 2
     o'clock, but I have not the details of the afternoon Durbar.

     "11 A.M. was the hour found by the astrologers as auspicious for
     the march of the troops; not a chief stirred from his house. The
     officers and punchayets of the troops, regular and irregular, to
     the number of a couple of thousand, crowded to the Durbar and
     demanded the reason; the Ranee tried to soothe them, saying, that
     the fortunate hour being passed, the march could not be undertaken
     till the astrologers found another. The crowd demanded that this
     should be instantly done, and the court astrologer was ordered into
     their presence to find the proper time. He pored through his tables
     for two or three hours, while the Ranee sought to divert the
     attention of the military mob; at length he announced that the
     most favourable day was not till the 15th Mujsur (28th November).
     The military were furious, and declared that he was an impostor,
     and that they had to get from him two crores of rupees which he had
     made from the public money; the pundit implored mercy, and said the
     7th Mujsur (20th) was also a good day; the military were still
     angry, and the poor pundit left amidst their menaces.

     "They proposed that the Ranee and her son should march, and
     intimated that till they made an example of some chief no march
     would take place.

     "The Ranee complained that whilst the troops were urging the march,
     they were still going home to their villages as fast as they got
     their pay; and Sirdar Sham Singh Attareewallah declared his belief,
     that unless something was done to stop this, he would find himself
     on his way to Ferozepore with empty tents. The bait of money to be
     paid, and to accompany them, was also offered, and at length the
     Durbar broke up at 2 P.M. Great consultations took place in the
     afternoon, but I know only one result, that the Ranee had to give
     to her lover his formal dismissal, and that he (Rajah Lal Singh)
     actually went into the camp of the Sawars he is to command, and
     pitched his tent.

     "What the Ranee says is quite true of the sepoys dispersing to
     their houses; the whole affair has so suddenly reached its present
     height, that many of the men themselves think it will come to
     nothing, and still more who had taken their departure do not
     believe it serious enough to go back. On the day after this scene
     took place, i. e., the 19th, the usual stream of sepoys, natives
     of the protected states, who had got their pay, poured across the
     Sutlej, at Hurreekee, on their way to their homes. Every
     preparation, however, for war is making with probably more energy
     than if it had been a long-planned scheme; for every person of
     whatever party must show his sincerity by activity and virulent
     professions of hatred to the English."

It is proper to add, that Major Broadfoot also announces, that when the Sikh intrigues and
commotions assumed a serious form, he had addressed an official letter of remonstrance through
the proper channel to Lahore. Five days after these letters were written, on the 26th of November,
the Commander-in-Chief and Major Broadfoot joined, at Kurnaul, the Governor-General, who shall
be the exponent of his own impressions, intentions, and plans:--

     "I had the satisfaction of concurring in all the orders which his
     Excellency had given, to hold the troops in readiness to move at
     the shortest notice, and in the instructions which he had sent to
     the officers in command of the stations at Ferozepore and
     Loodianah. The force at the former post consists of one European
     regiment, seven regiments of native infantry, two regiments of
     native cavalry, and twenty-four field-guns, exclusive of heavy
     ordnance. The force at Loodianah consists of one regiment of
     Europeans, five regiments of native infantry, one regiment of
     native cavalry, and two troops of horse artillery.

     "After a full and satisfactory consultation with his Excellency,
     and taking into consideration the improbability of the Sikh army
     crossing the Sutlej, I determined that no movement should be made
     towards the river by the forces from Umballah and Meerut, and I
     postponed for further consideration with his Excellency any change
     in the present distribution of the troops; eventually some
     alterations will be made, which, when they have been finally
     determined upon between me and the Commander-in-Chief, will be
     reported to you. At the present moment, his Excellency coincides
     with me, that no forward movement is required.

     "In the midst of much hesitation and irresolution, the enterprise
     ordered by the Sikh government does not appear to have been
     formally abandoned; the intelligence received by Major Broadfoot on
     the day of his joining my camp, showed that the three brigades of
     the Sikh force had actually left Lahore a few miles in advance, to
     be followed the next morning by three other brigades including one
     of artillery. This was on the 24th ultimo. The intelligence
     received from that date has been communicated to me by Major
     Broadfoot each day, as it arrives.

     "It is said they intend, in reply to Major Broadfoot's
     remonstrance, to allege that the fact of our having collected so
     large a force, with all the munitions of war, on the frontier, is
     the cause of the concentration of their forces on the Sutlej; that
     they intend to demand the reasons of our preparations; to insist on
     the surrender to the Lahore government of the treasure which
     belonged to the late Rajah Soocheyt Singh; the restoration by the
     Rajah of Nabba of the village of Mowran, escheated by the Rajah,
     and the escheat confirmed by us; and henceforth the free passage of
     their troops into the Lahore possessions on this side the Sutlej.

     "I need only remark, on the first and most essential point, that
     the Sikh army did in the beginning of last January prepare to move
     to the Sutlej. The political agent remonstrated, and the troops
     were withdrawn; the reason then assigned for the movement being the
     same as that now intended to be brought forward, namely, the state
     of our military preparations on the frontier. The Governor-General
     in Council, in a despatch to Major Broadfoot of the 25th January
     1845, entered into very full explanations, which were conveyed to
     the Lahore Vakeel.

     "As regards the past, it is clear that no cause of complaint has
     been given by the government of India. If it should be asserted
     that our military preparations this autumn have given offence, the
     assertion is equally unfounded, and is a mere pretext for hostile
     proceedings, which have originated in the political weakness and
     the internal dissensions of the Lahore government; and, above all,
     in their desire to be released, on any terms, from the terror which
     the ferocity of their own troops has inspired. The proof is to be
     found in the fact, that at the time these disorderly movements
     commenced, no additional British troops had reached our frontier
     stations. The additional regiment of native infantry, destined for
     the reinforcement of Ferozepore, had not arrived. At Loodianah one
     of the two regiments of native cavalry had actually marched for
     Scinde before it was relieved, leaving that post, as it is at
     present, with one regiment, instead of the usual complement of two
     regiments of cavalry. At the other stations no alterations had been
     made, and the troops which had marched were peaceably engaged in
     completing the annual reliefs according to custom at this season.

     "Such is the state of affairs at the present moment, and although
     my conviction is strong that the Sikh army will be deterred from
     acts of aggression, on account of the state of our military
     preparation, yet it is by no means impossible that we may be forced
     at any moment into war, and that operations, on a very extended
     scale, may be immediately necessary.

     "My views and measures will be anxiously directed to avoid a
     recourse to arms, as long as it may be possible. On this point my
     determination is fixed. At the same time it is very apparent, from
     the general aspect of affairs, that the period is fast approaching
     when further changes will take place at Lahore, and that the weak
     government of the regent will be subverted by the violence of the
     troops, instigated by the intrigues of the party favourable to the
     Rajah Goolab Singh.

     "I shall not consider the march of the Sikh troops in hostile array
     towards the banks of the Sutlej as a cause justifying hostilities,
     if no actual violation of our frontier should occur. The same
     privilege which we take to adopt precautionary measures on our side
     must be conceded to them. Every forbearance shall be shown to a
     weak government, struggling for assistance against its own soldiers
     in a state of successful mutiny."[14]

A week later, no act of open hostility having yet been committed, the Governor-General, then
in the camp at Umballah, was informed that the authorized agent of the court of Lahore had
joined the camp. Major Broadfoot was immediately directed to see the Vakeel, and to require
from him a reply to the remonstrance, which, as we have said, had been previously made against
the proceedings that had taken place at the time it was written. At this conference the Vakeel
asserted that he had received no reply from the Durbar at Lahore. The Governor-General acted
with the utmost temperance:--

     "When Major Broadfoot reported to me, in the evening, the result of
     this interview, I immediately directed him to address to the Vakeel
     the written communication, a copy of which is inclosed.

     "I considered that it was absolutely necessary, on my arrival at
     Umballah, to take decided notice of the extraordinary proceedings
     that had taken place, and were stated to be still in progress. It
     was evident I could not permit the political agent's
     communications, in the face of what was going on at Lahore, to be
     treated with disregard. I took the mildest course in my power,
     consistently with the dignity, position, and interests of the
     British government. I purposely left an opening to the Lahore
     government to remedy, through its Vakeel, the discourtesy it had
     shown, by affording to that government the facility of making any
     explanation it might desire. The plain construction to be put on
     the silence of the Lahore government, in reply to the demand for
     explanation, evidently was, that the intentions of that government
     were hostile, in which case I did not deem it to be expedient to
     give to that government the leisure to complete their hostile
     preparations; whilst, on my part, I had abstained from making any
     movement, expressly for the purpose of avoiding any cause of
     jealousy or alarm; thus according to the Maharajah's government the
     strongest proof of the good faith and forbearance of the British
     government.

     "I am satisfied that the course I have adopted was imperatively
     required; and before I authorize any precautionary movements to be
     made, I shall give full time for a reply to be received from
     Lahore."

The letter which narrates these proceedings concludes thus:--

     "This morning, news up to the 1st inst. has been received. The
     Ranee and sirdars are becoming more and more urgent that the army
     should advance to the frontier, believing that, in the present
     posture of affairs, the only hope of saving their lives and
     prolonging their power is to be found in bringing about a collision
     with the British forces. The Sikh army moves with evident
     reluctance, and is calling for Goolab Singh, who is collecting
     forces at Jumboo, and is watching the progress of events.

     "My own impression remains unaltered. I do not expect that the
     troops will come as far as the banks of the Sutlej, or that any
     positive act of aggression will be committed; but it is evident
     that the Ranee and chiefs are, for their own preservation,
     endeavouring to raise a storm, which, when raised, they will be
     powerless either to direct or allay.

     "I shall, as I have before said, await the reply from Lahore to
     Major Broadfoot's last communication to the Vakeel.

     "If the reply from the ostensible government, acting under the
     control and at the discretion of the army, is hostile, I shall at
     once order up troops from Meerut, and other stations, to the
     support of our advanced positions, persevering up to the last
     moment in the sincere desire to avoid hostilities."[15]

We cannot, with any honesty, suppress our conviction that forbearance was here pushed to the
very verge of safety. The sullen silence of the Lahore government, as its only answer to our
most legitimate demand for an explanation of its menacing attitude, it seems to us, would have
been a complete justification of such a movement of our forces as might have concentrated them,
by a march of one day, instead of six days, on the banks of the Sutlej, and in the face of
the enemy. Had such a step hastened the rupture, who could righteously blame us for the result?
But, as it happened, the trumpet of the Sikhs which summoned us to the dreadful appeal of battle
could not have sounded sooner than it did, and we should have entered the mortal lists every
way at less disadvantage, without the odds against us, which the disparity of numbers rendered
formidable enough, being multiplied an hundred-fold by the physical exhaustion of each individual
soldier in our ranks.

The disbelief in the probability of any serious hostility still filled the mind of the Governor-General,
when, upon the 6th of December, he moved from Umballah towards Loodianah, peaceably prosecuting
his visitation of the Sikh protected states, according to the usual custom of his predecessors.
"In common with the most experienced officers of the Indian government," he writes,

     "I was not of opinion that the Sikh army would cross the Sutlej
     with its infantry and artillery.

     "I considered it probable that some act of aggression would be
     committed by parties of plunderers, for the purpose of compelling
     the British government to interfere, to which course the Sikh
     chiefs knew I was most averse; but I concurred with the
     Commander-in-Chief, and the chief Secretary to the Government, as
     well as with my political agent, Major Broadfoot, that offensive
     operations, on a large scale, would not be resorted to.

     "Exclusive of the political reasons which induced me to carry my
     forbearance as far as it was possible, I was confident, from the
     opinions given by the Commander-in-Chief and Major-general Sir John
     Littler, in command of the forces at Ferozepore, that that post
     would resist any attack from the Sikh army as long as its
     provisions lasted; and that I could at any time relieve it, under
     the ordinary circumstances of an Asiatic army making an irruption
     into our territories, provided it had not the means of laying siege
     to the fort and the intrenched camp.

     "Up to this period no act of aggression had been committed by the
     Sikh army. The Lahore government had as good a right to reinforce
     their bank of the river Sutlej, as we had to reinforce our posts on
     that river.

     "The Sikh army had, in 1843 and 1844, moved down upon the river
     from Lahore, and, after remaining there encamped a few weeks, had
     returned to the capital. These reasons, and above all my extreme
     anxiety to avoid hostilities, induced me not to make any hasty
     movement with our army, which, when the two armies came into each
     other's presence, might bring about a collision.

     "The army had, however, been ordered to be in readiness to move at
     the shortest notice; and, on the 7th and 8th December, when I heard
     from Lahore that preparations were making on a large scale for
     artillery, stores, and all the munitions of war, I wrote to the
     Commander-in-Chief, directing his Excellency, on the 11th, to move
     up the force from Umballah, from Meerut, and some other stations in
     the rear.

     "Up to this time no infantry or artillery had been reported to have
     left Lahore, nor had a single Sikh soldier crossed the Sutlej.
     Nevertheless, I considered it prudent no longer to delay the
     forward movement of our troops, having given to the Lahore
     government the most ample time for a reply to our remonstrance."

During the four days following the 8th of December, the fluctuating intelligence from Lahore,
although, on the whole, more cloudy than formerly, was not of a character to shake the prevalent
opinion that no Sikh movement, on a large scale, was intended, and that the Sikh army would
not cross the Sutlej. On the 13th, the Governor-General first received precise information
that the Sikh army had crossed the Sutlej, and was forming in great force on the left bank
of the river, in order to attack Ferozepore, which was occupied by a British force of little
more than five thousand men.

In the mean time the Umballah division of our troops had been in movement towards the Sutlej
for three days; but as this force, if intercepted by a large Sikh army, was not considered
sufficiently strong to force its way to the relief of Ferozepore, the Governor-General directed
the whole garrison, amounting to five thousand men and twenty-one guns, of Loodianah, even
at the risk of leaving that town and its cantonments exposed to capture and plunder, to effect
a junction with the Umballah division. By a rapid march the Loodianah troops formed the advanced
column of the army, and secured the supplies which had been laid in at Busseean, an important
point, where the roads from Umballah and Kurnaul meet. On the 18th of December the British
forces, having moved up by double marches on alternate days, reached, and, with the exception
of two European and two native regiments, were concentrated at MOODKEE, twenty miles from Ferozepore.
How easy it is for us to describe, in a single sentence, the results of the irrepressible spirit
and indefatigable exertions of those gallant men! In seven days they had traversed, over roads
of heavy sand, a distance of upwards of one hundred and fifty miles, while their perpetual
toil allowed them scarcely leisure to cook what scanty food they could procure, and hardly
an hour for sleep. Four-and-twenty hours had elapsed since their parched lips were moistened
by a single drop of water, when these exhausted but indomitable troops, a little after mid-day,
took up their encamping ground in front of Moodkee. But their toil had not begun. Never, surely,
were the harassing fatigues of so laborious a march alleviated by a more terrible refreshment.
The way-worn warriors had not halted two hours, and were engaged in cooking their meals, when
they were startled by a sudden order to get under arms, and move to their positions. The Sikh
army was at hand in battle array.

The more awful combats of Ferozeshah and Sobraon must not eclipse the brightness of Moodkee,
which revealed so vividly, even under that "dim starlight," the elastic vigour of the British
spirit.

Hunger, and thirst, and weariness vanished at once, as, with the alacrity and precision of
a peaceful parade, our enthusiastic regiments moved into their positions, and impetuously advanced
to encounter an enemy who mustered his host in myriads. On they swept like a hurricane. "The
only fault found," are the words of an officer present in the engagement, "was, that the men
were too fresh, and could not be kept from running at the enemy." Outflanking us by masses
of infantry and swarms of cavalry--tearing us to tatters by the swift destruction from their
immense and beautiful artillery--it fared with the Sikhs, before the stemless tide of British
ardour, as with the Philistines before Samson--

  "When unsupportably his foot advanced,"
  --"In scorn of their proud arms and warlike tools,"
  "Spurn'd them to death by troops."--

The moral effect upon our soldiers of this battle, we may believe to have been decisive of
the campaign. The prodigious preponderance of the Sikhs in numerical strength; the weight,
and celerity, and accuracy of their batteries; their stanch and obstinate courage, which often
went down only before the intolerable contact of the bayonet, had been made undeniably manifest.
What had they availed against our imperturbable intrepidity, under circumstances and at a moment
in which we might have thrown, almost without dishonour, the blame of discomfiture upon physical
infirmities, that overmaster the brave and the strong as relentlessly as the timid and feeble?
What would they avail, when the chances were fairer for us--the collision more even? When the
fight at Moodkee was done, there was not, of the surviving victors, a Queen's soldier or a
sepoy who had not already settled to his own satisfaction the whole campaign of the Sutlej,
in the pithy but comprehensive conviction, that he should drub the Sikhs whenever he met them.
The logician smiles at the vulnerable reasoning; the soldier smiles, too, and feels himself
clad in better armour than steel or brass. There had been a reciprocal amicable emulation every
where prevalent throughout the battle, between the officers and the men, between our Indian
and our European troops. The Governor-General shared all the perils of the field; Sale and
M'Caskill "foremost fighting fell;" while our native regiments vied with, and were not excelled
by, their British comrades in active daring or unswerving steadiness. One temper, one will,
and a universal mutual confidence, thrilled through, cemented, and fired the whole mass.

On the day after the battle, the Sikhs having retired upon their intrenchments at Ferozeshah,
orders were sent to direct Sir John Littler, with the Ferozepore force, to join as soon as
possible the main army. The relief of Ferozepore--threatened, according to the first reports
received by the Governor-General, by the Sikh army en masse--had been his primary object in
those rapid marches which brought him to Moodkee. It now appears that, on the 13th of December,
Sir John Littler had moved out of Ferozepore into camp, and on the 15th took up a strong position
at a village about two miles to the southeast of his encampment, in order to intercept the
anticipated attack on the city. The Sikh camp was distinctly visible, and supposed to contain
60,000 men, with 120 guns. Three days passed without even a demonstration of active hostility;
and on the night of the 17th, the Sikhs were moving away to meet the Governor-General. On the
evening of the 20th, therefore, Sir John Littler had no difficulty in instantly obeying the
orders from Moodkee, and in arriving next morning at headquarters in time to share the peril
and the glory of one of the most dreadful contests in which we were ever engaged in Europe
or in Asia. The inaction of the Sikhs at Ferozepore is, in the present state of our information,
unintelligible; but it would be an idle waste of time and space to speculate upon the consequences
of a peril which did not assail us, or harrow our minds with the probability of disasters and
difficulties from which we never suffered.

At Moodkee, our army, for most needful repose, and fully to prepare for a more gigantic effort,
rested two days. In this interval the Governor-General took a step which has not escaped comment,
in offering to the Commander-in-Chief his services as second in command of the army. He did
right. Battalions and brigades could hardly have strengthened the hands of the general, and
invigorated the spirits of the troops, so much as the active accession of Hardinge. Prim etiquette
may pucker its thin lips, and solemn discretion knit its ponderous brows; but neither discipline
nor prudence ran any risk of being injured or affronted by the veteran of the Peninsula. What
the exigency required, he knew; what the exigency exacted, he performed. That those who censure
would not have imitated his conduct, in defiance of the admonitions of the hundred-throated
Sikh ordnance, we may allowably imagine. Such critics, being themselves governors-general,
would probably have received beneath the cool verandas of Calcutta the news of the tempestuous
bivouacs of Ferozeshah. For ourselves, we learn with pride and satisfaction, that when offensive
operations were resumed on the morning of the 21st of December, the charge and direction of
the left wing of the army was committed to Lieutenant-General Sir Henry Hardinge.

     "Breaking up on that morning from Moodkee, our columns of all arms"
     (so writes the Commander-in-Chief) "debouched four miles on the
     road to Ferozeshah, where it was known that the enemy, posted in
     great force and with a most formidable artillery, had remained
     since the action of the 18th, incessantly employed in intrenching
     his position. Instead of advancing to the direct attack of their
     formidable works, our force manoeuvred to their right; the second
     and fourth divisions of infantry in front, supported by the first
     division and cavalry in second line, continued to defile for some
     time out of cannon-shot between the Sikhs and Ferozepore. The
     desired effect was not long delayed: a cloud of dust was seen on
     our left, and, according to the instructions sent him on the
     preceding evening, Major-General Sir John Littler, with his
     division, availing himself of the offered opportunity, was
     discovered in full march to unite his force with mine. The junction
     was soon effected, and thus was accomplished one of the great
     objects of all our harassing marches and privations, in the relief
     of this division of our army from the blockade of the numerous
     forces by which it was surrounded.

     "Dispositions were now made for a united attack on the enemy's
     intrenched camp. We moved against the last-named face, the ground in
     front of which was, like the Sikh position in Moodkee, covered with
     low jungle. The attack began about three o'clock in the afternoon, and was
urged incessantly for six hours in the face of the devastating storm of
the Sikh batteries, which, with one continuous roar of thunder, blurted
forth agony, and mutilation, and death upon their assailants. On the
bare cold earth--the night was bitterly, intensely cold--with no food
and no water--the living and the dying, in their exhaustion and torture,
lay with the dead in their tranquillity. Broadfoot, with a happier fate,
had already yielded up his spirit; Somerset, sensible, but helplessly
benumbed, was lingering through the tedious hours, to die in the
morning, knolled by the shouts of victory. All night long "the havoc did
not cease." In the very noon of darkness, a sleepless rest was invaded
and broken by such extraordinary efforts as those to which the
Governor-General in person excited the 80th and 1st European light
infantry. And it well merits remembrance, what we know from other
sources, that in these midnight charges, the men fell into the ranks so
noiselessly and swiftly, that they were ready to advance before their
officers were aware of their commands being generally understood.

            *       *       *       *       *

     "The loss of this army has been heavy; how could a hope be formed
     that it should be otherwise? Within thirty hours this force stormed
     an intrenched camp, fought a general action, and sustained two
     considerable combats with the enemy. Within four days it has
     dislodged from their positions, on the left bank of the Sutlej,
     60,000 Sikh soldiers, supported by upwards of 150 pieces of cannon,
     108 of which the enemy acknowledge to have lost, and 91 of which
     are in our possession.

     "In addition to our losses in the battle, the captured camp was
     found to be every where protected by charged mines, by the
     successive springing of which many brave officers and men have been
     destroyed."[17]

Was there ever harder fighting? No--not even a month afterwards at Sobraon. For two-and-twenty
hours, from three o'clock on the afternoon of the 21st till one o'clock after mid-day of the
22d, the combat--unremitted, as we have seen, even beneath the shade of night--endured, and
deepened as it endured, having raged with appalling fury in its very termination. The intrenched
Sikh camp was literally a fortress, occupied by a great army not untutored in European discipline,
and protected by enormous batteries of heavy ordnance, which were served so rapidly, and pointed
so truly, as to elicit the unqualified admiration of the victims of their efficiency. Against
this bristling rock, while, wave after wave, our sea of battle surged and reverberated, dark
clouds of Sikh cavalry, hovering on all sides, sent forth at opportune conjunctures their sweeping
whirlwinds, which either destroyed those ranks, whose compact array was broken by eagerness
and the nature of the ground, or more frequently forced our infantry suddenly to form into
squares beneath the iron tempest of a demolishing artillery. With difficulty and labour our
heroic soldiers had but breached, and surmounted, and gained footing within the fortifications,
when the earth, heaving and opening with the successive explosion of charged mines, hurled
into fragments scores of those who had passed unscathed through the ordeal of manly warfare
with confronting foes. But moat and mound, cannon and cavern, were at length overleapt, silenced
and exhausted. Still was it "double, double, toil and trouble." With fresh reinforcements of
men, backed as ever by a massive artillery, the enemy repeatedly attempted to retrieve his
loss, and regain his camp. To his incessant fire, we could not answer with a single shot; our
ammunition was gone. Frustrating his manoeuvres, what else remained to do was done with the
hard steel of the bayonet, and hand to hand with the good sword. And thus were earned the laurels
of Ferozeshah.

Over the carnage of such battle-fields, we would glance hastily. At Moodkee, of the British,
fell two hundred and fifteen; at Ferozeshah, six hundred and ninety-four, gallant men and faithful
soldiers. The long lists, also, of the wounded, which catalogue six hundred and fifty-seven
sufferers at Moodkee, and swell to one thousand seven hundred and twenty-one at Ferozeshah,
painfully attest the severity of the struggle, and the deadly precision of the foe. But the
foe! who has numbered his dead? None; nor ever will. The pall of a decent oblivion has been
tacitly cast upon the incalculable amount of his loss, which has exceeded the utmost extent
of British loss, as much as his hordes of living warriors outnumbered by tens of thousands
the British force at the dawn of the eventful day which looked on Moodkee--the Agincourt of
India. "Is it not lawful," asks honest Fluellen, "to tell how many is killed?" "Yes," is the
answer of our Fifth Harry--"Yes, captain; but with this acknowledgment, that God fought for us."

The route of the Sikhs at Ferozeshah was succeeded by nearly a month employed, as we are now
aware, by both sides in making preparations, offensive and defensive, for further serious exertions.
The Sikh army, upon its overthrow, retired, not in confusion and haste, but steadily and easily,
towards the Sutlej, which they crossed about the 27th of December. They recrossed, however,
soon after, and worked indefatigably in rearing those magnificent and powerful fortifications
at Sobraon, with which we are yet destined in the course of our narrative to come into rude
collision. The Governor-General, on the other hand, was busy in collecting and amassing the
munitions of war of every description, for the purpose of forcing, if opposed, the passage
of the Sutlej, and carrying his victorious standard into the heart of the Punjaub. But fortune
was now about to shower her smiles upon a peculiar favourite. Pressed for supplies on their
own bank, the Sikhs were endeavouring to draw them from the British side of the Upper Sutlej.
In the fort and town of Dhurrumkote, which were filled with grain, they maintained a small
garrison. Against this place, Major-General Sir Harry Smith was ordered, on the 18th of January,
to move, with one brigade of his division, and a light field-battery. In the mean time, the
Commander-in-Chief received information that the Sirdar Runjoor Singh, crossing from Philour
at the head of a numerous force of all arms, had established himself between the old and new
sources of the Sutlej, and threatened the rich and populous city of Loodianah. Sir Harry Smith
was accordingly directed to advance by Jugraon towards Loodianah, with the brigade which had
accompanied him to Dhurrumkote, while his second brigade, under Brigadier Wheeler, moved on
to support him. "Then commenced," we learn from the Commander-in-Chief, "a series of very delicate
combinations."

     "The Major-General, breaking up from Jugraon, moved towards
     Loodianah; when the Sirdar, relying on the vast superiority of his
     forces; assumed the initiative, and endeavoured to intercept his
     progress, by marching in a line parallel to him, and opening upon
     his troops a furious cannonade. The Major-General continued coolly
     to manoeuvre; and when the Sikh Sirdar, bending round one wing
     of his army, enveloped his flank, he extricated himself, by
     retiring, with the steadiness of a field-day, by echelon of
     battalions, and effected his communication with Loodianah, but not
     without severe loss.

     "Reinforced by Brigadier Godby, he felt himself to be strong; but
     his manoeuvres had thrown him out of communication with Brigadier
     Wheeler, and a portion of his baggage had fallen into the hands of
     the enemy. The Sikh Sirdar took up an intrenched position at
     Budhowal, supporting himself on its fort; but, threatened on either
     flank by General Smith and Brigadier Wheeler, finally decamped, and
     moved down to the Sutlej. The British troops made good their
     junction, and occupied the abandoned position of Budhowal; the
     Shekawattee brigade and her Majesty's 53d regiment, also added to
     the strength of the Major-General, and he prepared to attack the
     Sikh Sirdar on his new ground. But, on the 26th, Runjoor Singh was
     reinforced from the right bank with four thousand regular troops,
     twelve pieces of artillery, and a large force of cavalry.

     "Emboldened by this accession of strength, he ventured on the
     measure of advancing towards Jugraon, apparently with the view of
     intercepting our communications by that route."[18]

The audacity of the Sikhs was doomed to meet a rough check. Wheeler having joined Sir Harry
by long marches on the 26th of January, the troops required one day's rest. And now we have
our hand upon the most delightful official despatch, and the most admirable picture of a battle,
which has stirred our blood for many a day. Not a sentence of explanation do the words of Sir
Harry Smith need, nor with a syllable of observation shall we rashly dare to gild his gold.
Let us hear Cæsar dictating his commentary.

     "At daylight on the 28th, my order of advance was, the cavalry in
     front, in contiguous columns of squadrons of regiments; two troops
     of horse artillery in the interval of brigades; the infantry in
     contiguous columns of brigades at intervals of deploying distance;
     artillery in the intervals, followed by two eight-inch howitzers,
     on travelling carriages, brought into the field from the fort of
     Loodianah by the indefatigable exertions of Lieutenant-Colonel
     Lane, horse artillery. Brigadier Godby's brigade, which I had
     marched out from Loodianah the previous evening, on the right, the
     Shekawattee infantry on the left, the 4th irregular cavalry and the
     Shekawattee cavalry considerably to the right, for the purpose of
     sweeping the banks of the wet mullah on my right, and preventing
     any of the enemy's horse attempting an inroad towards Loodianah, or
     any attempt upon the baggage assembled round the fort of Budhowal.

     "In this order the troops moved forward towards the enemy, a
     distance of six miles, the advance conducted by Captain Waugh, 16th
     lancers, the Deputy-assistant Quartermaster of cavalry; Major
     Bradford of the 1st cavalry, and Lieutenant Strachey of the
     engineers--who had been jointly employed in the conduct of patrols
     up to the enemy's position, and for the purpose of reporting upon
     the facility and points of approach. Previously to the march of the
     troops, it had been intimated to me by Major Mackeson, that the
     information by spies led to the belief the enemy would move,
     somewhere at daylight, either on Jugraon, my position of Budhowal,
     or Loodianah. On a near approach to his outposts, this rumour was
     confirmed by a spy, who had just left his camp, saying the Sikh
     army was actually in march towards Jugraon. My advance was steady,
     my troops well in hand; and if he had anticipated me on the Jugraon
     road, I could have fallen upon his centre with advantage.

     "From the tops of the houses of the village of Poorein, I had a
     distant view of the enemy. He was in motion, and appeared directly
     opposite my front on a ridge, of which the village of Aliwal may be
     regarded as the centre. His left appeared still to occupy its
     ground in the circular intrenchment; his right was brought forward
     and occupied the ridge. I immediately deployed the cavalry into
     line, and moved on. As I neared the enemy, the ground became most
     favourable for the troops to manoeuvre, being open and hard grass
     land. I ordered the cavalry to take ground to the right and left by
     brigades, thus displaying the heads of the infantry columns, and
     as they reached the hard ground I directed them to deploy into
     line. Brigadier Godby's brigade was in direct echelon to the rear
     of the right--the Shekawattee infantry in like manner to the rear
     of my left. The cavalry in direct echelon on, and well to the rear
     of both flanks of the infantry. The artillery massed on the right,
     and centre, and left. After deployment, I observed the enemy's left
     to outflank me; I therefore broke into open columns and took ground
     to my right. When I had gained sufficient ground, the troops
     wheeled into line; there was no dust, the sun shone brightly. The
     manoeuvres were performed with the celerity and precision of the
     most correct field-day. The glistening of the bayonets and swords
     of this order of battle was most imposing, and the line advanced.
     Scarcely had it moved forward 150 yards, when at 10 o'clock the
     enemy opened a fierce cannonade from his whole line. At first his
     balls fell short, but quickly reached us. Thus upon him, and
     capable of better ascertaining his position, I was compelled to
     halt the line, though under fire, for a few moments, until I
     ascertained that by bringing up my right and carrying the village
     of Aliwal, I could with great effect precipitate myself upon his
     left and centre. I therefore quickly brought Brigadier Godby's
     brigade, and with it and the 1st brigade under Brigadier Hicks,
     made a rapid and noble charge, carried the village, and two guns of
     large calibre. The line I ordered to advance--her Majesty's 31st
     foot and the native regiments contending for the front, and the
     battle became general. The enemy had a numerous body of cavalry on
     the heights to his left, and I ordered Brigadier Cureton to bring
     up the right brigade of cavalry; who, in the most gallant manner,
     dashed in among them, and drove them back upon their infantry.
     Meanwhile a second gallant charge to my right was made by the light
     cavalry and the body-guard. The Shekawattee brigade was moved well
     to the right, in support of Brigadier Cureton. When I observed the
     enemy's encampment, and saw it was full of infantry, I immediately
     brought upon it Brigadier Godby's brigade, by changing front, and
     taking the enemy's infantry en reverse. They drove them before
     them, and took some guns without a check.

     "While these operations were going on upon the right, and the
     enemy's flank was thus driven back, I occasionally observed the
     brigade under Brigadier Wheeler, an officer in whom I have the
     greatest confidence, charging and carrying guns and every thing
     before it, again connecting his line and moving on in a manner
     which ably displayed the coolness of the brigadier, and the
     gallantry of his irresistible brigade--her Majesty's 50th foot, the
     48th native infantry, and the Sirmoor battalion, although the loss
     was, I regret to say, severe in the 50th. Upon the left, Brigadier
     Wilson, with her Majesty's 53d and 30th native infantry, equalled
     in celerity and regularity their comrades on the right, and this
     brigade was opposed to the 'Aieen' troops, called Avitabile's, when
     the fight was fiercely raging.

     "The enemy, well driven back on his left and centre, endeavoured to
     hold his right to cover the passage of the river and he strongly
     occupied the village of Bhoondee. I directed a squadron of the 16th
     lancers, under Major Smith and Captain Pearson, to charge a body to
     the right of the village; which they did in the most gallant and
     determined style, bearing every thing before them, as a squadron
     under Captain Bere had previously done, going through a square of
     infantry, wheeling about and re-entering the square in the most
     intrepid manner with the deadly lance. This charge was accompanied
     by the 3d light cavalry, under Major Angelo, and as gallantly
     sustained. The largest gun upon the field, and seven others, were
     then captured; while the 53d regiment carried the village by the
     bayonet, and the 30th N.I. wheeled round to the rear in a most
     spirited manner. Lieutenant-Colonel Alexander's and Captain
     Turton's troops of horse artillery, under Major Lawrenson, dashed
     almost among the flying infantry, committing great havoc, until
     about eight hundred or one thousand men rallied under the high bank
     of a nullah, and opened a heavy but ineffectual fire from below the
     bank. I immediately directed the 30th native infantry to charge
     them, which they were able to do upon their left flank, while in a
     line in rear of the village. This native corps nobly obeyed my
     orders, and rushed among the Avitabile troops, driving them from
     under the bank, and exposing them once more to the deadly fire of
     twelve guns within 300 yards. The destruction was very great, as
     may be supposed from guns served as these were. Her Majesty's 53d
     regiment moved forward in support of the 30th N.I., by the right of
     the village. The battle was won--our troops advancing with the most
     perfect order to the common focus, the passage of the river. The
     enemy, completely hemmed in, were flying from our fire, and
     precipitating themselves in disordered masses into the ford and
     boats, in the utmost confusion and consternation. Our eight-inch
     howitzers soon began to play upon their boats, when the 'debris' of
     the Sikh army appeared upon the opposite and high bank of the
     river, flying in every direction, although a sort of line was
     attempted to countenance their retreat, until all our guns
     commenced a furious cannonade, when they quickly receded. Nine guns
     were on the verge of the river by the ford. It appears as if they
     had been unlimbered to cover the ford. These, being loaded, were
     fired once upon our advance. To others were sticking in the river;
     one of them, we got out. Two were seen to sink in the quicksands;
     two were dragged to the opposite bank and abandoned. These, and the
     one in the middle of the river, were gallantly spiked by Lieutenant
     Holmes, of the 11th irregular cavalry, and Gunner Scott, of the 1st
     troop 2nd brigade horse artillery, who rode into the stream, and
     crossed for the purpose, covered by our guns and light infantry.

     "Thus ended the battle of Aliwal, one of the most glorious
     victories ever achieved in India. By the united efforts of her
     Majesty's and the Hon. Company's troops, every gun the enemy had
     fell into our hands, as I infer from his never opening one upon us
     from the opposite bank of the river, which is high and favourable
     for the purpose; 52 guns are now in the ordnance park, two sank in
     the bed of the Sutlej, and two were spiked on the opposite
     bank--making a total of 56 pieces of cannon captured or
     destroyed.[19] Many jingalls, which were attached to Avitabile's
     corps, and which aided in the defence of the village of Bhoondee,
     have also been taken. The whole army of the enemy has been driven
     headlong over the difficult ford of a broad river; his camp,
     baggage, stores of ammunition, and of grain--his all, in
     fact--wrested from him by the repeated charges of cavalry and
     infantry, aided by the guns of Alexander, Turton, Lane, Mill,
     Boileau, and of the Shekawattee brigade, and by the eight-inch
     howitzers--our guns literally being constantly ahead of every
     thing. The determined bravery of all was as conspicuous as noble. I
     am unwont to praise when praise is not merited, and I here most
     avowedly express my firm opinion and conviction, that no troops in
     any battle on record ever behaved more nobly. British and native
     (no distinction) cavalry all vying with her Majesty's 16th lancers,
     and striving to head in the repeated charges. Our guns and gunners,
     officers and men, may be equalled, but cannot be excelled, by any
     artillery in the world. Throughout the day no hesitation--a bold
     and intrepid advance; and thus it is that our loss is comparatively
     small, though I deeply regret to say severe. The enemy fought with
     much resolution; they maintained frequent rencounters with our
     cavalry hand to hand. In one charge of infantry upon her Majesty's
     16th lancers, they threw away their muskets, and came on with their
     swords and targets against the lance."[20]

"There was no dust, the sun shone brightly." Unquestionably, not a particle of dust, and all
bright sunshine, from the first paragraph to the last of this unrivalled production. It is
a diorama and a panorama of the battle. Truly, oh reader!

In the luminous rays of such a description, we are made eye-witnesses of the stirring dashing
scene in all its circumstantial variety and general grandeur. What a sight it is, that steady
advance with his "troops well in hand!" But for a peculiar flashing of the eyes, and sternness
in the features, of the men, we should have fancied them in the Home Park at Windsor, encircled,
not by ferocious Sikhs in the horrid harness of war, but by the graceful array of gentler--though,
in sooth, more irresistible--foes. Sir Harry Smith has disappeared--very likely hidden himself
behind a baggage waggon or a huge drum. Sapient speculator! behold him yonder on the house-top,
darting his eagle vision down into the centre of the distant enemy, and unmasking and anticipating
their movements with unerring foresight. Many serious things his vigilance must watch; but,
without distracting his attention, the "glistening of the bayonets and swords of his order
of battle," fills his heart with boyish glee. The fierce cannonade from the whole hostile line
has begun, and, although the balls fall short at first, quickly reaches us. Under this murderous
shower, he halts his line for a minute's pregnant reflection, as an elderly gentleman, playing
golf on a rainy day, takes his spectacles from his nose, and wipes the water-drops away, before
venturing the decisive stroke of the game. Nothing escapes him; every thing is done in the
nick of time. Infantry, cavalry, and artillery, charge to the right or the left, or straight
before them, dash through the enemy's front, or scour the flanks, or sweep the rear, perambulate
squares, and perforate encampments, just as if the serried ranks of the Sikhs had been unsubstantial
creatures of the imagination, or mist-wreaths from the "wet nullah," which a lively fancy had
invested with human form and warlike panoply. But one hundred and fifty-one gallant men killed,
and four hundred and thirteen wounded, sufficiently proved that "one of the most glorious victories
ever achieved in India," had not been won in a combat with phantoms.

The current of the Sutlej hurried melancholy and portentous tidings from Aliwal to the Sikhs
at Sobraon. The bodies of their slaughtered countrymen rolling down in hundreds, announced,
in terms too dismally unequivocal, another tremendous blow of British might. In the breasts
of such a people--ay, or of any people--these ominous visitations could hardly be the harbingers
of hope, to cheer them in the final death-struggle, which they knew to be hourly approaching.
The fortifications at Sobraon had been repeatedly reconnoitred by the Commander-in-Chief, who
satisfied himself that not fewer than thirty thousand men, the best of the Khalsa troops, were
covered by these formidable intrenchments, guarded by seventy pieces of cannon, and united
by a good bridge to a reserve on the opposite bank, where the enemy had a considerable camp
and some artillery, commanding and flanking his fieldworks on the British bank. On the 8th
of February, Sir Harry Smith's triumphant division having rejoined headquarters, it was resolved
to attack, on the morning of the 10th, the Sikh intrenchments.

     "The battering and disposed field artillery was then put in
     position in an extended semicircle, embracing within its fire the
     works of the Sikhs. It had been intended that the cannonade should
     have commenced at daybreak; but so heavy a mist hung over the plain
     and river, that it became necessary to wait until the rays of the
     sun had penetrated it and cleared the atmosphere. Meanwhile, on the
     margin of the Sutlej on our left, two brigades of Major-General Sir
     R. Dick's division, under his personal command, stood ready to
     commence the assault against the enemy's extreme right. His 7th
     brigade, in which was the 10th foot, reinforced by the 53d foot,
     and led by Brigadier Stacey, was to head the attack, supported, at
     two hundred yards' distance, by the 6th brigade, under Brigadier
     Wilkinson. In reserve was the 5th brigade, under Brigadier the Hon.
     T. Ashburnham, which was to move forward from the intrenched
     village of Kodeewalla, leaving, if necessary, a regiment for its
     defence. In the centre, Major-General Gilbert's division was
     deployed for support or attack, its right resting on and in the
     village of the little Sobraon. Major-General Sir Harry Smith's was
     formed near the village of Guttah, with its right thrown up towards
     the Sutlej. Brigadier Cureton's cavalry threatened, by feigned
     attacks, the ford at Hurreekee and the enemy's horse, under Lall
     Singh Misr, on the opposite bank. Brigadier Campbell, taking an
     intermediate position in the rear, between Major-General Gilbert's
     right and Major-General Sir Harry Smith's left, protected both.
     Major-General Sir Joseph Thackwell, under whom was Brigadier Scott,
     held in reserve on our left, ready to act as circumstances might
     demand, the rest of the cavalry.

     "Our battery of nine-pounders, enlarged into twelves, opened near
     the little Sobraon with a brigade of howitzers formed from the
     light field-batteries and troops of horse artillery, shortly after
     daybreak. But it was half-past six before the whole of our
     artillery fire was developed. It was most spirited and
     well-directed. The effect of the cannonade was,
     as has since been proved by an inspection of the camp, most
     severely felt by the enemy; but it soon became evident that the
     issue of this struggle must be brought to the arbitrament of
     musketry and the bayonet.

     "At nine o'clock Brigadier Stacey's brigade, supported on either
     flank by Captains Horsford's and Fordyce's batteries, and
     Lieutenant-Colonel Lane's troop of horse artillery, moved to the
     attack in admirable order. The infantry and guns aided each other
     correlatively. The former marched steadily on in line, which they
     halted only to correct when necessary. The 10th foot, under Lieutenant-Colonel Franks, now for
     the first time brought into serious contact with the enemy, greatly
     distinguished themselves. This regiment never fired a shot till it
     got within the works of the enemy. The onset of her Majesty's 53d
     foot was as gallant and effective. The 43d and 59th N.I., brigaded
     with them, emulated both in cool determination.

     "At the moment of this first success, I directed Brigadier the Hon.
     T. Ashburnham's brigade to move on in support, and Major-General
     Gilbert's and Sir Harry Smith's divisions to throw out their light
     troops to threaten their works, aided by artillery. As these
     attacks of the centre and right commenced, the fire of our heavy
     guns had first to be directed to the right, and then gradually to
     cease, but at one time the thunder of full 120 pieces of ordnance
     reverberated in this mighty combat through the valley of the
     Sutlej; and as it was soon seen that the weight of the whole force
     within the Sikh camp was likely to be thrown upon the two brigades
     that had passed its trenches, it became necessary to convert into
     close and serious attacks the demonstrations with skirmishers and
     artillery of the centre and right; and the battle raged with
     inconceivable fury from right to left. The Sikhs, even when at
     particular points their intrenchments were mastered with the
     bayonet, strove to regain them by the fiercest conflict, sword in
     hand. Nor was it until the cavalry of the left, under Major-General
     Sir Joseph Thackwell, had moved forward, and ridden through the
     openings of the intrenchments made by our sappers, in single file,
     and re-formed as they passed them, and the 3d dragoons, whom no
     obstacle usually held formidable by horse appears to check, had on
     this day, as at Ferozeshah, galloped over and cut down the
     obstinate defenders of batteries and fieldworks, and until the full
     weight of three divisions of infantry, with every field artillery
     gun which could be sent to their aid, had been cast into the scale,
     that victory finally declared for the British. The fire of the
     Sikhs first slackened and then nearly ceased; and the victors then
     pressing them on every side, precipitated them in masses over the
     bridge, and into the Sutlej, which a sudden rise of seven inches
     had rendered hardly fordable. In their efforts to reach the right
     bank, through the deepened water, they suffered from our horse
     artillery a terrible carnage. Hundreds fell under this cannonade;
     hundreds upon hundreds were drowned in attempting the perilous
     passage. Their awful slaughter, confusion, and dismay, were such as
     would have excited compassion in the hearts of their generous
     conquerors, if the Khalsa troops had not, in the early part of the
     action, sullied their gallantry by slaughtering and barbarously
     mangling every wounded soldier whom, in the vicissitudes of attack,
     the fortune of war left at their mercy.

     "Sixty-seven pieces of cannon, upwards of two hundred camel
     swivels, (zumboorucks,) numerous standards, and vast munitions of
     war, captured by our troops, are the pledges and trophies of our
     victory. The battle was over by eleven in the morning, and in the
     forenoon I caused our engineers to burn a part and to sink a part
     of the vaunted bridge of the Khalsa army, across which they had
     boastfully come once more to defy us, and to threaten India with
     ruin and devastation."[21]

This stupendous battle--the climax and the close of a campaign unparalleled in many of its
circumstances in modern history--was in itself an epitome of every thing most dreadful and
most imposing, most destructive and most heroic, which had distinguished its predecessors.
Here fell gloriously, at the moment of victory, DICK, the veteran of the Peninsula and Waterloo,
"displaying the same energy and intrepidity as when, thirty-five years ago, in Spain, he was
the distinguished leader of the 42d Highlanders." No better man--no better soldier--sleeps
the sleep of the brave. The lists of our loss show 320 dead, while 2063 wounded bear additional
testimony to the desperation and havoc of this sanguinary action. Ancient times involuntarily
rush back upon us, recalling the youthful Conqueror of Macedon, who, radiant with the triple
glories of the Granicus, of Issus, and of Arbela, vanquished Porus at the Hydaspes, and paused
in his career, with a sigh, not far from the banks of the Sutlej. He was wont, and justly,
to attribute his Asiatic triumphs to his faithful Macedonians. Does not Britain attribute her
Asiatic triumphs to her faithful sons? Yes; with the important explanation, that Europeans
and Indians are alike British. Between them no demarcation was made, or seen, or felt, in the
majestic spectacle of the campaign of the Sutlej. Their toil and their perils were in common--so
shall be their honours and their fame: and while all men agree that every excellence which
can illuminate and dignify the character of a British soldier, was displayed in stainless brightness
by our European regiments on these colossal battle-fields, all men will also agree that the
exact and cloudless counterpart of such merit shone in the indefatigable hardihood, the indomitable
valour, the immoveable, incorruptible fidelity of our native Indian troops.

The banners of our country have crossed the Sutlej, and advanced to Lahore. But our present
task is done. The policy which has now to regulate the internal condition of a great country,
will be better discussed hereafter. We have simply narrated the course of a terrible necessity,
which, against the desires of this country, has made the ravages of war a bloody but unavoidable
prelude to the beneficent functions of peace. The conflict was not of our seeking.

FOOTNOTES:

[13] Governor-General to the Secret Committee, 2d December 1845.

[14] Governor-General to the Secret Committee, 2d December 1845.

[15] Governor-General to the Secret Committee, 4th December 1845.

[16] Commander-in-Chief to the Governor-General, December 22, 1845.

[17] Commander-in-Chief to Governor-General, 22d December 1845.

[18] Commander-in-Chief to Governor-General, 1st February 1846.

[19] Eleven guns since ascertained to be sunk in the river--total 67; 30 odd jingalls fell
into our hands.

[20] Sir Harry Smith to the Adjutant-General, 30th January 1846.

[21] Commander-in-Chief to Governor-General, 13th February 1846.

Edinburgh. Printed by Ballantyne and Hughes, Paul's Work.