These diversions are often attended with fatal accidents, whereof great numbers are on record.
I myself have seen two or three candidates break a limb.  But the danger is much greater, when
the ministers themselves are commanded to show their dexterity; for, by contending to excel
themselves and their fellows, they strain so far that there is hardly one of them who has not
received a fall, and some of them two or three.  I was assured that, a year or two before my
arrival, Flimnap would infallibly have broke his neck, if one of the king’s cushions, that
accidentally lay on the ground, had not weakened the force of his fall.

There is likewise another diversion, which is only shown before the emperor and empress, and
first minister, upon particular occasions.  The emperor lays on the table three fine silken
threads of six inches long; one is blue, the other red, and the third green.  These threads
are proposed as prizes for those persons whom the emperor has a mind to distinguish by a peculiar
mark of his favour.  The ceremony is performed in his majesty’s great chamber of state, where
the candidates are to undergo a trial of dexterity very different from the former, and such
as I have not observed the least resemblance of in any other country of the new or old world.
The emperor holds a stick in his hands, both ends parallel to the horizon, while the candidates
advancing, one by one, sometimes leap over the stick, sometimes creep under it, backward and
forward, several times, according as the stick is advanced or depressed. Sometimes the emperor
holds one end of the stick, and his first minister the other; sometimes the minister has it
entirely to himself.  Whoever performs his part with most agility, and holds out the longest
in leaping and creeping, is rewarded with the blue-coloured silk; the red is given to the next,
and the green to the third, which they all wear girt twice round about the middle; and you
see few great persons about this court who are not adorned with one of these girdles.

The horses of the army, and those of the royal stables, having been daily led before me, were
no longer shy, but would come up to my very feet without starting.  I had the good fortune
to divert the emperor one day after a very extraordinary manner.  I desired he would order
several sticks of two feet high, and the thickness of an ordinary cane, to be brought me; whereupon
his majesty commanded the master of his woods to give directions accordingly; and the next
morning six woodmen arrived with as many carriages, drawn by eight horses to each. When I had
finished my work, I desired the emperor to let a troop of his best horses twenty-four in number,
come and exercise upon this plain. His majesty approved of the proposal, and I took them up,
one by one, in my hands, ready mounted and armed, with the proper officers to exercise them.

About two or three days before I was set at liberty, as I was entertaining the court with this
kind of feat, there arrived an express to inform his majesty, that some of his subjects, riding
near the place where I was first taken up, had seen a great black substance lying on the around,
very oddly shaped, extending its edges round, as wide as his majesty’s bedchamber, and rising
up in the middle as high as a man; that it was no living creature, as they at first apprehended,
for it lay on the grass without motion; and some of them had walked round it several times;
that, by mounting upon each other’s shoulders, they had got to the top, which was flat and
even, and, stamping upon it, they found that it was hollow within; that they humbly conceived
it might be something belonging to the man-mountain; and if his majesty pleased, they would
undertake to bring it with only five horses.  I presently knew what they meant, and was glad
at heart to receive this intelligence.  It seems, upon my first reaching the shore after our
shipwreck, I was in such confusion, that before I came to the place where I went to sleep,
my hat, which I had fastened with a string to my head while I was rowing, and had stuck on
all the time I was swimming, fell off after I came to land; the string, as I conjecture, breaking
by some accident, which I never observed, but thought my hat had been lost at sea.  I entreated
his imperial majesty to give orders it might be brought to me as soon as possible, describing
to him the use and the nature of it: and the next day the waggoners arrived with it, but not
in a very good condition; they had bored two holes in the brim, within an inch and half of
the edge, and fastened two hooks in the holes; these hooks were tied by a long cord to the
harness, and thus my hat was dragged along for above half an English mile; but, the ground
in that country being extremely smooth and level, it received less damage than I expected.

Two days after this adventure, the emperor, having ordered that part of his army which quarters
in and about his metropolis, to be in readiness, took a fancy of diverting himself in a very
singular manner.  He desired I would stand like a Colossus, with my legs as far asunder as
I conveniently could.  He then commanded his general (who was an old experienced leader, and
a great patron of mine) to draw up the troops in close order, and march them under me; the
foot by twenty-four abreast, and the horse by sixteen, with drums beating, colours flying,
and pikes advanced.  This body consisted of three thousand foot, and a thousand horse.  His
majesty gave orders, upon pain of death, that every soldier in his march should observe the
strictest decency with regard to my person; which however could not prevent some of the younger
officers from turning up their eyes as they passed under me: and, to confess the truth, my
breeches were at that time in so ill a condition, that they afforded some opportunities for
laughter and admiration.

I had sent so many memorials and petitions for my liberty, that his majesty at length mentioned
the matter, first in the cabinet, and then in a full council; where it was opposed by none,
except Skyresh Bolgolam, who was pleased, without any provocation, to be my mortal enemy. 
But it was carried against him by the whole board, and confirmed by the emperor. That minister
was galbet, or admiral of the realm, very much in his master’s confidence, and a person well
versed in affairs, but of a morose and sour complexion.  However, he was at length persuaded
to comply; but prevailed that the articles and conditions upon which I should be set free,
and to which I must swear, should be drawn up by himself.  These articles were brought to me
by Skyresh Bolgolam in person attended by two under-secretaries, and several persons of distinction.
But because the reader may be curious to have some idea of the style and manner of expression
peculiar to that people, as well as to know the article upon which I recovered my liberty,
I have made a translation of the whole instrument, word for word, as near as I was able, which
I here offer to the public.

“7th, That the said man-mountain shall, at his times of leisure, be aiding and assisting to
our workmen, in helping to raise certain great stones, towards covering the wall of the principal
park, and other our royal buildings.

“8th, That the said man-mountain shall, in two moons’ time, deliver in an exact survey of the
circumference of our dominions, by a computation of his own paces round the coast.  Given at
our palace at Belfaborac, the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon of our reign.”

I swore and subscribed to these articles with great cheerfulness and content, although some
of them were not so honourable as I could have wished; which proceeded wholly from the malice
of Skyresh Bolgolam, the high-admiral: whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked, and I
was at full liberty.  The emperor himself, in person, did me the honour to be by at the whole
ceremony.  I made my acknowledgements by prostrating myself at his majesty’s feet: but he commanded
me to rise; and after many gracious expressions, which, to avoid the censure of vanity, I shall
not repeat, he added, “that he hoped I should prove a useful servant, and well deserve all
the favours he had already conferred upon me, or might do for the future.”

The reader may please to observe, that, in the last article of the recovery of my liberty,
the emperor stipulates to allow me a quantity of meat and drink sufficient for the support
of 1724 Lilliputians.  Some time after, asking a friend at court how they came to fix on that
determinate number, he told me that his majesty’s mathematicians, having taken the height of
my body by the help of a quadrant, and finding it to exceed theirs in the proportion of twelve
to one, they concluded from the similarity of their bodies, that mine must contain at least
1724 of theirs, and consequently would require as much food as was necessary to support that
number of Lilliputians.  By which the reader may conceive an idea of the ingenuity of that
people, as well as the prudent and exact economy of so great a prince.

CHAPTER IV.

Mildendo, the metropolis of Lilliput, described, together with the emperor’s palace.  A conversation
between the author and a principal secretary, concerning the affairs of that empire.  The author’s
offers to serve the emperor in his wars.

The first request I made, after I had obtained my liberty, was, that I might have license to
see Mildendo, the metropolis; which the emperor easily granted me, but with a special charge
to do no hurt either to the inhabitants or their houses.  The people had notice, by proclamation,
of my design to visit the town.  The wall which encompassed it is two feet and a half high,
and at least eleven inches broad, so that a coach and horses may be driven very safely round
it; and it is flanked with strong towers at ten feet distance.  I stepped over the great western
gate, and passed very gently, and sidling, through the two principal streets, only in my short
waistcoat, for fear of damaging the roofs and eaves of the houses with the skirts of my coat.
I walked with the utmost circumspection, to avoid treading on any stragglers who might remain
in the streets, although the orders were very strict, that all people should keep in their
houses, at their own peril.  The garret windows and tops of houses were so crowded with spectators,
that I thought in all my travels I had not seen a more populous place.  The city is an exact
square, each side of the wall being five hundred feet long.  The two great streets, which run
across and divide it into four quarters, are five feet wide. The lanes and alleys, which I
could not enter, but only view them as I passed, are from twelve to eighteen inches.  The town
is capable of holding five hundred thousand souls: the houses are from three to five stories:
the shops and markets well provided.

