You will be diverted with a collateral incident.  * * * * met Dick Edgecumbe, and asked him
with great importance, if he knew whether Mr. Pitt was out.  Edgecumbe, who thinks nothing
important that is not to be decided by dice, and who, consequently, had never once thought
of Pitt's political state, replied, "Yes."  "Ay! how do you know?"  "Why, I called at his door
just now, and his porter told me so."  Another political event is, that Lord E. comes into
place: he is to succeed Lord Fitzwalter, who is to have Lord Grantham's pension, -who is dead
immensely rich: I think this is the last of the old Opposition, of any name, except Sir John
Barnard.  If you have curiosity about the Ohio, you must write to ]France: there I believe
they know something about it; here it was totally forgot till last night, when an express arrived
with an account of the loss of one    of the transports off Falmouth, with eight officers and
sixty men on board.

My Lady Townshend has been dying, and was wofully frightened, and took prayers; but she is
recovered now, even of her repentance.  You will not be undiverted to hear that the mob of
Sudbury have literally sent a card to the mob of Bury, to offer their assistance at a contested
election there: I hope to be able to tell you in my next, that Mrs. Holman(531) has sent cards
to both mobs for her assembly.

The shrubs shall be sent, but you must stay till the holidays; I shall not have time to go
to Strawberry sooner.  I have received your second letter, dated November 22d, about the Gothic
paper.  I hope you will by this time have got mine, to dissuade you from that thought.  If
you insist upon it, I will send the paper: I have told you what I think, and will therefore
say no more on that head; but I will transcribe a passage which I found t'other day in Petronius,
and thought not unapplicable to you: "Omnium herbarum succos Democritus expressit; et ne lapidum
virgultorumque vis lateret, aetatem inter experimenta consumpsit."  I hope Democritus could
not draw charmingly when he threw away his time in extracting tints from flints and twigs!

I can't conclude my letter without telling you what an escape I had at the sale of Dr. Mead's
library, which goes extremely dear.  In the catalogue I saw Winstanley's views of Audley-inn,
which I concluded was, as it really was, a thin, dirty folio, worth about fifteen shillings.
As I thought it might be scarce, it might run to two or three guineas.  however, I bid Graham
certainly buy it for me.  He came the next morning in a great fright, said he did not know
whether he had done very right or very wrong, that he had gone as far as nine-and-forty guineas--I
started in such a fright! Another bookseller had luckily had as unlimited a commission, and
bid fifty--when my Graham begged it might be adjourned, till they could consult their principals.
I think I shall never give an unbounded commission again, even for views of Les Rochers!(532)
Adieu! Am I ever to see any more of your hand-drawing? Adieu!  Yours ever.

(531) The lady of whom the anecdote is told p. 65, ant`e, letter 22.-E.

(532) Madame de S`evign`e's seat in Bretagne.

231 Letter 119 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Strawberry Hill, Dec. 24, 1754.                   
'

My dear Sir, I received your packet of December 6th last night, but intending to come hither
for a few days, and unluckily sent away by the coach in the morning a parcel of things for
you; you must therefore wait till another bundle sets out, for the new letters of Madame S`evign`e.
Heaven forbid that I should have said they were bad! I only meant that they were full of family
details, and mortal distempers, to which the most immortal of us are subject: and I was sorry
that the profane should ever know that my divinity was ever troubled with a sore leg, or the
want of money; though, indeed, the latter defeats Bussy@s ill natured accusation of avarice;
and her tearing herself from her daughter, then at Paris, to go and save money in Bretagne
to pay her debts, is a perfection of virtue which completes her amiable character.  My lady
Hervey has made me most happy, by bringing me from Paris an admirable copy of the very portrait
that was Madame de Simiane's: I am going to build an altar for it, under the title of Notre
Dame des Rochers!

Well! but you will want to know the contents of the parcel that is set out.  It Contains another
parcel, which contains I don't know what; but Mr. Cumberland sent it, and desired I would transmit
it to you.  There arc Ray's Proverbs, in two volumes interleaved; a few seeds, mislaid when
I sent the last; a very indifferent new tragedy, called "Barbarossa,"(533) now running; the
author(534) unknown, but believed to be Garrick himself. There is not one word of Barbarossa's
real story, but almost the individual history of Merope; not one new thought, and, which is
the next material want, but one line of perfect nonsense;

"And rain down transports in the shape of sorrow."

To complete it, the manners are so ill observed, that a Mahometan princess royal is at full
liberty to visit her lover in Newgate, like the banker's daughter in George Barnwell.  I have
added four more "Worlds,"(535) the second of which will, I think, redeem my lord Chesterfield's
character with you for wit, except in the two stories, which are very flat: I mean those of
two misspelt letters.  In the last "World,"(536) besides the hand, you will find a story of
your acquaintance: BoncoEur means Norborne Berkeley, whose horse sinking up to his middle in
Woburn park, he would not allow that it was any thing more than a little damp.  The last story
of a highwayman happened almost literally to Mrs. Cavendish.

For news, I think I have none to tell you.  Mr. Pitt is gone to the Bath, and Mr. Fox to Newcastle
House; and every body else into the country for the holidays.  When Lord Bath was told of the
first determination of turning out Pitt, and letting Fox remain, he said it put him in mind
of a story of the gunpowder plot.  The Lord Chamberlain was sent to examine the vaults under
the Parliament-house, and, returning with his report, said he had found five-and-twenty barrels
of gunpowder; that he had removed ten of them, and hoped the other fifteen would do no harm.
Was ever any thing so well and so just?

The Russian ambassador is to give a masquerade for the birth of the little great prince;(537)
the King lends him Somerset House: he wanted to borrow the palace over against me, and sent
to ask it of the cardinal-nephew (538) who replied, "Not for half Russia."

The new madness is Oratorys.  Macklin has set up one, under the title of The British Inquisition;(539)
Foote another against him; and a third man has advertised another to-day.  I have not heard
enough in their favour to tempt me to them, nor do I in the world know enough to compose another
paragraph.  I am here quite alone; Mr. Chute is setting out for his Vine; but in a day or two
I expect Mr. Williams,(540) George Selwyn, and Dick Edgecumbe.  You will allow that when I
do admit any body within my cloister, I choose them well.  My present occupation is putting
up my books; and thanks to arches and pinnacles, and pierced columns, I shall not appear scantily
provided.  Adieu!

(533) The tragedy of "Barbarossa" met with some success, principally from the advantages it
appeared under, by the performance of Garrick and Mossop, in the parts of Achmet and Barbarossa.
He had the misfortune to labour under a constitutional dejection of spirits; and in September
1766, in an interval of deprivation of reason, put a period to his existence, in his fifty-first
year.-E.

(535) No. 92, Reflections on the Drinking Club; No. 98, On the Italian Opera; No. 100, On Dr.
Johnson's Dictionary; and No. 101, Humorous Observations on the English Language; by Lord Chesterfield.-E.

(536) No. 103, On Politeness; and the Politeness of Highwaymen.-E.

(537) The Czar Paul the first.

(538) Henry Earl of Lincoln, nephew to the Duke of Newcastle, to whose title he succeeded.

(539) The British Inquisition was opened in 1754, by a public ordinary, where every person
was permitted, for three shillings a-head, to drink port, or claret, or whatever liquor he
should choose.  This was succeeded by a lecture on oratory.  The plan did not succeed; for
while Macklin was engaged in drilling his waiters, or fitting himself for the rostrum, his
waiters, in return, were robbing him in all directions; so that, in the February of this year,
he was declared a bankrupt, under the designation of a vintner.-E.

(540) George James Williams, Esq. son of the eminent lawyer, William Peere Williams.-E.

233 Letter 120 To George Montagu, Esq. Arlington Street, Jan. 7, 1755.

I imagined by your letter the Colonel was in town, and was shocked at not having been to wait
on him; upon inquiry, I find he is not; and now, can conceive how he came to tell you, that
the town has been entertained with a paper of mine; I send it you, to show you that this is
one of the many fabulous histories which have been spread in such quantities, and without foundation.

I shall take care of your letter to Mr. Bentley.  Mr. Chute is at the Vine, or I know he would,
as I do, beg his compliments to Miss Montagu.  You do not wish me joy on the approaching nuptials
of Mr. Harris and our Miss Anne. He is so amorous, that whenever he sits by her, (and he cannot
stand by her,) my Lady Townshend, by a very happy expression, says, "he is always setting his
dress."  Have you heard of a Countess Chamfelt, a Bohemian, rich and hideous, who is arrived
here, and is under the protection of Lady Caroline Petersham @ She has a great facility at
languages, and has already learned, "D--n you, and kiss me;" I beg her pardon, I believe she
never uses the former, but upon the miscarriage of the latter: in short, as Doddington says,
she has had the honour of performing at most courts in Europe.  Adieu!

234 letter 121 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Jan. 9, 1755.

I used to say that one could not go out of London for two days without finding at one's return
that something very extraordinary had happened; but of late the climate had lost its propensity
to odd accidents.  Madness be praised, we are a little restored to the want of our senses!
I have been twice this Christmas at Strawberry Hill for a few days, and at each return have
been not a little surprised: the last time, at the very unexpected death of Lord Albemarle,(541)
who was taken ill at Paris, going home from supper, and expired in a few hours; and last week
at the far more extraordinary death of Montford.(542)  He himself, with all his judgment in
bets, I think would have betted any man in England against himself for self-murder: yet after
having been supposed the sharpest genius of his time, he, by all that appears, shot himself
on the distress of his circumstances; an apoplectic disposition I believe concurring, either
to lower his spirits, or to alarm them.  Ever since Miss * * * * lived with him, either from
liking her himself, as some think, or to tempt her to marry his lilliputian figure, he has
squandered vast sums at Horse- heath, and in living.  He lost twelve hundred a-year by Lord
Albemarle's death, and four by Lord Gage's, the same day.  He asked immediately for the government
of Virginia or the Foxhounds, and pressed for an answer with an eagerness that surprised the
Duke of Newcastle, who never had a notion of pinning down the relief of his own or any other
man's wants to a day.  Yet that seems to have been the case of Montford, who determined to
throw the die of life and death, Tuesday was Se'nnight, on the answer he was to receive from
court; which did not prove favourable.  He consulted indirectly, and at last pretty directly
several people on the easiest method of finishing life; and seems to have thought that he had
been too explicit; for he invited company to dinner for the day after his death, and ordered
a supper at Whites, where he Supped, too, the night before.  He played at whist till one in
the morning; it was New Year's morning - Lord Robert Bertie drank to him a happy new year;
he clapped his hands strangely to his eyes! In the morning he had a lawyer and three witnesses,
and executed his will, which he made them read twice over, paragraph by paragraph: and then
asking the lawyer if that will would stand good, though a man were to shoot himself? and being
assured it would; he said, " Pray stay while I step into the next room;"=-went into the next
room and shot himself.  He clapped the pistol so close to his head, that they heard no report.
The housekeeper heard him fall, and, thinking he had a fit, ran up with drops, and found his
skull and brains shot about the room You will be charmed with the friendship and generosity
of Sir Francis.  Montford a little time since opened his circumstances to him.  Sir Francis
said, "Montford, if it will be of any service to you, you shall see what I have done for you;"
pulled out his will, and read it, where he had left him a vast legacy.  The beauty of this
action is heightened by Sir Francis's life not being worth a year's purchase.  I own I feel
for the distress this man must have felt, before he decided on so desperate an action.  I knew
him but little; but he was good-natured and agreeable enough, and had the most compendious
understanding I ever knew.  He had affected a finesse in money matters beyond what he deserved,
and aimed at reducing even natural affections to a kind of calculations, like Demoivre's. 
He was asked, soon after his daughter's marriage, if she was with child: he replied, "upon
my word, I don't know; I have no bet upon it."  This and poor * * * *'s self-murder have brought
to light another, which happening in France, had been sunk; * * * *'s.  I can tell you that
the ancient and worshipful company- of lovers are under a great dilemma, upon a husband and
a gamester killing themselves: I don't know whether they will not apply to Parliament for an
exclusive charter for self-murder.

On the occasion of Montford's story, I heard another more extraordinary.  If a man insures
his life, this killing himself vacates the bargain; This (as in England almost every thing
begets a contradiction) has produced an office for insuring in spite of self-murder; but not
beyond three hundred pounds.  I suppose voluntary deaths were not the bon-ton. of people in
higher life.  A man went and insured his life, securing this privilege of a free-dying Englishman.
He carried the insurers to dine at a tavern, where they met several other persons.  After dinner
he said to the life--and-death brokers, "Gentlemen, it is fit that you should be acquainted
with the company: these honest men are tradesmen, to whom I was in debt, without any means
of paying, but by your assistance; and now I am your humble servant!"  He pulled out a pistol
and shot himself.  Did you ever hear of such a mixture of honesty and knavery?

Lord Rochford is to succeed as groom of the stole.  The Duke of Marlborough is privy-seal,
in the room of Lord Gower, who is dead; and the Duke of Rutland is lord steward.  Lord Albemarle's
other offices and honours are still in petto. When the king first saw this Lord Albemarle,
he said, "Your father had a great many good qualities, but he was a sieve!"- -It is 'the last
receiver into which I should have thought his Majesty would have poured gold! You will be pleased
with the monarch's politesse.  Sir John Bland and Offley made interest to play at Twelfth-night,
and succeeded--not at play, for they lost 1400 pounds and 1300 pounds.  As it is not usual
for people of no higher rank to play, the King thought they would be bashful about it, and
took particular care to do the honours of his house to them, set only to them, and spoke to
them at his levee next morning.

You love new nostrums and ]Inventions: there is discovered a method of inoculating the cattle
for the distemper-it succeeds so well that they are not even marked.  How we advance rapidly
in discoveries, and in applying every thing to every thing! Here is another secret, that will
better answer your purpose, and I hope mine too.  They found out lately at the Duke of Argyle's,
that any kind of ink may be made of privet: it becomes green ink by mixing salt of tartar.
I don't know the process; but I am promised it by Campbell, who told me of it t'other day,
when I carried him the true genealogy of the Bentleys, which he assured me shall be inserted
in the next edition of the Biographia.

There sets out to-morrow morning, by the Southampton wagon, such a cargo of trees for you,
that a detachment of Kentishmen would be furnished against an invasion if they were to unroll
the bundle.  I write to Mr. S * * * * to recommend great care of them.  Observe how I answer
your demands: are you as punctual? The forests in your landscapes do not thrive like those
in' your letters.  Here is a letter from G. Montagu; and then I think I may bid you good-night!

(541) In his "Memoires," Vol. i. p. 366, Walpole says, "He died suddenly at Paris, where his
mistress had sold him to the French court."  A writer in the Quarterly Review, Vol Ixii. p.
5, states that what he here asserts was generally believed in Paris; for that, in the "M`emoires
Secrets," published in continuation of Bachaumont's Journal, it is said, on occasion of the
Count d'Herouville's death in 1782, that " he had been talked of for the ministry under Louis
XV. and would probably have obtained it, had it not been for 'son mariage trop in`egal.  Il
avait `epous`e la fameuse Lolotte maitresse du Comte d'Albemarle, l'ambassadeur d'Angleterre,
laquelle servait d'espion au minist`ere de France aupr`es de son amant, et a touch`e en cons`equence
jusqu'`a sa mort une pension de la cour de 12,000 livres.'  But if the French court purchased,
as he reports, and as is sufficiently probable, instructions of our ambassador, they could
have learned from them nothing to facilitate their own schemes of aggression--nothing but what
they knew before; for the policy of England, defective as it might be on other points, had
this great and paramount advantage,-that it was open, honest, and straightforward."-E.

(542) Henry Bromley, created Lord Montford of Horse-heath, in 1741.  He married Frances, daughter
of Thomas Wyndham, Esq. and sister and heiress of Sir Francis Wyndham, of Trent, in the county
of Somerset.-E.

236 Letter 122 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, Jan. 9, 1755.

I had an intention of deferring writing to you, my dear Sir, till I could wish you joy on the
completion of your approaching dignity:(543) but as the Duke of Newcastle is not quite so expeditious
as my friendship is earnest; and as your brother tells me that you have had some very unnecessary
qualms, from your silence to me on this chapter, I can no longer avoid telling you how pleased
I am with any accession of distinction to you and your family; I should like nothing better
but an accession of appointments: but I shall say no more on this head, where wishes are so
barren as mine.  Your brother, who had not time to write by this post, desires me to tell you
that the Duke will be obliged to you, if you will send him the new map of Rome and of the patrimony
of St. Peter, which his Royal Highness says is just published.

You will have heard long before you receive this, of Lord Albemarle's(544) sudden death at
Paris: every body is so sorry for him!--without being so: yet as sorry as he would have been
for any body, or as he deserved.  Can one really regret a man, who, with the most meritorious
wife(545) and sons(546) in the world, and with near 15,000 pounds a year from the government,
leaves not a shilling to his family, lawful or illegitimate, (and both very numerous,) but
dies immensely in debt, though, when he married, he had 90,000 pounds, in the funds, and my
Lady Albemarle brought him 25,000 pounds more, all which is dissipated to 14,000 pounds! The
King very handsomely, and tired with having done so much for a man who had so little pretensions
to it, immediately gave my Lady Albemarle 1200 pounds a year pension, and I trust will take
care of this Lord, who is a great friend of mine, and what is much better for him, the first
favourite of the Duke.  If I were as grave an historian as my Lord Clarendon, I should now
without any scruple tell you a dream; you would either believe it from my dignity of character,
or conclude from my dignity of character that I did not believe it myself.  As neither of these
important evasions will serve my turn, I shall relate the following, only prefacing, that I
do believe the dream happened, and happened right among the millions of dreams that do not
hit.  Lord Bury was at Windsor with the Duke when the express of his father's death arrived:
he came to town time enough to find his mother and sisters at breakfast. "Lord! child," said
my Lady Albemarle, "what brings you to town so early?"  He said he had been sent for.  Says
she "You are not well!"  "Yes," replied Lord Bury, "I am, but a little flustered with something
I have heard."  "Let me feel your pulse," said Lady Albemarle: "Oh!" continued she, "your father
is dead!"  "Lord Madam," said Lord Bury, "how could that come into your head?  I should rather
have imagined that you would have thought it was my poor brother William" (who is just gone
to Lisbon for his health).  "No," said my Lady Albemarle, "I know it is your father; I dreamed
last night that he was dead, and came to take leave of me!" and immediately swooned.

Lord Albemarle's places are not yet given away: ambassador at Paris, I suppose, there will
be none; it was merely kept up to gratify him-besides, when we have no minister we can deliver
no memorials.  Lord Rochford is, I quite believe, to be groom of the stole: that leaves your
Turin open--besides such trifles as a blue garter, the second troop of Guards, and the government
of Virginia.

A death much more extraordinary is that of my Lord Mountford, who, having all his life aimed
at the character of a moneyed man, and of an artfully money-getting man, has shot himself,
on having ruined himself.  If he had despised money, he could not have shot himself with more
deliberate resolution.  The Only points he seems to have considered in so mad an action, were,
not to be thought mad, and which would be the easiest method of despatching Himself.  It is
strange that the passage from life to death should be an object, when One is unhappy enough
to be determined to change one for the other.

I warned you in my last not to wonder if you should hear that either Mr. Pitt or Mr. Fox had
kissed hands for secretary of state; the latter has kissed the secretary of State's hand for
being a cabinet councillor.(547)  The more I see, the more I am confirmed in my idea of this
being the age of abortions.

I have received yours of December 13th, and find myself obliged to my Lord of Cork for a remembrance
of me, which I could not expect he should have preserved.  Lord Huntingdon I know very well,
and like very much: he has parts, great good breeding, and will certainly make a figure.  You
are lucky in such company; yet I wish you had Mr. Brand!

I need not desire you not to believe the stories of such a mountebank as Taylor:(548) I only
wonder that he should think the names of our family a recommendation at Rome; we are not conscious
of any such merit: nor have any Of our eyes ever wanted to be put out.  Adieu! my dear Sir,
my dear Sir Horace.

(543) Mr. Mann was on the ]5th of February created a baronet, with a reversion to his brother
Galfridus.-E.

(544) For an interesting account of this magnificent spendthrift, see M`emoires de Marmontel.-D.

(545) Lady Anne Lenox, sister of Charles Duke of Richmond.

(546) George Lord Viscount Bury, lord of the bedchamber to the Duke, and colonel of a regiment;
Augustus, captain of a man-of-war, who was with Lord Anson in his famous expedition; and William,
colonel of the Guards, and aide-de-camp to the Duke,; the two other sons were very young.

(547) "I proposed an interview between Fox and the Duke of Newcastle, which produced the following
agreement-that Fox should be called up to the cabinet council; that employments should be given
to some of his friends, who were not yet provided for; and that others, who had places already,
should be removed to bigger stations.  Fox, during the whole negotiation, behaved like a man
of sense and a man of honour; very frank, very explicit, and not very unreasonable." Waldegrave's
Memoirs.-E.

(548) A quack oculist. [Generally called the Chevalier Taylor. He published his travels in
1762; in which he styled himself "Ophthalmiator Pontifical, Imperial, Royal," etc.]

238 Letter 123 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Feb. 8, 1755.

My dear sir, By the wagon on Thursday there set out for Southampton a lady whom you must call
Phillis, but whom George Montagu and the Gods would name Speckle-belly.  Peter begged her for
me; that is, for you; that is, for Captain Dumaresque, after he had been asked three guineas
for another.  I hope she will not be poisoned with salt-water, like the poor Poyangers.(549)
If she should, you will at least observe, that your commissions are not stillborn with me,
as mine are with you.  I draw(550) a spotted dog, the moment you desire it.

George Montagu has intercepted the description I promised you of the Russian masquerade: he
wrote to beg it, and I cannot transcribe from myself.  In a few words, there were all the beauties,
and all the diamonds, and not a few of the uglies of London.  The Duke,(551) like Osman the
Third, seemed in the centre of his new seraglio, and I believe my lady and I thought that my
Lord Anson was the chief eunuch.  My Lady Coventry was dressed in a great style, and looked
better than ever.  Lady Betty Spencer, like Rubens's wife (not the common one with the hat),
had all the bloom and bashfulness and wildness of youth, with all the countenance of all the
former Marlboroughs.  Lord Delawar was an excellent mask, from a picture at Kensington of Queen
Elizabeth's porter.  Lady Caroline Petersham, powdered with diamonds and crescents for a Turkish
slave, was still extremely handsome.  The hazard was excessively deep, to the astonishment
of some Frenchmen of quality who are here, and who I believe, from what they saw that night,
will not write to their court to dissuade their armaments, on its not being worth their while
to attack so beggarly a nation.  Our fleet is as little despicable; but though the preparations
on both sides are so great, I believe the storm will blow over.  They insist on our immediately
sending an ambassador to Paris; and to my great satisfaction, my cousin and friend Lord Hertford
is to be the man.  This is still an entire secret here, but will be known before you receive
this.  The weather is very bitter, and keeps me from Strawberry.  Adieu!

(549) Mr. Walpole having called his gold-fish pond Poyang, calls the gold-fish Poyangers.

(550) Alluding to Mr. Bentley's dilatoriness in exercising his pencil at the request of Mr.
Walpole.

(551) William Duke of Cumberland.

239 Letter 124 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, Feb. 23, 1755.

My dear sir, Your argosie is arrived safe; thank you for shells, trees, cones; but above all,
thank you for the landscape.  As it is your first attempt in oils, and has succeeded so much
beyond my expectation, (and being against my advice too, you may believe the sincerity of my
praises,) I must indulge my Vasarihood, and write a dissertation upon it.  You have united
and mellowed your colours, in a manner to make it look like an old picture; yet there is something
in the tone of it that is not quite right.  Mr. Chute thinks that you should have exerted more
of your force in tipping with light the edges on which the sun breaks: my own opinion is, that
the result of the whole is not natural, by your having joined a Claude Lorrain summer sky to
a winter sea, which you have drawn from the life.  The water breaks fine] but the distant hills
are too strong, and the outlines much too hard ..The greatest fault is the trees (not apt to
be your stumbling-block): they are not of a natural green, have no particular resemblance,
and are out of all proportion too large for the figures.  Mend these errors, and work away
in oil.  I am impatient to see some Gothic ruins of your painting.  This leads me naturally
to thank you for the sweet little cul-de-lampe to the entail it is equal to any thing you have
done in perspective and for taste but the boy is too large.

For the block of granite I shall certainly think a louis well bestowed--provided I do but get
the block, and that you are sure it will be equal to the sample you sent me.  My room remains
in want of a table; and as it will take so much time to polish it, I do wish you would be a
little expeditious in sending it.

I have but frippery news to tell you; no politics; for the rudiments of a war, that is not
to be a war, are not worth detailing.         In short, we have acted with spirit, have got
ready thirty ships of the line, and conclude that the French will not care to examine whether
they are well manned or not.  The House of Commons hears nothing but elections; the Oxfordshire
till seven at night three times a week: we have passed ten evenings on the Colchester election,
and last Monday sat upon it till near two in the morning.  Whoever stands a contested election,
and pays for his seat, and attends the first session, surely buys the other six very dear!

The great event is the catastrophe of Sir John Bland(552) who has flirted away his whole fortune
at hazard.  He t'other night exceeded what was lost by the late Duke of Bedford, having at
one period of the night (though he recovered the greatest part of it) lost two-and-thirty thousand
pounds.  The citizens put on their double-channeled pumps and trudge to St. James's Street,
in expectation of seeing judgments executed on White's--angels with flaming swords, and devils
flying away with dice-boxes, like the prints in Sadeler's Hermits.  Sir John lost this immense
sum to a Captain * @ * * *, who at present has nothing but a few debts and his commission.

Garrick has produced a detestable English opera, which is crowded by all true lovers of their
country.  To mark the opposition to Italian operas, it is sung by some cast singers, two Italians,
and a French girl, and the chapel boys; and to regale us with sense, it is Shakspeare's Midsummer
Night's Dream, which is forty times more nonsensical than the worst translation of any Italian
opera-books.  But such sense and such harmony are irresistible!

I am at present confined with a cold, which I caught by going to a fire in the middle of the
night, and in the middle of the snow, two days ago.  About five in the morning Harry waked
me with a candle in his hand, and cried, "Pray, your honour, don't be frightened!"--"No, Harry,
I am not: but what is it that I am not to be frightened at?" --"There is a great fire here
in St. James's Street."--I rose, and indeed thought all St. James's Street was on fire, but
it proved in Bury Street. However, you know I can't resist going to a fire; for it Is certainly
the only horrid sight that is fine.  I slipped on my slippers, and an embroidered suit that
hung on the chair, and ran to Bury Street, and stepped into a pipe that was broken up for water.--It
would have made a picture--the horror of the flames, the snow, the day breaking with difficulty
through so foul a night, and my figure, party per pale, mud and gold.  It put me in mind of
Lady Margaret Herbert's providence, who asked somebody for a pretty pattern for a nightcap.
"Lord!" said they, "what signifies the pattern for a nightcap?"  "Oh! child," said she, "but
you know, in case of fire."  There were two houses burnt, and a poor maid; an officer jumped
out of window, and is much hurt, and two young beauties were conveyed out the same way in their
shifts.  there have been two more great fires.  Alderman Belchier's house at Epsom, that belonged
to the Prince, is burnt, and Beckford's fine house(553) in the country, with pictures and furniture
to a great value.  He says, "Oh! I have an odd fifty thousand pounds in a drawer: I will build
it up again: it won't be above a thousand pounds apiece difference to my thirty children." Adieu!

(552) Who shot himself at Kippax Park.-E.

(553) At Fonthill, in Wiltshire.  The loss was computed at thirty thousand pounds.-E.

241 letter 125 To Richard Bentley, Esq. Arlington Street, March 6, 1755.

My dear sir, I have to thank you for two letters and a picture.  I hope my thanks will have
a more prosperous journey than my own letters have had of late.  You say you have received
none since January 9th.  I have written three since that.  I take care, in conjunction with
the times, to make them harmless enough for the post.  Whatever secrets I may have (and you
know I have no propensity to mystery) will keep very well till I have the happiness of seeing
you, though that date should be farther off than I hope.  As I mean my letters should relieve
some of your anxious or dull minutes, I will tempt no postmasters or secretaries to retard
them.  The state of affairs is much altered since my last epistle that persuaded you of the
distance of a war.  So haughty and so ravenous an answer came from France, that my Lord Hertford
does not go. As a little islander, you may be very easy: Jersey is not prey for such fleets
as are likely to encounter in the channel in April.  You must tremble in your Bigendian capacity,
if you mean to figure as a good citizen.  I sympathize with you extremely in the interruption
it will give to our correspondence.  You, in an inactive little spot, cannot wish more impatiently
for every post that has the probability of a letter, than I, in all the turbulence of London,
do constantly, never-failingly, for letters from you.  Yet by my busy, hurried, amused, irregular
way of life, you would not imagine that I had much time to care for my friends@ You know how
late I used to rise: it is worse and worse: I stay late at debates and committees; for, with
all our tranquillity and my indifference, I think I am never out of the House of Commons: from
thence, it is the fashion of the winter to go to vast assemblies, which are followed by vast
suppers, and those by balls.  Last week I was from two at noon till ten at night at the House:
I came home, dined, new-dressed myself entirely, went to a ball at Lord Holderness's, and stayed
till five in the morning.  What an abominable young creature! But why may not I be so! Old
Haslang(554) dances at sixty-five; my Lady Rochford without stays, and her husband the new
groom of the stole, dance.  In short, when secretaries of state, cabinet councillors, foreign
ministers, dance like the universal ballet in the Rehearsal, why should not I--see them?  In
short, the true definition of me is, that I am a dancing senator--Not that I do dance, or do
any thing by being a senator: but I go to balls, and to the House of Commons-to look on: and
you will believe me when I tell you, that I really think the former the more serious occupation
of the two; at least the performers are most in earnest.  What men say to women, is at least
as sincere as what they say to their country.  If perjury can give the devil a right to the
souls of men, he has titles by as many ways as my Lord Huntingdon is descended from Edward
the Third.

(554) Count de Haslang, many years minister from Bavaria to the British court.-E.

242 Letter 126 To Sir Horace Mann. Arlington Street, March 10, 1755.

having already wished you joy of your chivalry, I would not send you a formal congratulation
on the actual despatch of your patent: I had nothing new to tell you: forms between you and
me would be new indeed.

You have heard of the nomination of my friend and relation, Lord Hertford,(555) to the embassy
of Paris: you will by this time have learned or perceived, that he is not likely to go thither.
They have sent demands too haughty to be admitted, and we are preparing a fleet to tell them
we think so.  In short, the prospect is very warlike.  The ministry are so desirous of avoiding
it, that they make no preparations on land--will that prevent it?--Their partisans d-n the
plantations, and ask if we are to involve ourselves in a war for them?  Will that question
weigh with planters and West Indians?  I do not love to put our trust in a fleet only: however,
we do not touch upon the Pretender; the late rebellion suppressed is a comfortable ingredient,
at least, in a new war.  You know I call this the age of abortions: who knows but the egg of
this war may be addled?

Elections, very warm in their progress, very insignificant in their consequence, very tedious
in their attendance, employ the Parliament solely.  The King wants to go abroad, and consequently
to have the Houses prorogued: the Oxfordshire election says no to him: the war says no to him:
the town say we shall sit till June.  Balls, masquerades, and diversions don't trouble their
heads about the Parliament or the war: the righteous, who hate pleasures and love prophecies,
(the most unpleasant things in the world, except their completion,) are finding out parallels
between London and Nineveh, and other goodly cities of old, who went to operas and ridottos
when the French were at their gates--yet, if Arlington Street were ten times more like to the
most fashionable street in Tyre or Sidon, it should not alarm me: I took all my fears out in
the rebellion: I was frightened enough then; I will never have another panic.  I would not
indeed be so pedantic as to sit in St. James's market in an armed chair to receive the French,
because the Roman consuls received the Gauls in the forum. They shall be in Southwark before
I pack up a single miniature.

