There are three ways a body can become allergic. (1) It can have a genetic predisposition for
a specific allergy to start with. (2) It can be repeatedly exposed to an irritating substance
such as pollen when, at the same time, the body's mechanism for dealing with irritations is
weakened. Generally weak adrenals causes this because the adrenal's job is to produce hormones
that reduce inflammation. Once the irritating substance succeeds at producing a significant
inflammation, a secondary reaction may be set up, called an allergy. Once established, an allergy
is very hard to get rid of.

(3) in a way very similar to the second, but instead of being irritated by an external substance,
it is irritated by repeatedly failing to properly, fully digest something. Pasteurized milk
for example, basically impossible to completely digest even in its low-fat form, often sets
up an allergy that applies to other forms of cows milk, even raw, unpasteurized cows milk or
yogurt. Eating too much white flour can eventually set off a wheat allergy. My husband developed
a severe allergy to barley after drinking too much home-brewed beer; he also became highly
intolerant to alcohol. Now he has allergic reactions to both alcohol and barley. And gets far
sicker from drinking beer (two separate allergies) than from wheat beer, hard liquor or wine
(only one allergy).

Eating too much of any single food, or repeatedly eating too much of an otherwise very good
food at one time, can eventually overwhelm the body's ability to digest it fully. Then, the
finest whole food products may set up an allergic reaction. Worse, this allergic reaction itself
subsequently prevents proper digestion even when only moderate quantities are eaten.

An allergy may not be recognized as an allergy because it may not manifest as the instant skin
rash or stuffy nose or swollen glands or sticky eyes. that people usually think of when they
think "allergic reaction." Food allergies can cause many kinds of symptoms, from sinusitis
to psychosis, from asthma to arthritis, from hyperactivity to depression, insomnia to narcolepsy--and
commonly the symptoms don't manifest immediately after eating. Frequently, allergic reactions
are so low grade as to be unnoticeable and may not produce an observable condition until many
years of their grinding down the vital force has passed. When the condition finally appears
it is hard to associate it with some food that has been consumed for years, apparently with
impunity.

Thus it is that many North Americans have developed allergies to wheat, dairy, soy products
(because many soy foods are very hard to digest), corn and eggs. These are such common, widespread,
frequently found allergies that anyone considering a dietary cause of their complaints might
just cut all these foods out of the diet for a few weeks just to see what happens. And individuals
may be allergic to anything from broccoli to bacon, strawberries to bean sprouts. Unraveling
food allergies sometimes requires the deductions of a Sherlock Holmes.

However, food allergies are very easy to cure if you can get the suffered to take the medicine.
Inevitably, allergic reactions vanish in about five days of abstinence. Anyone with sufficient
self-discipline to water fast for five days can cure themselves of all food allergies at one
step. Then, by a controlled, gradual reintroduction of foods, they can discover which individual
items cause trouble. See Coca's Pulse Test in the Appendix where you'll find step-by-step instructions
for allergy testing that are less rigorous, not requiring a preliminary fast.

Flour, And Other Matters Relating To Seeds

One of the largest degradations to human health was caused by the roller mill. This apparently
profitable machine permitted the miller to efficiently separate wheat flour into three components:
bran, germ and endosperm. Since bread made without bran and germ is lighter and appears more
"upper class" it became instantly popular. Flour without germ and bran also had an industrial
application--it could be stored virtually forever without being infested by insects because
white flour does not contain enough nutrition to support life. Most health conscious people
are aware that white flour products won't support healthful human life either.

Essentially, white flour's effect on humans is another demonstration of Health = Nutrition
/ Calories. When the bran and germ are discarded, remaining are the calories and much of the
protein, lacking are many vitamins and minerals and other vital nutritional substances.

Whole wheat bread has been called the staff of life. In ages past, healthy cultures have made
bread the predominant staple in their diet. Does that mean you can just go to the bakery and
buy whole grain bread, or go to the healthfood store and buy organically grown whole wheat
flour, bake your own, and be as healthy as the ancients? Sorry, the answer is almost certainly
no. There are pitfalls, many of them, waiting for the unwary.

White flour has one other advantage over whole wheat flour. It not only remains free of insect
infestation, it doesn't become stale (meaning rancid). In the wheat germ (where the embryo
resides) there is considerable oil, containing among other things, about the best natural source
of vitamin E. This oil is highly unsaturated and once the seed is ground the oil goes rancid
in a matter of days. Whole wheat flour kept on the unrefrigerated shelf of the store is almost
certainly rancid. A lot of its other vitamin content has been oxidized too. If the wheat flour
had flowed directly from the grinder into an airtight sack and from there directly to the freezer,
if it had been flash frozen and kept extremely cold, it might have a storage life of some months.
Of course that was not the case. Maybe you're lucky and your healthfood store is one of the
very few that has its own small-scale flour mill and grinds daily. Probably not.

How about your baker's whole wheat bread? Where does the baker get flour? From the wholesaler's
or distributor's warehouse! In fifty pound kraftpaper sacks! How much time had elapsed from
milling to wholesaler to baker to baking? The answer has to be in the order of magnitude of
weeks. And it might be months. Was the flour stored frozen? Or airtight? Of course not.

If you want bread made from freshly ground flour you are almost certainly have to grind and
bake it yourself. Is it worth the trouble? You bet. Once you've tasted real bread you'll instantly
see by comparison what stale, rancid whole wheat flour tastes like. Freshly ground flour makes
bread that can be the staff of life and can enormously upgrade your health--if the wheat you
use is any good.

But before we talk about wheat quality, a more few words of warning. If you think wheat goes
rancid rapidly, rye is even worse. Rye flour goes bad so fast that when you buy it in the store
it usually is the rye equivalent of white wheat flour. The germ has been removed. The bag may
not say so. But it probably has. If you are going to make rye breads, even more reason to grind
your own. Corn meal from the grocery store has usually been degerminated too. If it hasn't
been, the oil in the seed's germ has probably gone rancid.

Grinding flour at home is easy these days. There is an abundance of at-home milling products
and no shortage of hype about them. You'll find staunch advocates of stone mills. These produce
the finest-textured flour, but are costly. The sales pitch is that stones grind at low temperature
and do not damage the oils (remember the development of rancidity is a function of temperature)
or the vitamins, which are also destroyed at high temperature. This assertion is half true.
If you are going to store your flour it is far better to grind it cool. However, if you are,
as we do, going to immediately bake your flour, what difference does it make if it gets a little
warm before baking. That only accelerates the action of the yeast.

On the negative side, stone mills grind slowly and are very fussy about which grains they will
grind. If the cereal is a bit moist or if the seed being ground is a little bit oily, the mill
becomes instantly blocked.

Steel burr mills grind fast and coarsely and are inexpensive. Coarse flour makes heavy bread.
The metal grinding faces tend to wear out and have to be replaced occasionally--if they can
be replaced. Breads on the heavy side are still delicious; for many years I made bread with
an inexpensive steel burr mill attachment that came with my juicer.

Some steel burr mills will also grind oily seed like sesame and sunflower. However, oily seeds
can be ground far more easily half-a-cup at a time in a little inexpensive electric spice/coffee
mill, the sort with a single fast-spinning propeller.

I currently think the best compromise are hammermills. The grain dribbles into a chamber full
of fast-spinning teeth that literally pound the grain into powder. Since air flows through
with the grain the flour is not heated very much. This type of mill is small, very fast, intermediate
in price between steel mills and stone mill, lasts a long time, but when grinding, sounds like
a Boeing 747 about to take off. It is essential to wear hearing protectors when using it.

Awareness of bread quality is growing. One excellent new U.S. business, called Great Harvest
Bakery is a fast-growing national franchise chain. They bake and sell only whole grain breads;
all their wheat flour is freshly ground daily on the premises in the back. Unfortunately, as
of the writing of this book, they do not grind their rye flour but bring it in sacks. I can't
recommend their rye breads. The founder of Great Harvest is a knowledgeable buyer who fully
understands my next topic, which is that wheat is not wheat.

There are great differences between hard bread wheats; being organically grown is no cure all
for making good or nutritious bread. Great Harvest understands this and uses top quality grain
that is also Organic.

When I first stated making my own bread from my own at-home-ground flour I was puzzled by variations
in the dough. Sometimes the bread rose well and was spongy after baking like I wanted it to
be. Sometimes it kneaded stickily and ended up flat and crumbly like a cake. Since I had done
everything the same way except that I may have bought my wheat berries from different healthfood
stores, I began to investigate the subject of wheat quality.

The element in the cereal that forms the rubbery sponge in risen bread so it doesn't crumble
and rises high without collapsing, is gluten. The word glue derives from gluten. The gluten
content of various wheats varies. Bread bakers use "hard wheat" because of its high gluten
content. Gluten is a protein and gluten comprises most of the protein in bread wheat; the protein
content and the gluten content are almost identical.

Try this. Ask your healthfood store buyer or owner what the protein content is of the hard
red wheat seeds they're selling. You'll almost certainly get a puzzled look and your answer
will almost certainly be, "we have Organic and conventional." Demand that the store buyer ask
this question of their distributor/wholesaler and then report back to you. If the distributor
deigns to answer, the answer will be the same--I sell Organic or conventional hard red wheat.
Period. When I got these non-answers I looked further and discovered that hard bread wheats
run from about 12 percent protein to about 19 percent and this difference has everything to
do with the soil fertility (and to an extent the amount of rainfall during the season), and
almost nothing to do with Organic or conventional.

This difference also has everything to do with how your dough behaves and how your bread comes
out. And how well your bread nourishes you. Thirteen percent wheat will not make a decent loaf--fourteen
percent is generally considered #2 quality and comprises the bulk of cheap bread grain. When
you hear in the financial news that a bushel of wheat is selling for a certain price, they
mean #2. Bakers compete for higher protein lots and pay far higher prices for more protein.

We prefer our bread about 25% rye, but rye contains no gluten at all. Mix any rye flour into
fourteen percent wheat flour and the dough becomes very heavy, won't rise, and after baking,
crumbles. So I kept looking for better grain and finally discovered a knowledgeable lady that
sold flour mills and who also was a serious baker herself. She had located a source of quality
wheat with an assayed protein content and sold it by the 50 pound sack. When I asked her if
her wheat was Organic she said it was either sixteen or seventeen percent protein depending
on whether you wanted hard red spring wheat or hard white spring wheat. Organic or conventional?
I persisted. No, she said. High protein!

So, I said to myself, since protein content is a function of soil fertility and since my body
needs protein, I figured I am better off eating the best quality wheat, pesticide/herbicide
residues (if there are any) be damned. Think about it! The difference between seventeen percent
and fourteen percent protein is about 25 percent. That percentage difference is the key threshold
of nutritional deficiency that makes teeth fall out. We can't afford to accept 25% degradations
in our nutritional quality in something that we eat every day and that forms the very basis
of our dietary.

Please understand here that I am not saying that high protein wheats can't be grown organically.
They certainly can. The founder of Great Harvest Bakery performs a valuable service locating
and securing high-protein lots of organically grown wheats for his outlets. But often as not
Organic products are no more nourishing than those grown with chemicals. Until the buyers at
Organic whole food wholesalers get better educated about grain, obtaining one's personal milling
stock from them will be a dicey proposition.

Sometimes Organic cereal can be far worse than conventional. To make a cereal Organic is a
negative definition; if it hasn't had chemicals, then its Organic. Grain is one of the few
foods that will still produce economic yields of low quality seed on extremely infertile soil
or when half-smothered in weeds because herbicides weren't used for reasons of ideological
purity. Vegetables will hardly produce anything under those conditions; carelessly grown fruits
and vegetables are inevitably small, misshapen, unmarketable. But seed cleaning equipment can
remove the contamination of weed seeds in cereal grains (at a cost.)

The price the farmer receives for Organic cereal grain is much higher, so it is possible to
accept rather low yields or expend more money for cleaning out high levels of weed seeds from
the field-run harvest, and still make a good profit. A lousy Organic cereal crop like this
might even make a higher profit because the farmer has been spared the expense of fertilization,
of rotation, of weed control. I remember once I bought a sack of Organic whole oats that were
the smallest, most shriveled, bitterest oats I've ever tried to eat. We ended up throwing out
that tiny, light (lacking density) seed in favor of using the "conventional" whole oats that
were plump, heavy and sweet.

