Coinage.

Coins are generally completed by one blow of the coining-press. These presses are worked in
the Royal Mint by machinery, so contrived that they shall strike, upon an average, 60 blows
in a minute; the blank piece, previously properly prepared and annealed, being placed between
the dies by part of the same mechanism. The number of pieces which may be struck by a single
die of good steel, properly hardened and duly tempered, not unfrequently amounts at the Mint
to between 3 and 400,000. There are eight presses at the Mint, frequently at work ten hours
a day, each press producing 3,600 pieces per hour; but making allowance for occasional stoppages,
the daily progress of each press may be reckoned at 30,000 pieces; the eight presses, therefore,
will furnish a diurnal average of 240,000 pieces.--Quarterly Journal.

The Ornithorynous.

This remarkable animal, which forms the link between the bird and beast, has a bill like a
duck, and paws webbed similar to that bird, but legs and body like those of a quadruped, covered
with thick, coarse hair, with a broad tail to steer by. It abounds in the rivers of New Holland,
and may be seen bobbing to the top every now and then, to breathe, like a seal, then diving
again in quest of its prey. It is believed to lay eggs, as a nest with eggs in it of a peculiar
appearance was some time ago found. It bears a claw on the inside of its foot, having a tube
therein, through which it emits a poisonous fluid into the wounds which the claw inflicts;
as, when assailed, it strikes its paws together, and fastens upon its enemy like a crab.--Cunningham's
New South Wales.

Sheep

Are bred to an immense extent in New South Wales. In 1813, the number of sheep in the colony
amounted to 6,514; in 1821, to 119,777. The exportation of wool to England during the last
year exceeded a million of pounds, and at the same rate of increase, in 1840, will reach to
between 30 and 40 millions of pounds. Bullocks are recommended for draught in preference to
horses, and the speed of a well-taught, lively, strong bullock is little short of that of a
horse.--Ibid.

Garden Rhubarb.

To force garden rhubarb, sow the seed on a rich moist border in the beginning of April. Thin
the young plants during the summer; in the end of October, carefully transplant them into forcing-pots,
five or six in each pot. Place them in a northern aspect, to recover the effect of their removal
from the seed-bed, and in a month they are fit for forcing.

American Canals.

The canals are the most striking internal improvements in the United States. The Great Erie
canal is 360 miles in length, with an average breadth of 40 feet. It connects the great line
of lakes with the ocean by the Hudson. Another to connect the Hudson with Lake Champlain is
also complete. Above 2,000,000l. have been expended on them; and the annual returns from the
tolls alone have already amounted to 120,000l. In the state of Ohio, another canal is in progress,
almost equal in magnitude to the Erie canal. On the rivers which it connects with the lakes,
there is a steam-boat navigation of 5,000 miles. In Pennsylvania, the Schuylkill navigation
works comprise an extent of 108 miles, of which 62 are canal, and 46 the river made navigable.
These works are complete. The Union canal, a line of 74 miles, to connect the Schuylkill with
the Susqueannah, is in progress, and will be completed within the present year. These, however,
are but a few of the gigantic strides which America is making in the march of nations.

Caledonian Canal.

Between August 1, 1826, and August 1, 1827, 212 vessels have passed through the Caledonian
canal from sea to sea. 295 vessels have made partial passages through one end of the canal,
to and from various ports; 74 boats, not above 15 tons burden each, have been employed in the
carriage of articles to the fishery stations; and 91 steam-boats have passed through the canal,
all within the period abovementioned.

Medicine.

A respectable contemporary journal gives the following calculations on the relative state of
the medical profession in London and Paris. The French have long objected to the multitude
of our professors, and the drugs they employ; and it would seem by this comparative statement
that their objection is not ill-founded:--

In London there are 174 physicians, or 1 physician to 700 inhabitants; 1,000 surgeons, or 1
surgeon to 1,200 inhabitants; 2,000 apothecaries, or 1 apothecary to 600 inhabitants.

In Paris there is 1 physician to 1,300 inhabitants; 1 surgeon to 6,000 inhabitants; 1 apothecary
to 4,450 inhabitants.

Being in the proportion of 1 physician in Paris to 5 in London; 5 surgeons in London to 1 in
Paris; 7 apothecaries in London to 1 in Paris.

Supposing, on an average, each of these persons to receive 1,000l. a year, the whole income
of the medical profession in London would be 3,474,000l. annually.

Poor Rates.

About the close of the seventeenth century, the poors' rates of England and Wales were stated,
on the authority of parliamentary documents, to amount to 665,362l.; and the population of
both to 5,475,000. In 1821, the poors' rates amounted to about 7,000,000l., and the population
to 12,218,000. Dividing the greater rates 7,000,000l. by the lesser 665,362l., we have about
10-1/2 to 1, which is the proportion in which the poors' rates have increased in the last 127
years. And dividing the greater population 12,218,000 by the lesser 5,475,000, give about 2-1/2
to 1, which is the proportionate increase of population during that space of time.

Van Dieman's Land Wasp.

The wasp of Van Dieman's Land is a smaller but much more splendid insect than the English wasp;
it has four orange-coloured wings, and horns and legs of the same colour, a hard body, and
a formidable sting. It is an inhabitant of the forest, and is at war with a spider that makes
its hole in the sandy places, and which is armed with a cap or door, which it pulls over on
the approach of its enemy, or in rainy weather. The wasp hovers close over the ground, prowling
from one hole to another. Having seized its prey, it immediately kills the spider, and carries
it off to its own hole, when it is said to devour the limbs, and to deposit its egg in the
body to be hatched by the putrefaction that ensues, and which furnishes food for the young
insect produced.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

No. XLVIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

HIGHLAND SUPERSTITION.

There is an extraordinary superstition connected with the M'Alister family. Ages ago,--for
I have never yet got a date from a Highlander as to the transactions of long past times,--but
many generations back, in the days of a chief of great renown in the clan, called M'Alister
More, either from his deeds or his stature, there was a skirmish with a neighbouring clan that
ended fatally for the M'Alisters, though in the contest at the time they were victorious.

A party of their young men set out once upon a foray; they marched over the hills for several
hours, and at last descended into a little glen, which was rented as a black cattle farm by
a widow woman and her two sons. The sons were absent from home on some excursion, and had carried
most of their servants with them, so that the M'Alisters met with no resistance in their attempts
to raise the cattle. They hunted every corner of the glen, secured every beast, and, in spite
of the tears of the widow, they drove her herd away. When the sons returned, and heard the
story of the raid, they collected a strong party of their friends, and crossing the hill secretly
by night, surprised the few M'Alisters who were left in charge of the spoil, vanquished them
easily, and recovered their cattle. Such a slight to the power of M'Alister More could not
go unpunished. The chief himself headed the band which set out to vindicate the honour of the
clan. He marched steadily over the rugged mountains, and arrived towards sunset in the little
glen. To oppose the force he brought with him, would have been fruitless; the sons and their
few adherents were speedily overpowered, and led bound before him; they were small in number,
but they were gallant and brave, and yielded only to superior strength. M'Alister More was
always attended by four and twenty bowmen, who acted as his body guard, his jury, his judges,
and his executioners. They erected on the instant a gibbet before the door of the wretched
mother, and there her sons were hung.

Her cottage was built at the foot of a craggy, naked rock, on a strip of green pasture land,
and beside a mountain torrent; the gibbet was a few paces from it, on the edge of the shelf;
and the setting rays of a bright summer sun fell on the bodies of the widow's sons. They were
still warm when she came and stood beside them. She raised her eyes on the stern chief, and
his many followers, and slowly and steadily she pronounced her curse:--

"Shame, shame on you, M'Alister! You have slain them that took but their own; you have slain
them you had injured! You have murdered the fatherless, and spoiled the widow! but he that
is righteous shall judge between us, and the curse of God shall cling to you for this for ever.
The sun rose on me the proud mother of two handsome boys; he sets on their stiffening bodies!"
and she raised her arm, as she spoke, towards the gibbet. Her eye kindled, and her form dilated,
as she turned again to her vindictive foe. "I suffer now," said she, "but you shall surfer
always. You have made me childless, but you and yours shall be heirless for ever. Long may
their name last, and wide may their lands be; but never, while the name and the lands continue,
shall there be a son to the house of M'Alister!"

The curse of the bereaved widow clung steadily to the house of M'Alister. The lands passed
from heir to heir, but no laird had ever been succeeded by a son. Often had the hopes of the
clan been raised; often had they thought for years that the punishment of their ancestor's
cruelty was to be continued to them no longer--that the spirits of the widow's sons were at
length appeased; but M'Alister More was to suffer for ever; the hopes of his house might blossom,
but they always faded. It was in the reign of the good Queen Anne that they flourished for
the last time; they were blighted then, and for ever.

The laird and the lady had had several daughters born to them in succession, and at last a
son: he grew up to manhood in safety--the pride of his people, and the darling of his parents;
giving promise of every virtue that could adorn his rank. He had been early contracted in marriage
to the daughter of another powerful chieftain in the North, and the alliance, which had been
equally courted by both families, was concluded immediately on the return of the young laird
from his travels. There was a great intercourse in those days with France--most of the young
highland chiefs spent a year or two in that country, many of them were entirely educated there,
but that was not the case with the young heir of M'Alister; he had only gone abroad to finish
his breeding after coming to man's estate. It was shortly before the first rebellion in the
15, to speak as my informant spoke to me--and being young, and of an ardent nature, he was
soon attracted to the court of the old Pretender, whose policy it was to gain every Scotch
noble, by every means, to his views. The measures he took succeeded with the only son of M'Alister:--he
returned to his native country, eager for the approaching contest, pledged heart and hand to
his exiled sovereign. In the troubles which broke out almost immediately on the death of the
queen, he and his father took different sides; the old laird fortified his high tower, and
prepared to defend it to the last, against the enemies of the House of Hanover. The young laird
bade adieu to his beautiful wife, and attended by a band of his young clansmen, easily gained
to aid a cause so romantic, he secretly left his duchess, and joined the army of the Pretender
at Perth.

The young wife had lived with her husband, at a small farm on the property, a little way up
the glen, a mile or two from the castle. But when her husband deserted her, she was removed
by her father-in-law to his own house for greater security. Months rolled away, and the various
fortunes of the rebels were reported, from time to time, in the remote glen where the chief
strength of the M'Alisters lay. News did not travel swiftly then, and often they heard what
was little to be relied on, so much did hope or fear magnify any slight success, or any ill-fortune.
At last, there came a sough of a great battle having been fought somewhere in the west country,
which had decided the fate of the opposing parties. The young laird and his valiant band had
turned the fortune of the day. Argyle was defeated and slain, and the Earl of Marr was victorious;--King
James had arrived, and was to be crowned at Scone, and all Scotland was his own.

