Again, a man might ask, out of what Commonwealth Plato doth banish them?  In sooth, thence
where he himself alloweth community of women.  So, as belike this banishment grew not for effeminate
wantonness, since little should poetical sonnets be hurtful, when a man might have what woman
he listed.  But I honour philosophical instructions, and bless the wits which bred them, so
as they be not abused, which is likewise stretched to poetry.  Saint Paul himself sets a watchword
upon philosophy, indeed upon the abuse.  So doth Plato upon the abuse, not upon poetry.  Plato
found fault that the poets of his time filled the world with wrong opinions of the gods, making
light tales of that unspotted essence, and therefore would not have the youth depraved with
such opinions.  Herein may much be said; let this suffice:  the poets did not induce such opinions,
but did imitate those opinions already induced.  For all the Greek stories can well testify
that the very religion of that time stood upon many and many-fashioned gods; not taught so
by poets, but followed according to their nature of imitation.  Who list may read in Plutarch
the discourses of Isis and Osiris, of the cause why oracles ceased, of the Divine providence,
and see whether the theology of that nation stood not upon such dreams, which the poets indeed
superstitiously observed; and truly, since they had not the light of Christ, did much better
in it than the philosophers, who, shaking off superstition, brought in atheism.

Plato, therefore, whose authority I had much rather justly construe than unjustly resist, meant
not in general of poets, in those words of which Julius Scaliger saith, "qua authoritate, barbari
quidam atque insipidi, abuti velint ad poetas e republica exigendos {71}:" but only meant to
drive out those wrong opinions of the Deity, whereof now, without farther law, Christianity
hath taken away all the hurtful belief, perchance as he thought nourished by then esteemed
poets.  And a man need go no farther than to Plato himself to know his meaning; who, in his
dialogue called "Ion," {72} giveth high, and rightly, divine commendation unto poetry.  So
as Plato, banishing the abuse, not the thing, not banishing it, but giving due honour to it,
shall be our patron, and not our adversary.  For, indeed, I had much rather, since truly I
may do it, show their mistaking of Plato, under whose lion's skin they would make an ass- like
braying against poesy, than go about to overthrow his authority; whom, the wiser a man is,
the more just cause he shall find to have in admiration; especially since he attributeth unto
poesy more than myself do, namely, to be a very inspiring of a divine force, far above man's
wit, as in the fore-named dialogue is apparent.

Of the other side, who would show the honours have been by the best sort of judgments granted
them, a whole sea of examples would present themselves; Alexanders, Caesars, Scipios, all favourers
of poets; Laelius, called the Roman Socrates, himself a poet; so as part of Heautontimeroumenos,
in Terence, was supposed to be made by him.  And even the Greek Socrates, whom Apollo confirmed
to be the only wise man, is said to have spent part of his old time in putting AEsop's Fables
into verse; and, therefore, full evil should it become his scholar Plato to put such words
in his master's mouth against poets. But what needs more?  Aristotle writes the "Art of Poesy;"
and why, if it should not be written?  Plutarch teacheth the use to be gathered of them; and
how, if they should not be read? And who reads Plutarch's either history or philosophy, shall
find he trimmeth both their garments with guards {73} of poesy.

But I list not to defend poesy with the help of his underling historiographer.  Let it suffice
to have showed it is a fit soil for praise to dwell upon; and what dispraise may be set upon
it is either easily overcome, or transformed into just commendation.  So that since the excellences
of it may be so easily and so justly confirmed, and the low creeping objections so soon trodden
down {74}; it not being an art of lies, but of true doctrine; not of effeminateness, but of
notable stirring of courage; not of abusing man's wit, but of strengthening man's wit; not
banished, but honoured by Plato; let us rather plant more laurels for to ingarland the poets'
heads (which honour of being laureate, as besides them only triumphant captains were, is a
sufficient authority to show the price they ought to be held in) than suffer the ill-favoured
breath of such wrong speakers once to blow upon the clear springs of poesy.

But {75} since I have run so long a career in this matter, methinks, before I give my pen a
full stop, it shall be but a little more lost time to inquire, why England, the mother of excellent
minds, should be grown so hard a step-mother to poets, who certainly in wit ought to pass all
others, since all only proceeds from their wit, being, indeed, makers of themselves, not takers
of others.  How can I but exclaim,

"Musa, mihi causas memora, quo numine laeso?" {76}

Sweet poesy! that hath anciently had kings, emperors, senators, great captains, such as, besides
a thousand others, David, Adrian, Sophocles, Germanicus, not only to favour poets, but to be
poets; and of our nearer times can present for her patrons, a Robert, King of Sicily; the great
King Francis of France; King James of Scotland; such cardinals as Bembus and Bibiena; such
famous preachers and teachers as Beza and Melancthon; so learned philosophers as Fracastorius
and Scaliger; so great orators as Pontanus and Muretus; so piercing wits as George Buchanan;
so grave councillors as, besides many, but before all, that Hospital {77} of France, than whom,
I think, that realm never brought forth a more accomplished judgment more firmly builded upon
virtue; I say these, with numbers of others, not only to read others' poesies, but to poetise
for others' reading:  that poesy, thus embraced in all other places, should only find in our
time a hard welcome in England, I think the very earth laments it, and therefore decks our
soil with fewer laurels than it was accustomed.  For heretofore poets have in England also
flourished; and, which is to be noted, even in those times when the trumpet of Mars did sound
loudest.  And now that an over-faint quietness should seem to strew the house for poets, they
are almost in as good reputation as the mountebanks at Venice. Truly, even that, as of the
one side it giveth great praise to poesy, which, like Venus (but to better purpose), had rather
be troubled in the net with Mars, than enjoy the homely quiet of Vulcan; so serveth it for
a piece of a reason why they are less grateful to idle England, which now can scarce endure
the pain of a pen.  Upon this necessarily followeth that base men with servile wits undertake
it, who think it enough if they can be rewarded of the printer; and so as Epaminondas is said,
with the honour of his virtue, to have made an office by his exercising it, which before was
contemptible, to become highly respected; so these men, no more but setting their names to
it, by their own disgracefulness, disgrace the most graceful poesy.  For now, as if all the
Muses were got with child, to bring forth bastard poets, without any commission, they do post
over the banks of Helicon, until they make their readers more weary than post-horses; while,
in the meantime, they,

"Queis meliore luto finxit praecordia Titan," {78}

are better content to suppress the outflowings of their wit, than by publishing them to be
accounted knights of the same order.

But I that, before ever I durst aspire unto the dignity, am admitted into the company of the
paper-blurrers, do find the very true cause of our wanting estimation is want of desert, taking
upon us to be poets in despite of Pallas.  Now, wherein we want desert, were a thankworthy
labour to express.  But if I knew, I should have mended myself; but as I never desired the
title so have I neglected the means to come by it; only, overmastered by some thoughts, I yielded
an inky tribute unto them.  Marry, they that delight in poesy itself, should seek to know what
they do, and how they do, especially look themselves in an unflattering glass of reason, if
they be inclinable unto it.

For poesy must not be drawn by the ears, it must be gently led, or rather it must lead; which
was partly the cause that made the ancient learned affirm it was a divine, and no human skill,
since all other knowledges lie ready for any that have strength of wit; a poet no industry
can make, if his own genius be not carried into it. And therefore is an old proverb, "Orator
fit, poeta nascitur." {79} Yet confess I always, that as the fertilest ground must be manured,
so must the highest flying wit have a Daedalus to guide him.  That Daedalus, they say, both
in this and in other, hath three wings to bear itself up into the air of due commendation;
that is art, imitation, and exercise.  But these, neither artificial rules, nor imitative patterns,
we much cumber ourselves withal.  Exercise, indeed, we do, but that very forebackwardly; for
where we should exercise to know, we exercise as having known; and so is our brain delivered
of much matter which never was begotten by knowledge.  For there being two principal parts,
matter to be expressed by words, and words to express the matter, in neither we use art or
imitation rightly.  Our matter is "quodlibet," {80} indeed, although wrongly, performing Ovid's
verse,

"Quicquid conabor dicere, versus erit;" {81}

never marshalling it into any assured rank, that almost the readers cannot tell where to find
themselves.

Chaucer, undoubtedly, did excellently in his Troilus and Cressida; of whom, truly, I know not
whether to marvel more, either that he in that misty time could see so clearly, or that we
in this clear age go so stumblingly after him.  Yet had he great wants, fit to be forgiven
in so reverend antiquity.  I account the Mirror of Magistrates meetly furnished of beautiful
parts.  And in the Earl of Surrey's Lyrics, many things tasting of a noble birth, and worthy
of a noble mind.  The "Shepherds' Kalendar" hath much poesy in his eclogues, indeed, worthy
the reading, if I be not deceived.  That same framing of his {82} style to an old rustic language,
I dare not allow; since neither Theocritus in Greek, Virgil in Latin, nor Sannazaro in Italian,
did affect it.  Besides these, I do not remember to have seen but few (to speak boldly) printed
that have poetical sinews in them.  For proof whereof, let but most of the verses be put in
prose, and then ask the meaning, and it will be found that one verse did but beget another,
without ordering at the first what should be at the last; which becomes a confused mass of
words, with a tinkling sound of rhyme, barely accompanied with reason.

Our {83} tragedies and comedies, not without cause, are cried out against, observing rules
neither of honest civility nor skilful poetry.  Excepting Gorboduc (again I say of those that
I have seen), which notwithstanding, as it is full of stately speeches, and well- sounding
phrases, climbing to the height of Seneca his style, and as full of notable morality, which
it does most delightfully teach, and so obtain the very end of poesy; yet, in truth, it is
very defectuous in the circumstances, which grieves me, because it might not remain as an exact
model of all tragedies.  For it is faulty both in place and time, the two necessary companions
of all corporal actions.  For where the stage should always represent but one place; and the
uttermost time presupposed in it should be, both by Aristotle's precept, and common reason,
but one day; there is both many days and many places inartificially imagined.

But if it be so in Gorboduc, how much more in all the rest? where you shall have Asia of the
one side, and Afric of the other, and so many other under kingdoms, that the player, when he
comes in, must ever begin with telling where he is, {84} or else the tale will not be conceived.
Now shall you have three ladies walk to gather flowers, and then we must believe the stage
to be a garden.  By and by, we hear news of shipwreck in the same place, then we are to blame
if we accept it not for a rock.  Upon the back of that comes out a hideous monster with fire
and smoke, and then the miserable beholders are bound to take it for a cave; while, in the
meantime, two armies fly in, represented with four swords and bucklers, and then, what hard
heart will not receive it for a pitched field?

Now of time they are much more liberal; for ordinary it is, that two young princes fall in
love; after many traverses she is got with child; delivered of a fair boy; he is lost, groweth
a man, falleth in love, and is ready to get another child; and all this in two hours' space;
which, how absurd it is in sense, even sense may imagine; and art hath taught and all ancient
examples justified, and at this day the ordinary players in Italy will not err in.  Yet will
some bring in an example of the Eunuch in Terence, that containeth matter of two days, yet
far short of twenty years.  True it is, and so was it to be played in two days, and so fitted
to the time it set forth.  And though Plautus have in one place done amiss, let us hit it with
him, and not miss with him.  But they will say, How then shall we set forth a story which contains
both many places and many times?  And do they not know, that a tragedy is tied to the laws
of poesy, and not of history; not bound to follow the story, but having liberty either to feign
a quite new matter, or to frame the history to the most tragical convenience?  Again, many
things may be told, which cannot be showed:  if they know the difference betwixt reporting
and representing.  As for example, I may speak, though I am here, of Peru, and in speech digress
from that to the description of Calicut; but in action I cannot represent it without Pacolet's
horse.  And so was the manner the ancients took by some "Nuntius," {85} to recount things done
in former time, or other place.

Lastly, if they will represent an history, they must not, as Horace saith, begin "ab ovo,"
{86} but they must come to the principal point of that one action which they will represent.
By example this will be best expressed; I have a story of young Polydorus, delivered, for safety's
sake, with great riches, by his father Priamus to Polymnestor, King of Thrace, in the Trojan
war time.  He, after some years, hearing of the overthrow of Priamus, for to make the treasure
his own, murdereth the child; the body of the child is taken up; Hecuba, she, the same day,
findeth a sleight to be revenged most cruelly of the tyrant.  Where, now, would one of our
tragedy-writers begin, but with the delivery of the child?  Then should he sail over into Thrace,
and so spend I know not how many years, and travel numbers of places.  But where doth Euripides?
Even with the finding of the body; leaving the rest to be told by the spirit of Polydorus.
This needs no farther to be enlarged; the dullest wit may conceive it.

But, besides these gross absurdities, how all their plays be neither right tragedies nor right
comedies, mingling kings and clowns, not because the matter so carrieth it, but thrust in the
clown by head and shoulders to play a part in majestical matters, with neither decency nor
discretion; so as neither the admiration and commiseration, nor the right sportfulness, is
by their mongrel tragi-comedy obtained.  I know Apuleius did somewhat so, but that is a thing
recounted with space of time, not represented in one moment: and I know the ancients have one
or two examples of tragi-comedies as Plautus hath Amphytrio.  But, if we mark them well, we
shall find, that they never, or very daintily, match horn-pipes and funerals.  So falleth it
out, that having indeed no right comedy in that comical part of our tragedy, we have nothing
but scurrility, unworthy of any chaste ears; or some extreme show of doltishness, indeed fit
to lift up a loud laughter, and nothing else; where the whole tract of a comedy should be full
of delight; as the tragedy should be still maintained in a well-raised admiration.

But our comedians think there is no delight without laughter, which is very wrong; for though
laughter may come with delight, yet cometh it not of delight, as though delight should be the
cause of laughter; but well may one thing breed both together.  Nay, in themselves, they have,
as it were, a kind of contrariety.  For delight we scarcely do, but in things that have a conveniency
to ourselves, or to the general nature.  Laughter almost ever cometh of things most disproportioned
to ourselves and nature:  delight hath a joy in it either permanent or present; laughter hath
only a scornful tickling.  For example:  we are ravished with delight to see a fair woman,
and yet are far from being moved to laughter; we laugh at deformed creatures, wherein certainly
we cannot delight; we delight in good chances; we laugh at mischances; we delight to hear the
happiness of our friends and country, at which he were worthy to be laughed at that would laugh:
we shall, contrarily, sometimes laugh to find a matter quite mistaken, and go down the hill
against the bias, {87} in the mouth of some such men, as for the respect of them, one shall
be heartily sorrow he cannot choose but laugh, and so is rather pained than delighted with
laughter.  Yet deny I not, but that they may go well together; for, as in Alexander's picture
well set out, we delight without laughter, and in twenty mad antics we laugh without delight:
so in Hercules, painted with his great beard and furious countenance, in a woman's attire,
spinning at Omphale's commandment, it breeds both delight and laughter; for the representing
of so strange a power in love procures delight, and the scornfulness of the action stirreth
laughter.

But I speak to this purpose, that all the end of the comical part be not upon such scornful
matters as stir laughter only, but mix with it that delightful teaching which is the end of
poesy.  And the great fault, even in that point of laughter, and forbidden plainly by Aristotle,
is, that they stir laughter in sinful things, which are rather execrable than ridiculous; or
in miserable, which are rather to be pitied than scorned.  For what is it to make folks gape
at a wretched beggar, and a beggarly clown; or against the law of hospitality, to jest at strangers,
because they speak not English so well as we do? what do we learn, since it is certain,

"Nil habet infelix pauperatas durius in se, Quam qnod ridiculos, homines facit." {88}

But rather a busy loving courtier, and a heartless threatening Thraso; a self-wise seeming
school-master; a wry-transformed traveller:  these, if we saw walk in stage names, which we
play naturally, therein were delightful laughter, and teaching delightfulness:  as in the other,
the tragedies of Buchanan {89} do justly bring forth a divine admiration.

But I have lavished out too many words of this play matter; I do it, because, as they are excelling
parts of poesy, so is there none so much used in England, and none can be more pitifully abused;
which, like an unmannerly daughter, showing a bad education, causeth her mother Poesy's honesty
to be called in question.

Other {90} sorts of poetry, almost, have we none, but that lyrical kind of songs and sonnets,
which, if the Lord gave us so good minds, how well it might be employed, and with how heavenly
fruits, both private and public, in singing the praises of the immortal beauty, the immortal
goodness of that God, who giveth us hands to write, and wits to conceive; of which we might
well want words, but never matter; of which we could turn our eyes to nothing, but we should
ever have new budding occasions.

But, truly, many of such writings as come under the banner of unresistible love, if I were
a mistress, would never persuade me they were in love; so coldly they apply fiery speeches,
as men that had rather read lover's writings, and so caught up certain swelling phrases, which
hang together like a man that once told me, "the wind was at north-west and by south," because
he would be sure to name winds enough; than that, in truth, they feel those passions, which
easily, as I think, may be bewrayed by the same forcibleness, or "energia" (as the Greeks call
it), of the writer.  But let this be a sufficient, though short note, that we miss the right
use of the material point of poesy.

Now {91} for the outside of it, which is words, or (as I may term it) diction, it is even well
worse; so is that honey-flowing matron eloquence, apparelled, or rather disguised, in a courtesan-like
painted affectation.  One time with so far-fetched words, that many seem monsters, but most
seem strangers to any poor Englishman: another time with coursing of a letter, as if they were
bound to follow the method of a dictionary:  another time with figures and flowers, extremely
winter-starved.

But I would this fault were only peculiar to versifiers, and had not as large possession among
prose printers:  and, which is to be marvelled, among many scholars, and, which is to be pitied,
among some preachers.  Truly, I could wish (if at least I might be so bold to wish, in a thing
beyond the reach of my capacity) the diligent imitators of Tully and Demosthenes, most worthy
to be imitated, did not so much keep Nizolian paper-books {92} of their figures and phrases,
as by attentive translation, as it were, devour them whole, and make them wholly theirs.  For
now they cast sugar and spice upon every dish that is served at the table:  like those Indians,
not content to wear ear-rings at the fit and natural place of the ears, but they will thrust
jewels through their nose and lips, because they will be sure to be fine.

Tully, when he was to drive out Catiline, as it were with a thunderbolt of eloquence, often
useth the figure of repetition, as "vivit et vincit, imo in senatum venit, imo in senatum venit,"
&c. {93}  Indeed, inflamed with a well-grounded rage, he would have his words, as it were,
double out of his mouth; and so do that artificially which we see men in choler do naturally.
And we, having noted the grace of those words, hale them in sometimes to a familiar epistle,
when it were too much choler to be choleric.

How well, store of "similiter cadences" doth sound with the gravity of the pulpit, I would
but invoke Demosthenes' soul to tell, who with a rare daintiness useth them.  Truly, they have
made me think of the sophister, that with too much subtlety would prove two eggs three, and
though he may be counted a sophister, had none for his labour.  So these men bringing in such
a kind of eloquence, well may they obtain an opinion of a seeming fineness, but persuade few,
which should be the end of their fineness.

Now for similitudes in certain printed discourses, I think all herbalists, all stories of beasts,
fowls, and fishes are rifled up, that they may come in multitudes to wait upon any of our conceits,
which certainly is as absurd a surfeit to the ears as is possible. For the force of a similitude
not being to prove anything to a contrary disputer, but only to explain to a willing hearer:
when that is done, the rest is a most tedious prattling, rather overswaying the memory from
the purpose whereto they were applied, than any whit informing the judgment, already either
satisfied, or by similitudes not to be satisfied.

For my part, I do not doubt, when Antonius and Crassus, the great forefathers of Cicero in
eloquence; the one (as Cicero testifieth of them) pretended not to know art, the other not
to set by it, because with a plain sensibleness they might win credit of popular ears, which
credit is the nearest step to persuasion (which persuasion is the chief mark of oratory); I
do not doubt, I say, but that they used these knacks very sparingly; which who doth generally
use, any man may see, doth dance to his own music; and so to he noted by the audience, more
careful to speak curiously than truly.  Undoubtedly (at least to my opinion undoubtedly) I
have found in divers small- learned courtiers a more sound style than in some professors of
learning; of which I can guess no other cause, but that the courtier following that which by
practice he findeth fittest to nature, therein (though he know it not) doth according to art,
though not by art:  where the other, using art to show art, and not hide art (as in these cases
he should do), flieth from nature, and indeed abuseth art.

But what! methinks I deserve to be pounded {94} for straying from poetry to oratory:  but both
have such an affinity in the wordish considerations, that I think this digression will make
my meaning receive the fuller understanding:  which is not to take upon me to teach poets how
they should do, but only finding myself sick among the rest, to allow sonic one or two spots
of the common infection grown among the most part of writers; that, acknowledging ourselves
somewhat awry, we may bend to the right use both of matter and manner:  whereto our language
giveth us great occasion, being, indeed, capable of any excellent exercising of it. {95}  I
know some will say, it is a mingled language:  and why not so much the better, taking the best
of both the other?  Another will say, it wanteth grammar.  Nay, truly, it hath that praise,
that it wants not grammar; for grammar it might have, but needs it not; being so easy in itself,
and so void of those cumbersome differences of cases, genders, moods, and tenses; which, I
think, was a piece of the tower of Babylon's curse, that a man should be put to school to learn
his mother tongue.  But for the uttering sweetly and properly the conceit of the mind, which
is the end of speech, that hath it equally with any other tongue in the world, and is particularly
happy in compositions of two or three words together, near the Greek, far beyond the Latin;
which is one of the greatest beauties can be in a language.

Now, {96} of versifying there are two sorts, the one ancient, the other modern; the ancient
marked the quantity of each syllable, and according to that framed his verse; the modern, observing
only number, with some regard of the accent, the chief life of it standeth in that like sounding
of the words, which we call rhyme. Whether of these be the more excellent, would bear many
speeches; the ancient, no doubt more fit for music, both words and time observing quantity;
and more fit lively to express divers passions, by the low or lofty sound of the well-weighed
syllable.  The latter, likewise, with his rhyme striketh a certain music to the ear; and, in
fine, since it doth delight, though by another way, it obtaineth the same purpose; there being
in either, sweetness, and wanting in neither, majesty.  Truly the English, before any vulgar
language I know, is fit for both sorts; for, for the ancient, the Italian is so full of vowels,
that it must ever be cumbered with elisions.  The Dutch so, of the other side, with consonants,
that they cannot yield the sweet sliding fit for a verse.  The French, in his whole language,
hath not one word that hath his accent in the last syllable, saving two, called antepenultima;
and little more, hath the Spanish, and therefore very gracelessly may they use dactiles. The
English is subject to none of these defects.

Now for rhyme, though we do not observe quantity, we observe the accent very precisely, which
other languages either cannot do, or will not do so absolutely.  That "caesura," or breathing-place,
in the midst of the verse, neither Italian nor Spanish have, the French and we never almost
fail of.  Lastly, even the very rhyme itself the Italian cannot put in the last syllable, by
the French named the masculine rhyme, but still in the next to the last, which the French call
the female; or the next before that, which the Italian calls "sdrucciola:" the example of the
former is, "buono," "suono;" of the sdrucciola is, "femina," "semina."  The French, of the
other side, hath both the male, as "bon," "son," and the female, as "plaise," "taise;" but
the "sdrucciola" he hath not; where the English hath all three, as "due," "true," "father,"
"rather," "motion," "potion;" with much more which might be said, but that already I find the
trifling of this discourse is much too much enlarged.

So {97} that since the ever praiseworthy poesy is full of virtue, breeding delightfulness,
and void of no gift that ought to be in the noble name of learning; since the blames laid against
it are either false or feeble; since the cause why it is not esteemed in England is the fault
of poet-apes, not poets; since, lastly, our tongue is most fit to honour poesy, and to be honoured
by poesy; I conjure you all that have had the evil luck to read this ink-wasting toy of mine,
even in the name of the Nine Muses, no more to scorn the sacred mysteries of poesy; no more
to laugh at the name of poets, as though they were next inheritors to fools; no more to jest
at the reverend title of "a rhymer;" but to believe, with Aristotle, that they were the ancient
treasurers of the Grecian's divinity; to believe, with Bembus, that they were the first bringers
in of all civility; to believe, with Scaliger, that no philosopher's precepts can sooner make
you an honest man, than the reading of Virgil; to believe, with Clauserus, the translator of
Cornutus, that it pleased the heavenly deity by Hesiod and Homer, under the veil of fables,
to give us all knowledge, logic, rhetoric, philosophy natural and moral, and "quid non?" to
believe, with me, that there are many mysteries contained in poetry, which of purpose were
written darkly, lest by profane wits it should be abused; to believe, with Landin, that they
are so beloved of the gods that whatsoever they write proceeds of a divine fury.  Lastly, to
believe themselves, when they tell you they will make you immortal by their verses.

Thus doing, your names shall flourish in the printers' shops:  thus doing, you shall be of
kin to many a poetical preface:  thus doing, you shall be most fair, most rich, most wise,
most all:  you shall dwell upon superlatives:  thus doing, though you be "Libertino patre natus,"
you shall suddenly grow "Herculea proles,"

"Si quid mea Carmina possunt:"

thus doing, your soul shall be placed with Dante's Beatrix, or Virgil's Anchisis.

But if (fie of such a but!) you be born so near the dull-making cataract of Nilus, that you
cannot hear the planet-like music of poetry; if you have so earth-creeping a mind, that it
cannot lift itself up to look to the sky of poetry, or rather, by a certain rustical disdain,
will become such a Mome, as to be a Momus of poetry; then, though I will not wish unto you
the ass's ears of Midas, nor to be driven by a poet's verses, as Bubonax was, to hang himself;
nor to be rhymed to death, as is said to be done in Ireland; yet thus much curse I must send
you in the behalf of all poets; that while you live, you live in love, and never get favour,
for lacking skill of a sonnet; and when you die, your memory die from the earth for want of
an epitaph.

POEMS

POEM:  TWO PASTORALS

Made by Sir Philip Sidney, upon his meeting with his two worthy friends and fellow poets, Sir
Edward Dyer and M. Fulke Greville.

Join mates in mirth to me, Grant pleasure to our meeting; Let Pan, our good god, see How grateful
is our greeting. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Ye hymns and singing skill Of god Apollo's giving, Be pressed our reeds to fill With sound
of music living. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Sweet Orpheus' harp, whose sound The stedfast mountains moved, Let there thy skill abound,
To join sweet friends beloved. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies
three.

My two and I be met, A happy blessed trinity, As three more jointly set In firmest band of
unity. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Welcome my two to me, The number best beloved, Within my heart you be In friendship unremoved.
Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Give leave your flocks to range, Let us the while be playing; Within the elmy grange, Your
flocks will not be straying. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies
three.

Cause all the mirth you can, Since I am now come hither, Who never joy, but when I am with
you together. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Like lovers do their love, So joy I in you seeing: Let nothing me remove From always with you
being. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

And as the turtle dove To mate with whom he liveth, Such comfort fervent love Of you to my
heart giveth. Join hearts and hands, so let it be, Make but one mind in bodies three.

Now joined be our hands, Let them be ne'er asunder, But link'd in binding bands By metamorphosed
wonder. So should our severed bodies three As one for ever joined be.

POEM:  DISPRAISE OF A COURTLY LIFE

Walking in bright Phoebus' blaze, Where with heat oppressed I was, I got to a shady wood, Where
green leaves did newly bud; And of grass was plenty dwelling, Decked with pied flowers sweetly
smelling.

In this wood a man I met, On lamenting wholly set; Ruing change of wonted state, Whence he
was transformed late, Once to shepherds' God retaining, Now in servile court remaining.

There he wand'ring malecontent, Up and down perplexed went, Daring not to tell to me, Spake
unto a senseless tree, One among the rest electing, These same words, or this affecting:

"My old mates I grieve to see Void of me in field to be, Where we once our lovely sheep Lovingly
like friends did keep; Oft each other's friendship proving, Never striving, but in loving.

"But may love abiding be In poor shepherds' base degree? It belongs to such alone To whom art
of love is known: Seely shepherds are not witting What in art of love is fitting.

"Nay, what need the art to those To whom we our love disclose? It is to be used then, When
we do but flatter men: Friendship true, in heart assured, Is by Nature's gifts procured.

"Therefore shepherds, wanting skill, Can Love's duties best fulfil; Since they know not how
to feign, Nor with love to cloak disdain, Like the wiser sort, whose learning Hides their inward
will of harming.

"Well was I, while under shade Oaten reeds me music made, Striving with my mates in song; Mixing
mirth our songs among. Greater was the shepherd's treasure Than this false, fine, courtly pleasure.

