While the custom of having a tree is universal throughout Germany, and from thence has been
introduced into other countries, there are many customs peculiar to certain sections. In some
of the little out-of-the-way places in the Tyrolese Alps the old-time Miracle Plays are enacted
in a most primitive manner. As the peasants rarely, if ever, attend the theatre or have any
opportunity to see a modern play, this occasion attracts them from far and near. Where is the
theatre, who are the actors, do you ask? The theatre is the largest place available, sometimes
a large room, sometimes a barn, anything that will accommodate the crowd that is sure to come.
In one description of a play given on Christmas Day it is stated that the people assembled
in a barn belonging to the vicarage to witness the Paradise Play. The top of a huge pottery
stove at least five feet high served for the throne of God the Father, the stove being hidden
by screens painted to represent clouds. The play "began at the beginning,"--at Chaos. A large
paper screen bedecked with a profusion of suns, moons, stars, and comets formed a background,
while in front sprawled a number of boys in tights with board wings fastened to their shoulders
to represent angels. The language was as simple and primitive as the scenery, yet for the credulous,
devout peasants "no distance is too great, no passes too steep or rough, no march on dusty
highroads too fatiguing, if a Miracle or Passion Play is their goal."

Does it seem sacrilegious? Not to those who attend it in the spirit of humility and devotion,
as do these Tyrolese peasants. In some places plays are given in churches on Christmas as they
were formerly in England, but these are not common, and are only found in remote places. Throughout
this country there is always a church service in the morning which is very generally attended,
Protestants and Catholics alike making Christmas the day of all the year in which they attend
church.

The name Christmas probably originated from the order that was given for saying mass (called
Christ-mass) for the sins of the people on the day that commemorates the Saviour's Birth.

One beautiful feature of a German Christmas is the wide-spread thought for the poor and the
interest taken in them. Many wealthy families have charge of a certain number of poor families,
and on Christmas Day invite them to their own luxurious homes to receive gifts and enjoy the
tree prepared for them. An address, prayer, and song as they stand around the tree precedes
the distribution of gifts, usually of clothing and food, with which the guests fill the bags
and baskets they bring with them. And for all there is an abundance of Pfeffer Kuchen, or some
other Christmas cake.

In the midst of all the excitement of lighted tree and pretty gifts, German children seldom
forget to return thanks for what they receive. They are taught that all these gifts come through
the Christ-child, and that the occasion is not for selfish enjoyment but to give pleasure to
others, and that no one is too poor to give kindly thought and pleasant words to those around them.

In some parts of Germany--Lorraine is one--the people burn the Yule-log; sometimes a huge log
that will last through the three days' festivity, sometimes one so small that the family sit
before it until it is all consumed. Sometimes a part of the log is suspended from the ceiling
of the room and each person present blows at it hoping to make a spark fall on some watching
face; then again some carry a piece of the log to bed with them to protect them from lightning.
But the Yule-log is not very generally known in this land of great pottery stoves and closed
fireplaces, and that may be one reason why post-wagons go rumbling about at Christmas time,
carrying parcels from place to place and from door to door, blowing their post-horns continuously,
instead of the parcels being dropped down chimneys by Santa Claus.

It is customary, also, in some parts of the country, for the people and their animals to fast
the day before Christmas. At midnight the people attend church and it is said that the cattle
kneel; then both man and beast partake of a hearty meal. There are places in the German Alps
where it is believed that the cattle are blessed with the gift of language for a while on Christmas
Eve, but as it is a very great sin to listen, no one has yet reported any conversation among
them. In another part of the country it is thought that the Virgin Mary with a company of angels
passes over the land on Holy Night, and so tables are spread with the best the larders afford
and candles are lighted and left burning that the angelic visitors may find abundant food should
they chance to stop on their way.

Boxing-day, when boxes prepared for the poor are distributed, follows the Holy Day and after
that business is resumed, although festivities do not cease.

Sylvester, or New Year's Eve, is the next occasion to be observed during Yule-tide. The former
name was given in honor of the first pope of that name, and still retained by many. After the
usual church service in the early evening, the intervening hours before midnight are spent
in the most boisterous merriment. Fun of all sorts within the limit of law and decency prevails.
Any one venturing forth wearing a silk hat is in danger of having his hat, if not his head,
smashed. "Hat off," cries the one who spies one of these head-coverings, and if the order is
not instantly obeyed, woe betide the luckless wearer. At midnight all Germany, or at least
all in the cities and the larger towns, may be seen out-of-doors or leaning from windows, waiting
for the bells to ring out the Old Year and welcome in the New. At first stroke of the bells
there arises one universal salute of Prosit Neujahr (Happy New Year). It is all good-natured
fun, a wild, exuberant farewell to the Old Year--the closing scene of the joyous Yule-tide.

THE CHRISTMAS TREE

    The oak is a strong and stalwart tree,
      And it lifts its branches up,
    And catches the dew right gallantly
      In many a dainty cup:
    And the world is brighter and better made
      Because of the woodman's stroke,
    Descending in sun, or falling in shade,
      On the sturdy form of the oak.
    But stronger, I ween, in apparel green,
      And trappings so fair to see,
    With its precious freight for small and great,
      Is the beautiful Christmas tree.

    The elm is a kind and goodly tree,
      With its branches bending low:
    The heart is glad when its form we see,
      And we list to the river's flow.
    Ay, the heart is glad and the pulses bound,
      And joy illumes the face,
    Whenever a goodly elm is found
      Because of its beauty and grace.
    But kinder, I ween, more goodly in mien,
    With branches more drooping and free,
    The tint of whose leaves fidelity weaves,
    Is the beautiful Christmas tree.

--Hattie S. Russell.

CHAPTER IV.

YULE-TIDE IN SCANDINAVIA

    The horn was blown for silence, come was the votive hour;
    To Frey's high feast devoted they carry in the boar.

--Frithof's "Saga," Trans. Bayard Taylor.

"To Norroway, to Norroway," the most northern limit of Scandinavia, one turns for the first
observance of Christmas in Scandinavia, for the keeping of Yule-tide in the land of Odin, of
the Vikings, Sagas, midnight sun, and the gorgeous Aurora Borealis. This one of the twin countries
stretching far to the north with habitations within nineteen degrees of the North Pole, and
the several countries which formed ancient Scandinavia, are one in spirit regarding Christmas
although not in many other respects.

In the far north among the vast tribe of Lapps, in their cold, benighted country, as Christmas
approaches each wandering tribe heads its reindeer toward the nearest settlement containing
a church, that it may listen to the story of the first Christmas morn which is told year after
year by the pastor, and yet is ever new and interesting to the people who come from great distances,
drawn over the fields of crisp snow by their fleet-footed reindeer.

The Lapp is apparently a joyless individual. Men, women, and children seem bereft of all power
of amusement beyond what tends to keep them alive, such as fishing, hunting, and traveling
about to feed their herds of reindeer. They have no games, no gift for music, they never dance
nor play cards, but year after year drag out an existence, living within low earth-covered
huts or in tents. Even the best homes are low and poorly ventilated. For windows are not needed
where darkness reigns for months together, where the sun is not seen at all during six or seven
weeks of the year, and where people live out-of-doors during the long summer day of sunlight
that follows.

In their low, stuffy homes which at Christmas are filled with guests from the wandering Lapps,
there is no room for the pretty tree and decorative evergreens. The joy afforded these people
at Yule-tide is in the reunion of friends, in attending church services, in the uniting of
couples in marriage, and, alas, in the abundance of liquor freely distributed during this season.
The children are made happy by being able to attend school, for at Christmas they are brought
into the settlements with friends for this purpose. They have only a few weeks' schooling during
the year, from Christmas to Easter, and while the schoolmasters are stationed at the little
towns, the children work hard to gain the knowledge of books and religion which they crave.

In this terrible winter night of existence, amidst an appalling darkness of Nature and Mind,
the one great occasion of the year is Christmas. Not the merry, bright, festive occasion of
their more favored brothers and sisters, but what to them is the happiest in the year.

Christmas Eve passes unnoticed. The aurora may be even more beautiful than usual, its waving
draperies more fantastic, more gorgeous-hued, but it is unnoticed by the Lapps who have seen
it from childhood. Men, women, children, servants, guests, and animals, crowd into the small,
low homes, without a thought of Santa Claus coming to visit them. Children have no stockings
to hang up, and there are no chimneys for Santa to descend. In fact, he and his reindeer, with
their loads of treasured gifts, probably left this region with the sun, bound for more congenial
places.

The church bells break the terrible silence of the sunless towns on Christmas morning, and
as the fur-encased natives wend their way to church, greeting one another as they meet, there
is a faint approach to joyousness. Of course there must be real sorrow and joy wherever there
is life and love, although among the Lapps it is hard to discern.

During Yule-tide the Lapps visit one another, attend to what governmental business there may
be, give in marriage, christen the children, and bury the dead, whose bodies have lain beneath
their covering of snow awaiting this annual visit of the Norwegian clergyman for their final
interment.

Think of Christmas without a tree, without wreaths and flowers, without stockings full of gifts,
with a dinner of reindeer meat and no plum pudding! And imagine what would be his sensation
could a Lapp child be put into a home in England, America, Germany, or even in other parts
of Scandinavia! What would he say could he receive such gifts as were given you last Christmas!

But Lapps are only a small part of the population of Norway. Norwegian children have many jolly
times around the Christmas trees and enjoy hunting for their little gifts which are often tucked
away in various places for them to find. Then there are all sorts of pretty games for them
to play and quantities of appetizing food prepared for their pleasure. The young folks earn
their feast, for all day long before Christmas they are busy tying bunches of oats and corn
on the trees, the fences, the tops of houses and of barns, and on high poles which they erect
in the yards, until

    "From gable, barn and stable
    Protrudes the birdies' table
    Spread with a sheaf of corn."

The Norwegians begin their Christmas with divine services, after which they meet together for
a repast which is an appetizer for the feast to follow. A pipe of tobacco is given to each
man and boy present, then they smoke while the feast, the great feature of the day, is being
made ready. Fish, poultry, meats, and every variety of food known to the Norwegian housewife
is served in courses, between which toasts are given, healths drunk, and the songs of Norway
rendered. Among the latter "Old Norway" is always included, for the people never forget the
past history of their beloved country.

One of the pretty customs of these occasions is that each guest on arising turns to the host
and hostess, who remain seated at either end of the table, and, bowing to each, expresses his
thanks for the meal.

Sometimes after the serving of tea at seven o'clock, little boys in white mantles, with star-shaped
lanterns and dolls to represent the Virgin and the Holy Babe, enter the room and sing sweet
carols. Often strolling musicians arrive, such as go from place to place at Christmas. After
a large supper the guests depart on sledges for their homes, which are often miles distant.

Do you suppose on Christmas Eve, as they look toward the fading light in the West, the children
of Norway ever think of their Scandinavian cousins, the little Icelanders, in their peat houses,
on that isolated island in the sea, where the shortest day is four hours long, and where at
Christmas time the sun does not rise above the horizon for a week, and wonder how they are
celebrating Yule-tide?

Christmas is a great day with them also, for they cling to the old songs and customs, and could
the west wind convey the sound of glad voices across the wide expanse of water separating the
island from the mainland, Norwegian children might hear the Icelandic children singing one
of their sweet old songs.

    "When I do good and think aright
    At peace with man, resigned to God,
    Thou look'st on me with eyes of light,
    Tasting new joys in joy's abode."

In Sweden there is a general house-cleaning before Christmas; everything must be polished,
scrubbed, beaten, and made clean, and all rubbish burned, for dirt, like sinful thoughts, cannot
be tolerated during the holy festival.

As early as the first of December each housewife starts her preparations for the great day.
Many have worked all the year making gifts for the occasion, but now the carpets must come
up and be beaten, the paint must be cleaned, and the house set in order. The silver which has
been handed down from generation to generation, together with that received on holidays and
birthdays, has to be cleaned and polished, so must the brasses--the tall fire-dogs, the stately
andirons, and the great kettles--all must be made to reflect every changing ray of light.

Then the baking for a well-ordered household is a matter of great moment, and requires ample
time. It is usual to begin at least two weeks before Christmas. Bread is made of wheat and
rye flour, raised over night, then rolled very thin and cut into discs twelve or fourteen inches
in diameter, with a hole in the center. After having been baked, these are strung on a stick
and left to dry under the beams of the baking-room. As they will keep a long while, large quantities
are made at this season in each household.

Then follows the making of sweetened, soft, rye, wheat, and other breads, as well as the baking
of the light yellow (saffron), the chocolate-brown, and thin gray-colored cakes, and those
that are filled with custard.

The preparing of Christmas drinks always requires the close attention of good dames, for there
must be an inexhaustible supply of Christmas beer, made of malt, water, molasses, and yeast,
and wine with almonds and spices, and various other decoctions.

Then the cheese must be made ready, not only the usual sour kind, but the more delicious sweet
cheese that is made of sweet milk boiled slowly for hours and prettily moulded.

The Swedish wife is relieved of the burden of making pies, as her people know nothing about
that indigestible mixture so acceptable to American palates.

The festivities begin with the dressing of the tree the day before Christmas. In this the older
members of the family, with friends and relatives, join with great gusto, preparing paper flowers
with which to bedeck the tall evergreen tree which reaches from floor to ceiling.

They cut long ribbons of colored paper for streamers, and make yards of paper fringe to wind
with the tinsel among the boughs, from which are hung bright colored boxes of sweetmeats, fruit,
and fancy balls.

The children are, of course, excluded from the room and obliged to content themselves with
repeating the tales of Santa Claus, as told by their elders. When a gift is offered in person,
or, as is more generally the case, is thrown in the door suddenly by an unseen hand, there
rings a merry Glad Frill (Good Yule) meaning "Merry Christmas," for that is the wish of the
preceding day or days, rather than of Christmas itself.

On Christmas Eve at early nightfall, when the colored candles are ablaze over the entire tree,
and the great red ball of light shines from its topmost branches, the children are admitted
to the room amidst a babel of shouts and screams of delight, which are increased upon the arrival
of a veritable Santa Claus bestrewn with wool-snow and laden with baskets of gifts. On the
huge sled are one or more baskets according to the number of bundles to be distributed in the
family. Each bundle bears the name of the owner on its wrapper, together with funny rhymes
and mottoes, which are read aloud for the amusement of all. Santa Claus always gives an abundance
of valuable counsel and advice to the young folks as he bestows upon them his pretty gifts.

After the distribution of gifts and the disappearance of Santa Claus, all join in dancing and
singing around the tree simple, childish jingles such as the following:

    "Now is Christmas here again,
    Now is Christmas here again,
    After Christmas then comes Easter,
    Cheese and bread and Christmas beer,
    Fish and rice and Christmas cheer!
        --etc."

One of the prettiest dances is that of "Cutting the Oats," in which girls and boys--there must
be an extra boy--dance in a circle, singing:

    "Cut the oats, cut the oats,
    Who is going to bind them?
    That my dearest will have to do,
    But where will I find him?

    "I saw him last eve in the moonlight,
    In the moonlight clear and bright,
    So you take one and I'll take one,
    And he will be left without one."

The boys represent the cutters and the girls the oats, and great merriment prevails as the
cutters' arms encircle the waists of the pretty oats, leaving the unfortunate cutter, whom
they all dance around, bowing scoffingly as they shout:

    "No one did want you,
       Poor sprite, no one wants you,
    You are left alone,
       You are left alone."

Many of their games are similar to "Blind Man's Buff," "Hunt the Key," and "Hot and Cold,"
or "Hunt to the Music," the latter being one which by its modulations from pianissimo to forte
indicate the hunters' nearness to the object sought for. The game of "Blind Feeding the Blind"
causes much amusement among the juveniles; two players sit opposite each other blindfolded
and endeavor to feed one another with spoonfuls of milk, and their mishaps are very entertaining
to the on-lookers.

Between the hours of ten and eleven comes the grand Christmas supper, when all adjourn to the
dining-room to partake of the annual feast for which the housewives have long been preparing.
The table is usually tastefully and often elaborately trimmed with flowers and green leaves.
The corners of the long snow-white homespun cloth are caught up into rosettes surrounded with
long calla or other leaves; possibly the entire edge of the table is bedecked with leaves and
flowers. The butter is moulded into a huge yellow rose resting on bright green leaves, and
the napkins assume marvelous forms under the deft fingers of the artistic housewives.

The Christmas mush holds the first place in importance among the choice viands of the occasion;
it is rice boiled a long while in milk and seasoned with salt, cinnamon, and sugar, and is
eaten with cream. Several blanched almonds are boiled in the mush and it is confidently believed
that whoever finds the first almond will be the first to be married. While eating the mush,
each one is expected to make rhymes about the rice and the good luck it is to bring them, and
the most remarkable poetical effusions are in order on these occasions.

The Christmas fish is to the Swede what the Christmas roast-beef is to the Englishman, an indispensable
adjunct of the festival. The fish used resembles a cod; it is buried for days in wood ashes
or else it is soaked in soda water, then boiled and served with milk gravy. Bread, cheese,
and a few vegetables follow, together with a pudding made of salt herrings, skinned, boned,
and cut in thin slices, which are laid in a dish with slices of cold boiled potatoes and hard-boiled
eggs, covered with a dressing of cream, butter, and eggs-then baked and served hot.

The fish, rice, and a fat goose are said to be served at every table on Christmas from that
of the king to that of the commonest of his subjects.

Christmas morning opens with an early service in church, to which the older members of the
family go in sled parties of from forty to fifty sleds, each drawn by one, two, or even three
horses, over whose backs jingle rows of silver-toned bells. The sled parties are an especial
feature of Christmas time. They start out while the stars are still twinkling in the sky, and
the lighted trees are illuminating the homes they pass.

The day itself is observed with less hilarity than other days during the season; the "Second
Christmas," or day following, being far gayer. Then begin the family parties, with the looking
forward to the great Twelfth-Night ball, after which the children and young folks end their
evening parties by untrimming the tree of their entertainer amidst peals of laughter, songs,
and shouts.

The tree, of course, has been supplied anew with candles, fruit, and candy. The first are blown
out and the last two struggled for while the tree is drawn slowly toward the door out of which
it is finally pitched by the merry crowd.

The Swedes have four legal holidays at Yule, beginning the day previous to Christmas, and they
make merry while they last. Besides having the Jul-gran or Christmas tree, each family places
in the yard a pole with a sheaf of grain on top for the birds' Christmas dinner, a pretty custom
common to many countries.

Business is very generally suspended during Christmas, the day following, Twelfth Day, and
the twentieth day.

"Do as your forefathers have done, and you can't do wrong," is said to be the motto of the
Swedes. So the customs of their forefathers are strictly observed at Yule-tide.

Svea, the feminine name of Sweden, the "Queen of the North," contains what is popularly believed
to be the burial-places of Wodin, Thor, and Freya. The mounds are about one mile from Upsala
and are visited by travelers from all parts of the world. Antiquarian researchers, however,
have recently had a word to say in doubt whether these mounds contain the remains of the renowned
beings, those ancient travelers. The Swedes, however, still cling to the belief that the bones
of Wodin, the Alexander of the North, rest beneath the sod at Upsala. In these mounds have
been found the bones of a woman and of a dog, a bracelet of filigree work, and a curious pin
shaped like a bird, but no sign of Wodin's presence. Yet peasants believe that Wodin passes
by on dark nights, and his horse's shoe, with eight nail-holes, is exhibited in the museum
at Utwagustorp.

New Year's Day is of comparatively little importance; the Christmas trees are usually relighted
for the enjoyment of the poorer children and gifts are made to the needy. The Yule festivities
are prolonged for two weeks in many places, during which the people visit from home to home
and enjoy many social pleasures. The devout attend church services each day, abandon all work
so far as possible, and on January thirteenth generally finish up the joyous season with a ball.

The Swedes do not trim their churches with evergreen at Yule-tide as that is an emblem of mourning
with them, and is used instead of crape on the door and often strewn before the hearse and
also upon the floor in the saddened homes, so of course at Christmas they would not think of
using it for decorations. But where they can afford it or can procure them, they use flowers
to decorate their homes.

In Denmark, Christmas is a time of unusual merriment and rejoicing. No one who can possibly
avoid it works at all from the day before Christmas until after New Year, but spends the time
in visiting, eating, and drinking. "May God bless your Christmas; may it last till Easter,"
is the usual salutation of the season.

With the people of Denmark the favorite dish for Christmas dinner is a goose; every one, even
the cattle, the dog, and the birds, receive the best the larder affords on this occasion. There
is a peculiar kind of cake that is made for each member of every family, and, for some reason
not explained, the saltcellar remains on the table throughout Yule-tide.

Those who own fruit-trees feel it incumbent upon them to go at midnight on Christmas Eve and
with a stick in hand strike each tree three times saying as they do so, "Rejoice, O Tree,--rejoice
and be fruitful."

In Denmark it is believed by many that the cattle rise on their knees at midnight on Christmas
Eve, but no one ever seems to have proved this saying to be true.

In this country also the children delight in listening to stories of trolls who have been driven
to the island of Bornhern by the parsons although they once ran riot through Zealand, and the
little folks sing pretty songs of Balder, the sun god, which are a special feature of the season.

It is customary to usher in the New Year with a noise of firearms of every description.

THE CHRISTMAS SHEAF

    Far over in Norway's distant realm,
      That land of ice and snow,
    Where the winter nights are long and drear,
      And the north winds fiercely blow,
    From many a low-thatched cottage roof,
      On Christmas eve, 'tis said,
    A sheaf of grain is hung on high,
      To feed the birds o'erhead.

    In years gone by, on Christmas eve,
      When the day was nearly o'er,
    Two desolate, starving birds flew past
      A humble peasant's door.
    "Look! Look!" cried one, with joyful voice
      And a piping tone of glee:
    "In that sheaf there is plenteous food and cheer,
      And the peasant had but three.
    One he hath given to us for food,
      And he hath but two for bread,
    But he gave it with smiles and blessings,
      'For the Christ-child's sake,' he said."

    "Come, come," cried the shivering little mate,
      "For the light is growing dim;
    'Tis time, ere we rest in that cosy nest,
      To sing our evening hymn."
    And this was the anthem they sweetly sang,
      Over and over again:
    "The Christ-child came on earth to bless
      The birds as well as men."

    Then safe in the safe, snug, warm sheaf they dwelt,
      Till the long, cold night was gone,
    And softly and clear the sweet church bells
      Rang out on the Christmas dawn,
    When down from their covert, with fluttering wings,
      They flew to a resting-place,
    As the humble peasant passed slowly by,
      With a sorrowful, downcast face.
    "Homeless and friendless, alas! am I,"
      They heard him sadly say,
    "For the sheriff," (he wept and wrung his hands)
      "Will come on New Year's day."

    The birdlings listened with mute surprise.
    "'Tis hard," they gently said;
    "He gave us a sheaf of grain for food,
      When he had but three for bread.
    We will pray to God, He will surely help
      This good man in distress;"
    And they lifted their voices on high, to crave
      His mercy and tenderness.
    Then again to the Christmas sheaf they flew,
      In the sunlight, clear and cold:
    "Joy! joy! each grain of wheat," they sang,
      "Is a shining coin of gold."

    "A thousand ducats of yellow gold,
      A thousand, if there be one;
    O master! the wonderful sight behold
      In the radiant light of the sun."
    The peasant lifted his tear-dimmed eyes
      To the shining sheaf o'erhead;
    "'Tis a gift from the loving hand of God,
      And a miracle wrought," he said.
    "For the Father of all, who reigneth o'er,
      His children will ne'er forsake,
    When they feed the birds from their scanty store,
      For the blessed Christ-child's sake."

    "The fields of kindness bear golden grain,"
      Is a proverb true and tried;
    Then scatter thine alms, with lavish hand,
      To the waiting poor outside;
    And remember the birds, and the song they sang,
      When the year rolls round again:
    "The Christ-child came on earth to bless
      The birds as well as men."

--Mrs. A.M. Tomlinson.

CHAPTER V.

YULE-TIDE IN RUSSIA

    "Light--in the heavens high,
    And snow flashing bright;--
    Sledge in the distance
    In its lonely flight."

--Shenshin.

In this enormous kingdom which covers one-sixth of the land surface of the globe, and where
upwards of fifteen million human beings celebrate in various ways the great winter festival
of Yule-tide, it will be found that the people retain many traditions of the sun-worshipers,
which shows that the season was once observed in honor of the renewal of the sun's power. With
them, however, the sun was supposed to be a female, who, when the days began to lengthen, entered
her sledge, adorned in her best robes and gorgeous head-dress, and speeded her horses summerward.

Russian myths indicate a connection with the Aryans in the remote past; their songs of the
wheel, the log, the pig or boar, all show a common origin in centuries long gone by.

Russia to most minds is a country of cold, darkness, oppression, and suffering, and this is
true to an altogether lamentable extent. But it is also a country of warmth, brightness, freedom,
and happiness. In fact, there are so many phases of life among its vast population that descriptions
of Russian life result about as satisfactorily as did those of Saxe's "Three blind men of Hindustan,"
who went to see the elephant. Each traveler describes the part he sees, just as each blind
man described the part he felt, and each believes he knows the whole.

There are certain general features of the Yule-tide observance that are typical of the country.
One is the singing of their ancient Kolyada songs, composed centuries ago by writers who are
unknown. They may have been sacrificial songs in heathen days, but are now sung with fervor
and devotion at Christmas time.

In some places a maiden dressed in white and drawn on a sledge from house to house represents
the goddess of the Sun, while her retinue of maidens sing the Kolyada, or carols. Here again
appears the ancient custom of gift-making, for the maidens who attend the goddess expect to
receive gifts in appreciation of their songs.

The word Kolyada is of doubtful origin. It may refer to the sun, a wheel, or a sacrifice; there
is no telling how, when, or where it originated, but the singing of these songs has been a
custom of the people from time immemorial, and after the introduction of Christianity it became
a part of the Christmas festivities.

Ralston in his "Songs of the Russian People" gives the following translation of one of these
peculiar songs:

      "Kolyada! Kolyada!
      Kolyada has arrived.
    On the Eve of the Nativity,
      Holy Kolyada.

Strangely enough the Russians make the Moon the master of the mansion above, and the Sun the
mistress, a twist about in the conception of these luminaries worthy of the Chinese, and possibly
derived from some of Russia's Eastern invaders. In the above song, the Stars, like dutiful
children, all wish their luminous parents good health,

    "For many years, for many years."

In parts of Russia, the Virgin Mary and birds take the place of the Sun and Stars in these
songs, which are sung throughout the Yule season by groups of young folks at social gatherings,
or from house to house, and form the leading feature of the Christmas festivities.

It is hard to realize that the stolid, fur-clad Russian is a child of song, for such seem to
belong to sunny climes, but throughout his life from the cradle to the grave he is accompanied
with song. Not modern compositions, for they are quite inferior as a rule, but those melodies
composed ages ago and sung repeatedly through generation after generation, usually accompanied
with dancing in circles.

The Kolyadki cover a variety of themes relating to the gods, goddesses, and other celestial
beings, to all of whom Christian characteristics have been given until they now form the sacred
songs of Yule-tide.

On Christmas Eve it is customary for the people to fast until after the first service in church.
They pray before their respective icons, or sacred pictures, recite psalms, and then all start
for the church, where the service is, in most respects, the same as in the Roman Catholic Church.
There are many denominations besides the established church of the country that hold services
on Christmas Eve; but to whichever one goes, it is wise to hasten home and to get to bed in
season to have a pleasant Christmas Eve dream, as such is sure to come true, according to Russian
authority.

On Welikikdenj--Christmas--the people partake of an early meal. In some parts of the country
it is customary to send extremely formal invitations in the name of the host to the guests
who are expected to arrive that day. These are delivered by a special messenger and read somewhat
as follows:

"My master and mistress beg you to consider, Father Artanon Triphonowitsch, and you, Mother
Agaphia Nelidowna, that for thousands of years it has been thus; with us it has not commenced,
with us it will not end. Do not, therefore, disturb the festival; do not bring the good people
to despair. Without you there will be no pleasure at Philimon Spicidonowitsch's, without you
there will be no maiden festival at Anna Karpowna's."

Who could absent himself after such an invitation as this? The place of meeting has been decided
upon weeks earlier, for it must be with a well-to-do family possessing a large home to accommodate
the guests that usually assemble at Christmas. The "fair maidens," each with her mother and
retinue, arrive first on the scene, bringing cake and sweetmeats and gifts for the servants.
They would sooner freeze in their sledges before the gate than be guilty of alighting without
first receiving the greeting of their host and hostess. Having been welcomed, they next pray
before the icon, and then are ready for the pleasures arranged for them.

One peculiar phase of these house-parties is the selecting of partners for the maidens, which
is done by the hostess, the "elected" sometimes proving satisfactory and sometimes not. They
feast, play games, go snowballing, and guess riddles, always having a jolly good time. Reciters
of builinas (poems) are often present to sing and recite the whole night through, for of song
and poetry the Russian never tires.

A pretty custom very generally observed is the blessing of the house and household. The priest
visits each home in his district, accompanied by boys bearing a vessel of holy water; the priest
sprinkles each room with the water, each person present kissing the cross he carries and receiving
his benediction as he proceeds from room to room. Thus each home is sanctified for the ensuing
year.

The familiar greeting of "Merry Christmas" is not heard in Russia unless among foreigners,
the usual salutation on this day being "Greetings for the Lord's birth," to which the one addressed
replies, "God be with you."

The observance of New Year on January first, according to the Gregorian Calendar, was instituted
by Peter the Great in 1700. The previous evening is known as St. Sylvester's Eve, and is the
time of great fun and enjoyment. According to the poet, Vasili Andreivich Zhukivski:

    "St. Sylvester's evening hour,
    Calls the maidens round;
    Shoes to throw behind the door,
    Delve the snowy ground.
    Peep behind the window there,
    Burning wax to pour;
    And the corn for chanticleer,
    Reckon three times o'er.
    In the water-fountain fling
    Solemnly the golden ring
    Earrings, too, of gold;
    Kerchief white must cover them
    While we're chanting over them
    Magic songs of old."

Ovsen, a mythological being peculiar to the season, is supposed to make his entry about this
time, riding a boar (another indication of Aryan descent), and no Christmas or New Year's dinner
is considered complete without pork served in some form. The name of Ovsen, being so like the
French word for oats, suggests the possibility of this ancient god's supposed influence over
the harvests, and the honor paid him at the ingathering feasts in Roman times. Often the boys
sing the following Kolyadki:

    "Afield, afield, out in the open field!
    There a golden plough goes ploughing,
    And behind that plough is the Lord Himself.
    Holy Peter helps Him to drive,
    And the Mother of God carries the seed corn,
    Carries the seed corn, prays to the Lord God,
    Make, O Lord, the strong wheat to grow,
    The strong wheat and the vigorous corn!
    The stalks there shall be like reeds!
    The ears shall be (plentiful) as blades of grass!
    The sheaves shall be (in number) like the stars!
    The stacks shall be like hills,
    The loads shall be gathered together like black clouds."

How singularly appropriate it seems that boys, hungry at all times, should be the ones to implore
the god of fruitfulness to bestow upon their people an abundant harvest during the coming year!

In Petrograd the New Year is ushered in with a cannonade of one hundred shots fired at midnight.
The Czar formally receives the good wishes of his subjects, and the streets, which are prettily
decorated with flags and lanterns, are alive with people.

On New Year's Day the Winter Palace is opened to society, as is nearly every home in the city,
for at this season, at least, hospitality and charity are freely dispensed from palace and cottage.

