And, thirdly, having done all this, he must not charge the other with selfishness. As I read
the passage, I could not but feel that the master was rather selfish and inconsiderate. But
there is no such charge from the bond-servant. He exists to serve the interests of his master
and the selfishness or otherwise of his master does not come into it with him. But we? We can
perhaps allow ourselves to be "put upon" by others, and are willing perhaps not to be thanked
for what we do, but how we charge the other in our minds with selfishness! But that is not
the place of a bond-servant. He is to find in the selfishness of others but a further opportunity
to identify himself afresh with His Lord as the servant of all.

But there is a fourth step still to which we must go. Having done all that, there is no ground
for pride or self-congratulation, but we must confess that we are unprofitable servants, that
is, that we are of no real use to God or man in ourselves. We must confess again and again
that "in us, that is in our flesh, there dwelleth no good thing," that, if we have acted thus,
it is no thanks to us, whose hearts are naturally proud and stubborn, but only to the Lord
Jesus, who dwells in us and who has made us willing.

The bottom of self is quite knocked out by the fifth and last step--the admission that doing
and bearing what we have in the way of meekness and humility, we have not done one stitch more
than it was our duty to do. God made man in the first place simply that he might be God's bond-servant.
Man's sin has simply consisted in his refusal to be God's bond-servant. His restoration can
only be, then, a restoration to the position of a bond-servant. A man, then, has not done anything
specially meritorious when he has consented to take that position, for he was created and redeemed
for that very thing.

This, then, is the Way of the Cross. It is the way that God's lowly Bond-servant first trod
for us, and should not we, the bond-servants of that Bond-servant, tread it still? Does it
seem hard and forbidding, this way down? Be assured, it is the only way up. It was the way
by which the Lord Jesus reached the Throne, and it is the way by which we too reach the place
of spiritual power, authority and fruitfulness. Those who tread this path are radiant, happy
souls, overflowing with the life of their Lord. They have found "he that humbleth himself shall
be exalted" to be true for them as for their Lord. Where before humility was an unwelcome intruder
to be put up with only on occasions, she has now become the spouse of their souls, to whom
they have wedded themselves for ever. If darkness and unrest enter their souls it is only because
somewhere on some point they have been unwilling to walk with her in the paths of meekness
and brokenness. But she is ever ready to welcome them back into her company, as they seek her
face in repentance.

That brings us to the all-important matter of repentance. We shall not enter into more abundant
life merely by resolving that we shall be humbler in the future. There are attitudes and actions
which have already taken place and are still being persisted in (if only by our unwillingness
to apologise for them) that must first be repented of. The Lord Jesus did not take upon Him
the form of a bond-servant merely to give us an example, but that He might die for these very
sins upon the cross, and open a fountain in His precious Blood where they can all be washed
away. But that Blood cannot be applied to the sins of our proud heart until we have been broken
in repentance as to what has already happened and as to what we already are. This will mean
allowing the light of God to go through every part of our hearts and into every one of our
relationships.