    [Mrs. Bowdich is the widow of Mr. Thomas Edward Bowdich,
    who fell a victim to his enterprize in exploring the
    interior of Africa, in 1824. Mr. B. was a profound classic
    and linguist and member of several learned societies in
    England and abroad. In 1819 he published, in a quarto
    volume, his "Mission to Ashantee," a work of the highest
    importance and interest. Mrs. B., whose pencil has
    furnished embellishments for her husband's literary
    productions, has published "Excursions to Madeira, &c.,"
    and this amiable and accomplished lady has now in course
    of publication, a work on the Fresh-water Fishes of Great
    Britain.--The subsequent anecdotes are of equal interest
    to the student of natural history and the general reader,
    especially as they exhibit the habits and disposition of
    the Panther in a new light. This gentleman, observing
that the animal was very docile, took pains to tame him, and in a great
measure succeeded. When he was about a year old, Mr. Hutchison returned
to Cape Coast, and had him led through the country by a chain,
occasionally letting {37} him loose when eating was going forward, when
he would sit by his master's side, and receive his share with
comparative gentleness. Once or twice he purloined a fowl, but easily
gave it up to Mr. Hutchison, on being allowed a portion of something
else. The day of his arrival he was placed in a small court, leading to
the private rooms of the governor, and after dinner was led by a thin
cord into the room, where he received our salutations with some degree
of roughness, but with perfect good-humour. On the least encouragement
he laid his paws upon our shoulders, rubbed his head upon us, and his
teeth and claws having been filed, there was no danger of tearing our
clothes. He was kept in the above court for a week or two, and evinced
no ferocity, except when one of the servants tried to pull his food
from him; he then caught the offender by the leg, and tore out a piece
of flesh, but he never seemed to owe him any ill-will afterwards. He became exceedingly attached
to the governor, and followed him every-where like a dog. The children also stood
with him at the window; and one day, finding his presence an
encumbrance, and that they could not get their chairs close, they used
their united efforts to pull him down by the tail. He one morning
missed the governor, who was settling a dispute in the hall, and who,
being surrounded by black people, was hidden from the view of his
favourite. She screamed so violently as to summon the other
servants, but they, seeing the panther, as they thought, in the act of
swallowing her, one and all scampered off as quickly as possible; nor
was she released till the governor, who heard the noise, came to her
assistance. Strangers were naturally uncomfortable when they saw so
powerful a beast at perfect liberty, and many were the ridiculous
scenes which took place, they not liking to own their alarm, yet
perfectly unable to retain their composure in his presence.

This interesting animal was well fed twice every day, but never given any thing with life in
it. He stood about two feet high, and was of a dark yellow colour, thickly spotted with black
rosettes, and from the good feeding and the care taken to clean him, his skin shone like silk.
The expression of his countenance was very animated and good-tempered, and he was particularly
gentle to children; he would lie down on the mats by their side when they slept, and even the
infant shared his caresses, and remained unhurt. During the period of his residence at Cape
Coast, I was much occupied by making arrangements for my departure from Africa, but generally
visited my future companion every day, and we, in consequence, became great friends before
we sailed. He was conveyed on board the vessel in a large, wooden cage, thickly barred in the
front with iron. {38} Even this confinement was not deemed a sufficient protection by the canoe
men,[1] who were so alarmed at taking him from the shore to the vessel, that, in their confusion,
they dropped cage and all into the sea. When I first spoke, he raised his head, held it on
one side, then on the other, to listen; and when I came fully into his view, he jumped on his
legs, and appeared frantic; he rolled himself over and over, he howled, he opened his enormous
jaws and cried, and seemed as if he would have torn his cage to pieces. However, as his violence
subsided, he contented himself with thrusting his paws and nose through the bars of the cage,
to receive my caresses.

The greatest treat I could bestow upon my favourite was lavender water. By this I taught him
to put out his paws without showing his nails, always refusing the lavender water till he had
drawn them back again; and in a short time he never, on any occasion, protruded his claws when
offering me his paw.

We lay eight weeks in the river Gaboon, where he had plenty of excellent food, but was never
suffered to leave his cage, on account of the deck being always filled with black strangers,
to whom he had a very decided aversion, although he was perfectly reconciled to white people.
His indignation, however, was constantly excited by the pigs, when they were suffered to run
past his cage; and the sight of one of the monkeys put him in a complete fury. While at anchor
in the before-mentioned river, an orang-outang (Símia Sátyrus) was brought for sale, and lived
three days on board; and I shall never forget the uncontrollable rage of the one, or the agony
of the other, at this meeting. The orang was about three feet high, and very powerful in proportion
to his size; so that when he fled with extraordinary rapidity from the panther to the further
end of the deck, neither men nor things remained upright when they opposed his progress: there
he took refuge in a sail, and although generally obedient to the voice of his master, force
was necessary to make him quit the shelter of its folds.

