The Marquis of Lafayette came to this country to give his aid in the struggle for liberty in
1777, and his first battle was that of the Brandywine. Washington was trying to stop the march
of the British toward Philadelphia. There was some mistake in regard to the roads, and the
American troops were badly beaten. Lafayette plunged into the heart of the fight, and just
as the Americans gave way, he received a musket-ball in the thigh. This was the 11th of September.
Writing to his wife the next day, he said:

"Our Americans held their ground firmly for quite a time, but were finally put to rout. In
trying to rally them, Messieurs the English paid me the compliment of a gunshot, which wounded
me slightly in the leg; but that's nothing, my dear heart; the bullet touched neither bone
nor nerve, and it will cost nothing more than lying on my back some time, which puts me in
bad humor."

But the wound of which the marquis wrote so lightly, in order to re-assure his beloved wife,
kept him confined for more than six weeks. He was carried on a boat up to Bristol, and when
the fugitive Congress left there, he was taken to the Moravian settlement at Bethlehem, where
he was kindly cared for. On the 1st of October he wrote again to his wife:

"As General Howe, when he gives his royal master a high-flown account of his American exploits,
must report me wounded, he may report me killed; it would cost nothing; but I hope you won't
put any faith in such reports. As to the wound, the surgeons are astonished at the promptness
of its healing. They fall into ecstasies whenever they dress it, and protest that it's the
most beautiful thing in the world. As for me, I find it a very disgusting thing, wearisome
and quite painful. That depends on tastes. But, after all, if a man wanted to wound himself
for fun, he ought to come and see how much I enjoy it."

He was very grateful for the attention he received. "All the doctors in America," he writes,
"are in motion for me. I have a friend who has spoken in such a way that I am well nursed--General
Washington. This worthy man, whose talents and virtues I admire, whom I venerate more the more
I know him, has kindly become my intimate friend.... I am established in his family; we live
like two brothers closely united, in reciprocal intimacy and confidence. When he sent me his
chief surgeon, he told him to care for me as if I were his son, for he loved me as such." This
friendship between the great commander, in the prime of life, and the French boy of twenty,
is one of the most touching incidents of our history.

       *       *       *       *       *

=The Rock of Gibraltar.=--This great natural fortification, which among military men is regarded
as the key to the Mediterranean Sea, abounds in caverns, many of which are natural, while others
have been made by the explosion of gunpowder in the centre of the mountain, forming great vaults
of such height and extent that in case of a siege they would contain the whole garrison. The
caverns (the most considerable is the hall of St. George) communicate with the batteries established
all along the mountain by a winding road, passable throughout on horseback.

