    --"He could not ope
    His mouth, but out there flew a trope."

The other more finished leader of the class mystifies you with metaphysics, half conned and
unmastered by himself--more anxious still to make his points than to please his party; and,
of the two, would rather sink his country than his climax. He is a rhetorician, a dealer in
set phraseology, an ingenious gatherer and polisher of "other men's stuff." Of the faiseurs,
may be repeated what Marshal Marmont, in his Voyage en Hongrie, en Transylvanie, &c., says
of the faiseurs of Paris--"Subjugués par le gout et cette manie d'uniformité absolue, qui est
la maladie de l'époque, et qui resulte de principes abstraits, dont l'application est presque
toujours funeste aux peuples qui l'éprouvent, ils ignoraient combien il est dans la nature
des choses et dans le bien des nations de modifier l'organization sociale suivant le temps,
les lieux, suivant le plus on moins grana degré de civilization, et d'après mille circonstances,
qui ne peuvent être prévues d'avance, mais que le legislateur capable apprecie au moment où
il est appélé à fonder la société." On the cession of the Illyrian provinces, by Austria, after
the battle of Wagram, the faiseurs, or abstract principle men, of Paris, were prompt with their
plans, not for "constitutions"--Bonaparte had put an end to that branch of their métier--but
for reorganizing the laws, administration, &c., of Transylvania de fond en comble, without
knowing any thing of the people or country, without having seen either the one or the other.
Marmont, appointed governor of the ceded provinces, who had studied on the spot the institutions
established by Austria, found these so perfect and well adapted to the genius and inclination
of the population, and the purposes of government, that he opposed the faiseurs with success,
and, by his representations, induced Bonaparte to confirm and act upon what existed.

This immense agglomeration, this monstrous over-production of the tribes of farceurs, faiseurs,
and phraseurs is a misfortune of the first magnitude--a pest worse than that of the locusts
which lay waste the land of Egypt, as here the substance of the people is devoured. Conflagrations
may, and do, occasionally diminish the number of cotton-mills, and lighten the warehoused accumulation
of cottons, or other inert matter; but no lucky plague, pestilence, or cholera, comes to thin
the crowded phalanx, and rid this empire of some portion of the interminable brood of mongers
of all shapes and sizes. As Horace says--

    "'Tis hard, but patience must endure
    And bear the woes it cannot cure."

And now, leaving this discursive preliminary sketch, the length of which was unpremeditated,
of the leading influences which are fast hurrying to social disorganization, it is time that
once more we stand face to face with the one disorganizing doctrine of one-sided free trade;
with the banner on which the phraseurs and farceurs have inscribed the cabalistic devices,
in flaming characters--"Leave the imports alone, the exports will take care of themselves;"
and, "A fixed duty is a fixed injustice." One might be tempted to believe the first borrowed
from the armorial bearings of Lord Huntingtower's "bill" friends, whose motto is, or should
be--"Leave the fools alone, and the knaves will take care of themselves;" the second is clearly
no better than a petty-larceny paraphrase of Newgate felony, in whose code of duties it stands
decreed, from all time, that "a fixed law is a fixed despotism."

The history of industry and commerce in every country, from the most ancient down to modern
times, gives the lie to these pertly pretending truisms; for there is scarcely one branch of
manufacture to be named which does not owe its rise, progress, and perfection, to the protective
or financial, or both combined, control exercised over imports. If we look at home only, where,
we ask, would the woollen manufacture be now, but for the early laws restrictive of the importation
of foreign woollens, nay more, restrictive of the export of British fleeces with which the
manufactories of Belgium were alimented? Where the cotton trade, even with all Arkwright and
Crompton's inventions of mule and throstle frames, and the steam-engine wonders of Watt, but
for the importation tax of 87 per cent with which the cotton manufactures of India were weighted
and finally crushed? Where the British iron mines and the iron trade, now so pre-eminent over
all the world, but for the heavy import duties with which the iron of Swedish, Russian, or
other foreign origin was loaded? And so also, may it be asked, in respect to almost all industry
and production. If, as contended, the woollen, cotton, and iron industries would not only have
been created, but much more largely have flourished, without the aids and appliances of friendly
tariffs, the one-sided free traders are, at least, bound to something more potential than mere
assertion and idle declamation in support of the vague allegation. They have the evidence of
facts patent and abundant to confront and gainsay them; they shall have more; but is there
to be no reciprocation of facts counter? Is the evidence and the argument to remain all on
one side, and on the other nothing but wordy nothingness--

          "Dat inania verba,
    Dat sine mente sonum."

Where are the unknown lands of factories and furnaces, of puddling and power looms, of steam-engines
and blowing machines, all self-created and "self-supporting," scorning the crutches of patronage,
and high-mounted on the stilts of free, or one-sided free trade? Either they exist in the shape
of matter tangible and substantial; or they exist not except as chateaux en Espagne are dreamt
of, or as bubbles blown and chased by idle urchins--modern philosophers in petticoats. This
bubble-blowing has been, indeed, converted into something of a mine of industry of late years,
most successfully exploité by all the chevaliers d'industrie of the race of farceurs before
referred to. Let us not forget, however, that one of the most indefatigable of the class, after
various and many voyages by sea, and travels by land, in quest of the picturesque in political
economy, did, indeed--or says so, and has compiled a book to prove it--light on this long-sought,
never-before discovered land, in whose Arcadian bowers sits enthroned the very genius of trade,
free and unfettered as the eagle in his eyry on the crowning crest of St Gotthard. Would you
know this thrice-blest region--"Go climb the Alps," as the Roman satirist bids--it is Switzerland
snugly ensconced in their bosom.

Nevertheless, before the title of Switzerland Felix be fully conceded, the legitimacy of its
derivation remains to be investigated. The concession can only be registered upon three conditions
fulfilled. It must be shown, firstly, that manufacturing industry was not fostered in its early
stages by the governing power; secondly, that if it had attained a large development unprotected,
the proportions of such development shall have been at the least equal, as upon the theory
of free trade they should be superior, to the ratio of progression manifested in other countries
where protection has been the ruling principle; thirdly, that free trade was not a necessity
imposed by circumstances and position, not the result of a barter of value for value, but of
free and spontaneous choice, and as the result of the profound conviction of the superior excellency
and adaptability of the abstract principle. We shall deal briefly with the subject, because
it has been discussed more at length heretofore in those special articles in which we have
treated of the rise and progress of the cotton manufacture in this and other countries. In
regard to the first condition, it was established on a former occasion, that the ruling powers
of one or more of the Cantons, did advance large capitals, and offered more, in order to encourage
and assist in the establishment of cotton-spinning mills, with machinery of the most perfect
construction, under the superintendence, and with a share in the profits, of persons duly skilled
from England. Happily, one of the individuals to whom such offers (on the basis of a £100,000
capital) were made, and by whom declined, then and subsequently one of the largest exporting
merchants of Lancashire to Switzerland, and the Continent generally, still lives, and we have
had the statement confirmed by himself within the last two or three years. This was somewhere
between 1795 and 1800, further our memory does not serve for the precise date at present, nor
is it indispensable. A manufacture thus, as may be said, artificially created and bolstered
up, we do not say unwisely, does not assuredly answer the first condition required. With respect
to the measure of the manufacturing development, the data are unfortunately wanting for precise
verification; for Switzerland possesses no returns of foreign trade at all, nor can any satisfactory
approximation be arrived at from inspection of the official tables of the foreign and transit
commerce now before us of Holland, Belgium, and France, through which all the transmarine intercourse
of Switzerland must necessarily pass. The exports and imports of Holland, by the Rhine, are
not so classed as to show what proportion appertains to Germany and what to Switzerland, as
both stand under the one head of Germany and the Rhine. In the Belgian tables, Switzerland
does not enter at all until 1841, therefore they can afford no materials for the comparison
with former years. From the French tables, more scientifically constructed, correct information
may be gathered, so far as the commerce with and through France. But we are wanting nearly
altogether in materials for estimating the land traffic of Switzerland with Germany and Italy.
Taking the French tables alone, it may be collected, however, that the commerce of Switzerland
has been considerably on the increase with and through France. In the cotton trade, for example,
the imports of raw cotton in transit through Havre, for Switzerland, had already augmented
from 2,973,159 kilogrammes in 1830, to 6,446,703 kilogrammes in 1836; and again, from the latter
term, to 104,842 metrical quintals in 1840, which declined to 77,534 in 1841. Our returns do
not enable us to state with exactitude whether the whole, or what portion, of the transit of
cotton for the two latter years was destined for Switzerland, because our French tables do
not, as up to 1836, embrace the details of the separate transit trade to each country, but
only the total quantities. The increase of imports by way of France must not, however, be taken
to all the extent as an absolute increase, nor can we conclude, with any assurance, that it
was an increase upon the whole. For, in consequence of some important reductions in the dues
agreed to by France in order to favour and attract the entire transit trade of Switzerland
through its territory, the cottons formerly passed to Switzerland through Rotterdam and Antwerp
by the Rhine, have been sent by way of Havre. Thus, on consulting Mr Porter's Tables of Trade,
we find that the twenty-one millions of lbs. of cotton re-exported to Holland and Belgium in
1837, had decreased, in 1840, to little more than twelve millions. What proportion of the twenty-one
millions was destined for Switzerland, there are no means of ascertaining, except from the
returns in detail of the Rhine navigation, the existence of which, in any available shape,
may be doubted. Assuming that the whole of the cotton passing in transit through France was
for Switzerland, we find a quantity equal to about seventeen millions of pounds, in 1841, as
required for the supply of the cotton manufacture; or say, on a rough average of 1840 and 1841,
nineteen and a half millions of pounds. Now, considering that the cotton manufacture has been
established in Switzerland above a century, these figures certainly demonstrate any thing but
an extraordinary rate of progress. The cotton manufacture of Russia does not number half the
years of existence, and yet the average consumption of raw cotton, in 1840 and 1841, was nearly
thirteen millions of pounds, and of cotton yarn, rendered into cotton,[J] about twenty-three
millions more. It must be noted, moreover, that whereas subsequently to the inventions of Arkwright
and Crompton, Switzerland drew nearly the whole of her yarns for making into cloths from England,
not possessing herself any spinning machinery until the commencement of the present century,
and then but to a trivial extent, with scarcely any augmentation of importance, until some
years after the general peace of 1815; yet that, within the last twenty years, the use of machinery
has been extensively introduced, cotton factories have spread on all sides, for working which
water-power in abundance afforded every facility, so that she now spins nearly all the yarns
necessary for her fabrics, and imports from England but a very slender quantity of the higher
counts still required for her finest muslins. Those imports do not perhaps exceed, if they
reach to, one million pounds per annum. Of many merchants in Manchester, thirty or forty years
ago, extensively engaged in furnishing that supply, but one or two at present are to be found.
It remains, therefore, doubtful whether there has been any material progress in the cotton
manufactures of Switzerland, so far as the quantities of fabrics produced, and the weight of
cotton consumed, for many years past. Through the commercial arrangements before referred to,
her special trade with France in all commodities has been on the increase; but, as the usual
result of the commercial treaties of France, all to the advantage of France. Thus, for 1841,
the imports (special trade of internal consumption) of France from Switzerland are stated at
twenty-two millions of francs only, whilst the exports of France to Switzerland amounted to
thirty-nine millions. This, be it observed, is the result of one-sided free trade, which opens
its gates to all, whilst partially favoured only in return, when at all. Switzerland, for example,
is free to the import of French cottons; France hermetically sealed against those of Switzerland.
The general trade, that is, inclusive of transit and special, had also materially improved;
the aggregate imports representing eighty-three millions of imports into, against eighty-nine
millions of exports from Switzerland; or that the general trade with France had rather more
than doubled since 1832, imports and exports together. The transit portion of this general
trade, representing all the transmarine movement of Switzerland, is that rather, it may be
said, carried on with the United States Spanish America, Brazil, &c., in which the greatest
improvement of her foreign trade had taken place. She has, on the contrary, very largely lost
ground in Germany, where she enjoyed marts for her manufactures, before the establishment of
the Commercial Union, of an extensive and profitable description, from the advantages of her
geographical position; and it is probable, that from the same cause she will have lost no inconsiderable
portion of the share her merchants had in the supply of Turkey, Persia, and other countries
on the shores of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea. With Holland and Belgium, her commercial
relations would seem to have been sensibly on the decline, so far as the returns, available
and comparative, enable us to form an opinion. Upon a balance, therefore, of increase, upon
one side, and decrease on the other, there is reasonable ground to question any progress in
Switzerland, at all commensurate with the general accelerated movement in manufactures and
commerce of other industrial countries about her, and beyond the seas; in exemplification of
which, we have on other occasions presented, as we shall continue to present, evidence which
may not be questioned.

Therefore, it results, that the second condition in proof of the superiority of the free, or
one-sided free trade principle, as represented in Switzerland, the embodied beau idéal of the
theory, is not fulfilled. It were easy, indeed, to show the absurdity of a pretension to the
rigorous reign of a principle, in a country where, though the federal government levies are
merely nominal duties on imported commodities, for other than which it is and must ever be
powerless, whatever the will, yet in the separate cantons or chief towns with barriers, scarcely
any article enters and escapes without payment of an octroi impost, equal to a moderate state
duty on importation at the ports or frontiers of other states. What would be said in this country,
if wool, cotton, or any commodity entering free, or at merely nominal rates, at London or Liverpool,
were to be taxed on arrival at Leeds or Manchester, for purposes of local revenue or local
protection?

We may afford to dismiss the third condition in the smallest space. Free trade in Switzerland,
such as it is, is not an affair of principle, of conviction, therefore of choice, as ridiculously
pretended, but a necessity arising out of her geographical position. On all sides she is surrounded
enclavée, amidst states which hold the gates of ingress and egress. Close the Rhine and the
Seine against her, and she must surrender commercially at discretion, as she politically does,
to such terms as may be dictated. A heavy péage upon river or land transit, ruins her manufactories,
her industry, root and branch. She is too happy only, therefore, to be tolerated with a passage
to the sea, on the hard terms of surrendering the just rights of her own industry to the free
invasion of foreign competing products; she makes, ex necessitate, the sacrifice of a large
portion, in order to save the remainder. Would you have the commentary? Read it in the miserable
fare, the low wages, the toil unremitting and uncompensated, of the operative masses; in the
depressed rate of profits, the strict, painful, but indispensable frugality of master manufacturers
and capitalists, when perchance capitalists may be found, of Switzerland surnamed Felix, over-borne
by foreign competition, as depicted in the Report of that romance writer, Mr John Bowring himself,
who, of all men, in his own particular case, would be the last to advocate short commons, shabby
salaries, or petty profits. Switzerland, therefore, answers none of the conditions required
for the demonstration of the free trade theory upon the greatest profit, or even upon the greatest
happiness principle, the verba ardentia of anti-corn-law declaimers, and utilitarian poetasters,
notwithstanding. But if the case of the free and one-sided trade theory breaks down in its
one only deceptive personification, the proofs are strong and abundant in behalf the cause
of the legitimate principle of protection to industry, or of the reciprocity principle well
understood, which involves essentially the principle of protection. Let us discursively range
over Europe, in further addition to the evidence, which, in respect of Russia, has already
been assigned; and, as with regard to Spain, and Russia as well, we shall not hesitate to signalize
the abuse of a righteous principle, where in practice it degenerates into the Japanese barbarism
of almost absolute prohibition and isolation. A comparison betwixt Switzerland and Japan, two
nearly stationary states, where all around is in progress in the industrial sense, ruled upon
economical principles so opposite and conflicting, would be a labour both amusing and profitable;
but unfortunately the adequate materials are wanting in the one case as in the other; state-books
of account and custom-house returns, are as rare and unheard of in Nangasaki as in Helvetia.
Fiscal exactions, however, are not unknown in either, the difference being, that the despotic
majesty of Japan undertakes them upon his own account, whilst the people of the Alps, as intractable,
with better right, impose and levy for their own use and behoof. Withal, to the one-idea'd
philosophy of your absolute theory, systematic, uniformity men of the present day, it should
seem an extraordinary paradox, putting all speculation to rout, that despotic Japan should
be as prosperous, more powerful, more free from intestine convulsion, although more ancient
of standing, therefore to be presumed enjoying at least as much happiness as free and unfettered
Switzerland, rioting betimes in all the freaks of liberty and revolution.

We do not propose to extend our enquiries into the history of industrial progress in other
lands further on the present occasion, than to such external demonstrations, as measured by
imports and exports, as may with most convenient brevity and fidelity answer the purpose in
view. The possession of authentic documents in ample degree, expository of the past and present
conditions of social and material interests in almost all the civilized states of the world,
would enable us to follow out, in minute detail, the rise, the career, the vicissitudes of
each; but although, on future and suitable occasions, we may be induced to resume and pursue
the task already commenced in former numbers, it is not necessary now, and would far outstrip
any possible space at our disposal. Commencing with Austria, it may be shown, that even with
an ill-considered economical régime of, until of late years, general prohibitions and restrictions,
with the incessant and ill-judged policy of forcing manufacturing industry, for the hasty development
of which the natural foundations were not previously laid, whilst neglecting the cultivation
and encouragement of those varied agricultural and mining treasures, with which, through the
length and breadth of her territory, she is so abundantly stored, the advance of Austria, commercial
and manufacturing, need not assuredly fear comparison with that of free-trading Switzerland.
The following are the returns of the foreign trade of the Austrian empire, excepting for Hungary
and Transylvania, which will be found hereafter for the years cited. Other documents are in
our possession, bringing the information down to 1840, but as not entirely complete in respect
of a portion of the traffic by the land frontiers, whilst in results they differ little from
the last year of the table here given, it is not worth while to make the addition.

                   Imports.                 Exports.          Total.
1829 By sea & land 95,321,861 florins.   107,254,048     202,575,909
1830      ...      99,545,289    ...     110,587,974     210,133 263
1831      ...      94,116,471    ...      98,937,022     193,053,493
1832      ...     107,825,991    ...     115,007,352     222,833,343
1833      ...     106,270,012    ...     116,624,202     222,894,214
1834      ...     107,781,409    ...     111,092,942     218,874,351
1835      ...     121,482,876    ...     115,217,804     236,700,680
1836      ...     130,865,339    ...     122,284,173     253,149,512
1837      ...     120,897,761    ...     119,721,758     240,619,519
1838      ...     127,445,295    ...     134,908,064     262,353,359

The florin is equal to 2s. 0d. 4-10 sterling. The increase under the head of importations within
the ten years was equal, therefore, to nearly 33 per cent, and on exportations about 24 per
cent. Amongst the imports may be remarked raw cotton to the value of about L.1,273,000; among
the exports, raw silk, for about L.2,400,000; linens, for about L.770,000; woollens, for L.2,268,000;
glass and earthen-ware, L.584,000; round numbers all. A mean value, imports and exports together,
from 1835 to 1838 inclusive, of about twenty-five millions sterling annually, does not certainly
represent a commercial movement so large as might be expected in an empire of the territorial
extent, numerous population, and rich natural products of Austria. But, as appears, its progression
is onwards; and seeing that, in 1836, she entered on the laudable undertaking of revising and
reforming her prohibitory and restrictive system; that, in 1838, another not inconsiderable
step in advance was taken by further relaxations of the tariff; and that she is at the present
moment occupied with, and may shortly announce, fiscal improvements and tariff reductions of
a more wisely liberal spirit still, it is not to be doubted that, with the accompanying extension
of agricultural and mining industry, Austria is destined to take a much higher rank in the
commercial world than she has yet attained.

The values of the external relations of Hungary and Transylvania with foreign nations direct,
are of little importance. The bulk of the traffic with them doubtless passes through the Austrian
dominions, properly so called. Thus their joint foreign traffic direct, was in--

    1830, no more than 14,000,000 florins
    1834, decreased to 11,511,000   ...
    1837,      ...     12,616,000   ...

The imports, only once, in 1836, surpassed those of 1830, within the eight years. The foreign
exports were, in

    1830, to the amount of         ...        9,574,800 florins.
    1837, the yearly amount had increased to 11,213,400   ...

But the commercial relations of Hungary and Transylvania, with the other provinces of the Austrian
monarchy, were, on the contrary, satisfactorily extending. The returns before us, never before
published here, it is believed, do not date further back than 1835, and exhibit the following
results:--

                                  Florins.                     Florins.
    1835, Imports from Austria,  79,678,051    Exports to,    46,408,290
    1836,          ...           96,057,019       ...         53,876,115
    1837,          ...           90,404,555       ...         47,878,424
    1838,          ...          101,396,470       ...         61,684,111

The value of manufactured cottons alone, imported from the other Austrian provinces, amounted,
in 1838, to the almost incredible sum of sixty-four millions of florins, or say not far short
of six and a half millions sterling; of woollens, the import was nearly to the value of eighteen
millions of florins. It is difficult to conceive that such a mass of cottons could be destined
for internal consumption alone; and therefore the suggestion naturally occurs, that a considerable
portion at least must pass only in transit to the ports for re-exportation to the coasts of
the Black Sea and the Levant; but on reference to the exports, we find cottons entered only
for 31,296 florins. The proportions in which the different leading articles of importation
and exportation enter into the total amounts of each may be thus stated:--

                   Imports
    Cottons for                62 per cent.
    Woollens,                  17    ...
    Linen and hempen fabrics,  4º7   ...
    Silks,                     1º7

                    Exports
    Wool for                   45.6 per cent.
    Grains and fruits,         19     ...
    Cattle,                    12     ...
    Various raw products,     5º7     ...

