She did so, and turned round. There was not a tremor of fear in her behaviour, and she marched
directly up to me like a queen. I was barefoot, and clad like a common sailor, save for an
Egyptian scarf round my waist; and she probably took me at first for some one from the fisher
village, straying after bait. As for her, when I thus saw her face to face, her eyes set steadily
and imperiously upon mine, I was filled with admiration and astonishment, and thought her even
more beautiful than I had looked to find her. Nor could I think enough of one who, acting with
so much boldness, yet preserved a maidenly air that was both quaint and engaging; for my wife
kept an old-fashioned precision of manner through all her admirable life--an excellent thing
in woman, since it sets another value on her sweet familiarities.

"What does this mean?" she asked.

"You were walking," I told her, "directly into Graden Floe."

"You do not belong to these parts," she said again. "You speak like an educated man."

"I believe I have right to that name," said I, "although in this disguise."

But her woman's eye had already detected the sash.

"Oh!" she said; "your sash betrays you."

"You have said the word betray," I resumed. "May I ask you not to betray me? I was obliged
to disclose myself in your interest; but if Northmour learned my presence it might be worse
than disagreeable for me."

"Do you know," she asked, "to whom you are speaking?"

"Not to Mr. Northmour's wife?" I asked, by way of answer.

She shook her head. All this while she was studying my face with an embarrassing intentness.
Then she broke out--

"You have an honest face. Be honest like your face, sir, and tell me what you want and what
you are afraid of. Do you think I could hurt you? I believe you have far more power to injure
me! And yet you do not look unkind. What do you mean--you, a gentleman--by skulking like a
spy about this desolate place? Tell me," she said, "who is it you hate?"

"I hate no one," I answered; "and I fear no one face to face. My name is Cassilis--Frank Cassilis.
I lead the life of a vagabond for my own good pleasure. I am one of Northmour's oldest friends;
and three nights ago, when I addressed him on these links, he stabbed me in the shoulder with
a knife."

"It was you!" she said.

"Why he did so," I continued, disregarding the interruption, "is more than I can guess, and
more than I care to know. I have not many friends, nor am I very susceptible to friendship;
but no man shall drive me from a place by terror. I had camped in Graden Sea-Wood ere he came;
I camp in it still. If you think I mean harm to you or yours, madam, the remedy is in your
hand. Tell him that my camp is in the Hemlock Den, and to-night he can stab me in safety while
I sleep."

With this I doffed my cap to her, and scrambled up once more among the sand-hills. I do not
know why, but I felt a prodigious sense of injustice, and felt like a hero and a martyr; while,
as a matter of fact, I had not a word to say in my defence, nor so much as one plausible reason
to offer for my conduct. I had stayed at Graden out of a curiosity natural enough, but undignified;
and though there was another motive growing in along with the first, it was not one which,
at that period, I could have properly explained to the lady of my heart.

