"After many years of extensive practice, I have arrived at the conclusion that cuttings of
almost every plant cultivated by the florist or nurseryman will readily and uniformly root,
if the proper conditions of TEMPERATURE and MOISTURE are given them. It matters little or nothing
how the cutting is made, or what may be the color or texture of the sand or soil in which it
is planted; these have little or nothing to do with the formation of roots. But an absolute
condition of invariable success is uniformity of temperature and moisture. To attain this uniformity,
the structure of the house is of vital importance; and it is owing to the erroneous construction
of buildings for this purpose that so many have to deplore their want of success. I will briefly
describe the construction of the propagating pit we have in use, and the manner of operations,
which will best explain my views on the matter. The pit, which faces north, is 65 feet in length
by 8 in width, and 3 feet high at back by 1 in front, the pathway being dug out to give head-room
in walking. The front bench is 3 feet wide, walk 2 feet, and back bench 3 feet. All along the
front bench run two wooden gutters 9 inches wide by 3 inches deep, the water in which is heated
by a small conical boiler connected by two pieces of leaden pipe to the gutters. Three inches
above the water in the gutters is placed the slate or flagging, (resting on cross slats of
wood,) on which is two inches of sand. By regular firing we keep a temperature in the sand
from 55 to 75°; and as the pit has no other means of heating, except that given out by the
sand in the bench, the atmosphere of the house at night is only from 40° to 50°, or 25 degrees
less than the "bottom heat." In the daytime, (in order as much as possible to keep up this
disparity between the "top" and "bottom" heat,) a little air is given, and shading the glass
resorted to, to enable us to keep the temperature of the house down. And here let me remark,
that when propagation is attempted in green-houses used for growing plants, (such houses facing
south or southeast,) the place usually used for the cuttings is the front table; and it being
injurious to the plants to shade the whole house, that part over the cuttings alone is shaded;
the consequence is, that the sun, acting on the glass, runs the temperature of the house up,
perhaps, to 80°, or above that of the bottom heat, the cuttings wilt, and the process of rooting
is delayed, if not entirely defeated. All gardeners know the difficulty of rooting cuttings
as warm weather comes on. When the thermometer marks 80° in the shade fires are laid aside;
and if the rooting of cuttings is attempted, the sand or soil in which they are planted will
be 10 or 15 degrees lower than the atmosphere, or the opposite of the condition required for
success.

The advantage possessed by the gutter or tank, as a means of bottom heat, over smoke flues
or pipes, is in its giving a uniform moisture, cuttings scarcely ever requiring water after
being first put in, and then only to settle the sand about them. Still, when this convenience
is not to be had, very good success may be attained by closing in the flue or pipes, regularity
in watering, and a rigid adherence to these degrees of temperature.

