     "Were it not for these facts, this Declaration would never
     contain the words: 'and placed under the sceptre of the
     dynasty Habsburg-Lorraine.' It was, therefore, necessary to
     insert these words in order to make possible the public
     announcement of this Declaration; it was necessary to make a
     moral sacrifice for the sake of a great moral and material
     gain, which was secured through this Declaration among the
     people to which it was addressed and which understood it in
     the sense and in the spirit of the Declaration of Corfu."]

APPENDIX II

THE PACT OF CORFU

At the conference of the members of the late (Serbian) Coalition Cabinet and those of the present
Cabinet, and also the representatives of the Jugo-Slav Committee in London, all of whom have
hitherto been working on parallel lines, views have been exchanged in collaboration with the
president of the Skupstina, on all questions concerning the life of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes
in their joint future State.

We are happy in being able once more on this occasion to point to the complete unanimity of
all parties concerned.

In the first place, the representatives of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes declare anew and
most categorically that our people constitutes but one nation, and that it is one in blood,
one by the spoken and written language, by the continuity and unity of the territory in which
it lives, and finally in virtue of the common and vital interests of its national existence
and the general development of its moral and material life.

The idea of its national unity has never suffered extinction, although all the intellectual
forces of its enemy were directed against its unification, its liberty and its national existence.
Divided between several States, our nation is in Austria-Hungary alone split up into eleven
provincial administrations, coming under thirteen legislative bodies. The feeling of national
unity, together with the spirit of liberty and independence, have supported it in the never-ending
struggles of centuries against the Turks in the East and against the Germans and the Magyars
in the West.

Being numerically inferior to its enemies in the East and West, it was impossible for it to
safeguard its unity as a nation and a State, its liberty and its independence against the brutal
maxim of "might goes before right" militating against it both East and West.

But the moment has come when our people is no longer isolated. The war imposed by German militarism
upon Russia, upon France and upon England for the defense of their honor as well as for the
liberty and independence of small nations, has developed into a struggle for the Liberty of
the World and the Triumph of Right over Might. All nations which love liberty and independence
have allied themselves together for their common defense, to save civilization and liberty
at the cost of every sacrifice, to establish a new international order based upon justice and
upon the right of every nation to dispose of itself and so organize its independent life; finally
to establish a durable peace consecrated to the progress and development of humanity and to
secure the world against a catastrophe similar to that which the conquering lust of German
Imperialism has provoked.

To noble France, who has proclaimed the liberty of nations, and to England, the hearth of liberty,
the Great American Republic and the new, free and democratic Russia have joined themselves
in proclaiming as their principal war aim the triumph of liberty and democracy and as basis
of the new international order the right of free self-determination for every nation.

Our nation of the three names, which has been the greatest sufferer under brute force and injustice
and which has made the greatest sacrifices to preserve its right of self-determination, has
with enthusiasm accepted this sublime principle put forward as the chief aim of this atrocious
war, provoked by the violation of this very principle.

The authorized representatives of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, in declaring that it is the
desire of our people to free itself from every foreign yoke and to constitute itself a free,
national and independent State, a desire based on the principle that every nation has the right
to decide its own destiny, are agreed in judging that this State should be founded on the following
modern and democratic principles:

(1) The State of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, who are also known as the Southern Slavs or
Jugo-Slavs, will be a free and independent kingdom, with indivisible territory and unity of
allegiance. It will be a constitutional, democratic and parliamentary monarchy under the Karageorgevitch
Dynasty, which has always shared the ideas and the feelings of the nation, placing liberty
and the national will above all else.

(2) This State will be named "THE KINGDOM OF THE SERBS, CROATS, AND SLOVENES." And the style
of the Sovereign will be "KING OF THE SERBS, CROATS, AND SLOVENES."

(3) The State will have a single coat-of-arms, a single flag, and a single crown. These emblems
will be composed of the present existing emblems. The unity of the State will be symbolized
by the coat-of-arms and the flag of the Kingdom.

(4) The special Serb, Croat, and Slovene flags rank equally and may be freely hoisted on all
occasions. The special coat-of-arms may be used with equal freedom.

(5) The three national designations--Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes--are equal before the law
throughout the territory of the Kingdom, and everyone may use them freely upon all occasions
of public life and in dealing with the authorities.

(6) The two alphabets, the Cyrillic and the Latin, also rank equally, and everyone may use
them freely throughout the territory of the Kingdom. The royal authorities and the local self-governing
authorities have both the right and the duty to employ both alphabets in accordance with the
wishes of the citizens.

(7) All recognized religions may be freely and publicly exercised. The Orthodox, Roman Catholic
and Mussulman faiths, which are those chiefly professed by our nation, shall rank equally and
enjoy equal rights with regard to the State.

In consideration of these principles the legislative will take special care to safeguard religious
concord in conformity with the spirit and tradition of our whole nation.

(8) The calendar will be unified as soon as possible.

(9) The territory of the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes will include all the territory
inhabited compactly and in territorial continuity by our nation of the three names. It cannot
be mutilated without detriment to the vital interests of the community.

Our nation demands nothing that belongs to others. It demands only what is its own. It desires
to free itself and to achieve its unity. Therefore it consciously and firmly refuses every
partial solution of the problem of its national liberation and unification. It puts forward
the proposition of its deliverance from Austro-Hungarian domination and its union with Serbia
and Montenegro in a single State forming an indivisible whole.

In accordance with the right of self-determination of peoples, no part of this territorial
totality may without infringement of justice be detached and incorporated with some other State
without the consent of the nation itself.

(10) In the interests of freedom and of the equal right of all nations, the Adriatic shall
be free and open to each and all.

(11) All citizens throughout the territory of the Kingdom shall be equal and enjoy the same
rights with regard to the State and before the Law.

