THE GREAT CONSPIRACY

                         Its Origin and History

                                 Part 2

                                   BY

                               JOHN LOGAN

                              CHAPTER VI.

                     THE GREAT CONSPIRACY MATURING.

THE 6th of November, 1860, came and passed; on the 7th, the prevailing conviction that Lincoln
would be elected had become a certainty, and before the close of that day, the fact had been
heralded throughout the length and breadth of the Republic.  The excitement of the People was
unparalleled.  The Republicans of the North rejoiced that at last the great wrong of Slavery
was to be placed "where the People could rest in the belief that it was in the course of ultimate
extinction!"  The Douglas Democracy, naturally chagrined at the defeat of their great leader,
were filled with gloomy forebodings touching the future of their Country; and the Southern
Democracy, or at least a large portion of it, openly exulted that at last the long-wished-for
opportunity for a revolt of the Slave Power, and a separation of the Slave from the Free States,
was at hand.  Especially in South Carolina were the "Fire-eating" Southrons jubilant over the
event.

     ["South Carolina rejoiced over the election of Lincoln, with
     bonfires and processions."  p. 172, Arnold's "Life of Abraham
     Lincoln."

     "There was great joy in Charleston, and wherever 'Fire Eaters' most
     did congregate, on the morning of November 7th.  Men rushed to
     shake hands and congratulate each other on the glad tidings of
     Lincoln's election.  * * *  Men thronged the streets, talking,
     laughing, cheering, like mariners long becalmed on a hateful,
     treacherous sea, whom a sudden breeze had swiftly wafted within
     sight of their longed-for haven."  p. 332, vol. i., Greeley's
     American Conflict.]

Meanwhile any number of joint resolutions looking to the calling of a Secession Convention,
were introduced in the South Carolina Legislature, sitting at Columbia, having in view Secession
contingent upon the "cooperation" of the other Slave States, or looking to immediate and "unconditional"
Secession.

On the evening of November 7th, Edmund Ruffin of Virginia--a Secession fanatic who had come
from thence in hot haste--in response to a serenade, declared to the people of Columbia that:
"The defense of the South, he verily believed, was only to be secured through the lead of South
Carolina;" that, "old as he was, he had come here to join them in that lead;" and that "every
day delayed, was a day lost to the Cause." He acknowledged that Virginia was "not as ready
as South Carolina;" but declared that "The first drop of blood spilled on the soil of South
Carolina would bring Virginia, and every Southern State, with them."  He thought "it was perhaps
better that Virginia, and all other border States, remain quiescent for a time, to serve as
a guard against the North.  * * *  By remaining in the Union for a time, she would not only
prevent coercive legislation in Congress, but any attempt for our subjugation."

That same evening came news that, at Charleston, the Grand Jury of the United States District
Court had refused to make any presentments, because of the Presidential vote just cast, which,
they said, had "swept away the last hope for the permanence, for the stability, of the Federal
Government of these Sovereign States;" and that United States District Judge Magrath had resigned
his office, saying to the Grand Jury, as he did so: "In the political history of the United
States, an event has happened of ominous import to fifteen Slave-holding States.  The State
of which we are citizens has been always understood to have deliberately fixed its purpose
whenever that event should happen.  Feeling an assurance of what will be the action of the
State, I consider it my duty, without delay, to prepare to obey its wishes.  That preparation
is made by the resignation of the office I have held."

The news of the resignations of the Federal Collector and District Attorney at Charleston,
followed, with an intimation that that of the Sub-Treasurer would soon be forthcoming.  On
November 9th, a joint resolution calling an unconditional Secession Convention to meet at Columbia
December 17th, was passed by the Senate, and on the 12th of November went through the House;
and both of the United States Senators from South Carolina had now resigned their seats in
the United States Senate.

Besides all these and many other incitements to Secession was the fact that at Milledgeville,
Georgia, Governor Brown had, November 12th, addressed a Georgian Military Convention, affirming
"the right of Secession, and the duty of other Southern States to sustain South Carolina in
the step she was then taking," and declaring that he "would like to see Federal troops dare
attempt the coercion of a seceding Southern State!  For every Georgian who fell in a conflict
thus incited, the lives of two Federal Soldiers should expiate the outrage on State Sovereignty"--and
that the Convention aforesaid had most decisively given its voice for Secession.

It was about this time, however, that Alexander H.  Stephens vainly sought to stem the tide
of Secession in his own State, in a speech (November 14) before the Georgia Legislature, in
which he declared that Mr. Lincoln "can do nothing unless he is backed by power in Congress.
The House of Representatives is largely in the majority against him.  In the Senate he will
also be powerless.  There will be a majority of four against him."  He also cogently said:
"Many of us have sworn to support it (the Constitution).  Can we, therefore, for the mere election
of a man to the Presidency--and that too, in accordance with the prescribed forms of the Constitution--make
a point of resistance to the Government, and, without becoming the breakers of that sacred
instrument ourselves, withdraw ourselves from it?  Would we not be in the wrong?"

But the occasional words of wisdom that fell from the lips of the few far-seeing statesmen
of the South, were as chaff before the storm of Disunion raised by the turbulent Fire-eaters,
and were blown far from the South, where they might have done some good for the Union cause,
away up to the North, where they contributed to aid the success of the contemplated Treason
and Rebellion, by lulling many of the people there, into a false sense of security.  Unfortunately,
also, even the ablest of the Southern Union men were so tainted with the heretical doctrine
of States-Rights, which taught the "paramount allegiance" of the citizen to the State, that
their otherwise powerful appeals for the preservation of the Union were almost invariably handicapped
by the added protestation that in any event--and however they might deplore the necessity--they
would, if need be, go with their State, against their own convictions of duty to the National
Union.

Hence in this same speech we find that Mr. Stephens destroyed the whole effect of his weighty
and logical appeal against Secession from the Union, by adding to it, that, "Should Georgia
determine to go out of the Union I shall bow to the will of her people.  Their cause is my
cause, and their destiny is my destiny; and I trust this will be the ultimate course of all."--and
by further advising the calling of a Convention of the people to decide the matter; thus, in
advance, as it were, binding himself hand and foot, despite his previous Union utterances,
to do the fell bidding of the most rampant Disunionists.  And thus, in due time, it befell,
as we shall see, that this "saving clause" in his "Union speech," brought him at the end, not
to that posture of patriotic heroism to which he aspired when he adjured his Georgian auditors
to "let us be found to the last moment standing on the deck (of the Republic), with the Constitution
of the United States waving over our heads," but to that of an imprisoned traitor and defeated
rebel against the very Republic and Constitution which he had sworn to uphold and defend!

The action of the South Carolina Legislature in calling an Unconditional Secession Convention,
acted among the Southern States like a spark in a train of gunpowder.  Long accustomed to incendiary
resolutions of Pro-Slavery political platforms, as embodying the creed of Southern men; committed
by those declarations to the most extreme action when, in their judgment, the necessity should
arise; and worked up during the Presidential campaign by swarming Federal officials inspired
by the fanatical Secession leaders; the entire South only needed the spark from the treasonable
torch of South Carolina, to find itself ablaze, almost from one end to the other, with the
flames of revolt.

Governor after Governor, in State after State, issued proclamation after proclamation, calling
together their respective Legislatures, to consider the situation and whether their respective
States should join South Carolina in seceding from the Union.  Kentucky alone, of them all,
seemed for a time to keep cool, and look calmly and reasonably through the Southern ferment
to the horrors beyond.  In an address issued by Governor Magoffin of that State, to the people,
he said:

"To South Carolina and such other States as may wish to secede from the Union, I would say:
The geography of this Country will not admit of a division; the mouth and sources of the Mississippi
River cannot be separated without the horrors of Civil War.  We cannot sustain you in this
movement merely on account of the election of Mr. Lincoln.  Do not precipitate by premature
action into a revolution or Civil War, the consequences of which will be most frightful to
all of us.  It may yet be avoided.  There is still hope, faint though it be.  Kentucky is a
Border State, and has suffered more than all of you.  * * *  She has a right to claim that
her voice, and the voice of reason, and moderation and patriotism shall be heard and heeded
by you.  If you secede, your representatives will go out of Congress and leave us at the mercy
of a Black Republican Government.  Mr. Lincoln will have no check.  He can appoint his Cabinet,
and have it confirmed.  The Congress will then be Republican, and he will be able to pass such
laws as he may suggest. The Supreme Court will be powerless to protect us.  We implore you
to stand by us, and by our friends in the Free States; and let us all, the bold, the true,
and just men in the Free and Slave States, with a united front, stand by each other, by our
principles, by our rights, our equality, our honor, and by the Union under the Constitution.
I believe this is the only way to save it; and we can do it."

But this "still small voice" of conscience and of reason, heard like a whisper from the mouths
of Stephens in Georgia, and Magoffin in Kentucky, was drowned in the clamor and tumult of impassioned
harangues and addresses, and the drumming and tramp of the "minute men" of South Carolina,
and other military organizations, as they excitedly prepared throughout the South for the dread
conflict at arms which they recklessly invited, and savagely welcomed.

We have seen how President Andrew Jackson some thirty years before, had stamped out Nullification
and Disunion in South Carolina, with an iron heel.

But a weak and feeble old man--still suffering from the effects of the mysterious National
Hotel poisoning--was now in the Executive Chair at the White House.  Well-meaning, doubtless,
and a Union man at heart, his enfeebled intellect was unable to see, and hold firm to, the
only true course.  He lacked clearness of perception, decision of character, and nerve.  He
knew Secession was wrong, but allowed himself to be persuaded that he had no Constitutional
power to prevent it.  He had surrounded himself in the Cabinet with such unbending adherents
and tools of the Slave-Power, as Howell Cobb of Georgia, his Secretary of the Treasury, John
B. Floyd of Virginia, as Secretary of War, Jacob Thompson of Mississippi, as Secretary of the
Interior, and Isaac Toucy of Connecticut, as Secretary of the Navy, before whose malign influence
the councils of Lewis Cass of Michigan, the Secretary of State, and other Union men, in and
out of the Cabinet, were quite powerless.

When, therefore, the Congress met (December 3, 1860) and he transmitted to it his last Annual
Message, it was found that, instead of treating Secession from the Jacksonian standpoint, President
Buchanan feebly wailed over the threatened destruction of the Union, weakly apologized for
the contemplated Treason, garrulously scolded the North as being to blame for it, and, while
praying to God to "preserve the Constitution and the Union throughout all generations," wrung
his nerveless hands in despair over his own powerlessness--as he construed the Constitution--to
prevent Secession!  Before writing his pitifully imbecile Message, President Buchanan had secured
from his Attorney-General (Jeremiah S. Black of Pennsylvania) an opinion, in which the latter,
after touching upon certain cases in which he believed the President would be justified in
using force to sustain the Federal Laws, supposed the case of a State where all the Federal
Officers had resigned and where there were neither Federal Courts to issue, nor officers to
execute judicial process, and continued: "In that event, troops would certainly be out of place,
and their use wholly illegal.  If they are sent to aid the Courts and Marshals there must be
Courts and Marshals to be aided.  Without the exercise of these functions, which belong exclusively
to the civil service, the laws cannot be executed in any event, no matter what may be the physical
strength which the Government has at its command.  Under such circumstances, to send a military
force into any State, with orders to act against the people, would be simply making War upon
them." And, not satisfied with attempting to show as clearly as he seemed to know how, his
own inability under the laws to stamp out Treason, he proceeded to consider what he thought
Congress also could not do under the Constitution.  And further: "Congress possesses many means
of preserving it (the Union) by conciliation; but the sword was not placed in their hands to
preserve it by force."

Thus, in President Buchanan's judgment, while, in another part of his Message, he had declared
that no State had any right, Constitutional or otherwise, to Secede from that Union, which
was designed for all time --yet, if any State concluded thus wrongfully to Secede, there existed
no power in the Union, by the exercise of force, to preserve itself from instant dissolution!
How imbecile the reasoning, how impotent the conclusion, compared with that of President Jackson,
thirty years before, in his Proclamation against Nullification and Secession, wherein that
sturdy patriot declared to the South Carolinians.  that "compared to Disunion, all other evils
are light, because that brings with it an accumulation of all;" that "Disunion by armed force,
is Treason;" and that he was determined "to execute the Laws," and "to preserve the Union!"

President Buchanan's extraordinary Message--or so much of it as related to the perilous condition
of the Union--was referred, in the House of Representatives, to a Select Committee of Thirty-three,
comprising one member from each State, in which there was a very large preponderance of such
as favored Conciliation without dishonor.  But the debates in both Houses, in which the most
violent language was indulged by the Southern Fire-eaters, as well as other events, soon proved
that there was a settled purpose on the part of the Slave-Power and its adherents to resist
and spit upon all attempts at placation.

In the Senate also (December 5), a Select Committee of Thirteen was appointed, to consider
the impending dangers to the Union, comprising Senators Powell of Kentucky, Hunter of Virginia,
Crittenden of Kentucky, Seward of New York, Toombs of Georgia, Douglas of Illinois, Collamer
of Vermont, Davis of Mississippi, Wade of Ohio, Bigler of Pennsylvania, Rice of Minnesota,
Doolittle of Wisconsin, and Grimes of Iowa.  Their labors were alike without practical result,
owing to the irreconcilable attitude of the Southrons, who would accept nothing less than a
total repudiation by the Republicans of the very principles upon which the recent Presidential
contest had by them been fought and won.  Nor would they even accept such a repudiation unless
carried by vote of the majority of the Republicans.  The dose that they insisted upon the Republican
Party swallowing must not only be as noxious as possible, but must absolutely be mixed by that
Party itself, and in addition, that Party must also go down on its knees, and beg the privilege
of so mixing and swallowing the dose!  That was the impossible attitude into which, by their
bullying and threats, the Slave Power hoped to force the Republican Party--either that or "War."

Project after project in both Houses of Congress looking to Conciliation was introduced, referred,
reported, discussed, and voted on or not, as the case might be, in vain.  And in the meantime,
in New York, in Philadelphia, and elsewhere in the North, the timidity of Capital showed itself
in great Conciliation meetings, where speeches were applauded and resolutions adopted of the
most abject character, in behalf of "Peace, at any price," regardless of the sacrifice of honor
and principles and even decency.  In fact the Commercial North, with supplicating hands and
beseeching face, sank on its knees in a vain attempt to propitiate its furious creditor, the
South, by asking it not only to pull its nose, but to spit in its face, both of which it humbly
and even anxiously offered for the purpose!*

     [Thus, in Philadelphia, December 13, 1860, at a great meeting held
     at the call of the Mayor, in Independence Square, Mayor Henry led
     off the speaking--which was nearly all in the same line-by saying:
     "I tell you that if in any portion of our Confederacy, sentiments
     have been entertained and cherished which are inimical to the civil
     rights and social institutions of any other portion, those
     sentiments should be relinquished."  Another speaker, Judge George
     W. Woodward, sneeringly asked: "Whence came these excessive
     sensibilities that cannot bear a few slaves in a remote Territory
     until the white people establish a Constitution?"  Another, Mr.
     Charles E. Lex (a Republican), speaking of the Southern People,
     said: "What, then, can we say to them? what more than we have
     expressed in the resolutions we have offered?  If they are really
     aggrieved by any laws upon our Statute-books opposed to their
     rights--if upon examination any such are found to be in conflict
     with the Constitution of these United States--nay, further, if they
     but serve to irritate our brethren of the South, whether
     Constitutional or not, I, for one, have no objection that they
     should instantly be repealed."  Another said, "Let us repeal our
     obnoxious Personal Liberty bills * * *; let us receive our brother
     of the South, if he will come among us for a little time, attended
     by his servant, and permit him thus to come."  And the resolutions
     adopted were even still more abject in tone than the speeches.]

But the South at present was too busy in perfecting its long-cherished plans for the disruption
of the Union, to more than grimly smile at this evidence of what it chose to consider "a divided
sentiment" in the North.  While it weakened the North, it strengthened the South, and instead
of mollifying the Conspirators against the Union, it inspired them with fresh energy in their
fell purpose to destroy it.

The tone of the Republican press, too, while more dignified, was thoroughly conciliatory. 
The Albany Evening Journal,--[November 30, 1860]--the organ of Governor Seward, recognizing
that the South, blinded by passion, was in dead earnest, but also recognizing the existence
of "a Union sentiment there, worth cherishing," suggested "a Convention of the People, consisting
of delegates appointed by the States, in which it would not be found unprofitable for the North
and South, bringing their respective griefs, claims, and proposed reforms, to a common arbitrament,
to meet, discuss, and determine upon a future"--before a final appeal to arms.  So, too, Horace
Greeley, in the New York Tribune,--[November 9, 1860.]--after weakly conceding, on his own
part, the right of peaceable Secession, said: "But while we thus uphold the practical liberty,
if not the abstract right, of Secession, we must insist that the step be taken, if it ever
shall be, with the deliberation and gravity befitting so momentous an issue.  Let ample time
be given for reflection; let the subject be fully canvassed before the People; and let a popular
vote be taken in every case, before Secession is decreed."  Other leading papers of the Northern
press, took similar ground for free discussion and conciliatory action.

In the Senate, as well as the House of Representatives--as also was shown by the appointment,
heretofore mentioned, of Select Committees to consider the gravity of the situation, and suggest
a remedy--the same spirit of Conciliation and Concession, and desire for free and frank discussion,
was apparent among most of the Northern and Border-State members of those Bodies.  But these
were only met by sneers and threats on the part of the Fire-eating Secession members of the
South.  In the Senate, Senator Clingman of North Carolina, sneeringly said: "They want to get
up a free debate, as the Senator (Mr. Seward) from New York expressed it, in one of his speeches.
But a Senator from Texas told me the other day that a great many of these free debaters were
hanging from the trees of that country;" and Senator Iverson, of Georgia, said: "Gentlemen
speak of Concession, of the repeal of the Personal Liberty bills.  Repeal them all to-morrow,
and you cannot stop this revolution." After declaring his belief that "Before the 4th of March,
five States will have declared their independence" and that "three other States will follow
as soon as the action of the people can be had;" he proceeded to allude to the refusal of Governor
Houston of Texas to call together the Texas Legislature for action in accord with the Secession
sentiment, and declared that "if he will not yield to that public sentiment, some Texan Brutus
will arise to rid his country of this hoary-headed incubus that stands between the people and
their sovereign will!"  Then, sneering at the presumed cowardice of the North, he continued:
"Men talk about their eighteen millions (of Northern population); but we hear a few days afterwards
of these same men being switched in the face, and they tremble like sheep-stealing dogs!  There
will be no War.  The North, governed by such far-seeing Statesmen as the Senator (Mr. Seward)
from New York, will see the futility of this.  In less than twelve months, a Southern Confederacy
will be formed; and it will be the most successful Government on Earth.  The Southern States,
thus banded together, will be able to resist any force in the World.  We do not expect War;
but we will be prepared for it--and we are not a feeble race of Mexicans either."

On the other hand, there were Republicans in that Body who sturdily met the bluster of the
Southern Fire-eaters with frank and courageous words expressing their full convictions on the
situation and their belief that Concessions could not be made and that Compromises were mere
waste paper.  Thus, Senator Ben Wade of Ohio, among the bravest and manliest of them all, in
a speech in the Senate, December 17, the very day on which the South Carolina Secession Convention
was to assemble, said to the Fire-eaters: "I tell you frankly that we did lay down the principle
in our platform, that we would prohibit, if we had the power, Slavery from invading another
inch of the Free Soil of this Government.  I stand to that principle to-day.  I have argued
it to half a million of people, and they stand by it; they have commissioned me to stand by
it; and, so help me God, I will! * * *  On the other hand, our platform repudiates the idea
that we have any right, or harbor any ultimate intention to invade or interfere with your institutions
in your own States.  * * * It is not, by your own confessions, that Mr. Lincoln is expected
to commit any overt act by which you may be injured.  You will not even wait for any, you say;
but, by anticipating that the Government may do you an injury, you will put an end to it--which
means, simply and squarely, that you intend to rule or ruin this Government.  * * *  As to
Compromises, I supposed that we had agreed that the Day of Compromises was at an end.  The
most solemn we have made have been violated, and are no more.  * * *  We beat you on the plainest
and most palpable issue ever presented to the American people, and one which every man understood;
and now, when we come to the Capital, we tell you that our candidates must and shall be inaugurated--must
and shall administer this Government precisely as the Constitution prescribes.  * * *  I tell
you that, with that verdict of the people in my pocket, and standing on the platform on which
these candidates were elected, I would suffer anything before I would Compromise in any way."

In the House of Representatives, on December 10, 1860, a number of propositions looking to
a peaceful settlement of the threatened danger, were offered and referred to the Select Committee
of Thirty-three.  On the following Monday, December 17, by 154 yeas to 14 nays, the House adopted
a resolution, offered by Mr. Adrian of New Jersey, in these words:

"Resolved, That we deprecate the spirit of disobedience to the Constitution, wherever manifested;
and that we earnestly recommend the repeal of all Statutes by the State Legislatures in conflict
with, and in violation of, that sacred instrument, and the laws of Congress passed in pursuance
thereof."

     [This resolution, before adoption, was modified by declaring it to
     be the duty of all citizens, whether "good and law abiding" or not,
     to yield obedience to the Constitution, as will be seen by
     referring to the proceedings in the Globe of that date, where the
     following appears:

     "Mr. LOGAN.  I hope there will be no objection on this side of the
     House to the introduction of the [Lovejoy] resolution.  I can see
     no difference myself, between this resolution and the one
     [Adrian's] just passed, except in regard to verbiage.  I can find
     but one objection to the resolution, and that is in the use of the
     words declaring that all' law abiding' citizens should obey the
     Constitution.  I think that all men should do so.

     "Mr. LOVEJOY.  I accept the amendment suggested by my Colleague.

     "Mr. LOGAN.  It certainly should include members of Congress; but
     if it is allowed to remain all 'good and law abiding' citizens, I
     do not think it will include them.

                              CHAPTER VII.

                           SECESSION ARMING.

While Congress was encouraging devotion to the Union, and its Committees striving for some
mode by which the impending perils might be averted without a wholesale surrender of all just
principles, the South Carolina Convention met (December 17, 1860) at Columbia, and after listening
to inflammatory addresses by commissioners from the States of Alabama and Mississippi, urging
immediate and unconditional Secession, unanimously and with "tremendous cheering" adopted a
resolution: "That it is the opinion of the Convention that the State of South Carolina should
forthwith Secede from the Federal Union, known as the United States of America,"--and then
adjourned to meet at Charleston, South Carolina.

The next day, and following days, it met there, at "Secession Hall," listening to stimulating
addresses, while a committee of seven worked upon the Ordinance of Secession.  Among the statements
made by orators, were several clear admissions that the rebellious Conspiracy had existed for
very many years, and that Mr. Lincoln's election was simply the long-sought-for pretext for
Rebellion.  Mr. Parker said: "It is no spasmodic effort that has come suddenly upon us; it
has been gradually culminating for a long period of thirty years.  At last it has come to that
point where we may say, the matter is entirely right."  Mr. Inglis said: "Most of us have had
this matter under consideration for the last twenty years; and I presume that we have by this
time arrived at a decision upon the subject."  Mr. Keitt said: "I have been engaged in this
movement ever since I entered political life; * * *  we have carried the body of this Union
to its last resting place, and now we will drop the flag over its grave."  Mr. Gregg said:
"If we undertake to set forth all the causes, do we not dishonor the memory of all the statesmen
of South Carolina, now departed, who commenced forty years ago a war against the tariff and
against internal improvement, saying nothing of the United States Bank, and other measures
which may now be regarded as obsolete."

On the 20th of December, 1860--the fourth day of the sittings--the Ordinance of Secession was
reported by the Committee, and was at once unanimously passed, as also was a resolution that
"the passage of the Ordinance be proclaimed by the firing of artillery and ringing of the bells
of the city, and such other demonstrations as the people may deem appropriate on the passage
of the great Act of Deliverance and Liberty;" after which the Convention jubilantly adjourned
to meet, and ratify, that evening.  At the evening session of this memorable Convention, the
Governor and Legislature attending, the famous Ordinance was read as engrossed, signed by all
the delegates, and, after announcement by the President that "the State of South Carolina is
now and henceforth a Free and Independent Commonwealth;" amid tremendous cheering, the Convention
adjourned.

Thus, and in these words, was joyously adopted and ratified, that solemn Act of Separation
which was doomed to draw in its fateful train so many other Southern States, in the end only
to be blotted out with the blood of hundreds of thousands of their own brave sons, and their
equally courageous Northern brothers.

State after State followed South Carolina in the mad course of Secession from the Union.  Mississippi
passed a Secession Ordinance, January 9, 1861.  Florida followed, January 10th; Alabama, January
11th; Georgia, January 18th; Louisiana, January 26th; and Texas, February 1st; Arkansas, North
Carolina, and Virginia held back until a later period; while Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri,
Maryland, and Delaware, abstained altogether from taking the fatal step, despite all attempts
to bring them to it.

In the meantime, however, South Carolina had put on all the dignity of a Sovereign and Independent
State.  Her Governor had a "cabinet" comprising Secretaries of State, War, Treasury, the Interior,
and a Postmaster General. She had appointed Commissioners, to proceed to the other Slave-holding
States, through whom a Southern Congress was proposed, to meet at Montgomery, Alabama; and
had appointed seven delegates to meet the delegates from such other States in that proposed
Southern Congress.  On the 21st of December, 1860, three Commissioners (Messrs.  Barnwell,
Adams, and Orr) were also appointed to proceed to Washington, and treat for the cession by
the United States to South Carolina, of all Federal property within the limits of the latter.
On the 24th, Governor Pickens issued a Proclamation announcing the adoption of the Ordinance
of Secession, declaring "that the State of South Carolina is, as she has a right to be, a separate
sovereign, free and independent State, and as such, has a right to levy war, conclude peace,
negotiate treaties, leagues or covenants, and to do all acts whatsoever that rightfully appertain
to a free and independent State;" the which proclamation was announced as "Done in the eighty-fifth
year of the Sovereignty and Independence of South Carolina."  On the same day (the Senators
from that State in the United States Senate having long since, as we have seen, withdrawn from
that body) the Representatives of South Carolina in the United States House of Representatives
withdrew.

Serious dissensions in the Cabinet of President Buchanan, were now rapidly disintegrating the
"official family" of the President.  Lewis Cass, the Secretary of State, disgusted with the
President's cowardice and weakness, and declining to be held responsible for Mr. Buchanan's
promise not to reinforce the garrisons of the National Forts, under Major Anderson, in Charleston
harbor, retired from the Cabinet December 12th--Howell Cobb having already, "because his duty
to Georgia required it," resigned the Secretaryship of the Treasury, and left it bankrupt and
the credit of the Nation almost utterly destroyed.

On the 26th of December, Major Anderson evacuated Fort Moultrie, removing all his troops and
munitions of war to Fort Sumter--whereupon a cry went up from Charleston that this was in violation
of the President's promise to take no step looking to hostilities, provided the Secessionists
committed no overt act of Rebellion, up to the close of his fast expiring Administration. 
On the 29th, John B. Floyd, Secretary of War, having failed to secure the consent of the Administration
to an entire withdrawal of the Federal garrison from the harbor of Charleston, also resigned,
and the next day--he having in the meantime escaped in safety to Virginia--was indicted by
the Grand Jury at Washington, for malfeasance and conspiracy to defraud the Government in the
theft of $870,000 of Indian Trust Bonds from the Interior Department, and the substitution
therefor of Floyd's acceptances of worthless army-transportation drafts on the Treasury Department.

Jacob Thompson, Secretary of the Interior, also resigned, January 8th, 1861, on the pretext
that "additional troops, he had heard, have been ordered to Charleston" in the "Star of the
West."--[McPherson's History of the Rebellion, p. 28.]

Several changes were thus necessitated in Mr. Buchanan's cabinet, by these and other resignations,
so that by the 18th of January, 1861, Jeremiah S. Black was Secretary of State; General John
A. Dix, Secretary of the Treasury; Joseph Holt, Secretary of War; Edwin M. Stanton, Attorney
General; and Horatio King, Postmaster General.  But before leaving the Cabinet, the conspiring
Southern members of it, and their friends, had managed to hamstring the National Government,
by scattering the Navy in other quarters of the World; by sending the few troops of the United
States to remote points; by robbing the arsenals in the Northern States of arms and munitions
of war, so as to abundantly supply the Southern States at the critical moment; by bankrupting
the Treasury and shattering the public credit of the Nation; and by other means no less nefarious.
Thus swindled, betrayed, and ruined, by its degenerate and perfidious sons, the imbecile Administration
stood with dejected mien and folded hands helplessly awaiting the coming catastrophe.

On December 28th, 1860, the three Commissioners of South Carolina having reached Washington,
addressed to the President a communication, in which--after reciting their powers and duties,
under the Ordinance of Secession, and stating that they had hoped to have been ready to proceed
to negotiate amicably and without "hostile collision," but that "the events--[The removal,
to Fort Sumter, of Major Anderson's command, and what followed.]--of the last twenty-four hours
render such an assurance impossible"--they declared that the troops must be withdrawn from
Charleston harbor, as "they are a standing menace which render negotiation impossible," threatening
speedily to bring the questions involved, to "a bloody issue."  To this reply of the President,
the Commissioners made rejoinder on the 1st of January, 1861; but the President "declined to
receive" the communication.

From this time on, until the end of President Buchanan's term of office, and the inauguration
of Mr. Lincoln as President, March 4th, 1861, events crowded each other so hurriedly, that
the flames of Rebellion in the South were continually fanned, while the public mind in the
North was staggered and bewildered, by them.

On January 2nd, prior to the Secession of Georgia, Forts Pulaski and Jackson, commanding Savannah,
and the Federal Arsenal at Augusta, Georgia, with two 12 pound howitzers, two cannon, 22,000
muskets and rifles, and ammunition in quantity, were seized by Rebel militia.  About the same
date, although North Carolina had not seceded, her Governor (Ellis) seized the Federal Arsenal
at Fayetteville, Fort Macon, and other fortifications in that State, "to preserve them" from
mob-seizure.

January 4th, anticipating Secession, Alabama State troops seized Fort Morgan, with 5,000 shot
and shell, and Mount Vernon Arsenal at Mobile, with 2,000 stand of arms, 150, 000 pounds of
powder, some pieces of cannon, and a large quantity of other munitions of war.  The United
States Revenue cutter, "Lewis Cass," was also surrendered to Alabama.

On the 5th, the Federal steamer "Star of the West," with reinforcements and supplies for Fort
Sumter, left New York in the night--and Secretary Jacob Thompson notified the South Carolina
Rebels of the fact.

On the 9th, the "Star of the West" appeared off Charleston bar, and while steaming toward Fort
Sumter, was fired upon by Rebel batteries at Fort Moultrie and Morris Island, and struck by
a shot, whereupon she returned to New York without accomplishing her mission.  That day the
State of Mississippi seceded from the Union.

On the 10th, the Federal storeship "Texas," with Federal guns and stores, was seized by Texans.
On the same day Florida seceded.

On the 11th, Forts Jackson and St. Philip, commanding the mouth of the Mississippi River, and
Fort Pike, dominating Lake Pontchartrain, were seized by Louisiana troops; also the Federal
Arsenal at Baton Rouge, with 50,000 small arms, 4 howitzers, 20 heavy pieces of ordnance, 2
batteries, 300 barrels of powder, and other stores.  The State of Alabama also seceded the
same day.

On the 12th--Fort Marion, the coast surveying schooner "Dana," the Arsenal at St. Augustine,
and that on the Chattahoochee, with 500,000 musket cartridges, 300,000 rifle cartridges and
50,000 pounds of powder, having previously been seized--Forts Barrancas and McRae, and the
Navy Yard at Pensacola, were taken by Rebel troops of Florida, Alabama and Mississippi.  On
the same day, Colonel Hayne, of South Carolina, arrived at Washington as Agent or Commissioner
to the National Government from Governor Pickens of that State.

On the 14th, the South Carolina Legislature resolved "that any attempt by the Federal Government
to reinforce Fort Sumter will be regarded as an act of open hostility, and a Declaration of War."

On the 16th, Colonel Hayne, of South Carolina, developed his mission, which was to demand of
the President the surrender of Fort Sumter to the South Carolina authorities--a demand that
had already been made upon, and refused by, Major Anderson.

The correspondence concerning this demand, between Colonel Hayne and ten Southern United States
Senators;--[Senators Wigfall, Hemphill, Yulee, Mallory, Jeff.  Davis, C. C. Clay, Fitzgerald,
Iverson, Slidell, and Benjamin.]--the reply of the President, by Secretary Holt, to those Senators;
Governor Pickens's review of the same; and the final demand; consumed the balance of the month
of January; and ended, February 6th, in a further reply, through the Secretary of War, from
the President, asserting the title of the United States to that Fort, and declining the demand,
as "he has no Constitutional power to cede or surrender it." Secretary Holt's letter concluded
by saying: "If, with all the multiplied proofs which exist of the President's anxiety for Peace,
and of the earnestness with which he has pursued it, the authorities of that State shall assault
Fort Sumter, and peril the lives of the handful of brave and loyal men shut up within its walls,
and thus plunge our Common Country into the horrors of Civil War, then upon them and those
they represent, must rest the responsibility."

But to return from this momentary diversion: On the 18th of January, Georgia seceded; and on
the 20th, the Federal Fort at Ship Island, Mississippi, and the United States Hospital on the
Mississippi River were seized by Mississippi troops.

On the 26th, Louisiana seceded.  On the 28th, Louisiana troops seized all the quartermaster's
and commissary stores held by Federal officials; and the United States Revenue cutter "McClelland"
surrendered to the Rebels.

On February 1st, the Louisiana Rebels seized the National Mint and Custom House at New Orleans,
with $599,303 in gold and silver.  On the same day the State of Texas seceded.

On February 8th, the National Arsenal at Little Rock, Arkansas, with 9,000 small arms, 40 cannon,
and quantities of ammunition, was seized; and the same day the Governor of Georgia ordered
the National Collector of the Port of Savannah to retain all collections and make no further
payments to the United States Government.*

     [It was during this eventful month that, certain United States
     troops having assembled at the National Capital, and the House of
     Representatives having asked the reason therefor, reply was made by
     the Secretary of War as follows:

     "WAR DEPARTMENT, February 18, 1861.
     The reasons which led to their being assembled here will now be
     briefly stated.

     "I shall make no comment upon the origin of the Revolution which,
     for the last three months, has been in progress in several of the
     Southern States, nor shall I enumerate the causes which have
     hastened its advancement or exasperated its temper.  The scope of
     the questions submitted by the House will be sufficiently met by
     dealing with the facts as they exist, irrespective of the cause
     from which they have proceeded.  That Revolution has been
     distinguished by a boldness and completeness of success rarely
     equaled in the history of Civil Commotions.  Its overthrow of the
     Federal authority has not only been sudden and wide-spread, but has
     been marked by excesses which have alarmed all and been sources of
     profound humiliation to a large portion of the American People.
     Its history is a history of surprises and treacheries and ruthless
     spoliations.  The Forts of the United States have been captured and
     garrisoned, and hostile flags unfurled upon their ramparts.  Its
     arsenals have been seized, and the vast amount of public arms they
     contained appropriated to the use of the captors; while more than
     half a million dollars, found in the Mint at New Orleans, has been
     unscrupulously applied to replenish the coffers of Louisiana.
     Officers in command of revenue cutters of the United States have
     been prevailed on to violate their trusts and surrender the
     property in their charge; and instead of being branded for their
     crimes, they, and the vessels they betrayed, have been cordially
     received into the service of the Seceded States.  These movements
     were attended by yet more discouraging indications of immorality.
     It was generally believed that this Revolution was guided and urged
     on by men occupying the highest positions in the public service,
     and who, with the responsibilities of an oath to support the
     Constitution still resting upon their consciences, did not hesitate
     secretly to plan and openly to labor for, the dismemberment of the
     Republic whose honors they enjoyed and upon whose Treasury they
     were living.  As examples of evil are always more potent than those
     of good, this spectacle of demoralization on the part of States and
     statesmen could not fail to produce the most deplorable
     consequences.  The discontented and the disloyal everywhere took
     courage.  In other States, adjacent to and supposed to sympathize
     in sense of political wrong with those referred to, Revolutionary
     schemes were set on foot, and Forts and arms of the United States
     seized.  The unchecked prevalence of the Revolution, and the
     intoxication which its triumphs inspired, naturally suggested
     wilder and yet more desperate enterprises than the conquest of
     ungarrisoned Forts, or the plunder of an unguarded Mint.  At what
     time the armed occupation of Washington City became a part of the
     Revolutionary Programme, is not certainly known.  More than six
     weeks ago, the impression had already extensively obtained that a
     Conspiracy for the accomplishment of this guilty purpose was in
     process of formation, if not fully matured.  The earnest endeavors
     made by men known to be devoted to the Revolution, to hurry
     Virginia and Maryland out of the Union, were regarded as
     preparatory steps for the subjugation of Washington.  This plan was
     in entire harmony with the aim and spirit of those seeking the
     subversion of the Government, since no more fatal blow at its
     existence could be struck than the permanent and hostile possession
     of the seat of its power.  It was in harmony, too, with the avowed
     designs of the Revolutionists, which looked to the formation of a
     Confederacy of all the Slave States, and necessarily to the
     Conquest of the Capital within their limits.  It seemed not very
     indistinctly prefigured in a Proclamation made upon the floor of
     the Senate, without qualification, if not exultingly, that the
     Union was already dissolved--a Proclamation which, however
     intended, was certainly calculated to invite, on the part of men of
     desperate fortunes or of Revolutionary States, a raid upon the
     Capital.  In view of the violence and turbulent disorders already
     exhibited in the South, the public mind could not reject such a
     scheme as at all improbable.  That a belief in its existence was
     entertained by multitudes, there can be no doubt, and this belief I
     fully shared.  My conviction rested not only on the facts already
     alluded to, but upon information, some of which was of a most
     conclusive character, that reached the Government from many parts
     of the Country, not merely expressing the prevalence of the opinion
     that such an organization had been formed, but also often
     furnishing the plausible grounds on which the opinion was based.
     Superadded to these proofs, were the oft-repeated declarations of
     men in high political positions here, and who were known to have
     intimate affiliations with the Revolution--if indeed they did not
     hold its reins in their hands--to the effect that Mr. Lincoln would
     not, or should not be inaugurated at Washington.  Such
     declarations, from such men, could not be treated as empty bluster.
     They were the solemn utterances of those who well understood the
     import of their words, and who, in the exultation of the temporary
     victories gained over their Country's flag in the South, felt
     assured that events would soon give them the power to verify their
     predictions.  Simultaneously with these prophetic warnings, a
     Southern journal of large circulation and influence, and which is
     published near the city of Washington, advocated its seizure as a
     possible political necessity.

     "The nature and power of the testimony thus accumulated may be best
     estimated by the effect produced upon the popular mind.
     Apprehensions for the safety of the Capital were communicated from
     points near and remote, by men unquestionably reliable and loyal.
     The resident population became disquieted, and the repose of many
     families in the city was known to be disturbed by painful
     anxieties.  Members of Congress, too-men of calm and comprehensive
     views, and of undoubted fidelity to their Country--frankly
     expressed their solicitude to the President and to this Department,
     and formally insisted that the defenses of the Capital should be
     strengthened.  With such warnings, it could not be forgotten that,
     had the late Secretary of War heeded the anonymous letter which he
     received, the tragedy at Harper's Ferry would have been avoided;
     nor could I fail to remember that, had the early admonitions which
     reached here in regard to the designs of lawless men upon the Forts
     of Charleston Harbor been acted on by sending forward adequate
     reinforcements before the Revolution began, the disastrous
     political complications that ensued might not have occurred.

     "Impressed by these circumstances and considerations, I earnestly
     besought you to allow the concentration, at this city, of a
     sufficient military force to preserve the public peace from all the
     dangers that seemed to threaten it.  An open manifestation, on the
     part of the Administration, of a determination, as well as of the
     ability, to maintain the laws, would, I was convinced, prove the
     surest, as also the most pacific, means of baffling and dissolving
     any Conspiracy that might have been organized.  It was believed too
     that the highest and most solemn responsibility resting upon a
     President withdrawing from the Government, was to secure to his
     successor a peaceful Inauguration.  So deeply, in my judgment, did
     this duty concern the whole Country and the fair fame of our
     Institutions, that, to guarantee its faithful discharge, I was
     persuaded no preparation could be too determined or too complete.
     The presence of the troops alluded to in the resolution is the
     result of the conclusion arrived at by yourself and Cabinet, on the
     proposition submitted to you by this Department.  Already this
     display of life and loyalty on the part of your Administration, has
     produced the happiest effects.  Public confidence has been
     restored, and the feverish apprehension which it was so mortifying
     to contemplate has been banished.  Whatever may have been the
     machinations of deluded, lawless men, the execution of their
     purpose has been suspended, if not altogether abandoned in view of
     preparations which announce more impressively than words that this
     Administration is alike able and resolved to transfer in peace, to
     the President elect, the authority that, under the Constitution,
     belongs to him.  To those, if such there be, who desire the
     destruction of the Republic, the presence of these troops is
     necessarily offensive; but those who sincerely love our
     Institutions cannot fail to rejoice that, by this timely precaution
     they have possibly escaped the deep dishonor which they must have
     suffered had the Capital, like the Forts and Arsenals of the South,
     fallen into the hands of the Revolutionists, who have found this
     great Government weak only because, in the exhaustless beneficence
     of its spirit, it has refused to strike, even in its own defense,
     lest it should wound the aggressor.

     "I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                              "J. HOLT.
                         "Secretary of War,

     "THE PRESIDENT."]

On February 20th, Forts Chadbourne and Belknap were seized by the Texan Rebels; and on the
22nd, the Federal General Twiggs basely surrendered to them all the fortifications under his
control, his little Army, and all the Government stores in his possession--comprising $55,000
in specie, 35,000 stand of arms, 26 pieces of mounted artillery, 44 dismounted guns, and ammunition,
horses, wagons, forage, etc., valued at nearly $2,000,000.

On the 2nd of March, the Texan Rebels seized the United States Revenue cutter "Dodge" at Galveston;
and on the 6th, Fort Brown was surrendered to them.

Thus, with surrender after surrender, and seizure after seizure, of its revenue vessels and
fortifications and troops and arms and munitions of war in the Southern States--with Fort Sumter
invested and at the mercy of any attack, and Fortress Monroe alone of all the National strongholds
yet safe--with State after State seceding--what wonder that, while these events gave all encouragement
to the Southern Rebels, the Patriots of the North stood aghast at the appalling spectacle of
a crumbling and dissolving Union!

During this period of National peril, the debates in both branches of Congress upon propositions
for adjustment of the unfortunate differences between the Southern Seceders and the Union,
as has been already hinted, contributed still further to agitate the public mind.  Speech after
speech by the ablest and most brilliant Americans in public life, for or against such propositions,
and discussing the rightfulness or wrongfulness of Secession, were made in Congress day after
day, and, by means of the telegraph and the press, alternately swayed the Northern heart with
feelings of hope, chagrin, elation or despair.

The Great Debate was opened in the Senate on almost the very first day of its session (December
4th, 1860), by Mr. Clingman, of North Carolina, who, referring to South Carolina, declared
that "Instead of being precipitate, she and the whole South have been wonderfully patient."
A portion of that speech is interesting even at this time, as showing how certain phases of
the Tariff and Internal Improvement questions entered into the consideration of some of the
Southern Secession leaders.  Said he, "I know there are intimations that suffering will fall
upon us of the South, if we secede.  My people are not terrified by any such considerations.
* * *  They have no fears of the future if driven to rely on themselves.  The Southern States
have more territory than all the Colonies had when they Seceded from Great Britain, and a better
territory.  Taking its position, climate, and fertility into consideration, there is not upon
Earth a body of territory superior to it.  * * *  The Southern States have, too, at this day,
four times the population the Colonies had when they Seceded from Great Britain.  Their exports
to the North and to Foreign Countries were, last year, more than $300,000,000; and a duty of
ten per cent. upon the same amount of imports would give $30,000,000 of revenue--twice as much
as General Jackson's administration spent in its first year.  Everybody can see, too, how the
bringing in of $300,000,000 of imports into Southern ports would enliven business in our seaboard
towns.  I have seen with some satisfaction, also, Mr. President, that the war made upon us
has benefitted certain branches of industry in my State.  There are manufacturing establishments
in North Carolina, the proprietors of which tell me that they are making fifty per cent. annually
on their whole capital, and yet cannot supply one tenth of the demand for their production.
The result of only ten per cent. duties in excluding products from abroad, would give life
and impetus to mechanical and manufacturing industry, throughout the entire South.  Our people
understand these things, and they are not afraid of results, if forced to declare Independence.
Indeed I do not see why Northern Republicans should wish to continue a connection with us upon
any terms.  * * * They want High Tariff likewise.  They may put on five hundred per cent. if
they choose, upon their own imports, and nobody on our side will complain.  They may spend
all the money they raise on railroads, or opening harbors, or anything on earth they desire,
without interference from us; and it does seem to me that if they are sincere in their views
they ought to welcome a separation."

From the very commencement of this long three-months debate, it was the policy of the Southern
leaders to make it appear that the Southern States were in an attitude of injured innocence
and defensiveness against Northern aggression.  Hence, it was that, as early as December 5th,
on the floor of the Senate, through Mr. Brown, of Mississippi, they declared: "All we ask is
to be allowed to depart in Peace.  Submit we will not; and if, because we will not submit to
your domination, you choose to make War upon us, let God defend the Right!"

At the same time it was esteemed necessary to try and frighten the North into acquiescence
with this demand to be "let alone."  Hence such utterances as those of Clingman and Iverson,
to which reference has already been made, and the especially defiant close of the latter's
speech, when--replying to the temperate but firm Union utterances of Mr. Hale--the Georgia
Senator said: "Sir, I do not believe there will be any War; but if War is to come, let it come;
we will meet the Senator from New Hampshire and all the myrmidons of Abolitionism and Black
Republicanism everywhere upon our own soil; and, in the language of a distinguished member
from Ohio in relation to the Mexican War, we will 'welcome you with bloody hands to hospitable
graves.'"

On the other hand, in order to encourage the revolting States to the speedy commission of overt
acts of Rebellion and violence, that would precipitate War without a peradventure, utterances
fell from Southern lips, in the National Senate Chamber, like those of Mr. Wigfall, when he
said, during this first day of the debate: "Frederick the Great, on one occasion, when he had
trumped up an old title to some of the adjacent territory, quietly put himself in possession
and then offered to treat. Were I a South Carolinian, as I am a Texan, and I knew that my State
was going out of the Union, and that this Government would attempt to use force, I would, at
the first moment that that fact became manifest, seize upon the Forts and the arms and the
munitions of war, and raise the cry 'To your tents, O Israel, and to the God of battles be
this issue!"

And, as we have already seen, the Rebels of the South were not slow in following the baleful
advice to the letter.  But it was not many days after this utterance when the Conspirators
against the Union evidently began to fear that the ground for Rebellion, upon which they had
planted themselves, would be taken from under their feet by the impulse of Compromise and Concession
which stirred so strongly the fraternal spirit of the North.  That peaceful impulse must be
checked and exasperated by sneers and impossible demands.  Hence, on December 12th we find
one of the most active and favorite mouthpieces of Treason, Mr. Wigfall, putting forth such
demands, in his most offensive manner.

Said he: "If the two Senators from New York (Seward and King), the Senator from Ohio (Wade),
the two Senators from Illinois (Douglas and Trumbull), the Senator from New Hampshire (Hale),
the Senator from Maine, and others who are regarded as representative men, who have denied
that by the Constitution of the United States, Slaves are recognized as Property; who have
urged and advocated those acts which we regard as aggressive on the part of the People--if
they will rise here, and say in their places, that they desire to propose amendments to the
Constitution, and beg that we will vote for them; that they will, in good faith, go to their
respective constituencies and urge the ratification; that they believe, if these Gulf States
will suspend their action, that those amendments will be ratified and carried out in good faith;
that they will cease preaching this 'irrepressible conflict'; and if, in those amendments,
it is declared that Slaves are Property, that they shall be delivered up upon demand; and that
they will assure us that Abolition societies shall be abolished; that Abolition speeches shall
no longer be made; that we shall have peace and quiet; that we shall not be called cut-throats
and pirates and murderers; that our women shall not be slandered--these things being said in
good faith, the Senators begging that we will stay our hand until an honest effort can be made,
I believe that there is a prospect of giving them a fair consideration!"

Small wonder is it, that this labored and ridiculous piece of impertinence was received with
ironical laughter on the Republican side of the Senate Chamber.  And it was in reference to
these threats, and these preposterous demands--including the suppression of the right of Free
Discussion and Liberty of the Press--that, in the same chamber (January 7, 1861) the gallant
and eloquent Baker said:

"Your Fathers had fought for that right, and more than that, they had declared that the violation
of that right was one of the great causes which impelled them to the Separation.  * * *  Sir,
the Liberty of the Press is the highest safeguard to all Free Government.  Ours could not exist
without it.  It is with us, nay, with all men, like a great exulting and abounding river, It
is fed by the dews of Heaven, which distil their sweetest drops to form it.  It gushes from
the rill, as it breaks from the deep caverns of the Earth.  It is fed by a thousand affluents,
that dash from the mountaintop to separate again into a thousand bounteous and irrigating rills
around.  On its broad bosom it bears a thousand barks.  There, Genius spreads its purpling
sail. There, Poetry dips its silver oar.  There, Art, Invention, Discovery, Science, Morality,
Religion, may safely and securely float.  It wanders through every land.  It is a genial, cordial
source of thought and inspiration, wherever it touches, whatever it surrounds.  Sir, upon its
borders, there grows every flower of Grace and every fruit of Truth.  I am not here to deny
that that Stream sometimes becomes a dangerous Torrent, and destroys towns and cities upon
its bank; but I am here to say that without it, Civilization, Humanity, Government, all that
makes Society itself, would disappear, and the World would return to its ancient Barbarism.

"Sir, if that were to be possible, or so thought for a moment, the fine conception of the great
Poet would be realized.  If that were to be possible, though but for a moment, Civilization
itself would roll the wheels of its car backward for two thousand years.  Sir, if that were
so, it would be true that:

          'As one by one in dread Medea's train,
          Star after Star fades off th' ethereal plain,
          Thus at her fell approach and secret might,
          Art after art goes out, and all is night.
          Philosophy, that leaned on Heaven before,
          Sinks to her second cause, and is no more.  * * *  I will never yield to the idea that the great
Government of this Country shall protect Slavery in any Territory now
ours, or hereafter to be acquired.  It is, in my opinion, a great
principle of Free Government, not, to be surrendered.

"It is in my judgment, the object of the great battle which we have fought, and which we have
won.  It is, in my poor opinion, the point upon which there is concord and agreement between
the great masses of the North, who may agree in no other political opinion whatever.  Be he
Republican, or Democrat, or Douglas man, or Lincoln man; be he from the North, or the West,
from Oregon, or from Maine, in my judgment nine-tenths of the entire population of the North
and West are devoted, in the very depths of their hearts, to the great Constitutional idea
that Freedom is the rule, that Slavery is the exception, that it ought not to be extended by
virtue of the powers of the Government of the United States; and, come weal, come woe, it never
shall be.

"But, sir, I add one other thing.  When you talk to me about Compromise or Concession, I am
not sure that I always understand you.  Do you mean that I am to give up my convictions of
right?  Armies cannot compel that in the breast of a Free People.  Do you mean that I am to
concede the benefits of the political struggle through which we have passed, considered politically,
only?  You are too just and too generous to ask that.  Do you mean that we are to deny the
great principle upon which our political action has been based?  You know we cannot.  But if
you mean by Compromise and Concession to ask us to see whether we have not been hasty, angry,
passionate, excited, and in many respects violated your feelings, your character, your right
of property, we will look; and, as I said yesterday, if we have, we will undo it.  Allow me
to say again, if there be any lawyer or any Court that will advise us that our laws are unconstitutional,
we will repeal them.

"Now as to territory.  I will not yield one inch to Secession; but there are things that I
will yield, and there are things to which I will yield.  It is somewhere told that when Harold
of England received a messenger from a brother with whom he was at variance, to inquire on
what terms reconciliation and peace could be effected between brothers, he replied in a gallant
and generous spirit in a few words, 'the, terms I offer are the affection of a brother; and
the Earldom of Northumberland.'  And, said the Envoy, as he marched up the Hall amid the warriors
that graced the state of the King, 'if Tosti, thy brother, agree to this, what terms will you
allow to his ally and friend, Hadrada, the giant.'  'We will allow,' said Harold, 'to Hadrada,
the giant, seven feet of English ground, and if he be, as they say, a giant, some few inches
more!' and, as he spake, the Hall rang with acclamation.

"Sir, in that spirit I speak.  I follow, at a humble distance, the ideas and the words of Clay,
illustrious, to be venerated, and honored, and remembered, forever.  * * *  He said--I say:
that I will yield no inch, no word, to the threat of Secession, unconstitutional, revolutionary,
dangerous, unwise, at variance with the heart and the hope of all mankind save themselves.
To that I yield nothing; but if States loyal to the Constitution, if people magnanimous and
just, desiring a return of fraternal feeling, shall come to us and ask for Peace, for permanent,
enduring peace and affection, and say, 'What will you grant?  I say to them, 'Ask all that
a gentleman ought to propose, and I will yield all that a gentleman ought to offer.'  Nay,
more: if you are galled because we claim the right to prohibit Slavery in territory now Free,
or in any Territory which acknowledges our jurisdiction, we will evade--I speak but for myself--I
will aid in evading that question; I will agree to make it all States, and let the People decide
at once.  I will agree to place them in that condition where the prohibition of Slavery will
never be necessary to justify ourselves to our consciences or to our constituents.  I will
agree to anything which is not to force upon me the necessity of protecting Slavery in the
name of Freedom.  To that I never can and never will yield."

The speeches of Seward, of Douglas, of Crittenden, of Andrew Johnson, of Baker, and others,
in behalf of the Union, and those of Benjamin, Davis, Wigfall, Lane, and others, in behalf
of Secession, did much toward fixing the responsibility for the approaching bloody conflict
where it belonged.  The speeches of Andrew Johnson of Tennessee--who, if he at a subsequent
period of the Nation's history, proved himself not the worthiest son of the Republic, at this
critical time, at all events, did grand service in the National Senate--especially had great
and good effect on the public mind in the Northern and Border States.  They were, therefore,
gall and wormwood to the Secession leaders, who hoped to drag the Border States into the great
Southern Confederacy of States already in process of formation.

Their irritation was shown in threats of personal violence to Mr. Johnson, as when Wigfall--replying
February 7th, 1861, to the latter's speech, said, "Now if the Senator wishes to denounce Secession
and Nullification eo nomine, let him go back and denounce Jefferson; let him denounce Jackson,
if he dare, and go back and look that Tennessee Democracy in the face, and see whether they
will content themselves with riddling his effigy!"

It would seem also, from another part of Wigfall's reply, that the speeches of Union Senators
had been so effective that a necessity was felt on the part of the Southern Conspirators to
still further attempt to justify Secession by shifting the blame to Northern shoulders, for,
while referring to the Presidential canvass of 1860--and the attitude of the Southern Secession
leaders during that exciting period--he said: "We (Breckinridge-Democrats) gave notice, both
North and South, that if Abraham Lincoln was elected, this Union was dissolved.  I never made
a speech during the canvass without asserting that fact.  * * *  Then, I say, that our purpose
was not to dissolve the Union; but the dire necessity has been put upon us.  The question is,
whether we shall live longer in a Union in which a Party, hostile to us in every respect, has
the power in Congress, in the Executive department, and in the Electoral Colleges--a Party
who will have the power even in the Judiciary.  We think it is not safe.  We say that each
State has the clear indisputable right to withdraw if she sees fit; and six of the States have
already withdrawn, and one other State is upon the eve of withdrawing, if she has not already
done so.  How far this will spread no man can tell!"

As tending to show the peculiar mixture of brag, cajolery, and threats, involved in the attitude
of the South, as expressed by the same favorite Southern mouthpiece, toward the Border-States
on the one hand, and the Middle and New England States on the other, a further extract from
this (February 7th) speech of the Texan Senator may be of interest.  Said he:

"With exports to the amount of hundreds of millions of dollars, our imports must be the same.
With a lighter Tariff than any people ever undertook to live under, we could have larger revenue.
We would be able to stand Direct Taxation to a greater extent than any people ever could before,
since the creation of the World.  We feel perfectly competent to meet all issues that may be
presented, either by hostility from abroad or treason at home.  So far as the Border-States
are concerned, it is a matter that concerns them alone.  Should they confederate with us, beyond
all doubt New England machinery will be worked with the water power of Tennessee, of Kentucky,
of Virginia and of Maryland; the Tariff laws that now give New England the monopoly in the
thirty-three States, will give to these Border States a monopoly in the Slave-holding States.
Should the non-Slave-holding States choose to side against us in organizing their Governments,
and cling to their New England brethren, the only result will be, that the meat, the horses,
the hemp, and the grain, which we now buy in Pennsylvania, in Ohio, in Indiana and Illinois,
will be purchased in Kentucky and in Western Virginia and in Missouri.  Should Pennsylvania
stand out, the only result will be, that the iron which is now dug in Pennsylvania, will be
dug in the mountains of Tennessee and of Virginia and of Kentucky and of North Carolina. These
things we know.

"We feel no anxiety at all, so far as money or men are concerned.  We desire War with nobody;
we intend to make no War; but we intend to live under just such a Government as we see fit.
Six States have left this Union, and others are going to leave it simply because they choose
to do it; that is all.  We do not ask your consent; we do not wish it.  We have revoked our
ratification of the Treaty commonly known as the Constitution of the United States; a treaty
for common defense and general welfare; and we shall be perfectly willing to enter into another
Treaty with you, of peace and amity.  Reject the olive branch and offer us the sword, and we
accept it; we have not the slightest objection. Upon that subject we feel as the great William
Lowndes felt upon another important subject, the Presidency, which he said was neither to be
sought nor declined.  When you invade our soil, look to your own borders.  You say that you
have too many people, too many towns, too dense a population, for us to invade you.  I say
to you Senators, that there is nothing that ever stops the march of an invading force, except
a desert.  The more populous a country, the more easy it is to subsist an army."

After declaring that--"Not only are our non-Slaveholders loyal, but even our Negroes are. 
We have no apprehensions whatever of insurrection--not the slightest.  We can arm our negroes,
and leave them at home, when we are temporarily absent"--Mr. Wigfall proceeded to say: "We
may as well talk plainly about this matter.  This is probably the last time I shall have an
opportunity of addressing you.  There is another thing that an invading army cannot do.  It
cannot burn up plantations.  You can pull down fences, but the Negroes will put them up the
next morning.  The worst fuel that ever a man undertook to make fire with, is dirt; it will
not burn.  Now I have told you what an invading army cannot do.  Suppose I reverse the picture
and tell you what it can do.  An invading army in an enemy's country, where there is a dense
population, can subsist itself at a very little cost; it does not always pay for what it gets.
An invading army can burn down towns; an invading army can burn down manufactories; and it
can starve operatives.  It can do all these things.  But an Invading army, and an army to defend
a Country, both require a military chest.  You may bankrupt every man south of North Carolina,
so that his credit is reduced to such a point that he could not discount a note for thirty
dollars, at thirty days; but the next autumn those Cotton States will have just as much money
and as much credit as they had before.  They pick money off the cotton plant.  Every time that
a Negro touches a cotton-pod with his hand, he pulls a piece of silver out of it, and he drops
it into the basket in which it is carried to the gin-house.  It is carried to the packing screw.
A bale of cotton rolls out-in other words, five ten-dollar pieces roll out --covered with canvas.
We shall never again make less than five million bales of cotton.  * * *  We can produce five
million bales of cotton, every bale worth fifty dollars, which is the lowest market price it
has been for years past.  We shall import a bale of something else, for every bale of cotton
that we export, and that bale will be worth fifty dollars.  We shall find no difficulty under
a War-Tariff in raising an abundance of money.  We have been at Peace for a very long time,
We are very prosperous.  Our planters use their cotton, not to buy the necessaries of life,
but for the superfluities, which they can do without.  The States themselves have a mine of
wealth in the loyalty and the wealth of their citizens.  Georgia, Mississippi, any one of those
States can issue its six per cent. bonds tomorrow, and receive cotton in payment to the extent
almost of the entire crop.  They can first borrow from their own citizens; they can tax them
to an almost unlimited extent; and they can raise revenue from a Tariff to an almost unlimited
extent.

"How will it be with New England?  where will their revenue come from? From your Custom-houses?
what do you export?  You have been telling us here for the last quarter of a century, that
you cannot manufacture, even for the home market, under the Tariffs which we have given you.
When this Tariff ceases to operate in your favor, and you have to pay for coming into our markets,
what will you export?  When your machinery ceases to move, and your operatives are turned out,
will you tax your broken capitalist or your starving operative?  When the navigation laws cease
to operate, what will become of your shipping interest?  You are going to blockade our ports,
you say.  That is a very innocent game; and you suppose we shall sit quietly down and submit
to a blockade.  I speak not of foreign interference, for we look not for it.  We are just as
competent to take Queen Victoria and Louis Napoleon under our protection, as they are to take
us; and they are a great deal more interested to-day in receiving cotton from our ports than
we are in shipping it.  You may lock up every bale of cotton within the limits of the eight
Cotton States, and not allow us to export one for three years, and we shall not feel it further
than our military resources are concerned.  Exhaust the supply of cotton in Europe for one
week, and all Europe is in revolution.

"These are facts.  You will blockade us!  Do you suppose we shall do nothing, even upon the
sea?  How many letters of marque and reprisal would it take to put the whole of your ships
up at your wharves to rot? Will any merchant at Havre, or Liverpool, or any other portion of
the habitable globe, ship a cargo upon a New England, or New York, or Philadelphia clipper,
or other ship, when he knows that the seas are swarming with letters of marque and reprisal?
Why the mere apprehension of such a thing will cut you out of the Carrying Trade of the civilized
World.  * * *  I speak not of the absurdity of the position that you can blockade our ports,
admitting at the same time that we are in the Union. Blockade is a remedy, as all writers on
International law say, against a Foreign Power with whom you are at War.  You cannot use a
blockade against your own people.  An embargo even, you cannot use.  That is a remedy against
a Foreign Nation with whom you expect to be at War.  You must treat us as in the Union, or
out of it.  We have gone out.  We are willing to live at peace with you; but, as sure as fate,
whenever any flag comes into one of our ports, that has thirty-three stars upon it, that flag
will be fired at.  Displaying a flag with stars which we have plucked from that bright galaxy,
is an insult to the State within whose waters that flag is displayed.  You cannot enforce the
laws without Coercion, and you cannot Coerce without War.

"These matters, then, can be settled.  How?  By withdrawing your troops; admitting our right
to Self-government clearly, unqualifiedly.  Do this, and there is no difficulty about it. 
You say that you will not do it. Very well; we have no objection--none whatever.  That is Coercion.
When you have attempted it, you will find that you have made War.  These, Senators, are facts.
I come here to plead for Peace; but I have seen so much and felt so much, that I am becoming
at last, to tell the plain truth of the matter, rather indifferent as to which way the thing
turns. If you want War, you can have it.  If you want Peace, you can get it; but I plead not
for Peace."

Meanwhile the Seceding States of the South were strengthening their attitude by Confederation.

     [At a later day, March 11, 1861, a permanent Constitution for the
     "Confederate States" was adopted, and, in the Fall of the same
     year, Messrs.  Davis and Stephens were elected by popular vote, for
     the term of six years ensuing, as President and Vice-President,
     respectively, of the Confederacy.]

Mr. Davis almost at once left Jackson, Mississippi, for Montgomery, where he arrived and delivered
his Inaugural, February 17, having received on his road thither a succession of ovations from
the enthusiastic Rebels, to which he had responded with no less than twenty-five speeches,
very similar in tone to those made in the United States Senate by Mr. Wigfall and others of
that ilk--breathing at once defiance and hopefulness, while admitting the difficulties in the
way of the new Confederacy.

"It may be," said he, at Jackson, "that we will be confronted by War; that the attempt will
be made to blockade our ports, to starve us out; but they (the Union men of the North) know
little of the Southern heart, of Southern endurance.  No amount of privation could force us
to remain in a Union on unequal terms.  England and France would not allow our great staple
to be dammed up within our present limits; the starving thousands in their midst would not
allow it.  We have nothing to apprehend from Blockade.  But if they attempt invasion by land,
we must take the War out of our territory.  If War must come, it must be upon Northern, and
not upon Southern soil.  In the meantime, if they were prepared to grant us Peace, to recognize
our equality, all is well."

And, in his speech at Stevenson, Alabama, said he "Your Border States will gladly come into
the Southern Confederacy within sixty days, as we will be their only friends.  England will
recognize us, and a glorious future is before us.  The grass will grow in the Northern cities,
where the pavements have been worn off by the tread of Commerce.  We will carry War where it
is easy to advance--where food for the sword and torch await our Armies in the densely populated
cities; and though they may come and spoil our crops, we can raise them as before; while they
cannot rear the cities which took years of industry and millions of money to build."

Very different in tone to these, were the kindly and sensible utterances of Mr. Lincoln on
his journey from Springfield to Washington, about the same time, for Inauguration as President
of the United States.

So, too, at Pittsburg, Pa., February 15th, he said, of "our friends," as he termed them, the
Secessionists: "Take even their own views of the questions involved, and there is nothing to
justify the course they are pursuing.  * * * I have said nothing but what I am willing to live
by, and, if it be the pleasure of Almighty God, to die by."

Thus, as he progressed on that memorable journey from his home in Illinois, through Indianapolis,
Cincinnati, Columbus, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Erie, Buffalo, Albany, New York, Trenton, Newark,
Philadelphia, and Harrisburg-amid the prayers and blessings and acclamations of an enthusiastic
and patriotic people--he uttered words of wise conciliation and firm moderation such as beseemed
the high functions and tremendous responsibilities to which the voice of that liberty--and-union-loving
people had called him, and this too, with a full knowledge, when he made the Philadelphia speech,
that the enemies of the Republic had already planned to assassinate him before he could reach
Washington.

The prudence of his immediate friends, fortunately defeated the murderous purpose--and by the
simple device of taking the regular night express from Philadelphia instead of a special train
next day--to Washington, he reached the National Capital without molestation early on the morning
of the 23rd of February.

That morning, after Mr. Lincoln's arrival, in company with Mr. Lovejoy, the writer visited
him at Willard's Hotel.  During the interview both urged him to "Go right along, protect the
property of the Country, and put down the Rebellion, no matter at what cost in men and money."
He listened with grave attention, and said little, but very clearly indicated his approval
of all the sentiments thus expressed--and then, with the same firm and manly and cheerful faith
in the outcome, he added: "As the Country has placed me at the helm of the Ship, I'll try to
steer her through."

The spirit in which he proposed to accomplish this superhuman task, was shown when he told
the Southern people through the Civic authorities of Washington on the 27th of February--When
the latter called upon him --that he had no desire or intention to interfere with any of their
Constitutional rights--that they should have all their rights under the Constitution, "not
grudgingly, but fully and fairly."  And what was the response of the South to this generous
and conciliatory message? Personal sneers--imputations of Northern cowardice--boasts of Southern
prowess--scornful rejection of all compromise--and an insolent challenge to the bloody issue
of arms!

Said Mr. Wigfall, in the United States Senate, on March 2d, alluding to Mr. Lincoln, "I do
not think that a man who disguises himself in a soldier's cloak and a Scotch cap (a more thorough
disguise could not be assumed by such a man) and makes his entry between day and day, into
the Capital of the Country that he is to govern--I hardly think that he is going to look War
sternly in the face.

     [Had Mr. Wigfall been able at this time to look four years into the
     future and behold the downfall of the Southern Rebellion, the
     flight of its Chieftains, and the capture of Jefferson Davis while
     endeavoring to escape, with his body enclosed in a wrapper and a
     woman's shawl over his head, as stated by Lieutenant-Colonel Stuart
     of Jefferson Davis's Staff, p. 756, vol. ii., Greeley's American
     Conflict--he would hardly have retailed this slander.]

"I look for nothing else than that the Commissioners from the Confederated States will be received
here and recognized by Abraham Lincoln.  I will now predict that this Republican Party that
is going to enforce the Laws, preserve the Union, and collect Revenue, will never attempt anything
so silly; and that instead of taking Forts, the troops will be withdrawn from those which we
now have.  See if this does not turn out to be so, in less than a week or ten days."

In the same insulting diatribe, he said: "It is very easy for men to bluster who know there
is going to be no danger.  Four or five million people living in a territory that extends from
North Carolina down to the Rio Grande, who have exports to above three hundred million dollars,
whose ports cannot be blockaded, but who can issue letters of marque and reprisal, and sweep
your commerce from the seas, and who will do it, are not going to be trifled with by that sensible
Yankee nation.  Mark my words.  I did think, at one time, there was going to be War; I do not
think so now.  * * *  The Star of the West swaggered into Charleston harbor, received a blow
planted full in the face, and staggered out. Your flag has been insulted; redress it if you
dare!  You have submitted to it for two months, and you will submit to it for ever.  * * *
We have dissolved the Union; mend it if you can; cement it with blood; try the experiment!
we do not desire War; we wish to avoid it.  * * *  This we say; and if you choose to settle
this question by the Sword, we feel, we know, that we have the Right.  We interfere with you
in no way.  We ask simply that you will not interfere with us.  * * *  You tell us you will
keep us in the Union.  Try the experiment!"

And then, with brutal frankness, he continued: "Now, whether what are called The Crittenden
Resolutions will produce satisfaction in some of these Border States, or not, I am unaware;
but I feel perfectly sure they would not be entertained upon the Gulf.  As to the Resolutions
which the Peace Congress has offered us, we might as well make a clean breast of it.  If those
Resolutions were adopted, and ratified by three fourths of the States of this Union, and no
other cause ever existed, I make the assertion that the seven States now out of the Union,
would go out upon that."

                             CHAPTER VIII.

                       THE REJECTED OLIVE BRANCH.

While instructive, it will also not be devoid of interest, to pause here, and examine the nature
of the Crittenden Resolutions, and also the Resolutions of the Peace Congress, which, we have
seen, were spurned by the Secession leaders, through their chief mouthpiece in the United States
Senate.  And when any Territory, north or south of said line, within such boundaries as Congress
may prescribe, shall contain the population requisite for a member of Congress, according to
the then Federal ratio of representation of the People of the United States, it shall, if its
own form of government be republican, be admitted into the Union, on an equal footing with
the original States; with or without Slavery, as the Constitution of such new State may provide.

"Article II.  Congress shall have no power to abolish Slavery in places under its exclusive
jurisdiction, and situate within the limits of States that permit the holding of Slaves.

"Article III.  Congress shall have no power to abolish Slavery within the District of Columbia;
so long as it exists in the adjoining States of Virginia and Maryland, or either, nor without
the consent of the inhabitants, nor without just compensation first made to such owners of
Slaves as do not consent to such abolishment.  Nor shall Congress, at any time, prohibit officers
of the Federal government, or members of Congress whose duties require them to be in said District,
from bringing with them their Slaves, and holding them as such during the time their duties
may require them to remain there, and afterward taking them from the District.

"Article IV.  Congress shall have no power to prohibit or hinder the Transportation of Slaves
from one State to another, or to a Territory in which Slaves are, by law, permitted to be held,
whether that transportation be by land, navigable rivers, or by the sea.

"Article V.  That in addition to the provisions of the third paragraph of the second section
of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States, Congress shall have power to
provide by law, and it shall be its duty to provide, that the United States shall pay to the
owner who shall apply for it, the full value of his Fugitive Slaves in all cases where the
Marshal, or other officer whose duty it was to arrest said Fugitive, was prevented from so
doing by violence or intimidation, or where, after arrest, said Fugitive was rescued by force,
and the owner thereby prevented and obstructed in the pursuit of his remedy for the recovery
of his Fugitive Slave under the said clause of the Constitution and the laws made in pursuance
thereof.  IV., Sec.  2, P 3, U. S. Constitution.]

"And in all such cases, when the United States shall pay for such
Fugitive, they shall have the Right, in their own name, to sue the
county in which said violence, intimidation, or rescue, was committed,
and recover from it, with interest and damages, the amount paid by them
for said Fugitive Slave.  And the said county, after it has paid said
amount to the United States, may, for its indemnity, sue and recover
from the wrong-doers or rescuers by whom the owner was prevented from
the recovery of his Fugitive Slave, in like manner as the owner himself
might have sued and recovered.  2, P 3, U. S.
     Constitution.]

"And whereas, also, besides those causes of dissension embraced in the foregoing amendments
proposed to the Constitution of the United States, there are others which come within the jurisdiction
of Congress, and may be remedied by its legislative power; And whereas it is the desire of
Congress, as far as its power will extend, to remove all just cause for the popular discontent
and agitation which now disturb the peace of the Country and threaten the stability of its
Institutions; Therefore:

"1.  Resolved by the Senate and house of Representatives in Congress assembled, that the laws
now in force for the recovery of Fugitive Slaves are in strict pursuance of the plain and mandatory
provisions of the Constitution, and have been sanctioned as valid and Constitutional by the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States; that the Slaveholding States are entitled
to the faithful observance and execution of those laws; and that they ought not to be repealed,
or so modified or changed as to impair their efficiency; and that laws ought to be made for
the punishment of those who attempt, by rescue of the Slave, or other illegal means, to hinder
or defeat the due execution of said laws.

"2.  That all State laws which conflict with the Fugitive Slave Acts of Congress, or any other
Constitutional Acts of Congress, or which, in their operation, impede, hinder, or delay, the
free course and due execution of any of said Acts, are null and void by the plain provisions
of the Constitution of the United States; yet those State laws, void as they are, have given
color to practices, and led to consequences, which have obstructed the due administration and
execution of Acts of Congress, and especially the Acts for the delivery of Fugitive Slaves;
and have thereby contributed much to the discord and commotion now prevailing.  Congress, therefore,
in the present perilous juncture, does not deem it improper, respectfully and earnestly, to
recommend the repeal of those laws to the several States which have enacted them, or such legislative
corrections or explanations of them as may prevent their being used or perverted to such mischievous
purposes.

"3.  That the Act of the 18th of September, 1850, commonly called the Fugitive Slave Law, ought
to be so amended as to make the fee of the Commissioner, mentioned in the eighth section of
the Act, equal in amount in the cases decided by him, whether his decision be in favor of,
or against the claimant.  And, to avoid misconstruction, the last clause of the fifth section
of said Act, which authorizes the person holding a warrant for the arrest or detention of a
Fugitive Slave to summon to his aid the posse comitatus, and which declares it to be the duty
of all good citizens to assist him in its execution, ought to be so amended as to expressly
limit the authority and duty to cases in which there shall be resistance, or danger of resistance
or rescue.

"4.  That the laws for the suppression of the African Slave Trade, and especially those prohibiting
the importation of Slaves into the United States, ought to be more effectual, and ought to
be thoroughly executed; and all further enactments necessary to those ends ought to be promptly
made."

The Peace Conference, or "Congress," it may here be mentioned, was called, by action of the
Legislature of Virginia, to meet at Washington, February 4, 1861.

The Conference, or "Congress," duly convened, at that place and time, and organized by electing
ex-President John Tyler, of Virginia, its President.  In all the present territory of the United
States, north of the parallel of 36  30' of north latitude, Involuntary Servitude, except in
punishment of crime, is prohibited.  In all the present territory south of that line, the status
of Persons held to Involuntary Service or Labor, as it now exists, shall not be changed; nor
shall any law be passed by Congress or the Territorial Legislature to hinder or prevent the
taking of such Persons from any of the States of this Union to said Territory, nor to impair
the Rights arising from said relation; but the same shall be subject to judicial cognizance
in the Federal Courts, according to the course of the common law.

"Section 2.  No territory shall be acquired by the United States, except by discovery and for
naval and commercial stations, depots, and transit routes, without the concurrence of a majority
of all the Senators from States which allow Involuntary Servitude, and a majority of all the
Senators from States which prohibit that relation; nor shall Territory be acquired by treaty,
unless the votes of a majority of the Senators from each class of States hereinbefore mentioned
be cast as a part of the two-thirds majority necessary to the ratification of such treaty.

"Section 3.  Neither the Constitution, nor any amendment thereof, shall be construed to give
Congress power to regulate, abolish, or control, within any State, the relation established
or recognized by the laws thereof touching Persons held to Labor or Involuntary Service therein,
nor to interfere with or abolish Involuntary Service in the District of Columbia without the
consent of Maryland, and without the consent of the owners, or making the owners who do not
consent just compensation; nor the power to interfere with or prohibit Representatives and
others from bringing with them to the District of Columbia, retaining, and taking away, Persons
so held to Labor or Service; nor the power to interfere with or abolish Involuntary Service
in places under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States within those States and Territories
where the same is established or recognized; nor the power to prohibit the removal or transportation
of Persons held to Labor or Involuntary Service in any State or Territory of the United States
to any other State or Territory thereof where it is established or recognized by law or usage;
and the right during transportation, by sea or river, of touching at ports, shores, and landings,
and of landing in case of distress, shall exist; but not the right of transit in or through
any State or Territory, or of sale or traffic, against the laws thereof. Nor shall Congress
have power to authorize any higher rate of taxation on Persons held to Labor or Service than
on land.  The bringing into the District of Columbia of Persons held to Labor or Service, for
sale, or placing them in depots to be afterwards transferred to other places for sale as merchandize,
is prohibited.

"Section 4.  The third paragraph of the second section of the fourth article of the Constitution
shall not be construed to prevent any of the States, by appropriate legislation, and through
the action of their judicial and ministerial officers, from enforcing the delivery of Fugitives
from Labor to the person to whom such Service or Labor is due.

"Section 5.  The Foreign Slave Trade is hereby forever prohibited; and it shall be the duty
of Congress to pass laws to prevent the importation of Slaves, Coolies, or Persons held to
Service or Labor, into the United States and the Territories from places beyond the limits thereof.

"Section 6.  The first, third, and fifth sections, together with this section of these amendments,
and the third paragraph of the second section of the first article of the Constitution, and
the third paragraph of the second section of the fourth article thereof, shall not be amended
or abolished without the consent of all the States.

"Section 7.  Congress shall provide by law for securing to the citizens of each State the privileges
and immunities of citizens in the several States."

To spurn such propositions as these--with all the concessions to the Slave Power therein contained--was
equivalent to spurning any and all propositions that could possibly be made; and by doing this,
the Seceding States placed themselves--as they perhaps desired--in an utterly irreconcilable
attitude, and hence, to a certain extent, which had not entered into their calculations, weakened
their "Cause" in the eyes of many of their friends in the North, in the Border States, and
in the World.  They had become Implacables.  Practically considered, this was their great mistake.
The Crittenden Compromise Resolutions covered and yielded to the Slaveholders of the South
all and even more than they had ever dared seriously to ask or hope for, and had they been
open to Conciliation, they could have undoubtedly carried that measure through both Houses
of Congress and three-fourths of the States.

     ["Its advocates, with good reason, claimed a large majority of the
     People in its favor, and clamored for its submission to a direct
     popular vote.  Had such a submission been accorded, it is very
     likely that the greater number of those who voted at all would have
     voted to ratify it.  * * *  The 'Conservatives,' so called, were
     still able to establish this Crittenden Compromise by their own
     proper strength, had they been disposed so to do.  The President
     was theirs; the Senate strongly theirs; in the House, they had a
     small majority, as was evidenced in their defeat of John Sherman
     for Speaker.  Had they now come forward and said, with authority:
     'Enable us to pass the Crittenden Compromise, and all shall be
     peace and harmony,' they would have succeeded without difficulty.
     It was only through the withdrawal of pro-slavery members that the
     Republicans had achieved an unexpected majority in either House.
     Had those members chosen to return to the seats still awaiting
     them, and to support Mr. Crittenden's proposition, they could have
     carried it without difficulty."--Vol. 360, Greeley's Am. Conflict.]

But no, they wilfully withdrew their Congressional membership, State by State, as each Seceded,
and refused all terms save those which involved an absolute surrender to them on all points,
including the impossible claim of the "Right of Secession."

Let us now briefly trace the history of the Compromise measures in the two Houses of Congress.

The Crittenden-Compromise Joint-Resolution had been introduced in the Senate at the opening
of its session and referred to a Select Committee of Thirteen, and subsequently, January 16th,
1861, having been reported back, came up in that body for action.  On that day it was amended
by inserting the words "now held or hereafter to be acquired" after the words "In all the territory
of the United States," in the first line of Article I., so that it would read as given above.
This amendment--by which not only in all territory then belonging to the United States, but
also by implication in all that might thereafter be acquired, Slavery South of 36 30' was to
be recognized--was agreed to by 29 yeas to 21 nays, as follows:

YEAS.--Messrs.  Baker, Bayard, Benjamin, Bigler, Bragg, Bright, Clingman, Crittenden, Douglas,
Fitch, Green, Gwin, Hemphill, Hunter, Iverson, Johnson of Tennessee, Kennedy, Lane, Mason,
Nicholson, Pearce, Polk, Powell, Pugh, Rice, Saulsbury, Sebastian, Slidell and Wigfall--29.

NAYS.--Messrs.  Anthony, Bingham, Cameron, Chandler, Clark, Collamer, Dixon, Doolittle, Durkee,
Fessenden, Foot, Foster, Grimes, Hale, Harlan, King, Latham, Seward, Simmons, Sumner, Ten Eyck,
Trumbull, Wade and Wilson--24.

The question now recurred upon an amendment, in the nature of a substitute, offered by Mr.
Clark, to strike out the preamble of the Crittenden proposition and all of the resolutions
after the word "resolved," and insert:

"That the provisions of the Constitution are ample for the preservation of the Union, and the
protection of all the material interests of the Country; that it needs to be obeyed rather
than amended; and that an extrication from our present dangers is to be looked for in strenuous
efforts to preserve the peace, protect the public property, and enforce the laws, rather than
in new Guarantees for particular interests, Compromises for particular difficulties, or Concessions
to unreasonable demands.

"Resolved, That all attempts to dissolve the present Union, or overthrow or abandon the present
Constitution, with the hope or expectation of constructing a new one, are dangerous, illusory,
and destructive; that in the opinion of the Senate of the United States no such Reconstruction
is practicable; and, therefore, to the maintenance of the existing Union and Constitution should
be directed all the energies of all the departments of the Government, and the efforts of all
good citizens."

Before reaching a vote on this amendment, Mr. Anthony, (January 16th) made a most conciliatory
speech, pointing out such practical objections to the Crittenden proposition as occurred to
his mind, and then, continuing, said: "I believe, Mr. President, that if the danger which menaces
us is to be avoided at all, it must be by Legislation; which is more ready, more certain, and
more likely to be satisfactory, than Constitutional Amendment.  The main difficulty is the
Territorial question.  The demand of the Senators on the other side of the Chamber, and of
those whom they represent, is that the territory south of the line of the Missouri Compromise
shall be open to their peculiar Property.  All this territory, except the Indian Reservation,
is within the limits of New Mexico; which, for a part of its northern boundary, runs up two
degrees above that line.  This is now a Slave Territory; made so by Territorial Legislation;
and Slavery exists there, recognized and protected.  Now, I am willing, as soon as Kansas can
be admitted, to vote for the admission of New Mexico as a State, with such Constitution as
the People may adopt.  This disposes of all the territory that is adapted to Slave Labor or
that is claimed by the South.  It ought to settle the whole question.  Surely if we can dispose
of all the territory that we have, we ought not to quarrel over that which we have not, and
which we have no very honest way of acquiring.  Let us settle the difficulties that threaten
us now, and not anticipate those which may never come.  Let the public mind have time to cool
* * *.  In offering to settle this question by the admission of New Mexico, we of the North
who assent to it propose a great Sacrifice, and offer a large Concession.

"* * *  But we make the offer in a spirit of Compromise and good feeling, which we hope will
be reciprocated.  * * *  I appeal to Senators on the other side, when we thus offer to bridge
over full seven-eighths of the frightful chasm that separates us, will you not build the other
eighth?  When, with outstretched arms, we approach you so near that, by reaching out your hands
you can clasp ours in the fraternal grasp from which they should never be separated, will you,
with folded arms and closed eyes, stand upon extreme demands which you know we cannot accept,
and for which, if we did, we could not carry our constituents?  * * * Together our Fathers
achieved the Independence of their Country; together they laid the foundations of its greatness
and its glory; together they constructed this beautiful system under which it is our privilege
to live, which it is our duty to preserve and to transmit.  Together we enjoy that privilege;
together we must perform that duty.  I will not believe that, in the madness of popular folly
and delusion, the most benignant Government that ever blessed humanity is to be broken up.
I will not believe that this great Power which is marching with giant steps toward the first
place among the Nations of the Earth, is to be turned 'backward on its mighty track.'  There
are no grievances, fancied or real, that cannot be redressed within the Union and under the
Constitution.  There are no differences between us that may not be settled if we will take
them up in the spirit of those to whose places we have succeeded, and the fruits of whose labors
we have inherited."

And to this more than fair proposition to the Southerners--to this touching appeal in behalf
of Peace--what was the response?  Not a word! It seemed but to harden their hearts.

     [Immediately after Mr. Anthony's appeal to the Southern Senators, a
     motion was made by Mr. Collamer to postpone the Crittenden
     Resolutions and take up the Kansas Admission Bill.  Here was the
     chance at once offered to them to respond to that appeal--to make a
     first step, as it were.  They would not make it.  The motion was
     defeated by 25 yeas to 30 nays--Messrs. Benjamin and Slidell of
     Louisiana, Hemphill and Wigfall of Texas, Iverson of Georgia, and
     Johnson of Arkansas, voting "nay."  The question at once recurred
     on the amendment of Mr. Clark--being a substitute for the
     Crittenden Resolutions, declaring in effect all Compromise
     unnecessary.  To let that substitute be adopted, was to insure the
     failure of the Crittenden proposition.  Yet these same six Southern
     Senators though present, refused to vote, and permitted the
     substitute to be adopted by 25 yeas to 23 nays.  The vote of Mr.
     Douglas, who had been "called out for an instant into the
     ante-room, and deprived of the opportunity of voting "--as he
     afterwards stated when vainly asking unanimous consent to have his
     vote recorded among the nays-would have made it 25 yeas to 24 nays,
     had he been present and voting, while the votes of the six Southern
     Senators aforesaid, had they voted, would have defeated the
     substitute by 25 yeas to 30 nays.  Then upon a direct vote on the
     Crittenden Compromise there would not only have been the 30 in its
     favor, but the vote of at least one Republican (Baker) in addition,
     to carry it, and, although that would not have given the necessary
     two-thirds, yet it would have been a majority handsome enough to
     have ultimately turned the scales, in both Houses, for a peaceful
     adjustment of the trouble, and have avoided all the sad
     consequences which so speedily befell the Nation.  But this would
     not have suited the Treasonable purposes of the Conspirators.  Ten
     days before this they had probably arranged the Programme in this,
     as well as other matters.  Very certain it is that no time was lost
     by them and their friends in making the best use for their Cause of
     this vote, in the doubtful States of Missouri and North Carolina
     especially.  In the St. Louis journals a Washington dispatch,
     purporting (untruly however) to come from Senators Polk and Green,
     was published to this effect.

     "The Crittenden Resolutions were lost by a vote of 25 to 23.  A
     motion of Mr. Cameron to reconsider was lost; and thus ends all
     hope of reconciliation.  Civil War is now considered inevitable,
     and late accounts declare that Fort Sumter will be attacked without
     delay.  The Missouri delegation recommend immediate Secession."

     This is but a sample of other similar dispatches sent elsewhere.
     And the following dispatch, signed by Mr. Crittenden, and published
     in the Raleigh, N.  C., Register, to quiet the excitement raised by
     the telegrams of the Conspirators, serves also to indicate that the
     friends of Compromise were not disheartened by their defeat:

                    "WASHINGTON, Jan.  17th, 9 P. M.

     "In reply the vote against my resolutions will be reconsidered.
     Their failure was the result of the refusal of six Southern
     Senators to vote.  There is yet good hope of success.

                    "JOHN J. CRITTENDEN."

     There is instruction also to be drawn from the speeches of Senators
     Saulsbury, and Johnson of Tennessee, made fully a year afterward
     (Jan. 29-31, 1862) in the Senate, touching the defeat of the
     Crittenden Compromise by the Clark substitute at this time.
     Speaking of the second session of the Thirty-sixth Congress, Mr.
     Saulsbury said:

     "At that session, while vainly striving with others for the
     adoption of those measures, I remarked in my place in the Senate
     that--

     "'If any Gibbon should hereafter write the Decline and Fall of the
     American Republic, he would date its fall from the rejection by the
     Senate of the propositions submitted by the Senator from Kentucky.'

     "I believed so then, and I believe so now.  I never shall forget,
     Mr. President, how my heart bounded for joy when I thought I saw a
     ray of hope for their adoption in the fact that a Republican
     Senator now on this floor came to me and requested that I should
     inquire of Mr. Toombs, who was on the eve of his departure for
     Georgia to take a seat in the Convention of that State which was to
     determine the momentous question whether she should continue a
     member of the Union or withdraw from it, whether, if the Crittenden
     propositions were adopted, Georgia would remain in the Union.

     "Said Mr. Toombs:

     "'Tell him frankly for me that if those resolutions are adopted by
     the vote of any respectable number of Republican Senators,
     evidencing their good faith to advocate their ratification by their
     people, Georgia will not Secede.  This is the position I assumed
     before the people of Georgia.  I told them that if the party in
     power gave evidence of an intention to preserve our rights in the
     Union, we were bound to wait until their people could act.'

     "I communicated the answer.  The Substitute of the Senator from New
     Hampshire [Mr. Clark] was subsequently adopted, and from that day
     to this the darkness and the tempest and the storm have thickened,
     until thousands like myself, as good and as true Union men as you,
     Sir, though you may question our motives, have not only despaired
     but are without hope in the future."

     To this speech, Mr. Johnson of Tennessee subsequently replied as
     follows in the United States Senate (Jan.  31, 1862)

     "Sir, it has been said by the distinguished Senator from Delaware
     [Mr. Saulsbury] that the questions of controversy might all have
     been settled by Compromise.  He dealt rather extensively in the
     Party aspect of the case, and seemingly desired to throw the onus
     of the present condition of affairs entirely on one side.  He told
     us that, if so and so had been done, these questions could have
     been settled, and that now there would have been no War.  He
     referred particularly to the resolution offered during the last
     Congress by the Senator from New Hampshire [Mr. Clark], and upon
     the vote on that he based his argument.  * * *  The Senator told us
     that the adoption of the Clark amendment to the Crittenden
     Resolutions defeated the settlement of the questions of
     controversy; and that, but for that vote, all could have been peace
     and prosperity now.  We were told that the Clark amendment defeated
     the Crittenden Compromise, and prevented a settlement of the
     controversy.  On this point I will read a portion of the speech of
     my worthy and talented friend from California [Mr. Latham]; and
     when I speak of him thus, I do it in no unmeaning sense I intend
     that he, not I, shall answer the Senator from Delaware.  * * *  As
     I have said, the Senator from Delaware told us that the Clark
     amendment was the turning point in the whole matter; that from it
     had flowed Rebellion, Revolution, War, the shooting and
     imprisonment of people in different States--perhaps he meant to
     include my own.  This was the Pandora's box that has been opened,
     out of which all the evils that now afflict the Land have flown.  *
     * *  My worthy friend from California [Mr. Latham], during the last
     session of Congress, made one of the best speeches he ever made.  *
     * * In the course of that speech, upon this very point he made use
     of these remarks:

     "'Mr. President, being last winter a careful eye-witness of all
     that occurred, I soon became satisfied that it was a deliberate,
     wilful design, on the part of some representatives of Southern
     States, to seize upon the election of Mr. Lincoln merely as an
     excuse to precipitate this revolution upon the Country.  One
     evidence, to my mind, is the fact that South Carolina never sent
     her Senators here.'

     "Then they certainly were not influenced by the Clark amendment.

     "'An additional evidence is, that when gentlemen on this floor, by
     their votes, could have controlled legislation, they refused to
     cast them for fear that the very Propositions submitted to this
     body might have an influence in changing the opinions of their
     constituencies.  Why, Sir, when the resolutions submitted by the
     Senator from New Hampshire [Mr. Clark], were offered as an
     amendment to the Crittenden Propositions, for the manifest purpose
     of embarrassing the latter, and the vote taken on the 16th of
     January, 1861, I ask, what did we see?  There were fifty-five
     Senators at that time upon this floor, in person.  The Globe of the
     second Session, Thirty-Sixth Congress, Part I., page 409, shows
     that upon the call of the yeas and nays immediately preceding the
     vote on the substituting of Mr. Clark's amendment, there were
     fifty-five votes cast.

     "'Six senators retained their seats and refused to vote, thus
     themselves allowing the Clark Proposition to supplant the
     Crittenden Resolution by a vote of twenty-five to twenty-three.
     Mr. Benjamin of Louisiana, Mr. Hemphill and Mr. Wigfall of Texas,
     Mr. Iverson of Georgia, Mr. Johnson of Arkansas, and Mr. Slidell of
     Louisiana, were in their seats, but refused to cast their votes.'

     "I sat right behind Mr. Benjamin, and I am not sure that my worthy
     friend was not close by, when he refused to vote, and I said to
     him, 'Mr. Benjamin, why do you not vote?  Why not save this
     Proposition, and see if we cannot bring the Country to it?'  He
     gave me rather an abrupt answer, and said he would control his own
     action without consulting me or anybody else.  Said I: 'Vote, and
     show yourself an honest man.'  As soon as the vote was taken, he
     and others telegraphed South, 'We cannot get any Compromise.'  Here
     were six Southern men refusing to vote, when the amendment would
     have been rejected by four majority if they had voted.  Who, then,
     has brought these evils on the Country?  Was it Mr. Clark?  He was
     acting out his own policy; but with the help we had from the other
     side of the chamber, if all those on this side had been true to the
     Constitution and faithful to their constituents, and had acted with
     fidelity to the Country, the amendment of the Senator from New
     Hampshire could have been voted down, the defeat of which the
     Senator from Delaware says would have saved the Country.  Whose
     fault was it?  Who is responsible for it?  * * *  Who did it?
     SOUTHERN TRAITORS, as was said in the speech of the Senator from
     California.  They did it.  They wanted no Compromise.  They
     accomplished their object by withholding their votes; and hence the
     Country has been involved in the present difficulty.  Let me read
     another extract from this speech of the Senator from California

     "'I recollect full well the joy that pervaded the faces of some of
     those gentlemen at the result, and the sorrow manifested by the
     venerable Senator from Kentucky [Mr. Crittenden].  The record shows
     that Mr. Pugh, from Ohio, despairing of any Compromise between the
     extremes of ultra Republicanism and Disunionists, working
     manifestly for the same end, moved, immediately after the vote was
     announced, to lay the whole subject on the table.  If you will turn
     to page 443, same volume, you will find, when, at a late period,
     Mr. Cameron, from Pennsylvania, moved to reconsider the vote,
     appeals having been made to sustain those who were struggling to
     preserve the Peace of the Country, that the vote was reconsidered;
     and when, at last, the Crittenden Propositions were submitted on
     the 2d day of March, these Southern States having 'nearly all
     Seceded, they were then lost but by one vote.  Here is the vote:

     "YEAS-Messrs.  Bayard, Bigler, Bright, Crittenden, Douglas, Gwin,
     Hunter, Johnson of Tennessee, Kennedy, Lane, Latham, Mason,
     Nicholson, Polk, Pugh, Rice, Sebastian, Thomson and Wigfall--19.

     "'NAYS-Messrs.  Anthony, Bingham, Chandler, Clark, Dixon,
     Doolittle, Durkee, Fessenden, Foot, Foster, Grimes, Harlan, King,
     Morrill, Sumner, Ten Eyck, Trumbull, Wade, Wilkinson and Wilson--20.

     "'If these Seceding Southern senators had remained, there would
     have passed, by a large vote (as it did without them), an
     amendment, by a two-third vote, forbidding Congress ever
     interfering with Slavery in the States.  The Crittenden Proposition
     would have been indorsed by a majority vote, the subject finally
     going before the People, who have never yet, after consideration,
     refused Justice, for any length of time, to any portion of the
     Country.

     "'I believe more, Mr. President, that these gentlemen were acting
     in pursuance of a settled and fixed plan to break up and destroy
     this Government.'

     "When we had it in our power to vote down the amendment of the
     Senator from New Hampshire, and adopt the Crittenden Resolutions,
     certain Southern Senators prevented it; and yet, even at a late day
     of the session, after they had Seceded, the Crittenden Proposition
     was only lost by one vote.  If Rebellion and bloodshed and murder
     have followed, to whose skirts does the responsibility attach?

     "What else was done at the very same session?  The House of
     Representatives passed, and sent to this body, a Proposition to
     amend the Constitution of the United States, so as to prohibit
     Congress from ever hereafter interfering with the Institution of
     Slavery in the States, making that restriction a part of the
     Organic law of the Land.  That Constitutional Amendment came here
     after the Senators from seven States had Seceded; and yet it was
     passed by a two-third vote in the Senate.  Have you ever heard of
     any one of the States which had then Seceded, or which has since
     Seceded, taking up that Amendment to the Constitution, and saying
     they would ratify it, and make it a part of that instrument?  No.
     Does not the whole history of this Rebellion tell you that it was
     Revolution that the Leaders wanted, that they started for, that
     they intended to have?  The facts to which I have referred show how
     the Crittenden Proposition might have been carried; and when the
     Senators from the Slave States were reduced to one-fourth of the
     members of this body, the two Houses passed a Proposition to Amend
     the Constitution, so as to guarantee to the States perfect security
     in regard to the Institution of Slavery in all future time, and
     prohibiting Congress from legislating on the subject.

     "But what more was done?  After Southern Senators had treacherously
     abandoned the Constitution and deserted their posts here, Congress
     passed Bills for the Organization of three new Territories: Dakota,
     Nevada, and Colorado; and in the sixth section of each of those
     Bills, after conferring, affirmatively, power on the Territorial
     Legislature, it went on to exclude certain powers by using a
     negative form of expression; and it provided, among other things,
     that the Legislature should have no power to legislate so as to
     impair the right to private property; that it should lay no tax
     discriminating against one description of Property in favor of
     another; leaving the power on all these questions, not in the
     Territorial Legislature, but in the People when they should come to
     form a State Constitution.

     "Now, I ask, taking the Amendment to the Constitution, and taking
     the three Territorial Bills, embracing every square inch of
     territory in the possession of the United States, how much of the
     Slavery question was left?  What better Compromise could have been
     made?  Still we are told that matters might have been Compromised,
     and that if we had agreed to Compromise, bloody Rebellion would not
     now be abroad in the Land.  Sir, Southern Senators are responsible
     for it.  They stood here with power to accomplish the result, and
     yet treacherously, and, I may say, tauntingly they left this
     chamber, and announced that they had dissolved their connection
     with the Government.  Then, when we were left in the hands of those
     whom we had been taught to believe would encroach upon our Rights,
     they gave us, in the Constitutional Amendment and in the three
     Territorial Bills, all that had ever been asked; and yet gentlemen
     talked Compromise!

     "Why was not this taken and accepted?  No; it was not Compromise
     that the Leaders wanted; they wanted Power; they wanted to Destroy
     this Government, so that they might have place and emolument for
     themselves.  They had lost confidence in the intelligence and
     virtue and integrity of the People, and their capacity to govern
     themselves; and they intended to separate and form a government,
     the chief corner-stone of which should be Slavery, disfranchising
     the great mass of the People, of which we have seen constant
     evidence, and merging the Powers of Government in the hands of the
     Few.  I know what I say.  I know their feelings and their
     sentiments.  I served in the Senate here with them.  I know they
     were a Close Corporation, that had no more confidence in or respect
     for the People than has the Dey of Algiers.  I fought that Close
     Corporation here.  I knew that they were no friends of the People.
     I knew that Slidell and Mason and Benjamin and Iverson and Toombs
     were the enemies of Free Government, and I know so now.  I
     commenced the war upon them before a State Seceded; and I intend to
     keep on fighting this great battle before the Country, for the
     perpetuity of Free Government.  They seek to overthrow it, and to
     establish a Despotism in its place.  That is the great battle which
     is upon our hands.  * * *  Now, the Senator from Delaware tells us
     that if that (Crittenden) Compromise had been made, all these
     consequences would have been avoided.  It is a mere pretense; it is
     false.  Their object was to overturn the Government.  If they could
     not get the Control of this Government, they were willing to divide
     the Country and govern part of it."]

The Clark substitute was then agreed to, by 25 (Republican) yeas to 23 Democratic and Conservative
(Bell-Everett) nays--6 Pro-Slavery Senators not voting, although present; and then, without
division, the Crittenden Resolutions were tabled--Mr. Cameron, however, entering a motion to
reconsider.  Subsequently the action of the Senate, both on the Resolutions and Substitute,
was reconsidered, and March 2d the matter came up again, as will hereafter appear.

"Resolved, That the several States be respectfully requested to cause their Statutes to be
revised, with a view to ascertain if any of them are in conflict with or tend to embarrass
or hinder the execution of the Laws of the United States, made in pursuance of the second section
of the Fourth Article of the Constitution of the United States for the delivery up of Persons
held to Labor by the laws of any State and escaping therefrom; and the Senate and House of
Representatives earnestly request that all enactments having such tendency be forthwith repealed,
as required by a just sense of Constitutional obligations, and by a due regard for the Peace
of the Republic; and the President of the United States is requested to communicate these resolutions
to the Governors of the several States, with a request that they will lay the same before the
Legislatures thereof respectively.

"Resolved, That we recognize Slavery as now existing in fifteen of the United States by the
usages and laws of those States; and we recognize no authority, legally or otherwise, outside
of a State where it so exists, to interfere with Slaves or Slavery in such States, in disregard
of the Rights of their owners or the Peace of society.

"Resolved, That we recognize the justice and propriety of a faithful execution of the Constitution,
and laws made in pursuance thereof, on the subject of Fugitive Slaves, or Fugitives from Service
or Labor, and discountenance all mobs or hindrances to the execution of such laws, and that
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States.

"Resolved, That we recognize no such conflicting elements in its composition, or sufficient
cause from any source, for a dissolution of this Government; that we were not sent here to
destroy, but to sustain and harmonize the Institutions of the Country, and to see that equal
justice is done to all parts of the same; and finally, to perpetuate its existence on terms
of equality and justice to all the States.

"Resolved, That a faithful observance, on the part of all the States, of all their Constitutional
obligations to each other and to the Federal Government, is essential to the Peace of the Country.

"Resolved, That it is the duty of the Federal Government to enforce the Federal Laws, protect
the Federal property, and preserve the Union of these States.

"Resolved, That each State be requested to revise its Statutes, and, if necessary, so to amend
the same as to secure, without Legislation by Congress, to citizens of other States traveling
therein, the same protection as citizens of such States enjoy; and also to protect the citizens
of other States traveling or sojourning therein against popular violence or illegal summary
punishment, without trial in due form of law, for imputed crimes.

"Resolved, That each State be also respectfully requested to enact such laws as will prevent
and punish any attempt whatever in such State to recognize or set on foot the lawless invasion
of any other State or Territory.

"Resolved, That the President be requested to transmit copies of the foregoing resolutions
to the Governors of the several States, with a request that they be communicated to their respective
Legislatures."

This Joint Resolution, with amendments proposed to the same, came up in the House for action,
on the 27th of February, 1861--the same day upon which the Peace Congress or Conference concluded
its labors at Washington.

The Proposition of Mr. Burch, of California, was the first acted upon. It was to amend the
Select Committee's resolutions, as above given, by adding to them another resolution at the
end thereof, as follows:

"Resolved, etc., That it be, and is hereby, recommended to the several States of the Union
that they, through their respective Legislatures, request the Congress of the United States
to call a Convention of all the States, in accordance with Article Fifth of the Constitution,
for the purpose of amending said Constitution in such manner and with regard to such subjects
as will more adequately respond to the wants, and afford more sufficient Guarantees to the
diversified and growing Interests of the Government and of the People composing the same."

This (Burch) amendment, however, was defeated by 14 yeas to 109 nays.

A Proposition of Mr. Kellogg, of Illinois, came up next for action.  It was a motion to strike
out all after the first word "That" in the Crittenden Proposition--which had been offered by
Mr. Clemens as a substitute for the Committee Resolutions--and insert the following:

"The following articles be, and are hereby, proposed and submitted as Amendments to the Constitution
of the United States, which shall be valid, to all intents and purposes as part of said Constitution,
when ratified by Conventions of three-fourths of the several States.

"Article XIII.

"Article XIV.  That nothing in the Constitution of the United States, or any amendment thereto,
shall be so construed as to authorize any Department of the Government to in any manner interfere
with the relation of Persons held to Service in any State where that relation exists, nor in
any manner to establish or sustain that relation in any State where it is prohibited by the
Laws or Constitution of such State. And that this Article shall not be altered or amended without
the consent of every State in the Union.

"Article XV.  The third paragraph of the second section of the Fourth Article of the Constitution
shall be taken and construed to authorize and empower Congress to pass laws necessary to secure
the return of Persons held to Service or Labor under the laws of any State, who may have escaped
therefrom, to the party to whom such Service or Labor may be due.

"Article XVI.  The migration or importation of Persons held to Service or Involuntary Servitude,
into any State, Territory, or place within the United States, from any place or country beyond
the limits of the United States or Territories thereof, is forever prohibited.

"Article XVII.  No territory beyond the present limits of the United States and the Territories
thereof, shall be annexed to or be acquired by the United States, unless by treaty, which treaty
shall be ratified by a vote of two-thirds of the Senate."

The Kellogg Proposition was defeated by 33 yeas to 158 nays.

The Clemens Substitute was next voted on.  This embraced the whole of the Crittenden Compromise
Proposition, as amended in the Senate by inserting the provision as to all territory "hereafter
acquired," with the addition of another proposed Article of Amendment to the Constitution,
as follows:

"Article VII.  Section I.  The elective franchise and the Right to hold office, whether Federal,
State, Territorial, or Municipal, shall not be exercised by Persons who are, in whole or in
part, of the African Race.

"Section II.  The United States shall have power to acquire from time to time districts of
country in Africa and South America, for the colonization, at expense of the Federal Treasury,
of such Free Negroes and Mulattoes as the several States may wish to have removed from their
limits, and from the District of Columbia, and such other places as may be under the jurisdiction
of Congress."

The Clemens Substitute (or Crittenden Measure, with the addition of said proposed Article VII.),
was defeated by 80 yeas to 113 nays, and then the Joint Resolution of the Select Committee
as heretofore given--after a vain attempt to table it--was passed by 136 yeas to 53 nays. 
No amendment of this Constitution having for its object any interference within the States
with the relation between their citizens and those described in Section II. of the First Article
of the Constitution as 'all other persons,' shall originate with any State that does not recognize
that relation within its own limits, or shall be valid without the assent of every one of the
States composing the Union."

Mr. Corwin submitted an Amendment striking out all the words after "namely;" and inserting
the following:

"Article XII.

Amid scenes of great disorder, the Corwin Amendment was adopted by 120 yeas to 61 nays, and
then the Joint Resolution as amended, was defeated (two-thirds not voting in the affirmative)
by 123 yeas to 71 nays.  On the following day (February 28th), amid still greater confusion
and disorder, which the Speaker, despite frequent efforts, was unable to quell, that vote was
reconsidered, and the Joint Resolution passed by 133 yeas to 65 nays--a result which, when
announced was received with "loud and prolonged applause, both on the floor, and in the galleries."

On the 2d of March, the House Joint Resolution just given, proposing an Amendment to the Constitution,
prohibiting Congress from touching Slavery within any State where it exists, came up in the
Senate for action.

Mr. Pugh moved to substitute for it the Crittenden Proposition.

Mr. Doolittle moved to amend the proposed substitute (the Crittenden Proposition), by the insertion
of the following, as an additional Article:

"Under this Constitution, as originally adopted, and as it now exists, no State has power to
withdraw from the jurisdiction of the United States; but this Constitution, and all laws passed
in pursuance of its delegated powers, are the Supreme Law of the Land, anything contained in
any Constitution, Ordinance, or Act of any State, to the contrary notwithstanding."

Mr. Doolittle's amendment was lost by 18 yeas to 28 nays.

Mr. Pugh's substitute (the Crittenden Proposition), was lost by 14 yeas to 25 nays.

Mr. Bingham moved to amend the House Joint Resolution, by striking out all after the word "resolved,"
and inserting the words of the Clark Proposition as heretofore given, but the amendment was
rejected by 13 yeas to 25 nays.

This amendment was also rejected, by 14 yeas to 25 nays.

Mr. Johnson, of Arkansas, offered, as an amendment to the House Joint Resolution, the propositions
submitted by the Peace Congress or Conference, but the amendment was disagreed to by 3 yeas
to 34 nays.

The House Joint Resolution was then adopted by 24 yeas to 12 nays.

Subsequently the Crittenden Proposition came up again as a separate order, with the Clark substitute
to it (once carried, but reconsidered), pending.  The Clark substitute was then rejected by
14 yeas to 22 nays.

Mr. Crittenden then offered the Propositions of the Peace Congress, as a substitute for his
own-and they were rejected by 7 yeas to 28 nays.

The Crittenden Proposition itself was then rejected, by 19 yeas to 20 nays.

                              CHAPTER IX.

                 SLAVERY'S SETTING, AND FREEDOM'S DAWN.

On that long last night of the 36th Congress--and of the Democratic Administration--to the
proceedings of which reference was made in the preceding Chapter, several notable speeches
were made, but there was substantially nothing done, in the line of Compromise.  The only thing
that had been accomplished was the passage, as we have seen, by two-thirds majority in both
Houses, of the Joint Resolution proposing a Constitutional Amendment prohibiting Congress from
meddling with Slavery in Slave States.  There was no Concession nor Compromise in this, because
Republicans, as well as Democrats, had always held that Congress had no such power.  It is
true that the Pro-slavery men had charged the Republicans with ultimate designs, through Congress,
upon Slavery in the Slave States; and Mr. Crittenden pleaded for its passage as exhibiting
a spirit, on their part, of reconciliation; that was all.

In his speech that night--that memorable and anxious night preceding the Inauguration of President
Lincoln--the venerable Mr. Crittenden, speaking before the Resolution was agreed to, well sketched
the situation when he said in the Senate: "It is an admitted fact that our Union, to some extent,
has already been dismembered; and that further dismemberment is impending and threatened. 
It is a fact that the Country is in danger.  This is admitted on all hands.  It is our duty,
if we can, to provide a remedy for this.  We are, under the Constitution and by the election
of the People, the great guardians, as well as the administrators of this Government.  To our
wisdom they have trusted this great chart.  Remedies have been proposed; resolutions have been
offered, proposing for adoption measures which it was thought would satisfy the Country, and
preserve as much of the Union as remained to us at least, if they were not enough at once to
recall the Seceding States to the Union.  We have passed none of these measures.  The differences
of opinion among Senators have been such that we have not been able to concur in any of the
measures which have been proposed, even by bare majorities, much less by that two-thirds majority
which is necessary to carry into effect some of the pacific measures which have been proposed.
We are about to adjourn.  We have done nothing.  Even the Senate of the United States, beholding
this great ruin around them, beholding Dismemberment and Revolution going on, and Civil War
threatened as the result, have been able to do nothing; we have absolutely done nothing. Sir,
is not this a remarkable spectacle?  * * * How does it happen that not even a bare majority
here, when the Country trusted to our hands is going to ruin, have been competent to devise
any measure of public safety?  How does it happen that we have not had unanimity enough to
agree on any measure of that kind?  Can we account for it to ourselves, gentlemen?  We see
the danger; we acknowledge our duty, and yet, with all this before us, we are acknowledging
before the world that we can do nothing; acknowledging before the world, or appearing to all
the world, as men who do nothing!  Sir, this will make a strange record in the history of Governments
and in the history of the world.  Some are for Coercion; yet no army has been raised, no navy
has been equipped.  Some are for pacification; yet they have been able to do nothing; the dissent
of their colleagues prevents them; and here we are in the midst of a falling Country, in the
midst of a falling State, presenting to the eyes of the World the saddest spectacle it has
ever seen.  Cato is represented by Addison as a worthy spectacle, 'a great man falling with
a falling State,' but he fell struggling.  We fall with the ignominy on our heads of doing
nothing, like the man who stands by and sees his house in flames, and says to himself, 'perhaps
the fire will stop before it consumes all.'"

One of the strong pleas made in the Senate that night, was by Mr. Douglas, when he said: "The
great issue with the South has been that they would not submit to the Wilmot proviso.  The
Republican Party affirmed the doctrine that Congress must and could prohibit Slavery in the
Territories.  The issue for ten years was between Non-intervention on the part of Congress,
and prohibition by Congress.  Up to two years ago, neither the Senator (Mason) from Virginia,
nor any other Southern Senator, desired affirmative legislation to protect Slavery.  Even up
to this day, not one of them has proposed affirmative legislation to protect it.  Whenever
the question has come up, they have decided that affirmative legislation to protect it was
unnecessary; and hence, all that the South required on the Territorial question was 'hands
off; Slavery shall not be prohibited by Act of Congress.' Now, what do we find?  This very
session, in view of the perils which surround the Country, the Republican Party, in both Houses
of Congress, by a unanimous vote, have backed down from their platform and abandoned the doctrine
of Congressional prohibition.  This very week three Territorial Bills have been passed through
both Houses of Congress without the Wilmot proviso, and no man proposed to enact it; not even
one man on the other side of the Chamber would rise and propose the Wilmot proviso."

"In organizing three Territories," continued he, "two of them South of the very line where
they imposed the Wilmot proviso twelve years ago, no one on the other side of the Chamber proposed
it.  They have abandoned the doctrine of the President-elect upon that point.  He said, and
it is on record, that he had voted for the Wilmot proviso forty-two times, and would do it
forty-two times more if he ever had a chance.  Not one of his followers this year voted for
it once.  The Senator from New York (Mr. Seward) the embodiment of the Party, sat quietly and
did not propose it.  What more?  Last year we were told that the Slave Code of New Mexico was
to be repealed.  I denounced the attempted interference. The House of Representatives passed
the Bill, but the Bill remains on your table; no one Republican member has proposed to take
it up and pass it.  Practically, therefore, the Chicago platform is abandoned; the Philadelphia
platform is abandoned; the whole doctrine for which the Republican Party contended, as to the
Territories, is abandoned, surrendered, given up.  Non-intervention is substituted in its place.
Then, when we find that, on the Territorial question, the Republican Party, by a unanimous
vote, have surrendered to the South all they ask, the Territorial question ought to be considered
pretty well settled. The only question left was that of the States; and after having abandoned
their aggressive policy as to the Territories, a portion of them are willing to unite with
us, and deprive themselves of the power to do it in the States."

"I submit," said he, "that these two great facts--these startling, tremendous facts--that they
have abandoned their aggressive policy in the Territories, and are willing to give guarantees
in the States, ought to be accepted as an evidence of a salutary change in Public Opinion at
the North.  All I would ask now of the Republican Party is, that they would insert in the Constitution
the same principle that they have carried out practically in the Territorial Bills for Colorado,
Dakota, and Nevada, by depriving Congress of the power hereafter to do what there cannot be
a man of them found willing to do this year; but we cannot ask them to back down too much.
I think they have done quite as much within one year, within three months after they have elected
a President, as could be expected."

That Douglas and his followers were also patriotically willing to sacrifice a favorite theory
in the face of a National peril, was brought out, at the same time, by Mr. Baker, when he said
to Mr. Douglas: "I desire to suggest (and being a little of a Popular Sovereignty man, it comes
gracefully from me) that others of us have backed down too, from the idea that Congress has
not the power to prohibit Slavery in the Territories; and we are proposing some of us in the
Crittenden proposition, and some in the Amendment now before the Senate--to prohibit Slavery
by the Constitution itself, in the Territories;"--and by Mr. Douglas, when he replied: "I think
as circumstances change, the action of public men ought to change in a corresponding degree.
* * * I am willing to depart from my cherished theory, by an Amendment to the Constitution
by which we shall settle this question on the principles prescribed in the Resolutions of the
Senator from Kentucky."

     In the House, Mr. Logan, had, on the 5th of February, 1861, said:

     "Men, Sir, North and South, who love themselves far better than
     their Country, have brought us to this unhappy condition.  * * *
     Let me say to gentlemen, that I will go as far as any man in the
     performance of a Constitutional duty to put down Rebellion, to
     suppress Insurrection, and to enforce the laws; but when we
     undertake the performance of these duties, let us act in such a
     manner as will be best calculated to preserve and not destroy the
     Government, and keep ourselves within the bounds of the
     Constitution.  * * *  Sir, I have always denied, and do yet deny,
     the Right of Secession.  There is no warrant for it in the
     Constitution.  It is wrong, it is unlawful, unconstitutional, and
     should be called by the right name, Revolution.  No good, Sir, can
     result from it, but much mischief may.  It is no remedy for any
     grievance.

     "I hold that all grievances can be much easier redressed inside the
     Union than out of it.  * * *  If a collision must ensue between
     this Government and any of our own people, let it come when every
     other means of settlement has been tried and exhausted; and not
     then, except when the Government shall be compelled to repel
     assaults for the protection of its property, flag, and the honor of
     the Country.  * * *

     "I have been taught to believe that the preservation of this
     glorious Union, with its broad flag waving over us, as the shield
     for our protection on land and on sea, is paramount to all the
     Parties and platforms that ever have existed, or ever can exist.  I
     would, to-day, if I had the power, sink my own Party, and every
     other one, with all their platforms, into the vortex of ruin,
     without heaving a sigh or shedding a tear, to save the Union, or
     even stop the Revolution where it is."

     After enumerating the various propositions for adjustment, then
     pending in the House, to wit: that of Senator Crittenden; that of
     Senator Douglas; that of the Committee of Thirty-three; that of the
     Border States; and those of Representatives McClernand, Kellogg,
     and Morris, of Illinois, Mr. Logan took occasion to declare that
     "in a crisis like this" he was "willing to give his support to any
     of them," but his preference was for that of Mr. Morris.

     Said he: "He (Morris) proposes that neither Congress nor a
     Territorial Legislature shall interfere with Slavery in the
     Territories at all; but leaves the people, when they come to form
     their State Constitution, to determine the question for themselves.
     I think this is the best proposition, because it is a fair
     concession on all sides.  The Republicans give up their
     Congressional intervention; those who are styled 'Squatter
     Sovereigns' give up their Territorial legislative policy; and the
     Southern (Slave) protectionists give up their protection-
     intervention policy; thus every Party yields something.  With this
     proposition as an Article in the Constitution, it would satisfy
     every conservative man in this Union, both North and South, I do
     seriously and honestly believe.

     "Having indicated my preference of these propositions, and my
     reasons for that preference, I have said all I desire to say on the
     point, except to repeat again, that I will willingly vote for any
     of them, or make any other sacrifice necessary to save the Union.
     It makes no kind of difference to me what the sacrifice; if it will
     save my Country, I am ready to make it."  * * *

     "There are some in this Hall," said he, "that are almost ready to
     strike the Party fetters from their limbs, and assist in measures
     of Peace.  Halt not; take the step; be independent and free at
     once!  Let us overcome Party passion and error; allow virtue and
     good sense in this fateful hour to be triumphant; let us invoke
     Deity to interpose and prepare the way for our Country's escape
     from the perils by which we are now surrounded; and in view of our
     present greatness and future prospects, our magnificent and growing
     cities, our many institutions of learning, our once happy and
     prosperous People, our fruitful fields and golden forests, our
     enjoyment of all civil and religious blessings--let Parties die
     that these be preserved.  Such noble acts of patriotism and
     concession, on your part, would cause posterity to render them
     illustrious, and pause to contemplate the magnitude of the events
     with which they were connected.  * * * In the name of the patriotic
     sires who breasted the storms and vicissitudes of the Revolution;
     by all the kindred ties of this Country; in the name of the many
     battles fought for your Freedom; in behalf of the young and the
     old; in behalf of the Arts and Sciences, Civilization, Peace,
     Order, Christianity, and Humanity, I appeal to you to strike from
     your limbs the chains that bind them!  Come forth from that
     loathsome prison, Party Caucus; and in this hour--the most gloomy
     and disheartening to the lovers of Free Institutions that has ever
     existed during our Country's history--arouse the drooping spirits
     of our countrymen, by putting forth your good strong arms to assist
     in steadying the rocking pillars of the mightiest Republic that has
     ever had an existence."

     "Mr. Speaker," continued he, "a word or two more, and I am done.
     Revolution stalks over the Land.  States have rebelled against the
     constituted authorities of the Union, and now stand, sword in hand,
     prepared to vindicate their new nationality.  Others are preparing
     to take a similar position.  Rapidly transpiring events are
     crowding on us with fearful velocity.  Soon, circumstances may
     force us into an unnatural strife, in which the hand of brother
     shall be uplifted against brother, and father against son.  My God,
     what a spectacle!  If all the evils and calamities that have ever
     happened since the World began, could be gathered in one great
     Catastrophe, its horrors could not eclipse, in their frightful
     proportions, the Drama that impends over us.  Whether this black
     cloud that drapes in mourning the whole political heavens, shall
     break forth in all the frightful intensity of War, and make
     Christendom weep at the terrible atrocities that will be enacted
     --or, whether it will disappear, and the sky resume its wonted
     serenity, and the whole Earth be irradiated by the genial sunshine
     of Peace once more--are the alternatives which this Congress, in my
     judgment, has the power to select between."

In this same broad spirit, Mr. Seward, in his great speech of January 12th, had said: "Republicanism
is subordinate to Union, as everything else is and ought to be--Republicanism, Democracy, every
other political name and thing; all are subordinate-and they ought to disappear in the presence
of the great question of Union."  In another part of it, he had even more emphatically said:
"I therefore * * * avow my adherence to the Union in its integrity and with all its parts,
with my friends, with my Party, with my State, with my Country, or without either, as they
may determine, in every event, whether of Peace or War, with every consequence of honor or
dishonor, of life or death.  Although I lament the occasion, I hail with cheerfulness the duty
of lifting up my voice among distracted debates, for my whole Country and its inestimable Union."
And as showing still more clearly the kindly and conciliatory attitude of the great Republican
leader, when speaking of those others who seemed to be about to invoke revolutionary action
to oppose--and overthrow the Government--he said: "In such a case I can afford to meet prejudice
with Conciliation, exaction with Concession which surrenders no principle, and violence with
the right hand of Peace."

In the House of Representatives, too, the voice of patriotism was often heard through the loud
clamor and disorder of that most disorderly and Treason-uttering session--was heard from the
lips of statesmen, who rose high above Party, in their devotion to the Union.  The calm, dispassionate
recital by Henry Winter Davis (of Maryland), of the successive steps by which the Southern
leaders had themselves created that very "North" of whose antagonism they complained, was one
of the best of these, in some respects.  He was one of the great Select Committee of Thirty-three,
and it was (February 5th) after the Resolutions, heretofore quoted, had been reported by it,
that he condensed the history of the situation into a nutshell, as follows:

"We are at the end of the insane revel of partisan license which, for thirty years, has, in
the United States, worn the mask of Government. We are about to close the masquerade by the
dance of death.  The Nations of the World look anxiously to see if the People, ere they tread
that measure, will come to themselves.

         *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

"Southern politicians have created a North.  Let us trace the process and draw the moral.

"The laws of 1850 calmed and closed the Slavery agitation; and President Pierce, elected by
the almost unanimous voice of the States, did not mention Slavery in his first two Messages.
In 1854, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, at the instance of the South, reopened the
agitation.

"Northern men, deserted by Southern Whigs, were left to unite for self-defense.

"The invasion of Kansas, in 1855 and 1856, from Missouri; the making a Legislature and laws
for that Territory, by the invaders; still further united the Northern people.  The election
of 1856 measured its extent.

"The election of Mr. Buchanan and his opening policy in Kansas, soothed the irritation, and
was rapidly demoralizing the new Party, when the Pro-Slavery Party in Kansas perpetrated, and
the President and the South accepted, the Lecompton fraud, and again united the North more
resolutely in resistance to that invasion of the rights of self-government.

"The South for the first time failed to dictate terms; and the People vindicated by their votes
the refusal of the Constitution.

"Ere this result was attained, the opinions of certain Judges of the Supreme Court scattered
doubts over the law of Slavery in the Territories; the South, while repudiating other decisions,
instantly made these opinions the criterion of faithfulness to the Constitution; while the
North was agitated by this new sanction of the extremest pretensions of their opponents.

"The South did not rest satisfied with their Judicial triumph.

"Immediately the claim was pressed for protection by Congress to Slavery, declared by the Supreme
Court, they said, to exist in all the Territories.

"This completed the union of the Free States in one great defensive league; and the result
was registered in November.  That result is now itself become the starting point of new agitation--the
demand of new rights and new guarantees.  The claim to access to the Territories was followed
by the claim to Congressional protection, and that is now followed by the hitherto unheard
of claim to a Constitutional Amendment establishing Slavery, not merely in territory now held,
but in all hereafter held from the line of 36  30' to Cape Horn, while the debate foreshadows
in the distance the claim of the right of transit and the placing of property in Slaves in
all respects on the footing of other property--the topics of future agitation.  How long the
prohibition of the importation of Slaves will be exempted from the doctrine of equality, it
needs no prophet to tell.

"In the face of this recital, let the imputation of autocratic and tyrannical aspirations cease
to be cast on the people of the Free States; let the Southern people dismiss their fears, return
to their friendly confidence in their fellow-citizens of the North, and accept, as pledges
of returning Peace, the salutary amendments of the law and the Constitution offered as the
first fruits of Reconciliation."

But calmness, kindness, and courtesy were alike thrown away in both Houses upon the implacable
Southern leaders.  As the last day of that memorable session, which closed in the failure of
all peaceful measures to restore the Union, slowly dawned--with but a few hours lacking of
the time when Mr. Lincoln would be inaugurated President of the United States--Mr. Wigfall
thought proper, in the United States Senate, to sneer at him as "an ex-rail-splitter, an ex-grocery
keeper, an ex-flatboat captain, and an ex-Abolition lecturer"--and proceeded to scold and rant
at the North with furious volubility.

"Then, briefly," said he, "a Party has come into power that represents the antagonism to my
own Section of the Country.  It represents two million men who hate us, and who, by their votes
for such a man as they have elected, have committed an overt act of hostility.  That they have
done."

"You have won the Presidency," said he, to the Republicans, "and you are now in the situation
of the man who had won the elephant at a raffle. You do not know what to do with the beast
now that you have it; and one-half of you to-day would give your right arms if you had been
defeated. But you succeeded, and you have to deal with facts.  Our objection to living in this
Union, and therefore the difficulty of reconstructing it, is not your Personal Liberty bills,
not the Territorial question, but that you utterly and wholly misapprehend the Form of Government."

"You deny," continued he, "the Sovereignty of the States; you deny the right of self-government
in the People; you insist upon Negro Equality; your people interfere impertinently with our
Institutions and attempt to subvert them; you publish newspapers; you deliver lectures; you
print pamphlets, and you send them among us, first, to excite our Slaves to insurrection against
their masters, and next, to array one class of citizens against the other; and I say to you,
that we cannot live in peace, either in the Union or out of it, until you have abolished your
Abolition societies; not, as I have been misquoted, abolish or destroy your school-houses;
but until you have ceased in your schoolhouses teaching your children to hate us; until you
have ceased to convert your pulpits into hustings; until you content yourselves with preaching
Christ, and Him crucified, and not delivering political harangues on the Sabbath; until you
have ceased inciting your own citizens to make raids and commit robberies; until you have done
these things we cannot live in the same Union with you.  Until you do these things, we cannot
live out of the Union at Peace."

Such were the words--the spiteful, bitter words--with which this chosen spokesman of the South
saluted the cold and cloudy dawn of that day which was to see the sceptre depart from the hands
of the Slave Power forever.

                  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

"  To be sure, despite threats, neither few nor secret, which had been made, that he should
not live to be inaugurated, he had passed the first critical point--had taken the inaugural
oath--and was now duly installed in the White House.  That was something, of course, to be
profoundly thankful for.  But the matter regarded by him of larger moment--the safety of the
Union--how about that?

How that great, and just, and kindly brain, in the dim shadows of that awful first night at
the White House, must have searched up and down and along the labyrinths of history and "corridors
of time," everywhere in the Past, for any analogy or excuse for the madness of this Secession
movement--and searched in vain!

With his grand and abounding faith in God, how Abraham Lincoln must have stormed the very gates
of Heaven that night with prayer that he might be the means of securing Peace and Union to
his beloved but distracted Country!  How his great heart must have been racked with the alternations
of hope and foreboding--of trustfulness and doubt! Anxiously he must have looked for the light
of the morrow, that he might gather from the Press, the manner in which his Inaugural had been
received.  Not that he feared the North--but the South; how would the wayward, wilful, passionate
South, receive his proffered olive-branch?

Surely, surely,--thus ran his thoughts--when the brave, and gallant, and generous people of
that Section came to read his message of Peace and Good-will, they must see the suicidal folly
of their course!  Surely their hearts must be touched and the mists of prejudice dissolved,
so that reason would resume her sway, and Reconciliation follow!  A little more time for reflection
would yet make all things right.  The young men of the South, fired by the Southern leaders'
false appeals, must soon return to reason.  The prairie fire is terrible while it sweeps along,
but it soon burns out.  When the young men face the emblem of their Nation's glory--the flag
of the land of their birth--then will come the reaction and their false leaders will be hurled
from place and power, and all will again be right.  Yea, when it comes to firing on the old,
old flag, they will not, cannot, do it!  Between the Compromise within their reach, and such
Sacrilege as this, they cannot waver long.

So, doubtless, all the long night, whether waking or sleeping, the mind of this true-hearted
son of the West, throbbed with the mighty weight of the problem entrusted to him for solution,
and the vast responsibilities which he had just assumed toward his fellow-men, his Nation,
and his God.

And when, at last, the long lean frame was thrown upon the couch, and "tired Nature's sweet
restorer" held him briefly in her arms, the smile of hopefulness on the wan cheek told that,
despite all the terrible difficulties of the situation, the sleeper was sustained by a strong
and cheerful belief in the Providence of God, the Patriotism of the People, and the efficacy
of his Inaugural Peace-offering to the South. But alas, and alas, for the fallibility of human
judgment and human hopes! Instead of a message of Peace, the South chose to regard it as a
message of Menace;* and it was not received in a much better spirit by some of the Northern
papers, which could see no good in it--"no Union spirit in it"--but declared that it breathed
the spirit of Sectionalism and mischief, and "is the knell and requiem of the Union, and the
death of hope."

     ["Mr. Lincoln fondly regarded his Inaugural as a resistless
     proffering of the olive branch to the South; the Conspirators
     everywhere interpreted it as a challenge to War."--Greeley's Am.
     Conflict, vol. i., p. 428.]

Bitter indeed must have been President Lincoln's disappointment and sorrow at the reception
of his Inaugural.  With the heartiest forgiveness, in the noblest spirit of paternal kindness,
he had generously held out his arms, as far as they could reach, to clasp to his heart--to
the great heart of the Union--the rash children of the South, if they would but let him.

On the other hand, the President of the rebellious Confederacy, Jefferson Davis, had partly
constituted his Cabinet already, as follows: Robert Toombs, of Georgia, Secretary of State;
Charles G.  Memminger, of South Carolina, Secretary of the Treasury; Leroy Pope Walker, of
Alabama, Secretary of War; to whom he afterwards added: Stephen R. Mallory, of Florida, Secretary
of the Navy; and John H. Reagan, of Texas, Postmaster-General.

                               CHAPTER X.

                    THE WAR-DRUM "ON TO WASHINGTON"

Scarcely one week had elapsed after the Administration of Mr. Lincoln began, when (March 11th)
certain "Commissioners of the Southern Confederacy" (John Forsyth, of Alabama, and Martin J.
Crawford, of Georgia), appeared at Washington and served a written request upon the State Department
to appoint an early day when they might present to the President of the United States their
credentials "from the Government of the Confederate States of America" to the Government of
the United States, and open "the objects of the mission with which they are charged."

Secretary Seward, with the President's sanction, declined official intercourse with Messrs.
Forsyth and Crawford, in a "Memorandum"

     [President Lincoln's first Message, July 4, 1861.]

Lieutenant-General Winfield Scott concurred in that opinion, and as the provisions in the Fort
would be exhausted before any such force could be raised and brought to the ground, evacuation
and safe withdrawal of the Federal garrison from the Fort became a Military necessity, and
was so regarded by the Administration.

Owing to misconception or otherwise, an order to reinforce Fort Pickens was not carried out,
and an expedition to relieve Fort Sumter was then ordered to be dispatched.

A crisis was evidently approaching, and public feeling all over the Country was wrought up
to the highest degree of tension and stood tip-toe with intense expectancy.  The test of the
doctrine of Secession was about to be made there, in the harbor of Charleston, upon which the
eyes of Patriot and Rebel were alike feverishly bent.

There, in Charleston harbor, grimly erect, stood the octagon-shaped Fort Sumter, mid-way of
the harbor entrance, the Stars and Stripes proudly waving from its lofty central flagstaff,
its guns bristling on every side through the casemates and embrasures, as if with a knowledge
of their defensive power.

About equidistant from Fort Sumter on either side of the harbor-entrance, were the Rebel works
at Fort Moultrie and Battery Bee on Sullivan's Island, on the one side, and Cummings Point
Battery, on Morris Island, on the other-besides a number of other batteries facing seaward
along the sea-coast line of Morris Island.  Further in, on the same side of the harbor, and
but little further off from Fort Sumter, stood Fort Johnson on James Island, while Castle Pinckney
and a Floating Battery were between the beleagured Fort and the city of Charleston.

Thus, the Federal Fort was threatened with the concentrated fire of these well-manned Rebel
fortifications on all sides, and in its then condition was plainly doomed; for, while the swarming
Rebels, unmolested by Fort Sumter, had been permitted to surround that Fort with frowning batteries,
whose guns outnumbered those of the Fort, as ten to one, and whose caliber was also superior,
its own condition was anything but that of readiness for the inevitable coming encounter.

That the officers' quarters, barracks, and other frame-work wooden buildings should have been
permitted to remain as a standing invitation to conflagration from bombardment, can only be
accounted for on the supposition that the gallant officer in command, himself a Southerner,
would not believe it possible that the thousands of armed Americans by whom he was threatened
and encircled, could fire upon the flag of their own native Country.  He and his garrison of
seventy men, were soon to learn the bitter truth, amid a tempest of bursting shot and shell,
the furnace-heat of crackling walls, and suffocating volumes of dense smoke produced by an
uncontrollable conflagration.

The Rebel leaders at Washington had prevented an attack in January upon the forts in the harbor
of Charleston, and at Pensacola.--[McPherson's History of the Rebellion, p.  112.]--In consequence
of which failure to proceed to the last extremity at once, the energies of the Rebellion had
perceptibly diminished.

Said the Mobile Mercury: "The country is sinking into a fatal apathy, and the spirit and even
the patriotism of the people is oozing out, under this do-nothing policy.  If something is
not done pretty soon, decisive, either evacuation or expulsion, the whole country will become
so disgusted with the sham of Southern independence that the first chance the people get at
a popular election they will turn the whole movement topsy-turvy so bad that it never on Earth
can be righted again."

After the inauguration of Mr. Lincoln, however, the Rebel authorities at Montgomery lost no
time, but strained every nerve to precipitate War. They felt that there was danger to the cause
of Secession in delay; that there were wavering States outside the Confederacy, like Virginia,
that might be dragged into the Confederacy by prompt and bloody work; and wavering States within,
like Alabama, that must be kept in by similar means.  Their emissaries were busy everywhere
in the South, early in April, preaching an instant crusade against the old flag--inciting the
people to demand instant hostilities against Fort Sumter--and to cross a Rubicon of blood,
over which there could be no return.

Many of the Rebel leaders seemed to be haunted by the fear (no doubt well founded) that unless
blood was shed--unless an impassable barrier, crimsoned with human gore, was raised between
the new Confederacy and the old Union--there would surely be an ever-present danger of that
Confederacy falling to pieces.  Hence they were now active in working the people up to the
required point of frenzy.

As a specimen of their speeches, may be quoted that of Roger A. Pryor, of Virginia, who, at
Charleston, April 10, 1861, replying to a serenade, said:--[Charleston Mercury's report.]

'Gentlemen, I thank you, especially that you have at last annihilated this accursed Union [Applause]
reeking with corruption, and insolent with excess of tyranny.  Thank God, it is at last blasted
and riven by the lightning wrath of an outraged and indignant people.  [Loud applause.]  Not
only is it gone, but gone forever.  [Cries of, 'You're right,' and applause.] In the expressive
language of Scripture, it is water spilt upon the ground, which cannot be gathered up.  [Applause.]
Like Lucifer, son of the morning, it has fallen, never to rise again. [Continued applause.]

"For my part, gentlemen," he continued, as soon as he could be heard, "if Abraham Lincoln and
Hannibal Hamlin to-morrow were to abdicate their offices and were to give me a blank sheet
of paper to write the condition of re-annexation to the defunct Union, I would scornfully spurn
the overture.  * * *  I invoke you, and I make it in some sort a personal appeal--personal
so far as it tends to our assistance in Virginia--I do invoke you, in your demonstrations of
popular opinion, in your exhibitions of official intent, to give no countenance to this idea
of reconstruction.  [Many voices, emphatically, 'never,' and applause.]

"In Virginia," resumed he, "they all say, if reduced to the dread dilemma of this memorable
alternative, they will espouse the cause of the South as against the interest of the Northern
Confederacy, but they whisper of reconstruction, and they say Virginia must abide in the Union,
with the idea of reconstructing the Union which you have annihilated.  I pray you, gentlemen,
rob them of that idea.  Proclaim to the World that upon no condition, and under no circumstances,
will South Carolina ever again enter into political association with the Abolitionists of New
England.  [Cries of 'never,' and applause.]

"Do not distrust Virginia," he continued; "as sure as tomorrow's sun will rise upon us, just
so sure will Virginia be a member of this Southern Confederation.  [Applause.]  And I will
tell you, gentlemen, what will put her in the Southern Confederacy in less than an hour by
Shrewsbury clock--STRIKE A BLOW!  [Tremendous applause.]  The very moment that blood is shed,
old Virginia will make common cause with her sisters of the South.  [Applause.]  It is impossible
she should do otherwise."

The question of the necessity of "Striking a Blow"--of the immediate "shedding of blood"--was
not only discussed before the Southern people for the purpose of inflaming their rebellious
zeal, but was also the subject of excited agitation in the Confederate Cabinet at this time.

In a speech made by ex-United States Senator Clemens of Alabama, at Huntsville, Alabama, at
the close of the Rebellion, he told the Alabamians how their State, which, as we have seen,
was becoming decidedly shaky in its allegiance to the "Sham of Southern Independence," was
kept in the Confederacy.

Said he: "In 1861, shortly after the Confederate Government was put in operation, I was in
the city of Montgomery.  One day (April 11, 1861) I stepped into the office of the Secretary
of War, General Walker, and found there, engaged in a very excited discussion, Mr. Jefferson
Davis (the President), Mr. Memminger (Secretary of the Treasury), Mr. Benjamin (Attorney-General),
Mr. Gilchrist, a member of our Legislature from Loundes county, and a number of other prominent
gentlemen.  They were discussing the propriety of immediately opening fire on Fort Sumter,
to which General Walker, the Secretary of War, appeared to be opposed.

On the 8th of April, G. T. Beauregard, "Brigadier General Commanding" the "Provisional Army
C. S. A."  at Charleston, S. C., notified the Confederate Secretary of War (Walker) at Montgomery,
Ala., that "An authorized messenger from President Lincoln has just informed Gov. Pickens and
myself that provisions will be sent to Fort Sumter peaceably, or otherwise by force."  To this
Beauregard at once replied: "The demand will be made to-morrow at 12 o'clock."  Thereupon the
Confederate Secretary telegraphed again: "Unless there are special reasons connected with your
own condition, it is considered proper that you should make the demand at an earlier hour."
And Beauregard answered: "The reasons are special for 12 o'clock."

On the 11th General Beauregard notified Secretary Walker: "The demand was sent at 2 P. M.,
and until 6 was allowed for the answer."  Thereupon General Beauregard telegraphed Secretary
Walker: "He would not consent.  I write to-day."  And a later dispatch from General Beauregard
to Secretary Walker, April 12, laconically stated: "WE OPENED FIRE AT 4.30."

At last the hour and the minute had come, for which the Slave Power of the South had for thirty
years so impatiently longed.  At last the moment had come, when all the long-treasured vengeance
of the South --outgrown from questions of Tariff, of Slavery, and of Secession--was to be poured
out in blood and battle; when the panoplied powers and forces of rebellious confederated States,
standing face to face with the resolute patriotism of an outraged Union, would belch forth
flame and fury and hurtling missiles upon the Federal Fort and the old flag floating o'er it.

And whose the sacrilegious hand that dared be first raised against his Country and his Country's
flag?  Stevens's mortar battery at Sullivan's Island is ready to open, when a lean, long-haired
old man, with eyes blazing in their deep fanatical sockets, totters hastily forward and ravenously
seizing in his bony hands a lanyard, pulls the string, and, with a flash and roar, away speeds
the shrieking shell on its mission of destruction; and, while shell after shell, and shot after
shot, from battery after battery, screams a savage accompaniment to the boom and flash and
bellow of the guns, that lean old man works his clutched fingers in an ecstasy of fiendish
pleasure, and chuckles: "Aye, I told them at Columbia that night, that the defense of the South
is only to be secured through the lead of South Carolina; and, old as I am, I had come here
to join them in that lead--and I have done it."

     [Edmund Ruffin, see p.  100.  This theory of the necessity of South
     Carolina leading, had long been held, as in the following, first
     published in the New York Tribune, July 3, 1862, which, among other
     letters, was found in the house of William H.  Trescot, on
     Barnwell's Island, South Carolina, when re-occupied by United
     States troops:

     "VIRGINIA CONVENTION, May 3, 1851

     "My DEAR, SIR:--You misunderstood my last letter, if you supposed
     that I intended to visit South Carolina this Spring.  I am
     exceedingly obliged to you for your kind invitations, and it would
     afford me the highest pleasure to interchange in person, sentiments
     with a friend whose manner of thinking so closely agrees with my
     own.  But my engagements here closely confine me to this city, and
     deny me such a gratification.

     "I would be especially glad to be in Charleston next week, and
     witness the proceedings of your Convention of Delegates from the
     Southern Rights Associations.  The condition of things in your
     State deeply interests me.  Her wise foresight and manly
     independence have placed her, as the head of the South, to whom
     alone true-hearted men can look with any hope or pleasure.

     "Momentous are the consequences which depend upon your action.
     Which party will prevail?  The immediate Secessionists, or those
     who are opposed to separate State action at this time?  For my part
     I forbear to form a wish.  Were I a Carolinian, it would be very
     different; but when I consider the serious effects the decision may
     have on your future weal or woe, I feel that a citizen of a State
     which has acted as Virginia, has no right to interfere, even by a
     wish.

     "If the General Government allows you peaceably and freely to
     Secede, neither Virginia, nor any other Southern State, would, in
     my opinion, follow you at present.  But what would be the effect
     upon South Carolina?  Some of our best friends have supposed that
     it would cut off Charleston from the great Western trade, which she
     is now striking for, and would retard very greatly the progress of
     your State.  I confess that I think differently.  I believe
     thoroughly in our own theories, and that, even if Charleston did
     not grow quite as fast in her trade with other States, yet the
     relief from Federal taxation would vastly stimulate your
     prosperity.  If so, the prestige of the Union would be destroyed,
     and you would be the nucleus for a Southern Confederation at no
     distant day.

     "But I do not doubt, from all I have been able toe to learn that the
     Federal Government would use force, beginning with the form most
     embarrassing to you, and least calculated to excite sympathy.  I
     mean a naval blockade.  In that event, could you stand the reaction
     feeling which the suffering commerce of Charleston would probably
     manifest?  Would you not lose that in which your strength consists,
     the union of your people?  I do not mean to imply an opinion, I
     only ask the question.

     "If you could force this blockade, and bring the Government to
     direct force, the feeling in Virginia would be very great.  I trust
     in God it would bring her to your aid.  But it would be wrong in me
     to deceive you by speaking certainly.  I cannot express the deep
     mortification I have felt at her course this Winter.  But I do not
     believe that the course of the Legislature is a fair expression of
     popular feeling.  In the East, at least, the great majority
     believes in the right of Secession, and feels the deepest sympathy
     with Carolina in her opposition to measures which they regard as
     she does.  But the West--Western Virginia--there is the rub!  Only
     60,000 slaves to 494,000 whites!  When I consider this fact, and
     the kind of argument which has been heard in this body, I cannot
     but regard with the greatest fear the question whether Virginia
     would assist Carolina in such an issue.

     "I must acknowledge, my dear sir, that I look to the future with
     almost as much apprehension as hope.  You well object to the term
     Democrat.  Democracy, in its original philosophical sense, is
     indeed incompatible with Slavery and the whole system of Southern
     society.  Yet, if you look back, what change will you find made in
     any of your State Constitutions, or in our legislation--that is, in
     its general course--for the last fifty years, which was not in the
     direction of this Democracy?  Do not its principles and theories
     become daily more fixed in our practice?  (I had almost said in the
     opinions of our people, did I not remember with pleasure the great
     improvement of opinion in regard to the abstract question of
     Slavery).  And if such is the case, what are we to hope in the
     future?  I do not hesitate to say that if the question is raised
     between Carolina and the Federal Government, and the latter
     prevails, the last hope of republican government, and, I fear, of
     Southern civilization, is gone.  Russia will then be a better
     government than ours.

     "I fear that the confusion and interruptions amid which I write
     have made this rather a rambling letter.  Do you visit the North in
     the Summer?  I would be very happy to welcome you to the Old
     Dominion.

     "I am much obliged to you for the offer to send me Hammond's Eulogy
     on Calhoun, but I am indebted to the author for a copy.

               "With esteem and friendship, yours truly,

                                   "M. R. H. GARNETT.

     "WM. H. TRESCOT, ESQ."]

Next morning's New York herald, in its Charleston dispatch of April 12, announced to the World
that "The first shot [fired at Fort Sumter] from Stevens's battery was fired by the venerable
Edmund Ruffin, of Virginia," and added, "That ball will do more for the cause of Secession,
in Virginia, than volumes of stump speeches."

"Soon," says Greeley in his History, "the thunder of fifty heavy breaching cannon, in one grand
volley, followed by the crashing and crumbling of brick, stone, and mortar around and above
them, apprized the little garrison that their stay must necessarily be short."

Says an eye-witness of the bombardment: "Shells burst with the greatest rapidity in every portion
of the work, hurling the loose brick and stone in all directions, breaking the windows and
setting fire to whatever woodwork they burst against.  * * *  The firing from the batteries
on Cumming's Point was scattered over the whole of the gorge or rear of the Fort, till it looked
like a sieve.  The explosion of shells, and the quantity of deadly missiles that were hurled
in every direction and at every instant of time, made it almost certain death to go out of
the lower tier of casemates, and also made the working of the barbette or upper (uncovered)
guns, which contained all our heaviest metal, and by which alone we could throw shells, quite
impossible.

"During the first day there was hardly an instant of time that there was a cessation of the
whizzing of balls, which were sometimes coming half a dozen at once.  There was not a portion
of the work which was not taken in reverse from mortars.  * * *  During Friday, the officers'
barracks were three times set on fire by the shells and three times put out under the most
galling and destructive cannonade.

"For the fourth time, the barracks were set on fire early on Saturday morning, and attempts
were made to extinguish the flames; but it was soon discovered that red-hot shot were being
thrown into the Fort with fearful rapidity, and it became evident that it would be impossible
to put out the conflagration.  The whole garrison was then set to work, or as many as could
be spared, to remove the powder from the magazines, which was desperate work, rolling barrels
of powder through the fire.  * * *  After the barracks were well on fire, the batteries directed
upon Fort Sumter increased their cannonading to a rapidity greater than had been attained before."

"About this time, the shells and ammunition in the upper service-magazines exploded, scattering
the tower and upper portions of the building in every direction.  The crash of the beams, the
roar of the flames, and the shower of fragments of the Fort, with the blackness of the smoke,
made the scene indescribably terrific and grand.  This continued for several hours.  * * * "

"There was not a portion of the Fort where a breath of air could be got for hours, except through
a wet cloth.  The fire spread to the men's quarters on the right hand and on the left, and
endangered the powder which had been taken out of the magazines.  The men went through the
fire, and covered the barrels with wet cloths, but the danger of the Fort's blowing up became
so imminent that they were obliged to heave the barrels out of the embrasures."

Major Anderson's official report tells the whole story briefly and well, in these words:

               "STEAMSHIP BALTIC, OFF SANDY HOOK

               "April 18, 1861, 10.30 A.M., VIA NEW YORK.

"Having defended Fort Sumter for thirty-four hours, until the quarters were entirely burnt,
the main gates destroyed by fire, the gorge walls seriously injured, the magazine surrounded
by flames, and its door closed from the effects of heat; four barrels and three cartridges
of powder only being available, and no provisions remaining but pork, I accepted terms of evacuation
offered by General Beauregard--being the same offered by him on the 11th inst., prior to the
commencement of hostilities--and marched out of the Fort on Sunday afternoon, the 14th instant,
with colors flying and drums beating, bringing away company and private property, and saluting
my flag with fifty guns.

                         "ROBERT ANDERSON,
                    "Major 1st Artillery, Commanding.

"HON. SIMON CAMERON, "Secretary of War, Washington."

During all this thirty-four hours of bombardment, the South rejoiced with exceeding great joy
that the time had come for the vindication of its peculiar ideas of State and other rights,
even though it be with flames and the sword.  At Charleston, the people were crazy with exultation
and wine-feasting and drinking being the order of the day and night.  But for the surrender,
Fort Sumter would have been stormed that Sunday night.  As it was, Sunday was turned into a
day of general jubilation, and while the people cheered and filled the streets, all the Churches
of Charleston celebrated, with more or less devotional fervor and ceremony, the bloodless victory.

At Montgomery, the Chiefs of the Confederate Government were serenaded. "Salvos of artillery
were fired, and the whole population seemed to be in an ecstasy of triumph."--[McPherson's
History of the Rebellion, p. 114]

The Confederate Secretary of War, flushed with the success, predicted that the Confederate
flag "will, before the first of May, float over the dome of the old Capitol at Washington"
and "will eventually float over Faneuil Hall, in Boston."

From Maryland to Mexico, the protests of Union men of the South were unheard in the fierce
clamor of "On to Washington!"

The Richmond Examiner said: "There never was half the unanimity among the people before, nor
a tithe of the zeal upon any subject, that is now manifested to take Washington.  From the
mountain tops and valleys to the shores of the sea, there is one wild shout of fierce resolve
to capture Washington City at all and every human hazard."

So also, the Mobile Advertiser enthusiastically exclaimed:

"We are prepared to fight, and the enemy is not.  Now is the time for action, while he is yet
unprepared.  Let the fife sound 'Gray Jackets over the Border,' and let a hundred thousand
men, with such arms as they can snatch, get over the border as quickly as they can.  Let a
division enter every Northern border State, destroy railroad connection to prevent concentration
of the enemy, and the desperate strait of these States, the body of Lincoln's country, will
compel him to a peace--or compel his successor, should Virginia not suffer him to escape from
his doomed capital."

It was on Friday morning, the 12th of April, as we have seen, that the first Rebel shot was
fired at Fort Sumter.  It was on Saturday afternoon and evening that the terms of surrender
were agreed to, and on Sunday afternoon that the Federal flag was saluted and hauled down,
and the surrender completed.

While in the North the official responses to this Call for troops were prompt and patriotic,
in the Border and Slave States, not yet in Rebellion, they were anything but encouraging.

The reply of Governor Burton, of Delaware, was by the issue of a proclamation "recommending
the formation of volunteer companies for the protection of the lives and property of the people
of Delaware against violence of any sort to which they may be exposed; the companies not being
subject to be ordered by the Executive into the United States service--the law not vesting
him with such authority--but having the option of offering their services to the General Government
for the defense of its capital and the support of the Constitution and laws of the Country."

Governor Hicks, of Maryland, in like manner, issued a proclamation for Maryland's quota of
the troops, but stated that her four regiments would be detailed to serve within the limits
of Maryland--or, for the defense of the National Capital.  You have chosen to inaugurate Civil
War, and having done so, we will meet it in a spirit as determined as the Administration has
exhibited toward the South."  I will reply more in detail when your Call is received by mail."
The demand is only adding insult to injury."

Discouraging and even insulting as were most of these replies, the responses of the Governors
of the Free States were, on the other hand, full of the ring of true martial Patriotism evoked
by the fall of Sumter and the President's first call for troops.  Twenty millions of Northern
hearts were stirred by that Call, as they had never before been stirred. Party and faction
became for the moment, a thing of the past.

The Governors of the Free States made instant proclamation for volunteers, and the People responded
not by thousands but by hundreds of thousands.  New York, the Empire State, by her Governor
and her Legislature placed all her tremendous resources at the service of the Union; and the
great State of Pennsylvania, through Governor Curtin, did the same.  Nor were the other States
at all behind.

The Loyal North felt that Law, Order, Liberty, the existence of the Nation itself was in peril,
and must be both saved and vindicated.  Over half a million of men--from the prairies of the
West and the hills and cities of the East--from farms and counting houses, from factories and
mines and workshops--sprang to arms at the Call, and begged to be enrolled.  The merchants
and capitalists throughout the North proffered to the Government their wealth and influence
and best services.  The press and the people responded as only the press and people of a Free
land can respond--with all their heart and soul.  "Fort Sumter," said one of the journals,
"is lost, but Freedom is saved.  Henceforth, the Loyal States are a unit in uncompromising
hostility to Treason, wherever plotted, however justified.  Fort Sumter is temporarily lost,
but the Country is saved.  Live the Republic!"

This, in a nutshell, was the feeling everywhere expressed, whether by the great crowds that
marched through the streets of Northern cities with drums beating and banners flying--cheering
wildly for the Union, singing Union songs, and compelling those of doubtful loyalty to throw
out to the breeze from their homes the glorified Stars and Stripes--by the great majority of
newspapers--by the pulpit, by the rostrum, by the bench, by all of whatever profession or calling
in Northern life.  For the moment, the voice of the Rebel-sympathizer was hushed in the land,
or so tremendously overborne that it seemed as if there was an absolute unanimity of love for
the Union.

Of course, in Border-States, bound to the South by ties of lineage and intermarriage and politics
and business association, the feeling could not be the same as elsewhere.  There, they were,
so to speak, drawn both ways at once, by the beckoning hands of kindred on the one side, and
Country on the other!  Thus they long waited and hesitated, praying that something might yet
happen to save the Union of their fathers, and prevent the shedding of brothers' blood, by
brothers-hoping against hope-waited, in the belief that a position of armed neutrality might
be permitted to them; and grieved, when they found this could not be.

Each side to the great Conflict-at-arms naturally enough believed itself right, and that the
other side was the first aggressor; but the judgment of Mankind has placed the blame where
it properly belonged--on the shoulders of the Rebels.  The calm, clear statement of President
Lincoln, in his July Message to Congress, touching the assault and its preceding history--together
with his conclusions--states the whole matter in such authentic and convincing manner that
it may be said to have settled the point beyond further controversy. On the evening of the
following day several companies of a Pennsylvania Regiment reported for duty in Washington.
On the 18th, more Pennsylvania Volunteers, including a company of Artillery, arrived there.

On the 19th of April, the Sixth Massachusetts Regiment--whose progress through New York city
had been triumphal-was suddenly and unexpectedly assailed, in its passage through Baltimore,
to the defense of the National Capital, by a howling mob of Maryland Secessionists--worked
up to a pitch of States-rights frenzy by Confederate emissaries and influential Baltimore Secession-sympathizers,
by news of the sudden evacuation of the Federal Arsenal at Harper's Ferry, and other exciting
tidings--and had to fight its way through, leaving three soldiers of that regiment dead, and
a number wounded, behind it.

     [At a meeting of the "National Volunteer Association," at Monument
     Square, Baltimore, the previous evening, says Greeley's History of
     the American Conflict, page 462, "None of the speakers directly
     advocated attacks on the Northern troops about to pass through the
     city; but each was open in his hostility to 'Coercion,' and
     ardently exhorted his hearers to organize, arm and drill, for the
     Conflict now inevitable.  Carr (Wilson C. N. Carr) said: 'I do not
     care how many Federal troops are sent to Washington; they will soon
     find themselves surrounded by such an army from Virginia and
     Maryland, that escape to their homes will be impossible; and when
     the 75,000 who are intended to invade the South shall have polluted
     that soil with their touch, the South will exterminate and sweep
     them from the Earth.' (Frantic cheering and yelling).  The meeting
     broke up with stentorian cheers for 'the South' and for 'President
     Davis."']

Ten companies of Philadelphia troops, reaching Baltimore at the same time, unarmed, were also
violently assailed by the crazy mob, and, after a two hours' fight, reached the cars and returned
to Philadelphia.

Washington City--already, by the Secession of Virginia, cut off from the South--was thus practically
cut off from the North as well; and to isolate it more completely, the telegraph wires were
cut down and the railroad bridges burned.  A mere handful of regulars, the few volunteers that
had got through before the outbreak in Baltimore, and a small number of Union residents and
Government department clerks--these, under General Winfield Scott, constituted the paltry force
that, for ten days after the Call for troops, held the National Capital.

Informed, as the Rebels must have been, by their swarming spies, of the weakness of the Federal
metropolis, it seems absolutely marvelous that instant advantage was not taken of it.

The Richmond Examiner, of April 23d, said: "The capture of Washington City is perfectly within
the power of Virginia and Maryland, if Virginia will only make the effort with her constituted
authorities; nor is there a single moment to lose.  * * *  The fanatical yell for the immediate
subjugation of the whole South is going up hourly from the united voices of all the North;
and, for the purpose of making their work sure, they have determined to hold Washington City
as the point whence to carry on their brutal warfare.  Our people can take it--they will take
it--and Scott, the arch-traitor, and Lincoln, the Beast, combined, cannot prevent it.  The
just indignation of an outraged and deeply injured people will teach the Illinois Ape to repeat
his race and retrace his journey across the borders of the Free Negro States still more rapidly
than he came.  * * *  Great cleansing and purification are needed and will be given to that
festering sink of iniquity, that wallow of Lincoln and Scott--the desecrated city of Washington;
and many indeed will be the carcasses of dogs and caitiff that will blacken the air upon the
gallows before the great work is accomplished.  So let it be!"

But despite all this fanfaronade of brutal bluster, and various movements that looked somewhat
threatening, and this complete isolation for more than a week from the rest of the World, the
city of Washington was not seized by the Rebels, after all.

This nervous condition of affairs, however, existed until the 25th--and to General Benjamin
F. Butler is due the chief credit of putting an end to it.  It seems he had reached the Susquehanna
river at Perryville, with his Eighth Massachusetts Regiment on the 20th--the day after the
Sixth Massachusetts had been mobbed at Baltimore--and, finding his further progress to Washington
via Baltimore, barred by the destruction of the bridge across the Susquehanna, etc., he at
once seized a large ferry steamer, embarked his men on her, steamed down the river and Chesapeake
Bay to Annapolis, the capital of Maryland, took possession of the frigate Constitution, the
Naval Academy, and the city itself, gathered supplies, and being reinforced by the arrival
by water of the famous New York Seventh, and other regiments, repaired the branch railroad
to Annapolis Junction (on the main line of railroad between Baltimore and Washington), and
transferred his column from thence, by cars, on the 25th, to the National Capital--soon thereafter
also taking military possession of Baltimore, which gave no further trouble to the Union Cause.
In the meantime, however, other untoward events to that Cause had happened.

Two days after the Call for troops, the Virginia Convention (April 17th) secretly voted to
Secede from the Union.  An expedition of Virginia troops was almost at once started to capture
the Federal Arsenal at Harper's Ferry, which, as has already been intimated, was evacuated
hastily on the night of the 18th, by the handful of Union regulars garrisoning it, after a
futile effort to destroy the public property and stores it held.  Another expedition was started
to seize the Federal Navy Yard at Norfolk--a rich prize, containing as it did, between 2,000
and 3,000 pieces of heavy ordnance (300 of them Dahlgrens), three old line-of-battle ships
and a number of frigates, including the Cumberland and the fine forty-gun steam frigate Merrimac,
together with thousands of kegs of powder and immense stores of other munitions of war, and
supplies--that had cost in all some $10,000,000.  Without an enemy in sight, however, this
fine Navy Yard was shamefully evacuated, after partly scuttling and setting fire to the vessels--the
Cumberland alone being towed away--and spiking the guns, and doing other not very material damage.

So also, in North Carolina, Rebel influence was equally active.  On the 20th of April Governor
Ellis seized the Federal Branch Mint at, Charlotte, and on the 22d the Federal Arsenal at Fayetteville.
A few days thereafter his Legislature authorized him to tender to Virginia --which had already
joined the Confederacy--or to the Government of the Confederate States itself, the volunteer
forces of North Carolina.  And, although at the end of January the people of that State had
decided at the polls that no Secession Convention be held, yet the subservient Legislature
did not hesitate, on demand, to call one together which met in May and ordained such Secession.

Thus, by the end of May, 1861, the Confederacy had grown to comprise nine instead of seven
States, and the Confederate troops were concentrating on Richmond--whither the Rebel Government
was soon to remove, from Montgomery.

By this time also not only had the ranks of the regular Union Army been filled and largely
added to, but 42,000 additional volunteers had been called out by President Lincoln; and the
blockade of the Southern ports (including those of Virginia and North Carolina) that had been
proclaimed by him, was, despite all obstacles, now becoming effectual and respected.

Washington City and its suburbs, by the influx of Union volunteers, had during this month become
a vast armed camp; the Potomac river had been crossed and the Virginia hills (including Arlington
heights) which overlooked the Federal Capital, had been occupied and fortified by Union troops;
the young and gallant Colonel Ellsworth had been killed by a Virginia Rebel while pulling down
a Rebel flag in Alexandria; and General Benjamin F. Butler, in command at Fortress Monroe,
had by an inspiration, solved one of the knottiest points confronting our armies, by declaring
of three Negroes who had fled from their master so as to escape working on Rebel fortifications,
that they should not be returned to that master--under the Fugitive Slave Law, as demanded
by a Rebel officer with a flag of truce--but were confiscated "property," and would be retained,
as "contraband of war."

It was about this time, too, that the New Orleans Picayune fell into line with other unscrupulous
Rebel sheets, by gravely declaring that: "All the Massachusetts troops now in Washington are
Negroes, with the exception of two or three drummer boys.  General Butler, in command, is a
native of Liberia.  Our readers may recollect old Ben, the barber, who kept a shop in Poydras
street, and emigrated to Liberia with a small competence.  General Butler is his son."  Little
did the writer of that paragraph dream how soon New Orleans would crouch at the very feet of
that same General!

And now, while the armed hosts on either side are assembling in hostile array, or resting on
their arms, preliminary to the approaching fray of battle, let us glance at the alleged causes
underlying this great Rebellion against the Union.

