It was indeed not so much emotion as a sense that in other circumstances these things might
have aroused an emotion which, with his comprehensive greed of all that was lovely in the universe,
he regretted being without. If he had only been with her now he would have been given that,
and would have found, like her, that it is possible to be ardently in love with an unknown
person. She was so sorry he was not here. But she knew that he would come soon, and then he
would have the joy of seeing his true child, the child of his soul, and beyond the spiritual
joy that must come of that relationship he would have the delight of the exquisite being she
knew she was going to bring forth. For she knew then perfectly what Richard was going to be
like. She knew she was going to have a son; she knew that he would have black, devout and sensitive
eyes. She knew that he would be passionate and intractable and yet held to nobility by fastidiousness
and love of her. She imagined how some day in a wood like this, but set in a kinder countryside,
Harry would kneel in a sunlit clearing, his special quality of gaiety playing about him like
another kind of sunshine, while there staggered towards him their beautiful dark child. He
would miss nothing then, except this time of acquaintance with the unborn, and perhaps he would
not even miss that, for no doubt he would make her the mother of other children.

At that thought she stood still and leaned back against the trunk of a tree and closed her
eyes and smiled triumphantly, and ran her hands down her body, planning that it should perform
this miracle again and again and people her world with lovely, glowing, disobedient sons and
daughters. She felt her womb as an inexhaustible treasure. Slowly, swimmingly, in a golden
drowse of exultation, she moved on among the trees till she came to the wood's end, and looked
across the waste patch scattered with knots of bramble and gorse at the yellow brick backs
of the houses in Roothing High Street and knew she must go no further. For the feeling against
her was very high in the village. They had told the most foul stories of her; it was as if
they had been waiting anxiously for an excuse to talk of sexual things that they might let
loose the unclean fantasies that they had kept tied up in the stables of their mind, that these
might meet in the streets and breed, and take home litters filthier than themselves. Men and
women told tales that they could not have believed simply that they might evoke before their
minds, and strengthened by the vital force of the listeners' hot-eared excitement, pictures
of a strong man and a fine girl living like beasts in the fields. Not only did they tell lies
of how they had watched her and Harry among the bracken, they said she had been seduced by
the young doctor who had been locum tenens here in February, and that they had seen her in
the lanes with the two lads that were being tutored at the Vicarage. These things had been
repeated to her by her grandmother in order that she might know what disgrace she had brought
on her family, and in the night she had often lain in a sweat of rage, wanting to kill these
liars. But that day, standing in the sunshine, she forgave them. She was glad that they had
such brave yellow sunflowers in their little wood-fenced gardens: she hoped that all the women
would sometimes be as happy as she was. She did not know that this was no day for her to venture
forth and forgive her enemies, since it was the Lord's Day, when men ceased to do any manner
of work, that they may keep it holy.

