In answer to Philpot's knock, the door was opened by a little girl about seven years old, who
at once recognized Philpot, and called out his name to her mother, and the latter came also
to the door, closely followed by two other children, a little, fragile-looking girl about three,
and a boy about five years of age, who held on to her skirt and peered curiously at the visitors.
Mrs Newman was about thirty, and her appearance confirmed the statement of Philpot that she
had only just recovered from an illness; she was very white and thin and dejected-looking.
When Philpot explained the object of their visit and handed her the money, the poor woman burst
into tears, and the two smaller children--thinking that this piece of paper betokened some
fresh calamity--began to cry also.  They remembered that all their troubles had been preceded
by the visits of men who brought pieces of paper, and it was rather difficult to reassure them.

That evening, after Frankie was asleep, Owen and Nora went out to do their Christmas marketing.
They had not much money to spend, for Owen had brought home only seventeen shillings.  He had
worked thirty-three hours--that came to nineteen and threepence--one shilling and threehalfpence
had gone on the subscription list, and he had given the rest of the coppers to a ragged wreck
of a man who was singing a hymn in the street.  The other shilling had been deducted from his
wages in repayment of a 'sub' he had had during the week.

There was a great deal to be done with this seventeen shillings. First of all there was the
rent--seven shillings--that left ten. Then there was the week's bread bill--one and threepence.
They had a pint of milk every day, chiefly for the boy's sake--that came to one and two.  Then
there was one and eight for a hundredweight of coal that had been bought on credit.  Fortunately,
there were no groceries to buy, for the things they had obtained with their Christmas Club
money would be more than sufficient for the ensuing week.

Frankie's stockings were all broken and beyond mending, so it was positively necessary to buy
him another pair for fivepence three-farthings.  These stockings were not much good--a pair
at double the price would have been much cheaper, for they would have lasted three or four
times longer; but they could not afford to buy the dearer kind.  It was just the same with
the coal: if they had been able to afford it, they could have bought a ton of the same class
of coal for twenty-six shillings, but buying it as they did, by the hundredweight, they had
to pay at the rate of thirty-three shillings and fourpence a ton.  It was just the same with
nearly everything else.  This is how the working classes are robbed.  Although their incomes
are the lowest, they are compelled to buy the most expensive articles--that is, the lowest-priced
articles.  Everybody knows that good clothes, boots or furniture are really the cheapest in
the end, although they cost more money at first; but the working classes can seldom or never
afford to buy good things; they have to buy cheap rubbish which is dear at any price.

Six weeks previously Owen bought a pair of second-hand boots for three shillings and they were
now literally falling to pieces.  Nora's shoes were in much the same condition, but, as she
said, it did not matter so much about hers because there was no need for her to go out if the
weather were not fine.

In addition to the articles already mentioned, they had to spend fourpence for half a gallon
of paraffin oil, and to put sixpence into the slot of the gas-stove.  This reduced the money
to five and sevenpence farthing, and of this it was necessary to spend a shilling on potatoes
and other vegetables.

They both needed some new underclothing, for what they had was so old and worn that it was
quite useless for the purpose it was supposed to serve; but there was no use thinking of these
things, for they had now only four shillings and sevenpence farthing left, and all that would
be needed for toys.  They had to buy something special for Frankie for Christmas, and it would
also be necessary to buy something for each of the children who were coming to the party on
the following Monday. Fortunately, there was no meat to buy, for Nora had been paying into
the Christmas Club at the butcher's as well as at the grocer's.  So this necessary was already
paid for.

They stopped to look at the display of toys at Sweater's Emporium. For several days past Frankie
had been talking of the wonders contained in these windows, so they wished if possible to buy
him something here. They recognized many of the things from the description the boy had given
of them, but nearly everything was so dear that for a long time they looked in vain for something
it would be possible to buy.

'That's the engine he talks so much about,' said Non, indicating a model railway locomotive;
that one marked five shillings.'

'It might just as well be marked five pounds as far as we're concerned,' replied Owen.

As they were speaking, one of the salesmen appeared at the back of the window and, reaching
forward, removed the engine.  It was probably the last one of the kind and had evidently just
been sold.  Owen and Nora experienced a certain amount of consolation in knowing that even
if they had the money they would not have been able to buy it.

After lengthy consideration, they decided on a clockwork engine at a shilling, but the other
toys they resolved to buy at a cheaper shop. Nora went into the Emporium to get the toy and
whilst Owen was waiting for her Mr and Mrs Rushton came out.  They did not appear to see Owen,
who observed that the shape of one of several parcels they carried suggested that it contained
the engine that had been taken from the window a little while before.

When Nora returned with her purchase, they went in search of a cheaper place and after a time
they found what they wanted.  For sixpence they bought a cardboard box that had come all the
way from Japan and contained a whole family of dolls--father, mother and four children of different
sizes.  A box of paints, threepence: a sixpenny tea service, a threepenny drawing slate, and
a rag doll, sixpence.

On their way home they called at a greengrocer's where Owen had ordered and paid for a small
Christmas tree a few weeks before; and as they were turning the corner of the street where
they lived they met Crass, half-drunk, with a fine fat goose slung over his shoulder by its
neck. He greeted Owen jovially and held up the bird for their inspection.

'Not a bad tanner's-worth, eh?' he hiccoughed.  'This makes two we've got.  I won this and
a box of cigars--fifty--for a tanner, and the other one I got out of the Club at our Church
Mission 'all: threepence a week for twenty-eight weeks; that makes seven bob.  But,' he added,
confidentially,''you couldn't buy 'em for that price in a shop, you know.  They costs the committee
a good bit more nor that--wholesale; but we've got some rich gents on our committee and they
makes up the difference,' and with a nod and a cunning leer he lurched off.

