There is another Coprinus, the radiating Coprinus, C. radiatus, so called from the radiating
folds on the cap, that may carry off the honor of being the shortest-lived of all the membrane
fungi. Stevenson says “it withers up with a breath.” It is often overlooked, as it perishes
after sunrise. It grows in troops, and is perhaps the most tender of all mushrooms.

The genus Marasmius, belonging to the white spored Agarics, has the power of reviving under
moisture after withering, so it may represent a genus that endures longest. None of the fleshy
fungi have long lives.

USES.

Besides the uses of fungi as scavengers of creation, there are some which have a commercial
value and yield an article called “amadou.” This is a French word, used for a sort of tinder
or touch-wood, an inflammable substance which is prepared from a fungus,[1] Boletus igniarius,
and grows upon the cherry, ash and other trees. It is made by steeping it in a strong solution
of saltpetre and cutting it in small pieces. It is also called German tinder. Thomé says that
Boletus laricis and Polyporus fomentarius yield the “amadou” of commerce. Then, again, the
birch Polyporus, P. betulinus, is used for razor strops. We need not say anything on the uses
of fungi as articles of food. This subject has been exhausted by many able mycologists, and,
excepting the mere mention of some mushrooms that are edible, the authors have abstained from
this part of the subject.

  [Footnote 1: Worcester’s Dictionary, citing Brande.]

HABITAT.

It is interesting to observe where different mushrooms love to dwell. Some are always found
on roadsides, as if seeking the notice of passers-by. These are the Clitocybes and Stropharia,
and many of the cup-fungi, while the Boleti take shelter in clay banks and hide in every cranny
and nook that they can find. Russulas are seen in open woods, rising out of the earth, also
the Lactarius, which seems to like the shade of trees. The Cortinarius also prefers their shelter.
The Coprinus loves the pastures and fields, near houses and barns, and dwells in groups upon
the lawns. The Hypholoma grows in clusters on the stumps of trees. Marasmius is found among
dead twigs and leaves. The white Amanitas flourish in woods and open ground. There are some,
like Pleurotus, that grow in trunks of trees, and make their way through openings in the bark.
Every dead tree or branch in the forest is crowded with all species of Polyporus, while carpets,
damp cellars, plaster walls and sawdust are favorite abodes of many fungi.

STRUCTURE AND GROWTH.

Mushrooms consist wholly of cells. These cells do not contain either starch or the green coloring-matter,
called chlorophyll, which exists in other plants. They are either parasites or scavengers,
and sometimes both. The food of fungi must form a part of some animal or plant. When they commence
to grow it is by the division of cells, not laterally, but in one direction, upward. As the
mushroom grows the stem lengthens, the cap expands and bursts the veil that surrounds it, and
gradually gains its perfect shape.

Every mushroom has a spore-bearing layer of cells, which is called the hymenium. This hymenium
is composed of a number of swollen, club-shaped cells, called basidia, and close to them, side
by side, are sterile, elongated cells, named paraphyses. In the family called Hymenomycetes
there are mixed with these, and closely packed together, one-celled sterile structures named
cystidia.

The basidia are called mother-cells because they produce the spores.

There is one great group of fungi called Basidiomycetes, so named from having their stalked
spores produced on basidia.

The basidia are formed on the end of threadlike branched bodies which grow at the apex, and
are called hyphæ. On top of the basidia are minute stalk-like branches, called sterigmata (singular
sterigma), and each branch carries a naked spore. They are usually four in number. This group
of Basidiomycetes is divided into (1) Stomach fungi (Gasteromycetes), (2) Spore sac fungi (Ascomycetes),
and (3) Membrane fungi (Hymenomycetes).

MYCELIUM.

The Mycelium is commonly called the spawn of mushrooms.

It is the vegetative part of the fungus, and is composed of minute, cylindrical, thread-like
branching bodies called hyphæ. When we wish to cultivate mushrooms we plant the spawn not the
spores. The thread-like branches permeate the earth or whatever the mushroom grows upon. The
color of the mycelium is generally white, but it may also be yellow or red. Its structural
details are only visible through a microscope.

Every fungus does not bear the spores exposed upon the cap nor underneath it. The first group
of Gasteromycetes, or “Stomach fungi,” as Professor Peck has called them in his work on “Mushrooms
and Their Uses,” have the spore-bearing surface enclosed in a sac-like envelope in the interior
of the plant. The genus Lycoperdon belongs to this group, and it contains the puff-balls so
common in this country.

In the second group, Ascomycetes, or “Spore sac fungi,” the spores are produced in delicate
sacs called asci. The fruit-bearing part is often cup-shaped, disc-like, or club-shaped, thicker
at the top or covered with irregular swellings and depressions like the human brain.

The Morels and Helvellas belong to this group. One often meets with mushrooms of the former
genus in the spring, and they are striking and interesting looking fungi. There are many of
both genera that are edible. They will be described in detail later.

Botanists have classified Agarics by means of the color of the spores, and it is the only sure
way of determining to what class they belong. We propose in this work also to enumerate the
mushrooms according to the color of the pileus or cap, and give a list, with a description
of each, after this arrangement. This, of course, is merely superficial, but may interest and
attract a beginner in the study of fungi. This list will be placed at the end of the book.

The descriptions will be preceded by a classification according to color of spores, some hints
to students, and aids to learning which have been found useful to others.

It is appalling to a beginner when he first reads the long list of names of classes, genera,
and species, as the latter are so closely allied in resemblance. One has not always the time
nor inclination to condense facts for himself, nor to collect necessary information so as to
remember it most easily, all which has to be done in the absence of an American manual or textbook.
A great deal has been written for us, it is true, by experienced botanists, but a general and
comprehensive work has yet to be compiled.

Before we begin our list of fungi, let us learn what a mushroom is, and know something of its
component parts. A mushroom consists of a stem and a cap, or pileus. The cap is the most conspicuous
part. The color varies from white and the lightest hues of brown up to the brightest yellow
and scarlet. Its size is from an eighth of an inch to sixteen inches and more in diameter.
The surface is smooth or covered with little grains (granular) or with minute scales (squamulose)
shining like satin, or kid-like in its texture. It may be rounded and depressed (concave),
elevated (convex), level (plane), or with a little mound in the centre (umbonate). It may be
covered with warts, marked with lines (striate), or zoned with circles. The margin may be acute
or obtuse, rolled backward or upward (revolute), or rolled inward (involute); it may be thick
or thin.

THE STEM.

The stem is the stalk that supports the cap. It is sometimes attached to one side, and then
it is said to be lateral or between the centre and side, and it is called eccentric; when it
is in the middle, or nearly so, it is central.

It is either solid, fleshy, stuffed with pith, or hollow, fibrous, firm and tough (cartilaginous).
It is often brittle and breaks easily, or it will not divide evenly in breaking. Its color
and size both vary, like the cap. It may taper toward the base, or toward the apex, be even
or cylindrical. Its surface may be smooth (glabrous), covered with scales (squamulose), rough
(scabrous), dotted, lacerated, or be marked with a network of veins (reticulated). The base
may be bulbous, or only swollen (incrassated), and it may root in the ground.

THE GILLS.

The gills or lamellæ are the radiating parts, like knife blades, that extend from the centre
to the margin underneath the cap. They contain the spores. The group of mushrooms that have
gills are called Agaracini or Agarics. The gills vary in color; sometimes they change color
when mature. When they are close together they are called crowded, and when far apart distant.
There are often smaller gills between the others, and sometimes they are two-forked (bifurcate),
and are connected by veins.

They are narrow or wide, swell out in the middle (ventricose), are curved like a bow (arcuate),
and have a sudden wave or sinus in the edge near the stem (sinuate).

There are various modes of attachment to the stem. Where the gills are not attached to it they
are called free; slightly so, adnexed; and when wholly fastened they are adnate. They may run
down on the stem, and are then called decurrent.

THE SPORES.

The color of the spores can be seen by cutting off the cap, and laying it gills downward, on
a sheet of paper, two or three hours or more. The impression will remain on the paper. It is
better to use blue paper, so that the white spores can be seen more clearly. The Agarics are
divided into classes according to the color of the spores, so it is of great importance to
examine them. The shape and size of the spores can only be learned by the use of a microscope.
We have not attempted in this elementary work to do more than mention them.

THE VOLVA AND VEIL.

The universal veil or volva is a thin covering which encloses the entire young plant. The cap
grows and expands and bursts this veil into fragments. That part of the veil which breaks away
from the cap, called the secondary veil, forms the annulus or ring. It resembles a collar,
and is generally fastened to the stem. It is not always permanent or fixed in one place. It
may disappear when the plant is mature. It is often fragile, loose and torn, and sometimes
is movable on the stem.

The name volva is particularly given to that part of the universal veil which remains around
the base of the stem, either sheathing it or appressed closely to it, or in torn fragments.
The volva and ring, or annulus, are not always present in mushrooms. The rupture of the veil
often causes a part of it to remain on the cap in the shape of warts or scales. These may disappear
as the plant grows older, and are sometimes washed off by a heavy rain.

THE TUBES OR PORES.

There is a group of fungi called Polyporei, which have tubes or pores instead of gills. They
are placed under the pileus just as the gills are situated, and contain the spores. The length
of the tubes varies. The mouths or openings are also of different shapes and sizes. They are
sometimes round, and at other times irregular. The color of the mouths is often different from
the tubes, and changes when mature. The mouths, too, are sometimes stuffed when young. The
attachment to the pileus is to be noted. They may be free or easily detached, depressed around
the stem or fastened to it (adnate.)

CLASSIFICATION OF FUNGI.

The color of both gills and tubes is an important feature in the classification of fungi.

We have now arrived at a point where the amateur may become wearied at the reading of long
names and the enumeration of classes and genera. Stevenson has said in his preface to his work
on British Fungi that “there is no royal road to the knowledge of fungi,” and if we become
enough interested to pursue the subject we will probably discover it at this point. We will
try and make this part as simple as possible, and only mention those genera which are most common.

Mushrooms may be divided into three great classes:

I. Gasteromycetes, or “Stomach fungi,” where the spores are produced within the plant.

II.

III. Hymenomycetes, or “Membrane fungi,” where the spores are produced on the lower surface
of the cap.

CLASS III. HYMENOMYCETES, OR MEMBRANE FUNGI.

This class is divided into six orders:

1. Gill-bearing mushrooms, Agarics, or Agaricini.

2. Fungi with pores or tubes, Polyporei.

3. Fungi with awl-shaped teeth or spines, Hydnei.

4. Fungi with an even spore-bearing or slightly wrinkled surface, Thelephorei.

5. Plants, club-shaped and simple, or bush-like and branched, Clavariei.

6. Gelatinous plants, irregularly expanded, Tremellinei.

The first order, the Agarics, contains most of the well-known mushrooms, as well as most of
the edible ones. They have been divided into different classes according to the color of the
spores. In a great many cases the color is the same as that of the gills; but this is not always
the case, especially in the young plants. The Agarics are divided into four sections:

1. White spores, Leucosporæ.

2. Rosy, salmon or pinkish spores, Rhodosporæ.

3. Brown or ochraceous spores, Ochrosporæ.

4. Dark purplish or black spores, Melanosporæ.

There are an infinite number of mushrooms we shall not mention. The study of fungi has only
begun in this country, and there is an immense vista for future students. The amateur or beginner
may be well satisfied if after one summer spent in studying mushrooms he can remember the distinguishing
types of the various genera, and can say with certainty, “This is a Russula, or this a Cortinarius,
or this a Tricholoma.” He will then feel he has taken one important step in this “royal road.”

DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERISTICS OF GENERA OF HYMENOMYCETES.

ORDER 1. AGARICS.

The names of the genera are all derived from Greek and Latin words. Stevenson, in his book
on British Fungi, has given the original words and also their meanings. We take the liberty
of copying the English term only, and will place it beside the name of each genus.

SECTION 1. WHITE SPORES, OR LEUCOSPORÆ.

The first genus we will mention is:

+HYGROPHORUS, from a word meaning moist.+

This genus contains plants growing on the ground. They soon decay. The cap is sticky or watery,
the gills often branched. It has a peculiarity in the fact that the hymenial cells, or the
layer of mother cells, contained in the gills, change into a waxy mass, at length removable
from the trama. The trama is that substance which extends with and is like in structure to
the layer of mother cells.[1] It lies between the two layers of gills in Agarics. The gills
seem full of watery juice, and they are more or less decurrent, i. e., extend down the stem.
This genus contains many bright-colored and shining species.

  [Footnote 1: In the young plant it forms the framework of the gills.]

We are obliged to refer to the hymenial layer in this place, though the beginner will scarcely
understand the meaning of the term. The distinguishing peculiarity of this genus consists in
the cells changing to a waxy mass. In the chapter on the structure of mushrooms we have tried
to explain something about the cells and the Hymenium.

+LACTARIUS = milk.+

This genus is fleshy, growing on the ground; the cap is often depressed in the centre. The
gills are adnato-decurrent, that is, partly attached and prolonged down the stem. They are
waxy, rather rigid and acute at the edge. The distinctive feature is the milk that flows when
the gills are cut. Sometimes the milk changes color.

+RUSSULA = red.+

This genus grows on the ground, is fleshy, and soon decays. The cap is depressed, or becomes
so at a later stage of growth. The stem is polished, generally white, and is very brittle.
The gills are rigid, fragile, with an acute edge, and mostly equal in length. Some species
exude watery drops. It contains many species of beautiful colors.

+CANTHARELLUS = vase or cup.+

The principal characteristic of this genus consists in the fold-like nature of its gills. The
gills are thick, with an obtuse edge, and are branched and decurrent. The genus is fleshy,
soft, and putrescent, and has no veil. Some plants grow on the ground and others on mosses.

+MARASMIUS = to wither.+

The genus is tough and dry, not decaying, but shrivelling, and reviving when wet. The stem
is tough (cartilaginous.) The gills are rather distant, the edge acute and entire. The plants
often have a peculiar smell and taste, like garlic. They are small and thin, commonly growing
on the outside of another plant (epiphytal) on the ground, on putrid leaves, or on roots of
grasses.

+AMANITA.+

The origin of this name is doubtful. Galen, an ancient Greek physician, is said to have given
the name to some edible fungi (Stevenson). It is distinguished as the only genus that has both
volva and ring. The young plant is enveloped by a universal veil which bursts at maturity.
The volva around the base of the stem is formed by the splitting or bursting of the veil, and
its different modes of rupture mark the several species. It is sometimes shaped very prettily,
and has the appearance of a cup around the stem. It contains many poisonous as well as edible
mushrooms.

+LEPIOTA = a scale.+

This genus has a universal veil. The gills are free. Sometimes the ring, or annulus, is movable
on the stem. The cap is often covered with warts, or the skin torn into scales, and the stem
sometimes inserted in a cup or socket.

+ARMILLARIA = ring or bracelet.+

There is no universal veil in this genus, only a partial one that forms a ring, or sometimes
only indicating the ring by scales. The species usually grow on the ground.

+TRICHOLOMA = from two Greek words, hair and fringe.+

This genus is especially noted for its sinuate gills. They have a tooth next to the stem. All
grow on the ground and are fleshy. There are sometimes fibrils which adhere to the margin of
the cap, the remains of the veil. There are no plants in this genus that are considered poisonous.

+CLITOCYBE = a declivity.+

The gills in this genus are attenuated behind and are attached to stem (adnate) or run down
it (decurrent.) The cap is generally plano depressed or funnel-shaped (infundibuliform). Some
are fragrant; the odor resembles fresh apricots.

+COLLYBIA = a small coin.+

The stem in this genus is tough or stuffed with a pith, and covered with a cartilaginous rind.
The margin of the cap is smooth and turned under at first (involute). The gills are soft, free,
or only adnexed behind. The plants grow on the outside of wood and leaves, even on fungi, but
are often rooted on the ground, and do not dry up. The gills are sometimes brightly colored.

+MYCENA = a fungus.+

In this genus also the stem is cartilaginous, the cap is sometimes bell-shaped (campanulate)
and slender. The plants are generally small and fragile. The cap is from ⅛ to 1½ inch broad.
The stem is sometimes filiform, and they grow on stumps and sticks, dead wood, twigs and leaves.
They may be found early in the season, but oftener from August to November.

+OMPHALIA = depressed.+

The stem in this genus is cartilaginous. The gills run down the stem. The cap is somewhat membranaceous.
It is oftener depressed and funnel-shaped. The gills are often branched. The species grow in
moist places. The plants are generally small. The largest only measure 2 inches, the smallest
only ½ inch across the cap.

+PLEUROTUS = side and an ear.+

In this genus the stem is sometimes wanting, or it grows on the side, or between the centre
and margin (eccentric). The plants rarely grow on the ground. They are irregular and fleshy
or membranaceous. The time of growth is generally in the autumn. There are a few edible species.

SECTION 2. RHODOSPORÆ, RED OR PINK SPORES.

In this section of Agarics the spores are red, pink, or salmon color.

+PLUTEUS = a penthouse.+

This genus has neither volva nor ring. The gills are rounded behind and free, entirely separate
from stem, white, then flesh-colored, but often tinged with yellow. The cuticle is sometimes
covered with fibres, or with a bloom upon it (pruinose). The apex of the stem is inserted in
the cap like a peg, and in this it resembles the Lepiotas. The species grow on or near trunks,
appear early, and last until late in the season.

+ENTOLOMA = within and fringe.+

This genus resembles Tricholoma, which belongs to the white-spored Agarics and Hebeloma, which
is rosy-spored. The species grow on the ground, and are found chiefly after rain. The stem
is fleshy or fibrous, soft, sometimes waxy. The cap has the margin incurved, the gills have
a tooth (sinuate), and are adnexed to the stem. Some species smell of fresh meal.

SECTION 3. OCHROSPORÆ, BROWN OR OCHRACEOUS SPORES.

+CORTINARIUS = a veil.+

This genus has a veil resembling a cobweb. The gills generally become cinnamon-colored. They
grow on the ground in woods, during late summer and autumn. Some of our most beautiful mushrooms
belong to this group. The veil is not persistent, and soon disappears.

+PHOLIOTA = a scale.+

This genus mostly grows on trunks. The partial or secondary veil takes the form of a ring.
The cap is often covered with scales.

+INOCYBE = fibre and head.+

This genus is distinguished by the silky fibrilose covering of the cap, which never has a distinct
pellicle, and by the veil which is lasting and of like nature to the fibrils of the cap. All
grow upon the ground.

+HEBELOMA = youth and fringe.+

In this genus the margin of the cap is at first incurved. The gills are attached with a tooth,
with the edge more or less of a different color, often whitish. The stem is fleshy, fibrous,
somewhat mealy at the apex. They grow on the ground and are strong-smelling, appear early in
the autumn, and continue until late in the season.

+PAXILLUS = a small stake.+

This genus is fleshy, putrescent; at first the cap has the margin turned under (involute),
then it unfolds gradually and dilates. There are some species of both Tricholoma and Clitocybe
that resemble it. The gills separate easily from the cap, and in this it is similar to the
Boleti, where the tubes separate also with ease.

SECTION 4. MELANOSPORÆ, DARK PURPLE OR BLACK SPORES.

+PSALLIOTA = a ring or collar.+

The common mushroom Agaricus campestris belongs to this group. The gills are rounded behind
and free, the stem has a collar. There are many edible mushrooms in this genus. They grow in
pastures, and the larger ones are called Champignons. In former times when one spoke of eating
mushrooms the species A. campestris, or campester, was always the one denoted.

+STROPHARIA = a sword belt.+

This genus has a ring. The gills are generally attached to the stem; some species grow on the
ground, and some grow on other fungi. They are sometimes bell-shaped and then flattened, often
with a mound or umbo.

+HYPHOLOMA = web and fringe.+

The veil in this genus is woven in a web which adheres to the margin of the cap. The cap is
more or less fleshy, and the margin at first incurved. The gills are attached or have a tooth.
There is no ring. The plants grow in tufts on wood, or at the base of trees in the autumn.

+PSILOCYBE = naked and head.+

The cap in this genus is fleshy, smooth, and the margin at first incurved. Gills turn dusky
purple. The stem is cartilaginous, hollow or stuffed. No veil is visible. They grow on the ground.

+PSATHYRA = friable.+

The cap is conical and soft, the margin at first straight, and then pressed to the stem. The
plants are slender, fragile and moist. Gills become purple. They grow on the ground, or on
trunks of trees.

+COPRINUS = dung.+

In this genus the spores are black. It has two distinctive features: one, that the gills cohere
at first, and are not separated when young; and the other, that they dissolve into an inky
fluid. The gills are also scissile, that is, they can be split, and are linear and swollen
in the middle. The plants last but a short time. Some are edible.

ORDER 2. POLYPOREI, OR TUBE-BEARING FUNGI.

We now pass to the next order, the Polyporei. We will mention four genera:

+BOLETUS.+

The name is that of a fungus much prized for its delicacy by the Romans, and is derived from
a Greek word meaning a clod, which denotes the round figure of the plant.

The Boleti grow on the ground, are fleshy and putrescent with central stems. The tubes are
packed closely together and are easily separated.

+FISTULINA = a pipe.+

In this genus the tubes are free and distinct from one another. They are somewhat fleshy and
grow upon wood.

+POLYPORUS = many pores.+

The pores or tubes in this genus are not separate from one another. They are persistent fungi,
most of them growing upon wood.

+DAEDALEA = curiously wrought.+

The name of this genus is derived from Daedalus, who constructed the labyrinth at Crete, in
which the monster Minotaur was kept. It was one of the seven wonders of the world.

These fungi grow on wood, and become hard. The pores are firm when fully grown; they are sinuous
and labyrinthine.

ORDER 3. HYDNEI, OR SPINE-BEARING FUNGI.

The name is derived from a word meaning a spine. This order contains many genera, two of which
we will mention, Hydnum and Tremellodon.

+HYDNUM.+

Hydnum is derived from a Greek word, the name of an edible fungus. The plants in this genus
are furnished with spines or teeth, instead of gills or tubes, and these contain the spores.
The species are divided according to the stem. In some it is central and grows on the ground,
in others it is lateral, and the cap is semicircular (dimidiate), and others again have no
stem. There are some species that have no cap, and the spines are either straight or oblique.
There are a few that are edible, but generally they have a bitter taste. However, some writers
say that Hydnum repandum, or the spreading Hedgehog, is “delicious.” This mushroom and the
one named “Medusa’s head,” H. caput Medusæ, are perhaps the most conspicuous of the order.
The latter is very large. Its color is at first white, then becoming ashy gray. The spines
on the upper surface are twisted, while the lower ones are long and straight. It grows on trunks
of trees. In the spreading Hydnum the margin of the cap is arched and irregular. It grows on
the ground.

+TREMELLODON = jelly and a tooth.+

The fungi in this genus are gelatinous. The cap is nearly semicircular in shape, sometimes
fan-shaped and rounded in front. The spines or teeth are soft, white and delicate. We found
one specimen in the month of September in the mountains of the State of New York.

ORDER 4. THELEPHOREI, OR EVEN SURFACE FUNGI.

In this order the lower surface of the cap is smooth and even, or slightly wrinkled. It is
divided into several genera, only two of which we will enumerate, Craterellus and Stereum.

+CRATERELLUS = a bowl.+

The species called the “horn of plenty,” Craterellus cornucopioides, belongs to this genus,
and is often found. Stevenson says it is common. It is trumpet-shaped (tubiform). The cap is
of a dingy black color, and the stem is hollow, smooth, and black. We found quite a small specimen,
the pileus not more than 1½ inch broad, but it may measure 3 inches. The spore-bearing surface
was of an ash color. The margin of the cap was wavy, and it was hollow right through to the
base. It was only 2 inches high, and there was scarcely any stem.

+STEREUM = hard.+

The genus Stereum is woody and leathery in nature, somewhat zoned, and looks like some Polyporci.
It grows on wood, on stumps, and on dead wood.

ORDER 5. CLAVARIEI, OR CLUB FUNGI.

This order contains several genera, but one only will be mentioned, that of Clavaria.

+CLAVARIA = club.+

The common name often given to this genus is “Fairy Clubs.” We have described several species
in our list of fungi, and will only say that these are fleshy fungi, either simple or branched.
The expression fleshy, so often met with in these pages, is used in speaking of plants when
they are succulent and composed of juicy, cellular tissue. They do not become leathery. In
the genus Clavaria the fungi have no caps, but they have stems. There are a few edible species.
One can scarcely walk any distance without seeing some species of Clavaria. They are conspicuous,
sometimes attractive looking, and interesting in their variety.

The genus Cortinarius, one of the order of Agarics, has been already described, but it contains
so many species that it deserves especial mention.

They are difficult to define. The genus has been subdivided by botanists into tribes which
it may be well to enumerate. We have followed Stevenson’s arrangement.

He divides Cortinarius into six tribes.

1. Phlegacium = clammy moisture. In this tribe the cap is fleshy and sticky (viscous), while
the stem is firm and dry. In all Cortinarii the gills become cinnamon-colored. There are many
large-sized mushrooms in this tribe, the cap sometimes measuring 6 inches across.

2. Myxacium = mucous. This tribe has the stem sticky (viscous), and the universal veil is glutinous.
The cap is fleshy but thin. Gills attached to stem and decurrent.

3. Inoloma = fibre and fringe. It contains distinguished species. The cap is at first silky,
with innate scales or fibrils, is equally fleshy and dry. The stem is fleshy and rather bulbous.

4. Dermocybe = skin and head. The cap and stem are both thinner in this tribe than in Inoloma.
The pileus becomes thin when old, and is dry, not moist. It is at first silky. The color of
the gills is changeable, which makes it hard to distinguish the species.

5. Telamonia = lint. Pileus moist; at first smooth or sprinkled with superficial whitish fibres
of the veil. Flesh thin, or becoming so abruptly at the margin; the veil is somewhat double,
which is a distinguishing characteristic of this tribe.

6. Hygrocybe = moist and head. Cap in this tribe is smooth or only covered with white superficial
fibrils, not gluey, but moist when fresh, and changing color when dry. Flesh thin.

CLASS I. GASTEROMYCETES, OR STOMACH FUNGI.

The Basidia-bearing fungi, or Basidiomycetes, are divided into three classes, as has been already
stated. The third class, Hymenomycetes, or Membrane fungi, has been described, but there remain
two other groups of which we will now speak more fully. They may be considered too difficult
for beginners, and we would not venture to enter further into the subject were it not that
some of the most familiar fungi belong to these classes--such as Puff-balls, Morels, and Helvellas.

The first class, called the Gasteromycetes, or Stomach fungi, matures its spores on the inside
of the plant. The distinction between this class and that of the Membrane fungi, which ripens
its spores on the outside, may be more readily understood by one familiar with the structure
of the fig, whose flowers are situated on the interior of its pear-shaped, hollow axis, which
is the fruit.

We will divide the Stomach fungi into four orders--1, the thick-skinned fungi (Sclerodermæ);
2, the Bird’s-nest fungi (Nidulariæ); 3, the Puff-balls (Lycoperdons); 4, the Stink horns (Phalloidæ.)

ORDER 1. SCLERODERMÆ, THE THICK-SKINNED FUNGI.

Our attention will be confined to only one genus, and, indeed, one species of this family.
We often see in our walks what at a first glance look like potatoes lying along the road, and
the suggestion arises that some careless boy has been losing potatoes from his basket on his
way home from the country store. We stoop to pick them up, and find them rooted to the ground
and covered with warts and scales. We cut them open and find them a purplish-black color inside.
It is a mass of closely packed unripe spores. In a few days the upper part of the outside covering
decays, bursts open, and the ripe spores escape. This is called the common hard-rind fungus,
or Scleroderma vulgare.

ORDER 2. NIDULARIÆ, THE BIRD’S-NEST FUNGI.

This is again divided into three genera. The Crucible (crucibulum), the Cup (Cyathus), the
Bird’s-nest proper (Nidularia.)

We often find on a wood-pile or a fallen tree some of the members of the Bird’s-nest family.
It is fascinating to examine them in their various stages of development. First we see a tiny
buff knot, cottony in texture and closely covered; next, another rather larger, with its upper
covering thrown aside, displaying the tiny eggs, which prompts one to look around for the miniature
mother bird; then we find a nest empty with the fledglings flown. The characteristic that distinguishes
the Bird’s-nest fungi from others consists in the fact that the spores are produced in small
envelopes that do not split open, and which are enclosed in a common covering, called the peridium.
One species is known by the fluted inside of the covering, which is quite beautiful. They are
all small and grow in groups.

ORDER 3. LYCOPERDONS, THE PUFF-BALLS.

The Lycoperdons contain several genera, among which we select the Puff-balls proper and the
Earth stars.

What child is there who lives in the country and does not know the Puff-ball? With what gusto
he presses it and watches what he calls the smoke pouring from the chimney. Indeed, the outpouring
of myriads of spores in its ripe stage does suggest smoke from a chimney. The puff-ball, when
young, is of a firm texture, nearly round, grayish, or brownish outside, but of a pure white
within. There are several genera, but we have selected two--1, Lycoperdon; and 2, Earth Star,
or Geaster.

+LYCOPERDON = the puff-ball.+

The puff-balls vary greatly in size, the smallest measure ½ inch up to the largest, about 15
inches. Professor Peck describes them thus: “Specimens of medium size are 8 to 12 inches in
diameter. The largest in the State Museum is about 15 inches in the dry state. When fresh it
was probably 20 inches or more. The color is whitish, afterward yellowish or brownish. The
largest size was called the Giant Puff-ball (Calvatia bovista).”

+GEASTER = the earth star.+

These vary greatly in size. The small ones grow on pine needles on the ground or among leaves.
Some are mounted on pedicels, some are sessile or seated directly on the earth, but the family
likeness is so pronounced that even the novice need not be doubtful as to the name of the fungus
when found. There are two species that have slender, elongated stems. The name is well chosen.
In moist weather the points expand and roll back or lie flat on the earth. Then the round puff-ball
in the centre is plainly seen.

In dry weather the star-like divisions are rigidly turned in and cover closely the round portion.
“When dry it is sometimes rolled about by the wind; when it is wet by the rain or abundant
dew it absorbs the moisture and spreads itself out, and rests from its journey, again to take
up its endless wandering as sun and rain appear to reduce it once more to a ball and set it
rolling.” (Underwood.)

ORDER 4. PHALLOIDS, THE STINK HORN FUNGI.

We come now to the fourth and last order of the Stomach fungi (Gasteromycetes) that we shall
mention. In spite of their appellation these fungi are strikingly beautiful, but their odor
is most offensive. They grow in woods, and are also found in cellars. Their history has been
carefully investigated by mycologists, and the novice will find many beautiful illustrations
in various works. In their early stage they are enclosed in an egg-shaped veil (volva), having
a gelatinous inner layer. Some are bright-colored, others are pure white, and the stems of
one species look as if covered with lace work. The most familiar one, Phallus impudicus, “the
fetid wood witch,” we have placed in the list of fungi at the end of this book, with its description.

CLASS II. ASCOMYCETES, OR SPORE SAC FUNGI.

This is the second division of the Basidia-bearing fungi. It includes all the fungi that have
the spores enveloped in delicate sacs called asci. It is divided into several orders, but we
will only mention the one which contains the most familiar plants. This order is named the
Disc-like fungi (Discomycetes). In this the spore-bearing surface is on the upper or outside
surface of the mushroom cap. It is divided into many genera, of which we shall mention three--the
Cup fungi, or Pezizas, the Morels or Morchellas, and the Yellowish fungi or Helvellas.

+PEZIZAS = the Cup fungi.+

These form a very large group, mostly growing on decaying plants. They are typically disc-shaped
or cup-shaped, and when young are closed or nearly so, opening when mature. They vary in size
from minute species to large fleshy ones, 3 to 4 inches in diameter. They are generally small,
thin, and tough. They grow on twigs, leaves, dead wood, or on the ground. Many are stemless.
They are both solitary and densely clustered. The color varies from pale brown to a dark gray,
resembling, when moist, india-rubber cloth, and then, again, there are many of brilliant hues--red
and orange. Some are erect, some are split down at the side like the ear of a hare. The Cup
fungi are found in August and September, growing near ditches, and by the roadside where there
is moisture. The ear-shaped Pezizas somewhat resemble the Jew’s ear, and the beginner might
easily confound them. This latter fungus belongs to the third class of membrane fungi (Hymenomycetes),
and it is included in the descriptions of fungi.

+THE MORELS or MORCHELLAS = the honey-combed fungi.+

The collector during the months of April and May will enjoy a new experience when he first
finds a fungus of a bright brown color, deeply pitted, spongy looking, cone-shaped or nearly
round; its head supported on an erect, white stem. He will probably find it on a grassy hillside
or along a running brook under some forest trees. He has perhaps seen its picture and at once
exclaims, “my first Morel.” He will notice its peculiar honey-combed depression, and then cutting
it open will find both the head and the stem hollow. Where are the spores? There are no gills
as in the Agarics, nor are they concealed in a covering (peridium), as in the Puff-balls, but
they are contained in delicate sacs on the cap. The exterior surface of the cap is the spore-bearing
portion, and the spores are developed in their sacs, but only seen under a microscope.

+HELVELLA = the yellowish mushroom.+

This genus may be readily recognized by the form of the cap, which is lobed and irregularly
waved and drooping, often attached to the stem. They grow on the ground in the woods, and sometimes
on rotten wood. The genus comprises the largest of the Disc fungi known, some species weighing
over a pound. Cicero mentions the Helvellas as a favorite dish of the Romans.

+THE TRUFFLE = delicacy.+

