  So when the great Prussian Statistics Bureau
  Proscribes Latin letters and says they must go,
  They are giving a lead which we earnestly hope
  Will be followed beyond its original scope;
  For the more German books that in Gothic are printed
  The more will the spread of Hun "genius" be stinted,
  And the larger the number, released from its gripe,
  Of the students of Latin ideas--and type.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Furniture for Poultry: 2 easy chairs, solid walnut frames, nicely
    upholstered and sound, 12/6 each; also 2 armchairs, 4 small chairs,
    walnut frames, nicely upholstered and sound, £2; 5 other chairs,
    upholstered in tapestry and leather, 5/- each."--The Bazaar.

Has this sort of thing Mr. PROTHERO'S approval? Some hens are already too much inclined to
sit when we want them to lay.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TIPINBANOLA.

"There," I said, "you've interrupted me again."

"Tut tut," said Francesca.

"And the dogs are barking," I said, "and the guinea-hens are squawking."

"I daresay," she said; "but you can't hear the guinea-hens; they're much too far away."

"Yes, but I know they're squawking--they always are--and for a sensitive highly-strung man
it's the same thing."

"Tut-t----"

"Tut me no more of your tuts, Francesca," I said, "for I am engaged in a most complicated and
difficult arithmetical calculation."

"If," said Francesca deliberately, "two men in corduroys, with straps below their knees, and
a boy in flannel shorts, all working seven hours and a half per day for a week, can plant five
thousand potatoes on an acre of land, how many girls in knickerbockers will be required to----"

"Stop, Francesca," I said, "or I shall go mad."

"If," she continued inexorably, "a train travelling at the rate of sixty-two miles and three-quarters
in an hour takes two and a half seconds to pass a lame man walking in the same direction find
how many men with one arm each can board a motor-bus in Piccadilly Circus, having first extracted
the square root of the wheel-base."

"Stow it," I said.

"Isn't that rude?" she said.

"Yes," I said; "it was intended to be."

"Well, but what are you doing?"

"I'm calculating rates of percentage on the new War Loan," I said.

"Why worry over that?" she said. "It announces itself as a five-per-center, and I'm willing
to take it at its word. What's your difficulty? Surely you do not impute prevarication to the
CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER."

"No," I said, "far from it. I have the greatest possible respect for him. I'm sure he would
not deceive a poor investor; but he doesn't know my difficulties. It's this getting £100 by
paying only £95 that's knocking me sideways; and then there's the income tax, and the other
loan at four per cent., on which no income tax is to be charged, and the conversion of the
old four-and-a-half per cent. War Loan, and of the various lots of Exchequer Bonds. It's all
as generous as it can be, but for a man whose mathematical education has been, shall we say,
defective, it's as bad as a barbed-wire entanglement."

"Oh, don't muddle your unfortunate head any more. Just plank down your money and take what
they give you. That's my motto."

"No doubt," I said; "that's all very well for you. You aren't the head of the household, with
all its cares depending on you. Heads of households ought-to know their exact position."

"Well, then, heads of households ought to have learnt their arithmetic better and remembered
more of it. The children and I haven't allowed ourselves to be hindered by little obstacles
of that kind."

"What," I said, "are you and the children in it too?"

"Yes, we're all in it. I've put in the spare money from the housekeeping----"

"I always knew you got too much."

"And the children have chipped in with their savings."

"Savings?" I said. "How have they got any savings?"

"Presents from affectionate godmothers and aunts, which were put into the Post Office Savings
Bank. They're all out now and into the Loan--all, that is, except Frederick's little all."

"And what's happened to that?"

"That's put into War Certificates. It was his own idea. He was fascinated by the poster, and
insisted that his money should go in the purchase of cartridges, so there it is."

"And at the end of five years he'll get back £1 for every 15s. 6d. he's put in."

"Yes, he'll get £5. He made a lot of difficulty about that."

"You don't mean to say he jibbed about getting his money back?"

"That's precisely what did happen. He said he'd given the money for cartridge buying, and how
could he take it back with a bit extra after the cartridges had been bought. He's really rather
annoyed about it."

"I shall tell him," I said, "not to let it worry him, and shall explain to him how much per
cent. he's getting per annum."

"You'll have to work it out yourself first of all," she said, "and I know you can't do that.
And, by the way, you may as well be ready for him; he's going to ask you if he may join the
Army as a drummer-boy."

"What on earth's put that into his head?"

"He's been talking to the Sergeant-Major, and he's invented a musical instrument of his own.
It's made out of a cardboard box, some pins and two or three elastic bands. There it is--you'll
find its name inscribed on it."

I took it up and saw inscribed upon it in large pencilled letters this strange device: "THE
TIPINBANOLA; made for soldiers only."

"Francesca," I said, "it's a superb name. Where did he get it from?"

"Out of his head," she said.

"I wonder," I said, "if he keeps any arithmetic there?"

"Ask him; I'm sure he'd be proud to help you."

"No," I said, "I must plough my weary furrow alone."

"And the guinea-hens," she said, "are still squawking."

"Yes," I said, "isn't it awful?"

"I'll go and stop them," she said.

"It's no good," I said, "I shan't hear them stop."

  R.C.L.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "If the ploughman is taken the farmer may as well put up his
    shutters."--A farmer in "The Daily News."

And if the shop-walker is taken, the tradesman may as well let his windows lie fallow. Without
any doubt his attempt has succeeded. I am, however, bound to add this warning (if Mr. MAIS'S
is not enough), that a novel with such a purpose is not, and could not be, milk for babes.
Nothing that I had previously read of Mr. MAIS'S had prepared me for the proficiency he shows
here. Obviously attached to the modern school of novelists, he has many of its faults and more
of its virtues. One may accept his main point of view, yet be offended sometimes by his details.
But the fact remains that in Geoffrey Battersby he has given us a piece of character-drawing
almost flawlessly perfect. Not for a very long time has it been my good fortune to attend such
a triumph, and I wish to proclaim it. The women by whom Geoffrey, the weak and the wayward,
was attracted hither and thither are also well drawn; but here Mr. MAIS shows his present limitations.
Nevertheless I feel sure that he has within him the qualities that go to make a great novelist,
and that if he will free himself from certain marked prejudices his future lies straight and
clear before him.

       *       *       *       *       *

