BY JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

--Quo fit ut OMNIS Votiva pateat veluti descripta tabella VITA SENIS.--

HORAT.

THE THIRD EDITION, REVISED AND AUGMENTED, IN FOUR VOLUMES.

LONDON: PRINTED BY H. BALDWIN AND SON, FOR CHARLES DILLY, IN THE POULTRY.

       *       *       *       *       *

M DCC XCIX.

TO

THE REVEREND BENJAMIN JOWETT, M.A.,

MASTER OF BALLIOL COLLEGE

REGIUS PROFESSOR OF GREEK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD

HONORARY LL.D. OF THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH

HONORARY D.D. OF THE UNIVERSITY OF LEYDEN

WHO IS NOT ONLY

'AN ACUTE AND KNOWING CRITIC'

BUT ALSO

'JOHNSONIANISSIMUS'

IN GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGMENT

OF THE

KINDLY INTEREST THAT HE HAS THROUGHOUT TAKEN

IN THE PROGRESS OF THIS WORK

This Edition

OF

BOSWELL'S LIFE OF JOHNSON

Is Dedicated

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

                                                              PAGE

DEDICATION TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1

ADVERTISEMENT TO THE FIRST EDITION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5

ADVERTISEMENT TO THE SECOND EDITION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

ADVERTISEMENT TO THE THIRD EDITION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14

CHRONOLOGICAL CATALOGUE OF THE PROSE WORKS OF SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .  16

LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON (SEPT. 18, 1709-OCTOBER 1765) . . . . 1-500

APPENDICES

  A. JOHNSON'S DEBATES IN PARLIAMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . 501

  B. JOHNSON'S LETTERS TO HIS MOTHER AND MISS PORTER
       IN 1759 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 512

  C. JOHNSON AT CAMBRIDGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  517

  D. JOHNSON'S LETTER TO DR. LELAND . . . . . . . . . . . . .  518

  E. JOHNSON'S 'ENGAGING IN POLITICKS WITH H----N'. . . . . .  518

  F. JOHNSON'S FIRST ACQUAINTANCE WITH THE THRALES
     AND HIS SERIOUS ILLNESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 520

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS, &c.

1. SAMUEL JOHNSON, after the Picture by Sir Joshua Reynolds in the
   National Gallery
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Frontispiece to VOL. I.

2. FACSIMILE OF JOHNSON'S HANDWRITING IN HIS 20TH YEAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . VOL. I, p. 60.

3. FACSIMILE OF A LETTER OF JOHNSON relating to Rasselas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . .  VOL. I, p. 340.

4. SAMUEL JOHNSON, from the Portrait painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds,
   1756
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VOL. I, p. 392.

5. SAMUEL JOHNSON, after the Bust by Nollekens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece
to VOL. II.

6. FACSIMILE OF JOHNSON'S HANDWRITING IN HIS 54TH YEAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VOL. II,
to follow Frontispiece.

7. SAMUEL JOHNSON, after the Painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds, 1770 . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .  Frontispiece to VOL. III.

8. FACSIMILE OF THE ROUND ROBIN ADDRESSED TO DR. JOHNSON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . VOL. III, p. 82.

9. OPIE'S PORTRAIT OF JOHNSON, from the Engraving in the Common
   Room of University College
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VOL. III, to face p. 245.

10. FACSIMILE OF DR. JOHNSON'S HANDWRITING A MONTH BEFORE
    HIS DEATH
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . VOL. IV, to face p. 377.

11. JAMES BOSWELL OF AUCHINLECK, Esq., from the painting by Sir
    Joshua Reynolds
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece to VOL. V.

12. FACSIMILE OF BOSWELL'S HANDWRITING, 1792, from a Letter in the
    Bodleian Library
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VOL. V, to follow Frontispiece.

13. MAP OF JOHNSON AND BOSWELL'S TOUR THROUGH SCOTLAND AND
    THE HEBRIDES
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  VOL. V, to face p. 5.

14. CHART OF JOHNSON'S CONTEMPORARIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frontispiece
to VOL. VI.

PREFACE.

Fielding, it is said, drank confusion to the man who invented the fifth act of a play. He who
has edited an extensive work, and has concluded his labours by the preparation of a copious
index, might well be pardoned, if he omitted to include the inventor of the Preface among the
benefactors of mankind. The long and arduous task that years before he had set himself to do
is done, and the last thing that he desires is to talk about it. Liberty is what he asks for,
liberty to range for a time wherever he pleases in the wide and fair fields of literature.
Yet with this longing for freedom comes a touch of regret and a doubt lest the 'fresh woods
and pastures new' may never wear the friendly and familiar face of the plot of ground within
whose narrower confines he has so long been labouring, and whose every corner he knows so well.
May-be he finds hope in the thought that should his new world seem strange to him and uncomfortable,
ere long he may be called back to his old task, and in the preparation of a second edition
find the quiet and the peace of mind that are often found alone in 'old use and wont.'

With me the preparation of these volumes has, indeed, been the work of many years. Boswell's
Life of Johnson I read for the first time in my boyhood, when I was too young for it to lay
any hold on me. When I entered Pembroke College, Oxford, though I loved to think that Johnson
had been there before me, yet I cannot call to mind that I ever opened the pages of Boswell.
By a happy chance I was turned to the study of the literature of the eighteenth century. Every
week we were required by the rules of the College to turn into Latin, or what we called Latin,
a passage from The Spectator. Many a happy minute slipped by while, in forgetfulness of my
task, I read on and on in its enchanting pages. It was always with a sigh that at last I tore
myself away, and sat resolutely down to write bad Latin instead of reading good English. From
Addison in the course of time I passed on to the other great writers of his and the succeeding
age, finding in their exquisitely clear style, their admirable common sense and their freedom
from all the tricks of affectation, a delightful contrast to so many of the eminent authors
of our own time. Those troublesome doubts, doubts of all kinds, which since the great upheaval
of the French Revolution have harassed mankind, had scarcely begun to ruffle the waters of
their life. Even Johnson's troubled mind enjoyed vast levels of repose. The unknown world alone
was wrapped in stormy gloom; of this world 'all the complaints which were made were unjust[1].'
Though I was now familiar with many of the great writers, yet Boswell I had scarcely opened
since my boyhood. A happy day came just eighteen years ago when in an old book-shop, almost
under the shadow of a great cathedral, I bought a second-hand copy of a somewhat early edition
of the Life in five well-bound volumes. Of all my books none I cherish more than these. In
looking at them I have known what it is to feel Bishop Percy's 'uneasiness at the thoughts
of leaving his books in death[2].' They became my almost inseparable companions. Before long
I began to note the parallel passages and allusions not only in their pages, but in the various
authors whom I studied. Yet in these early days I never dreamt of preparing a new edition.
It fell to my lot as time went on to criticise in some of our leading publications works that
bore both on Boswell and Johnson. Such was my love for the subject that on one occasion, when
I was called upon to write a review that should fall two columns of a weekly newspaper, I read
a new edition of the Life from beginning to end without, I believe, missing a single line of
the text or a single note. At length, 'towering in the confidence'[3] of one who as yet has
but set his foot on the threshold of some stately mansion in which he hopes to find for himself
a home, I was rash enough more than twelve years ago to offer myself as editor of a new edition
of Boswell's Life of Johnson. Fortunately for me another writer had been already engaged by
the publisher to whom I applied, and my offer was civilly declined. From that time on I never
lost sight of my purpose but when in the troubles of life I well-nigh lost sight of every kind
of hope. Everything in my reading that bore on my favourite author was carefully noted, till
at length I felt that the materials which I had gathered from all sides were sufficient to
shield me from a charge of rashness if I now began to raise the building. Much of the work
of preparation had been done at a grievous disadvantage. My health more than once seemed almost
hopelessly broken down. Nevertheless even then the time was not wholly lost. In the sleepless
hours of many a winter night I almost forgot my miseries in the delightful pages of Horace
Walpole's Letters, and with pencil in hand and some little hope still in heart, managed to
get a few notes taken. Three winters I had to spend on the shores of the Mediterranean. During
two of them my malady and my distress allowed of no rival, and my work made scarcely any advance.
The third my strength was returning, and in the six months that I spent three years ago in
San Remo I wrote out very many of the notes which I am now submitting to my readers.

An interval of some years of comparative health that I enjoyed between my two severest illnesses
allowed me to try my strength as a critic and an editor. In Dr. Johnson: His Friends and his
Critics, which I published in the year 1878, I reviewed the judgments passed on Johnson and
Boswell by Lord Macaulay and Mr. Carlyle, I described Oxford as it was known to Johnson, and
I threw light on more than one important passage in the Life. The following year I edited Boswell's
Journal of a Tour to Corsica and his curious correspondence with the Hon. Andrew Erskine. The
somewhat rare little volume in which are contained the lively but impudent letters that passed
between these two friends I had found one happy day in an old book-stall underneath the town
hall of Keswick. I hoped that among the almost countless readers of Boswell there would be
many who would care to study in one of the earliest attempts of his joyous youth the man whose
ripened genius was to place him at the very head of all the biographers of whom the world can
boast. My hopes were increased by the elegance and the accuracy of the typography with which
my publishers, Messrs. De La Rue & Co., adorned this reprint. I was disappointed in my expectations.
These curious Letters met with a neglect which they did not deserve. Twice, moreover, I was
drawn away from the task that I had set before me by other works. By the death of my uncle,
Sir Rowland Hill, I was called upon to edit his History of the Penny Postage, and to write
his Life. Later on General Gordon's correspondence during the first six years of his government
of the Soudan was entrusted to me to prepare for the press. In my Colonel Gordon in Central
Africa I attempted to do justice to the rare genius, to the wise and pure enthusiasm, and to
the exalted beneficence of that great man. The labour that I gave to these works was, as regards
my main purpose, by no means wholly thrown away. I was trained by it in the duties of an editor,
and by studying the character of two such men, who, though wide as the poles asunder in many
things, were as devoted to truth and accuracy as they were patient in their pursuit, I was
strengthened in my hatred of carelessness and error.

With all these interruptions the summer of 1885 was upon me before I was ready for the compositors
to make a beginning with my work. In revising my proofs very rarely indeed have I contented
myself in verifying my quotations with comparing them merely with my own manuscript. In almost
all instances I have once more examined the originals. In the course of the eighteen months
during which they have been passing through the press, fresh reading has given fresh information,
and caused many an addition, and not a few corrections moreover to be made, in passages which
I had previously presumed to think already complete. Had it been merely the biography of a
great man of letters that I was illustrating, such anxious care would scarcely have been needful.
But Boswell's Life of Johnson, as its author with just pride boasts on its title-page, 'exhibits
a view of literature and literary men in Great Britain, for near half a century during which
Johnson flourished.' Wide, indeed, is the gulf by which this half-century is separated from
us. The reaction against the thought and style of the age over which Pope ruled in its prime,
and Johnson in its decline,--this reaction, wise as it was in many ways and extravagant as
it was perhaps in more, is very far from having spent its force. Young men are still far too
often found in our Universities who think that one proof of their originality is a contempt
of authors whose writings they have never read. Books which were in the hands of almost every
reader of the Life when it first appeared are now read only by the curious. Allusions and quotations
which once fell upon a familiar and a friendly ear now fall dead. Men whose names were known
to every one, now often have not even a line in a Dictionary of Biography. Johnson in his talk
ranges over a vast number of subjects. In his capacious memory were stored up the fruits of
an almost boundless curiosity, and a wide and varied reading. I have sought to follow him wherever
a remark of his required illustration, and have read through many a book that I might trace
to its source a reference or an allusion. I have examined, moreover, all the minor writings
which are attributed to him by Boswell, but which are not for the most part included in his
collected works. In some cases I have ventured to set my judgment against Boswell's, and have
refused to admit that Johnson was the author of the feeble pieces which were fathered on him.
Once or twice in the course of my reading I have come upon essays which had escaped the notice
of his biographer, but which bear the marks of his workmanship. To these I have given a reference.
While the minute examination that I have so often had to make of Boswell's narrative has done
nothing but strengthen my trust in his statements and my admiration of his laborious truthfulness,
yet in one respect I have not found him so accurate as I had expected. 'I have,' he says, 'been
extremely careful as to the exactness of my quotations[8].' Though in preparing his manuscript
he referred in each case 'to the originals,' yet he did not, I conjecture, examine them once
more in revising his proof-sheets. At all events he has allowed errors to slip in. These I
have pointed out in my notes, for in every case where I could I have, I believe, verified his
quotations.

I have not thought that it was my duty as an editor to attempt to refute or even to criticise
Johnson's arguments. The story is told that when Peter the Great was on his travels and far
from his country, some members of the Russian Council of State in St. Petersburgh ventured
to withstand what was known to be his wish. His walking-stick was laid upon the table, and
silence at once fell upon all. In like manner, before that editor who should trouble himself
and his readers with attempting to refute Johnson's arguments, paradoxical as they often were,
should be placed Reynolds's portrait of that 'labouring working mind[9].' It might make him
reflect that if the mighty reasoner could rise up and meet him face to face, he would be sure,
on which ever side the right might be, even if at first his pistol missed fire to knock him
down with the butt-end of it[10]. I have attempted therefore not to criticise but to illustrate
Johnson's statements. I have compared them with the opinions of the more eminent men among
his contemporaries, and with his own as they are contained in other parts of his Life, and
in his writings. It is in his written works that his real opinion can be most surely found.
'He owned he sometimes talked for victory; he was too conscientious to make error permanent
and pernicious by deliberately writing it[11].' My numerous extracts from the eleven volumes
of his collected works will, I trust, not only give a truer insight into the nature of the
man, but also will show the greatness of the author to a generation of readers who have wandered
into widely different paths.

In my attempts to trace the quotations of which both Johnson and Boswell were somewhat lavish,
I have not in every case been successful, though I have received liberal assistance from more
than one friend. In one case my long search was rewarded by the discovery that Boswell was
quoting himself. That I have lighted upon the beautiful lines which Johnson quoted when he
saw the Highland girl singing at her wheel[12], and have found out who was 'one Giffard,' or
rather Gifford, 'a parson,' is to me a source of just triumph. I have not known many happier
hours than the one in which in the Library of the British Museum my patient investigation was
rewarded and I perused Contemplation.

Fifteen hitherto unpublished letters of Johnson[13]; his college composition in Latin prose[14];
a long extract from his manuscript diary[15]; a suppressed passage in his Journey to the Western
Islands[16]; Boswell's letters of acceptance of the office of Secretary for Foreign Correspondence
to the Royal Academy[17]; the proposal for the publication of a Geographical Dictionary issued
by Johnson's beloved friend, Dr. Bathurst[18]; and Mr. Recorder Longley's record of his conversation
with Johnson on Greek metres[19], will, I trust, throw some lustre on this edition.

In many notes I have been able to clear up statements in the text which were not fully understood
even by the author, or were left intentionally dark by him, or have become obscure through
lapse of time. I would particularly refer to the light that I have thrown on Johnson's engaging
in politics with William Gerard Hamilton[20], and on Burke's 'talk of retiring[21].' In many
other notes I have established Boswell's accuracy against attacks which had been made on it
apparently with success. It was with much pleasure that I discovered that the story told of
Johnson's listening to Dr. Sacheverel's sermon is not in any way improbable[22], and that Johnson's
'censure' of Lord Kames was quite just[23]. The ardent advocates of total abstinence will not,
I fear, be pleased at finding at the end of my long note on Johnson's wine-drinking that I
have been obliged to show that he thought that the gout from which he suffered was due to his
temperance. 'I hope you persevere in drinking,' he wrote to his friend, Dr. Taylor. 'My opinion
is that I have drunk too little[24].'

In the Appendices I have generally treated of subjects which demanded more space than could
be given them in the narrow limits of a foot-note. In the twelve pages of the essay on Johnson's
Debates in Parliament[25] I have compressed the result of the reading of many weeks. In examining
the character of George Psalmanazar[26] I have complied with the request of an unknown correspondent
who was naturally interested in the history of that strange man, 'after whom Johnson sought
the most[27].' In my essay on Johnson's Travels and Love of Travelling[28] I have, in opposition
to Lord Macaulay's wild and wanton rhetoric, shown how ardent and how elevated was the curiosity
with which Johnson's mind was possessed. In another essay I have explained, I do not say justified,
his strong feelings towards the founders of the United States[29]; and in a fifth I have examined
the election of the Lord Mayors of London, at a time when the City was torn by political strife[30].
To the other Appendices it is not needful particularly to refer.

In my Index, which has cost me many months' heavy work, 'while I bore burdens with dull patience
and beat the track of the alphabet with sluggish resolution[31],' I have, I hope, shown that
I am not unmindful of all that I owe to men of letters. To the dead we cannot pay the debt
of gratitude that is their due. Some relief is obtained from its burthen, if we in our turn
make the men of our own generation debtors to us. The plan on which my Index is made will,
I trust, be found convenient. By the alphabetical arrangement in the separate entries of each
article the reader, I venture to think, will be greatly facilitated in his researches. Certain
subjects I have thought it best to form into groups. Under America, France Ireland, London,
Oxford, Paris, and Scotland, are gathered together almost all the references to those subjects.
The provincial towns of France, however, by some mistake I did not include in the general article.
One important but intentional omission I must justify. In the case of the quotations in which
my notes abound I have not thought it needful in the Index to refer to the book unless the
eminence of the author required a separate and a second entry. My labour would have been increased
beyond all endurance and my Index have been swollen almost into a monstrosity had I always
referred to the book as well as to the matter which was contained in the passage that I extracted.
Though in such a variety of subjects there must be many omissions, yet I shall be greatly disappointed
if actual errors are discovered. Every entry I have made myself, and every entry I have verified
in the proof-sheets, not by comparing it with my manuscript, but by turning to the reference
in the printed volumes. Some indulgence nevertheless may well be claimed and granted. If Homer
at times nods, an index-maker may be pardoned, should he in the fourth or fifth month of his
task at the end of a day of eight hours' work grow drowsy. May I fondly hope that to the maker
of so large an Index will be extended the gratitude which Lord Bolingbroke says was once shown
to lexicographers? 'I approve,' writes his Lordship, 'the devotion of a studious man at Christ
Church, who was overheard in his oratory entering into a detail with God, and acknowledging
the divine goodness in furnishing the world with makers of dictionaries[32].'

In the list that I give in the beginning of the sixth volume of the books which I quote, the
reader will find stated in full the titles which in the notes, through regard to space, I was
forced to compress.

The Concordance of Johnson's sayings which follows the Index[33] will be found convenient by
the literary man who desires to make use of his strong and pointed utterances. Next to Shakespeare
he is, I believe, quoted and misquoted the most frequently of all our writers. 'It is not every
man that can carry a bon-mot[34].' Bons-mots that are miscarried of all kinds of good things
suffer the most. In this Concordance the general reader, moreover, may find much to delight
him. Johnson's trade was wit and wisdom[35], and some of his best wares are here set out in
a small space. It was, I must confess, with no little pleasure that in revising my proof-sheets
I found that the last line in my Concordance and the last line in my six long volumes is Johnson's
quotation of Goldsmith's fine saying; 'I do not love a man who is zealous for nothing.'

In the 'forward' references in the notes to other passages in the book, the reader may be surprised
at finding that while often I only give the date under which the reference will be found, frequently
I am able to quote the page and volume. The explanation is a simple one: two sets of compositors
were generally at work, and two volumes were passing through the press simultaneously.

In the selection of the text which I should adopt I hesitated for some time. In ordinary cases
the edition which received the author's final revision is the one which all future editors
should follow. The second edition, which was the last that was brought out in Boswell's life-time,
could not, I became convinced, be conveniently reproduced. As it was passing through the press
he obtained many additional anecdotes and letters. These he somewhat awkwardly inserted in
an Introduction and an Appendix. He was engaged on his third edition when he died. 'He had
pointed out where some of these materials should be inserted,' and 'in the margin of the copy
which he had in part revised he had written notes[36].' His interrupted labours were completed
by Edmond Malone, to whom he had read aloud almost the whole of his original manuscript, and
who had helped him in the revision of the first half of the book when it was in type[37]. 'These
notes,' says Malone, 'are faithfully preserved.' He adds that 'every new remark, not written
by the author, for the sake of distinction has been enclosed within crotchets[38].' In the
third edition therefore we have the work in the condition in which it would have most approved
itself to Boswell's own judgment. In one point only, and that a trifling one, had Malone to
exercise his judgment. But so skilful an editor was very unlikely to go wrong in those few
cases in which he was called upon to insert in their proper places the additional material
which the author had already published in his second edition. Malone did not, however, correct
the proof-sheets. I thought it my duty, therefore, in revising my work to have the text of
Boswell's second edition read aloud to me throughout. Some typographical errors might, I feared,
have crept in. In a few unimportant cases early in the book I adopted the reading of the second
edition, but as I read on I became convinced that almost all the verbal alterations were Boswell's
own. Slight errors, often of the nature of Scotticisms, had been corrected, and greater accuracy
often given. Some of the corrections and additions in the third edition that were undoubtedly
from his hand were of considerable importance.

I have retained Boswell's spelling in accordance with the wish that he expressed in the preface
to his Account of Corsica. 'If this work,' he writes, 'should at any future period be reprinted,
I hope that care will be taken of my orthography[39].' The punctuation too has been preserved.

I should be wanting in justice were I not to acknowledge that I owe much to the labours of
Mr. Croker. No one can know better than I do his great failings as an editor. His remarks and
criticisms far too often deserve the contempt that Macaulay so liberally poured on them. Without
being deeply versed in books, he was shallow in himself. Johnson's strong character was never
known to him. Its breadth and length, and depth and height were far beyond his measure. With
his writings even he shows few signs of being familiar. Boswell's genius, a genius which even
to Lord Macaulay was foolishness, was altogether hidden from his dull eye. No one surely but
a 'blockhead,' a 'barren rascal[40],' could with scissors and paste-pot have mangled the biography
which of all others is the delight and the boast of the English-speaking world. He is careless
in small matters, and his blunders are numerous. These I have only noticed in the more important
cases, remembering what Johnson somewhere points out, that the triumphs of one critic over
another only fatigue and disgust the reader. Yet he has added considerably to our knowledge
of Johnson. He knew men who had intimately known both the hero and his biographer, and he gathered
much that but for his care would have been lost for ever. He was diligent and successful in
his search after Johnson's letters, of so many of which Boswell with all his persevering and
pushing diligence had not been able to get a sight. The editor of Mr. Croker's Correspondence
and Diaries[41] goes, however, much too far when, in writing of Macaulay's criticism, he says:
'The attack defeated itself by its very violence, and therefore it did the book no harm whatever.
Between forty and fifty thousand copies have been sold, although Macaulay boasted with great
glee that he had smashed it.' The book that Macaulay attacked was withdrawn. That monstrous
medley reached no second edition. In its new form all the worst excrescences had been cleared
away, and though what was left was not Boswell, still less was it unchastened Croker. His repentance,
however, was not thorough. He never restored the text to its old state; wanton transpositions
of passages still remain, and numerous insertions break the narrative. It was my good fortune
to become a sound Boswellian before I even looked at his edition. It was not indeed till I
came to write out my notes for the press that I examined his with any thoroughness. When his
attention is strongly engaged let it disdain alike to turn aside to the name of Theobald and
of Pope. Let him read on through brightness and obscurity, through integrity and corruption;
let him preserve his comprehension of the dialogue and his interest in the fable. And when
the pleasures of novelty have ceased let him attempt exactness and read the commentators[43].'

So too let him who reads the Life of Johnson for the first time read it in one of the Pre-Crokerian
editions. They are numerous and good. With his attention undiverted by notes he will rapidly
pass through one of the most charming narratives that the world has ever seen, and if his taste
is uncorrupted by modern extravagances, will recognise the genius of an author who, in addition
to other great qualities, has an admirable eye for the just proportions of an extensive work,
and who is the master of a style that is as easy as it is inimitable.

Johnson, I fondly believe, would have been pleased, perhaps would even have been proud, could
he have foreseen this edition. Few distinctions he valued more highly than those which he received
from his own great University. The honorary degrees that it conferred on him, the gown that
it entitled him to wear, by him were highly esteemed. In the Clarendon Press he took a great
interest[44]. The efforts which that famous establishment has made in the excellence of the
typography, the quality of the paper, and the admirably-executed illustrations and facsimiles
to do honour to his memory and to the genius of his biographer would have highly delighted
him. To his own college he was so deeply attached that he would not have been displeased to
learn that his editor had been nursed in that once famous 'nest of singing birds.' Of Boswell's
pleasure I cannot doubt. How much he valued any tribute of respect from Oxford is shown by
the absurd importance that he gave to a sermon which was preached before the University by
an insignificant clergyman more than a year and a half after Johnson's death[45]. When Edmund
Burke witnessed the long and solemn procession entering the Cathedral of St. Paul's, as it
followed Sir Joshua Reynolds to his grave, he wrote: 'Everything, I think, was just as our
deceased friend would, if living, have wished it to be; for he was, as you know, not altogether
indifferent to this kind of observances[46].' It would, indeed, be presumptuous in me to flatter
myself that in this edition everything is as Johnson and Boswell would, if living, have wished
it. Yet to this kind of observances, the observances that can be shown by patient and long
labour, and by the famous press of a great University, neither man was altogether indifferent.

Should my work find favour with the world of readers, I hope again to labour in the same fields.
I had indeed at one time intended to enlarge this edition by essays on Boswell, Johnson, Mrs.
Thrale, and perhaps on other subjects. Their composition would, however, have delayed publication
more than seemed advisable, and their length might have rendered the volumes bulky beyond all
reason. A more favourable opportunity may come. I have in hand a Selection of the Wit and Wisdom
of Dr. Johnson. I purpose, moreover, to collect and edit all of his letters that are not in
the Life. Some hundreds of these were published by Mrs. Piozzi; many more are contained in
Mr. Croker's edition; while others have already appeared in Notes and Queries[47]. Not a few,
doubtless, are still lurking in the desks of the collectors of autographs. As a letter-writer
Johnson stands very high. While the correspondence of David Garrick has been given to the world
in two large volumes, it is not right that the letters of his far greater friend should be
left scattered and almost neglected. 'He that sees before him to his third dinner,' says Johnson,
'has a long prospect[48].' My prospect is still longer; for, if health be spared, and a fair
degree of public favour shown, I see before me to my third book. When I have published my Letters,
I hope to enter upon a still more arduous task in editing the Lives of the Poets.

In my work I have received much kind assistance, not only from friends, but also from strangers
to whom I had applied in cases where special knowledge could alone throw light on some obscure
point. My acknowledgments I have in most instances made in my notes. In some cases, either
through want of opportunity or forgetfulness, this has not been done. I gladly avail myself
of the present opportunity to remedy this deficiency. The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres I
have to thank for so liberally allowing the original of the famous Round Robin, which is in
his Lordship's possession, to be reproduced by a photographic process for this edition. It
is by the kindness of Mr. J.L.G. Mowat, M.A., Fellow and Bursar of Pembroke College, Oxford,
that I have been able to make a careful examination of the Johnsonian manuscripts in which
our college is so rich. If the vigilance with which he keeps guard over these treasures while
they are being inspected is continued by his successors in office, the college will never have
to mourn over the loss of a single leaf. To the Rev. W.D. Macray, M.A., of the manuscript department
of the Bodleian, to Mr. Falconer Madan, M.A., Sub-Librarian of the same Library, and to Mr.
George Parker, one of the Assistants, I am indebted for the kindness with which they have helped
me in my inquiries. To Mr. W.H. Allnutt, another of the Assistants, I owe still more. When
I was abroad, I too frequently, I fear, troubled him with questions which no one could have
answered who was not well versed in bibliographical lore. It was not often that his acuteness
was baffled, while his kindness was never exhausted. My old friend Mr. E.J. Payne, M.A., Fellow
of University College, Oxford, the learned editor of the Select Works of Burke published by
the Clarendon Press, has allowed me, whenever I pleased, to draw on his extensive knowledge
of the history and the literature of the eighteenth century. Mr. C.G. Crump, B.A., of Balliol
College, Oxford, has traced for me not a few of the quotations which had baffled my search.
To Mr. G.K. Fortescue, Superintendent of the Reading Room of the British Museum, my most grateful
acknowledgments are due. His accurate and extensive knowledge of books and his unfailing courtesy
and kindness have lightened many a day's heavy work in the spacious room over which he so worthily
presides. But most of all am I indebted to Mr. C.E. Doble, M.A., of the Clarendon Press. He
has read all my proof-sheets, and by his almost unrivalled knowledge of the men of letters
of the close of the seventeenth and of the beginning of the eighteenth centuries, he has saved
my notes from some blunders and has enriched them with much valuable information. In my absence
abroad he has in more instances than I care to think of consulted for me the Bodleian Library.
It is some relief to my conscience to know that the task was rendered lighter to him by his
intimate familiarity with its treasures, and by the deep love for literature with which he
is inspired.

There are other thanks due which I cannot here fittingly express. 'An author partakes of the
common condition of humanity; he is born and married like another man; he has hopes and fears,
expectations and disappointments, griefs and joys like a courtier or a statesman[49].' In the
hopes and fears, in the expectations and disappointments, in the griefs and joys--nay, in the
very labours of his literary life, if his hearth is not a solitary one, he has those who largely
share.

I have now come to the end of my long labours. 'There are few things not purely evil,' wrote
Johnson, 'of which we can say without some emotion of uneasiness, this is the last[50].' From
this emotion I cannot feign that I am free. My book has been my companion in many a sad and
many a happy hour. I take leave of it with a pang of regret, but I am cheered by the hope that
it may take its place, if a lowly one, among the works of men who have laboured patiently but
not unsuccessfully in the great and shining fields of English literature.

G. B. H.

CLARENS, SWITZERLAND: March 16, 1887.

ERRATA.

Vol. I, page 140, n. 5, l. 2, read 'of.'
   "     "   176, n. 2, l. 22, for 1774 read 1747.
   "     "   262, n. 3 of p. 261, l. 3, for guineas read pounds.
   "     "   480, l. 20, for language, read language.'

Vol. II, page 34, n. 1, l. 40, for proper. read proper.'
   "      "   445, l. 8, for Masters read Master

Vol. III, page 18, l. 13, read accessary.
   "       "   81, n. 1, l. 2, for 1784, read 1784.
   "       "   312, n. 1, l. 1, for Mrs. Burney read Miss Burney

Vol. IV, page 323, n. 1, l. 21, for Wharton read Warton
   "      "   379, l. 19, read after

Vol. V, page 49, n. 4, l. 2, for 'Boswell' read 'Johnson.' Vol. VI. "   74, col. 2, insert
Eccles, Rev. W., i. 360.

DEDICATION.

TO SIR JOSHUA REYNOLDS.

MY DEAR SIR,

Every liberal motive that can actuate an Authour in the dedication of his labours, concurs
in directing me to you, as the person to whom the following Work should be inscribed.

If there be a pleasure in celebrating the distinguished merit of a contemporary, mixed with
a certain degree of vanity not altogether inexcusable, in appearing fully sensible of it, where
can I find one, in complimenting whom I can with more general approbation gratify those feelings?
Your excellence not only in the Art over which you have long presided with unrivalled fame,
but also in Philosophy and elegant Literature, is well known to the present, and will continue
to be the admiration of future ages. Your equal and placid temper[51], your variety of conversation,
your true politeness, by which you are so amiable in private society, and that enlarged hospitality
which has long made your house a common centre of union for the great, the accomplished, the
learned, and the ingenious; all these qualities I can, in perfect confidence of not being accused
of flattery, ascribe to you.

If a man may indulge an honest pride, in having it known to the world, that he has been thought
worthy of particular attention by a person of the first eminence in the age in which he lived,
whose company has been universally courted, I am justified in availing myself of the usual
privilege of a Dedication, when I mention that there has been a long and uninterrupted friendship
between us.

[Page 2: Dedication.]

If gratitude should be acknowledged for favours received, I have this opportunity, my dear
Sir, most sincerely to thank you for the many happy hours which I owe to your kindness,--for
the cordiality with which you have at all times been pleased to welcome me,--for the number
of valuable acquaintances to whom you have introduced me,--for the noctes coenaeque Deum[52],
which I have enjoyed under your roof[53].

If a work should be inscribed to one who is master of the subject of it, and whose approbation,
therefore, must ensure it credit and success, the Life of Dr. Johnson is, with the greatest
propriety, dedicated to Sir Joshua Reynolds, who was the intimate and beloved friend of that
great man; the friend, whom he declared to be 'the most invulnerable man he knew; whom, if
he should quarrel with him, he should find the most difficulty how to abuse[54].' You, my dear
Sir, studied him, and knew him well: you venerated and admired him. Yet, luminous as he was
upon the whole, you perceived all the shades which mingled in the grand composition; all the
little peculiarities and slight blemishes which marked the literary Colossus. Your very warm
commendation of the specimen which I gave in my Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, of my being
able to preserve his conversation in an authentick and lively manner, which opinion the Publick
has confirmed, was the best encouragement for me to persevere in my purpose of producing the
whole of my stores[55].

In one respect, this Work will, in some passages, be different from the former. In my Tour,
I was almost unboundedly open in my communications, and from my eagerness to display the wonderful
fertility and readiness of Johnson's wit, freely shewed to the world its dexterity, even when
I was myself the object of it. I trusted that I should be liberally understood, as knowing
very well what I was about, and by no means as simply unconscious of the pointed effects of
the satire. I own, indeed, that I was arrogant enough to suppose that the tenour of the rest
of the book would sufficiently guard me against such a strange imputation. But it seems I judged
too well of the world; for, though I could scarcely believe it, I have been undoubtedly informed,
that many persons, especially in distant quarters, not penetrating enough into Johnson's character,
so as to understand his mode of treating his friends, have arraigned my judgement, instead
of seeing that I was sensible of all that they could observe.

It is related of the great Dr. Clarke[56], that when in one of his leisure hours he was unbending
himself with a few friends in the most playful and frolicksome manner, he observed Beau Nash
approaching; upon which he suddenly stopped:--'My boys, (said he,) let us be grave: here comes
a fool.' The world, my friend, I have found to be a great fool, as to that particular, on which
it has become necessary to speak very plainly. I have, therefore, in this Work been more reserved[57];
and though I tell nothing but the truth, I have still kept in my mind that the whole truth
is not always to be exposed. This, however, I have managed so as to occasion no diminution
of the pleasure which my book should afford; though malignity may sometimes be disappointed
of its gratifications.

[Page 4: Dedication.]

I am,

My dear Sir,

Your much obliged friend,

And faithful humble servant,

JAMES BOSWELL.

London,

April 20, 1791.

ADVERTISEMENT

TO THE

FIRST EDITION.

I at last deliver to the world a Work which I have long promised, and of which, I am afraid,
too high expectations have been raised[58]. The delay of its publication must be imputed, in
a considerable degree, to the extraordinary zeal which has been shewn by distinguished persons
in all quarters to supply me with additional information concerning its illustrious subject;
resembling in this the grateful tribes of ancient nations, of which every individual was eager
to throw a stone upon the grave of a departed Hero, and thus to share in the pious office of
erecting an honourable monument to his memory[59].

[Page 6: Advertisement to the First Edition.]

The labour and anxious attention with which I have collected and arranged the materials of
which these volumes are composed, will hardly be conceived by those who read them with careless
facility[60]. The stretch of mind and prompt assiduity by which so many conversations were
preserved[61], I myself, at some distance of time, contemplate with wonder; and I must be allowed
to suggest, that the nature of the work, in other respects, as it consists of innumerable detached
particulars, all which, even the most minute, I have spared no pains to ascertain with a scrupulous
authenticity, has occasioned a degree of trouble far beyond that of any other species of composition.
Were I to detail the books which I have consulted, and the inquiries which I have found it
necessary to make by various channels, I should probably be thought ridiculously ostentatious.
And after all, perhaps, hard as it may be, I shall not be surprized if omissions or mistakes
be pointed out with invidious severity. I have also been extremely careful as to the exactness
of my quotations; holding that there is a respect due to the publick which should oblige every
Authour to attend to this, and never to presume to introduce them with,--'I think I have read;'--or,--'If
I remember right;'--when the originals may be examined[62].

I beg leave to express my warmest thanks to those who have been pleased to favour me with communications
and advice in the conduct of my Work. But I cannot sufficiently acknowledge my obligations
to my friend Mr. Malone, who was so good as to allow me to read to him almost the whole of
my manuscript, and make such remarks as were greatly for the advantage of the Work[63]; though
it is but fair to him to mention, that upon many occasions I differed from him, and followed
my own judgement.

I regret exceedingly that I was deprived of the benefit of his revision, when not more than
one half of the book had passed through the press; but after having completed his very laborious
and admirable edition of Shakspeare, for which he generously would accept of no other reward
but that fame which he has so deservedly obtained, he fulfilled his promise of a long-wished-for
visit to his relations in Ireland; from whence his safe return finibus Atticis is desired by
his friends here, with all the classical ardour of Sic te Diva potens Cypri[64]; for there
is no man in whom more elegant and worthy qualities are united; and whose society, therefore,
is more valued by those who know him.

It is painful to me to think, that while I was carrying on this Work, several of those to whom
it would have been most interesting have died. Such melancholy disappointments we know to be
incident to humanity; but we do not feel them the less. Let me particularly lament the Reverend
Thomas Warton, and the Reverend Dr. Adams. Mr. Warton, amidst his variety of genius and learning,
was an excellent Biographer. His contributions to my Collection are highly estimable; and as
he had a true relish of my Tour to the Hebrides, I trust I should now have been gratified with
a larger share of his kind approbation. Dr. Adams, eminent as the Head of a College, as a writer[65],
and as a most amiable man, had known Johnson from his early years, and was his friend through
life. What reason I had to hope for the countenance of that venerable Gentleman to this Work,
will appear from what he wrote to me upon a former occasion from Oxford, November 17, 1785:--'Dear
Sir, I hazard this letter, not knowing where it will find you, to thank you for your very agreeable
Tour, which I found here on my return from the country, and in which you have depicted our
friend so perfectly to my fancy, in every attitude, every scene and situation, that I have
thought myself in the company, and of the party almost throughout. It has given very general
satisfaction; and those who have found most fault with a passage here and there, have agreed
that they could not help going through, and being entertained with the whole. I wish, indeed,
some few gross expressions had been softened, and a few of our hero's foibles had been a little
more shaded; but it is useful to see the weaknesses incident to great minds; and you have given
us Dr. Johnson's authority that in history all ought to be told[66].'

Such a sanction to my faculty of giving a just representation of Dr. Johnson I could not conceal.
Nor will I suppress my satisfaction in the consciousness, that by recording so considerable
a portion of the wisdom and wit of 'the brightest ornament of the eighteenth century[67].'
I have largely provided for the instruction and entertainment of mankind.

London, April 20, 1791[68].

ADVERTISMENT

TO THE

SECOND EDITION.

That I was anxious for the success of a Work which had employed much of my time and labour,
I do not wish to conceal: but whatever doubts I at any time entertained, have been entirely
removed by the very favourable reception with which it has been honoured[69]. That reception
has excited my best exertions to render my Book more perfect; and in this endeavour I have
had the assistance not only of some of my particular friends, but of many other learned and
ingenious men, by which I have been enabled to rectify some mistakes, and to enrich the Work
with many valuable additions. These I have ordered to be printed separately in quarto, for
the accommodation of the purchasers of the first edition[70]. May I be permitted to say that
the typography of both editions does honour to the press of Mr. Henry Baldwin, now Master of
the Worshipful Company of Stationers, whom I have long known as a worthy man and an obliging
friend.

In the strangely mixed scenes of human existence, our feelings are often at once pleasing and
painful. Of this truth, the progress of the present Work furnishes a striking instance. It
was highly gratifying to me that my friend, Sir Joshua Reynolds, to whom it is inscribed, lived
to peruse it, and to give the strongest testimony to its fidelity; but before a second edition,
which he contributed to improve, could be finished, the world has been deprived of that most
valuable man[71]; a loss of which the regret will be deep, and lasting, and extensive, proportionate
to the felicity which he diffused through a wide circle of admirers and friends[72].

[Page 11: Advertisement to the Second Edition.]

In reflecting that the illustrious subject of this Work, by being more extensively and intimately
known, however elevated before, has risen in the veneration and love of mankind, I feel a satisfaction
beyond what fame can afford. We cannot, indeed, too much or too often admire his wonderful
powers of mind, when we consider that the principal store of wit and wisdom which this Work
contains, was not a particular selection from his general conversation, but was merely his
occasional talk at such times as I had the good fortune to be in his company[73]; and, without
doubt, if his discourse at other periods had been collected with the same attention, the whole
tenor of what he uttered would have been found equally excellent.

His strong, clear, and animated enforcement of religion, morality, loyalty, and subordination,
while it delights and improves the wise and the good, will, I trust, prove an effectual antidote
to that detestable sophistry which has been lately imported from France, under the false name
of Philosophy, and with a malignant industry has been employed against the peace, good order,
and happiness of society, in our free and prosperous country; but thanks be to GOD, without
producing the pernicious effects which were hoped for by its propagators.

It seems to me, in my moments of self-complacency, that this extensive biographical work, however
inferior in its nature, may in one respect be assimilated to the ODYSSEY. Amidst a thousand
entertaining and instructive episodes the HERO is never long out of sight; for they are all
in some degree connected with him; and HE, in the whole course of the History, is exhibited
by the Authour for the best advantage of his readers.

'--Quid virtus et quid sapientia possit, Utile proposuit nobis exemplar Ulyssen[74].'

Should there be any cold-blooded and morose mortals who really dislike this Book, I will give
them a story to apply. When the great Duke of Marlborough, accompanied by Lord Cadogan, was
one day reconnoitering the army in Flanders, a heavy rain came on, and they both called for
their cloaks. Lord Cadogan's servant, a good humoured alert lad, brought his Lordship's in
a minute. The Dukes servant, a lazy sulky dog, was so sluggish, that his Grace being wet to
the skin, reproved him, and had for answer with a grunt, 'I came as fast as I could,' upon
which the Duke calmly said, 'Cadogan, I would not for a thousand pounds have that fellow's temper!'

There are some men, I believe, who have, or think they have, a very small share of vanity.
Such may speak of their literary fame in a decorous style of diffidence. But I confess, that
I am so formed by nature and by habit, that to restrain the effusion of delight, on having
obtained such fame, to me would be truly painful. Why then should I suppress it? Why 'out of
the abundance of the heart' should I not speak[75]? Let me then mention with a warm, but no
insolent exultation, that I have been regaled with spontaneous praise of my work by many and
various persons eminent for their rank, learning, talents and accomplishments; much of which
praise I have under their hands to be reposited in my archives at Auchinleck[76]. An honourable
and reverend friend speaking of the favourable reception of my volumes, even in the circles
of fashion and elegance, said to me, 'you have made them all talk Johnson.'--Yes, I may add,
I have Johnsonised the land; and I trust they will not only talk, but think, Johnson.

To enumerate those to whom I have been thus indebted, would be tediously ostentatious. I cannot
however but name one whose praise is truly valuable, not only on account of his knowledge and
abilities, but on account of the magnificent, yet dangerous embassy, in which he is now employed[77],
which makes every thing that relates to him peculiarly interesting. Lord MACARTNEY favoured
me with his own copy of my book, with a number of notes, of which I have availed myself. On
the first leaf I found in his Lordship's hand-writing, an inscription of such high commendation,
that even I, vain as I am, cannot prevail on myself to publish it.

July 1, 1793[78].

ADVERTISEMENT

TO THE

THIRD EDITION.

Several valuable letters, and other curious matter, having been communicated to the Author
too late to be arranged in that chronological order which he had endeavoured uniformly to observe
in his work, he was obliged to introduce them in his Second Edition, by way of ADDENDA, as
commodiously as he could. In the present edition these have been distributed in their proper
places. In revising his volumes for a new edition, he had pointed out where some of these materials
should be inserted; but unfortunately in the midst of his labours, he was seized with a fever,
of which, to the great regret of all his friends, he died on the 19th of May, 1795[79]. All
the Notes that he had written in the margin of the copy which he had in part revised, are here
faithfully preserved; and a few new Notes have been added, principally by some of those friends
to whom the Author in the former editions acknowledged his obligations. Those subscribed with
the letter B were communicated by Dr. Burney: those to which the letters J B are annexed, by
the Rev. J. Blakeway, of Shrewsbury, to whom Mr. Boswell acknowledged himself indebted for
some judicious remarks on the first edition of his work: and the letters J B-O. are annexed
to some remarks furnished by the Author's second son, a Student of Brazen-Nose College in Oxford.
Some valuable observations were communicated by James Bindley, Esq., First Commissioner in
the Stamp-Office, which have been acknowledged in their proper places. For all those without
any signature, Mr. Malone is answerable.--Every new remark, not written by the Author, for
the sake of distinction has been enclosed within crotchets: in one instance, however, the printer
by mistake has affixed this mark to a note relative to the Rev. Thomas Fysche Palmer, which
was written by Mr. Boswell. and therefore ought not to have been thus distinguished.

[Page 15: Advertisement to the Third Edition.]

I have only to add, that the proof-sheets of the present edition not having passed through
my hands, I am not answerable for any typographical errours that may be found in it. Having,
however, been printed at the very accurate press of Mr. Baldwin, I make no doubt it will be
found not less perfect than the former edition; the greatest care having been taken, by correctness
and elegance to do justice to one of the most instructive and entertaining works in the English
language.

EDMOND MALONE[80].

April 8, 1799.

A

CHRONOLOGICAL CATALOGUE

OF THE

PROSE WORKS[81] OF SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D.

[N.B. To those which he himself acknowledged is added acknowl. To those which may be fully
believed to be his from internal evidence, is added intern. evid.]

1735. Abridgement and translation of Lobo's Voyage to Abyssinia, acknowl.

1738. Part of a translation of Father Paul Sarpi's History of the Council of Trent. acknowl.

[N.B. As this work after some sheets were printed, suddenly stopped, I know not whether any
part of it is now to be found.]

For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface. intern. evid.

Life of Father Paul. acknowl.

1739. A complete vindication of the Licenser of the Stage from the malicious and scandalous
aspersions of Mr. Brooke, authour of Gustavus Vasa. acknowl.

Marmor Norfolciense: or, an Essay on an ancient prophetical inscription in monkish rhyme, lately
discovered near Lynne in Norfolk; by PROBUS BRITANNICUS. acknowl.

[Page 17: A Chronological Catalogue of Prose Works]

For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Life of Boerhaave. acknowl.

Address to the Reader. intern. evid.

Appeal to the Publick in behalf of the Editor. intern. evid.

Considerations on the case of Dr. Trapp's Sermons; a plausible attempt to prove that an authour's
work may be abridged without injuring his property. acknowl.

1740. For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface. intern. evid.

Life of Admiral Drake. acknowl.

Life of Admiral Blake. acknowl.

Life of Philip Barretier. acknowl.

Essay on Epitaphs. acknowl.

1741. For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface. intern. evid.

A free translation of the Jests of Hierocles, with an introduction. intern. evid.

Debate on the Humble Petition and Advice of the Rump Parliament to Cromwell in 1657, to assume
the Title of King; abridged, methodized and digested. intern. evid.

Translation of Abbe Guyon's Dissertation on the Amazons. intern. evid.

Translation of Fontenelle's Panegyrick on Dr. Morin. intern. evid.

1742. For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface. intern. evid.

Essay on the Account of the Conduct of the Duchess of Marlborough. acknowl.

An Account of the Life of Peter Burman. acknowl.

The Life of Sydenham, afterwards prefixed to Dr. Swan's Edition of his Works. acknowl.

Abridgement intitled, Foreign History. intern. evid.

Essay on the Description of China, from the French of Du Halde. intern. evid.

1743. Dedication to Dr. Mead of Dr. James's Medicinal Dictionary. intern. evid.

For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface, intern. evid.

Parliamentary Debates under the Name of Debates in the Senate of Lilliput, from Nov. 19, 1740,
to Feb. 23, 1742-3, inclusive. acknowl.

Considerations on the Dispute between Crousaz and Warburton on Pope's Essay on Man. intern. evid.

A Letter announcing that the Life of Mr. Savage was speedily to be published by a person who
was favoured with his Confidence. intern. evid.

Advertisement for Osborne concerning the Harleian Catalogue. intern. evid.

1744. Life of Richard Savage. acknowl.

Preface to the Harleian Miscellany. acknowl.

For the Gentleman's Magazine.

Preface. intern. evid.

1745. Miscellaneous Observations on the Tragedy of Macbeth, with remarks on Sir T.H.'s (Sir
Thomas Hanmer's) Edition of Shakspeare, and proposals for a new Edition of that Poet. acknowl.

1747. Plan for a Dictionary of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE, addressed to Philip Dormer, Earl of Chesterfield.
acknowl.

For the Gentleman's Magazine.

1748. Life of Roscommon. acknowl.

Foreign History, November. intern. evid.

For Dodsley's PRECEPTOR.

Preface. acknowl.

Vision of Theodore the Hermit. acknowl.

1750. The RAMBLER, the first Paper of which was published 20th of March this year, and the
last 17th of March 1752, the day on which Mrs. Johnson died. acknowl.

Letter in the General Advertiser to excite the attention of the Publick to the Performance
of Comus, which was next day to be acted at Drury-Lane Playhouse for the Benefit of Milton's
Grandaughter. acknowl.

Preface and Postscript to Lauder's Pamphlet intitled, 'An Essay on Milton's Use and Imitation
of the Moderns in his Paradise Lost.' acknowl.

1751. Life of Cheynel in the Miscellany called 'The Student.' acknowl.

Letter for Lauder, addressed to the Reverend Dr. John Douglas, acknowledging his Fraud concerning
Milton in Terms of suitable Contrition. acknowl.

Dedication to the Earl of Middlesex of Mrs. Charlotte Lennox's 'Female Quixotte.' intern. evid.[82]

1753. Dedication to John Earl of Orrery, of Shakspeare Illustrated, by Mrs. Charlotte Lennox.
acknowl.

During this and the following year he wrote and gave to his much loved friend Dr. Bathurst
the Papers in the Adventurer, signed T. acknowl.

1754. Life of Edw. Cave in the Gentleman's Magazine. acknowl.

1755. A DICTIONARY, with a Grammar and History, of the ENGLISH LANGUAGE. acknowl.

An Account of an Attempt to ascertain the Longitude at Sea, by an exact Theory of the Variations
of the Magnetical Needle, with a Table of the Variations at the most remarkable Cities in Europe
from the year 1660 to 1860. acknowl. This he wrote for Mr. Zachariah Williams, an ingenious
ancient Welch Gentleman, father of Mrs. Anna Williams whom he for many years kindly lodged
in his House. It was published with a Translation into Italian by Signor Baretti. In a Copy
of it which he presented to the Bodleian Library at Oxford, is pasted a Character of the late
Mr. Zachariah Williams, plainly written by Johnson. intern. evid.

1756. An Abridgement of his Dictionary. acknowl.

Several Essays in the Universal Visitor, which there is some difficulty in ascertaining. All
that are marked with two Asterisks have been ascribed to him, although I am confident from
internal Evidence, that we should except from these 'The Life of Chaucer,' 'Reflections on
the State of Portugal,' and 'An Essay on Architecture:' And from the same Evidence I am confident
that he wrote 'Further Thoughts on Agriculture,' and 'A Dissertation on the State of Literature
and Authours.' The Dissertation on the Epitaphs written by Pope he afterwards acknowledged,
and added to his 'Idler.'

Life of Sir Thomas Browne prefixed to a new Edition of his Christian Morals. acknowl.

In the Literary Magazine; or, Universal Review, which began in January 1756.

His Original Essays are

Preliminary Address, intern. evid..

An introduction to the Political State of Great Britain, intern. evid..

Remarks on the Militia Bill, intern. evid..

Observations on his Britannick Majesty's Treaties with the Empress of Russia and the Landgrave
of Hesse Cassel. intern. evid..

Observations on the Present State of Affairs. intern. evid..

Memoirs of Frederick III. King of Prussia. intern. evid..

In the same Magazine his Reviews are of the following Books:

'Birch's History of the Royal Society.'--'Browne's Christian Morals.'--'Warton's Essay on the
Writings and Genius of Pope, Vol. I.'--'Hampton's Translation of Polybius.'--'Sir Isaac Newton's
Arguments in Proof of a Deity.'--'Borlase's History of the Isles of Scilly.'--'Home's Experiments
on Bleaching.'--'Browne's History of Jamaica.'--'Hales on Distilling Sea Waters, Ventilators
in Ships, and curing an ill Taste in Milk.'--'Lucas's Essay on Waters.'--'Keith's Catalogue
of the Scottish Bishops.'--'Philosophical Transactions, Vol. XLIX.'--'Miscellanies by Elizabeth
Harrison.'--'Evans's Map and Account of the Middle Colonies in America.'--'The Cadet, a Military
Treatise.'--'The Conduct of the Ministry relating to the present War impartially examined.'
intern. evid..

'Mrs. Lennox's Translation of Sully's Memoirs.'--'Letter on the Case of Admiral Byng.'--'Appeal
to the People concerning Admiral Byng.'--'Hanway's Eight Days' Journey, and Essay on Tea.'--'Some
further Particulars in Relation to the Case of Admiral Byng, by a Gentleman of Oxford.' acknowl.

Mr. Jonas Hanway having written an angry Answer to the Review of his Essay on Tea, Johnson
in the same Collection made a Reply to it. acknowl. This is the only Instance, it is believed,
when he condescended to take Notice of any Thing that had been written against him; and here
his chief Intention seems to have been to make Sport.

Dedication to the Earl of Rochford of, and Preface to, Mr. Payne's Introduction to the Game
of Draughts, acknowl.

Introduction to the London Chronicle, an Evening Paper which still subsists with deserved credit.
acknowl.

1757. Speech on the Subject of an Address to the Throne after the Expedition to Rochefort;
delivered by one of his Friends in some publick Meeting: it is printed in the Gentleman's Magazine
for October 1785. intern. evid.

The first two Paragraphs of the Preface to Sir William Chambers's Designs of Chinese Buildings,
&c. acknowl.

1758. THE IDLER, which began April 5, in this year, and was continued till April 5, 1760. acknowl.

An Essay on the Bravery of the English Common Soldiers was added to it when published in Volumes.
acknowl.

1759. Rasselas Prince of Abyssinia, a Tale. acknowl.

Advertisement for the Proprietors of the Idler against certain Persons who pirated those Papers
as they came out singly in a Newspaper called the Universal Chronicle or Weekly Gazette. intern.
evid.

For Mrs. Charlotte Lennox's English Version of Brumoy,--'A Dissertation on the Greek Comedy,'
and the General Conclusion of the Book. intern. evid.

Introduction to the World Displayed, a Collection of Voyages and Travels. acknowl.

Three Letters in the Gazetteer, concerning the best plan for Blackfriars Bridge. acknowl.

1760. Address of the Painters to George III. on his Accession to the Throne. intern. evid.

Dedication of Baretti's Italian and English Dictionary to the Marquis of Abreu, then Envoy-Extraordinary
from Spain at the Court of Great-Britain. intern. evid.

Review in the Gentleman's Magazine of Mr. Tytler's acute and able Vindication of Mary Queen
of Scots. acknowl.

Introduction to the Proceedings of the Committee for Cloathing the French Prisoners. acknowl.

1761. Preface to Rolfs Dictionary of Trade and Commerce. acknowl.

Corrections and Improvements for Mr. Gwyn the Architect's Pamphlet, intitled 'Thoughts on the
Coronation of George III.' acknowl.

1762. Dedication to the King of the Reverend Dr. Kennedy's Complete System of Astronomical
Chronology, unfolding the Scriptures, Quarto Edition. acknowl.

Concluding Paragraph of that Work. intern. evid.

Preface to the Catalogue of the Artists' Exhibition. intern. evid.

1763.

Character of Collins in the Poetical Calendar, published by Fawkes and Woty. acknowl.

Dedication to the Earl of Shaftesbury of the Edition of Roger Ascham's English Works, published
by the Reverend Mr. Bennet. acknowl.

The Life of Ascham, also prefixed to that edition. acknowl.

Review of Telemachus, a Masque, by the Reverend George Graham of Eton College, in the Critical
Review. acknowl.

Dedication to the Queen of Mr. Hoole's Translation of Tasso. acknowl.

Account of the Detection of the Imposture of the Cock-Lane Ghost, published in the Newspapers
and Gentleman's Magazine. acknowl.

1764.

Part of a Review of Grainger's 'Sugar Cane, a Poem,' in the London Chronicle. acknowl.

Review of Goldsmith's Traveller, a Poem, in the Critical Review. acknowl.

1765.

The Plays of William Shakspeare, in eight volumes, 8vo. with Notes. acknowl.

1766.

The Fountains, a Fairy Tale, in Mrs. Williams's Miscellanies. acknowl.

1767.

Dedication to the King of Mr. Adams's Treatise on the Globes. acknowl.

1769.

Character of the Reverend Mr. Zachariah Mudge, in the London Chronicle. acknowl.

1770.

The False Alarm. acknowl.

1771.

Thoughts on the late Transactions respecting Falkland's Islands. acknowl.

1772.

Defence of a Schoolmaster; dictated to me for the House of Lords. acknowl.

Argument in Support of the Law of Vicious Intromission; dictated to me for the Court of Session
in Scotland. acknowl.

1773.

Preface to Macbean's 'Dictionary of Ancient Geography.' acknowl.

Argument in Favour of the Rights of Lay Patrons; dictated to me for the General Assembly of
the Church of Scotland. acknowl.

1774.

The Patriot. acknowl.

1775.

A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. acknowl.

Proposals for publishing the Works of Mrs. Charlotte Lennox, in Three Volumes Quarto. acknowl.

Preface to Baretti's Easy Lessons in Italian and English. intern. evid.

Taxation no Tyranny; an Answer to the Resolutions and Address of the American Congress. acknowl.

Argument on the Case of Dr. Memis; dictated to me for the Court of Session in Scotland. acknowl.

Argument to prove that the Corporation of Stirling was corrupt; dictated to me for the House
of Lords. acknowl.

1776.

Argument in Support of the Right of immediate, and personal reprehension from the Pulpit; dictated
to me. acknowl.

Proposals for publishing an Analysis of the Scotch Celtick Language, by the Reverend William
Shaw. acknowl.

1777.

Dedication to the King of the Posthumous Works of Dr. Pearce, Bishop of Rochester. acknowl.

Additions to the Life and Character of that Prelate; prefixed to those Works. acknowl.

Various Papers and Letters in Favour of the Reverend Dr. Dodd. acknowl.

1780.

Advertisement for his Friend Mr. Thrale to the Worthy Electors of the Borough of Southwark.
acknowl.

The first Paragraph of Mr. Thomas Davies's Life of Garrick, acknowl.

1781.

Prefaces Biographical and Critical to the Works of the most eminent English Poets; afterwards
published with the Title of Lives of the English Poets[83]. acknowl.

Argument on the Importance of the Registration of Deeds; dictated to me for an Election Committee
of the House of Commons. acknowl.

On the Distinction between TORY and WHIG; dictated to me. acknowl.

On Vicarious Punishments, and the great Propitiation for the Sins of the World, by JESUS CHRIST;
dictated to me. acknowl.

Argument in favour of Joseph Knight, an African Negro, who claimed his Liberty in the Court
of Session in Scotland, and obtained it; dictated to me. acknowl.

Defence of Mr. Robertson, Printer of the Caledonian Mercury, against the Society of Procurators
in Edinburgh, for having inserted in his Paper a ludicrous Paragraph against them; demonstrating
that it was not an injurious Libel; dictated to me. acknowl.

1782.

The greatest part, if not the whole, of a Reply, by the Reverend Mr. Shaw, to a Person at Edinburgh,
of the Name of Clark, refuting his arguments for the authenticity of the Poems published by
Mr. James Macpherson as Translations from Ossian. intern. evid.

1784. List of the Authours of the Universal History, deposited in the British Museum, and printed
in the Gentleman's Magazine for December, this year, acknowl.

Various Years.

Letters to Mrs. Thrale. acknowl.

Prayers and Meditations, which he delivered to the Rev. Mr. Strahan, enjoining him to publish
them, acknowl.

Sermons left for Publication by John Taylor, LL.D. Prebendary of Westminster, and given to
the World by the Reverend Samuel Hayes, A.M. intern. evid.

Such was the number and variety of the Prose Works of this extraordinary man, which I have
been able to discover, and am at liberty to mention; but we ought to keep in mind, that there
must undoubtedly have been many more which are yet concealed; and we may add to the account,
the numerous Letters which he wrote, of which a considerable part are yet unpublished. It is
hoped that those persons in whose possession they are, will favour the world with them.

JAMES BOSWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

'After my death I wish no other herald, No other speaker of my living actions, To keep mine
honour from corruption, But such an honest chronicler as Griffith[84].'

SHAKSPEARE, Henry VIII. [Act IV. Sc. 2.]

THE LIFE OF

SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D.

To write the Life of him who excelled all mankind in writing the lives of others, and who,
whether we consider his extraordinary endowments, or his various works, has been equalled by
few in any age, is an arduous, and may be reckoned in me a presumptuous task.

[Page 27: The Life by Sir J. Hawkins.]

Since my work was announced, several Lives and Memoirs of Dr. Johnson have been published[88],
the most voluminous of which is one compiled for the booksellers of London, by Sir John Hawkins,
Knight[89], a man, whom, during my long intimacy with Dr. Johnson, I never saw in his company,
I think but once, and I am sure not above twice. Johnson might have esteemed him for his decent,
religious demeanour, and his knowledge of books and literary history; but from the rigid formality
of his manners, it is evident that they never could have lived together with companionable
ease and familiarity[90]; nor had Sir John Hawkins that nice perception which was necessary
to mark the finer and less obvious parts of Johnson's character. His being appointed one of
his executors, gave him an opportunity of taking possession of such fragments of a diary and
other papers as were left; of which, before delivering them up to the residuary legatee, whose
property they were, he endeavoured to extract the substance. In this he has not been very successful,
as I have found upon a perusal of those papers, which have been since transferred to me. Sir
John Hawkins's ponderous labours, I must acknowledge, exhibit a farrago, of which a considerable
portion is not devoid of entertainment to the lovers of literary gossiping; but besides its
being swelled out with long unnecessary extracts from various works (even one of several leaves
from Osborne's Harleian Catalogue, and those not compiled by Johnson, but by Oldys), a very
small part of it relates to the person who is the subject of the book; and, in that, there
is such an inaccuracy in the statement of facts, as in so solemn an authour is hardly excusable,
and certainly makes his narrative very unsatisfactory. But what is still worse, there is throughout
the whole of it a dark uncharitable cast, by which the most unfavourable construction is put
upon almost every circumstance in the character and conduct of my illustrious friend[91]; who,
I trust, will, by a true and fair delineation, be vindicated both from the injurious misrepresentations
of this authour, and from the slighter aspersions of a lady who once lived in great intimacy
with him[92].

[Page 28: Warburton's view of biography.]

[Page 29: The author's mode of procedure.]

There is, in the British Museum, a letter from Bishop Warburton to Dr. Birch, on the subject
of biography; which, though I am aware it may expose me to a charge of artfully raising the
value of my own work, by contrasting it with that of which I have spoken, is so well conceived
and expressed, that I cannot refrain from here inserting it:--

'I shall endeavor, (says Dr. Warburton,) to give you what satisfaction I can in any thing you
want to be satisfied in any subject of Milton, and am extremely glad you intend to write his
life. Almost all the life-writers we have had before Toland and Desmaiseaux[93], are indeed
strange insipid creatures; and yet I had rather read the worst of them, than be obliged to
go through with this of Milton's, or the other's life of Boileau, where there is such a dull,
heavy succession of long quotations of disinteresting passages, that it makes their method
quite nauseous. But the verbose, tasteless Frenchman seems to lay it down as a principle, that
every life must be a book, and what's worse, it proves a book without a life; for what do we
know of Boileau, after all his tedious stuff?

[Page 31: Conversation best displays character.]

'If the biographer writes from personal knowledge, and makes haste to gratify the publick curiosity,
there is danger lest his interest, his fear, his gratitude, or his tenderness overpower his
fidelity, and tempt him to conceal, if not to invent. There are many who think it an act of
piety to hide the faults or failings of their friends, even when they can no longer suffer
by their detection; we therefore see whole ranks of characters adorned with uniform panegyrick,
and not to be known from one another but by extrinsick and casual circumstances. "Let me remember,
(says Hale,) when I find myself inclined to pity a criminal, that there is likewise a pity
due to the country." If we owe regard to the memory of the dead, there is yet more respect
to be paid to knowledge, to virtue and to truth[100].'

What I consider as the peculiar value of the following work, is, the quantity it contains of
Johnson's conversation; which is universally acknowledged to have been eminently instructive
and entertaining; and of which the specimens that I have given upon a former occasion[101],
have been received with so much approbation, that I have good grounds for supposing that the
world will not be indifferent to more ample communications of a similar nature.

That the conversation of a celebrated man, if his talents have been exerted in conversation,
will best display his character, is, I trust, too well established in the judgment of mankind,
to be at all shaken by a sneering observation of Mr. Mason, in his Memoirs of Mr. William Whitehead,
in which there is literally no Life, but a mere dry narrative of facts[102]. I do not think
it was quite necessary to attempt a depreciation of what is universally esteemed, because it
was not to be found in the immediate object of the ingenious writer's pen; for in truth, from
a man so still and so tame, as to be contented to pass many years as the domestick companion
of a superannuated lord and lady[103], conversation could no more be expected, than from a
Chinese mandarin on a chimney-piece, or the fantastick figures on a gilt leather skreen.

[Page 32: Dr. Johnson on biography.]

If authority be required, let us appeal to Plutarch, the prince of ancient biographers. [Greek:
Oute tais epiphanestatais praxesi pantos enesti daelosis aretaes ae kakias, alla pragma brachu
pollakis, kai raema, kai paidia tis emphasin aethous epoiaesen mallon ae machai murionekroi,
kai parataxeis ai megistai, kai poliorkiai poleon.] Nor is it always in the most distinguished
atchievements that men's virtues or vices may be best discerned; but very often an action of
small note, a short saying, or a jest, shall distinguish a person's real character more than
the greatest sieges, or the most important battles[104].'

To this may be added the sentiments of the very man whose life I am about to exhibit.

'The business of the biographer is often to pass slightly over those performances and incidents
which produce vulgar greatness, to lead the thoughts into domestick privacies, and display
the minute details of daily life, where exteriour appendages are cast aside, and men excel
each other only by prudence and by virtue. The account of Thuanus is with great propriety said
by its authour to have been written, that it might lay open to posterity the private and familiar
character of that man, cujus ingenium et candorem ex ipsius scriptis sunt olim semper miraturi,
whose candour and genius will to the end of time be by his writings preserved in admiration.

'There are many invisible circumstances, which whether we read as enquirers after natural or
moral knowledge, whether we intend to enlarge our science, or increase our virtue, are more
important than publick occurrences. Thus Sallust, the great master of nature, has not forgot
in his account of Catiline to remark, that his walk was now quick, and again slow, as an indication
of a mind revolving[105] with violent commotion. Thus the story of Melanchthon affords a striking
lecture on the value of time, by informing us, that when he had made an appointment, he expected
not only the hour, but the minute to be fixed, that the day might not run out in the idleness
of suspence; and all the plans and enterprises of De Witt are now of less importance to the
world than that part of his personal character, which represents him as careful of his health,
and negligent of his life.

'But biography has often been allotted to writers, who seem very little acquainted with the
nature of their task, or very negligent about the performance.

[Page 33: Reply to possible objections.]

'There are indeed, some natural reasons why these narratives are often written by such as were
not likely to give much instruction or delight, and why most accounts of particular persons
are barren and useless. If a life be delayed till interest and envy are at an end, we may hope
for impartiality, but must expect little intelligence; for the incidents which give excellence
to biography are of a volatile and evanescent kind, such as soon escape the memory, and are
transmitted[107] by tradition. For this almost superstitious reverence, I have found very old
and venerable authority, quoted by our great modern prelate, Secker, in whose tenth sermon
there is the following passage:

'Rabbi David Kimchi, a noted Jewish Commentator, who lived about five hundred years ago, explains
that passage in the first Psalm, His leaf also shall not wither, from Rabbins yet older than
himself, thus: That even the idle talk, so he expresses it, of a good man ought to be regarded;
the most superfluous things he saith are always of some value. And other ancient authours have
the same phrase, nearly in the same sense.'

[Page 34: Johnson's birth and baptism.

To those who are weak enough to think this a degrading task, and the time and labour which
have been devoted to it misemployed, I shall content myself with opposing the authority of
the greatest man of any age, JULIUS CAESAR, of whom Bacon observes, that 'in his book of Apothegms
which he collected, we see that he esteemed it more honour to make himself but a pair of tables,
to take the wise and pithy words of others, than to have every word of his own to be made an
apothegm or an oracle[109].'

Having said thus much by way of introduction, I commit the following pages to the candour of
the Publick.

[Page 35: His parentage.

[Page 36: Character of Michael Johnson.

[Page 37: An incident in his life. A.D. 1709]

There is a circumstance in his life somewhat romantick, but so well authenticated, that I shall
not omit it. A young woman of Leek, in Staffordshire, while he served his apprenticeship there,
conceived a violent passion for him; and though it met with no favourable return, followed
him to Lichfield, where she took lodgings opposite to the house in which he lived, and indulged
her hopeless flame. When he was informed that it so preyed upon her mind that her life was
in danger, he with a generous humanity went to her and offered to marry her, but it was then
too late: her vital power was exhausted; and she actually exhibited one of the very rare instances
of dying for love. She was buried in the cathedral of Lichfield; and he, with a tender regard,
placed a stone over her grave with this inscription:

Here lies the body of

Mrs. ELIZABETH BLANEY, a stranger.

She departed this life

20 of September, 1694.

[Page 38: Sarah Johnson.

In following so very eminent a man from his cradle to his grave, every minute particular, which
can throw light on the progress of his mind, is interesting. That he was remarkable, even in
his earliest years, may easily be supposed; for to use his own words in his Life of Sydenham,

'That the strength of his understanding, the accuracy of his discernment, and ardour of his
curiosity, might have been remarked from his infancy, by a diligent observer, there is no reason
to doubt.

[Page 40: Johnson's infant precocity. How false and contemptible then are all the remarks which
have been made to the prejudice either of his candour or of his philosophy, founded upon a
supposition that he was almost blind. It has been said, that he contracted this grievous malady
from his nurse[135]. In the same form with Johnson was Congreve[146], who afterwards became
chaplain to Archbishop Boulter, and by that connection obtained good preferment in Ireland.
He was a younger son of the ancient family of Congreve, in Staffordshire, of which the poet
was a branch. His brother sold the estate. From his earliest years his superiority was perceived
and acknowledged[152]. He was from the beginning [Greek: anax andron], a king of men. In short,
he is a memorable instance of what has been often observed, that the boy is the man in miniature:
and that the distinguishing characteristicks of each individual are the same, through the whole
course of life. Of this dismal inertness of disposition, Johnson had all his life too great
a share. Of these I have obtained a considerable collection, by the favour of Mr. Wentworth,
son of one of his masters, and of Mr. Hector, his school-fellow and friend; from which I select
the following specimens:

[Page 51: Johnson's youthful compositions.]

Translation of VIRGIL. Pastoral I.

MELIBOEUS.

Now, Tityrus, you, supine and careless laid, Play on your pipe beneath this beechen shade;
While wretched we about the world must roam, And leave our pleasing fields and native home,
Here at your ease you sing your amorous flame, And the wood rings with Amarillis' name.

TITYRUS.

Those blessings, friend, a deity bestow'd, For I shall never think him less than God; Oft on
his altar shall my firstlings lie, Their blood the consecrated stones shall dye: He gave my
flocks to graze the flowery meads, And me to tune at ease th' unequal reeds.

MELIBOEUS.

My admiration only I exprest, (No spark of envy harbours in my breast) That, when confusion
o'er the country reigns, To you alone this happy state remains. Here I, though faint myself,
must drive my goats, Far from their ancient fields and humble cots. This scarce I lead, who
left on yonder rock Two tender kids, the hopes of all the flock. Had we not been perverse and
careless grown, This dire event by omens was foreshown; Our trees were blasted by the thunder
stroke,   ) And left-hand crows, from an old hollow oak,    ) Foretold the coming evil by their
dismal croak. )

Translation of HORACE. Book I. Ode xxii.

The man, my friend, whose conscious heart
  With virtue's sacred ardour glows,
Nor taints with death the envenom'd dart,
  Nor needs the guard of Moorish bows:

Though Scythia's icy cliffs he treads,
  Or horrid Africk's faithless sands;
Or where the fam'd Hydaspes spreads
  His liquid wealth o'er barbarous lands.

For while by Chloe's image charm'd,
  Too far in Sabine woods I stray'd;
Me singing, careless and unarm'd,
  A grizly wolf surprised, and fled.

No savage more portentous stain'd
  Apulia's spacious wilds with gore;
No fiercer Juba's thirsty land,
  Dire nurse of raging lions, bore.

Place me where no soft summer gale
  Among the quivering branches sighs;
Where clouds condens'd for ever veil
  With horrid gloom the frowning skies:

Place me beneath the burning line,
  A clime deny'd to human race;
I'll sing of Chloe's charms divine,
  Her heav'nly voice, and beauteous face.

Translation of HORACE. Book II. Ode ix.

Clouds do not always veil the skies,
  Nor showers immerse the verdant plain;
Nor do the billows always rise,
  Or storms afflict the ruffled main.

Nor, Valgius, on th' Armenian shores
  Do the chain'd waters always freeze;
Not always furious Boreas roars,
  Or bends with violent force the trees.

But you are ever drown'd in tears,
  For Mystes dead you ever mourn;
No setting Sol can ease your care,
  But finds you sad at his return.

The wise experienc'd Grecian sage
  Mourn'd not Antilochus so long;
Nor did King Priam's hoary age
  So much lament his slaughter'd son.

Leave off, at length, these woman's sighs,
  Augustus' numerous trophies sing;
Repeat that prince's victories,
  To whom all nations tribute bring.

Niphates rolls an humbler wave,
  At length the undaunted Scythian yields,
Content to live the Roman's slave,
  And scarce forsakes his native fields.

Translation of part of the Dialogue between HECTOR and
 ANDROMACHE;
from the Sixth Book of HOMER'S ILIAD.

She ceas'd: then godlike Hector answer'd kind, (His various plumage sporting in the wind) That
post, and all the rest, shall be my care; But shall I, then, forsake the unfinished war? How
would the Trojans brand great Hector's name! And one base action sully all my fame, Acquired
by wounds and battles bravely fought! Oh! how my soul abhors so mean a thought. Long since
I learn'd to slight this fleeting breath, And view with cheerful eyes approaching death The
inexorable sisters have decreed That Priam's house, and Priam's self shall bleed: The day will
come, in which proud Troy shall yield, And spread its smoking ruins o'er the field. Yet Hecuba's,
nor Priam's hoary age, Whose blood shall quench some Grecian's thirsty rage, Nor my brave brothers,
that have bit the ground, Their souls dismiss'd through many a ghastly wound, Can in my bosom
half that grief create, As the sad thought of your impending fate: When some proud Grecian
dame shall tasks impose, Mimick your tears, and ridicule your woes; Beneath Hyperia's waters
shall you sweat, And, fainting, scarce support the liquid weight: Then shall some Argive loud
insulting cry, Behold the wife of Hector, guard of Troy! Tears, at my name, shall drown those
beauteous eyes, And that fair bosom heave with rising sighs! Before that day, by some brave
hero's hand May I lie slain, and spurn the bloody sand.

To a YOUNG LADY on her BIRTH-DAY[162].

This tributary verse receive my fair, Warm with an ardent lover's fondest pray'r. May this
returning day for ever find Thy form more lovely, more adorn'd thy mind; All pains, all cares,
may favouring heav'n remove, All but the sweet solicitudes of love! May powerful nature join
with grateful art, To point each glance, and force it to the heart! O then, when conquered
crouds confess thy sway, When ev'n proud wealth and prouder wit obey, My fair, be mindful of
the mighty trust, Alas! 'tis hard for beauty to be just. Those sovereign charms with strictest
care employ; Nor give the generous pain, the worthless joy: With his own form acquaint the
forward fool, Shewn in the faithful glass of ridicule; Teach mimick censure her own faults
to find,   ) No more let coquettes to themselves be blind,  ) So shall Belinda's charms improve
mankind.     )

THE YOUNG AUTHOUR[163].

When first the peasant, long inclin'd to roam, Forsakes his rural sports and peaceful home,
Pleas'd with the scene the smiling ocean yields, He scorns the verdant meads and flow'ry fields:
Then dances jocund o'er the watery way, While the breeze whispers, and the streamers play:
Unbounded prospects in his bosom roll, And future millions lift his rising soul; In blissful
dreams he digs the golden mine, And raptur'd sees the new-found ruby shine. Joys insincere!
thick clouds invade the skies, Loud roar the billows, high the waves arise; Sick'ning with
fear, he longs to view the shore, And vows to trust the faithless deep no more. So the young
Authour, panting after fame, And the long honours of a lasting name, Entrusts his happiness
to human kind, More false, more cruel, than the seas or wind. 'Toil on, dull croud, in extacies
he cries, For wealth or title, perishable prize; While I those transitory blessings scorn,
Secure of praise from ages yet unborn.' This thought once form'd, all council comes too late,
He flies to press, and hurries on his fate; Swiftly he sees the imagin'd laurels spread, And
feels the unfading wreath surround his head. Warn'd by another's fate, vain youth be wise,
Those dreams were Settle's[164] once, and Ogilby's[165]: The pamphlet spreads, incessant hisses
rise, To some retreat the baffled writer flies; Where no sour criticks snarl, no sneers molest,
Safe from the tart lampoon, and stinging jest; There begs of heaven a less distinguish'd lot,
Glad to be hid, and proud to be forgot.

EPILOGUE, intended to have been spoken by a LADY who was to personate the Ghost of HERMIONE[166].

Ye blooming train, who give despair or joy, Bless with a smile, or with a frown destroy; In
whose fair cheeks destructive Cupids wait, And with unerring shafts distribute fate; Whose
snowy breasts, whose animated eyes, Each youth admires, though each admirer dies; Whilst you
deride their pangs in barb'rous play, } Unpitying see them weep, and hear them pray,     }
And unrelenting sport ten thousand lives away;   } For you, ye fair, I quit the gloomy plains;
Where sable night in all her horrour reigns; No fragrant bowers, no delightful glades, Receive
the unhappy ghosts of scornful maids. For kind, for tender nymphs the myrtle blooms, And weaves
her bending boughs in pleasing glooms: Perennial roses deck each purple vale, And scents ambrosial
breathe in every gale: Far hence are banish'd vapours, spleen, and tears, Tea, scandal, ivory
teeth, and languid airs: No pug, nor favourite Cupid there enjoys The balmy kiss, for which
poor Thyrsis dies; Form'd to delight, they use no foreign arms, Nor torturing whalebones pinch
them into charms; No conscious blushes there their cheeks inflame, For those who feel no guilt
can know no shame; Unfaded still their former charms they shew, Around them pleasures wait,
and joys for ever new. But cruel virgins meet severer fates; Expell'd and exil'd from the blissful
seats, To dismal realms, and regions void of peace, Where furies ever howl, and serpents hiss.
O'er the sad plains perpetual tempests sigh, And pois'nous vapours, black'ning all the sky,
With livid hue the fairest face o'ercast, And every beauty withers at the blast: Where e'er
they fly their lover's ghosts pursue, Inflicting all those ills which once they knew; Vexation,
Fury, Jealousy, Despair, Vex ev'ry eye, and every bosom tear; Their foul deformities by all
descry'd, No maid to flatter, and no paint to hide. Then melt, ye fair, while crouds around
you sigh, Nor let disdain sit lowring in your eye; With pity soften every awful grace, And
beauty smile auspicious in each face; To ease their pains exert your milder power, So shall
you guiltless reign, and all mankind adore.'

[Page 57: His wide reading. AETAT. 19.]

The two years which he spent at home, after his return from Stourbridge, he passed in what
he thought idleness[167], and was scolded by his father for his want of steady application[168].
The analogy between body and mind is very general, and the parallel will hold as to their food,
as well as any other particular. The flesh of animals who feed excursively, is allowed to have
a higher flavour than that of those who are cooped up. May there not be the same difference
between men who read as their taste prompts and men who are confined in cells and colleges
to stated tasks?

[Page 58: Johnson enters Oxford.

[Page 59: His first tutor. AETAT. And this I said with as much nonchalance as I am now[177]
talking to you. I had no notion that I was wrong or irreverent to my tutor[178]. A.D. 1728.]

The fifth of November[180] was at that time kept with great solemnity at Pembroke College,
and exercises upon the subject of the day were required[181]. Johnson neglected to perform
his, which is much to be regretted; for his vivacity of imagination, and force of language,
would probably have produced something sublime upon the gunpowder plot[182]. To apologise for
his neglect, he gave in a short copy of verses, entitled Somnium, containing a common thought;
'that the Muse had come to him in his sleep, and whispered, that it did not become him to write
on such subjects as politicks; he should confine himself to humbler themes:' but the versification
was truly Virgilian[183].

[Page 61: Johnson's version of Pope's Messiah. AETAT.

It is said, that Mr. Pope expressed himself concerning it in terms of strong approbation[185].
A Miscellany of Poems collected by a person of the name of Husbands, was published at Oxford
in 1731[186]. In that Miscellany Johnson's Translation of the Messiah appeared, with this modest
motto from Scaliger's Poeticks. Ex alieno ingenio Poeta, ex suo tantum versificator.

[Page 62: Mr. Courtenays eulogy. A.D. 1728.]

I am not ignorant that critical objections have been made to this and other specimens of Johnson's
Latin Poetry[187]. I acknowledge myself not competent to decide on a question of such extreme
nicety. But I am satisfied with the just and discriminative eulogy pronounced upon it by my
friend Mr, Courtenay.

'And with like ease his vivid lines assume The garb and dignity of ancient Rome.-- Let college
verse-men trite conceits express, Trick'd out in splendid shreds of Virgil's dress; From playful
Ovid cull the tinsel phrase, And vapid notions hitch in pilfer'd lays: Then with mosaick art
the piece combine, And boast the glitter of each dulcet line: Johnson adventur'd boldly to
transfuse His vigorous sense into the Latian muse; Aspir'd to shine by unreflected light, And
with a Roman's ardour think and write. He felt the tuneful Nine his breast inspire, And, like
a master, wak'd the soothing lyre: Horatian strains a grateful heart proclaim, While Sky's
wild rocks resound his Thralia's name[188]. Hesperia's plant, in some less skilful hands, To
bloom a while, factitious heat demands: Though glowing Maro a faint warmth supplies, The sickly
blossom in the hot-house dies: By Johnson's genial culture, art, and toil, Its root strikes
deep, and owns the fost'ring soil; Imbibes our sun through all its swelling veins, And grows
a native of Britannia's plains[189].'

[Page 63: Johnson's 'morbid melancholy'. How wonderful, how unsearchable are the ways of GOD!
Johnson, who was blest with all the powers of genius and understanding in a degree far above
the ordinary state of human nature, was at the same time visited with a disorder so afflictive,
that they who know it by dire experience, will not envy his exalted endowments. That it was,
in some degree, occasioned by a defect in his nervous system, that inexplicable part of our
frame, appears highly probable. He told Mr. Paradise[193] that he was sometimes so languid
and inefficient, that he could not distinguish the hour upon the town-clock.

[Page 64: Johnson consults Dr. Swinfen.

[Page 65: Johnson an hypochondriack. AETAT. 20.]

But let not little men triumph upon knowing that Johnson was an HYPOCHONDRIACK, was subject
to what the learned, philosophical, and pious Dr. Cheyne has so well treated under the title
of 'The English Malady[197].' Though he suffered severely from it, he was not therefore degraded.
The powers of his great mind might be troubled, and their full exercise suspended at times;
but the mind itself was ever entire. As a proof of this, it is only necessary to consider,
that, when he was at the very worst, he composed that state of his own case, which shewed an
uncommon vigour, not only of fancy and taste, but of judgement. I am aware that he himself
was too ready to call such a complaint by the name of madness[198]; in conformity with which
notion, he has traced its gradations, with exquisite nicety, in one of the chapters of his
RASSELAS[199]. But there is surely a clear distinction between a disorder which affects only
the imagination and spirits, while the judgement is sound, and a disorder by which the judgement
itself is impaired. This distinction was made to me by the late Professor Gaubius of Leyden,
physician to the Prince of Orange, in a conversation which I had with him several years ago,
and he expanded it thus: 'If (said he) a man tells me that he is grievously disturbed, for
that he imagines he sees a ruffian coming against him with a drawn sword, though at the same
time he is conscious it is a delusion, I pronounce him to have a disordered imagination; but
if a man tells me that he sees this, and in consternation calls to me to look at it, I pronounce
him to be mad.'

[Page 66: Johnson's dread of insanity. A.D. 1729.]

It is a common effect of low spirits or melancholy, to make those who are afflicted with it
imagine that they are actually suffering those evils which happen to be most strongly presented
to their minds. Some have fancied themselves to be deprived of the use of their limbs, some
to labour under acute diseases, others to be in extreme poverty; when, in truth, there was
not the least reality in any of the suppositions; so that when the vapours were dispelled,
they were convinced of the delusion.

Amidst the oppression and distraction of a disease which very few have felt in its full extent,
but many have experienced in a slighter degree, Johnson, in his writings, and in his conversation,
never failed to display all the varieties of intellectual excellence. In his march through
this world to a better, his mind still appeared grand and brilliant, and impressed all around
him with the truth of Virgil's noble sentiment--

'Igneus est ollis vigor et coelestis origo.'[202]

[Page 67: His reluctance to go to church. A.D. 1729.]

[Page 69: Johnson grounded in religion.

This instance of a mind such as that of Johnson being first disposed, by an unexpected incident,
to think with anxiety of the momentous concerns of eternity, and of 'what he should do to be
saved[209],' may for ever be produced in opposition to the superficial and sometimes profane
contempt that has been thrown upon, those occasional impressions which it is certain many Christians
have experienced; though it must be acknowledged that weak minds, from an erroneous supposition
that no man is in a state of grace who has not felt a particular conversion, have, in some
cases, brought a degree of ridicule upon them; a ridicule of which it is inconsiderate or unfair
to make a general application.

[Page 70: Johnson's studies at Oxford. A.D. 1729.]

How seriously Johnson was impressed with a sense of religion, even in the vigour of his youth,
appears from the following passage in his minutes kept by way of diary: Sept. 7[210], 1736.
I have this day entered upon my twenty-eighth year. 'Mayest thou, O God, enable me, for JESUS
CHRIST'S sake, to spend this in such a manner that I may receive comfort from it at the hour
of death, and in the day of judgement! Amen.'

[Page 71: His rapid reading and composition.

[Page 72: Johnson's rooms in College. A.D. 1729.]

Yet he appears, from his early notes or memorandums in my possession, to have at various times
attempted, or at least planned, a methodical course of study, according to computation, of
which he was all his life fond, as it fixed his attention steadily upon something without,
and prevented his mind from preying upon itself[216]. Thus I find in his hand-writing the number
of lines in each of two of Euripides' Tragedies, of the Georgicks of Virgil, of the first six
books of the AEneid, of Horace's Art of Poetry, of three of the books of Ovid's Metamorphosis,
of some parts of Theocritus, and of the tenth Satire of Juvenal; and a table, shewing at the
rate of various numbers a day (I suppose verses to be read), what would be, in each case, the
total amount in a week, month, and year[217]. For an Athenian blockhead is the worst of all
blockheads[221].'

[Page 73: Johnson a frolicksome fellow. I find, in a parcel of loose leaves, the following
spirited resolution to contend against his natural indolence:

'Oct. 1729. Desidiae valedixi; syrenis istius cantibus surdam posthac aurem obversurus.--I
bid farewell to Sloth, being resolved henceforth not to listen to her syren strains.'

I have also in my possession a few leaves of another Libellus, or little book, entitled ANNALES,
in which some of the early particulars of his history are registered in Latin.

[Page 75: A nest of singing-birds. A.D. 1730.]

[Page 77: Johnson's worn-out shoes. How must we feel when we read such an anecdote of Samuel
Johnson!

His spirited refusal of an eleemosynary supply of shoes, arose, no doubt, from a proper pride.
But, considering his ascetick disposition at times, as acknowledged by himself in his 'Meditations,'
and the exaggeration with which some have treated the peculiarities of his character, I should
not wonder to hear it ascribed to a principle of superstitious mortification; as we are told
by Tursellinus, in his Life of St. Ignatius Loyola, that this intrepid founder of the order
of Jesuits, when he arrived at Goa, after having made a severe pilgrimage through the Eastern
deserts persisted in wearing his miserable shattered shoes, and when new ones were offered
him rejected them as an unsuitable indulgence.

[Page 78: Johnson leaves Oxford. A.D. 1731.]

The res angusta domi[234] prevented him from having the advantage of a complete academical
education[235].

[Page 79: His destitute state. AEtat 22.]

Dr. Adams, the worthy and respectable master of Pembroke College, has generally had the reputation
of being Johnson's tutor. The fact, however, is, that in 1731 Mr. Jorden quitted the College,
and his pupils were transferred to Dr. Adams; so that had Johnson returned, Dr. Adams would
have been his tutor. It is to be wished, that this connection had taken place. His equal temper,
mild disposition, and politeness of manners, might have insensibly softened the harshness of
Johnson, and infused into him those more delicate charities, those petites morales, in which,
it must be confessed, our great moralist was more deficient than his best friends could fully
justify. Dr. Adams paid Johnson this high compliment. He said to me at Oxford, in 1776, 'I
was his nominal tutor[238]; but he was above my mark.' When I repeated it to Johnson, his eyes
flashed with grateful satisfaction, and he exclaimed, 'That was liberal and noble.'

[Page 80: Michael Johnson's death.

The state of poverty in which he died, appears from a note in one of Johnson's little diaries
of the following year, which strongly displays his spirit and virtuous dignity of mind.

'1732, Julii 15. Undecim aureos deposui, quo die quicquid ante matris funus (quod serum sit
precor) de paternis bonis sperari licet, viginti scilicet libras, accepi. Usque adeo mihi fortuna
fingenda est. Interea, ne paupertate vires animi languescant, nee in flagilia egestas abigat,
cavendum.--I layed by eleven guineas on this day, when I received twenty pounds, being all
that I have reason to hope for out of my father's effects, previous to the death of my mother;
an event which I pray GOD may be very remote. I now therefore see that I must make my own fortune.

'He had mingled with the gay world without exemption from its vices or its follies; but had
never neglected the cultivation of his mind. His belief of revelation was unshaken; his learning
preserved his principles; he grew first regular, and then pious.

'His studies had been so various, that I am not able to name a man of equal knowledge. His
acquaintance with books was great, and what he did not immediately know, he could, at least,
tell where to find. Such was his amplitude of learning, and such his copiousness of communication,
that it may be doubted whether a day now passes, in which I have not some advantage from his
friendship.

And that this politeness was not merely occasional and temporary, or confined to the circles
of Lichfield, is ascertained by the testimony of a lady, who, in a paper with which I have
been favoured by a daughter of his intimate friend and physician, Dr. Lawrence, thus describes
Dr. Johnson some years afterwards:

'As the particulars of the former part of Dr. Johnson's life do not seem to be very accurately
known, a lady hopes that the following information may not be unacceptable.

[Page 83: Molly Aston. AEtat 23.]

'She remembers Dr. Johnson on a visit to Dr. Taylor, at Ashbourn, some time between the end
of the year 37, and the middle of the year 40; she rather thinks it to have been after he and
his wife were removed to London[247]. During his stay at Ashbourn, he made frequent visits
to Mr. Meynell[248], at Bradley, where his company was much desired by the ladies of the family,
who were, perhaps, in point of elegance and accomplishments, inferiour to few of those with
whom he was afterwards acquainted. Mr. Meynell's eldest daughter was afterwards married to
Mr. Fitzherbert[249], father to Mr. Alleyne Fitzherbert, lately minister to the court of Russia.
Of her, Dr. Johnson said, in Dr. Lawrence's study, that she had the best understanding he ever
met with in any human being[250]. At Mr. Meynell's he also commenced that friendship with Mrs.
Hill Boothby[251], sister to the present Sir Brook Boothby, which continued till her death.
The young woman whom he used to call Molly Aston[252], was sister to Sir Thomas Aston, and
daughter to a Baronet; she was also sister to the wife of his friend Mr. Gilbert Walmsley[253].
Besides his intimacy with the above-mentioned persons, who were surely people of rank and education,
while he was yet at Lichfield he used to be frequently at the house of Dr. Swinfen, a gentleman
of a very ancient family in Staffordshire, from which, after the death of his elder brother,
he inherited a good estate. He was, besides, a physician of very extensive practice; but for
want of due attention to the management of his domestick concerns, left a very large family
in indigence. One of his daughters, Mrs. Desmoulins, afterwards found an asylum in the house
of her old friend, whose doors were always open to the unfortunate, and who well observed the
precept of the Gospel, for he "was kind to the unthankful and to the evil[254]."'

[Page 84: Johnson an usher. Bosvortiam pedes petii[255].' But it is not true, as has been erroneously
related, that he was assistant to the famous Anthony Blackwall, whose merit has been honoured
by the testimony of Bishop Hurd[256], who was his scholar; for Mr. Blackwall died on the 8th
of April, 1730[257], more than a year before Johnson left the University[258].

[Page 85: His life in Birmingham.

[Page 86: Lobo's Voyage to Abyssinia.

In what manner he employed his pen at this period, or whether he derived from it any pecuniary
advantage, I have not been able to ascertain. He probably got a little money from Mr. Warren;
and we are certain, that he executed here one piece of literary labour, of which Mr. Hector
has favoured me with a minute account. Having mentioned that he had read at Pembroke College
a Voyage to Abyssinia, by Lobo, a Portuguese Jesuit, and that he thought an abridgment and
translation of it from the French into English might be an useful and profitable publication,
Mr. Warren and Mr. Hector joined in urging him to undertake it. He accordingly agreed; and
the book not being to be found in Birmingham, he borrowed it of Pembroke College. A part of
the work being very soon done, one Osborn, who was Mr. Warren's printer, was set to work with
what was ready, and Johnson engaged to supply the press with copy as it should be wanted; but
his constitutional indolence soon prevailed, and the work was at a stand. Mr. Hector, who knew
that a motive of humanity would be the most prevailing argument with his friend, went to Johnson,
and represented to him, that the printer could have no other employment till this undertaking
was finished, and that the poor man and his family were suffering. Johnson upon this exerted
the powers of his mind, though his body was relaxed. He lay in bed with the book, which was
a quarto, before him, and dictated while Hector wrote. Mr. Hector carried the sheets to the
press, and corrected almost all the proof sheets, very few of which were even seen by Johnson.
In this manner, with the aid of Mr. Hector's active friendship, the book was completed, and
was published in 1735, with LONDON upon the title-page, though it was in reality printed at
Birmingham, a device too common with provincial publishers. For this work he had from Mr. Warren
only the sum of five guineas[266].

This being the first prose work of Johnson, it is a curious object of inquiry how much may
be traced in it of that style which marks his subsequent writings with such peculiar excellence;
with so happy an union of force, vivacity, and perspicuity. I have perused the book with this
view, and have found that here, as I believe in every other translation, there is in the work
itself no vestige of the translator's own style; for the language of translation being adapted
to the thoughts of another person, insensibly follows their cast, and, as it were, runs into
a mould that is ready prepared[267].

Thus, for instance, taking the first sentence that occurs at the opening of the book, p. 4.

'I lived here above a year, and completed my studies in divinity; in which time some letters
were received from the fathers of Ethiopia, with an account that Sultan Segned[268], Emperour
of Abyssinia, was converted to the church of Rome; that many of his subjects had followed his
example, and that there was a great want of missionaries to improve these prosperous beginnings.
Every body was very desirous of seconding the zeal of our fathers, and of sending them the
assistance they requested; to which we were the more encouraged, because the Emperour's letter
informed our Provincial, that we might easily enter his dominions by the way of Dancala; but,
unhappily, the secretary wrote Geila[269] for Dancala, which cost two of our fathers their lives.'

Every one acquainted with Johnson's manner will be sensible that there is nothing of it here;
but that this sentence might have been composed by any other man.

But, in the Preface, the Johnsonian style begins to appear; and though use had not yet taught
his wing a permanent and equable flight, there are parts of it which exhibit his best manner
in full vigour. I had once the pleasure of examining it with Mr. Edmund Burke, who confirmed
me in this opinion, by his superiour critical sagacity, and was, I remember, much delighted
with the following specimen:

'The Portuguese traveller, contrary to the general vein of his countrymen, has amused his reader
with no romantick absurdity, or incredible fictions; whatever he relates, whether true or not,
is at least probable; and he who tells nothing exceeding the bounds of probability, has a right
to demand that they should believe him who cannot contradict him.

'He appears, by his modest and unaffected narration, to have described things as he saw them,
to have copied nature from the life, and to have consulted his senses, not his imagination.
He meets with no basilisks that destroy with their eyes, his crocodiles devour their prey without
tears, and his cataracts fall from the rocks without deafening the neighbouring inhabitants[270].

'The reader will here find no regions cursed with irremediable barrenness, or blessed with
spontaneous fecundity; no perpetual gloom, or unceasing sunshine; nor are the nations here
described either devoid of all sense of humanity, or consummate in all private or social virtues.
Here are no Hottentots without religious polity or articulate language[271]; no Chinese perfectly
polite, and completely skilled in all sciences; he will discover, what will always be discovered
by a diligent and impartial enquirer, that wherever human nature is to be found, there is a
mixture of vice and virtue, a contest of passion and reason; and that the Creator doth not
appear partial in his distributions, but has balanced, in most countries, their particular
inconveniencies by particular favours.'

Here we have an early example of that brilliant and energetick expression, which, upon innumerable
occasions in his subsequent life, justly impressed the world with the highest admiration.

Nor can any one, conversant with the writings of Johnson, fail to discern his hand in this
passage of the Dedication to John Warren, Esq. of Pembrokeshire, though it is ascribed to Warren
the bookseller:

'A generous and elevated mind is distinguished by nothing more certainly than an eminent degree
of curiosity[272]; nor is that curiosity ever more agreeably or usefully employed, than in
examining the laws and customs of foreign nations. I hope, therefore, the present I now presume
to make, will not be thought improper; which, however, it is not my business as a dedicator
to commend, nor as a bookseller to depreciate.'

It is reasonable to suppose, that his having been thus accidentally led to a particular study
of the history and manners of Abyssinia, was the remote occasion of his writing, many years
afterwards, his admirable philosophical tale[273], the principal scene of which is laid in
that country.

[Page 90: Proposals to print Politian. A.D. 1734.]

Johnson returned to Lichfield early in 1734, and in August[274] that year he made an attempt
to procure some little subsistence by his pen; for he published proposals for printing by subscription
the Latin Poems of Politian[275]: 'Angeli Politiani Poemata Latina, quibus, Notas cum historia
Latinae poeseos, a Petrarchae aevo ad Politiani tempora deducta, et vita Politiani fusius quam
antehac enarrata, addidit SAM. JOHNSON[276].'

It appears that his brother Nathanael[277] had taken up his father's trade; for it is mentioned
that 'subscriptions are taken in by the Editor, or N. Johnson, bookseller, of Lichfield.' Notwithstanding
the merit of Johnson, and the cheap price at which this book was offered, there were not subscribers
enough to insure a sufficient sale; so the work never appeared, and probably, never was executed.

[Page 91: First letter to Edward Cave. AEtat 25.]

We find him again this year at Birmingham, and there is preserved the following letter from
him to Mr. Edward Cave[278], the original compiler and editor of the Gentleman's Magazine:

TO MR. CAVE.

Nov. 25, 1734.

'Sir,

'As you appear no less sensible than your readers of the defects of your poetical article,
you will not be displeased, if, in order to the improvement of it, I communicate to you the
sentiments of a person, who will undertake, on reasonable terms, sometimes to fill a column.

'His opinion is, that the publick would not give you a bad reception, if, beside the current
wit of the month, which a critical examination would generally reduce to a narrow compass,
you admitted not only poems, inscriptions, &c. never printed before, which he will sometimes
supply you with; but likewise short literary dissertations in Latin or English, critical remarks
on authours ancient or modern, forgotten poems that deserve revival, or loose pieces, like
Floyer's[279], worth preserving. By this method, your literary article, for so it might be
called, will, he thinks, be better recommended to the publick than by low jests, awkward buffoonery,
or the dull scurrilities of either party.

'If such a correspondence will be agreeable to you, be pleased to inform me in two posts, what
the conditions are on which you shall expect it. Your late offer[280] gives me no reason to
distrust your generosity. If you engage in any literary projects besides this paper, I have
other designs to impart, if I could be secure from having others reap the advantage of what
I should hint.

[Page 92: Verses on a sprig of myrtle. A.D. 1734.]

'Your letter by being directed to S. Smith, to be left at the Castle in[281] Birmingham, Warwickshire,
will reach

'Your humble servant.'

Mr. Cave has put a note on this letter, 'Answered Dec. 2.' But whether any thing was done in
consequence of it we are not informed.

Johnson had, from his early youth, been sensible to the influence of female charms. When at
Stourbridge school, he was much enamoured of Olivia Lloyd, a young quaker, to whom he wrote
a copy of verses, which I have not been able to recover; but with what facility and elegance
he could warble the amorous lay, will appear from the following lines which he wrote for his
friend Mr. Edmund Hector.

[Page 93: Boswell's controversy with Miss Seward. AEtat 25.]

VERSES to a LADY, on receiving from her a SPRIG of MYRTLE.

'What hopes, what terrours does thy gift create, Ambiguous emblem of uncertain fate: The myrtle,
ensign of supreme command, Consign'd by Venus to Melissa's hand; Not less capricious than a
reigning fair, Now grants, and now rejects a lover's prayer. In myrtle shades oft sings the
happy swain, In myrtle shades despairing ghosts complain; The myrtle crowns the happy lovers'
heads, The unhappy lovers' grave the myrtle spreads: O then the meaning of thy gift impart,
And ease the throbbings of an anxious heart! Soon must this bough, as you shall fix his doom,
Adorn Philander's head, or grace his tomb[282].'

[Page 94: Johnson's personal appearance.

[Page 95: Mrs. Porter.

[Page 96: Johnson's marriage.

[Page 97: His School at Edial. As yet, his name had nothing of that celebrity which afterwards
commanded the highest attention and respect of mankind. Had such an advertisement appeared
after the publication of his London, or his Rambler, or his Dictionary, how would it have burst
upon the world! with what eagerness would the great and the wealthy have embraced an opportunity
of putting their sons under the learned tuition of SAMUEL JOHNSON. The art of communicating
instruction, of whatever kind, is much to be valued; and I have ever thought that those who
devote themselves to this employment, and do their duty with diligence and success, are entitled
to very high respect from the community, as Johnson himself often maintained[293]. Yet I am
of opinion that the greatest abilities are not only not required for this office, but render
a man less fit for it.

[Page 98: Garrick Johnson's pupil. A.D. 1736.]

While we acknowledge the justness of Thomson's beautiful remark,

'Delightful task! to rear the tender thought, And teach[294] the young idea how to shoot!'

we must consider that this delight is perceptible only by 'a mind at ease,' a mind at once
calm and clear; but that a mind gloomy and impetuous like that of Johnson, cannot be fixed
for any length of time in minute attention, and must be so frequently irritated by unavoidable
slowness and errour in the advances of scholars, as to perform the duty, with little pleasure
to the teacher, and no great advantage to the pupils[295]. Good temper is a most essential
requisite in a Preceptor. Horace paints the character as bland:

'... Ut pueris olim dant crustula blandi Doctores, elementa velint ut discere[296].'

[Page 99: Mrs. Johnson.

That Johnson well knew the most proper course to be pursued in the instruction of youth, is
authentically ascertained by the following paper[298] in his own hand-writing, given about
this period to a relation, and now in the possession of Mr. John Nichols:

'SCHEME for the CLASSES of a GRAMMAR SCHOOL.

'When the introduction, or formation of nouns and verbs, is perfectly mastered, let them learn:

'Corderius by Mr. Clarke, beginning at the same time to translate out of the introduction,
that by this means they may learn the syntax. Then let them proceed to:

'Erasmus, with an English translation, by the same authour.

'Class II. Learns Eutropius and Cornelius Nepos, or Justin, with the translation.

'N.B. The first class gets for their part every morning the rules which they have learned before,
and in the afternoon learns the Latin rules of the nouns and verbs.

[Page 100: A scheme of study. A.D. 1736.]

'They are examined in the rules which they have learned every Thursday and Saturday.

'The second class does the same whilst they are in Eutropius; afterwards their part is in the
irregular nouns and verbs, and in the rules for making and scanning verses. They are examined
as the first.

'Class III. Ovid's Metamorphoses in the morning, and Caesar's Commentaries in the afternoon.

'Practise in the Latin rules till they are perfect in them; afterwards in Mr. Leeds's Greek
Grammar. Examined as before.

'Afterwards they proceed to Virgil, beginning at the same time to write themes and verses,
and to learn Greek; from thence passing on to Horace, &c. as shall seem most proper.

'I know not well what books to direct you to, because you have not informed me what study you
will apply yourself to. I believe it will be most for your advantage to apply yourself wholly
to the languages, till you go to the University. The Greek authours I think it best for you
to read are these:

'Cebes. 'AElian.          } 'Lucian by Leeds. }  Attick. 'Xenophon.        } 'Homer.      
Ionick. 'Theocritus.      Dorick. 'Euripides.       Attick and Dorick.

'Thus you will be tolerably skilled in all the dialects, beginning with the Attick, to which
the rest must be referred.

'In the study of Latin, it is proper not to read the latter authours, till you are well versed
in those of the purest ages; as Terence, Tully, Caesar, Sallust, Nepos, Velleius Paterculus,
Virgil, Horace, Phaedrus.

'The greatest and most necessary task still remains, to attain a habit of expression, without
which knowledge is of little use. This is necessary in Latin, and more necessary in English;
and can only be acquired by a daily imitation of the best and correctest authours.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

While Johnson kept his academy, there can be no doubt that he was insensibly furnishing his
mind with various knowledge; but I have not discovered that he wrote any thing except a great
part of his tragedy of Irene. Mr. Peter Garrick, the elder brother of David, told me that he
remembered Johnson's borrowing the Turkish History[299] of him, in order to form his play from
it. When he had finished some part of it, he read what he had done to Mr. Walmsley, who objected
to his having already brought his heroine into great distress, and asked him, 'how can you
possibly contrive to plunge her into deeper calamity?' Johnson, in sly allusion to the supposed
oppressive proceedings of the court of which Mr. Walmsley was register, replied, 'Sir, I can
put her into the Spiritual Court!'

[Page 101: Johnson tries his fortune in London. AEtat 27.]

Mr. Walmsley, however, was well pleased with this proof of Johnson's abilities as a dramatick
writer, and advised him to finish the tragedy, and produce it on the stage.

This joint expedition of those two eminent men to the metropolis, was many years afterwards
noticed in an allegorical poem on Shakspeare's Mulberry Tree, by Mr. Lovibond, the ingenious
authour of The Tears of Old-May-day[301].

They were recommended to Mr. Colson[302], an eminent mathematician and master of an academy,
by the following letter from Mr. Walmsley:

[Page 102: Mr. Walmsley's Letter. A.D. 1737.]

'To THE REVEREND MR. COLSON.

'Lichfield, March 2, 1737.

'G. WALMSLEY.'

[Page 103: Like in London. AEtat 28.]

How he employed himself upon his first coming to London is not particularly known[304]. I never
heard that he found any protection or encouragement by the means of Mr. Colson, to whose academy
David Garrick went. Mrs. Lucy Porter told me, that Mr. Walmsley gave him a letter of introduction
to Lintot[305] his bookseller, and that Johnson wrote some things for him; but I imagine this
to be a mistake, for I have discovered no trace of it, and I am pretty sure he told me that
Mr. Cave was the first publisher by whom his pen was engaged in London.

[Page 105: An Irish Ofellus. He borrowed a horse and ten pounds at Birmingham. Finding himself
master of so much money, he set off for West Chester[310], in order to get to Ireland. He returned
the horse, and probably the ten pounds too, after he got home.'

[Page 106: Mr. Henry Hervey. A.D. 1737.]

Considering Johnson's narrow circumstances in the early part of his life, and particularly
at the interesting aera of his launching into the ocean of London, it is not to be wondered
at, that an actual instance, proved by experience of the possibility of enjoying the intellectual
luxury of social life, upon a very small income, should deeply engage his attention, and be
ever recollected by him as a circumstance of much importance.

At this period we find the following letter from him to Mr. Edward Cave, which, as a link in
the chain of his literary history, it is proper to insert:

[Page 107: Johnson returns to Lichfield. AEtat 28.]

'To MR. CAVE.

'Greenwich, next door to the Golden Heart, 'Church-street, July 12, 1737.

'SIR,

'Having observed in your papers very uncommon offers of encouragement to men of letters, I
have chosen, being a stranger in London, to communicate to you the following design, which,
I hope, if you join in it, will be of advantage to both of us.

'The History of the Council of Trent having been lately translated into French, and published
with large Notes by Dr. Le Courayer[313], the reputation of that book is so much revived in
England, that, it is presumed, a new translation of it from the Italian, together with Le Courayer's
Notes from the French, could not fail of a favourable reception.

'If it be answered, that the History is already in English, it must be remembered, that there
was the same objection against Le Courayer's undertaking, with this disadvantage, that the
French had a version by one of their best translators, whereas you cannot read three pages
of the English History without discovering that the style is capable of great improvements;
but whether those improvements are to be expected from the attempt, you must judge from the
specimen, which, if you approve the proposal, I shall submit to your examination.

'Suppose the merit of the versions equal, we may hope that the addition of the Notes will turn
the balance in our favour, considering the reputation of the Annotator.

'Be pleased to favour me with a speedy answer, if you are not willing to engage in this scheme;
and appoint me a day to wait upon you, if you are.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

It should seem from this letter, though subscribed with his own name, that he had not yet been
introduced to Mr. Cave. We shall presently see what was done in consequence of the proposal
which it contains.

[Page 108: Irene. It contains fragments of the intended plot, and speeches for the different
persons of the drama, partly in the raw materials of prose, partly worked up into verse; as
also a variety of hints for illustration, borrowed from the Greek, Roman, and modern writers.
The hand-writing is very difficult to be read, even by those who were best acquainted with
Johnson's mode of penmanship, which at all times was very particular. The King having graciously
accepted of this manuscript as a literary curiosity, Mr. Langton made a fair and distinct copy
of it, which he ordered to be bound up with the original and the printed tragedy; and the volume
is deposited in the King's library[314]. His Majesty was pleased to permit Mr. Langton to take
a copy of it for himself.

The whole of it is rich in thought and imagery, and happy expressions; and of the disjecta
membra[315] scattered throughout, and as yet unarranged, a good dramatick poet might avail
himself with considerable advantage. I shall give my readers some specimens of different kinds,
distinguishing them by the Italick character.

'Nor think to say, here will I stop, Here will I fix the limits of transgression, Nor farther
tempt the avenging rage of heaven. When guilt like this once harbours in the breast, Those
holy beings, whose unseen direction Guides through the maze of life the steps of man, Fly the
detested mansions of impiety, And quit their charge to horrour and to ruin.'

A small part only of this interesting admonition is preserved in the play, and is varied, I
think, not to advantage:

'The soul once tainted with so foul a crime,
No more shall glow with friendship's hallow'd ardour,
Those holy beings whose superior care
Guides erring mortals to the paths of virtue,
Affrighted at impiety like thine,
Resign their charge to baseness and to ruin[316].'
                           'I feel the soft infection
Flush in my cheek, and wander in my veins.
Teach me the Grecian arts of soft persuasion.'

'Sure this is love, which heretofore I conceived the dream of idle maids, and wanton poets.'

'Though no comets or prodigies foretold the ruin of Greece, signs which heaven must by another
miracle enable us to understand, yet might it be foreshewn, by tokens no less certain, by the
vices which always bring it on.'

This last passage is worked up in the tragedy itself, as follows:

LEONTIUS.

'----That power that kindly spreads The clouds, a signal of impending showers, To warn the
wand'ring linnet to the shade, Beheld, without concern, expiring Greece, And not one prodigy
foretold our fate.

DEMETRIUS.

'A thousand horrid prodigies foretold it; A feeble government, eluded laws, A factious populace,
luxurious nobles, And all the maladies of sinking States. When publick villainy, too strong
for justice, Shows his bold front, the harbinger of ruin, Can brave Leontius call for airy
wonders, Which cheats interpret, and which fools regard? When some neglected fabrick nods beneath
The weight of years, and totters to the tempest, Must heaven despatch the messengers of light,
Or wake the dead, to warn us of its fall[317]?'

MAHOMET (to IRENE). 'I have tried thee, and joy to find that thou deservest to be loved by
Mahomet,--with a mind great as his own. Sure, thou art an errour of nature, and an exception
to the rest of thy sex, and art immortal; for sentiments like thine were never to sink into
nothing. I thought all the thoughts of the fair had been to select the graces of the day, dispose
the colours of the flaunting (flowing) robe, tune the voice and roll the eye, place the gem,
choose the dress, and add new roses to the fading cheek, but--sparkling.'

[Page 110: Johnson settles in London. A.D. 1737.]

Thus in the tragedy:

'Illustrious maid, new wonders fix me thine; Thy soul completes the triumphs of thy face: I
thought, forgive my fair, the noblest aim, The strongest effort of a female soul Was but to
choose the graces of the day, To tune the tongue, to teach the eyes to roll, Dispose the colours
of the flowing robe, And add new roses to the faded cheek[318].'

I shall select one other passage, on account of the doctrine which it illustrates. As there
is something pleasingly interesting, to many, in tracing so great a man through all his different
habitations, I shall, before this work is concluded, present my readers with an exact list
of his lodgings and houses, in order of time, which, in placid condescension to my respectful
curiosity, he one evening dictated to me[321], but without specifying how long he lived at
each. In the progress of his life I shall have occasion to mention some of them as connected
with particular incidents, or with the writing of particular parts of his works. To some, this
minute attention may appear trifling; but when we consider the punctilious exactness with which
the different houses in which Milton resided have been traced by the writers of his life, a
similar enthusiasm may be pardoned in the biographer of Johnson.

[Page 111: The Gentleman's Magazine. I myself recollect such impressions from 'The Scots Magazine,'
which was begun at Edinburgh in the year 1739, and has been ever conducted with judgement,
accuracy, and propriety. I yet cannot help thinking of it with an affectionate regard. Johnson
has dignified the Gentleman's Magazine, by the importance with which he invests the life of
Cave; but he has given it still greater lustre by the various admirable Essays which he wrote
for it.

[Page 112: A list of Johnson's writings. A.D. 1738.]

Though Johnson was often solicited by his friends to make a complete list of his writings,
and talked of doing it, I believe with a serious intention that they should all be collected
on his own account, he put it off from year to year, and at last died without having done it
perfectly. I have one in his own handwriting, which contains a certain number[326]; I indeed
doubt if he could have remembered every one of them, as they were so numerous, so various,
and scattered in such a multiplicity of unconnected publications; nay, several of them published
under the names of other persons, to whom he liberally contributed from the abundance of his
mind. We must, therefore, be content to discover them, partly from occasional information given
by him to his friends, and partly from internal evidence[327].

[Page 113: Edward Cave. AEtat 29.]

His first performance in the Gentleman's Magazine, which for many years was his principal source
for employment and support, was a copy of Latin verses, in March 1738, addressed to the editor
in so happy a style of compliment, that Cave must have been destitute both of taste and sensibility
had he not felt himself highly gratified[328].

[Page 114: 'Ad Urbanum.' A.D. 1738.]

'Ad URBANUM'.

URBANE[329], nullis fesse laboribus,
URBANE, nullis victe calumniis[330],
  Cui fronte sertum in erudita
    Perpetuo viret et virebit;

Quid moliatur gens imilantium,
Quid et minetur, solicitus parum,
  Vacare solis perge Musis,
    Juxta animo studiisque felix.

Linguae procacis plumbea spicula,
Fidens, superbo frange silentio;
  Victrix per obstantes catervas
    Sedulitas animosa tendet.

Intende nervos, fortis, inanibus
Risurus olim nisibus aemuli;
  Intende jam nervos, habebis
    Participes operae Camoenas.

Non ulla Musis pagina gratior,
Quam quae severis ludicra jungere
  Novit, fatigatamque nugis
    Utilibus recreare mentem.

Texente Nymphis serta Lycoride,
Rosae ruborem sic viola adjuvat
  Immista, sic Iris refulget
    AEthereis variata fucis[331].'

S.J.

[Page 115: Reports of the Debates. AEtat 29.]

[Page 116: Libels in the press.

[Page 117: William Guthrie. He was descended of an ancient family in Scotland; but having a
small patrimony, and being an adherent of the unfortunate house of Stuart, he could not accept
of any office in the state; he therefore came to London, and employed his talents and learning
as an 'Authour by profession[335].' His writings in history, criticism, and politicks, had
considerable merit[336]. He was the first English historian who had recourse to that authentick
source of information, the Parliamentary Journals; and such was the power of his political
pen, that, at an early period, Government thought it worth their while to keep it quiet by
a pension, which he enjoyed till his death. Johnson esteemed him enough to wish that his life
should be written[337].

[Page 118: London, a Poem. A.D. 1738.]

Thus was Johnson employed during some of the best years of his life, as a mere literary labourer
'for gain, not glory[340],' solely to obtain an honest support. He however indulged himself
in occasional little sallies, which the French so happily express by the term jeux d'esprit,
and which will be noticed in their order, in the progress of this work.

[Page 119: Oldham and Johnson compared. The only instances are, in describing London as the
sink of foreign worthlessness:

'----the common shore, Where France does all her filth and ordure pour.'

OLDHAM.

'The common shore of Paris and of Rome.'

JOHNSON.

and,

'No calling or profession comes amiss, A needy monsieur can be what he please.'

OLDHAM.

'All sciences a fasting monsieur knows.'

JOHNSON.

The particulars which Oldham has collected, both as exhibiting the horrours of London, and
of the times, contrasted with better days, are different from those of Johnson, and in general
well chosen, and well exprest[343].

There are, in Oldham's imitation, many prosaick verses and bad rhymes, and his poem sets out
with a strange inadvertent blunder:

'Tho' much concern'd to leave my dear old friend, I must, however, his design commend Of fixing
in the country--.'

[Page 120: The publication of London. A.D. 1738.]

It is plain he was not going to leave his friend; his friend was going to leave him. A young
lady at once corrected this with good critical sagacity, to

'Tho' much concern'd to lose my dear old friend.'

There is one passage in the original, better transfused by Oldham than by Johnson:

'Nil habet infelix paupertas durius in se, Quam quod ridiculos homines facit;'

which is an exquisite remark on the galling meanness and contempt annexed to poverty: JOHNSON'S
imitation is,

'Of all the griefs that harass the distrest, Sure the most bitter is a scornful jest.'

OLDHAM'S, though less elegant, is more just:

'Nothing in poverty so ill is borne, As its exposing men to grinning scorn.'

Where, or in what manner this poem was composed, I am sorry that I neglected to ascertain with
precision, from Johnson's own authority. He has marked upon his corrected copy of the first
edition of it, 'Written in 1738;' and, as it was published in the month of May in that year,
it is evident that much time was not employed in preparing it for the press. The history of
its publication I am enabled to give in a very satisfactory manner; and judging from myself,
and many of my friends, I trust that it will not be uninteresting to my readers.

[Page 121: Johnson's letters to Cave. AEtat 29.]

We may be certain, though it is not expressly named in the following letters to Mr. Cave, in
1738, that they all relate to it:

                  'To MR. CAVE.

                        'Castle-street, Wednesday Morning.
                                    [No date. 1738.]

'SIR,

'When I took the liberty of writing to you a few days ago, I did not expect a repetition of
the same pleasure so soon; for a pleasure I shall always think it, to converse in any manner
with an ingenious and candid man; but having the inclosed poem in my hands to dispose of for
the benefit of the authour, (of whose abilities I shall say nothing, since I send you his performance,)
I believed I could not procure more advantageous terms from any person than from you, who have
so much distinguished yourself by your generous encouragement of poetry; and whose judgment
of that art nothing but your commendation of my trifle[344] can give me any occasion to call
in question. I do not doubt but you will look over this poem with another eye, and reward it
in a different manner, from a mercenary bookseller, who counts the lines he is to purchase[345],
and considers nothing but the bulk. I cannot help taking notice, that, besides what the authour
may hope for on account of his abilities, he has likewise another claim to your regard, as
he lies at present under very disadvantageous circumstances of fortune. I beg, therefore, that
you will favour me with a letter to-morrow, that I may know what you can afford to allow him,
that he may either part with it to you, or find out, (which I do not expect,) some other way
more to his satisfaction.

'I have only to add, that as I am sensible I have transcribed it very coarsely, which, after
having altered it, I was obliged to do, I will, if you please to transmit the sheets from the
press, correct it for you; and take the trouble of altering any stroke of satire which you
may dislike.

'By exerting on this occasion your usual generosity, you will not only encourage learning,
and relieve distress, but (though it be in comparison of the other motives of very small account)
oblige in a very sensible manner, Sir,

               'Your very humble servant,

                          'SAM. JOHNSON.'

                               'To MR. CAVE.
                                     'Monday, No. 6, Castle-street.

SIR,

'I am to return you thanks for the present you were so kind as to send by me[346], and to intreat
that you will be pleased to inform me by the penny-post[347], whether you resolve to print
the poem. If you please to send it me by the post, with a note to Dodsley, I will go and read
the lines to him, that we may have his consent to put his name in the title-page. As to the
printing, if it can be set immediately about, I will be so much the authour's friend, as not
to content myself with mere solicitations in his favour. I propose, if my calculation be near
the truth, to engage for the reimbursement of all that you shall lose by an impression of 500;
provided, as you very generously propose, that the profit, if any, be set aside for the authour's
use, excepting the present you made, which, if he be a gainer, it is fit he should repay. I
beg that you will let one of your servants write an exact account of the expense of such an
impression, and send it with the poem, that I may know what I engage for. I am very sensible,
from your generosity on this occasion, of your regard to learning, even in its unhappiest state;
and cannot but think such a temper deserving of the gratitude of those who suffer so often
from a contrary disposition. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON[348].'

[Page 122: Mrs. Carter. A.D. 1738.]

'To MR. CAVE.

[No date[349].]

'SIR,

'I waited on you to take the copy to Dodsley's: as I remember the number of lines which it
contains, it will be no longer than Eugenio[350], with the quotations, which must be subjoined
at the bottom of the page; part of the beauty of the performance (if any beauty be allowed
it) consisting in adapting Juvenal's sentiments to modern facts and persons. It will, with
those additions, very conveniently make five sheets. And since the expense will be no more,
I shall contentedly insure it, as I mentioned in my last. If it be not therefore gone to Dodsley's,
I beg it may be sent me by the penny-post, that I may have it in the evening. I have composed
a Greek epigram to Eliza[351], and think she ought to be celebrated in as many different languages
as Lewis le Grand[352]. Pray send me word when you will begin upon the poem, for it is a long
way to walk. I would leave my Epigram, but have not daylight to transcribe it[353]. I am, Sir,

'Your's, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON[354].'

[Page 123: Negotiations with Dodsley. AEtat 29.]

'TO MR. CAVE.

[No date.]

'SIR,

'I am extremely obliged by your kind letter, and will not fail to attend you to-morrow with
Irene, who looks upon you as one of her best friends.

'I was to day with Mr. Dodsley, who declares very warmly in favour of the paper you sent him,
which he desires to have a share in, it being, as he says, a creditable thing to be concerned
in. I knew not what answer to make till I had consulted you, nor what to demand on the authour's
part, but am very willing that, if you please, he should have a part in it, as he will undoubtedly
be more diligent to disperse and promote it. If you can send me word to-morrow what I shall
say to him, I will settle matters, and bring the poem with me for the press, which, as the
town empties, we cannot be too quick with. I am, Sir,

'Your's, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

[Page 124: Payment for London. A.D. 1738.]

To us who have long known the manly force, bold spirit, and masterly versification of this
poem, it is a matter of curiosity to observe the diffidence with which its authour brought
it forward into publick notice, while he is so cautious as not to avow it to be his own production;
and with what humility he offers to allow the printer to 'alter any stroke of satire which
he might dislike[355].' That any such alteration was made, we do not know. If we did, we could
not but feel an indignant regret; but how painful is it to see that a writer of such vigorous
powers of mind was actually in such distress, that the small profit which so short a poem,
however excellent, could yield, was courted as a 'relief.'

It has been generally said, I know not with what truth, that Johnson offered his London to
several booksellers, none of whom would purchase it. To this circumstance Mr. Derrick alludes
in the following lines of his Fortune, a Rhapsody:

'Will no kind patron JOHNSON own? Shall JOHNSON friendless range the town? And every publisher
refuse The offspring of his happy Muse[356]?'

But we have seen that the worthy, modest, and ingenious Mr. Robert Dodsley[357] had taste enough
to perceive its uncommon merit, and thought it creditable to have a share in it. The fact is,
that, at a future conference, he bargained for the whole property of it, for which he gave
Johnson ten guineas[358]; who told me, 'I might, perhaps, have accepted of less; but that Paul
Whitehead had a little before got ten guineas for a poem and I would not take less than Paul
Whitehead.'

[Page 125: Paul Whitehead. AEtat 29.]

I may here observe, that Johnson appeared to me to undervalue Paul Whitehead upon every occasion
when he was mentioned, and, in my opinion, did not do him justice; but when it is considered
that Paul Whitehead was a member of a riotous and profane club[359], we may account for Johnson's
having a prejudice against him. Paul Whitehead was, indeed, unfortunate in being not only slighted
by Johnson, but violently attacked by Churchill, who utters the following imprecation:

'May I (can worse disgrace on manhood fall?) Be born a Whitehead, and baptiz'd a Paul[360]!'

yet I shall never be persuaded to think meanly of the authour of so brilliant and pointed a
satire as Manners[361].

[Page 126: Was Richard Savage Thales?

[Page 128: Pope admires London.

[Page 129: Johnson a 'true-born Englishman.' AEtat 29.]

That in this justly-celebrated poem may be found a few rhymes[370] which the critical precision
of English prosody at this day would disallow, cannot be denied; but with this small imperfection,
which in the general blaze of its excellence is not perceived, till the mind has subsided into
cool attention, it is, undoubtedly, one of the noblest productions in our language, both for
sentiment and expression. The nation was then in that ferment against the court and the ministry,
which some years after ended in the downfall of Sir Robert Walpole; and as it has been said,
that Tories are Whigs when out of place, and Whigs, Tories when in place; so, as a Whig administration
ruled with what force it could, a Tory opposition had all the animation and all the eloquence
of resistance to power, aided by the common topicks of patriotism, liberty, and independence!
Accordingly, we find in Johnson's London the most spirited invectives against tyranny and oppression,
the warmest predilection for his own country, and the purest love of virtue; interspersed with
traits of his own particular character and situation, not omitting his prejudices as a 'true-born
Englishman[371],' not only against foreign countries, but against Ireland and Scotland[372].
On some of these topicks I shall quote a few passages:

[Page 130: Passages from LONDON. A.D. 1738.]

 'The cheated nation's happy fav'rites see;
  Mark whom the great caress, who frown on me.'
 'Has heaven reserv'd in pity to the poor,
  No pathless waste, or undiscover'd shore?
  No secret island in the boundless main?
  No peaceful desert yet unclaim'd by Spain?
  Quick let us rise, the happy seats explore,
  And bear Oppression's insolence no more[373].'

 'How, when competitors like these contend,
  Can surly Virtue hope to fix a friend?'

 'This mournful truth is every where confess'd,
  SLOW RISES WORTH, BY POVERTY DEPRESS'D[374]!'

We may easily conceive with what feeling a great mind like his, cramped and galled by narrow
circumstances, uttered this last line, which he marked by capitals. The whole of the poem is
eminently excellent, and there are in it such proofs of a knowledge of the world, and of a
mature acquaintance with life, as cannot be contemplated without wonder, when we consider that
he was then only in his twenty-ninth year, and had yet been so little in the 'busy haunts of
men[375].'

[Page 131: Sir Robert Walpole.

[Page 132: Appleby School.

Hawkins (Life, p. 61) says that 'Johnson went to Appleby in Aug. 1738, and offered himself
as a candidate for the mastership.' The date of 1738 seems to be Hawkins's inference. If Johnson
went at all, it was in 1739. Pope, the friend of Swift, would not of course have sought Lord
Gower's influence with Swift. He applied to his lordship, no doubt, as a great midland-county
landowner, likely to have influence with the trustees. Why, when the difficulty about the degree
of M.A. was discovered, Pope was not asked to solicit Swift cannot be known.

'Now these gentlemen do me the honour to think that I have interest enough in you, to prevail
upon you to write to Dean Swift, to persuade the University of Dublin to send a diploma to
me, constituting this poor man Master of Arts in their University. They highly extol the man's
learning and probity; and will not be persuaded, that the University will make any difficulty
of conferring such a favour upon a stranger, if he is recommended by the Dean. They say he
is not afraid of the strictest examination, though he is of so long a journey; and will venture
it, if the Dean thinks it necessary; choosing rather to die upon the road, than be starved
to death in translating for booksellers; which has been his only subsistence for some time past.

'I fear there is more difficulty in this affair, than those good-natured gentlemen apprehend;
especially as their election cannot be delayed longer than the 11th of next month. If you see
this matter in the same light that it appears to me, I hope you will burn this, and pardon
me for giving you so much trouble about an impracticable thing; but, if you think there is
a probability of obtaining the favour asked, I am sure your humanity, and propensity to relieve
merit in distress, will incline you to serve the poor man, without my adding any more to the
trouble I have already given you, than assuring you that I am, with great truth, Sir,

'Your faithful servant,

'GOWER.

'Trentham, Aug. 1, 1739.'

[Page 134: Johnson's wish to practise law. And, indeed, I cannot conceive a man better qualified
to make a distinguished figure as a lawyer; for, he would have brought to his profession a
rich store of various knowledge, an uncommon acuteness, and a command of language, in which
few could have equalled, and none have surpassed him[379]. He who could display eloquence and
wit in defence of the decision of the House of Commons upon Mr. Wilkes's election for Middlesex[380],
and of the unconstitutional taxation of our fellow-subjects in America[381], must have been
a powerful advocate in any cause. But here, also, the want of a degree was an insurmountable bar.

[Page 135: Paul Sarpi's History. AEtat 29.]

He was, therefore, under the necessity of persevering in that course, into which he had been
forced; and we find, that his proposal from Greenwich to Mr. Cave, for a translation of Father
Paul Sarpi's History, was accepted[382].

Some sheets of this translation were printed off, but the design was dropt; for it happened,
oddly enough, that another person of the name of Samuel Johnson, Librarian of St. Martin's
in the Fields, and Curate of that parish, engaged in the same undertaking, and was patronised
by the Clergy, particularly by Dr. Pearce, afterwards Bishop of Rochester. Several light skirmishes
passed between the rival translators, in the newspapers of the day; and the consequence was,
that they destroyed each other, for neither of them went on with the work. It is much to be
regretted, that the able performance of that celebrated genius FRA PAOLO, lost the advantage
of being incorporated into British literature by the masterly hand of Johnson.

[Page 136: Mr. Cave's insinuation. A.D. 1738.]

I have in my possession, by the favour of Mr. John Nichols, a paper in Johnson's hand-writing,
entitled 'Account between Mr. Edward Cave and Sam. Johnson, in relation to a version of Father
Paul, &c. begun August the 2d, 1738; 'by which it appears, that from that day to the 21st of
April, 1739, Johnson received for this work, L49 7s. in sums of one, two, three, and sometimes
four guineas at a time, most frequently two. And it is curious to observe the minute and scrupulous
accuracy with which Johnson has pasted upon it a slip of paper, which he has entitled Small
Account,' and which contains one article, 'Sept. 9th, Mr. Cave laid down 2s. 6d.' There is
subjoined to this account, a list of some subscribers to the work, partly in Johnson's handwriting,
partly in that of another person; and there follows a leaf or two on which are written a number
of characters which have the appearance of a short hand, which, perhaps, Johnson was then trying
to learn.

'To MR. CAVE.

'Wednesday.

'SIR,

'I did not care to detain your servant while I wrote an answer to your letter, in which you
seem to insinuate that I had promised more than I am ready to perform. If I have raised your
expectations by any thing that may have escaped my memory, I am sorry; and if you remind me
of it, shall thank you for the favour. If I made fewer alterations than usual in the Debates,
it was only because there appeared, and still appears to be, less need of alteration. The verses
to Lady Firebrace[383] may be had when you please, for you know that such a subject neither
deserves much thought, nor requires it.

'The Chinese Stories[384] may be had folded down when you please to send, in which I do not
recollect that you desired any alterations to be made.

'An answer to another query I am very willing to write, and had consulted with you about it
last night if there had been time; for I think it the most proper way of inviting such a correspondence
as may be an advantage to the paper, not a load upon it.

'As to the Prize Verses, a backwardness to determine their degrees of merit is not peculiar
to me. You may, if you please, still have what I can say; but I shall engage with little spirit
in an affair, which I shall hardly end to my own satisfaction, and certainly not to the satisfaction
of the parties concerned[385].

'As to Father Paul, I have not yet been just to my proposal, but have met with impediments,
which, I hope, are now at an end; and if you find the progress hereafter not such as you have
a right to expect, you can easily stimulate a negligent translator.

'If any or all of these have contributed to your discontent, I will endeavour to remove it;
and desire you to propose the question to which you wish for an answer.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

[Page 137: Impransus. AEtat 29.]

'To MR. CAVE.

[No date.]

'SIR,

'I am pretty much of your opinion, that the Commentary cannot be prosecuted with any appearance
of success; for as the names of the authours concerned are of more weight in the performance
than its own intrinsick merit, the publick will be soon satisfied with it. And I think the
Examen should be pushed forward with the utmost expedition. Thus, "This day, &c., An Examen
of Mr. Pope's Essay, &c., containing a succinct Account of the Philosophy of Mr. Leibnitz on
the System of the Fatalists, with a Confutation of their Opinions, and an Illustration of the
Doctrine of Free-will;" [with what else you think proper.]

'It will, above all, be necessary to take notice, that it is a thing distinct from the Commentary.

'I was so far from imagining they stood still[386], that I conceived them to have a good deal
before-hand, and therefore was less anxious in providing them more. But if ever they stand
still on my account, it must doubtless be charged to me; and whatever else shall be reasonable,
I shall not oppose; but beg a suspense of judgment till morning, when I must entreat you to
send me a dozen proposals, and you shall then have copy to spare.

'I am, Sir,

'Your's, impransus[387],

'SAM. JOHNSON.

'Pray muster up the Proposals if you can, or let the boy recall them from the booksellers.'

[Page 138: Mr. Macbean. A.D. 1738.]

But although he corresponded with Mr. Cave concerning a translation of Crousaz's Examen of
Pope's Essay on Man, and gave advice as one anxious for its success, I was long ago convinced
by a perusal of the Preface, that this translation was erroneously ascribed to him; and I have
found this point ascertained, beyond all doubt, by the following article in Dr. Birch's Manuscripts
in the British Museum:

'ELISAE CARTERAE. S. P. D. THOMAS BIRCH.

'Versionem tuam Examinis Crousasiani jam perlegi. Summam styli et elegantiam, et in re difficillima
proprietatem, admiratus.

'Dabam Novemb. 27 deg. 1738[388].'

Indeed Mrs. Carter has lately acknowledged to Mr. Seward, that she was the translator of the
Examen.

It is remarkable, that Johnson's last quoted letter to Mr. Cave concludes with a fair confession
that he had not a dinner; and it is no less remarkable, that, though in this state of want
himself, his benevolent heart was not insensible to the necessities of an humble labourer in
literature, as appears from the very next letter:

'To MR. CAVE.

[No date.]

'DEAR SIR,

'You may remember I have formerly talked with you about a Military Dictionary. The eldest Mr.
Macbean[389], who was with Mr. Chambers[390], has very good materials for such a work, which
I have seen, and will do it at a very low rate[391]. I think the terms of War and Navigation
might be comprised, with good explanations, in one 8vo. Pica, which he is willing to do for
twelve shillings a sheet, to be made up a guinea at the second impression. If you think on
it, I will wait on you with him.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.

'Pray lend me Topsel on Animals[392].'

[Page 139: Boethius De Consolatione. AEtat 29.]

I must not omit to mention, that this Mr. Macbean was a native of Scotland.

In the Gentleman's Magazine of this year, Johnson gave a Life of Father Paul; and he wrote
the Preface to the Volume[393], [dagger] which, though prefixed to it when bound, is always
published with the Appendix, and is therefore the last composition belonging to it. The ability
and nice adaptation with which he could draw up a prefatory address, was one of his peculiar
excellencies.

It appears too, that he paid a friendly attention to Mrs. Elizabeth Carter; for in a letter
from Mr. Cave to Dr. Birch, November 28, this year, I find 'Mr. Johnson advises Miss C. to
undertake a translation of Boethius de Cons, because there is prose and verse, and to put her
name to it when published.' This advice was not followed; probably from an apprehension that
the work was not sufficiently popular for an extensive sale. How well Johnson himself could
have executed a translation of this philosophical poet, we may judge from the following specimen
which he has given in the Rambler: (Motto to No. 7.)

'O qui perpetua mundum ratione gubernas,
 Terrarum caelique sator!
 Disjice terrenae nebulas et pondera molis,
 Atque tuo splendore mica! Tu namque serenum,
 Tu requies tranquilla piis. Te cernere finis,
 Principium, vector, dux, semita, terminus, idem.'

'O thou whose power o'er moving worlds presides,
 Whose voice created, and whose wisdom guides,
 On darkling man in pure effulgence shine,
 And cheer the clouded mind with light divine.
'Tis thine alone to calm the pious breast,
 With silent confidence and holy rest;
 From thee, great God! we spring, to thee we tend,
 Path, motive, guide, original, and end!'

[Page 140: Abridgments. A.D. 1739.]

[Page 141: Marmor Norfolciensc. AEtat 30.]

In 1739, beside the assistance which he gave to the Parliamentary Debates, his writings in
the Gentleman's Magazine[394] were, 'The Life of Boerhaave,'[*] in which it is to be observed,
that he discovers that love of chymistry[395] which never forsook him; 'An Appeal to the publick
in behalf of the Editor;'[dagger] 'An Address to the Reader;'[dagger] 'An Epigram both in Greek
and Latin to Eliza[396],'[*] and also English verses to her[397];[*] and, 'A Greek Epigram
to Dr. Birch[398].'[*] It has been erroneously supposed, that an Essay published in that Magazine
this year, entitled 'The Apotheosis of Milton,' was written by Johnson; and on that supposition
it has been improperly inserted in the edition of his works by the Booksellers, after his decease.
Were there no positive testimony as to this point, the style of the performance, and the name
of Shakspeare not being mentioned in an Essay professedly reviewing the principal English poets,
would ascertain it not to be the production of Johnson. But there is here no occasion to resort
to internal evidence; for my Lord Bishop of Salisbury (Dr. Douglas) has assured me, that it
was written by Guthrie. To this supposed prophecy he added a Commentary, making each expression
apply to the times, with warm Anti-Hanoverian zeal.

This anonymous pamphlet, I believe, did not make so much noise as was expected, and, therefore,
had not a very extensive circulation[402]. Sir John Hawkins relates[403], that, 'warrants were
issued, and messengers employed to apprehend the authour; who, though he had forborne to subscribe
his name to the pamphlet, the vigilance of those in pursuit of him had discovered;' and we
are informed, that he lay concealed in Lambeth-marsh till the scent after him grew cold. This,
however, is altogether without foundation; for Mr. Steele, one of the Secretaries of the Treasury,
who amidst a variety of important business, politely obliged me with his attention to my inquiry,
informed me, that 'he directed every possible search to be made in the records of the Treasury
and Secretary of State's Office, but could find no trace whatever of any warrant having been
issued to apprehend the authour of this pamphlet.'

[Page 142: Reprint of Marmor Norfolciensc. A.D. 1739.]

Marmor Norfolciense became exceedingly scarce, so that I, for many years, endeavoured in vain
to procure a copy of it. At last I was indebted to the malice of one of Johnson's numerous
petty adversaries, who, in 1775, published a new edition of it, 'with Notes and a Dedication
to SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D. by TRIBUNUS;' in which some puny scribbler invidiously attempted to
found upon it a charge of inconsistency against its authour, because he had accepted of a pension
from his present Majesty, and had written in support of the measures of government. As a mortification
to such impotent malice, of which there are so many instances towards men of eminence, I am
happy to relate, that this telum imbelle[404] did not reach its exalted object, till about
a year after it thus appeared, when I mentioned it to him, supposing that he knew of the re-publication.
To my surprize, he had not yet heard of it. He requested me to go directly and get it for him,
which I did. He looked at it and laughed, and seemed to be much diverted with the feeble efforts
of his unknown adversary, who, I hope, is alive to read this account.

[Page 145: His dread of solitude. AEtat 30.]

'Those motions or tricks of Dr. Johnson are improper'y called convulsions[409].

[Page 146: Hogarth meets Johnson. A.D. 1739.]

[Page 147: George the Second's cruelty.

[1740[415]: AETAT. 31.]--In 1740 he wrote for the Gentleman's Magazine the 'Preface[416],'[dagger]
'Life of Sir Francis Drake,'[*] and the first parts of those of 'Admiral Blake[417],'[*] and
of 'Philip Baretier[418],' both which he finished the following year. Dr. Johnson afterwards
gave it to me himself[424]:

'Augustus still survives in Maro's strain, And Spenser's verse prolongs Eliza's reign; Great
George's acts let tuneful Cibber sing; For Nature form'd the Poet for the King.'

[Page 150: One of Cromwell's speeches. A.D. 1741.]

In 1741[425][*] he wrote for the Gentleman's Magazine 'the Preface,'[*] 'Conclusion of his
lives of Drake and Baretier,'[dagger] 'A free translation of the Jests of Hierocles[426], with
an Introduction;'[dagger] and, I think, the following pieces: 'Debate on the Proposal of Parliament
to Cromwell, to assume the Title of King, abridged, modified, and digested[427];'[dagger] 'Translation
of Abbe Guyon's Dissertation on the Amazons;'[dagger] 'Translation of Fontenelle's Panegyrick
on Dr. Morin.'[dagger] Two notes upon this appear to me undoubtedly his. He this year, and
the two following, wrote the Parliamentary Debates. He told me himself, that he was the sole
composer of them for those three years only. He was not, however, precisely exact in his statement,
which he mentioned from hasty recollection; for it is sufficiently evident, that his composition
of them began November 19, 1740, and ended February 23, 1742-3[428].

It appears from some of Cave's letters to Dr. Birch, that Cave had better assistance for that
branch of his Magazine, than has been generally supposed; and that he was indefatigable in
getting it made as perfect as he could.

[Page 151: Cave's Parliamentary Debates. AEtat 32.]

Thus, 21st July, 1735. 'I trouble you with the inclosed, because you said you could easily
correct what is here given for Lord C----ld's[429] speech. I beg you will do so as soon as
you can for me, because the month is far advanced.'

And 15th July, 1737. 'As you remember the debates so far as to perceive the speeches already
printed are not exact, I beg the favour that you will peruse the inclosed, and, in the best
manner your memory will serve, correct the mistaken passages, or add any thing that is omitted.
I should be very glad to have something of the Duke of N--le's[430] speech, which would be
particularly of service.

'A gentleman has Lord Bathurst's speech to add something to.'

And July 3, 1744. 'You will see what stupid, low, abominable stuff is put[431] upon your noble
and learned friend's[432] character, such as I should quite reject, and endeavour to do something
better towards doing justice to the character. But as I cannot expect to attain my desires
in that respect, it would be a great satisfaction, as well as an honour to our work to have
the favour of the genuine speech. It is a method that several have been pleased to take, as
I could show, but I think myself under a restraint. I shall say so far, that I have had some
by a third hand, which I understood well enough to come from the first; others by penny-post[433],
and others by the speakers themselves, who have been pleased to visit St. John's Gate, and
show particular marks of their being pleased[434].'

[Page 152: Johnson's Parliamentary Debates. A.D. 1741.]

There is no reason, I believe, to doubt the veracity of Cave. It is, however, remarkable, that
none of these letters are in the years during which Johnson alone furnished the Debates, and
one of them is in the very year after he ceased from that labour.

He nevertheless agreed with me in thinking, that the debates which he had framed were to be
valued as orations upon questions of publick importance. They have accordingly been collected
in volumes, properly arranged, and recommended to the notice of parliamentary speakers by a
preface, written by no inferior hand[436]. I must, however, observe, that although there is
in those debates a wonderful store of political information, and very powerful eloquence, I
cannot agree that they exhibit the manner of each particular speaker, as Sir John Hawkins seems
to think. But, indeed, what opinion can we have of his judgement, and taste in publick speaking,
who presumes to give, as the characteristicks of two celebrated orators, 'the deep-mouthed
rancour of Pulteney[437], and the yelping pertinacity of Pitt[438].'

This year I find that his tragedy of Irene had been for some time ready for the stage, and
that his necessities made him desirous of getting as much as he could for it, without delay;
for there is the following letter from Mr. Cave to Dr. Birch, in the same volume of manuscripts
in the British Museum, from which I copied those above quoted. They were most obligingly pointed
out to me by Sir William Musgrave, one of the Curators of that noble repository.

[Page 153: Bibliotheca Harleiana. AEtat 32.]

'Sept. 9, 1741.

'I have put Mr. Johnson's play into Mr. Gray's[439] hands, in order to sell it to him, if he
is inclined to buy it; but I doubt whether he will or not. He would dispose of the copy, and
whatever advantage may be made by acting it. Would your society[440], or any gentleman, or
body of men that you know, take such a bargain? He and I are very unfit to deal with theatrical
persons. Fleetwood was to have acted it last season, but Johnson's diffidence or ----[441]
prevented it.'

I have already mentioned that Irene was not brought into publick notice till Garrick was manager
of Drury-lane theatre.

[Page 154: Osborne the bookseller. A.D. 1742.]

1742: AETAT. 33.--In 1742[442] he wrote for the Gentleman's Magazine the 'Preface,[dagger]
the 'Parliamentary Debates,'[*] 'Essay on the Account of the conduct of the Duchess of Marlborough,'[*]
then the popular topick of conversation. This 'Essay' is a short but masterly performance.
We find him in No. 13 of his Rambler, censuring a profligate sentiment in that 'Account[443];'
and again insisting upon it strenuously in conversation[444]. It was afterwards prefixed to
the first volume of the Catalogue, in which the Latin accounts of books were written by him.
AEtat 33.]

A very diligent observer may trace him where we should not easily suppose him to be found.
I have no doubt that he wrote the little abridgement entitled 'Foreign History,' in the Magazine
for December. To prove it, I shall quote the Introduction. 'As this is that season of the year
in which Nature may be said to command a suspension of hostilities, and which seems intended,
by putting a short stop to violence and slaughter, to afford time for malice to relent, and
animosity to subside; we can scarce expect any other accounts than of plans, negotiations and
treaties, of proposals for peace, and preparations for war.' As also this passage: 'Let those
who despise the capacity of the Swiss, tell us by what wonderful policy, or by what happy conciliation
of interests, it is brought to pass, that in a body made up of different communities and different
religions, there should be no civil commotions[448], though the people are so warlike, that
to nominate and raise an army is the same.'

I am obliged to Mr. Astle[449] for his ready permission to copy the two following letters,
of which the originals are in his possession. Their contents shew that they were written about
this time, and that Johnson was now engaged in preparing an historical account of the British
Parliament.

'To MR. CAVE.

[No date]

'Sir,

'I believe I am going to write a long letter, and have therefore taken a whole sheet of paper.
The first thing to be written about is our historical design.

'You mentioned the proposal of printing in numbers, as an alteration in the scheme, but I believe
you mistook, some way or other, my meaning; I had no other view than that you might rather
print too many of five sheets, than of five and thirty.

'With regard to what I shall say on the manner of proceeding, I would have it understood as
wholly indifferent to me, and my opinion only, not my resolution. Emptoris sit eligere.

'I think the insertion of the exact dates of the most important events in the margin, or of
so many events as may enable the reader to regulate the order of facts with sufficient exactness,
the proper medium between a journal, which has regard only to time, and a history which ranges
facts according to their dependence on each other, and postpones or anticipates according to
the convenience of narration. I think the work ought to partake of the spirit of history, which
is contrary to minute exactness, and of the regularity of a journal, which is inconsistent
with spirit. For this reason, I neither admit numbers or dates, nor reject them.

[Page 156: Payment for work. A.D. 1742.]

'I am of your opinion with regard to placing most of the resolutions &c., in the margin, and
think we shall give the most complete account of Parliamentary proceedings that can be contrived.
The naked papers, without an historical treatise interwoven, require some other book to make
them understood. I will date the succeeding facts with some exactness, but I think in the margin.
You told me on Saturday that I had received money on this work, and found set down 13L. 2s.
6d., reckoning the half guinea of last Saturday. As you hinted to me that you had many calls
for money, I would not press you too hard, and therefore shall desire only, as I send it in,
two guineas for a sheet of copy; the rest you may pay me when it may be more convenient; and
even by this sheet-payment I shall, for some time, be very expensive.

'The Life of Savage[450] I am ready to go upon; and in Great Primer, and Pica notes, I reckon
on sending in half a sheet a day; but the money for that shall likewise lye by in your hands
till it is done. With the debates, shall not I have business enough? if I had but good pens.

'Towards Mr. Savage's Life what more have you got? I would willingly have his trial, &c., and
know whether his defence be at Bristol, and would have his collection of poems, on account
of the Preface.--The Plain Dealer[451],--all the magazines that have anything of his, or relating
to him.

'I thought my letter would be long, but it is now ended; and I am, Sir,

'Yours, &c. SAM. JOHNSON.'

'The boy found me writing this almost in the dark, when I could not quite easily read yours.

'I have read the Italian--nothing in it is well.

'I had no notion of having any thing for the Inscription[452]. I hope you don't think I kept
it to extort a price. I could think of nothing, till to day. If you could spare me another
guinea for the history, I should take it very kindly, to night; but if you do not I shall not
think it an injury.--I am almost well again.'

'To MR. CAVE.

'SIR,

'You did not tell me your determination about the 'Soldier's Letter[453],' which I am confident
was never printed. I think it will not do by itself, or in any other place, so well as the
Mag. Extraordinary[454]. If you will have it at all, I believe you do not think I set it high,
and I will be glad if what you give, you will give quickly.

[Page 157: Ad Lauram pariluram Epigramma. AEtat 33.]

'You need not be in care about something to print, for I have got the State Trials, and shall
extract Layer, Atterbury, and Macclesfield from them, and shall bring them to you in a fortnight;
after which I will try to get the South Sea Report.'

[No date, nor signature]

I would also ascribe to him an 'Essay on the Description of China, from the French of Du Halde[455].[dagger]

His writings in the Gentleman's Magazine in 1743, are, the 'Preface[456],'[dagger] the 'Parliamentary
Debates,'[dagger] 'Considerations on the Dispute between Crousaz[457] and Warburton, on Pope's
Essay on Man;'[dagger] in which, while he defends Crousaz, he shews an admirable metaphysical
acuteness and temperance in controversy[458]; 'Ad Lauram parituram Epigramma[459];'[*] and,
'A Latin Translation of Pope's Verses on his Grotto[460];'[*] and, as he could employ his pen
with equal success upon a small matter as a great, I suppose him to be the authour of an advertisement
for Osborne, concerning the great Harlcian Catalogue[461].

[Page 158: Friendship, an Ode. A.D. 1743.]

But I should think myself much wanting, both to my illustrious friend and my readers, did I
not introduce here, with more than ordinary respect, an exquisitely beautiful Ode, which has
not been inserted in any of the collections of Johnson's poetry, written by him at a very early
period, as Mr. Hector informs me, and inserted in the Gentleman's Magazine of this year.

FRIENDSHIP, an ODE.[*]

'Friendship, peculiar boon of heav'n,
  The noble mind's delight and pride,
To men and angels only giv'n,
  To all the lower world deny'd.

While love, unknown among the blest,
  Parent of thousand wild desires,
The savage and the human breast
  Torments alike with raging fires;

With bright, but oft destructive, gleam,
  Alike o'er all his lightnings fly;
Thy lambent glories only beam
  Around the fav'rites of the sky.

Thy gentle flows of guiltless joys
  On fools and villains ne'er descend;
In vain for thee the tyrant sighs,
  And hugs a flatterer for a friend.

Directress of the brave and just,
  O guide us through life's darksome way!
And let the tortures of mistrust
  On selfish bosoms only prey.

Nor shall thine ardours cease to glow,
  When souls to blissful climes remove;
What rais'd our virtue here below,
  Shall aid our happiness above.'

[Page 159: Dr. James and Dr. Mead. AEtat 34.]

Johnson had now an opportunity of obliging his schoolfellow Dr. James, of whom he once observed,
'no man brings more mind to his profession.[462]' James published this year his Medicinal Dictionary,
in three volumes folio. Johnson, as I understood from him, had written, or assisted in writing,
the proposals for this work; and being very fond of the study of physick, in which James was
his master, he furnished some of the articles[463]. He, however, certainly wrote for it the
Dedication to Dr. Mead,[dagger] which is conceived with great address, to conciliate the patronage
of that very eminent man[464].

[Page 160: Dr. Birch. A.D. 1743.]

It has been circulated, I know not with what authenticity, that Johnson considered Dr. Birch
as a dull writer, and said of him, 'Tom Birch is as brisk as a bee in conversation; but no
sooner does he take a pen in his hand, than it becomes a torpedo to him, and benumbs all his
faculties[465].' That the literature of this country is much indebted to Birch's activity and
diligence must certainly be acknowledged. We have seen that Johnson honoured him with a Greek
Epigram[466]; and his correspondence with him, during many years, proves that he had no mean
opinion of him.

'To DR. BIRCH.

'Thursday, Sept. 29, 1743.

'SIR,

'I hope you will excuse me for troubling you on an occasion on which I know not whom else I
can apply to; I am at a loss for the Lives and Characters of Earl Stanhope, the two Craggs,
and the minister Sunderland; and beg that you will inform [me] where I may find them, and send
any pamphlets, &c. relating to them to Mr. Cave, to be perused for a few days by, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

His circumstances were at this time much embarrassed; yet his affection for his mother was
so warm, and so liberal, that he took upon himself a debt of her's, which, though small in
itself, was then considerable to him. This appears from the following letter which he wrote
to Mr. Levett, of Lichfield, the original of which lies now before me.

'To MR. LEVETT; IN LICHFIELD.

'December 1, 1743.

'SIR,

'I am extremely sorry that we have encroached so much upon your forbearance with respect to
the interest, which a great perplexity of affairs hindered me from thinking of with that attention
that I ought, and which I am not immediately able to remit to you, but will pay it (I think
twelve pounds,) in two months. I look upon this, and on the future interest of that mortgage,
as my own debt; and beg that you will be pleased to give me directions how to pay it, and not
mention it to my dear mother. If it be necessary to pay this in less time, I believe I can
do it; but I take two months for certainty, and beg an answer whether you can allow me so much
time. I think myself very much obliged to your forbearance, and shall esteem it a great happiness
to be able to serve you. I have great opportunities of dispersing any thing that you may think
it proper to make publick[467]. I will give a note for the money, payable at the time mentioned,
to any one here that you shall appoint. I am, Sir,

'Your most obedient,

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.

'At Mr. Osborne's, bookseller, in Gray's Inn.'

[Page 161: The Life of Savage. AEtat 35.]

[Page 162: Johnson's friendship with Savage. A.D. 1744.]

1744: AETAT. 35.--It does not appear that he wrote any thing in 1744 for the Gentleman's Magazine,
but the Preface.[Dagger] His Life of Baretier was now re-published in a pamphlet by itself.

[Page 163: Dining behind the screen. AEtat 35.]

It is melancholy to reflect, that Johnson and Savage were sometimes in such extreme indigence[473],
that they could not pay for a lodging; so that they have wandered together whole nights in
the streets[474].

[Page 164: Johnson in want of a lodging.

'MR. URBAN,

'As your collections show how often you have owed the ornaments of your poetical pages to the
correspondence of the unfortunate and ingenious Mr. Savage, I doubt not but you have so much
regard to his memory as to encourage any design that may have a tendency to the preservation
of it from insults or calumnies; and therefore, with some degree of assurance, intreat you
to inform the publick, that his life will speedily be published by a person who was favoured
with his confidence, and received from himself an account of most of the transactions which
he proposes to mention, to the time of his retirement to Swansea in Wales.

'From that period, to his death in the prison of Bristol, the account will be continued from
materials still less liable to objection; his own letters, and those of his friends, some of
which will be inserted in the work, and abstracts of others subjoined in the margin.

'It may be reasonably imagined, that others may have the same design; but as it is not credible
that they can obtain the same materials, it must be expected they will supply from invention
the want of intelligence; and that under the title of "The Life of Savage," they will publish
only a novel, filled with romantick adventures, and imaginary amours. You may therefore, perhaps,
gratify the lovers of truth and wit, by giving me leave to inform them in your Magazine, that
my account will be published in 8vo. by Mr. Roberts, in Warwick-lane[477].'

[No signature.]

[Page 165: Reynolds reads THE LIFE OF SAVAGE. AEtat 35.]

In February, 1744, it accordingly came forth from the shop of Roberts, between whom and Johnson
I have not traced any connection, except the casual one of this publication[478]. A.D. 1744.]

He exhibits the genius of Savage to the best advantage in the specimens of his poetry which
he has selected, some of which are of uncommon merit. We, indeed, occasionally find such vigour
and such point, as might make us suppose that the generous aid of Johnson had been imparted
to his friend. Mr. Thomas Warton made this remark to me; and, in support of it, quoted from
the poem entitled The Bastard, a line, in which the fancied superiority of one 'stamped in
Nature's mint with extasy[482],' is contrasted with a regular lawful descendant of some great
and ancient family:

'No tenth transmitter of a foolish face[483].'

But the fact is, that this poem was published some years before Johnson and Savage were acquainted[484].

[Page 167: Johnson's prejudice against players.

[Page 168: Garrick's mistakes in emphasis. Johnson put them right, and enjoyed his victory
with great glee.

[Page 169: A review in THE CHAMPION. AEtat 35.]

His Life of Savage was no sooner published, than the following liberal praise was given to
it, in The Champion, a periodical paper: 'This pamphlet is, without flattery to its authour,
as just and well written a piece as of its kind I ever saw; so that at the same time that it
highly deserves, it certainly stands very little in need of this recommendation. As to the
history of the unfortunate person, whose memoirs compose this work, it is certainly penned
with equal accuracy and spirit, of which I am so much the better judge, as I know many of the
facts mentioned to be strictly true, and very fairly related. Besides, it is not only the story
of Mr. Savage, but innumerable incidents relating to other persons, and other affairs, which
renders this a very amusing, and, withal, a very instructive and valuable performance. The
author's observations are short, significant, and just, as his narrative is remarkably smooth,
and well disposed. His reflections open to all the recesses of the human heart; and, in a word,
a more just or pleasant, a more engaging or a more improving treatise, on all the excellencies
and defects of human nature, is scarce to be found in our own, or, perhaps, any other language[492].'

[Page 170: Parentage of Richard Savage.

If the maxim falsum in uno, falsum in omnibus, were to be received without qualification, the
credit of Savage's narrative, as conveyed to us, would be annihilated; for it contains some
assertions which, beyond a question, are not true[494].

1. In order to induce a belief that Earl Rivers, on account of a criminal connection with whom,
Lady Macclesfield is said to have been divorced from her husband, by Act of Parliament[495],
had a peculiar anxiety about the child which she bore to him, it is alledged, that his Lordship
gave him his own name, and had it duly recorded in the register of St. Andrew's, Holborn[496].
I have carefully inspected that register, but no such entry is to be found[497].

[Page 171: Lady Macclesfield's divorce. AEtat 35.]

2. It is stated, that 'Lady Macclesfield having lived for some time upon very uneasy terms
with her husband, thought a publick confession of adultery the most obvious and expeditious
method of obtaining her liberty[498];' and Johnson, assuming this to be true, stigmatises her
with indignation, as 'the wretch who had, without scruple, proclaimed herself an adulteress[499].'
But I have perused the Journals of both houses of Parliament at the period of her divorce,
and there find it authentically ascertained, that so far from voluntarily submitting to the
ignominious charge of adultery, she made a strenuous defence by her Counsel; the bill having
been first moved 15th January, 1697, in the House of Lords, and proceeded on, (with various
applications for time to bring up witnesses at a distance, &c.) at intervals, till the 3d of
March, when it passed. It was brought to the Commons, by a message from the Lords, the 5th
of March, proceeded on the 7th, 10th, 11th, 14th, and 15th, on which day, after a full examination
of witnesses on both sides, and hearing of Counsel, it was reported without amendments, passed,
and carried to the Lords.

[Page 172: Lady Macclesfield's alleged cruelty. A.D. 1744.]

That Lady Macclesfield was convicted of the crime of which she was accused, cannot be denied;
but the question now is, whether the person calling himself Richard Savage was her son.

It has been said[500], that when Earl Rivers was dying, and anxious to provide for all his
natural children, he was informed by Lady Macclesfield that her son by him was dead. Whether,
then, shall we believe that this was a malignant lie, invented by a mother to prevent her own
child from receiving the bounty of his father, which was accordingly the consequence, if the
person whose life Johnson wrote, was her son; or shall we not rather believe that the person
who then assumed the name of Richard Savage was an impostor, being in reality the son of the
shoemaker, under whose wife's care[501] Lady Macclesfield's child was placed; that after the
death of the real Richard Savage, he attempted to personate him; and that the fraud being known
to Lady Macclesfield, he was therefore repulsed by her with just resentment?

There is a strong circumstance in support of the last supposition, though it has been mentioned
as an aggravation of Lady Macclesfield's unnatural conduct, and that is, her having prevented
him from obtaining the benefit of a legacy left to him by Mrs. Lloyd his god-mother. For if
there was such a legacy left, his not being able to obtain payment of it, must be imputed to
his consciousness that he was not the real person. The just inference should be, that by the
death of Lady Macclesfield's child before its god-mother, the legacy became lapsed, and therefore
that Johnson's Richard Savage was an impostor. If he had a title to the legacy, he could not
have found any difficulty in recovering it; for had the executors resisted his claim, the whole
costs, as well as the legacy, must have been paid by them, if he had been the child to whom
it was given[502].

[Page 173: Lord Tyrconnel. AEtat 35.]

The talents of Savage, and the mingled fire, rudeness, pride, meanness, and ferocity of his
character[503], concur in making it credible that he was fit to plan and carry on an ambitious
and daring scheme of imposture, similar instances of which have not been wanting in higher
spheres, in the history of different countries, and have had a considerable degree of success.

Yet, on the other hand, to the companion of Johnson, (who through whatever medium he was conveyed
into this world,--be it ever so doubtful 'To whom related, or by whom begot[504],' was, unquestionably,
a man of no common endowments,) we must allow the weight of general repute as to his Status
or parentage, though illicit; and supposing him to be an impostor, it seems strange that Lord
Tyrconnel, the nephew of Lady Macclesfield, should patronise him, and even admit him as a guest
in his family[505]. Lastly, it must ever appear very suspicious, that three different accounts
of the Life of Richard Savage, one published in The Plain Dealer, in 1724, another in 1727,
and another by the powerful pen of Johnson, in 1744, and all of them while Lady Macclesfield
was alive, should, notwithstanding the severe attacks upon her[506], have been suffered to
pass without any publick and effectual contradiction.

[Page 174: Lady Macclesfield's latter career. A.D. 1744.]

I have thus endeavoured to sum up the evidence upon the case, as fairly as I can; and the result
seems to be, that the world must vibrate in a state of uncertainty as to what was the truth.

This digression, I trust, will not be censured, as it relates to a matter exceedingly curious,
and very intimately connected with Johnson, both as a man and an authour[507].

[Page 175: Observations of Shakespeare. AEtat 38.]

He this year wrote the Preface to the Harleian Miscellany[508][*] The selection of the pamphlets
of which it was composed was made by Mr. Oldys[509], a man of eager curiosity and indefatigable
diligence, who first exerted that spirit of inquiry into the literature of the old English
writers, by which the works of our great dramatick poet have of late been so signally illustrated.

As we do not trace any thing else published by him during the course of this year, we may conjecture
that he was occupied entirely with that work. But the little encouragement which was given
by the publick to his anonymous proposals for the execution of a task which Warburton was known
to have undertaken, probably damped his ardour. His pamphlet, however, was highly esteemed,
and was fortunate enough to obtain the approbation even of the supercilious Warburton himself,
who, in the Preface to his Shakspeare published two years afterwards, thus mentioned it: 'As
to all those things which have been published under the titles of Essays, Remarks, Observations,
&c. on Shakspeare, if you except some critical notes on Macbeth, given as a specimen of a projected
edition, and written, as appears, by a man of parts and genius, the rest are absolutely below
a serious notice.'

Of this flattering distinction shewn to him by Warburton, a very grateful remembrance was ever
entertained by Johnson, who said, 'He praised me at a time when praise was of value to me.'

[Page 176: The Rebellion of 1745. A.D. 1746.]

1746: AETAT. 37.--In 1746 it is probable that he was still employed upon his Shakspeare, which
perhaps he laid aside for a time, upon account of the high expectations which were formed of
Warburton's edition of that great poet[511].

[Page 177: Johnson not an ardent Jacobite. AEtat 38.]

None of his letters during those years are extant, so far as I can discover. This is much to
be regretted. It might afford some entertainment to see how he then expressed himself to his
private friends, concerning State affairs. Dr. Adams informs me, that 'at this time a favourite
object which he had in contemplation was The Life of Alfred; in which, from the warmth with
which he spoke about it, he would, I believe, had he been master of his own will, have engaged
himself, rather than on any other subject.'

[Page 178: Poems wrongly assigned to Johnson. A.D. 1747.]

1747: AETAT. 38.--In 1747 it is supposed that the Gentleman's Magazine for May was enriched
by him with five[513] short poetical pieces, distinguished by three asterisks. The first is
a translation, or rather a paraphrase, of a Latin Epitaph on Sir Thomas Hanmer. Whether the
Latin was his, or not, I have never heard, though I should think it probably was, if it be
certain that he wrote the English[514]; as to which my only cause of doubt is, that his slighting
character of Hanmer as an editor, in his Observations on Macbeth, is very different from that
in the 'Epitaph.' It may be said, that there is the same contrariety between the character
in the Observations, and that in his own Preface to Shakspeare[515]; but a considerable time
elapsed between the one publication and the other, whereas the Observations and the 'Epitaph'
came close together. Yet to the Ode, in which we find a passage very characteristick of him,
being a learned description of the gout,

'Unhappy, whom to beds of pain Arthritick tyranny consigns;'

there is the following note: 'The authour being ill of the gout:' but Johnson was not attacked
with that distemper till at a very late period of his life[517]. May not this, however, be
a poetical fiction? Why may not a poet suppose himself to have the gout, as well as suppose
himself to be in love, of which we have innumerable instances, and which has been admirably
ridiculed by Johnson in his Life of Cowley[518]? I have also some difficulty to believe that
he could produce such a group of conceits[519] as appear in the verses to Lyce, in which he
claims for this ancient personage as good a right to be assimilated to heaven, as nymphs whom
other poets have flattered; he therefore ironically ascribes to her the attributes of the sky,
in such stanzas as this:

'Her teeth the night with darkness dies,
    She's starr'd with pimples o'er;
Her tongue like nimble lightning plies,
    And can with thunder roar.'

But as at a very advanced age he could condescend to trifle in namby-pamby[520] rhymes, to
please Mrs. Thrale and her daughter, he may have, in his earlier years, composed such a piece
as this.

It is remarkable, that in this first edition of The Winters Walk, the concluding line is much
more Johnsonian than it was afterwards printed; for in subsequent editions, after praying Stella
to 'snatch him to her arms,' he says,

'And shield me from the ills of life.'

[Page 180: Verses on Lord Lovat. A.D. 1747.]

Whereas in the first edition it is

'And hide me from the sight of life.'

A horrour at life in general is more consonant with Johnson's habitual gloomy cast of thought.

I have heard him repeat with great energy the following verses, which appeared in the Gentleman's
Magazine for April this year; but I have no authority to say they were his own. Indeed one
of the best criticks of our age[521] suggests to me, that 'the word indifferently being used
in the sense of without concern' and being also very unpoetical, renders it improbable that
they should have been his composition.

'On Lord LOVAT'S Execution.

'Pity'd by gentle minds KILMARNOCK died; The brave, BALMERINO, were on thy side; RADCLIFFE,
unhappy in his crimes of youth[522], Steady in what he still mistook for truth, Beheld his
death so decently unmov'd, The soft lamented, and the brave approv'd. But LOVAT'S fate[523]
indifferently we view, True to no King, to no religion true: No fair forgets the ruin he has
done; No child laments the tyrant of his son; No tory pities, thinking what he was; No whig
compassions, for he left the cause; The brave regret not, for he was not brave; The honest
mourn not, knowing him a knave[524]!'

[Page 181: A Prologue by Johnson. Like the celebrated Epilogue to the Distressed Mother,[527]
it was, during the season, often called for by the audience. The most striking and brilliant
passages of it have been so often repeated, and are so well recollected by all the lovers of
the drama and of poetry, that it would be superfluous to point them out. In the Gentleman's
Magazine for December this year, he inserted an 'Ode on Winter,' which is, I think, an admirable
specimen of his genius for lyrick poetry[528].

[Page 182: The Plan of the Dictionary.

[Page 183: Address of the Earl of Chesterfield. A.D. 1747.]

It is worthy of observation, that the Plan has not only the substantial merit of comprehension,
perspicuity, and precision, but that the language of it is unexceptionably excellent; it being
altogether free from that inflation of style, and those uncommon but apt and energetick words[535],
which in some of his writings have been censured, with more petulance than justice; and never
was there a more dignified strain of compliment than that in which he courts the attention
of one who, he had been persuaded to believe, would be a respectable patron.

'With regard to questions of purity or propriety, (says he) I was once in doubt whether I should
not attribute to myself too much in attempting to decide them, and whether my province was
to extend beyond the proposition of the question, and the display of the suffrages on each
side; but I have been since determined by your Lordship's opinion, to interpose my own judgement,
and shall therefore endeavour to support what appears to me most consonant to grammar and reason.

'And I may hope, my Lord, that since you, whose authority in our language is so generally acknowledged,
have commissioned me to declare my own opinion, I shall be considered as exercising a kind
of vicarious jurisdiction; and that the power which might have been denied to my own claim,
will be readily allowed me as the delegate of your Lordship.'

[Page 185: The Earl of Orrery. AEtat 38.]

This passage proves, that Johnson's addressing his Plan to Lord Chesterfield was not merely
in consequence of the result of a report by means of Dodsley, that the Earl favoured the design;
but that there had been a particular communication with his Lordship concerning it. Dr. Taylor
told me, that Johnson sent his Plan to him in manuscript, for his perusal; and that when it
was lying upon his table, Mr. William Whitehead[537] happened to pay him a visit, and being
shewn it, was highly pleased with such parts of it as he had time to read, and begged to take
it home with him, which he was allowed to do; that from him it got into the hands of a noble
Lord, who carried it to Lord Chesterfield[538]. When Taylor observed this might be an advantage,
Johnson replied, 'No, Sir; it would have come out with more bloom, if it had not been seen
before by any body.'

The opinion conceived of it by another noble authour, appears from the following extract of
a letter from the Earl of Orrery to Dr. Birch:

'Caledon, Dec. 30, 1747.

'I have just now seen the specimen of Mr. Johnson's Dictionary, addressed to Lord Chesterfield.
I am much pleased with the plan, and I think the specimen is one of the best that I have ever
read. Most specimens disgust, rather than prejudice us in favour of the work to follow; but
the language of Mr. Johnson's is good, and the arguments are properly and modestly expressed.
However, some expressions may be cavilled at, but they are trifles. I'll mention one. The barren
Laurel. The laurel is not barren, in any sense whatever; it bears fruits and flowers[539].
Sed hae sunt nugae, and I have great expectation from the performance[540].'

That he was fully aware of the arduous nature of the undertaking, he acknowledges; and shews
himself perfectly sensible of it in the conclusion of his Plan[541]; but he had a noble consciousness
of his own abilities, which enabled him to go on with undaunted spirit[542].

[Page 186: The Dictionary of the French Academy.

The publick has had, from another pen[545], a long detail of what had been done in this country
by prior Lexicographers; and no doubt Johnson was wise to avail himself of them, so far as
they went: but the learned, yet judicious research of etymology[546], the various, yet accurate
display of definition, and the rich collection of authorities, were reserved for the superior
mind of our great philologist[547].

[Page 187: Johnson's amanuenses.

[Page 188: The upper room in Gough-square. A.D. 1748.]

[Page 189: Authours quoted in THE DICTIONARY. I have seen several of them, in which that trouble
had not been taken; so that they were just as when used by the copyists[555].

[Page 190: The Ivy Lane Club. A.D. 1748.]

[Page 191: Mr. John Hawkins, an attorney.

[Page 192: The Vision of Theodore. A.D. 1749.]

In the Gentleman's Magazine for May of this year he wrote a 'Life of Roscommon,'[*] with Notes,
which he afterwards much improved, indented the notes into text, and inserted it amongst his
Lives of the English Poets.

Mr. Dodsley this year brought out his Preceptor, one of the most valuable books for the improvement
of young minds that has appeared in any language; and to this meritorious work Johnson furnished
'The Preface,'[*] containing a general sketch of the book, with a short and perspicuous recommendation
of each article; as also, 'The Vision of Theodore the Hermit, found in his Cell,'[*] a most
beautiful allegory of human life, under the figure of ascending the mountain of Existence.
The Bishop of Dromore heard Dr. Johnson say, that he thought this was the best thing he ever
wrote[563]. He, I believe, composed it the preceding year[565].

It will be observed, that he reserves to himself the right of printing one edition of this
satire, which was his practice upon occasion of the sale of all his writings; it being his
fixed intention to publish at some period, for his own profit, a complete collection of his
works[569]. A.D. 1749.]

But The Vanity of Human Wishes is, in the opinion of the best judges, as high an effort of
ethick poetry as any language can shew. The instances of variety of disappointment are chosen
so judiciously and painted so strongly, that, the moment they are read, they bring conviction
to every thinking mind. That of the scholar must have depressed the too sanguine expectations
of many an ambitious student[572]. That of the warrior, Charles of Sweden, is, I think, as
highly finished a picture as can possibly be conceived.

[Page 195: The conclusion of Johnson's poem. AEtat 40.]

Were all the other excellencies of this poem annihilated, it must ever have our grateful reverence
from its noble conclusion; in which we are consoled with the assurance that happiness may be
attained, if we 'apply our hearts[573]' to piety:

'Where then shall hope and fear their objects find? Shall dull suspense corrupt the stagnant
mind? Must helpless man, in ignorance sedate, Roll darkling down the torrent of his fate? Shall
no dislike alarm, no wishes rise, No cries attempt the mercy of the skies? Enthusiast[574],
cease; petitions yet remain, Which Heav'n may hear, nor deem Religion vain. Still raise for
good the supplicating voice, But leave to Heaven the measure and the choice. Safe in His hand,
whose eye discerns afar The secret ambush of a specious pray'r; Implore His aid, in His decisions
rest, Secure whate'er He gives He gives the best. These goods for man the laws of Heaven ordain,
These goods He grants, who grants the power to gain; With these celestial wisdom calms the
mind, And makes the happiness she does not find.'

[Page 196: IRENE on the stage.

[Page 197: The Epilogue to IRENE. The audience cried out "Murder! Murder[580]!" The Epilogue,
as Johnson informed me, was written by Sir William Yonge[582].

[Page 198: IRENE as a poem. A.D. 1749.]

[Page 199: Johnson no tragedy-writer. AEtat 40.]

Irene, considered as a poem, is intitled to the praise of superiour excellence[586]. Analysed
into parts, it will furnish a rich store of noble sentiments, fine imagery, and beautiful language;
but it is deficient in pathos, in that delicate power of touching the human feelings, which
is the principal end of the drama[587]. Indeed Garrick has complained to me, that Johnson not
only had not the faculty of producing the impressions of tragedy, but that he had not the sensibility
to perceive them. His great friend Mr. Walmsley's prediction, that he would 'turn out a fine
tragedy-writer[588],' was, therefore, ill-founded. Johnson was wise enough to be convinced
that he had not the talents necessary to write successfully for the stage, and never made another
attempt in that species of composition[589].

[Page 200: Deference for the general opinion. 44 and 100 by Mrs. Elizabeth Carter.

[Page 204: Johnson's rapid composition.

[Page 205: Hints for the Rambler. AEtat 42.]

Yet he was not altogether unprepared as a periodical writer; for I have in my possession a
small duodecimo volume, in which he has written, in the form of Mr. Locke's Common-Place Book,
a variety of hints for essays on different subjects. He has marked upon the first blank leaf
of it, 'To the 128th page, collections for the Rambler;' and in another place, 'In fifty-two
there were seventeen provided; in 97-21; in 190-25.' At a subsequent period (probably after
the work was finished) he added, 'In all, taken of provided materials, 30[611].'

Sir John Hawkins, who is unlucky upon all occasions, tells us, that 'this method of accumulating
intelligence had been practised by Mr. Addison, and is humourously described in one of the
Spectators[612], wherein he feigns to have dropped his paper of notanda, consisting of a diverting
medley of broken sentences and loose hints, which he tells us he had collected, and meant to
make use of. Much of the same kind is Johnson's Adversaria[613]'. But the truth is, that there
is no resemblance at all between them. Addison's note was a fiction, in which unconnected fragments
of his lucubrations were purposely jumbled together, in as odd a manner as he could, in order
to produce a laughable effect. Whereas Johnson's abbreviations are all distinct, and applicable
to each subject of which the head is mentioned.

For instance, there is the following specimen:

Youth's Entry, &c.

'Baxter's account of things in which he had changed his mind as he grew up. Voluminous.--No
wonder.--If every man was to tell, or mark, on how many subjects he has changed, it would make
vols. but the changes not always observed by man's self.--From pleasure to bus. [business]
to quiet; from thoughtfulness to reflect. to piety; from dissipation to domestic. by impercept.
gradat. but the change is certain. Dial[614] non progredi, progress. esse conspicimus. Look
back, consider what was thought at some dist. period.

'Hope predom. in youth. Mind not willingly indulges unpleasing thoughts. The world lies all
enameled before him, as a distant prospect sun-gilt[615]; inequalities only found by coming
to it. Love is to be all joy--children excellent--Fame to be constant--caresses of the great--applauses
of the learned--smiles of Beauty.

'Fear of disgrace--bashfulness--Finds things of less importance. Miscarriages forgot like excellencies;--if
remembered, of no import. Danger of sinking into negligence of reputation. Lest the fear of
disgrace destroy activity.

[Page 206: Hints for The Rambler. A.D. 1750.]

'Confidence in himself. Long tract of life before him.--No thought of sickness.--Embarrassment
of affairs.--Distraction of family. Publick calamities.--No sense of the prevalence of bad
habits.--Negligent of time--ready to undertake--careless to pursue--all changed by time.

'Confident of others--unsuspecting as unexperienced--imagining himself secure against neglect,
never imagines they will venture to treat him ill. Ready to trust; expecting to be trusted.
Convinced by time of the selfishness, the meanness, the cowardice, the treachery of men.

'Youth ambitious, as thinking honours easy to be had.

'Different kinds of praise pursued at different periods. Of the gay in youth, dang. hurt, &c.
despised.

'Of the fancy in manhood. Ambit.--stocks--bargains.--Of the wise and sober in old age--seriousness--formality--maxims,
but general--only of the rich, otherwise age is happy--but at last every thing referred to
riches--no having fame, honour, influence, without subjection to caprice.

'Horace[616].

'Hard it would be if men entered life with the same views with which they leave it, or left
as they enter it.--No hope--no undertaking--no regard to benevolence--no fear of disgrace, &c.

'Youth to be taught the piety of age--age to retain the honour of youth.'

This, it will be observed, is the sketch of Number 196 of the Rambler. I shall gratify my readers
with another specimen:

'Confederacies difficult; why.

[Page 207: Hints for The Rambler. Scholar's friendship like ladies.

'Every man moves upon his own center, and therefore repels others from too near a contact,
though he may comply with some general laws.

Here we see the embryo of Number 45 of the Adventurer; and it is a confirmation of what I shall
presently have occasion to mention[621], that the papers in that collection marked T. were
written by Johnson.

[Page 208: The Rambler's slow sale. A.D. 1750.]

This scanty preparation of materials will not, however, much diminish our wonder at the extraordinary
fertility of his mind; for the proportion which they bear to the number of essays which he
wrote, is very small; and it is remarkable, that those for which he had made no preparation,
are as rich and as highly finished as those for which the hints were lying by him. It is also
to be observed, that the papers formed from his hints are worked up with such strength and
elegance, that we almost lose sight of the hints, which become like 'drops in the bucket.'
Indeed, in several instances, he has made a very slender use of them, so that many of them
remain still unapplied[622]. AEtat 41.]

Yet, very soon after its commencement, there were who felt and acknowledged its uncommon excellence.
Verses in its praise appeared in the newspapers; and the editor of the Gentleman's Magazine
mentions, in October, his having received several letters to the same purpose from the learned[625].
The Student, or Oxford and Cambridge Miscellany, in which Mr. Bonnell Thornton and Mr. Colman
were the principal writers, describes it as 'a work that exceeds anything of the kind ever
published in this kingdom, some of the Spectators excepted--if indeed they may be excepted.'
And afterwards, 'May the publick favours crown his merits, and may not the English, under the
auspicious reign of GEORGE the Second, neglect a man, who, had he lived in the first century,
would have been one of the greatest favourites of Augustus.' This flattery of the monarch had
no effect. It is too well known, that the second George never was an Augustus to learning or
genius[626].

[Page 210: Mrs. Johnson's praise of The Rambler.

The following letter written at this time, though not dated, will show how much pleased Johnson
was with this publication, and what kindness and regard he had for Mr. Elphinston.

[Page 211: Letters to Mr. Elphinston. AEtat 41.]

'To MR. JAMES ELPHINSTON.

[No date.]

'DEAR SIR,

'I cannot but confess the failures of my correspondence, but hope the same regard which you
express for me on every other occasion, will incline you to forgive me. I am often, very often,
ill; and, when I am well, am obliged to work: and, indeed, have never much used myself to punctuality.
You are, however, not to make unkind inferences, when I forbear to reply to your kindness;
for be assured, I never receive a letter from you without great pleasure, and a very warm sense
of your generosity and friendship, which I heartily blame myself for not cultivating with more
care. In this, as in many other cases, I go wrong, in opposition to conviction; for I think
scarce any temporal good equally to be desired with the regard and familiarity of worthy men.
I hope we shall be some time nearer to each other, and have a more ready way of pouring out
our hearts.

'I am glad that you still find encouragement to proceed in your publication, and shall beg
the favour of six more volumes to add to my former six, when you can, with any convenience,
send them me. Please to present a set, in my name, to Mr. Ruddiman[630], of whom, I hear, that
his learning is not his highest excellence. I have transcribed the mottos, and returned them,
I hope not too late, of which I think many very happily performed. Mr. Cave has put the last
in the magazine[631], in which I think he did well. I beg of you to write soon, and to write
often, and to write long letters, which I hope in time to repay you; but you must be a patient
creditor. I have, however, this of gratitude, that I think of you with regard, when I do not,
perhaps, give the proofs which I ought, of being, Sir,

'Your most obliged and

'Most humble servant.

SAM. JOHNSON.'

This year he wrote to the same gentleman another letter, upon a mournful occasion,

[Page 212: The death of a mother.

I profess myself to have ever entertained a profound veneration for the astonishing force and
vivacity of mind which the Rambler exhibits. That Johnson had penetration enough to see, and
seeing would not disguise the general misery of man in this state of being, may have given
rise to the superficial notion of his being too stern a philosopher. But men of reflection
will be sensible that he has given a true representation of human existence, and that he has,
at the same time, with a generous benevolence displayed every consolation which our state affords
us; not only those arising from the hopes of futurity, but such as may be attained in the immediate
progress through life. He has not depressed the soul to despondency and indifference. He has
every where inculcated study, labour, and exertion. Nay, he has shewn, in a very odious light,
a man whose practice is to go about darkening the views of others, by perpetual complaints
of evil, and awakening those considerations of danger and distress, which are, for the most
part, lulled into a quiet oblivion. This he has done very strongly in his character of Suspirius[636],
from which Goldsmith took that of Croaker, in his comedy of The Good-Natured Man[637], as Johnson
told me he acknowledged to him, and which is, indeed, very obvious[638].

[Page 214: The Beauties of Dr. Johnson. A.D. 1750.]

To point out the numerous subjects which the Rambler treats, with a dignity and perspicuity
which are there united in a manner which we shall in vain look for any where else, would take
up too large a portion of my book, and would, I trust, be superfluous, considering how universally
those volumes are now disseminated. Even the most condensed and brilliant sentences which they
contain, and which have very properly been selected under the name of Beauties[639], are of
considerable bulk. But I may shortly observe, that the Rambler furnishes such an assemblage
of discourses on practical religion and moral duty, of critical investigations, and allegorical
and oriental tales, that no mind can be thought very deficient that has, by constant study
and meditation, assimilated to itself all that may be found there. No. 7, written in Passion-week
on abstraction and self-examination[640], and No. 110, on penitence and the placability of
the Divine Nature, cannot be too often read. No. 54, on the effect which the death of a friend
should have upon us, though rather too dispiriting, may be occasionally very medicinal to the
mind. Every one must suppose the writer to have been deeply impressed by a real scene; but
he told me that was not the case; which shews how well his fancy could conduct him to the 'house
of mourning[641].' Some of these more solemn papers, I doubt not, particularly attracted the
notice of Dr. Young, the authour of The Night Thoughts, of whom my estimation is such, as to
reckon his applause an honour even to Johnson. I have seen some volumes of Dr. Young's copy
of the Rambler, in which he has marked the passages which he thought particularly excellent,
by folding down a corner of the page; and such as he rated in a super-eminent degree, are marked
by double folds. I am sorry that some of the volumes are lost. Johnson was pleased when told
of the minute attention with which Young had signified his approbation of his Essays.

[Page 215: A Club in Essex. AEtat 41.]

I will venture to say, that in no writings whatever can be found more bark and steel for the
mind, if I may use the expression; more that can brace and invigorate every manly and noble
sentiment. No. 32 on patience, even under extreme misery, is wonderfully lofty, and as much
above the rant of stoicism, as the Sun of Revelation is brighter than the twilight of Pagan
philosophy. I never read the following sentence without feeling my frame thrill: 'I think there
is some reason for questioning whether the body and mind are not so proportioned, that the
one can bear all which can be inflicted on the other; whether virtue cannot stand its ground
as long as life, and whether a soul well principled, will not be sooner separated than subdued[642].'

[Page 216: The character of Prospero. A.D. 1750.]

[Page 217: The Style of The Rambler. AEtat 41.]

Though instruction be the predominant purpose of the Rambler, yet it is enlivened with a considerable
portion of amusement. Nothing can be more erroneous than the notion which some persons have
entertained, that Johnson was then a retired authour, ignorant of the world; and, of consequence,
that he wrote only from his imagination when he described characters and manners. He said to
me, that before he wrote that work, he had been 'running about the world,' as he expressed
it, more than almost any body; and I have heard him relate, with much satisfaction, that several
of the characters in the Rambler were drawn so naturally, that when it first circulated in
numbers, a club in one of the towns in Essex imagined themselves to be severally exhibited
in it, and were much incensed against a person who, they suspected, had thus made them objects
of publick notice; nor were they quieted till authentick assurance was given them, that the
Rambler was written by a person who had never heard of any one of them[643]. Some of the characters
are believed to have been actually drawn from the life, particularly that of Prospero from
Garrick[644], who never entirely forgave its pointed satire[645]. For instances of fertility
of fancy, and accurate description of real life, I appeal to No. 19, a man who wanders from
one profession to another, with most plausible reasons for every change. No. 34, female fastidiousness
and timorous refinement. No. 82, a Virtuoso who has collected curiosities. No. 88[646], petty
modes of entertaining a company, and conciliating kindness. No. 182, fortune-hunting. No. 194-195,
a tutor's account of the follies of his pupil. No. 197-198, legacy-hunting.

[Page 218: Johnson's masters in style. A.D. 1750.]

[Page 219: A Great Personage. AEtat 41.]

The style of this work has been censured by some shallow criticks as involved and turgid, and
abounding with antiquated and hard words. So ill-founded is the first part of this objection,
that I will challenge all who may honour this book with a perusal, to point out any English
writer whose language conveys his meaning with equal force and perspicuity. It must, indeed,
be allowed, that the structure of his sentences is expanded, and often has somewhat of the
inversion of Latin; and that he delighted to express familiar thoughts in philosophical language;
being in this the reverse of Socrates, who, it was said, reduced philosophy to the simplicity
of common life. But let us attend to what he himself says in his concluding paper: 'When common
words were less pleasing to the ear, or less distinct in their signification, I have familiarised
the terms of philosophy, by applying them to popular ideas[647].' And, as to the second part
of this objection, upon a late careful revision of the work, I can with confidence say, that
it is amazing how few of those words, for which it has been unjustly characterised, are actually
to be found in it; I am sure, not the proportion of one to each paper. This idle charge has
been echoed from one babbler to another, who have confounded Johnson's Essays with Johnson's
Dictionary; and because he thought it right in a Lexicon of our language to collect many words
which had fallen into disuse, but were supported by great authorities, it has been imagined
that all of these have been interwoven into his own compositions. That some of them have been
adopted by him unnecessarily, may, perhaps, be allowed; but, in general they are evidently
an advantage, for without them his stately ideas would be confined and cramped. 'He that thinks
with more extent than another, will want words of larger meaning[648].' He once told me, that
he had formed his style upon that of Sir William Temple[649], and upon Chambers's Proposal
for his Dictionary[650]. He certainly was mistaken; or if he imagined at first that he was
imitating Temple, he was very unsuccessful; for nothing can be more unlike than the simplicity
of Temple, and the richness of Johnson. Their styles differ as plain cloth and brocade. Temple,
indeed, seems equally erroneous in supposing that he himself had formed his style upon Sandys's
View of the State of Religion in the Western parts of the World.

[Page 220: The motto to the Dictionary. A.D. 1750.]

We may, with the utmost propriety, apply to his learned style that passage of Horace, a part
of which he has taken as the motto to his Dictionary[653]:

'Cum tabulis animum censoris sumet honesti; Audebit quaecumque parum splendoris habebunt Et
sine pondere erunt, et honore indigna ferentur, Verba movere loco, quamvis invita recedant,
Et versentur adhuc intra penetralia Vesta. Obscurata diu populo bonus eruet, atque Proferet
in lucem speciosa vocabula rerum, Quae priscis memorala Calonibus alque Cethegis, Nunc situs
informis premit et deserta velustas: Adsciscet nova, quae genitor produxerit usus: Vehemens,
et liquidus, puroque simillimus amni, Fundet opes Latiumque beabit divile lingua.[654]'

[Page 221: Johnson not a coiner of words. AEtat 41.]

To so great a master of thinking, to one of such vast and various knowledge as Johnson, might
have been allowed a liberal indulgence of that licence which Horace claims in another place:

'Si forte necesse est Indiciis monstrare recentibus abdita rerum, Fingere cinctutis non exaudita
Cethegis Continget, dabiturque licentia sumpta pudenter: Et nova fictaque nuper habebunt verba
fidem si Graeco fonte cadant, parce detorta. Quid autem Caecilio Plautoque dabit Romanus, ademptum
Virgilio Varioque? Ego cur, acquirere pauca Si possum, invideor; cum lingua Catonis et Enni
Sermonem patrium ditaverit, et nova rerum Nomina protulerit?

[Page 222: Johnson's influence on style.

[Page 223: Courtenay's lines on Johnson's school. AEtat 41.]

This circumstance, the truth of which must strike every critical reader, has been so happily
enforced by Mr. Courtenay, in his Moral and Literary Character of Dr. Johnson, that I cannot
prevail on myself to withhold it, notwithstanding his, perhaps, too great partiality for one
of his friends:

'By nature's gifts ordain'd mankind to rule, He, like a Titian, form'd his brilliant school;
And taught congenial spirits to excel, While from his lips impressive wisdom fell. Our boasted
GOLDSMITH felt the sovereign sway: From him deriv'd the sweet, yet nervous lay. To Fame's proud
cliff he bade our Raphael rise; Hence REYNOLDS' pen with REYNOLDS' pencil vies. With Johnson's
flame melodious BURNEY glows, While the grand strain in smoother cadence flows. And you, MALONE,
to critick learning dear. Correct and elegant, refin'd though clear, By studying him, acquir'd
that classick taste, Which high in Shakspeare's fane thy statue plac'd. Near Johnson STEEVENS
stands, on scenick ground, Acute, laborious, fertile, and profound. Ingenious HAWKESWORTH to
this school we owe. And scarce the pupil from the tutor know. Here early parts accomplish'd
JONES sublimes, And science blends with Asia's lofty rhymes: Harmonious JONES! who in his splendid
strains Sings Camdeo's sports, on Agra's flowery plains: In Hindu fictions while we fondly
trace Love and the Muses, deck'd with Attick grace. Amid these names can BOSWELL be forgot,
Scarce by North Britons now esteem'd a Scot[659]? Who to the sage devoted from his youth, Imbib'd
from him the sacred love of truth; The keen research, the exercise of mind, And that best art,
the art to know mankind.-- Nor was his energy confin'd alone To friends around his philosophick
throne; Its influence wide improv'd our letter'd isle. And lucid vigour marked the general
style: As Nile's proud waves, swoln from their oozy bed. First o'er the neighbouring meads
majestick spread; Till gathering force, they more and more expand. And with new virtue fertilise
the land.'

Johnson's language, however, must be allowed to be too masculine for the delicate gentleness
of female writing. His ladies, therefore, seem strangely formal, even to ridicule; and are
well denominated by the names which he has given them as Misella[660], Zozima, Properantia,
Rhodoclia.

[Page 224: The styles of addison and Johnson. A.D. 1750.]

It has of late been the fashion to compare the style of Addison and Johnson, and to depreciate,
I think very unjustly, the style of Addison as nerveless and feeble[661], because it has not
the strength and energy of that of Johnson. Their prose may be balanced like the poetry of
Dryden and Pope. Both are excellent, though in different ways. Addison writes with the ease
of a gentleman. His readers fancy that a wise and accomplished companion is talking to them;
so that he insinuates his sentiments and taste into their minds by an imperceptible influence.
Johnson writes like a teacher. He dictates to his readers as if from an academical chair. They
attend with awe and admiration; and his precepts are impressed upon them by his commanding
eloquence. Addison's style, like a light wine, pleases everybody from the first. Johnson's,
like a liquor of more body, seems too strong at first, but, by degrees, is highly relished;
and such is the melody of his periods, so much do they captivate the ear, and seize upon the
attention, that there is scarcely any writer, however inconsiderable, who does not aim, in
some degree, at the same species of excellence. But let us not ungratefully undervalue that
beautiful style, which has pleasingly conveyed to us much instruction and entertainment. Though
comparatively weak, opposed to Johnson's Herculean vigour, let us not call it positively feeble.
Let us remember the character of his style, as given by Johnson himself[662]: 'What he attempted,
he performed; he is never feeble, and he did not wish to be energetick; he is never rapid,
and he never stagnates. His sentences have neither studied amplitude, nor affected brevity:
his periods, though not diligently rounded, are voluble and easy[663]. Whoever wishes to attain
an English style, familiar but not coarse, and elegant but not ostentatious, must give his
days and nights to the volumes of Addison[664].'

[Page 225: Boswell's projected works. AEtat 41.]

[Page 226: The last Rambler. I cannot, however, but wish that he had not ended it with an unnecessary
Greek verse, translated also into an English couplet[666]. It is too much like the conceit
of those dramatick poets, who used to conclude each act with a rhyme; and the expression in
the first line of his couplet, 'Celestial powers', though proper in Pagan poetry, is ill suited
to Christianity, with 'a conformity[667]' to which he consoles himself.

'Gough-square, May 12, 1750.

'SIR,

'Knowing that you are now preparing to favour the publick with a new edition of Ralegh's[669]
miscellaneous pieces, I have taken the liberty to send you a Manuscript, which fell by chance
within my notice. I perceive no proofs of forgery in my examination of it; and the owner tells
me, that as he[670] has heard, the handwriting is Sir Walter's. If you should find reason to
conclude it genuine, it will be a kindness to the owner, a blind person[671], to recommend
it to the booksellers. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

[Page 227: Milton's grand-daughter. AEtat 41.]

[Page 228: Lauder's imposition. On the day preceding the performance, he published the following
letter in the 'General Advertiser,' addressed to the printer of that paper:

'SIR,

'That a certain degree of reputation is acquired merely by approving the works of genius, and
testifying a regard to the memory of authours, is a truth too evident to be denied; and therefore
to ensure a participation of fame with a celebrated poet, many who would, perhaps, have contributed
to starve him when alive, have heaped expensive pageants upon his grave[673].

'It must, indeed, be confessed, that this method of becoming known to posterity with honour,
is peculiar to the great, or at least to the wealthy; but an opportunity now offers for almost
every individual to secure the praise of paying a just regard to the illustrious dead, united
with the pleasure of doing good to the living. To assist industrious indigence, struggling
with distress and debilitated by age, is a display of virtue, and an acquisition of happiness
and honour.

'Whoever, then, would be thought capable of pleasure in reading the works of our incomparable
Milton, and not so destitute of gratitude as to refuse to lay out a trifle in rational and
elegant entertainment, for the benefit of his living remains, for the exercise of their own
virtue, the increase of their reputation, and the pleasing consciousness of doing good, should
appear at Drury-lane theatre to-morrow, April 5, when Comus will be performed for the benefit
of Mrs. Elizabeth Foster, grand-daughter to the author, and the only surviving branch of his
family.

'N.B. There will be a new prologue on the occasion, written by the author of Irene[674], and
spoken by Mr. Garrick; and, by particular desire, there will be added to the Masque a dramatick
satire, called Lethe, in which Mr. Garrick will perform.'

[Page 229: Douglas's MILTON NO PLAGIARY. AEtat 42.]

1751: AETAT. 42.--In 1751[675] we are to consider him as carrying on both his Dictionary and
Rambler. But he also wrote The Life of Cheynel[676],[*] in the miscellany called The Student;
and the Reverend Dr. Douglas having, with uncommon acuteness, clearly detected a gross forgery
and imposition upon the publick by William Lauder, a Scotch schoolmaster, who had, with equal
impudence and ingenuity, represented Milton as a plagiary from certain modern Latin poets,
Johnson, who had been so far imposed upon as to furnish a Preface and Postscript to his work,
now dictated a letter for Lauder, addressed to Dr. Douglas, acknowledging his fraud in terms
of suitable contrition.[677]

[Page 230: Johnson tricked by Lander. A.D. 1751.]

This extraordinary attempt of Lauder was no sudden effort. He had brooded over it for many
years: and to this hour it is uncertain what his principal motive was, unless it were a vain
notion of his superiority, in being able, by whatever means, to deceive mankind. To effect
this, he produced certain passages from Grotius, Masenius, and others, which had a faint resemblance
to some parts of the Paradise Lost. In these he interpolated some fragments of Hog's Latin
translation of that poem, alledging that the mass thus fabricated was the archetype from which
Milton copied.[678] These fabrications he published from time to time in the Gentleman s Magazine;
and, exulting in his fancied success, he in 1750 ventured to collect them into a pamphlet,
entitled An Essay on Milton's Use and Imitation of the Moderns in his Paradise Lost. To this
pamphlet Johnson wrote a Preface[679], in full persuasion of Lauder's honesty, and a Postscript
recommending, in the most persuasive terms[680], a subscription for the relief of a grand-daughter
of Milton, of whom he thus speaks:

'It is yet in the power of a great people to reward the poet whose name they boast, and from
their alliance to whose genius, they claim some kind of superiority to every other nation of
the earth; that poet, whose works may possibly be read when every other monument of British
greatness shall be obliterated; to reward him, not with pictures or with medals, which, if
he sees, he sees with contempt, but with tokens of gratitude, which he, perhaps, may even now
consider as not unworthy the regard of an immortal spirit.'

[Page 231: Johnson's admiration of Milton. AEtat 42.]

Surely this is inconsistent with 'enmity towards Milton,' which Sir John Hawkins[681] imputes
to Johnson upon this occasion, adding,

'I could all along observe that Johnson seemed to approve not only of the design, but of the
argument; and seemed to exult in a persuasion, that the reputation of Milton was likely to
suffer by this discovery. That he was not privy to the imposture, I am well persuaded; but
that he wished well to the argument, may be inferred from the Preface, which indubitably was
written by Johnson.'

Is it possible for any man of clear judgement to suppose that Johnson, who so nobly praised
the poetical excellence of Milton in a Postscript to this very 'discovery,' as he then supposed
it, could, at the same time, exult in a persuasion that the great poet's reputation was likely
to suffer by it? This is an inconsistency of which Johnson was incapable; nor can any thing
more be fairly inferred from the Preface, than that Johnson, who was alike distinguished for
ardent curiosity and love of truth, was pleased with an investigation by which both were gratified.
That he was actuated by these motives, and certainly by no unworthy desire to depreciate our
great epick poet, is evident from his own words; for, after mentioning the general zeal of
men of genius and literature 'to advance the honour, and distinguish the beauties of Paradise
Lost', he says,

'Among the inquiries to which this ardour of criticism has naturally given occasion, none is
more obscure in itself, or more worthy of rational curiosity, than a retrospect[682] of the
progress of this mighty genius in the construction of his work; a view of the fabrick gradually
rising, perhaps, from small beginnings, till its foundation rests in the centre, and its turrets
sparkle in the skies; to trace back the structure through all its varieties, to the simplicity
of its first plan; to find what was first projected, whence the scheme was taken, how it was
improved, by what assistance it was executed, and from what stores the materials were collected;
whether its founder dug them from the quarries of Nature, or demolished other buildings to
embellish his own.'

Is this the language of one who wished to blast the laurels of Milton[683]?

[Page 232: Mrs. Anna Williams.

[Page 233: Johnson's pleasure in her company. AEtat 43.]

[Page 234: Death of Johnson's wife.

[Page 235: Communications by dreams. For on the 17th of March, O.S., his wife died. Why Sir
John Hawkins should unwarrantably take upon him even to suppose that Johnson's fondness for
her was dissembled (meaning simulated or assumed,) and to assert, that if it was not the case,
'it was a lesson he had learned by rote[688],' I cannot conceive; unless it proceeded from
a want of similar feelings in his own breast. To argue from her being much older than Johnson,
or any other circumstances, that he could not really love her, is absurd; for love is not a
subject of reasoning, but of feeling, and therefore there are no common principles upon which
one can persuade another concerning it. Every man feels for himself, and knows how he is affected
by particular qualities in the person he admires, the impressions of which are too minute and
delicate to be substantiated in language. I present it to the world as an undoubted proof of
a circumstance in the character of my illustrious friend, which though some whose hard minds
I never shall envy, may attack as superstitious, will I am sure endear him more to numbers
of good men[690]. I have an additional, and that a personal motive for presenting it, because
it sanctions what I myself have always maintained and am fond to indulge. A.D. 1752.]

What actually followed upon this most interesting piece of devotion by Johnson, we are not
informed; but I, whom it has pleased GOD to afflict in a similar manner to that which occasioned
it, have certain experience of benignant communication by dreams[692]. In the evening I prayed
for her conditionally, if it were lawful.'

[Page 237: Her wedding-ring. 1736,
       Mortua, eheu!
    Mart. 17 deg. 1752[695].

The state of mind in which a man must be upon the death of a woman whom he sincerely loves,
had been in his contemplation many years before. In his Irene, we find the following fervent
and tender speech of Demetrius, addressed to his Aspasia:

'From those bright regions of eternal day, Where now thou shin'st amongst thy fellow saints,
Array'd in purer light, look down on me! In pleasing visions and delusive dreams, O! sooth
my soul, and teach me how to lose thee[696].'

[Page 238: The shock of separation. JOHNSON.'

'March 18, 1752.'

[Page 239: Francis Barber. AEtat 43.]

[Page 240: Prayers for the dead.

[Page 241: The funeral sermon on Mrs. Johnson.

[Page 243: Robert Levet.

[Page 244: Sir Joshua Reynolds.

[Page 246: The Miss Cotterells.

[Page 247: Bennet Langton.

[Page 249: Topham Beauclerk. AEtat 43.]

Johnson, soon after this acquaintance began, passed a considerable time at Oxford[733]. Indeed
Johnson's energy of thought and richness of language, are still more decisive marks than any
signature. As a proof of this, my readers, I imagine, will not doubt that Number 39, on sleep,
is his; for it not only has the general texture and colour of his style, but the authours with
whom he was peculiarly conversant are readily introduced in it in cursory allusion. The translation
of a passage in Statius[744] quoted in that paper, and marked C. B. has been erroneously ascribed
to Dr. Bathurst, whose Christian name was Richard. How much this amiable man actually contributed
to The Adventurer, cannot be known. Let me add, that Hawkesworth's imitations of Johnson are
sometimes so happy, that it is extremely difficult to distinguish them, with certainty, from
the compositions of his great archetype. Hawkesworth was his closest imitator, a circumstance
of which that writer would once have been proud to be told; though, when he had become elated
by having risen into some degree of consequence, he, in a conversation with me, had the provoking
effrontery to say he was not sensible of it[745].

[Page 253: A letter to Dr. Warton. AEtat 44.]

Johnson was truly zealous for the success of The Adventurer; and very soon after his engaging
in it, he wrote the following letter:

'TO THE REVEREND DR. JOSEPH WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I ought to have written to you before now, but I ought to do many things which I do not; nor
can I, indeed, claim any merit from this letter; for being desired by the authours and proprietor
of The Adventurer to look out for another hand, my thoughts necessarily fixed upon you, whose
fund of literature will enable you to assist them, with very little interruption of your studies.

'They desire you to engage to furnish one paper a month, at two guineas a paper, which you
may very readily perform. We have considered that a paper should consist of pieces of imagination,
pictures of life, and disquisitions of literature. The part which depends on the imagination
is very well supplied, as you will find when you read the paper; for descriptions of life,
there is now a treaty almost made with an authour and an authouress; and the province of criticism
and literature they are very desirous to assign to the commentator on Virgil.

'I hope this proposal will not be rejected, and that the next post will bring us your compliance.
I speak as one of the fraternity, though I have no part in the paper, beyond now and then a
motto; but two of the writers are my particular friends, and I hope the pleasure of seeing
a third united to them, will not be denied to, dear Sir,

'Your most obedient,

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 8, 1753.'

The consequence of this letter was, Dr. Warton's enriching the collection with several admirable
essays.

[Page 254: Bathurst's papers in the Adventurer. A.D. 1753.]

Johnson's saying 'I have no part in the paper beyond now and then a motto,' may seem inconsistent
with his being the authour of the papers marked T. But he had, at this time, written only one
number[746]; and besides, even at any after period, he might have used the same expression,
considering it as a point of honour not to own them; for Mrs. Williams told me that, 'as he
had given those Essays to Dr. Bathurst, who sold them at two guineas each, he never would own
them; nay, he used to say he did not write them: but the fact was, that he dictated them, while
Bathurst wrote.' I read to him Mrs. Williams's account; he smiled, and said nothing[747].

[Page 255: Mrs. Lennox. AEtat 45.]

I am not quite satisfied with the casuistry by which the productions of one person are thus
passed upon the world for the productions of another. I allow that not only knowledge, but
powers and qualities of mind may be communicated; but the actual effect of individual exertion
never can be transferred, with truth, to any other than its own original cause. One person's
child may be made the child of another person by adoption, as among the Romans, or by the ancient
Jewish mode of a wife having children born to her upon her knees, by her handmaid. But these
were children in a different sense from that of nature. It was clearly understood that they
were not of the blood of their nominal parents. So in literary children, an authour may give
the profits and fame of his composition to another man, but cannot make that other the real
authour. A Highland gentleman, a younger branch of a family, once consulted me if he could
not validly purchase the Chieftainship of his family, from the Chief who was willing to sell
it. I told him it was impossible for him to acquire, by purchase, a right to be a different
person from what he really was; for that the right of Chieftainship attached to the blood of
primogeniture, and, therefore, was incapable of being transferred. I added, that though Esau
sold his birth-right, or the advantages belonging to it, he still remained the first-born of
his parents; and that whatever agreement a Chief might make with any of the clan, the Herald's
Office could not admit of the metamorphosis, or with any decency attest that the younger was
the elder; but I did not convince the worthy gentleman.

Johnson's papers in The Adventurer are very similar to those of The Rambler; but being rather
more varied in their subjects, and being mixed with essays by other writers, upon topicks more
generally attractive than even the most elegant ethical discourses, the sale of the work, at
first, was more extensive. Without meaning, however, to depreciate The Adventurer, I must observe
that as the value of The Rambler came, in the progress of time, to be better known, it grew
upon the publick estimation, and that its sale has far exceeded that of any other periodical
papers since the reign of Queen Anne.

[Page 256: The Life of Edward Cave. A.D. 1754.]

1754: AETAT. 45.--IN 1754 I can trace nothing published by him, except his numbers of The Adventurer,
and 'The Life of Edward Cave,'[*] in the Gentleman's Magazine for February. In biography there
can be no question that he excelled, beyond all who have attempted that species of composition;
upon which, indeed, he set the highest value. To the minute selection of characteristical circumstances,
for which the ancients were remarkable, he added a philosophical research, and the most perspicuous
and energetick language. Cave was certainly a man of estimable qualities, and was eminently
diligent and successful in his own business[749], which, doubtless, entitled him to respect.
But he was peculiarly fortunate in being recorded by Johnson, who, of the narrow life of a
printer and publisher, without any digressions or adventitious circumstances, has made an interesting
and agreeable narrative[750].

[Page 257: Lord Chesterfield's neglect.]

[Page 258: Lord Chesterfield's flattery.

His Lordship says,

'I think the publick in general, and the republick of letters in particular, are greatly obliged
to Mr. Johnson, for having undertaken, and executed, so great and desirable a work. Perfection
is not to be expected from man; but if we are to judge by the various works of Johnson[756]
already published, we have good reason to believe, that he will bring this as near to perfection
as any man could do. The Plan of it, which he published some years ago, seems to me to be a
proof of it. Nothing can be more rationally imagined, or more accurately and elegantly expressed.
I therefore recommend the previous perusal of it to all those who intend to buy the Dictionary,
and who, I suppose, are all those who can afford it.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'It must be owned, that our language is, at present, in a state of anarchy, and hitherto, perhaps,
it may not have been the worse for it. During our free and open trade, many words and expressions
have been imported, adopted, and naturalized from other languages, which have greatly enriched
our own. Let it still preserve what real strength and beauty it may have borrowed from others;
but let it not, like the Tarpeian maid, be overwhelmed and crushed by unnecessary ornaments[757].
The time for discrimination seems to be now come.

[Page 259: Lord Chesterfield's flattery. AEtat 45.]

'Toleration, adoption, and naturalization have run their lengths. Good order and authority
are now necessary. But where shall we find them, and, at the same time, the obedience due to
them? We must have recourse to the old Roman expedient in times of confusion, and chuse a dictator.
Upon this principle, I give my vote for Mr. Johnson to fill that great and arduous post. And
I hereby declare, that I make a total surrender of all my rights and privileges in the English
language, as a free-born British subject, to the said Mr. Johnson, during the term of his dictatorship.
Nay more, I will not only obey him, like an old Roman, as my dictator, but, like a modern Roman,
I will implicitly believe in him as my Pope, and hold him to be infallible while in the chair,
but no longer. More than this he cannot well require; for, I presume, that obedience can never
be expected, when there is neither terrour to enforce, nor interest to invite it.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'But a Grammar, a Dictionary, and a History of our Language through its several stages, were
still wanting at home, and importunately called for from abroad. Mr. Johnson's labours will
now, I dare say[758], very fully supply that want, and greatly contribute to the farther spreading
of our language in other countries. Learners were discouraged, by finding no standard to resort
to; and, consequently, thought it incapable of any. They will now be undeceived and encouraged.'

This courtly device failed of its effect[759].

[Page 261: Johnson's letter to Lord Chesterfield.

[Page 263: His high opinion of Warburton.

[Page 266: A wit among Lords. AEtat 45.]

The character of 'a respectable Hottentot,' in Lord Chesterfield's letters[781], has been generally
understood to be meant for Johnson, and I have no doubt that it was. But I remember when the
Literary Property of those letters was contested in the Court of Session in Scotland, and Mr.
Henry Dundas[782], one of the counsel for the proprietors, read this character as an exhibition
of Johnson, Sir David Dalrymple, Lord Hailes, one of the Judges, maintained, with some warmth,
that it was not intended as a portrait of Johnson, but of a late noble Lord, distinguished
for abstruse science[783]. I have heard Johnson himself talk of the character, and say that
it was meant for George Lord Lyttelton, in which I could by no means agree; for his Lordship
had nothing of that violence which is a conspicuous feature in the composition. Finding that
my illustrious friend could bear to have it supposed that it might be meant for him, I said,
laughingly, that there was one trait which unquestionably did not belong to him; 'he throws
his meat any where but down his throat.' 'Sir, (said he,) Lord Chesterfield never saw me eat
in his life[784].'

[Page 268: A beggarly Scotchman. Mr. Pelham having died on the very day on which Lord Bolingbroke's
works came out, he wrote an elegant Ode on his death, beginning

'Let others hail the rising sun, I bow to that whose course is run;'

in which is the following stanza:

'The same sad morn, to Church and State
(So for our sins 'twas fix'd by fate,)
  A double stroke was given;
Black as the whirlwinds of the North,
St. John's fell genius issued forth,
  And Pelham fled to heaven[789].'

[Page 270: Thomas Warton. Of this, and of many interesting circumstances concerning him, during
a part of his life when he conversed but little with the world, I am enabled to give a particular
account, by the liberal communications of the Reverend Mr. Thomas Warton[790], who obligingly
furnished me with several of our common friend's letters, which he illustrated with notes.
These I shall insert in their proper places.

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'SIR,

'It is but an ill return for the book with which you were pleased to favour me[791], to have
delayed my thanks for it till now. I am too apt to be negligent; but I can never deliberately
shew my disrespect to a man of your character: and I now pay you a very honest acknowledgement,
for the advancement of the literature of our native country. You have shewn to all, who shall
hereafter attempt the study of our ancient authours, the way to success; by directing them
to the perusal of the books which those authours had read. Of this method, Hughes[792] and
men much greater than Hughes, seem never to have thought. The reason why the authours, which
are yet read, of the sixteenth century, are so little understood, is, that they are read alone;
and no help is borrowed from those who lived with them, or before them. Some part of this ignorance
I hope to remove by my book[793], which now draws towards its end; but which I cannot finish
to my mind, without visiting the libraries at Oxford, which I, therefore, hope to see in a
fortnight[794]. I know not how long I shall stay, or where I shall lodge: but shall be sure
to look for you at my arrival, and we shall easily settle the rest. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most obedient, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London] July 16, 1754.'

[Page 271: Johnson's visit to Oxford.

[Page 272: Stories of old college days.

'I told him, I thought it a very sonorous hexameter. I did not tell him, it was not in the
Virgilian style[800].

[Page 274: Rev. Mr. Meeke.

'DEAR SIR,

'The commission which I delayed to trouble you with at your departure, I am now obliged to
send you; and beg that you will be so kind as to carry it to Mr. Warton, of Trinity, to whom
I should have written immediately, but that I know not if he be yet come back to Oxford.

'In the Catalogue of MSS. of Gr. Brit, see vol. I. pag. 18. MSS. Bodl. MARTYRIUM xv. martyrum
sub Juliano, auctore Theophylacto.

'It is desired that Mr. Warton will inquire, and send word, what will be the cost of transcribing
this manuscript.

'Vol. II, pag. 32. Num. 1022. 58. COLL. Nov.--Commentaria in Acta Apostol.--Comment. in Septem
Epistolas Catholicas.

'He is desired to tell what is the age of each of these manuscripts: and what it will cost
to have a transcript of the two first pages of each.

'If Mr. Warton be not in Oxford, you may try if you can get it done by any body else; or stay
till he comes, according to your own convenience. It is for an Italian literato.

'The answer is to be directed to his Excellency Mr. Zon, Venetian Resident, Soho Square.

'I hope, dear Sir, that you do not regret the change of London for Oxford. Mr. Baretti is well,
and Miss Williams[805]; and we shall all be glad to hear from you, whenever you shall be so
kind as to write to, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM.

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am extremely obliged to you and to Mr. Wise, for the uncommon care which you have taken
of my interest[808]: if you can accomplish your kind design, I shall certainly take me a little
habitation among you.

'The books which I promised to Mr. Wise[809], I have not been able to procure: but I shall
send him a Finnick Dictionary, the only copy, perhaps, in England, which was presented me by
a learned Swede: but I keep it back, that it may make a set of my own books[810] of the new
edition, with which I shall accompany it, more welcome. You will assure him of my gratitude.

[Page 276: Collins the Poet. A.D. 1754.]

'Poor dear Collins[811]!--Would a letter give him any pleasure? I have a mind to write.

'I am glad of your hindrance in your Spenserian design[812], yet I would not have it delayed.
Three hours a day stolen from sleep and amusement will produce it. Let a Servitour[813] transcribe
the quotations, and interleave them with references, to save time. This will shorten the work,
and lessen the fatigue.

'Can I do any thing to promoting the diploma? I would not be wanting to co-operate with your
kindness; of which, whatever be the effect, I shall be, dear Sir,

'Your most obliged, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] Nov. 28, 1754.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am extremely sensible of the favour done me, both by Mr. Wise and yourself. The book[814]
cannot, I think, be printed in less than six weeks, nor probably so soon; and I will keep back
the title-page, for such an insertion as you seem to promise me. Be pleased to let me know
what money I shall send you, for bearing the expence of the affair; and I will take care that
you may have it ready at your hand.

[Page 277: The death of a Wife.

'There is an old English and Latin book of poems by Barclay, called "The Ship of Fools;" at
the end of which are a number of Eglogues; so he writes it, from Egloga[816], which are probably
the first in our language. If you cannot find the book I will get Mr. Dodsley to send it you.

'I shall be extremely glad to hear from you again, to know, if the affair proceeds[817]. I
have mentioned it to none of my friends for fear of being laughed at for my disappointment.

[Page 278: Land after a vast sea of words. A.D. 1755.]

'TO THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I wrote to you some weeks ago, but believe did not direct accurately, and therefore know not
whether you had my letter. I would, likewise, write to your brother, but know not where to
find him. I now begin to see land, after having wandered, according to Mr. Warburton's phrase,
in this vast sea of words. What reception I shall meet with on the shore, I know not; whether
the sound of bells, and acclamations of the people, which Ariosto talks of in his last Canto[819],
or a general murmur of dislike, I know not: whether I shall find upon the coast a Calypso that
will court, or a Polypheme that will resist. But if Polypheme comes, have at his eye. I hope,
however, the criticks will let me be at peace; for though I do not much fear their skill and
strength, I am a little afraid of myself, and would not willingly feel so much ill-will in
my bosom as literary quarrels are apt to excite.

'Mr. Baretti is about a work for which he is in great want of Crescimbeni, which you may have
again when you please.

'There is nothing considerable done or doing among us here. We are not, perhaps, as innocent
as villagers, but most of us seem to be as idle. I hope, however, you are busy; and should
be glad to know what you are doing.

'I am, dearest Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London] Feb. 4, 1755.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'I received your letter this day, with great sense of the favour that has been done me[820];
for which I return my most sincere thanks: and entreat you to pay to Mr. Wise such returns
as I ought to make for so much kindness so little deserved.

[Page 279: Dr. King. AEtat 46.]

'I sent Mr. Wise the Lexicon, and afterwards wrote to him; but know not whether he had either
the book or letter. Be so good as to contrive to enquire.

'But why does my dear Mr. Warton tell me nothing of himself? Where hangs the new volume[821]?
Can I help? Let not the past labour be lost, for want of a little more: but snatch what time
you can from the Hall, and the pupils[822], and the coffee-house, and the parks[823], and complete
your design.

'Mr. Wise sends me word, that he has not had the Finnick Lexicon yet, which I sent some time
ago; and if he has it not, you must enquire after it. However, do not let your letter stay
for that.

'Your brother, who is a better correspondent than you, and not much better, sends me word,
that your pupils keep you in College: but do they keep you from writing too? Let them, at least,
give you time to write to, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] Feb. 13, 1755,'

To THE SAME,

'DEAR SIR,

'Dr. King[825] was with me a few minutes before your letter; this, however, is the first instance
in which your kind intentions to me have ever been frustrated[826]. I have now the full effect
of your care and benevolence; and am far from thinking it a slight honour, or a small advantage;
since it will put the enjoyment of your conversation more frequently in the power of, dear Sir,

[Page 280: The Chancellor of Oxford's letter. A.D. 1755.]

'Your most obliged and affectionate

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'P.S. I have enclosed a letter to the Vice-Chancellor[827], which you will read; and, if you
like it, seal and give him.

'[London,] Feb. 1755.'

As the Publick will doubtless be pleased to see the whole progress of this well-earned academical
honour, I shall insert the Chancellor of Oxford's letter to the University[828], the diploma,
and Johnson's letter of thanks to the Vice-Chancellor. AEtat 46.]

'Mr. Vice-Chancellor, and Gentlemen,

'Your affectionate friend and servant,

'ARRAN[829].'

'Grosvenor-street, Feb. 4, 1755.'

Term. Seti. Hilarii. 1755

'DIPLOMA MAGISTRI JOHNSON. Mensis Feb. Anno Dom. praedicto.

'Diploma supra scriptum per Registrarium Iectum erat, et ex decreto venerabilis Domus communi
Universitatis sigillo munitum'[830].'

'DOM. DOCTORI HUDDESFORD, OXONIENSIS ACADEMIAE VICE-CANCELLARIO.

'INGRATUS plane et tibi et mihi videar, nisi quanto me gaudio affecerint quos nuper mihi honores
(te credo auctore) decrevit Senatus Academicus, Iiterarum, quo lamen nihil levius, officio,
significem: ingratus etiam, nisi comitatem, qua vir eximius[831] mihi vestri testimonium amoris
in manus tradidit, agnoscam et laudem. Si quid est unde rei lam gratae accedat gratia, hoc
ipso magis mihi placet, quod eo tempore in ordines Academicos denuo cooptatus sim, quo tuam
imminuere auctoritatem, famamque Oxonii Iaedere[832], omnibus modis conantur homines vafri,
nec tamen aculi: quibus ego, prout viro umbratico licuit, semper restiti, semper restiturus.
Qui enim, inter has rerum procellas, vel Tibi vel Academiae defuerit, illum virtuti et literis,
sibique et posteris, defuturum existimo.

'S. JOHNSON.'

[Page 282: Johnson's letter of thanks. A.D. 1755.]

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'After I received my diploma, I wrote you a letter of thanks, with a letter to the Vice-Chancellor,
and sent another to Mr. Wise; but have heard from nobody since, and begin to think myself forgotten.
It is true, I sent you a double letter[833], and you may fear an expensive correspondent; but
I would have taken it kindly, if you had returned it treble: and what is a double letter to
a petty king, that having fellowship and fines, can sleep without a Modus in his head[834]?

'Dear Mr. Warton, let me hear from you, and tell me something, I care not what, so I hear it
but from you. Something I will tell you:--I hope to see my Dictionary bound and lettered, next
week;--vasta mole superbus. And I have a great mind to come to Oxford at Easter; but you will
not invite me. Shall I come uninvited, or stay here where nobody perhaps would miss me if I
went? A hard choice! But such is the world to, dear Sir,

'Your, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London] March 20, 1755.'

[Page 283: A projected Review. AEtat 46.]

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'Though not to write, when a man can write so well, is an offence sufficiently heinous, yet
I shall pass it by, I am very glad that the Vice-Chancellor was pleased with my note. I shall
impatiently expect you at London, that we may consider what to do next. I intend in the winter
to open a Bibliotheque, and remember, that you are to subscribe a sheet a year; let us try,
likewise, if we cannot persuade your brother to subscribe another. My book is now coming in
luminis oras[835]. What will be its fate I know not, nor think much, because thinking is to
no purpose. It must stand the censure of the great vulgar and the small[836]; of those that
understand it, and that understand it not. But in all this, I suffer not alone: every writer
has the same difficulties, and, perhaps, every writer talks of them more than he thinks.

[Page 284: Dr. Maty. A.D. 1755.]

'You will be pleased to make my compliments to all my friends: and be so kind, at every idle
hour, as to remember, dear Sir,

'Your, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] March 25, 1755.'

Dr. Adams told me, that this scheme of a Bibliotheque was a serious one: for upon his visiting
him one day, he found his parlour floor covered with parcels of foreign and English literary
journals, and he told Dr. Adams he meant to undertake a Review. 'How, Sir, (said Dr. Adams,)
can you think of doing it alone? All branches of knowledge must be considered in it. Do you
know Mathematicks? Do you know Natural History?' Johnson answered, 'Why, Sir, I must do as
well as I can. My chief purpose is to give my countrymen a view of what is doing in literature
upon the continent; and I shall have, in a good measure, the choice of my subject, for I shall
select such books as I best understand.' Dr. Adams suggested, that as Dr. Maty had just then
finished his Bibliotheque Britannique[837], which was a well-executed work, giving foreigners
an account of British publications, he might, with great advantage, assume him as an assistant.
'He, (said Johnson) the little black dog! I'd throw him into the Thames[838].' The scheme,
however, was dropped.

[Page 285: Dr. Birch's letter. AEtat 46.]

In one of his little memorandum-books I find the following hints for his intended Review or
Literary Journal:

'The Annals of Literature, foreign as welt as domestick. Imitate Le Clerk--Bayle--Barbeyrac.
Infelicity of Journals in England. Works of the learned. We cannot take in all. Sometimes copy
from foreign Journalists. Always tell.'

'To DR. BIRCH.

'March 29, 1755.

'SIR,

'I have sent some parts of my Dictionary, such as were at hand, for your inspection. The favour
which I beg is, that if you do not like them, you will say nothing. I am, Sir,

'Your most affectionate humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'To MR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

Norfolk-street, April 23, 1755.

Sir,

'The part of your Dictionary which you have favoured me with the sight of has given me such
an idea of the whole, that I most sincerely congratulate the publick upon the acquisition of
a work long wanted, and now executed with an industry, accuracy, and judgement, equal to the
importance of the subject. You might, perhaps, have chosen one in which your genius would have
appeared to more advantage; but you could not have fixed upon any other in which your labours
would have done such substantial service to the present age and to posterity. I am glad that
your health has supported the application necessary to the performance of so vast a task; and
can undertake to promise you as one (though perhaps the only) reward of it, the approbation
and thanks of every well-wisher to the honour of the English language. I am, with the greatest
regard,

'Sir,

'Your most faithful and

'Most affectionate humble servant,

'THO.

[Page 286: Johnson's letter to Mr. Burney. AEtat 46.]

Mr. Andrew Millar, bookseller in the Strand, took the principal charge of conducting the publication
of Johnson's Dictionary; and as the patience of the proprietors was repeatedly tried and almost
exhausted, by their expecting that the work would be completed within the time which Johnson
had sanguinely supposed, the learned authour was often goaded to dispatch, more especially
as he had received all the copy-money, by different drafts, a considerable time before he had
finished his task[840]. When the messenger who carried the last sheet to Millar returned, Johnson
asked him, 'Well, what did he say?'--'Sir, (answered the messenger) he said, thank GOD I have
done with him.' 'I am glad (replied Johnson, with a smile) that he thanks GOD for any thing[841].'
It is remarkable that those with whom Johnson chiefly contracted for his literary labours were
Scotchmen, Mr. Millar and Mr. Strahan. Millar, though himself no great judge of literature,
had good sense enough to have for his friends very able men to give him their opinion and advice
in the purchase of copyright; the consequence of which was his acquiring a very large fortune,
with great liberality[842]. Johnson said of him, 'I respect Millar, Sir; he has raised the
price of literature.' The same praise may be justly given to Panckoucke, the eminent bookseller
of Paris. Mr. Strahan's liberality, judgement, and success, are well known.

[Page 288: An Excursion to Langton deferred. A.D. 1755.]

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ., AT LANGTON NEAR SPILSBY, LINCOLNSHIRE.

'SIR,

'It has been long observed, that men do not suspect faults which they do not commit; your own
elegance of manners, and punctuality of complaisance, did not suffer you to impute to me that
negligence of which I was guilty, and which I have not since atoned. I received both your letters,
and received them with pleasure proportionate to the esteem which so short an acquaintance
strongly impressed, and which I hope to confirm by nearer knowledge, though I am afraid that
gratification will be for a time withheld.

'I have, indeed, published my Book[843], of which I beg to know your father's judgement, and
yours; and I have now staid long enough to watch its progress into the world. It has, you see,
no patrons, and, I think, has yet had no opponents, except the criticks of the coffee-house,
whose outcries are soon dispersed into the air, and are thought on no more: from this, therefore,
I am at liberty, and think of taking the opportunity of this interval to make an excursion;
and why not then into Lincolnshire? or, to mention a stronger attraction, why not to dear Mr.
Langton? I will give the true reason, which I know you will approve:--I have a mother more
than eighty years old, who has counted the days to the publication of my book, in hopes of
seeing me; and to her, if I can disengage myself here, I resolve to go.

'As I know, dear Sir, that to delay my visit for a reason like this, will not deprive me of
your esteem, I beg it may not lessen your kindness. I have very seldom received an offer of
friendship which I so earnestly desire to cultivate and mature. I shall rejoice to hear from
you, till I can see you, and will see you as soon as I can; for when the duty that calls me
to Lichfield is discharged, my inclination will carry me to Langton. I shall delight to hear
the ocean roar, or see the stars twinkle, in the company of men to whom Nature does not spread
her volumes or utter her voice in vain.

'Do not, dear Sir, make the slowness of this letter a precedent for delay, or imagine that
I approved the incivility that I have committed; for I have known you enough to love you, and
sincerely to wish a further knowledge; and I assure you, once more, that to live in a house
that contains such a father and such a son, will be accounted a very uncommon degree of pleasure,
by, dear Sir, your most obliged, and

'Most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'May 6, 1755.'

[Page 289: Letters to Mr. Warton. AEtat 46.]

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am grieved that you should think me capable of neglecting your letters; and beg you will
never admit any such suspicion again. I purpose to come down next week, if you shall be there;
or any other week, that shall be more agreeable to you. Therefore let me know. I can stay this
visit but a week, but intend to make preparations for a longer stay next time; being resolved
not to lose sight of the University. How goes Apollonius[844]? Don't let him be forgotten.
Some things of this kind must be done, to keep us up. Pay my compliments to Mr. Wise, and all
my other friends. I think to come to Kettel-Hall[845].

'I am, Sir,

'Your most affectionate, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] May 13, 1755.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'It is strange how many things will happen to intercept every pleasure, though it [be] only
that of two friends meeting together. I have promised myself every day to inform you when you
might expect me at Oxford, and have not been able to fix a time. The time, however, is, I think,
at last come; and I promise myself to repose in Kettel-Hall, one of the first nights of the
next week. I am afraid my stay with you cannot be long; but what is the inference? We must
endeavour to make it chearful. I wish your brother could meet us, that we might go and drink
tea with Mr. Wise in a body. I hope he will be at Oxford, or at his nest of British and Saxon
antiquities[846]. I shall expect to see Spenser finished, and many other things begun. Dodsley
is gone to visit the Dutch. The Dictionary sells well[847]. The rest of the world goes on as
it did. Dear Sir,

[Page 290: Letters to Mr. Warton. A.D. 1755.]

'Your most affectionate, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] June 10, 1755.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'To talk of coming to you, and not yet to come, has an air of trifling which I would not willingly
have among you; and which, I believe, you will not willingly impute to me, when I have told
you, that since my promise, two of our partners[848] are dead, and that I was solicited to
suspend my excursion till we could recover from our confusion.

'I have not laid aside my purpose; for every day makes me more impatient of staying from you.
But death, you know, hears not supplications, nor pays any regard to the convenience of mortals.
I hope now to see you next week; but next week is but another name for to-morrow, which has
been noted for promising and deceiving.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] June 24, 1755.'

To THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'I told you, that among the manuscripts are some things of Sir Thomas More. I beg you to pass
an hour in looking on them, and procure a transcript of the ten or twenty first lines of each,
to be compared with what I have; that I may know whether they are yet published. The manuscripts
are these:

'Catalogue of Bodl. MS. pag. 122. F. 3. Sir Thomas More.

'1. Fall of angels. 2. Creation and fall of mankind. 3. Determination of the Trinity for the
rescue of mankind. 4. Five lectures of our Saviour's passion. 5. Of the institution of the
sacrament, three lectures. 6. How to receive the blessed body of our Lord sacramentally. 7.
Neomenia, the new moon. 8. De tristitia, taedio, pavore, et oratione Christi, ante captionem ejus.

'Catalogue, pag. 154. Life of Sir Thomas More. Qu. Whether Roper's? Pag. 363. De resignatione
Magni Sigilli in manus Regis per D. Thomam Morum. Pag. 364. Mori Defensio Morice.

'If you procure the young gentleman in the library to write out what you think fit to be written,
I will send to Mr. Prince the bookseller to pay him what you shall think proper.

'Be pleased to make my compliments to Mr. Wise, and all my friends.

'I am, Sir,

'Your affectionate, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.' '[London] Aug. 7, 1755.'

[Page 291: Publication of the DICTIONARY. Let the Preface be attentively perused, in which
is given, in a clear, strong, and glowing style, a comprehensive, yet particular view of what
he had done; and it will be evident, that the time he employed upon it was comparatively short.
I am unwilling to swell my book with long quotations from what is in every body's hands, and
I believe there are few prose compositions in the English language that are read with more
delight, or are more impressed upon the memory, than that preliminary discourse. One of its
excellencies has always struck me with peculiar admiration: I mean the perspicuity with which
he has expressed abstract scientifick notions. As an instance of this, I shall quote the following
sentence: 'When the radical idea branches out into parallel ramifications, how can a consecutive
series be formed of senses in their own[849] nature collateral?' We have here an example of
what has been often said, and I believe with justice, that there is for every thought a certain
nice adaptation of words which none other could equal, and which, when a man has been so fortunate
as to hit, he has attained, in that particular case, the perfection of language.

[Page 292: The Preface to the Dictionary. Well might he say, that 'the English Dictionary was
written with little assistance of the learned[852],' for he told me, that the only aid which
he received was a paper containing twenty etymologies, sent to him by a person then unknown,
who he was afterwards informed was Dr. Pearce, Bishop of Rochester[853]. The etymologies, though
they exhibit learning and judgement, are not, I think, entitled to the first praise amongst
the various parts of this immense work. The definitions have always appeared to me such astonishing
proofs of acuteness of intellect and precision of language, as indicate a genius of the highest
rank[854]. This it is which marks the superiour excellence of Johnson's Dictionary over others
equally or even more voluminous, and must have made it a work of much greater mental labour
than mere Lexicons, or Word-books, as the Dutch call them. They, who will make the experiment
of trying how they can define a few words of whatever nature, will soon be satisfied of the
unquestionable justice of this observation, which I can assure my readers is founded upon much
study, and upon communication with more minds than my own.

[Page 293: Erroneous definitions. AEtat 46.]

A few of his definitions must be admitted to be erroneous.

[Page 294: Humorous definitions. A.D. 1755.]

'To explain, requires the use of terms less abstruse than that which is to be explained, and
such terms cannot always be found. For as nothing can be proved but by supposing something
intuitively known, and evident without proof, so nothing can be defined but by the use of words
too plain to admit of definition[860]. Thus it went to the press; but the printer had more
wit than I, and struck it out.'

[Page 296: Humorous definitions.

[Page 297: The gloom of solitude. AEtat 46.]

At the time when he was concluding his very eloquent Preface, Johnson's mind appears to have
been in such a state of depression[871], that we cannot contemplate without wonder the vigorous
and splendid thoughts which so highly distinguish that performance. 'I (says he) may surely
be contented without the praise of perfection, which if I could obtain in this gloom of solitude,
what would it avail me? I have protracted my work till most of those whom I wished to please
have sunk into the grave; and success and miscarriage are empty sounds, I therefore dismiss
it with frigid tranquillity, having little to fear or hope from censure or from praise[872].'
That this indifference was rather a temporary than an habitual feeling, appears, I think, from
his letters to Mr. Warton[873]; and however he may have been affected for the moment, certain
it is that the honours which his great work procured him, both at home and abroad, were very
grateful to him[874]. His friend the Earl of Corke and Orrery, being at Florence, presented
it to the Academia della Crusca. That Academy sent Johnson their Vocabulario, and the French
Academy sent him their Dictionnaire, which Mr. Langton had the pleasure to convey to him[875].

[Page 298: His melancholy at its meridian.

[Page 299: Johnson's happiest days last. I have often thought, that as longevity is generally
desired, and I believe, generally expected, it would be wise to be continually adding to the
number of our friends, that the loss of some may be supplied by others. Friendship, 'the wine
of life[879],' should like a well-stocked cellar, be thus continually renewed; and it is consolatory
to think, that although we can seldom add what will equal the generous first-growths of our
youth, yet friendship becomes insensibly old in much less time than is commonly imagined, and
not many years are required to make it very mellow and pleasant. Warmth will, no doubt, make
a considerable difference. Men of affectionate temper and bright fancy will coalesce a great
deal sooner than those who are cold and dull.

[Page 300: Garrick's complimentary epigram. A.D. 1755.]

The proposition which I have now endeavoured to illustrate was, at a subsequent period of his
life, the opinion of Johnson himself.

This light sally, we may suppose, made no great impression on our Lexicographer; for we find
that he did not alter the passage till many years afterwards[880].

He had the pleasure of being treated in a very different manner by his old pupil Mr. Garrick,
in the following complimentary Epigram[881]:

'On JOHNSON'S DICTIONARY,

'Talk of war with a Briton, he'll boldly advance, That one English soldier will beat ten of
France; Would we alter the boast from the sword to the pen, Our odds are still greater, still
greater our men: In the deep mines of science though Frenchmen may toil, Can their strength
be compar'd to Locke, Newton, and Boyle? Let them rally their heroes, send forth all their
pow'rs, Their verse-men and prose-men, then match them with ours! First Shakspeare and Milton[882],
like gods in the fight, Have put their whole drama and epick to flight; In satires, epistles,
and odes, would they cope, Their numbers retreat before Dryden and Pope; And Johnson, well
arm'd like a hero of yore, Has beat forty French[883], and will beat forty more!'

[Page 301: Zachariah Williams. AEtat 46.]

Johnson this year gave at once a proof of his benevolence, quickness of apprehension, and admirable
art of composition, in the assistance which he gave to Mr. Zachariah Williams, father of the
blind lady whom he had humanely received under his roof. Mr. Williams had followed the profession
of physick in Wales; but having a very strong propensity to the study of natural philosophy,
had made many ingenious advances towards a discovery of the longitude, and repaired to London
in hopes of obtaining the great parliamentary reward[884]. This pamphlet Johnson presented
to the Bodleian Library[886]. On a blank leaf of it is pasted a paragraph cut out of a news-paper,
containing an account of the death and character of Williams, plainly written by Johnson[887].

[Page 302: Joseph Baretti. A.D. 1755.]

[Page 303: A scheme of life for Sunday.

[Page 305: Johnson's opinion of booksellers. AEtat 47.]

On the first day of this year we find from his private devotions, that he had then recovered
from sickness[891]; and in February that his eye was restored to its use[892]. The pious gratitude
with which he acknowledges mercies upon every occasion is very edifying; as is the humble submission
which he breathes, when it is the will of his heavenly Father to try him with afflictions.
As such dispositions become the state of man here, and are the true effects of religious discipline,
we cannot but venerate in Johnson one of the most exercised minds that our holy religion hath
ever formed. If there be any thoughtless enough to suppose such exercise the weakness of a
great understanding, let them look up to Johnson and be convinced that what he so earnestly
practised must have a rational foundation.

[Page 306: Christopher Smart. A.D. 1756.]

His works this year were, an abstract or epitome, in octavo, of his folio Dictionary, and a
few essays in a monthly publication, entitled, The Universal Visiter. Christopher Smart, with
whose unhappy vacillation of mind he sincerely sympathised, was one of the stated undertakers
of this miscellany; and it was to assist him that Johnson sometimes employed his pen[893].
I am equally confident, upon the same evidence, that he wrote 'Further Thoughts on Agriculture[894];'[Dagger]
being the sequel of a very inferiour essay on the same subject, and which, though carried on
as if by the same hand, is both in thinking and expression so far above it, and so strikingly
peculiar, as to leave no doubt of its true parent; and that he also wrote 'A Dissertation on
the State of Literature and Authours[895],'[Dagger] and 'A Dissertation on the Epitaphs written
by Pope.'[Dagger] The last of these, indeed, he afterwards added to his Idler[896]. Why the
essays truly written by him are marked in the same manner with some which he did not write,
I cannot explain; but with deference to those who have ascribed to him the three essays which
I have rejected, they want all the characteristical marks of Johnsonian composition.

[Page 307: The Literary Magazine. AEtat 47.]

He engaged also to superintend and contribute largely to another monthly publication, entitled
The Literary Magazine, or Universal Review; the first number of which came out in May this
year[897]. What were his emoluments from this undertaking, and what other writers were employed
in it, I have not discovered. He continued to write in it, with intermissions, till the fifteenth
number; and I think that he never gave better proofs of the force, acuteness, and vivacity
of his mind, than in this miscellany, whether we consider his original essays, or his reviews
of the works of others. The 'Preliminary Address'[Dagger] to the Publick is a proof how this
great man could embellish, with the graces of superiour composition, even so trite a thing
as the plan of a magazine. In one instance only in these essays has he indulged his Brownism[903].
Dr. Robertson, the historian, mentioned it to me, as having at once convinced him that Johnson
was the author of the 'Memoirs of the King of Prussia.' Speaking of the pride which the old
King, the father of his hero, took in being master of the tallest regiment in Europe, he says,
'To review this towering regiment was his daily pleasure; and to perpetuate it was so much
his care, that when he met a tall woman he immediately commanded one of his Titanian retinue
to marry her, that they might propagate procerity[904]' For this Anglo-Latian word procerity,
Johnson had, however, the authority of Addison[905].

[Page 309: The earthquake of Lisbon. AEtat 47.]

His reviews are of the following books: 'Birch's History of the Royal Society;'[Dagger] 'Murphy's
Gray's Inn Journal;'[Dagger] 'Warton's Essay on the Writings and Genius of Pope, Vol. I.'[Dagger]
'Hampton's Translation of Polybius;'[Dagger] 'Blackwell's Memoirs of the Court of Augustus;'[Dagger]
'Russel's Natural History of Aleppo[906];'[Dagger] 'Sir Isaac Newton's Arguments in Proof of
a Deity;'[Dagger] 'Borlase's History of the Isles of Scilly;'[Dagger] 'Home's Experiments on
Bleaching;'[Dagger] 'Browne's Christian Morals;'[Dagger] 'Hales on Distilling Sea-Water, Ventilators
in Ships, and curing an ill Taste in Milk;'[Dagger] 'Lucas's Essay on Waters;'[Dagger] 'Keith's
Catalogue of the Scottish Bishops;'[Dagger] 'Browne's History of Jamaica;'[Dagger] 'Philosophical
Transactions, Vol.

[Page 310: Johnson's ardour for liberty. A.D. 1750.]

Mr. Thomas Davies indeed, ascribed to him the Review of Mr. Burke's 'Inquiry into the Origin
of our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful;' and Sir John Hawkins, with equal discernment, has
inserted it in his collection of Johnson's works: whereas it has no resemblance to Johnson's
composition, and is well known to have been written by Mr. Murphy, who has acknowledged it
to me and many others.

It is worthy of remark, in justice to Johnson's political character, which has been misrepresented
as abjectly submissive to power, that his 'Observations on the present State of Affairs' glow
with as animated a spirit of constitutional liberty as can be found any where. Thus he begins:

 'The time is now come, in which every Englishman expects to be informed
of the national affairs; and in which he has a right to have that
expectation gratified. For, whatever may be urged by Ministers, or those
whom vanity or interest make the followers of ministers, concerning the
necessity of confidence in our governours, and the presumption of prying
with profane eyes into the recesses of policy, it is evident that this
reverence can be claimed only by counsels yet unexecuted, and projects
suspended in deliberation. But when a design has ended in miscarriage or
success, when every eye and every ear is witness to general discontent,
or general satisfaction, it is then a proper time to disentangle
confusion and illustrate obscurity; to shew by what causes every event
was produced, and in what effects it is likely to terminate; to lay down
with distinct particularity what rumour always huddles in general
exclamation, or perplexes by indigested[909] narratives; to shew whence
happiness or calamity is derived, and whence it may be expected; and
honestly to lay before the people what inquiry can gather of the past,
and conjecture can estimate of the future[910]'.

[Page 311: Dr. Lucas. AEtat 47.]

Here we have it assumed as an incontrovertible principle, that in this country the people are
the superintendants of the conduct and measures of those by whom government is administered;
of the beneficial effect of which the present reign afforded an illustrious example, when addresses
from all parts of the kingdom controuled an audacious attempt to introduce a new power subversive
of the crown.[911]

A still stronger proof of his patriotick spirit appears in his review of an 'Essay on Waters,
by Dr. Lucas;' of whom, after describing him as a man well known to the world for his daring
defiance of power, when he thought it exerted on the side of wrong, he thus speaks:

'The Irish ministers drove him from his native country by a proclamation, in which they charged
him with crimes of which they never intended to be called to the proof, and oppressed by methods
equally irresistible by guilt and innocence.

'Let the man thus driven into exile, for having been the friend of his country, be received
in every other place as a confessor of liberty; and let the tools of power be taught in time,
that they may rob, but cannot impoverish[912].'

Some of his reviews in this Magazine are very short accounts of the pieces noticed, and I mention
them only that Dr. Johnson's opinion of the works may be known; but many of them are examples
of elaborate criticism, in the most masterly style. In his review of the 'Memoirs of the Court
of Augustus,' he has the resolution to think and speak from his own mind, regardless of the
cant transmitted from age to age, in praise of the ancient Romans[913]. Thus,

'I know not why any one but a school-boy in his declamation should whine over the Common-wealth
of Rome, which grew great only by the misery of the rest of mankind. The Romans, like others,
as soon as they grew rich, grew corrupt; and in their corruption sold the lives and freedoms
of themselves, and of one another[914].'

[Page 312: Dr. Watts. A.D. 1756.]

Again,

'A people, who, while they were poor, robbed mankind; and as soon as they became rich, robbed
one another[915].'

In his review of the Miscellanies in prose and verse, published by Elizabeth Harrison, but
written by many hands, he gives an eminent proof at once of his orthodoxy and candour:

'The authours of the essays in prose seem generally to have imitated, or tried to imitate,
the copiousness and luxuriance of Mrs. Rowe[916], This, however, is not all their praise; they
have laboured to add to her brightness of imagery, her purity of sentiments. The poets have
had Dr. Watts before their eyes; a writer, who, if he stood not in the first class of genius,
compensated that defect by a ready application of his powers to the promotion of piety. The
attempt to employ the ornaments of romance in the decoration of religion, was, I think, first
made by Mr. Boyle's Martyrdom of Theodora; but Boyle's philosophical studies did not allow
him time for the cultivation of style; and the Completion of the great design was reserved
for Mrs. Rowe. Dr. Watts was one of the first who taught the Dissenters to write and speak
like other men, by shewing them that elegance might consist with piety[917]. They would have
both done honour to a better society[918], for they had that charity which might well make
their failings be forgotten, and with which the whole Christian world might wish for communion.
They were pure from all the heresies of an age, to which every opinion is become a favourite
that the universal church has hitherto detested!

[Page 313: Johnson's defence of tea. AEtat 47.]

'This praise, the general interest of mankind requires to be given to writers who please and
do not corrupt, who instruct and do not weary. But to them all human eulogies are vain, whom
I believe applauded by angels, and numbered with the just[919].'

[Page 314: Johnson's reply to Hanway's attack. A.D. 1756.]

His defence of tea against Mr. Jonas Hartway's violent attack upon that elegant and popular
beverage[920], shews how very well a man of genius can write upon the slightest subject, when
he writes, as the Italians say, con amore: I suppose no person ever enjoyed with more relish
the infusion of that fragrant leaf than Johnson[921]. The quantities which he drank of it at
all hours were so great, that his nerves must have been uncommonly strong, not to have been
extremely relaxed by such an intemperate use of it[922]. He assured me, that he never felt
the least inconvenience from it; which is a proof that the fault of his constitution was rather
a too great tension of fibres, than the contrary. Mr. Hanway wrote an angry answer to Johnson's
review of his Essay on Tea, and Johnson, after a full and deliberate pause, made a reply to
it; the only instance, I believe, in the whole course of his life, when he condescended to
oppose any thing that was written against him[923]. I suppose when he thought of any of his
little antagonists, he was ever justly aware of the high sentiment of Ajax in Ovid:

'Iste tulit pretium jam nunc certaminis hujus, Qui, cum victus erit, mecum certasse feretur[924].'

But, indeed, the good Mr. Hanway laid himself so open to ridicule, that Johnson's animadversions
upon his attack were chiefly to make sport[925].

[Page 315: Admiral Byng. AEtat 47.]

The generosity with which he pleads the cause of Admiral Byng is highly to the honour of his
heart and spirit. Though Voltaire affects to be witty upon the fate of that unfortunate officer,
observing that he was shot 'pour encourager les autres[926],' the nation has long been satisfied
that his life was sacrificed to the political fervour of the times. In the vault belonging
to the Torrington family, in the church of Southill[927], in Bedfordshire, there is the following
Epitaph upon his monument, which I have transcribed:

  'TO THE PERPETUAL DISGRACE
  OF PUBLIC JUSTICE,
  THE HONOURABLE JOHN BYNG, ESQ.
  ADMIRAL OF THE BLUE,
  FELL A MARTYR TO POLITICAL
  PERSECUTION,
  MARCH 14, IN THE YEAR, 1757;
  WHEN BRAVERY AND LOYALTY
  WERE INSUFFICIENT SECURITIES
  FOR THE LIFE AND HONOUR OF
  A NAVAL OFFICER.'

Johnson's most exquisite critical essay in the Literary Magazine, and indeed any where, is
his review[928] of Soame Jenyns's Inquiry into the Origin of Evil. Jenyns was possessed of
lively talents, and a style eminently pure and easy, and could very happily play with a light
subject, either in prose or verse; but when he speculated on that most difficult and excruciating
question, the Origin of Evil, he ventured far beyond his depth[929], and, accordingly, was
exposed by Johnson, both with acute argument and brilliant wit. I remember when the late Mr.
Bicknell's humourous performance, entitled The Musical Travels of Joel Collyer[930], in which
a slight attempt is made to ridicule Johnson, was ascribed to Soame Jenyns, 'Ha! (said Johnson)
I thought I had given him enough of it.'

[Page 316: Soame Jenyns. A.D. 1756.]

His triumph over Jenyns is thus described by my friend Mr. Courtenay in his Poetical Review
of the literary and moral Character of Dr. Johnson; a performance of such merit, that had I
not been honoured with a very kind and partial notice in it[931], I should echo the sentiments
of men of the first taste loudly in its praise:

'When specious sophists with presumption scan The source of evil hidden still from man; Revive
Arabian tales, and vainly hope To rival St. John, and his scholar Pope: Though metaphysicks
spread the gloom of night, By reason's star he guides our aching sight; The bounds of knowledge
marks, and points the way To pathless wastes, where wilder'd sages stray; Where, like a farthing
link-boy, Jenyns stands, And the dim torch drops from his feeble hands[932].'

[Page 317: Draughts and cards. AEtat 47.]

This year Mr. William Payne, brother of the respectable Bookseller[933] of that name, published
An Introduction to the Game of Draughts, to which Johnson contributed a Dedication to the Earl
of Rochford,[*] and a Preface,[*] both of which are admirably adapted to the treatise to which
they are prefixed. Johnson, I believe, did not play at draughts after leaving College[934],
by which he suffered; for it would have afforded him an innocent soothing relief from the melancholy
which distressed him so often. I have heard him regret that he had not learnt to play at cards[935];
and the game of draughts we know is peculiarly calculated to fix the attention without straining
it. There is a composure and gravity in draughts which insensibly tranquillises the mind; and,
accordingly, the Dutch are fond of it, as they are of smoaking, of the sedative influence of
which, though he himself never smoaked, he had a high opinion[936]. Besides, there is in draughts
some exercise of the faculties; and, accordingly, Johnson wishing to dignify the subject in
his Dedication with what is most estimable in it, observes,

'Triflers may find or make any thing a trifle; but since it is the great characteristick of
a wise man to see events in their courses, to obviate consequences, and ascertain contingencies,
your Lordship will think nothing a trifle by which the mind is inured to caution, foresight,
and circumspection[937].'

As one of the little occasional advantages which he did not disdain to take by his pen, as
a man whose profession was literature, he this year accepted of a guinea[938] from Mr. Robert
Dodsley, for writing the introduction to The London Chronicle, an evening news-paper; and even
in so slight a performance exhibited peculiar talents. This Chronicle still subsists, and from
what I observed, when I was abroad, has a more extensive circulation upon the Continent than
any of the English newspapers. It was constantly read by Johnson himself[939]; and it is but
just to observe, that it has all along been distinguished for good sense, accuracy, moderation,
and delicacy.

[Page 318: Dr. Madden. A.D. 1756.]

Another instance of the same nature has been communicated to me by the Reverend Dr. Thomas
Campbell, who has done himself considerable credit by his own writings[940].

'Sitting with Dr. Johnson one morning alone, he asked me if I had known Dr. Madden, who was
authour of the premium-scheme in Ireland[941]. On my answering in the affirmative, and also
that I had for some years lived in his neighbourhood, &c., he begged of me that when I returned
to Ireland, I would endeavour to procure for him a poem of Dr. Madden's called Boulter's Monument.
The reason (said he) why I wish for it, is this: when Dr. Madden came to London, he submitted
that work to my castigation; and I remember I blotted a great many lines, and might have blotted
many more, without making the poem worse. However, the Doctor was very thankful, and very generous,
for he gave me ten guineas, which was to me at that time a great sum[942].'

[Page 319: Johnson's SHAKSPEARE. AEtat 47.]

He this year resumed his scheme of giving an edition of Shakspeare with notes[943]. Yet nine
years elapsed before it saw the light[946].

1757: AETAT. 48.].--In 1757 it does not appear that he published any thing, except some of
those articles in The Literary Magazine, which have been mentioned. That magazine, after Johnson
ceased to write in it, gradually declined, though the popular epithet of Antigallican[952]
was added to it; and in July 1758 it expired. He probably prepared a part of his Shakspeare
this year, and he dictated a speech on the subject of an Address to the Throne, after the expedition
to Rochfort, which was delivered by one of his friends, I know not in what publick meeting.[953]
It is printed in The Gentleman's Magazine for October 1785 as his, and bears sufficient marks
of authenticity.

[Page 321: Irish literature. AEtat 48.]

By the favour of Mr. Joseph Cooper Walker, of the Treasury, Dublin, I have obtained a copy
of the following letter from Johnson to the venerable authour of Dissertations on the History
of Ireland.

[Page 322: The affinities of language. A.D. 1757.]

'To CHARLES O'CONNOR, ESQ.[954]

'SIR,

'I have lately, by the favour of Mr. Faulkner,[955] seen your account of Ireland, and cannot
forbear to solicit a prosecution of your design. Sir William Temple complains that Ireland
is less known than any other country, as to its ancient state.[956] The natives have had little
leisure, and little encouragement for enquiry; and strangers, not knowing the language, have
had no ability.

'I have long wished that the Irish literature were cultivated.[957] Ireland is known by tradition
to have been once the seat of piety and learning[958]; and surely it would be very acceptable
to all those who are curious either in the original of nations, or the affinities of languages,
to be further informed of the revolution of a people so ancient, and once so illustrious.

'What relation there is between the Welch and Irish language, or between the language of Ireland
and that of Biscay, deserves enquiry. Of these provincial and unextended tongues, it seldom
happens that more than one are understood by any one man; and, therefore, it seldom happens
that a fair comparison can be made. I hope you will continue to cultivate this kind of learning,
which has too long lain neglected, and which, if it be suffered to remain in oblivion for another
century, may, perhaps, never be retrieved. As I wish well to all useful undertakings, I would
not forbear to let you know how much you deserve in my opinion, from all lovers of study, and
how much pleasure your work has given to, Sir,

'Your most obliged,

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, April 9, 1757.'

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'Dr. Marsili[959] of Padua, a learned gentleman, and good Latin poet, has a mind to see Oxford.
I have given him a letter to Dr. Huddesford[960], and shall be glad if you will introduce him,
and shew him any thing in Oxford.

'I am printing my new edition of Shakspeare.

'I long to see you all, but cannot conveniently come yet. You might write to me now and then,
if you were good for any thing. But honores mulant mores. Professors forget their friends[961].
I shall certainly complain to Miss Jones[962]. I am,

'Your, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] June 21, 1757.'

'Please to make my compliments to Mr. Wise.'

[Page 323: Subscribers to Johnson's SHAKSPEARE. David and Doddy[968] have had a new quarrel,
and, I think, cannot conveniently quarrel any more. Cleone was well acted by all the characters,
but Bellamy[969] left nothing to be desired.

[Page 326: Reynolds's prices for portraits. I know not any body [else] whose prosperity has
encreased since you left them.

[Page 327: Johnson's SHAKSPEARE delayed. AEtat 49.]

'Murphy is to have his Orphan of China acted next month; and is therefore, I suppose, happy[976].

'SIR,

'Your kindness is so great, and my claim to any particular regard from you so little, that
I am at a loss how to express my sense of your favours[977]; but I am, indeed, much pleased
to be thus distinguished by you.

'I am ashamed to tell you that my Shakspeare will not be out so soon as I promised my subscribers;
but I did not promise them more than I promised myself. It will, however, be published before
summer.

'I have sent you a bundle of proposals, which, I think, do not profess more than I have hitherto
performed. I have printed many of the plays, and have hitherto left very few passages unexplained;
where I am quite at a loss, I confess my ignorance, which is seldom done by commentators[978].

'I have, likewise, enclosed twelve receipts; not that I mean to impose upon you the trouble
of pushing them, with more importunity than may seem proper, but that you may rather have more
than fewer than you shall want. The proposals you will disseminate as there shall be an opportunity.
I once printed them at length in the Chronicle, and some of my friends (I believe Mr. Murphy,
who formerly wrote the Gray's-Inn Journal) introduced them with a splendid encomium.

[Page 328: The garret in Gough-square. A.D. 1758.]

'Since the Life of Browne, I have been a little engaged, from time to time, in the Literary
Magazine, but not very lately. I have not the collection by me, and therefore cannot draw out
a catalogue of my own parts, but will do it, and send it. Do not buy them, for I will gather
all those that have anything of mine in them, and send them to Mrs. Burney, as a small token
of gratitude for the regard which she is pleased to bestow upon me.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most obliged

'And most humble servant,

'SAM.

[Page 330: The Idler. A.D. 1758.]

Mr. Burney asked him then if he had seen Warburton's book against Bolingbroke's Philosophy[983]?
76, 79, and 82, by Sir Joshua Reynolds; the concluding words of No. 82, 'and pollute his canvas
with deformity,' being added by Johnson, as Sir Joshua informed me[986].

Yet there are in The Idler several papers which shew as much profundity of thought, and labour
of language, as any of this great man's writings. No. 14, 'Robbery of Time;' No. 24, 'Thinking;'
No. 41, 'Death of a Friend[990];' No. 43, 'Flight of Time;' No. 51, 'Domestick greatness unattainable;'
No. 52, 'Self-denial;' No. 58, 'Actual, how short of fancied, excellence[991];' No. 89, 'Physical
evil moral goode[992];' and his concluding paper on 'The horrour of the last[993];' will prove
this assertion. I know not why a motto, the usual trapping of periodical papers, is prefixed
to very few of the Idlers, as I have heard Johnson commend the custom: and he never could be
at a loss for one, his memory being stored with innumerable passages of the classicks[994].
In this series of essays he exhibits admirable instances of grave humour, of which he had an
uncommon share. Nor on some occasions has he repressed that power of sophistry which he possessed
in so eminent a degree. In No. 11, he treats with the utmost contempt the opinion that our
mental faculties depend, in some degree, upon the weather; an opinion, which they who have
never experienced its truth are not to be envied; and of which he himself could not but be
sensible, as the effects of weather upon him were very visible. Yet thus he declaims:--

[Page 332: Influence of the weather. A.D. 1758.]

'Surely, nothing is more reproachful to a being endowed with reason, than to resign its powers
to the influence of the air, and live in dependence on the weather and the wind for the only
blessings which nature has put into our power, tranquillity and benevolence. This distinction
of seasons is produced only by imagination operating on luxury. To temperance, every day is
bright; and every hour is propitious to diligence. He that shall resolutely excite his faculties,
or exert his virtues, will soon make himself superiour to the seasons; and may set at defiance
the morning mist and the evening damp, the blasts of the east, and the clouds of the south[995].'

[Page 333: The attendants on a Court. AEtat 49.]

'I think the Romans call it Stoicism[996].'

But in this number of his Idler his spirits seem to run riot; for in the wantonness of his
disquisition he forgets, for a moment, even the reverence for that which he held in high respect[997];
and describes 'the attendant on a Court,' as one 'whose business, is to watch the looks of
a being, weak and foolish as himself[998].'

[Page 334: Johnson not a plagiary. A.D. 1758.]

Alas! it is too certain, that where the frame has delicate fibres, and there is a fine sensibility,
such influences of the air are irresistible. He might as well have bid defiance to the ague,
the palsy, and all other bodily disorders, Such boasting of the mind is false elevation.

His unqualified ridicule of rhetorical gesture or action is not, surely, a test of truth; yet
we cannot help admiring how well it is adapted to produce the effect which he wished. 'Neither
the judges of our laws, nor the representatives of our people, would be much affected by laboured
gesticulation, or believe any man the more because he rolled his eyes, or puffed his cheeks,
or spread abroad his arms, or stamped the ground, or thumped his breast; or turned his eyes
sometimes to the ceiling, and sometimes to the floor[999].'

A casual coincidence with other writers, or an adoption of a sentiment or image which has been
found in the writings of another, and afterwards appears in the mind as one's own, is not unfrequent.
The richness of Johnson's fancy, which could supply his page abundantly on all occasions, and
the strength of his memory, which at once detected the real owner of any thought, made him
less liable to the imputation of plagiarism than, perhaps, any of our writers[1000]. In The
Idler, however, there is a paper[1001], in which conversation is assimilated to a bowl of punch,
where there is the same train of comparison as in a poem by Blacklock, in his collection published
in 1756[1002], in which a parallel is ingeniously drawn between human life and that liquor.
It ends,--

'Say, then, physicians of each kind, Who cure the body or the mind, What harm in drinking can
there be, Since punch and life so well agree?'

[Page 335: Profits on The Idler. AEtat 49.]

To The Idler, when collected in volumes[1003], he added, beside the 'Essay on Epitaphs' and
the 'Dissertation on those of Pope[1004],' an Essay on the 'Bravery of the English common Soldiers.'
He, however, omitted one of the original papers, which in the folio copy is No. 22[1005].

'To THE REVEREND MR. THOMAS WARTON.

'DEAR SIR,

'Your notes upon my poet were very acceptable. I beg that you will be so kind as to continue
your searches. It will be reputable to my work, and suitable to your professorship, to have
something of yours in the notes. As you have given no directions about your name, I shall therefore
put it. I wish your brother would take the same trouble. A commentary must arise from the fortuitous
discoveries of many men in devious walks of literature. Some of your remarks are on plays already
printed: but I purpose to add an Appendix of Notes, so that nothing comes too late.

'You give yourself too much uneasiness, dear Sir, about the loss of the papers[1006]. The loss
is nothing, if nobody has found them; nor even then, perhaps, if the numbers be known. You
are not the only friend that has had the same mischance. You may repair your want out of a
stock, which is deposited with Mr. Allen, of Magdalen-Hall; or out of a parcel which I have
just sent to Mr. Chambers[1007] for the use of any body that will be so kind as to want them.
Mr. Langtons are well; and Miss Roberts[1008], whom I have at last brought to speak, upon the
information which you gave me, that she had something to say.

'I am, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London] April 14, 1758.'

[Page 336: Mr. Langton as an undergraduate. A.D. 1758.]

'TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'You will receive this by Mr. Baretti, a gentleman particularly intitled to the notice and
kindness of the Professor of poesy. He has time but for a short stay, and will be glad to have
it filled up with as much as he can hear and see.

'In recommending another to your favour, I ought not to omit thanks for the kindness which
you have shewn to myself. Have you any more notes on Shakspeare? I shall be glad of them.

'I see your pupil sometimes[1009]: his mind is as exalted as his stature[1010]. I am half afraid
of him; but he is no less amiable than formidable. He will, if the forwardness of his spring
be not blasted, be a credit to you, and to the University. He brings some of my plays[1011]
with him, which he has my permission to shew you, on condition you will hide them from every
body else.

[Page 337: Experience compared with expectation. AEtat 49.]

'I am, dear Sir, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'[London,] June 1, 1758.'

'To BENNET LANGTON, ESQ., OF TRINITY COLLEGE, OXFORD.

'DEAR SIR,

'Though I might have expected to hear from you, upon your entrance into a new state of life
at a new place, yet recollecting, (not without some degree of shame,) that I owe you a letter
upon an old account, I think it my part to write first. This, indeed, I do not only from complaisance
but from interest; for living on in the old way, I am very glad of a correspondent so capable
as yourself, to diversify the hours. You have, at present, too many novelties about you to
need any help from me to drive along your time.

'I know not any thing more pleasant, or more instructive, than to compare experience with expectation,
or to register from time to time the difference between idea and reality. It is by this kind
of observation that we grow daily less liable to be disappointed[1012]. You, who are very capable
of anticipating futurity, and raising phantoms before your own eyes, must often have imagined
to yourself an academical life, and have conceived what would be the manners, the views, and
the conversation, of men devoted to letters; how they would choose their companions, how they
would direct their studies, and how they would regulate their lives. Let me know what you expected,
and what you have found. At least record it to yourself before custom has reconciled you to
the scenes before you, and the disparity of your discoveries to your hopes has vanished from
your mind. It is a rule never to be forgotten, that whatever strikes strongly, should be described
while the first impression remains fresh upon the mind.

[Page 338: A violent death. A.D. 1759.]

'I love, dear Sir, to think on you, and therefore, should willingly write more to you, but
that the post will not now give me leave to do more than send my compliments to Mr. Warton,
and tell you that I am, dear Sir, most affectionately,

'Your very humble servant,

'SAM. Your mind is now full of the fate of Dury[1014]; but his fate is past, and nothing remains
but to try what reflection will suggest to mitigate the terrours of a violent death, which
is more formidable at the first glance, than on a nearer and more steady view. A violent death
is never very painful; the only danger is lest it should be unprovided. But if a man can be
supposed to make no provision for death in war, what can be the state that would have awakened
him to the care of futurity? When would that man have prepared himself to die, who went to
seek death without preparation? What then can be the reason why we lament more him that dies
of a wound, than him that dies of a fever? A man that languishes with disease, ends his life
with more pain, but with less virtue; he leaves no example to his friends, nor bequeaths any
honour to his descendants. The only reason why we lament a soldier's death, is, that we think
he might have lived longer; yet this cause of grief is common to many other kinds of death
which are not so passionately bewailed. The truth is, that every death is violent which is
the effect of accident; every death, which is not gradually brought on by the miseries of age,
or when life is extinguished for any other reason than that it is burnt out. He that dies before
sixty, of a cold or consumption, dies, in reality, by a violent death; yet his death is borne
with patience only because the cause of his untimely end is silent and invisible. Let us endeavour
to see things as they are, and then enquire whether we ought to complain. Whether to see life
as it is, will give us much consolation, I know not; but the consolation which is drawn from
truth, if any there be, is solid and durable; that which may be derived from errour must be,
like its original, fallacious and fugitive. I am, dear, dear Sir, your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Sept. 21, 1758.'

[Page 339: The death of Johnson's mother. I have been told that he regretted much his not having
gone to visit his mother for several years, previous to her death[1018].

[Page 340: Rasselas.

[Page 342: Rasselas and Candide. A.D. 1759.]

Considering the large sums which have been received for compilations, and works requiring not
much more genius than compilations[1024], we cannot but wonder at the very low price which
he was content to receive for this admirable performance; which, though he had written nothing
else, would have rendered his name immortal in the world of literature. None of his writings
has been so extensively diffused over Europe; for it has been translated into most, if not
all, of the modern languages[1025]. This Tale, with all the charms of oriental imagery, and
all the force and beauty of which the English language is capable, leads us through the most
important scenes of human life, and shews us that this stage of our being is full of 'vanity
and vexation of spirit[1026].' To those who look no further than the present life, or who maintain
that human nature has not fallen from the state in which it was created, the instruction of
this sublime story will be of no avail. But they who think justly, and feel with strong sensibility,
will listen with eagerness and admiration to its truth and wisdom.

The fund of thinking which this work contains is such, that almost every sentence of it may
furnish a subject of long meditation. I am not satisfied if a year passes without my having
read it through; and at every perusal, my admiration of the mind which produced it is so highly
raised, that I can scarcely believe that I had the honour of enjoying the intimacy of such a man.

[Page 343: Apparitions. AEtat 50.]

I restrain myself from quoting passages from this excellent work, or even referring to them,
because I should not know what to select, or rather, what to omit. I shall, however, transcribe
one, as it shews how well he could state the arguments of those who believe in the appearance
of departed spirits; a doctrine which it is a mistake to suppose that he himself ever positively
held[1028]:

'If all your fear be of apparitions, (said the Prince,) I will promise you safety: there is
no danger from the dead; he that is once buried will be seen no more.

'That the dead are seen no more, (said Imlac,) I will not undertake to maintain, against the
concurrent and unvaried testimony of all ages, and of all nations. There is no people, rude
or learned, among whom apparitions of the dead are not related and believed. This opinion,
which prevails[1029] as far as human nature is diffused, could become universal only by its
truth; those that never heard of one another, would not have agreed in a tale which nothing
but experience can make credible. That it is doubted by single cavillers, can very little weaken
the general evidence; and some who deny it with their tongues, confess it by their fears.'

Notwithstanding my high admiration of Rasselas, I will not maintain that the 'morbid melancholy[1030]'
in Johnson's constitution may not, perhaps, have made life appear to him more insipid and unhappy
than it generally is; for I am sure that he had less enjoyment from it than I have. Yet, whatever
additional shade his own particular sensations may have thrown on his representation of life,
attentive observation and close enquiry have convinced me, that there is too much of reality
in the gloomy picture. The truth, however, is, that we judge of the happiness and misery of
life differently at different times, according to the state of our changeable frame. I always
remember a remark made to me by a Turkish lady, educated in France, 'Ma foi, Monsieur, notre
bonheur depend de la facon que notre sang circule.' This have I learnt from a pretty hard course
of experience, and would, from sincere benevolence, impress upon all who honour this book with
a perusal, that until a steady conviction is obtained, that the present life is an imperfect
state, and only a passage to a better, if we comply with the divine scheme of progressive improvement;
and also that it is a part of the mysterious plan of Providence, that intellectual beings must
'be made perfect through suffering[1031];' there will be a continual recurrence of disappointment
and uneasiness. But if we walk with hope in 'the mid-day sun' of revelation, our temper and
disposition will be such, that the comforts and enjoyments in our way will be relished, while
we patiently support the inconveniences and pains. After much speculation and various reasonings,
I acknowledge myself convinced of the truth of Voltaire's conclusion, 'Apres tout c est un
monde passable[1032].' But we must not think too deeply;

'Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise[1033],'

is, in many respects, more than poetically just. Let us cultivate, under the command of good
principles, 'la theorie des sensations agreables;' and, as Mr. Burke once admirably counselled
a grave and anxious gentleman, 'live pleasant[1034].'

[Page 344: 'Live pleasant.' A.D. 1759.]

The effect of Rasselas, and of Johnson's other moral tales, is thus beautifully illustrated
by Mr. Courtenay:

'Impressive truth, in splendid fiction drest, Checks the vain wish, and calms the troubled
breast; O'er the dark mind a light celestial throws, And sooths the angry passions to repose;
As oil effus'd illumes and smooths the deep, When round the bark the swelling surges sweep[1035].'

[Page 345: The Idler pirated. AEtat 50.]

It will be recollected, that during all this year he carried on his Idler[1036], and, no doubt,
was proceeding, though slowly, in his edition of Shakspeare. He, however, from that liberality
which never failed, when called upon to assist other labourers in literature, found time to
translate for Mrs. Lennox's English version of Brumoy, 'A Dissertation on the Greek Comedy,'[dagger]
and 'The General Conclusion of the book.'[dagger]

An inquiry into the state of foreign countries was an object that seems at all times to have
interested Johnson. Hence Mr. Newbery found no great difficulty in persuading him to write
the Introduction[*] to a collection of voyages and travels published by him under the title
of The World Displayed; the first volume of which appeared this year, and the remaining volumes
in subsequent years.

[Page 346: Parental tyranny.

[Page 347: An excursion to Oxford. I have been in my gown ever since I came here[1040].

[Page 350: Life in Inner Temple-lane. A.D. 1759.]

What particular new scheme of life Johnson had in view this year, I have not discovered; but
that he meditated one of some sort, is clear from his private devotions, in which we find[1048],
'the change of outward things which I am now to make;' and, 'Grant me the grace of thy Holy
Spirit, that the course which I am now beginning may proceed according to thy laws, and end
in the enjoyment of thy favour.' But he did not, in fact, make any external or visible change[1049].

[Page 351: Blackfriars-bridge. AEtat 50.]

At this time, there being a competition among the architects of London to be employed in the
building of Blackfriars-bridge, a question was very warmly agitated whether semicircular or
elliptical arches were preferable. In the design offered by Mr. Mylne the elliptical form was
adopted, and therefore it was the great object of his rivals to attack it. Johnson's regard
for his friend Mr. Gwyn induced him to engage in this controversy against Mr. Mylne[1050];
and after being at considerable pains to study the subject, he wrote three several letters
in the Gazetteer, in opposition to his plan.

If it should be remarked that this was a controversy which lay quite out of Johnson's way,
let it be remembered, that after all, his employing his powers of reasoning and eloquence upon
a subject which he had studied on the moment, is not more strange than what we often observe
in lawyers, who, as Quicquid agunt homines[1051] is the matter of law-suits, are sometimes
obliged to pick up a temporary knowledge of an art or science, of which they understood nothing
till their brief was delivered, and appear to be much masters of it. In like manner, members
of the legislature frequently introduce and expatiate upon subjects of which they have informed
themselves for the occasion.

[Page 353: Relief of the French Prisoners. AEtat 51.]

1760: AETAT. 51].--In 1760 he wrote An Address of the Painters to George III. on his Accession
to the Throne of these Kingdoms,[dagger] which no monarch ever ascended with more sincere congratulations
from his people.

[Page 354: Mary Queen of Scots. The Stuarts have found few apologists, for the dead cannot
pay for praise; and who will, without reward, oppose the tide of popularity? Yet there remains
still among us, not wholly extinguished, a zeal for truth, a desire of establishing right in
opposition to fashion[1054]".

In this year I have not discovered a single private letter, written by him to any of his friends.
It should seem, however, that he had at this period a floating intention of writing a history
of the recent and wonderful successes of the British arms in all quarters of the globe; for
among his resolutions or memorandums, September 18, 'send for books for Hist. of War[1055].'
How much is it to be regretted that this intention was not fulfilled. His majestick expression
would have carried down to the latest posterity the glorious achievements of his country with
the same fervent glow which they produced on the mind of the time. He would have been under
no temptation to deviate in any degree from truth, which he held very sacred, or to take a
licence, which a learned divine told me he once seemed, in a conversation, jocularly to allow
to historians.

[Page 355: Consecrated lies. AEtat 51.]

'There are (said he) inexcusable lies, and consecrated lies. For instance, we are told that
on the arrival of the news of the unfortunate battle of Fontenoy, every heart beat, and every
eye was in tears. Now we know, that no man eat his dinner the worse[1056], but there should
have been all this concern; and to say there was, (smiling) may be reckoned a consecrated lie.'

This year Mr. Murphy, having thought himself ill-treated by the Reverend Dr. Francklin, who
was one of the writers of The Critical Review, published an indignant vindication in A Poetical
Epistle to Samuel Johnson, A.M., in which he compliments Johnson in a just and elegant manner:

Transcendant Genius! whose prolific vein Ne'er knew the frigid poet's toil and pain; To whom
APOLLO opens all his store, And every Muse presents her sacred lore; Say, pow'rful JOHNSON,
whence thy verse is fraught With so much grace and such energy of thought; Whether thy JUVENAL
instructs the age In chaster numbers, and new-points his rage; Or fair IRENE sees, alas! too
late. Her innocence exchang'd for guilty state; Whatever you write, in every golden line Sublimity
and elegance combine; Thy nervous phrase impresses every soul, While harmony gives rapture
to the whole.'

[Page 356: Arthur Murphy. A.D. 1760.]

Again, towards the conclusion:

'Thou then, my friend, who seest the dang'rous strife In which some demon bids me plunge my
life, To the Aonian fount direct my feet, Say where the Nine thy lonely musings meet? Where
warbles to thy ear the sacred throng, Thy moral sense, thy dignity of song? Tell, for you can,
by what unerring art You wake to finer feelings every heart; In each bright page some truth
important give, And bid to future times thy RAMBLER live[1057]?

[Page 357: Letter to Mr. Langston. I should be glad to have all England surveyed by you, if
you would impart your observations in narratives as agreeable as your last. Knowledge is always
to be wished to those who can communicate it well. While you have been riding and running,
and seeing the tombs of the learned, and the camps of the valiant, I have only staid at home,
and intended to do great things, which I have not done. Beau[1059] went away to Cheshire, and
has not yet found his way back. Chambers passed the vacation at Oxford.

'I am very sincerely solicitous for the preservation or curing of Mr. Langton's sight, and
am glad that the chirurgeon at Coventry gives him so much hope. Mr. Sharpe is of opinion that
the tedious maturation of the cataract is a vulgar errour, and that it may be removed as soon
as it is formed. This notion deserves to be considered; I doubt whether it be universally true;
but if it be true in some cases, and those cases can be distinguished, it may save a long and
uncomfortable delay.

'Of dear Mrs. Langton you give me no account; which is the less friendly, as you know how highly
I think of her, and how much I interest myself in her health. I suppose you told her of my
opinion, and likewise suppose it was not followed; however, I still believe it to be right.

[Page 358: Thomas Sheridan. A.D. 1761.]

'Let me hear from you again, wherever you are, or whatever you are doing; whether you wander
or sit still, plant trees or make Rusticks,[1060] play with your sisters or muse alone; and
in return I will tell you the success of Sheridan[1061], who at this instant is playing Cato,
and has already played Richard twice. He had more company the second than the first night,
and will make, I believe, a good figure in the whole, though his faults seem to be very many;
some of natural deficience, and some of laborious affectation. He has, I think, no power of
assuming either that dignity or elegance which some men, who have little of either in common
life, can exhibit on the stage. His voice when strained is unpleasing, and when low is not
always heard. He seems to think too much on the audience, and turns his face too often to the
galleries[1062].

'However, I wish him well; and among other reasons, because I like his wife[1063].

'Make haste to write to, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Oct. 18, 1760.'

[Page 359: Instances of literary fraud. AEtat 52.]

1761: AETAT. 52.--In 1761 Johnson appears to have done little. He was still, no doubt, proceeding
in his edition of Shakespeare; but what advances he made in it cannot be ascertained. He certainly
was at this time not active; for in his scrupulous examination of himself on Easter eve, he
laments, in his too rigorous mode of censuring his own conduct, that his life, since the communion
of the preceding Easter, had been 'dissipated and useless[1064].' He, however, contributed
this year the Preface[*] to Rolt's Dictionary of Trade and Commerce, in which he displays such
a clear and comprehensive knowledge of the subject, as might lead the reader to think that
its authour had devoted all his life to it. I asked him whether he knew much of Rolt, and of
his work. 'Sir, (said he) I never saw the man, and never read the book. The booksellers wanted
a Preface to a Dictionary of Trade and Commerce. I knew very well what such a Dictionary should
be, and I wrote a Preface accordingly.' Rolt, who wrote a great deal for the booksellers, was,
as Johnson told me, a singular character[1065]. Though not in the least acquainted with him,
he used to say, 'I am just come from Sam. Johnson.' This was a sufficient specimen of his vanity
and impudence. But he gave a more eminent proof of it in our sister kingdom, as Dr. Johnson
informed me. When Akenside's Pleasures of the Imagination first came out, he did not put his
name to the poem. Rolt went over to Dublin, published an edition of it, and put his own name
to it. Upon the fame of this he lived for several months, being entertained at the best tables
as 'the ingenious Mr. Rolt[1066].' His conversation indeed, did not discover much of the fire
of a poet; but it was recollected, that both Addison and Thomson were equally dull till excited
by wine. Akenside having been informed of this imposition, vindicated his right by publishing
the poem with its real authour's name. Several instances of such literary fraud have been detected.
The Reverend Dr. Campbell, of St. Andrew's, wrote An Enquiry into the original of Moral Virtue,
the manuscript of which he sent to Mr. Innes, a clergyman in England, who was his countryman
and acquaintance. Innes published it with his own name to it; and before the imposition was
discovered, obtained considerable promotion, as a reward of his merit[1067].

[Page 360: The Man of Feeling. A.D. 1781.]

The celebrated Dr. Hugh Blair, and his cousin Mr. George Bannatine, when students in divinity,
wrote a poem, entitled, The Resurrection, copies of which were handed about in manuscript.
They were, at length, very much surprised to see a pompous edition of it in folio, dedicated
to the Princess Dowager of Wales, by a Dr. Douglas, as his own. Some years ago a little novel,
entitled The Man of Feeling, was assumed by Mr. Eccles, a young Irish clergyman, who was afterwards
drowned near Bath[1068]. He had been at the pains to transcribe the whole book, with blottings,
interlineations, and corrections, that it might be shewn to several people as an original.
It was, in truth, the production of Mr. Henry Mackenzie, an Attorney in the Exchequer at Edinburgh,
who is the authour of several other ingenious pieces; but the belief with regard to Mr. Eccles
became so general, that it was thought necessary for Messieurs Strahan and Cadell to publish
an advertisement in the newspapers, contradicting the report, and mentioning that they purchase
the copyright of Mr. Mackenzie[1069]. I can conceive this kind of fraud to be very easily practised
with successful effrontery. The Filiation of a literary performance is difficult of proof;
seldom is there any witness present at its birth. A man, either in confidence or by improper
means, obtains possession of a copy of it in manuscript, and boldly publishes it as his own.
The true authour, in many cases, may not be able to make his title clear. Johnson, indeed,
from the peculiar features of his literary offspring, might bid defiance to any attempt to
appropriate them to others.

'But Shakspeare's magick could not copied be, Within that circle none durst walk but he[1070]!'

[Page 361: Letter to Mr. Baretti. AEtat 52.]

He this year lent his friendly assistance to correct and improve a pamphlet written by Mr.
Gwyn, the architect, entitled, Thoughts on the Coronation of George III.[*]

Johnson had now for some years admitted Mr. Baretti to his intimacy; nor did their friendship
cease upon their being separated by Baretti's revisiting his native country, as appears from
Johnson's letters to him.

'To MR. JOSEPH BARETTI, AT MILAN[1071].

[Page 362: Baretti's knowledge of languages. A.D. 1761.]

'You reproach me very often with parsimony of writing: but you may discover by the extent of
my paper, that I design to recompence rarity by length. A short letter to a distant friend
is, in my opinion, an insult like that of a slight bow or cursory salutation;--a proof of unwillingness
to do much, even where there is a necessity of doing something. Yet it must be remembered,
that he who continues the same course of life in the same place, will have little to tell.
One week and one year are very like one another. The silent changes made by time are not always
perceived; and if they are not perceived, cannot be recounted. I have risen and lain down,
talked and mused, while you have roved over a considerable part of Europe[1072]; yet I have
not envied my Baretti any of his pleasures, though, perhaps, I have envied others his company:
and I am glad to have other nations made acquainted with the character of the English, by a
traveller who has so nicely inspected our manners, and so successfully studied our literature.
I received your kind letter from Falmouth, in which you gave me notice of your departure for
Lisbon, and another from Lisbon, in which you told me, that you were to leave Portugal in a
few days. To either of these how could any answer be returned? I have had a third from Turin,
complaining that I have not answered the former. Your English style still continues in its
purity and vigour. With vigour your genius will supply it; but its purity must be continued
by close attention. To use two languages familiarly, and without contaminating one by the other,
is very difficult: and to use more than two is hardly to be hoped[1073]. The praises which
some have received for their multiplicity of languages, may be sufficient to excite industry,
but can hardly generate confidence.

'I know not whether I can heartily rejoice at the kind reception which you have found, or at
the popularity to which you are exalted. I am willing that your merit should be distinguished;
but cannot wish that your affections may be gained. I would have you happy wherever you are:
yet I would have you wish to return to England. If ever you visit us again, you will find the
kindness of your friends undiminished. To tell you how many enquiries are made after you, would
be tedious, or if not tedious, would be vain; because you may be told in a very few words,
that all who knew you wish you well; and that all that you embraced at your departure, will
caress you at your return: therefore do not let Italian academicians nor Italian ladies drive
us from your thoughts. You may find among us what you will leave behind, soft smiles and easy
sonnets. Yet I shall not wonder if all our invitations should be rejected: for there is a pleasure
in being considerable at home, which is not easily resisted.

[Page 363: The Exhibition of Pictures. AEtat 52.]

'By conducting Mr. Southwell[1074] to Venice, you fulfilled, I know, the original contract:
yet I would wish you not wholly to lose him from your notice, but to recommend him to such
acquaintance as may best secure him from suffering by his own follies, and to take such general
care both of his safety and his interest as may come within your power. His relations will
thank you for any such gratuitous attention: at least they will not blame you for any evil
that may happen, whether they thank you or not for any good.

'You know that we have a new King and a new Parliament. Of the new Parliament Fitzherbert[1075]
is a member. We were so weary of our old King, that we are much pleased with his successor;
of whom we are so much inclined to hope great things, that most of us begin already to believe
them. The young man is hitherto blameless; but it would be unreasonable to expect much from
the immaturity of juvenile years, and the ignorance of princely education. He has been long
in the hands of the Scots, and has already favoured them more than the English will contentedly
endure. But, perhaps, he scarcely knows whom he has distinguished, or whom he has disgusted.

'The Artists have instituted a yearly Exhibition[1076] of pictures and statues, in imitation,
as I am told, of foreign academies. This year was the second Exhibition. They please themselves
much with the multitude of spectators, and imagine that the English School will rise in reputation.
Reynolds is without a rival, and continues to add thousands to thousands, which he deserves,
among other excellencies, by retaining his kindness for Baretti. This Exhibition has filled
the heads of the Artists and lovers of art. Surely life, if it be not long, is tedious, since
we are forced to call in the assistance of so many trifles[1077] to rid us of our time, of
that time which never can return.

[Page 364: Johnson's indifference to pictures. A.D. 1761.]

[Page 365: Monastick life. AEtat 52.]

'I know my Baretti will not be satisfied with a letter in which I give him no account of myself:
yet what account shall I give him? I have not, since the day of our separation, suffered or
done any thing considerable. The only change in my way of life is, that I have frequented the
theatre more than in former seasons. But I have gone thither only to escape from myself. We
have had many new farces, and the comedy called The Jealous Wife[1078], which, though not written
with much genius, was yet so well adapted to the stage, and so well exhibited by the actors,
that it was crowded for near twenty nights. I am digressing from myself to the play-house;
but a barren plan must be filled with episodes. Of myself I have nothing to say, but that I
have hitherto lived without the concurrence of my own judgment; yet I continue to flatter myself,
that, when you return, you will find me mended. I do not wonder that, where the monastick life
is permitted, every order finds votaries, and every monastery inhabitants. Men will submit
to any rule, by which they may be exempted from the tyranny of caprice and of chance. They
are glad to supply by external authority their own want of constancy and resolution, and court
the government of others, when long experience has convinced them of their own inability to
govern themselves[1079]. If I were to visit Italy, my curiosity would be more attracted by
convents than by palaces: though I am afraid that I should find expectation in both places
equally disappointed, and life in both places supported with impatience and quitted with reluctance.
That it must be so soon quitted, is a powerful remedy against impatience; but what shall free
us from reluctance? Those who have endeavoured to teach us to die well, have taught few to
die willingly: yet I cannot but hope that a good life might end at last in a contented death.

'You see to what a train of thought I am drawn by the mention of myself. Let me now turn my
attention upon you. I hope you take care to keep an exact journal, and to register all occurrences
and observations[1080]; for your friends here expect such a book of travels as has not been
often seen. You have given us good specimens in your letters from Lisbon. I wish you had staid
longer in Spain[1081], for no country is less known to the rest of Europe; but the quickness
of your discernment must make amends for the celerity of your motions. He that knows which
way to direct his view, sees much in a little time.

[Page 366: Chronology of the Scriptures. A.D. 1762.]

'Write to me very often, and I will not neglect to write to you; and I may, perhaps, in time,
get something to write: at least, you will know by my letters, whatever else they may have
or want, that I continue to be

'Your most affectionate friend,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, June 10, 1761[1082].'

1762: AETAT. 53.--In 1762 he wrote for the Reverend Dr. Kennedy, Rector of Bradley in Derbyshire,
in a strain of very courtly elegance, a Dedication to the King[*] of that gentleman's work,
entitled, A complete System of Astronomical Chronology, unfolding the Scriptures. He had certainly
looked at this work before it was printed; for the concluding paragraph is undoubtedly of his
composition, of which let my readers judge:

'Thus have I endeavoured to free Religion and History from the darkness of a disputed and uncertain
chronology; from difficulties which have hitherto appeared insuperable, and darkness which
no luminary of learning has hitherto been able to dissipate. I have established the truth of
the Mosaical account, by evidence which no transcription can corrupt, no negligence can lose,
and no interest can pervert. I have shewn that the universe bears witness to the inspiration
of its historian, by the revolution of its orbs and the succession of its seasons; that the
stars in their courses fight against[1083] incredulity, that the works of GOD give hourly confirmation
to the law, the prophets, and the gospel, of which one day telleth another, and one night certifieth
another[1084]; and that the validity of the sacred writings can never be denied, while the
moon shall increase and wane, and the sun shall know his going down[1085].'

[Page 367: The care of living. AEtat 53.]

He this year wrote also the Dedication[Dagger] to the Earl of Middlesex of Mrs Lennox's Female
Quixote[1086], and the Preface to the Catalogue of the Artists' Exhibition.[Dagger]

The following letter, which, on account of its intrinsick merit, it would have been unjust
both to Johnson and the publick to have with-held, was obtained for me by the solicitation
of my friend Mr. Seward:

'To DR. STAUNTON, (NOW SIR GEORGE STAUNTON, BARONET[1087].)

'DEAR SIR,

'I make haste to answer your kind letter, in hope of hearing again from you before you leave
us. I cannot but regret that a man of your qualifications should find it necessary to seek
an establishment in Guadaloupe, which if a peace should restore to the French[1088], I shall
think it some alleviation of the loss, that it must restore likewise Dr. Staunton to the English.

'It is a melancholy consideration, that so much of our time is necessarily to be spent upon
the care of living, and that we can seldom obtain ease in one respect but by resigning it in
another; yet I suppose we are by this dispensation not less happy in the whole, than if the
spontaneous bounty of Nature poured all that we want into our hands. A few, if they were thus
left to themselves, would, perhaps, spend their time in laudable pursuits; but the greater
part would prey upon the quiet of each other, or, in the want of other objects, would prey
upon themselves.

'This, however, is our condition, which we must improve and solace as we can: and though we
cannot choose always our place of residence, we may in every place find rational amusements,
and possess in every place the comforts of piety and a pure conscience.

'In America there is little to be observed except natural curiosities. The new world must have
many vegetables and animals with which philosophers are but little acquainted. I hope you will
furnish yourself with some books of natural history, and some glasses and other instruments
of observation. Trust as little as you can to report; examine all you can by your own senses.
I do not doubt but you will be able to add much to knowledge, and, perhaps, to medicine. Wild
nations trust to simples; and, perhaps, the Peruvian bark is not the only specifick which those
extensive regions may afford us.

[Page 368: Improper expectations. A.D. 1762.]

'Wherever you are, and whatever be your fortune, be certain, dear Sir, that you carry with
you my kind wishes; and that whether you return hither, or stay in the other hemisphere[1089],
to hear that you are happy will give pleasure to, Sir,

'Your most affectionate humble servant,

'SAM.

[Page 369: Johnson's second letter to Baretti. Mr. Reynolds gets six thousands a year[1095].
Levet is lately married, not without much suspicion that he has been wretchedly cheated in
his match[1096].

[Page 370: Johnson's visit to Lichfield. A.D. 1762.]

[Page 371: All happiness borrowed from hope.

'I think in a few weeks to try another excursion[1102]; though to what end? Let me know, my
Baretti, what has been the result of your return to your own country: whether time has made
any alteration for the better, and whether, when the first raptures of salutation were over,
you did not find your thoughts confessed their disappointment.

'Moral sentences appear ostentatious and tumid, when they have no greater occasions than the
journey of a wit to his own town: yet such pleasures and such pains make up the general mass
of life; and as nothing is little to him that feels it with great sensibility, a mind able
to see common incidents in their real state, is disposed by very common incidents to very serious
contemplations. Let us trust that a time will come, when the present moment shall be no longer
irksome; when we shall not borrow all our happiness from hope, which at last is to end in disappointment.

'I beg that you will shew Mr. Beauclerk all the civilities which you have in your power; for
he has always been kind to me.

'I have lately seen Mr. Stratico, Professor of Padua, who has told me of your quarrel with
an Abbot of the Celestine order; but had not the particulars very ready in his memory. When
you write to Mr. Marsili[1103], let him know that I remember him with kindness. A.D. 1762.]

[Page 373: Johnson's pension.

[Page 374: Johnson's interview with Lord Bute.

[Page 375: Murphy's account of the pension.

His definitions of pension and pensioner, partly founded on the satirical verses of Pope[1110],
which he quotes, may be generally true; and yet every body must allow, that there may be, and
have been, instances of pensions given and received upon liberal and honourable terms. Thus,
then, it is clear, that there was nothing inconsistent or humiliating in Johnson's accepting
of a pension so unconditionally and so honourably offered to him.

[Page 376: Johnson's letter to Lord Bute. A.D. 1762.]

But I shall not detain my readers longer by any words of my own, on a subject on which I am
happily enabled, by the favour of the Earl of Bute, to present them with what Johnson himself
wrote; his lordship having been pleased to communicate to me a copy of the following letter
to his late father[1111], which does great honour both to the writer, and to the noble person
to whom it is addressed:

'TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE EARL OF BUTE.

'MY LORD,

'When the bills[1112] were yesterday delivered to me by Mr. Wedderburne, I was informed by
him of the future favours which his Majesty has, by your Lordship's recommendation, been induced
to intend for me.

'Bounty always receives part of its value from the manner in which it is bestowed; your Lordship's
kindness includes every circumstance that can gratify delicacy, or enforce obligation. You
have conferred your favours on a man who has neither alliance nor interest, who has not merited
them by services, nor courted them by officiousness; you have spared him the shame of solicitation,
and the anxiety of suspense.

[Page 377: A visit to Devonshire. AEtat 53.]

'What has been thus elegantly given, will, I hope, not be reproachfully enjoyed; I shall endeavour
to give your Lordship the only recompense which generosity desires,--the gratification of finding
that your benefits are not improperly bestowed. I am, my Lord,

'Your Lordship's most obliged,

'Most obedient, and most humble servant,

'SAM.

[Page 378: Johnson at Plymouth.

[Page 379: An enemy of the Dockers. A.D. 1762.]

Lord Macartney obligingly favoured me with a copy of the following letter, in his own hand-writing,
from the original, which was found, by the present Earl of Bute, among his father's papers.

'To THE RIGHT HONOURABLE THE EARL OF BUTE.

'MY LORD,

'That generosity, by which I was recommended to the favour of his Majesty, will not be offended
at a solicitation necessary to make that favour permanent and effectual.

'The pension appointed to be paid me at Michaelmas I have not received, and know not where
or from whom I am to ask it. I beg, therefore, that your Lordship will be pleased to supply
Mr. Wedderburne with such directions as may be necessary, which, I believe, his friendship
will make him think it no trouble to convey to me.

'To interrupt your Lordship, at a time like this, with such petty difficulties, is improper
and unseasonable; but your knowledge of the world has long since taught you, that every man's
affairs, however little, are important to himself. Every man hopes that he shall escape neglect;
and, with reason, may every man, whose vices do not preclude his claim, expect favour from
that beneficence which has been extended to,

'My Lord,

'Your Lordship's

'Most obliged

'And

'Most humble servant,

'Temple Lane                               'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Nov. 3, 1762.'

'TO MR. JOSEPH BARETTI, AT MILAN.

'London, Dec. 21, 1762.

SIR,

[Page 381: Love and marriage. AEtat 53.]

'You are not to suppose, with all your conviction of my idleness, that I have passed all this
time without writing to my Baretti. I gave a letter to Mr. Beauclerk, who, in my opinion, and
in his own, was hastening to Naples for the recovery of his health[1122]; but he has stopped
at Paris, and I know not when he will proceed. Langton is with him.

'I will not trouble you with speculations about peace and war. The good or ill success of battles
and embassies extends itself to a very small part of domestick life: we all have good and evil,
which we feel more sensibly than our petty part of publick miscarriage or prosperity[1123].
I am sorry for your disappointment, with which you seem more touched than I should expect a
man of your resolution and experience to have been, did I not know that general truths are
seldom applied to particular occasions; and that the fallacy of our self-love extends itself
as wide as our interest or affections. Every man believes that mistresses are unfaithful, and
patrons capricious; but he excepts his own mistress, and his own patron. We have all learned
that greatness is negligent and contemptuous, and that in Courts life is often languished away
in ungratified expectation; but he that approaches greatness, or glitters in a Court, imagines
that destiny has at last exempted him from the common lot.

'Do not let such evils overwhelm you as thousands have suffered, and thousands have surmounted;
but turn your thoughts with vigour to some other plan of life, and keep always in your mind,
that, with due submission to Providence, a man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself[1124].
Your Patron's weakness or insensibility will finally do you little hurt, if he is not assisted
by your own passions. Of your love I know not the propriety, nor can estimate the power; but
in love, as in every other passion, of which hope is the essence, we ought always to remember
the uncertainty of events. There is, indeed, nothing that so much seduces reason from vigilance,
as the thought of passing life with an amiable woman; and if all would happen that a lover
fancies, I know not what other terrestrial happiness would deserve pursuit. But love and marriage
are different states. Those who are to suffer the evils together, and to suffer often for the
sake of one another, soon lose that tenderness of look, and that benevolence of mind, which
arose from the participation of unmingled pleasure and successive amusement. A woman, we are
sure, will not be always fair; we are not sure she will always be virtuous: and man cannot
retain through life that respect and assiduity by which he pleases for a day or for a month.
I do not, however, pretend to have discovered that life has any thing more to be desired than
a prudent and virtuous marriage; therefore know not what counsel to give you.

[Page 382: Johnson's Life of Collins. A.D. 1763.]

'If you can quit your imagination of love and greatness, and leave your hopes of preferment
and bridal raptures to try once more the fortune of literature and industry, the way through
France is now open[1125]. We flatter ourselves that we shall cultivate, with great diligence,
the arts of peace; and every man will be welcome among us who can teach us any thing we do
not know[1126]. For your part, you will find all your old friends willing to receive you.

'Reynolds still continues to increase in reputation and in riches. Miss Williams, who very
much loves you, goes on in the old way. Miss Cotterel is still with Mrs. Porter. Miss Charlotte
is married to Dean Lewis, and has three children. Mr. Levet has married a street-walker[1127].
But the gazette of my narration must now arrive to tell you, that Bathurst went physician to
the army, and died at the Havannah[1128].

'I know not whether I have not sent you word that Huggins[1129] and Richardson[1130] are both
dead. When we see our enemies and friends gliding away before us, let us not forget that we
are subject to the general law of mortality, and shall soon be where our doom will be fixed
for ever.

'I pray GOD to bless you, and am, Sir,

'Your most affectionate humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Write soon.'

[Page 383: A dedication to the Queen. AEtat 54.]

1763: AETAT. 54.--In 1763 he furnished to The Poetical Calendar, published by Fawkes and Woty,
a character of Collins[*], which he afterwards ingrafted into his entire life of that admirable
poet[1131], in the collection of lives which he wrote for the body of English poetry, formed
and published by the booksellers of London. His account of the melancholy depression with which
Collins was severely afflicted, and which brought him to his grave, is, I think, one of the
most tender and interesting passages in the whole series of his writings[1132]. He also favoured
Mr. Hoole with the Dedication of his translation of Tasso to the Queen,[*] which is so happily
conceived and elegantly expressed, that I cannot but point it out to the peculiar notice of
my readers[1133].

[Page 384: Boswell's youthful compositions. A.D. 1763.]

[Page 385: Johnson's quarrel with Sheridan.

[Page 386: Sheridan's pension. Mr. Sheridan's pension was granted to him not as a player, but
as a sufferer in the cause of government, when he was manager of the Theatre Royal in Ireland,
when parties ran high in 1753[1139]. And it must also be allowed that he was a man of literature,
and had considerably improved the arts of reading and speaking with distinctness and propriety.

Besides, Johnson should have recollected that Mr. Sheridan taught pronunciation to Mr. Alexander
Wedderburne[1140], whose sister was married to Sir Harry Erskine[1141], an intimate friend
of Lord Bute, who was the favourite of the King; and surely the most outrageous Whig will not
maintain, that, whatever ought to be the principle in the disposal of offices, a pension ought
never to be granted from any bias of court connection. Mr. Macklin[1142], indeed, shared with
Mr. Sheridan the honour of instructing Mr. Wedderburne; and though it was too late in life
for a Caledonian to acquire the genuine English cadence, yet so successful were Mr. Wedderburne's
instructors, and his own unabating endeavours, that he got rid of the coarse part of his Scotch
accent, retaining only as much of the 'native wood-note wild[1143],' as to mark his country;
which, if any Scotchman should affect to forget, I should heartily despise him. Notwithstanding
the difficulties which are to be encountered by those who have not had the advantage of an
English education, he by degrees formed a mode of speaking to which Englishmen do not deny
the praise of elegance. Hence his distinguished oratory, which he exerted in his own country
as an advocate in the Court of Session, and a ruling elder of the Kirk, has had its fame and
ample reward, in much higher spheres. When I look back on this noble person at Edinburgh, in
situations so unworthy of his brilliant powers, and behold LORD LOUGHBOROUGH at London, the
change seems almost like one of the metamorphoses in Ovid; and as his two preceptors, by refining
his utterance, gave currency to his talents, we may say in the words of that poet, 'Nam vos
mutastis[1144],'

[Page 387: Lord Loughborough. AEtat 54.]

I have dwelt the longer upon this remarkable instance of successful parts and assiduity; because
it affords animating encouragement to other gentlemen of North-Britain to try their fortunes
in the southern part of the Island, where they may hope to gratify their utmost ambition; and
now that we are one people by the Union, it would surely be illiberal to maintain, that they
have not an equal title with the natives of any other part of his Majesty's dominions.

[Page 388: Sheridan's attack on Johnson. A.D. 1763.]

[Page 389: Mrs. Sheridan. I have no sympathetick feeling with such persevering resentment.
It is painful when there is a breach between those who have lived together socially and cordially;
and I wonder that there is not, in all such cases, a mutual wish that it should be healed.
I could perceive that Mr. Sheridan was by no means satisfied with Johnson's acknowledging him
to be a good man[1146]. That could not sooth his injured vanity. I could not but smile, at
the same time that I was offended, to observe Sheridan in The Life of Swift[1147], which he
afterwards published, attempting, in the writhings of his resentment, to depreciate Johnson,
by characterising him as 'A writer of gigantick fame in these days of little men;' that very
Johnson whom he once so highly admired and venerated.

[Page 390: Mr. Thomas Davies.

[Page 391: Mr. Davies's back-parlour.

[Page 392: Boswell's introduction to Johnson. A.D. 1763.]

[Page 393: His first record of Johnson's talk.

'People (he remarked) may be taken in once, who imagine that an authour is greater in private
life than other men. Uncommon parts require uncommon opportunities for their exertion.

'In barbarous society, superiority of parts is of real consequence. Great strength or great
wisdom is of much value to an individual. But in more polished times there are people to do
every thing for money; and then there are a number of other superiorities, such as those of
birth and fortune, and rank, that dissipate men's attention, and leave no extraordinary share
of respect for personal and intellectual superiority. This is wisely ordered by Providence,
to preserve some equality among mankind.'

[Page 394: Sheridan's lectures on Oratory. A.D. 1763.]

'Sir, this book (The Elements of Criticism'[1159], which he had taken up,) is a pretty essay,
and deserves to be held in some estimation, though much of it is chimerical.'

Speaking of one who with more than ordinary boldness attacked publick measures and the royal
family, he said,

'I think he is safe from the law, but he is an abusive scoundrel; and instead of applying to
my Lord Chief Justice to punish him, I would send half a dozen footmen and have him well ducked[1160].'

'The notion of liberty amuses the people of England, and helps to keep off the taedium vitae.
When a butcher tells you that his heart bleeds for his country, he has, in fact, no uneasy
feeling.'

'Sheridan will not succeed at Bath with his oratory. Ridicule has gone down before him, and,
I doubt, Derrick is his enemy[1161].'

'Derrick may do very well, as long as he can outrun his character; but the moment his character
gets up with him, it is all over.'

[Page 395: Boswell's first call on Johnson. A.D. 1763.]

'The morality of an action depends on the motive from which we act. If I fling half a crown
to a beggar with intention to break his head, and he picks it up and buys victuals with it,
the physical effect is good; but, with respect to me, the action is very wrong. So, religious
exercises, if not performed with an intention to please GOD, avail us nothing. As our Saviour
says of those who perform them from other motives, "Verily they have their reward[1171]."

'The Christian religion has very strong evidences[1172]. It, indeed, appears in some degree
strange to reason; but in History we have undoubted facts, against which, reasoning a priori,
we have more arguments than we have for them; but then, testimony has great weight, and casts
the balance. I took the liberty to ask if he did not think it wrong to live thus, and not make
more use of his great talents[1175].

[Page 399: Johnson the horse-rider.

My readers will, I trust, excuse me for being thus minutely circumstantial, when it is considered
that the acquaintance of Dr. Johnson was to me a most valuable acquisition, and laid the foundation
of whatever instruction and entertainment they may receive from my collections concerning the
great subject of the work which they are now perusing. A.D. 1763.]

[Page 401: The Mitre.

[Page 402: Cibber and Whitehead. Gibber's familiar style, however, was better than that which
Whitehead has assumed. Grand nonsense is insupportable[1180]. Whitehead is but a little man
to inscribe verses to players.'

I did not presume to controvert this censure, which was tinctured with his prejudice against
players[1181]; but I could not help thinking that a dramatick poet might with propriety pay
a compliment to an eminent performer, as Whitehead has very happily done in his verses to Mr.
Garrick[1182].

[Page 403: The abruptness of Gray's Ode. A.D. 1763.]

Here let it be observed, that although his opinion of Gray's poetry was widely different from
mine, and I believe from that of most men of taste[1187], by whom it is with justice highly
admired, there is certainly much absurdity in the clamour which has been raised, as if he had
been culpably injurious to the merit of that bard, and had been actuated by envy. Alas! ye
little short-sighted criticks, could JOHNSON be envious of the talents of any of his contemporaries?
That his opinion on this subject was what in private and in publick he uniformly expressed,
regardless of what others might think, we may wonder, and perhaps regret; but it is shallow
and unjust to charge him with expressing what he did not think.

[Page 405: The differences of Christians. Many of my readers, I am convinced, are to this hour
under an impression that Johnson was thus foolishly deceived.

[Page 408: Subordination. AEtat 54.]

I mentioned Mallet's tragedy of Elvira[1198], which had been acted the preceding winter at
Drury-lane, and that the Honourable Andrew Erskine[1199], Mr. Dempster[1200], and myself, had
joined in writing a pamphlet, entitled, Critical Strictures, against it[1201]. That the mildness
of Dempster's disposition had, however, relented; and he had candidly said, 'We have hardly
a right to abuse this tragedy: for bad as it is, how vain should either of us be to write one
not near so good.' JOHNSON. 'Why no, Sir; this is not just reasoning. You may abuse a tragedy,
though you cannot write one. You may scold a carpenter who has made you a bad table, though
you cannot make a table. It is not your trade to make tables.'

When I talked to him of the paternal estate to which I was heir, he said, 'Sir, let me tell
you, that to be a Scotch landlord, where you have a number of families dependent upon you,
and attached to you, is, perhaps, as high a situation as humanity can arrive at. A merchant
upon the 'Change of London, with a hundred thousand pounds, is nothing; an English Duke, with
an immense fortune, is nothing; he has no tenants who consider themselves as under his patriarchal
care, and who will follow him to the field upon an emergency.'

His notion of the dignity of a Scotch landlord had been formed upon what he had heard of the
Highland Chiefs; for it is long since a lowland landlord has been so curtailed in his feudal
authority, that he has little more influence over his tenants than an English landlord; and
of late years most of the Highland Chiefs have destroyed, by means too well known, the princely
power which they once enjoyed[1202].

[Page 410: Johnson's kindness of heart. A.D. 1763.]

He proceeded: 'Your going abroad, Sir, and breaking off idle habits, may be of great importance
to you. I would go where there are courts and learned men. There is a good deal of Spain that
has not been perambulated. I would have you go thither[1203]. A man of inferiour talents to
yours may furnish us with useful observations upon that country.' His supposing me, at that
period of life, capable of writing an account of my travels that would deserve to be read,
elated me not a little.

I appeal to every impartial reader whether this faithful detail of his frankness, complacency,
and kindness to a young man, a stranger and a Scotchman, does not refute the unjust opinion
of the harshness of his general demeanour. His occasional reproofs of folly, impudence, or
impiety, and even the sudden sallies of his constitutional irritability of temper, which have
been preserved for the poignancy of their wit, have produced that opinion among those who have
not considered that such instances, though collected by Mrs. Piozzi into a small volume, and
read over in a few hours, were, in fact, scattered through a long series of years; years, in
which his time was chiefly spent in instructing and delighting mankind by his writings and
conversation, in acts of piety to GOD, and good-will to men[1204].

I complained to him that I had not yet acquired much knowledge, and asked his advice as to
my studies[1205].

[Page 411: Oliver Goldsmith. AEtat 54.]

He wrote this year in the Critical Review the account of 'Telemachus, a Mask,' by the Reverend
George Graham, of Eton College[1206]. The subject of this beautiful poem was particularly interesting
to Johnson, who had much experience of 'the conflict of opposite principles,' which he describes
as 'The contention between pleasure and virtue, a struggle which will always be continued while
the present system of nature shall subsist: nor can history or poetry exhibit more than pleasure
triumphing over virtue, and virtue subjugating pleasure.'

[Page 412: Oliver Goldsmith. Those who were in any way distinguished, excited envy in him to
so ridiculous an excess, that the instances of it are hardly credible[1219]. I can do it better
myself[1223].'

[Page 415: The Vicar of Wakefield. AEtat 54.]

He, I am afraid, had no settled system of any sort[1224], so that his conduct must not be strictly
scrutinised; but his affections were social and generous, and when he had money he gave it
away very liberally. His desire of imaginary consequence predominated over his attention to
truth. When he began to rise into notice, he said he had a brother who was Dean of Durham[1225],
a fiction so easily detected, that it is wonderful how he should have been so inconsiderate
as to hazard it. 'Why, Sir, that knowledge may in some cases produce unhappiness, I allow.
But, upon the whole, knowledge, per se, is certainly an object which every man would wish to
attain, although, perhaps, he may not take the trouble necessary for attaining it[1234].'

[Page 418: Churchill's attack on Johnson. A.D. 1763.]

Dr. John Campbell[1235], the celebrated political and biographical writer, being mentioned,
Johnson said, 'Campbell is a man of much knowledge, and has a good share of imagination. His
Herinipptis Redivivus[1236] is very entertaining, as an account of the Hermetick philosophy,
and as furnishing a curious history of the extravagancies of the human mind. If it were merely
imaginary it would be nothing at all. Campbell is not always rigidly careful of truth in his
conversation; but I do not believe there is any thing of this carelessness in his books[1237].
This shews that he has good principles[1240]. I used to go pretty often to Campbell's on a
Sunday evening[1241] till I began to consider that the shoals of Scotchmen who flocked about
him might probably say, when any thing of mine was well done, 'Ay, ay, he has learnt this of
CAWMELL!'

[Page 419: Churchill's poetry. However, I will acknowledge that I have a better opinion of
him now, than I once had; for he has shewn more fertility than I expected[1244]. A.D. 1763.]

In this depreciation of Churchill's poetry I could not agree with him[1245]. It is very true
that the greatest part of it is upon the topicks of the day, on which account, as it brought
him great fame and profit at the time[1246], it must proportionally slide out of the publick
attention as other occasional objects succeed. But Churchill had extraordinary vigour both
of thought and expression. His portraits of the players will ever be valuable to the true lovers
of the drama; and his strong caricatures of several eminent men of his age, will not be forgotten
by the curious. Let me add, that there are in his works many passages which are of a general
nature[1247]; and his Prophecy of Famine is a poem of no ordinary merit. It is, indeed, falsely
injurious to Scotland, but therefore may be allowed a greater share of invention.

Bonnell Thornton had just published a burlesque Ode on St. Cecilia's day, adapted to the ancient
British musick, viz. the salt-box, the Jew's-harp, the marrow-bones and cleaver, the humstrum
or hurdy-gurdy, &c. Johnson praised its humour, and seemed much diverted with it. He repeated
the following passage:--

'In strains more exalted the salt-box shall join, And clattering and battering and clapping
combine; With a rap and a tap while the hollow side sounds, Up and down leaps the flap, and
with rattling rebounds[1248].

I mentioned the periodical paper called The Connoisseur[1249]. He said it wanted matter.--No
doubt it has not the deep thinking of Johnson's writings. But surely it has just views of the
surface of life, and a very sprightly manner. His opinion of The World was not much higher
than of the Connoisseur.

[Page 421: Tea with Miss Williams.

On Tuesday the 5th of July, I again visited Johnson. He told me he had looked into the poems
of a pretty voluminous writer, Mr. (now Dr.) John Ogilvie, one of the Presbyterian ministers
of Scotland, which had lately come out, but could find no thinking in them. BOSWELL. 'Is there
not imagination in them, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, there is in them what was imagination, but
it is no more imagination in him, than sound is sound in the echo. And his diction too is not
his own. We have long ago seen white-robed innocence, and flower-bespangled meads.'

[Page 422: The immensity of London. They, whose narrow minds are contracted to the consideration
of some one particular pursuit, view it only through that medium. A politician thinks of it
merely as the seat of government in its different departments; a grazier, as a vast market
for cattle; a mercantile man, as a place where a prodigious deal of business is done upon 'Change;
a dramatick enthusiast, as the grand scene of theatrical entertainments; a man of pleasure,
as an assemblage of taverns, and the great emporium for ladies of easy virtue. But the intellectual
man is struck with it, as comprehending the whole of human life in all its variety, the contemplation
of which is inexhaustible[1252].

[Page 423: Goldsmith's eagerness to shine. The fertility of Johnson's mind could shew itself
even upon so small a matter as this. 'Why, Sir, (said he,) I suppose this must be the law,
since you have been told so in Bow-street. But, if your landlord could hold you to your bargain,
and the lodgings should be yours for a year, you may certainly use them as you think fit.

[Page 424: The lawfulness of rebellion.

This generous sentiment, which he uttered with great fervour, struck me exceedingly, and stirred
my blood to that pitch of fancied resistance, the possibility of which I am glad to keep in
mind, but to which I trust I never shall be forced.

[Page 425: A Scotchman's noblest prospect. AEtat 54.]

'Great abilities (said he) are not requisite for an Historian; for in historical composition,
all the greatest powers of the human mind are quiescent. He has facts ready to his hand; so
there is no exercise of invention. Imagination is not required in any high degree; only about
as much as is used in the lower kinds of poetry.

[Page 427: Boswell's father. JOHNSON. 'Sir, you need not be afraid of his forcing you to be
a laborious practising lawyer; that is not in his power. For as the proverb says, "One man
may lead a horse to the water, but twenty cannot make him drink." He may be displeased that
you are not what he wishes you to be; but that displeasure will not go far. A.D. 1763.]

Talking of those who denied the truth of Christianity, he said, 'It is always easy to be on
the negative side. If a man were now to deny that there is salt upon the table, you could not
reduce him to an absurdity. Come, let us try this a little further. I deny that Canada is taken,
and I can support my denial by pretty good arguments. The French are a much more numerous people
than we; and it is not likely that they would allow us to take it. "But the ministry have assured
us, in all the formality of The Gazette, that it is taken."--Very true. But the ministry have
put us to an enormous expence by the war in America, and it is their interest to persuade us
that we have got something for our money.--"But the fact is confirmed by thousands of men who
were at the taking of it."--Ay, but these men have still more interest in deceiving us. They
don't want that you should think the French have beat them, but that they have beat the French.
Now suppose you should go over and find that it is really taken, that would only satisfy yourself;
for when you come home we will not believe you. We will say, you have been bribed.--Yet, Sir,
notwithstanding all these plausible objections, we have no doubt that Canada is really ours.
Such is the weight of common testimony. AEtat 54.]

To a man of vigorous intellect and arduous curiosity like his own, reading without a regular
plan may be beneficial; though even such a man must submit to it, if he would attain a full
understanding of any of the sciences. A.D. 1763.]

There was here, most certainly, an affectation of more Jacobitism than he really had; and indeed
an intention of admitting, for the moment, in a much greater extent than it really existed,
the charge of disaffection imputed to him by the world[1272], merely for the purpose of shewing
how dexterously he could repel an attack, even though he were placed in the most disadvantageous
position; for I have heard him declare, that if holding up his right hand would have secured
victory at Culloden to Prince Charles's army, he was not sure he would have held it up; so
little confidence had he in the right claimed by the house of Stuart, and so fearful was he
of the consequences of another revolution on the throne of Great-Britain; and Mr. Topham Beauclerk
assured me, he had heard him say this before he had his pension. At another time he said to
Mr. Langton, 'Nothing has ever offered, that has made it worth my while to consider the question
fully.' He, however, also said to the same gentleman, talking of King James the Second, 'It
was become impossible for him to reign any longer in this country.'[1273] He no doubt had an
early attachment to the House of Stuart; but his zeal had cooled as his reason strengthened.
Indeed I heard him once say, that 'after the death of a violent Whig, with whom he used to
contend with great eagerness, he felt his Toryism much abated.'[1274] I suppose he meant Mr.
Walmsley. [1275]

[Page 431: Whiggism. I at this time kept up a very frequent correspondence with Sir David;
and I read to Dr. Johnson to-night the following passage from the letter which I had last received
from him:--

'It gives me pleasure to think that you have obtained the friendship of Mr. Samuel Johnson.
He is one of the best moral writers which England has produced. At the same time, I envy you
the free and undisguised converse with such a man. May I beg you to present my best respects
to him, and to assure him of the veneration which I entertain for the authour of the Rambler
and of Rasselas? Let me recommend this last work to you; with the Rambler you certainly are
acquainted. In Rasselas you will see a tender-hearted operator, who probes the wound only to
heal it. Swift, on the contrary, mangles human nature. He cuts and slashes, as if he took pleasure
in the operation, like the tyrant who said, Ita feri ut se sentiat emori[1282].'

[Page 433: Journal-keeping. AEtat 54.]

Johnson seemed to be much gratified by this just and well-turned compliment.

He recommended to me to keep a journal of my life, full and unreserved[1283]. His poetry, for
the style of which he himself makes a frank apology, 'Jargonnant un Francois barbare,' though
fraught with pernicious ravings of infidelity, has, in many places, great animation, and in
some a pathetick tenderness[1290].

Upon this contemptuous animadversion on the King of Prussia, I observed to Johnson, 'It would
seem then, Sir, that much less parts are necessary to make a King, than to make an Authour;
for the King of Prussia is confessedly the greatest King now in Europe, yet you think he makes
a very poor figure as an Authour.'

[Page 436: Johnson's library. I found a number of good books, but very dusty and in great confusion[1292].

[Page 437: Copyright in books. Johnson, though he concurred in the opinion which was afterwards
sanctioned by a judgement of the House of Lords[1296], that there was no such right, was at
this time very angry that the Booksellers of London, for whom he uniformly professed much regard,
should suffer from an invasion of what they had ever considered to be secure: and he was loud
and violent against Mr. Donaldson. 'He is a fellow who takes advantage of the law to injure
his brethren; for, notwithstanding that the statute secures only fourteen years of exclusive
right, it has always been understood by the trade[1297], that he, who buys the copyright of
a book from the authour, obtains a perpetual property; and upon that belief, numberless bargains
are made to transfer that property after the expiration of the statutory term. Now Donaldson,
I say, takes advantage here, of people who have really an equitable title from usage; and if
we consider how few of the books, of which they buy the property, succeed so well as to bring
profit, we should be of opinion that the term of fourteen years is too short; it should be
sixty years.' DEMPSTER. 'Donaldson, Sir, is anxious for the encouragement of literature. He
reduces the price of books, so that poor students may buy them[1298].' JOHNSON, (laughing)
'Well, Sir, allowing that to be his motive, he is no better than Robin Hood, who robbed the
rich in order to give to the poor.'

[Page 439: Humes style. AEtat 54.]

It is remarkable, that when the great question concerning Literary Property came to be ultimately
tried before the supreme tribunal of this country, in consequence of the very spirited exertions
of Mr. Donaldson[1299], Dr. Johnson was zealous against a perpetuity; but he thought that the
term of the exclusive right of authours should be considerably enlarged. He was then for granting
a hundred years.

The conversation now turned upon Mr. David Hume's style. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, his style is not
English; the structure of his sentences is French[1300]. Now the French structure and the English
structure may, in the nature of things, be equally good. But if you allow that the English
language is established, he is wrong. My name might originally have been Nicholson, as well
as Johnson; but were you to call me Nicholson now, you would call me very absurdly.'

[Page 440: Merit set against fortune.

[Page 441: The 'advantages' of poverty. AEtat 54.]

I said, I considered distinction of rank to be of so much importance in civilised society,
that if I were asked on the same day to dine with the first Duke in England, and with the first
man in Britain for genius, I should hesitate which to prefer. JOHNSON. 'To be sure, Sir, if
you were to dine only once, and it were never to be known where you dined, you would choose
rather to dine with the first man for genius; but to gain most respect, you should dine with
the first Duke in England.

[Page 444: Sceptical innovators. A.D. 1763.]

Next morning I found him alone, and have preserved the following fragments of his conversation.
Of a gentleman[1309] who was mentioned, he said, 'I have not met with any man for a long time
who has given me such general displeasure. He is totally unfixed in his principles, and wants
to puzzle other people. I said his principles had been poisoned by a noted infidel writer,
but that he was, nevertheless, a benevolent good man. JOHNSON. 'We can have no dependance upon
that instinctive, that constitutional goodness which is not founded upon principle. I grant
you that such a man may be a very amiable member of society. I can conceive him placed in such
a situation that he is not much tempted to deviate from what is right; and as every man prefers
virtue, when there is not some strong incitement to transgress its precepts, I can conceive
him doing nothing wrong. But if such a man stood in need of money, I should not like to trust
him; and I should certainly not trust him with young ladies, for there there is always temptation.
Hume, and other sceptical innovators, are vain men, and will gratify themselves at any expence.
Truth will not afford sufficient food to their vanity; so they have betaken themselves to errour.
Truth, Sir, is a cow which will yield such people no more milk, and so they are gone to milk
the bull[1310]. If I could have allowed myself to gratify my vanity at the expence of truth,
what fame might I have acquired. Every thing which Hume has advanced against Christianity had
passed through my mind long before he wrote. Always remember this, that after a system is well
settled upon positive evidence, a few partial objections ought not to shake it. The human mind
is so limited, that it cannot take in all the parts of a subject, so that there may be objections
raised against any thing. There are objections against a plenum, and objections against a vacuum;
yet one of them must certainly be true[1311].'

[Page 445: The proofs of Christianity. AEtat 54.]

I mentioned Hume's argument against the belief of miracles, that it is more probable that the
witnesses to the truth of them are mistaken, or speak falsely, than that the miracles should
be true[1312]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, the great difficulty of proving miracles should make us
very cautious in believing them. But let us consider; although GOD has made Nature to operate
by certain fixed laws, yet it is not unreasonable to think that he may suspend those laws,
in order to establish a system highly advantageous to mankind. Now the Christian religion is
a most beneficial system, as it gives us light and certainty where we were before in darkness
and doubt. The miracles which prove it are attested by men who had no interest in deceiving
us; but who, on the contrary, were told that they should suffer persecution, and did actually
lay down their lives in confirmation of the truth of the facts which they asserted. Indeed,
for some centuries the heathens did not pretend to deny the miracles; but said they were performed
by the aid of evil spirits. This is a circumstance of great weight. Then, Sir, when we take
the proofs derived from prophecies which have been so exactly fulfilled, we have most satisfactory
evidence. A.D. 1763.]

This account of his reading, given by himself in plain words, sufficiently confirms what I
have already advanced upon the disputed question as to his application. It reconciles any seeming
inconsistency in his way of talking upon it at different times; and shews that idleness and
reading hard were with him relative terms, the import of which, as used by him, must be gathered
from a comparison with what scholars of different degrees of ardour and assiduity have been
known to do. And let it be remembered, that he was now talking spontaneously, and expressing
his genuine sentiments; whereas at other times he might be induced from his spirit of contradiction,
or more properly from his love of argumentative contest, to speak lightly of his own application
to study. It is pleasing to consider that the old gentleman's gloomy prophecy as to the irksomeness
of books to men of an advanced age, which is too often fulfilled, was so far from being verified
in Johnson, that his ardour for literature never failed, and his last writings had more ease
and vivacity than any of his earlier productions.

He mentioned to me now, for the first time, that he had been distrest by melancholy, and for
that reason had been obliged to fly from study and meditation, to the dissipating variety of
life. Against melancholy he recommended constant occupation of mind, a great deal of exercise,
moderation in eating and drinking, and especially to shun drinking at night. He said melancholy
people were apt to fly to intemperance for relief, but that it sunk them much deeper in misery[1316].
He observed, that labouring men who work hard, and live sparingly, are seldom or never troubled
with low spirits.

[Page 447: Mrs. Macaulay's footman. AEtat 54.]

[Page 448: Levelling up. I wondered that he delayed so long to give us the continuation of
it[1319]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, I suppose he finds himself a little disappointed, in not having
been able to persuade the world to be of his opinion as to Pope.'

We have now been favoured with the concluding volume, in which, to use a parliamentary expression,
he has explained, so as not to appear quite so adverse to the opinion of the world, concerning
Pope, as was at first thought[1320]; and we must all agree that his work is a most valuable
accession to English literature.

[Page 449: Sir James Macdonald. AEtat 54.]

A writer of deserved eminence[1321] being mentioned, Johnson said, 'Why, Sir, he is a man of
good parts, but being originally poor, he has got a love of mean company and low jocularity;
a very bad thing, Sir. To laugh is good, as to talk is good. But you ought no more to think
it enough if you laugh, than you are to think it enough if you talk. You may laugh in as many
ways as you talk; and surely every way of talking that is practised cannot be esteemed.'

[Page 450: Mark's WESTERN ISLES. A.D. 1763.]

I spoke of Sir James Macdonald[1322] as a young man of most distinguished merit, who united
the highest reputation at Eaton and Oxford, with the patriarchal spirit of a great Highland
Chieftain. I mentioned that Sir James had said to me, that he had never seen Mr. Johnson, but
he had a great respect for him, though at the same time it was mixed with some degree of terrour[1323].
JOHNSON. 'Sir, if he were to be acquainted with me, it might lessen both.'

[Page 451: A schoolboy's happiness. AEtat 54.]

The mention of this gentleman led us to talk of the Western Islands of Scotland, to visit which
he expressed a wish that then appeared to me a very romantick fancy, which I little thought
would be afterwards realised[1324]. He told me, that his father had put Martin's account of
those islands into his hands when he was very young, and that he was highly pleased with it;
that he was particularly struck with the St. Kilda man's notion that the high church of Glasgow
had been hollowed out of a rock[1325]; a circumstance to which old Mr. Johnson had directed
his attention. Men have a solicitude about fame[1328]; and the greater share they have of it,
the more afraid they are of losing it.' I silently asked myself, 'Is it possible that the great
SAMUEL JOHNSON really entertains any such apprehension, and is not confident that his exalted
fame is established upon a foundation never to be shaken?'

He this evening drank a bumper to Sir David Dalrymple[1329], 'as a man of worth, a scholar,
and a wit.' 'I have (said he) never heard of him except from you; but let him know my opinion
of him: for as he does not shew himself much in the world, he should have the praise of the
few who hear of him.'

[Page 452: The Tale Of A Tub. 'I do not think so, Sir. He is, indeed, continually attempting
wit, but he fails. And I have no more pleasure in hearing a man attempting wit and failing,
than in seeing a man trying to leap over a ditch and tumbling into it.'

He laughed heartily, when I mentioned to him a saying of his concerning Mr. Thomas Sheridan,
which Foote took a wicked pleasure to circulate. 'Why, Sir, Sherry is dull, naturally dull;
but it must have taken him a great deal of pains to become what we now see him. Such an excess
of stupidity, Sir, is not in Nature.' 'So (said he,) I allowed him all his own merit.'

[Page 454: Experience the test of truth. A.D. 1763.]

He now added, 'Sheridan cannot bear me. I bring his declamation to a point. I ask him a plain
question, 'What do you mean to teach?' Besides, Sir, what influence can Mr. Sheridan have upon
the language of this great country, by his narrow exertions? Sir, it is burning a farthing
candle at Dover, to shew light at Calais[1334].'

Talking of a young man[1335] who was uneasy from thinking that he was very deficient in learning
and knowledge, he said, 'A man has no reason to complain who holds a middle place, and has
many below him; and perhaps he has not six of his years above him;--perhaps not one. Though
he may not know any thing perfectly, the general mass of knowledge that he has acquired is
considerable. Time will do for him all that is wanting.'

The conversation then took a philosophical turn. JOHNSON. 'Human experience, which is constantly
contradicting theory, is the great test of truth. A system, built upon the discoveries of a
great many minds, is always of more strength, than what is produced by the mere workings of
any one mind, which, of itself, can do little. There is not so poor a book in the world that
would not be a prodigious effort were it wrought out entirely by a single mind, without the
aid of prior investigators. The French writers are superficial[1336]; because they are not
scholars, and so proceed upon the mere power of their own minds; and we see how very little
power they have.'

[Page 455: The University of Salamancha. I remember him with kindness. Yet I cannot withhold
from my readers a pleasant humourous sally which could not have hurt him had he been alive,
and now is perfectly harmless. In his collection of poems, there is one upon entering the harbour
of Dublin, his native city, after a long absence. It begins thus:

'Eblana! much lov'd city, hail! Where first I saw the light of day.'

And after a solemn reflection on his being 'numbered with forgotten dead,' there is the following
stanza:

'Unless my lines protract my fame,
  And those, who chance to read them, cry,
I knew him! Derrick was his name,
  In yonder tomb his ashes lie.'

Which was thus happily parodied by Mr. John Home, to whom we owe the beautiful and pathetick
tragedy of Douglas:

'Unless my deeds protract my fame,
  And he who passes sadly sings,
I knew him! Derrick was his name,
  On yonder tree his carcase swings!'

[Page 457: A day at Greenwich. AEtat 54.]

I doubt much whether the amiable and ingenious author of these burlesque lines will recollect
them, for they were produced extempore one evening while he and I were walking together in
the dining-room at Eglintoune Castle, in 1760, and I have never mentioned them to him since.

[Page 458: The Desire of Knowledge.

[Page 459: The Methodists. AEtat 54.]

[Page 460: A course of study. A.D. 1763.]

I talked of preaching, and of the great success which those called Methodists[1348] have.

Buchanan, he said, was a very fine poet; and observed, that he was the first who complimented
a lady, by ascribing to her the different perfections of the heathen goddesses[1351]; but that
Johnston[1352] improved upon this, by making his lady, at the same time, free from their defects.

He dwelt upon Buchanan's elegant verses to Mary Queen of Scots, Nympha Caledoniae, &c., and
spoke with enthusiasm of the beauty of Latin verse. 'All the modern languages (said he) cannot
furnish so melodious a line as

'Formosam resonare doces Amarillida silvas[1353].'

[Page 461: Nature and Fleet-street. AEtat 54.]

Afterwards he entered upon the business of the day, which was to give me his advice as to a
course of study. And here I am to mention with much regret, that my record of what he said
is miserably scanty. I recollect with admiration an animating blaze of eloquence, which rouzed
every intellectual power in me to the highest pitch, but must have dazzled me so much, that
my memory could not preserve the substance of his discourse[1354]; for the note which I find
of it is no more than this:--'He ran over the grand scale of human knowledge; advised me to
select some particular branch to excel in, but to acquire a little of every kind.' The defect
of my minutes will be fully supplied by a long letter upon the subject which he favoured me
with, after I had been some time at Utrecht, and which my readers will have the pleasure to
peruse in its proper place. We must all have experienced how very differently we are affected
by the complaints of our neighbours, when we are well and when we are ill. In full health,
we can scarcely believe that they suffer much; so faint is the image of pain upon our imagination:
when softened by sickness, we readily sympathize with the sufferings of others.

[Page 463: Tea with Miss Williams.

I mentioned an imprudent publication[1363], by a certain friend of his, at an early period
of life, and asked him if he thought it would hurt him. JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; not much.

[Page 464: Convocation.

I must not omit to mention that he this year wrote The Life of Ascham[dagger], and the Dedication
to the Earl of Shaftesbury[dagger], prefixed to the edition of that writer's English works,
published by Mr. Bennet[1367].

[Page 465: In the Harwich stage coach. AEtat 54.]

[Page 466: Blacklock's poetry.

He talked of Mr. Blacklock's poetry, so far as it was descriptive of visible objects; and observed,
that 'as its authour had the misfortune to be blind, we may be absolutely sure that such passages
are combinations of what he has remembered of the works of other writers who could see. That
foolish fellow, Spence, has laboured to explain philosophically how Blacklock may have done,
by means of his own faculties, what it is impossible he should do[1369]. The solution, as I
have given it, is plain. Suppose, I know a man to be so lame that he is absolutely incapable
to move himself, and I find him in a different room from that in which I left him; shall I
puzzle myself with idle conjectures, that, perhaps, his nerves have by some unknown change
all at once become effective? No, Sir; it it clear how he got into a different room: he was
carried.'

[Page 467: Torture in Holland. AEtat 54.]

Having stopped a night at Colchester[1370], Johnson talked of that town with veneration, for
having stood a siege for Charles the First. The Dutchman alone now remained with us. He spoke
English tolerably well; and thinking to recommend himself to us by expatiating on the superiority
of the criminal jurisprudence of this country over that of Holland, he inveighed against the
barbarity of putting an accused person to the torture, in order to force a confession[1371].
But Johnson was as ready for this, as for the Inquisition. 'Why, Sir, you do not, I find, understand
the law of your own country. The torture in Holland is considered as a favour to an accused
person; for no man is put to the torture there, unless there is as much evidence against him
as would amount to conviction in England. An accused person among you, therefore, has one chance
more to escape punishment, than those who are tried among us.'

[Page 468: Johnson's relish for good eating. A.D. 1763.]

[Page 469: A critick of cookery. AEtat 54.]

[Page 470: Studied behaviour. He told me, that he had fasted two days without inconvenience,
and that he had never been hungry but once[1377]. It would not be terrible, though I were to
be detained some time here.' The practice of using words of disproportionate magnitude, is,
no doubt, too frequent every where; but, I think, most remarkable among the French, of which,
all who have travelled in France must have been struck with innumerable instances. To me it
is not conceivable how Berkeley can be answered by pure reasoning; but I know that the nice
and difficult task was to have been undertaken by one of the most luminous minds of the present
age, had not politicks 'turned him from calm philosophy aside[1387].' What an admirable display
of subtilty, united with brilliance, might his contending with Berkeley have afforded us[1388]!

[Page 473: Johnson's first letter to Boswell. AEtat 54.]

Utrecht seeming at first very dull to me, after the animated scenes of London, my spirits were
grievously affected; and I wrote to Johnson a plaintive and desponding letter, to which he
paid no regard. Afterwards, when I had acquired a firmer tone of mind, I wrote him a second
letter, expressing much anxiety to hear from him. At length I received the following epistle,
which was of important service to me, and, I trust, will be so to many others.

'A MR. BOSWELL, A LA COUR DE L'EMPEREUR, UTRECHT.

'DEAR SIR,

'You are not to think yourself forgotten, or criminally neglected, that you have had yet no
letter from me. I love to see my friends, to hear from them, to talk to them, and to talk of
them; but it is not without a considerable effort of resolution that I prevail upon myself
to write. I would not, however, gratify my own indolence by the omission of any important duty,
or any office of real kindness.

[Page 474: Boswell's character sketched by Johnson. A.D. 1763.]

'To tell you that I am or am not well, that I have or have not been in the country, that I
drank your health in the room in which we sat last together, and that your acquaintance continue
to speak of you with their former kindness, topicks with which those letters are commonly filled
which are written only for the sake of writing, I seldom shall think worth communicating; but
if I can have it in my power to calm any harassing disquiet, to excite any virtuous desire,
to rectify any important opinion, or fortify any generous resolution, you need not doubt but
I shall at least wish to prefer the pleasure of gratifying a friend much less esteemed than
yourself, before the gloomy calm of idle vacancy. Whether I shall easily arrive at an exact
punctuality of correspondence, I cannot tell. I shall, at present, expect that you will receive
this in return for two which I have had from you. The first, indeed, gave me an account so
hopeless of the state of your mind, that it hardly admitted or deserved an answer; by the second
I was much better pleased: and the pleasure will still be increased by such a narrative of
the progress of your studies, as may evince the continuance of an equal and rational application
of your mind to some useful enquiry.

'You will, perhaps, wish to ask, what study I would recommend. I shall not speak of theology,
because it ought not to be considered as a question whether you shall endeavour to know the
will of GOD.

'I shall, therefore, consider only such studies as we are at liberty to pursue or to neglect;
and of these I know not how you will make a better choice, than by studying the civil law,
as your father advises, and the ancient languages, as you had determined for yourself; at least
resolve, while you remain in any settled residence, to spend a certain number of hours every
day amongst your books. The dissipation of thought, of which you complain, is nothing more
than the vacillation of a mind suspended between different motives, and changing its direction
as any motive gains or loses strength. If you can but kindle in your mind any strong desire,
if you can but keep predominant any wish for some particular excellence or attainment, the
gusts of imagination will break away, without any effect upon your conduct, and commonly without
any traces left upon the memory.

[Page 475: The Frisick language. AEtat 54.]

'There lurks, perhaps, in every human heart a desire of distinction, which inclines every man
first to hope, and then to believe, that Nature has given him something peculiar to himself.
This vanity makes one mind nurse aversion, and another actuate desires, till they rise by art
much above their original state of power; and as affectation, in time, improves to habit, they
at last tyrannise over him who at first encouraged them only for show. Every desire is a viper
in the bosom, who, while he was chill, was harmless; but when warmth gave him strength, exerted
it in poison. You know a gentleman, who, when first he set his foot in the gay world, as he
prepared himself to whirl in the vortex of pleasure, imagined a total indifference and universal
negligence to be the most agreeable concomitants of youth, and the strongest indication of
an airy temper and a quick apprehension. Vacant to every object, and sensible of every impulse,
he thought that all appearance of diligence would deduct something from the reputation of genius;
and hoped that he should appear to attain, amidst all the ease of carelessness, and all the
tumult of diversion, that knowledge and those accomplishments which mortals of the common fabrick
obtain only by mute abstraction and solitary drudgery. He tried this scheme of life awhile,
was made weary of it by his sense and his virtue; he then wished to return to his studies;
and finding long habits of idleness and pleasure harder to be cured than he expected, still
willing to retain his claim to some extraordinary prerogatives, resolved the common consequences
of irregularity into an unalterable decree of destiny, and concluded that Nature had originally
formed him incapable of rational employment.

'Let all such fancies, illusive and destructive, be banished henceforward from your thoughts
for ever. Resolve, and keep your resolution; choose, and pursue your choice. If you spend this
day in study, you will find yourself still more able to study to-morrow; not that you are to
expect that you shall at once obtain a complete victory. Depravity is not very easily overcome.
Resolution will sometimes relax, and diligence will sometimes be interrupted; but let no accidental
surprise or deviation, whether short or long, dispose you to despondency. Consider these failings
as incident to all mankind. Begin again where you left off, and endeavour to avoid the seducements
that prevailed over you before.

'This, my dear Boswell, is advice which, perhaps, has been often given you, and given you without
effect. But this advice, if you will not take from others, you must take from your own reflections,
if you purpose to do the duties of the station to which the bounty of Providence has called you.

'Let me have a long letter from you as soon as you can. I hope you continue your journal, and
enrich it with many observations upon the country in which you reside. It will be a favour
if you can get me any books in the Frisick language, and can enquire how the poor are maintained
in the Seven Provinces. I am, dear Sir,

              'Your most affectionate servant,
                            'SAM. JOHNSON.'
  'London, Dec. 8, 1763.'

I am sorry to observe, that neither in my own minutes, nor in my letters to Johnson, which
have been preserved by him, can I find any information how the poor are maintained in the Seven
Provinces. But I shall extract from one of my letters what I learnt concerning the other subject
of his curiosity.

[Page 476: Johnson's visit to Langton. A.D. 1764.]

'I have made all possible enquiry with respect to the Frisick language, and find that it has
been less cultivated than any other of the northern dialects; a certain proof of which is their
deficiency of books. Of the old Frisick there are no remains, except some ancient laws preserved
by Schotanus in his Beschryvinge van die Heerlykheid van Friesland; and his Historia Frisica.
I have not yet been able to find these books. Professor Trotz, who formerly was of the University
of Vranyken in Friesland, and is at present preparing an edition of all the Frisick laws, gave
me this information. Of the modern Frisick, or what is spoken by the boors at this day, I have
procured a specimen. It is Gisbert Japix's Rymelerie, which is the only book that they have.
It is amazing, that they have no translation of the bible, no treatises of devotion, nor even
any of the ballads and storybooks which are so agreeable to country people. You shall have
Japix by the first convenient opportunity. I doubt not to pick up Schotanus. He, however, told
me, that old Mr. Langton, though a man of considerable learning, had so little allowance to
make for his occasional 'laxity of talk[1392],' that because in the course of discussion he
sometimes mentioned what might be said in favour of the peculiar tenets of the Romish church,
he went to his grave believing him to be of that communion[1393]. A.D. 1764.]

[Page 479: List of the members. This club has been gradually increased to its present number,
thirty-five[1402].

[Page 480: Garrick and the Literary Club. A.D. 1764.]

Sir John Hawkins[1405] represents himself as a 'seceder' from this society, and assigns as
the reason of his 'withdrawing' himself from it, that its late hours were inconsistent with
his domestick arrangements. In this he is not accurate; for the fact was, that he one evening
attacked Mr. Burke, in so rude a manner, that all the company testified their displeasure;
and at their next meeting his reception was such, that he never came again[1406].

He is equally inaccurate with respect to Mr. Garrick, of whom he says, 'he trusted that the
least intimation of a desire to come among us, would procure him a ready admission; but in
this he was mistaken. Johnson consulted me upon it; and when I could find no objection to receiving
him, exclaimed,--"He will disturb us by his buffoonery;"--and afterwards so managed matters
that he was never formally proposed, and, by consequence, never admitted[1407].'

[Page 481: Grainger's Sugar Cane. AEtat 55.]

In justice both to Mr. Garrick and Dr. Johnson, I think it necessary to rectify this mis-statement.

Mrs. Piozzi has also given a similar misrepresentation of Johnson's treatment of Garrick in
this particular, as if he had used these contemptuous expressions: 'If Garrick does apply,
I'll black-ball him.[1408] Surely, one ought to sit in a society like ours,

'Unelbow'd by a gamester, pimp, or player[1409].'

I am happy to be enabled by such unquestionable authority as that of Sir Joshua Reynolds, as
well as from my own knowledge, to vindicate at once the heart of Johnson and the social merit
of Garrick[1410].

[Page 482: Johnson's self-accusations. A.D. 1764.]

In this year, except what he may have done in revising Shakspeare, we do not find that he laboured
much in literature. He wrote a review of Grainger's Sugar Cane, a Poem, in the London Chronicle.
He told me, that Dr. Percy wrote the greatest part of this review; but, I imagine, he did not
recollect it distinctly, for it appears to be mostly, if not altogether, his own[1411]. He
also wrote in The Critical Review, an account of Goldsmith's excellent poem, The Traveller[1412].

The ease and independence to which he had at last attained by royal munificence, increased
his natural indolence. In his Meditations he thus accuses himself:--

'Good Friday, April 20, 1764.--I have made no reformation; I have lived totally useless, more
sensual in thought, and more addicted to wine and meat[1413].'

And next morning he thus feelingly complains:--

'My indolence, since my last reception of the sacrament, has sunk into grosser sluggishness,
and my dissipation spread into wilder negligence. My thoughts have been clouded with sensuality;
and, except that from the beginning of this year I have, in some measure, forborne excess of
strong drink, my appetites have predominated over my reason. A kind of strange oblivion has
overspread me, so that I know not what has become of the last year; and perceive that incidents
and intelligence pass over me, without leaving any impression.' He then solemnly says,

'This is not the life to which heaven is promised[1414];' and he earnestly resolves an amendment.

[Page 483: A severe attack of hypochondria. It is, surely, not decent in those who are hardened
in indifference to spiritual improvement, to treat this pious anxiety of Johnson with contempt.
A strange instance of something of this nature, even when on horseback, happened when he was
in the isle of Sky[1422].

[Page 486: Illness of Joshua Reynolds.

I am fully aware how very obvious an occasion I here give for the sneering jocularity of such
as have no relish of an exact likeness; which to render complete, he who draws it must not
disdain the slightest strokes. But if witlings should be inclined to attack this account, let
them have the candour to quote what I have offered in my defence.

He was for some time in the summer at Easton Maudit, Northamptonshire, on a visit to the Reverend
Dr. Percy, now Bishop of Dromore. Whatever dissatisfaction he felt at what he considered as
a slow progress in intellectual improvement, we find that his heart was tender, and his affections
warm, as appears from the following very kind letter:

'TO JOSHUA REYNOLDS, ESQ., IN LEICESTER-FIELDS, LONDON.

'DEAR SIR,

'I did not hear of your sickness till I heard likewise of your recovery, and therefore escaped
that part of your pain, which every man must feel, to whom you are known as you are known to me.

'Having had no particular account of your disorder, I know not in what state it has left you.
If the amusement of my company can exhilarate the languor of a slow recovery, I will not delay
a day to come to you; for I know not how I can so effectually promote my own pleasure as by
pleasing you, or my own interest as by preserving you, in whom, if I should lose you, I should
lose almost the only man whom I call a friend.

'Pray let me hear of you from yourself, or from dear Miss Reynolds[1423]. Make my compliments
to Mr. Mudge. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'At the Rev. Mr. Percy's, at Easton Maudit, Northamptonshire, (by Castle Ashby,) Aug. 19, 1764.'

[Page 487: Johnson at Cambridge. AEtat 56.]

1765: AETAT. 56.--Early in the year 1765 he paid a short visit to the University of Cambridge,
with his friend Mr. Beauclerk. There is a lively picturesque account of his behaviour on this
visit, in The Gentleman's Magazine for March 1785, being an extract of a letter from the late
Dr. John Sharp. The two following sentences are very characteristical:--

'He drank his large potations of tea with me, interrupted by many an indignant contradiction,
and many a noble sentiment,'--'Several persons got into his company the last evening at Trinity,
where, about twelve, he began to be very great; stripped poor Mrs. Macaulay to the very skin,
then gave her for his toast, and drank her in two bumpers[1424].'

The strictness of his self-examination and scrupulous Christian humility appear in his pious
meditation on Easter-day this year.

'I purpose again to partake of the blessed sacrament; yet when I consider how vainly I have
hitherto resolved at this annual commemoration of my Saviour's death, to regulate my life by
his laws, I am almost afraid to renew my resolutions.'

The concluding words are very remarkable, and shew that he laboured under a severe depression
of spirits.

'Since the last Easter I have reformed no evil habit, my time has been unprofitably spent,
and seems as a dream that has left nothing behind. My memory grows confused, and I know not
how the days pass over me. Good Lord deliver me[1425]!'

[Page 488: Trinity College, Dublin. A.D. 1765.]

No man was more gratefully sensible of any kindness done to him than Johnson. There is a little
circumstance in his diary this year, which shews him in a very amiable light.

'July 2.--I paid Mr. Simpson ten guineas, which he had formerly lent me in my necessity and
for which Tetty expressed her gratitude.'

'July 8.--I lent Mr. Simpson ten guineas more[1426].'

Here he had a pleasing opportunity of doing the same kindness to an old friend, which he had
formerly received from him. Indeed his liberality as to money was very remarkable. The next
article in his diary is,

'July 16.--I received seventy-five pounds[1427]. The diploma, which is in my possession, is
as follows:

[Page 489: Johnson created Doctor of Laws. AEtat 56.]

'OMNIBUS ad quos praesentes literae pervenerint, salutem. Nos Praepositus et Socii seniores
Collegii sacrosanctae et individuae Trinitatis Reginae Elizabethae juxta Dublin, testamur,
Samueli Johnson, Armigero[1429], ob egregiam scriptorum elegantiam et utilitatem, gratiam concessam
fuisse pro gradu Doctoratus in utroque Jure, octavo die Julii, Anno Domini millesimo septingentesimo
sexagesimo-quinto.

            'GUL. CLEMENT.   FRAN. ANDREWS.   R. MURRAY.
            'THO. WILSON.         Praeps.      ROBtus LAW.
            'THO. LELAND.                     MICH. KEARNEY.'

This unsolicited mark of distinction, conferred on so great a literary character, did much
honour to the judgement and liberal spirit of that learned body. Johnson acknowledged the favour
in a letter to Dr. Leland, one of their number; but I have not been able to obtain a copy of
it. A.D. 1765.]

His prayer in the view of becoming a politician is entitled, 'Engaging in POLITICKS with H----n,'
no doubt his friend, the Right Honourable William Gerard Hamilton[1432], for whom, during a
long acquaintance, he had a great esteem, and to whose conversation he once paid this high
compliment: 'I am very unwilling to be left alone, Sir, and therefore I go with my company
down the first pair of stairs, in some hopes that they may, perhaps, return again. I go with
you, Sir, as far as the street-door.' In what particular department he intended to engage does
not appear, nor can Mr. Hamilton explain[1433]. His prayer is in general terms:--

'Enlighten my understanding with knowledge of right, and govern my will by thy laws, that no
deceit may mislead me, nor temptation corrupt me; that I may always endeavour to do good, and
hinder evil[1434].'

There is nothing upon the subject in his diary.

[Page 491: Old Thrale.

[Page 492: A new system of gentility. A.D. 1765.]

There may be some who think that a new system of gentility[1438] might be established, upon
principles totally different from what have hitherto prevailed. Our present heraldry, it may
be said, is suited to the barbarous times in which it had its origin. It is chiefly founded
upon ferocious merit, upon military excellence. Why, in civilised times, we may be asked, should
there not be rank and honours, upon principles, which, independent of long custom, are certainly
not less worthy, and which, when once allowed to be connected with elevation and precedency,
would obtain the same dignity in our imagination? Why should not the knowledge, the skill,
the expertness, the assiduity, and the spirited hazards of trade and commerce, when crowned
with success, be entitled to give those flattering distinctions by which mankind are so universally
captivated?

Such are the specious, but false arguments for a proposition which always will find numerous
advocates, in a nation where men are every day starting up from obscurity to wealth. To refute
them is needless. The general sense of mankind cries out, with irresistible force, 'Un gentilhomme
est toujours gentilhomme'[1439].

[Page 493: A new home for Johnson.

[Page 494: Mr. Thrale.

[Page 495: Mrs. Thrale.

[Page 496: Johnson's SHAKSPEARE published. A.D. 1765.]

Nothing could be more fortunate for Johnson than this connection[1449].

[Page 497: Dr. Kenrick. A blind indiscriminate admiration of Shakspeare had exposed the British
nation to the ridicule of foreigners[1455]. Johnson, by candidly admitting the faults of his
poet, had the more credit in bestowing on him deserved and indisputable praise; and doubtless
none of all his panegyrists have done him half so much honour. Their praise was, like that
of a counsel, upon his own side of the cause: Johnson's was like the grave, well-considered,
and impartial opinion of the judge, which falls from his lips with weight, and is received
with reverence. What he did as a commentator has no small share of merit, though his researches
were not so ample, and his investigations so acute as they might have been, which we now certainly
know from the labours of other able and ingenious criticks who have followed him[1456]. He
has enriched his edition with a concise account of each play, and of its characteristick excellence.
Many of his notes have illustrated obscurities in the text, and placed passages eminent for
beauty in a more conspicuous light; and he has in general exhibited such a mode of annotation,
as may be beneficial to all subsequent editors[1457].

[Page 498: Johnson's attack on Voltaire. A.D. 1785.]

His Shakespeare was virulently attacked by Mr. William Kenrick, who obtained the degree of
LL.D. from a Scotch University, and wrote for the booksellers in a great variety of branches.
Though he certainly was not without considerable merit, he wrote with so little regard to decency
and principles, and decorum[1458], and in so hasty a manner, that his reputation was neither
extensive nor lasting. I remember one evening, when some of his works were mentioned, Dr. Goldsmith
said, he had never heard of them; upon which Dr. Johnson observed, 'Sir, he is one of the many
who have made themselves publick, without making themselves known[1459].'

A young student of Oxford, of the name of Barclay, wrote an answer to Kenrick's review of Johnson's
Shakspeare. Johnson was at first angry that Kenrick's attack should have the credit of an answer.
But afterwards, considering the young man's good intention, he kindly noticed him, and probably
would have done more, had not the young man died[1460].

[Page 499: Voltaire's reply. AEtat 56.]

In his Preface to Shakspeare, Johnson treated Voltaire very contemptuously, observing, upon
some of his remarks, 'These are the petty criticisms of petty wits[1461].' Voltaire, in revenge,
made an attack upon Johnson, in one of his numerous literary sallies, which I remember to have
read; but there being no general index to his voluminous works, have searched in vain, and
therefore cannot quote it[1462].

Voltaire was an antagonist with whom I thought Johnson should not disdain to contend. I pressed
him to answer. He said, he perhaps might; but he never did.

Mr. Burney having occasion to write to Johnson for some receipts for subscriptions to his Shakspeare,
which Johnson had omitted to deliver when the money was paid[1463], he availed himself of that
opportunity of thanking Johnson for the great pleasure which he had received from the perusal
of his Preface to Shakspeare; which, although it excited much clamour against him at first,
is now justly ranked among the most excellent of his writings. To this letter Johnson returned
the following answer:--

[Page 500: Resolutions at church.]

'To CHARLES BURNEY ESQ. IN POLAND-STREET.

'SIR,

'I am sorry that your kindness to me has brought upon you so much trouble, though you have
taken care to abate that sorrow, by the pleasure which I receive from your approbation. I defend
my criticism in the same manner with you. We must confess the faults of our favourite, to gain
credit to our praise of his excellencies. He that claims, either in himself or for another,
the honours of perfection, will surely injure the reputation which he designs to assist.

'Be pleased to make my compliments to your family.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most obliged

'And most humble servant,

'Sam. Johnson.'

'Oct. 16, 1765.[1464]'

From one of his journals I transcribed what follows:

'At church, Oct. --65.

'To avoid all singularity; Bonaventura[1465].

'To come in before service, and compose my mind by meditation, or by reading some portions
of scriptures. Tetty.

'If I can hear the sermon, to attend it, unless attention be more troublesome than useful.

'To consider the act of prayer as a reposal of myself upon God, and a resignation of 'all into
his holy hand.'

APPENDIX A

JOHNSON'S DEBATES IN PARLIAMENT.

(Pages 118 and 150.)

The publication of the 'Debates' in the Gentleman's Magazine began in July 1732. The names
of the speakers were not printed in full; Sir Robert Walpole was disguised--if a disguise it
can be called--as Sir R----t W----le, and Mr. Pelham as Mr. P--lh--m. Otherwise the report
was open and avowed. During the first few years, however, it often happened that no attempt
was made to preserve the individuality of the members. Thus in a debate on the number of seamen
(Gent. Mag. v. 507), the speeches of the 'eight chief speakers' were so combined as to form
but three. First come 'the arguments made use of for 30,000 men;' next, 'an answer to the following
effect;' and lastly, 'a reply that was in substance as follows.' Each of these three speeches
is in the first person, though each is formed of the arguments of two members at least, perhaps
of many. In the report of a two days' debate in 1737, in which there were fourteen chief speakers,
the substance of thirteen of the speeches was given in three (ib. vii. 746, 775). In July 1736
(ib. vi. 363) we find the beginning of a great change. 'To satisfy the impatience of his readers,'
the publisher promises 'to give them occasionally some entire speeches.' He prints one which
likely enough had been sent to him by the member who had spoken it, and adds that he shall
be 'grateful for any authentic intelligence in matters of such importance and tenderness as
the speeches in Parliament' (ib. p. 365). Cave, in his examination before the House of Lords
on April 30, 1747, on a charge of having printed in the Gentleman's Magazine an account of
the trial of Lord Lovat, owned that 'he had had speeches sent him by the members themselves,
and had had assistance from some members who have taken notes of other members' speeches' (Parl.
Hist. xiv. 60).

It was chiefly in the numbers of the Magazine for the latter half of each year that the publication
took place. The parliamentary recess was the busy time for reporters and printers. It was commonly
believed that the resolution on the Journals of the House of Commons against publishing any
of its proceedings was only in force while parliament was sitting. But on April 13, 1738, it
was unanimously resolved 'that it is an high indignity to, and a notorious breach of the privilege
of this House to give any account of the debates, as well during the recess as the sitting
of parliament' (Parl. Hist. x. 812). It was admitted that this privilege expired at the end
of every parliament. When the dissolution had come every one might publish what he pleased.
With the House of Lords it was far otherwise, for 'it is a Court of Record, and as such its
rights and privileges never die. It may punish a printer for printing any part of its proceedings
for thirty or forty years back' (ib. p. 807). Mr. Winnington, when speaking to this resolution
of April 13, said that if they did not put a speedy stop to this practice of reporting 'they
will have every word that is spoken here by gentlemen misrepresented by fellows who thrust
themselves into our gallery' (ib. p. 806). Walpole complained 'that he had been made to speak
the very reverse of what he meant. He had read debates wherein all the wit, the learning, and
the argument had been thrown into one side, and on the other nothing but what was low, mean,
and ridiculous' (ib. p. 809). Later on, Johnson in his reports 'saved appearances tolerably
well; but took care that the WHIG DOGS should not have the best of it' (Murphy's Johnson, p. 45).

It was but a few days after he became a contributor to the Magazine that this resolution was
passed. Parliament rose on May 20, and in the June number the reports of the debates of the
Senate of Lilliput began. To his fertile mind was very likely due this humorous expedient by
which the resolution of the House was mocked. That he wrote the introduction in which is narrated
the voyage of Captain Gulliver's grandson to Lilliputia can scarcely be doubted. It bears all
the marks of his early style. The Lords become Hurgoes, and the Commons Clinabs, Walpole becomes
Walelop, Pulteney Pulnub, and Pitt Ptit; otherwise the report is much as it had been. At the
end of the volume for 1739 was given a key to all the names. The London Magazine had boldly
taken the lead. In the May number, which was published at the close of the month, and therefore
after parliament had risen, began the report of the proceedings and debates of a political
and learned club of young noblemen and gentlemen, who hoped one day to enter parliament, and
who therefore, the better to qualify themselves for their high position, only debated questions
that were there discussed. To the speakers were given the names of the ancient Greeks and Romans.
Thus we find the Hon. Marcus Cato and the Right Hon. M. Tullius Cicero. By the key that was
published in 1742 Cicero was seen to be Walpole, and Cato, Pulteney. What risks the publishers
and writers ran was very soon shown. In December 1740 the ministers proposed to lay an embargo
on various articles of food. As the members entered the House a printed paper was handed to
each, entitled Considerations upon the Embargo. Adam Smith had just gone up as a young student
to the University of Oxford. There are 'considerations' suggested in this paper which the great
authority of the author of the Wealth of Nations has not yet made pass current as truths. The
paper contained, moreover, charges of jobbery against 'great men,' though no one was named.
It was at once voted a malicious and scandalous libel, and the author, William Cooley, a scrivener,
was committed to Newgate. With him was sent the printer of the Daily Post, in which part of
the Considerations had been published. After seven weeks' imprisonment in the depth of winter
in that miserable den, 'without sufficient sustenance to support life,' Cooley was discharged
on paying his fees. He was in knowledge more than a hundred years before his time, and had
been made to suffer accordingly. The printer would have been discharged also, but the fees
were more than he could pay. Two months later he petitioned for mercy. The fees by that time
were L121. His petition was not received, and he was kept in prison till the close of the session
(Parl. Hist. xi. 867-894).

Such were the risks run by Cave and Johnson and their fellow-workers. That no prosecution followed
was due perhaps to that dread of ridicule which has often tempered the severity of the law.
'The Hurgolen Branard, who in the former session was Pretor of Mildendo,' might well have been
unwilling to prove that he was Sir John Barnard, late Lord Mayor of London.

Johnson, it should seem, revised some of the earliest Debates. In a letter to Cave which cannot
have been written later than September 1738, he mentions the alterations that he had made (ante,
p. 136). The more they were written by him, the less authentic did they become, for he was
not one of those 'fellows who thrust themselves into the gallery of the House.' His employer,
Cave, if we can trust his own evidence, had been in the habit of going there and taking notes
with a pencil (Parl. Hist. xiv. 60). But Johnson, Hawkins says (Life, p. 122), 'never was within
the walls of either House.' According to Murphy (Life, p. 44), he had been inside the House
of Commons once. Be this as it may, in the end the Debates were composed by him alone (ante,
p. 118). From that time they must no longer be looked upon as authentic records, in spite of
the assertions of the Editor of the Parl. Hist. (xi. Preface). According to Hawkins (Life,
p. 99), 'His practice was to shut himself up in a room assigned to him at St. John's Gate,
to which he would not suffer any one to approach, except the compositor or Cave's boy for matter,
which, as fast as he composed it, he tumbled out at the door.'

From Murphy we get the following curious story:--

'That Johnson was the author of the debates during that period [Nov, 1740 to Feb. 1743] was
not generally known; but the secret transpired several years afterwards, and was avowed by
himself on the following occasion:--Mr. Wedderburne (now Lord Loughborough), Dr. Johnson, Dr.
Francis (the translator of Horace), the present writer, and others dined with the late Mr.
Foote. An important debate towards the end of Sir Robert Walpole's administration being mentioned,
Dr. Francis observed, "that Mr. Pitt's speech on that occasion was the best he had ever read."
He added, "that he had employed eight years of his life in the study of Demosthenes, and finished
a translation of that celebrated orator, with all the decorations of style and language within
the reach of his capacity; but he had met with nothing equal to the speech above mentioned."
Many of the company remembered the debate; and some passages were cited with the approbation
and applause of all present. During the ardour of conversation, Johnson remained silent. As
soon as the warmth of praise subsided, he opened with these words:--"That speech I wrote in
a garret in Exeter Street." The company was struck with astonishment. After staring at each
other in silent amaze, Dr. Francis asked how that speech could be written by him? "Sir," said
Johnson, "I wrote it in Exeter Street. I never had been in the gallery of the House of Commons
but once. Cave had interest with the door-keepers. He, and the persons employed under him,
gained admittance: they brought away the subject of discussion, the names of the speakers,
the side they took, and the order in which they rose, together with notes of the arguments
advanced in the course of the debate. The whole was afterwards communicated to me, and I composed
the speeches in the form which they now have in the Parliamentary Debates." To this discovery
Dr. Francis made answer:--"Then, sir, you have exceeded Demosthenes himself, for to say that
you have exceeded Francis's Demosthenes, would be saying nothing." The rest of the company
bestowed lavish encomiums on Johnson: one, in particular, praised his impartiality; observing,
that he dealt out reason and eloquence with an equal hand to both parties. "That is not quite
true," said Johnson; "I saved appearances tolerably well, but I took care that the WHIG DOGS
should not have the best of it."' Murphy's Life of Johnson, p. 343.

Murphy, we must not forget, wrote from memory, for there is no reason to think that he kept
notes. That his memory cannot altogether be trusted has been shown by Boswell (ante, p. 391,
note 4). This dinner with Foote must have taken place at least nineteen years before this account
was published, for so many years had Dr. Francis been dead. At the time when Johnson was living
in Exeter-street he was not engaged on the magazine. Nevertheless the main facts may be true
enough. Johnson himself told Boswell (post, May 13, 1778) that in Lord Chesterfield's Miscellaneous
Works (ii. 319) there were two speeches ascribed to Chesterfield which he had himself entirely
written. Horace Walpole (Letters, i. 147) complained that the published report of his own first
speech 'did not contain one sentence of the true one.' Johnson, in his preface to the Literary
Magazine of 1756, seems to confess what he had done, unless, indeed, he was altogether making
himself the mere mouth-piece of the publisher. He says:--'We shall not attempt to give any
regular series of debates, or to amuse our readers with senatorial rhetorick. The speeches
inserted in other papers have been long known to be fictitious, and produced sometimes by men
who never heard the debate, nor had any authentick information. We have no design to impose
thus grossly on our readers.' (Works, v. 363.)

The secret that Johnson wrote these Debates was indeed well kept. He seems to be aimed at in
a question that was put to Cave in his examination before the House of Lords in 1747. 'Being
asked "if he ever had any person whom he kept in pay to make speeches for him," he said, "he
never had."' (Parl. Hist. xiv. 60.) Herein he lied in order, no doubt, to screen Johnson. Forty-four
years later Horace Walpole wrote (Letters, ix. 319), 'I never knew Johnson wrote the speeches
in the Gentleman's Magazine till he died.' Johnson told Boswell 'that as soon as he found that
they were thought genuine he determined that he would write no more of them, "for he would
not be accessory to the propagation of falsehood."' (Ante, p. 152.) One of his Debates was
translated into French, German, and Spanish (Gent. Mag. xiii. 59), and, no doubt, was accepted
abroad as authentic. When he learnt this his conscience might well have received a shock. That
it did receive a shock seems almost capable of proof. It was in the number of the Magazine
for February, 1743--at the beginning of March, that is to say--that the fact of these foreign
translations was made known. The last Debate that Johnson wrote was for the 22nd day of February
in that year. In 1740, 1741, and 1742, he had worked steadily at his Debates. The beginning
of 1743 found him no less busy. His task suddenly came to an end. Among foreign nations his
speeches were read as the very words of English statesmen. To the propagation of such a falsehood
as this he would no longer be accessory. Fifteen years later Smollett quoted them as if they
were genuine (History of England, iii. 73). Here, however, Johnson's conscience was void of
offence; for 'he had cautioned him not to rely on them, for that they were not authentic.'
(Hawkins, Life, p. 129.)

That they should generally have passed current shews how unacquainted people at that time were
with real debating. Even if we had not Johnson's own statement, both from external and internal
evidence we could have known that they were for the most part 'the mere coinage of his imagination.'
They do not read like speeches that had ever been spoken. 'None of them,' Mr. Flood said, 'were
at all like real debates' (post, under March 30, 1771). They are commonly formed of general
statements which suit any one speaker just as well as any other. The scantier were the notes
that were given him by those who had heard the debate, the more he had to draw on his imagination.
But his was an imagination which supplied him with what was general much more readily than
with what was particular. Had De Foe been the composer he would have scattered over each speech
the most ingenious and probable matters of detail, but De Foe and Johnson were wide as the
poles asunder. Neither had Johnson any dramatic power. His parliamentary speakers have scarcely
more variety than the characters in Irene. Unless he had been a constant frequenter of the
galleries of the two Houses, he could not have acquired any knowledge of the style and the
peculiarities of the different members. Nay, even of their modes of thinking and their sentiments
he could have gained but the most general notions. Of debating he knew nothing. It was the
set speeches in Livy and the old historians that he took as his models. In his orations there
is very little of 'the tart reply;' there is, indeed, scarcely any examination of an adversary's
arguments. So general are the speeches that the order in which they are given might very often
without inconvenience be changed. They are like a series of leading articles on both sides
of the question, but all written by one man. Johnson is constantly shifting his character,
and, like Falstaff and the Prince, playing first his own part and then his opponent's. It is
wonderful how well he preserves his impartiality, though he does 'take care that the Whig dogs
should not have the best of it.'

He not only took the greatest liberties in his reports, but he often took them openly. Thus
an army bill was debated in committee on Dec. 10, 1740, and again the following day on the
report in the full House. 'As in these two debates,' he writes, 'the arguments were the same,
Mr. Gulliver has thrown them into one to prevent unnecessary repetitions.' (Gent. Mag. Dec.
1742, p. 676.) In each House during the winter of 1742-3 there was a debate on taking the Hanoverian
troops into pay. The debate in the Lords was spread over five numbers of the Magazine in the
following summer and autumn. It was not till the spring of 1744 that the turn of the Commons
came, and then they were treated somewhat scurvily. 'This debate,' says the reporter, who was
Johnson, 'we thought it necessary to contract by the omission of those arguments which were
fully discussed in the House of Hurgoes, and of those speakers who produced them, lest we should
disgust our readers by tedious repetitions.' (Ib. xiv. 125.) Many of these debates have been
reported somewhat briefly by Bishop (afterwards Archbishop) Seeker. To follow his account requires
an accurate knowledge of the times, whereas Johnson's rhetorick for the most part is easily
understood even by one very ignorant of the history of the first two Georges. Much of it might
have been spoken on almost any occasion, for or against almost any minister. It is true that
we here and there find such a correspondence between the two reports as shews that Johnson,
as he has himself told us, was at times furnished with some information. But, on the other
hand, we can no less clearly see that he was often drawing solely on his imagination. Frequently
there is but the slightest agreement between the reports given by the two men of the same speeches.
Of this a good instance is afforded by Lord Carteret's speech of Feb. 13, 1741. According to
Johnson 'the Hurgo Quadrert began in this manner':--

'As the motion which I am about to make is of the highest importance and of the most extensive
consequences; as it cannot but meet with all the opposition which the prejudices of some and
the interest of others can raise against it; as it must have the whole force of ministerial
influence to encounter without any assistance but from justice and reason, I hope to be excused
by your Lordships for spending some time in endeavouring to shew that it wants no other support;
that it is not founded upon doubtful suspicions but upon uncontestable facts,' and so on for
eight more lines. (Gent. Mag. xi. 339).

The Bishop's note begins as follows:--

'CARTERET. I am glad to see the House so full. The honour of the nation is at stake. And the
oldest man hath not known such circumstances as we are in. When storms rise you must see what
pilots you have, and take methods to make the nation easy. I shall (1) go through the foreign
transactions of several years; (2) The domestic; (3) Prove that what I am about to propose
is a parliamentary method.' (Parl. Hist. xi. 1047.)

Still more striking is the difference in the two reports of a speech by Lord Talbot on May
25, 1742. According to the Gent. Mag. xii. 519, 'the Hurgo Toblat spoke to this effect':--

'So high is my veneration for this great assembly that it is never without the utmost efforts
of resolution that I can prevail upon myself to give my sentiments upon any question that is
the subject of debate, however strong may be my conviction, or however ardent my zeal.'

The Bishop makes him say:--

'I rise up only to give time to others to consider how they will carry on the debate.' (Parl.
Hist. xii. 646.)

On Feb. 13, 1741, the same Lord, being called to order for saying that there were Lords who
were influenced by a place, exclaimed, according to the Bishop, '"By the eternal G--d, I will
defend my cause everywhere." But Lords calling to order, he recollected himself and made an
excuse.' (Parl. Hist. xi. 1063). In the Gent. Mag. xi. 4l9, 'the Hurgo Toblat resumed:--"My
Lords, whether anything has escaped from me that deserves such severe animadversions your Lordships
must decide."'

Once at least in Johnson's reports a speech is given to the wrong member. In the debate on
the Gin Bill on Feb. 22, 1743 (Gent. Mag. xiii. 696), though the Bishop's notes show that he
did not speak, yet a long speech is put into his mouth. It was the Earl of Sandwich who had
spoken at this turn of the debate. The editor of the Parl. Hist. (xii. 1398), without even
notifying the change, coolly transfers the speech from the 'decent' Seeker[1466], who was afterwards
Primate, to the grossly licentious Earl. A transference such as this is, however, but of little
moment. For the most part the speeches would be scarcely less lifelike, if all on one side
were assigned to some nameless Whig, and all on the other side to some nameless Tory. It is
nevertheless true that here and there are to be found passages which no doubt really fell from
the speaker in whose mouth they are put. They mention some fact or contain some allusion which
could not otherwise have been known by Johnson. Even if we had not Cave's word for it, we might
have inferred that now and then a member was himself his own reporter. Thus in the Gent. Mag.
for February 1744 (p. 68) we find a speech by Sir John St. Aubyn that had appeared eight months
earlier in the very same words in the London Magazine. That Johnson copied a rival publication
is most unlikely--impossible, I might say. St. Aubyn, I conjecture, sent a copy of his speech
to both editors. In the Gent. Mag. for April 1743 (p. 184), a speech by Lord Percival on Dec.
10, 1742, is reported apparently at full length. The debate itself was not published till the
spring of 1744, when the reader is referred for this speech to the back number in which it
had already been inserted. (Ib. xiv. 123).

The London Magazine generally gave the earlier report; it was, however, twitted by its rival
with its inaccuracy. In one debate, it was said, 'it had introduced instead of twenty speakers
but six, and those in a very confused manner. It had attributed to Caecilius words remembered
by the whole audience to be spoken by M. Agrippa.' (Gent. Mag. xii. 512). The report of the
debate of Feb. 13, 1741, in the London Magazine fills more than twenty-two columns of the Parl.
Hist. (xi. 1130) with a speech by Lord Bathurst. That he did speak is shewn by Secker (ib.
p. 1062). No mention of him is made, however, in the report in the Gent. Mag. (xi. 339). But,
on the other hand, it reports eleven speakers, while the London Magazine gives but five. Secker
shows that there were nineteen. Though the London Magazine was generally earlier in publishing
the debates, it does not therefore follow that Johnson had seen their reports when he wrote
his. His may have been kept back by Cave's timidity for some months even after they had been
set up in type. In the staleness of the debate there was some safeguard against a parliamentary
prosecution.

Mr. Croker maintains (Croker's Boswell, p. 44) that Johnson wrote the Debates from the time
(June 1738) that they assumed the Lilliputian title till 1744. In this he is certainly wrong.
Even if we had not Johnson's own statement, from the style of the earlier Debates we could
have seen that they were not written by him. No doubt we come across numerous traces of his
work; but this we should have expected. Boswell tells us that Guthrie's reports were sent to
Johnson for revision (ante, p. 118). Nay, even a whole speech now and then may be from his
hand. It is very likely that he wrote, for instance, the Debate on buttons and button-holes
(Gent. Mag. viii. 627), and the Debate on the registration of seamen (ib. xi.). But it is absurd
to attribute to him passages such as the following, which in certain numbers are plentiful
enough long after June 1738. 'There never was any measure pursued more consistent with, and
more consequential of, the sense of this House' (ib. ix. 340). 'It gave us a handle of making
such reprisals upon the Iberians as this Crown found the sweets of' (ib. x. 281). 'That was
the only expression that the least shadow of fault was found with' (ib. xi. 292).

'Johnson told me himself,' says Boswell (ante, p. 150), 'that he was the sole composer of the
Debates for those three years only (1741-2-3). The speeches that were spoken between Nov. 19,
or, more strictly speaking, Nov. 25, 1740, and Feb. 22, 1743, were in their publication spread
through the Magazine from July 1741 to March, 1744. On Feb. 13, 1741, Lord Carteret in the
House of 'Lords, and Mr. Sandys, 'the Motion-maker[1467],' in the House of Commons, moved an
address to the King for the removal of Sir Robert Walpole. Johnson's report of the debate in
the Lords was published in the Magazine for the next July and August. The year went round.
Walpole's ministry was overthrown, and Walpole himself was banished to the House of Lords.
A second year went by. At length, in three of the spring numbers of 1743, the debate on Sandys's
motion was reported. It had been published in the London Magazine eleven months earlier.

Cave, if he was tardy, nevertheless was careful that his columns should not want variety. Thus
in the number for July 1743, we have the middle part of the debate in the Lords on Feb. 1,
1743, the end of the debate in the Commons on March 9, 1742, and the beginning of another in
the Commons on the following March 23. From the number for July 1741 to the number for March
1744 Johnson, as I have already said, was the sole composer of the Debates. The irregularity
with which they were given at first sight seems strange; but in it a certain method can be
discovered. The proceedings of a House of Commons that had come to an end might, as I have
shown, be freely published. There had been a dissolution after the session which closed in
April 1741. The publication of the Debates of the old parliament could at once begin, and could
go on freely from month to month all the year round. But they would not last for ever. In 1742,
in the autumn recess, the time when experience had shewn that the resolution of the House could
be broken with the least danger, the Debates of the new parliament were published. They were
continued even in the short session before Christmas. But the spring of 1743 saw a cautious
return to the reports of the old parliament. The session closed on April 21, and in the May
number the comparatively fresh Debates began again. In one case the report was not six months
after date. In the beginning of 1744 this publication went on even in the session, but it was
confined to the proceedings of the previous winter.

The following table shews the order in which Johnson's Debates were published:--

Gentleman's                               Debate or part Magazine.                        
of debate of

July, 1741     {Parliament was dissolved } Feb. 13, 1741
               { on April 25, 1741.      }
Aug.   "                                   Feb. 13,  "

Sept.  "                                  {Jan. 27,  "
                                          {Mar.  2,  "
Oct.   "                                   Mar.  2,  "

Nov.   "                                   Mar.  2,  "

Dec.   "      { The new Parliament met}    Dec.  9, 1740
              {       on Dec. 1.      }

Gentleman's                             Debate or part Magazine.                          
of debate of

Supplement to 1741                         Dec. 2, "
                                           Dec. 12,"
Jan. 1742                                  Feb. 3, 1741
                                           Feb. 27, "
Feb. "                                     Jan. 26, "
                                           April 13, "
Mar. "                                     Feb. 24, "
                                           April 13, "
April "                                    Jan. 27, "
                                           Feb. 24, "
May "                                      Nov. 25, 1740
June "                                     Nov. 25, "
                                           April 8, 1741
July "         The session ended on July   April 8, "
                15.                        Dec. 1, "
                                           Dec. 4, "
Aug. "                                     Dec. 4, "
Sept. "                                    Dec. 4, "
                                           Dec. 8, "
Oct. "                                     Dec. 8, "
                                           May 25, 1742
Nov. "         The Session opened on       May 25, "
               Nov. 16.
Dec. "                                     May 25, "
                                           June 1, "
Supplement to 1742                         Dec. 10, 1740
                                           June 1, 1742
Jan. 1743                                  Dec. 10, 1740
Feb. "                                     Feb. 13, 1741
Mar. "                                     Feb. 13, "
April "     The Session ended on April 21  Feb. 13, "
May "                                      Mar. 9, 1742
                                           Nov. 16, "
June "                                     Mar. 9, "
                                           Feb. 1, 1743
July "                                     Mar. 9, 1742
                                           Mar. 23, "
                                           Feb. 1, 1743
Aug. "                                     Feb. 1, "
Sept. "                                    Feb. 1, "
Oct. "                                     Feb. 1, "
Nov. "                                     Feb. 22, "
Dec. "     The Session opened on Dec. 1    Feb. 22, "
Supplement to 1743                         Feb. 22, "
Jan. 1744                                  Feb. 22, "
Feb. "                                     Dec. 10, 1742
                                           Feb. 22, 1743
Mar. "                                     Dec. 10, 1742

During the rest of 1744 the debates were given in the old form, and in a style that is a close
imitation of Johnson's. Most likely they were composed by Hawkesworth (ante, p. 252). In 1745
they were fewer in number, and in 1746 the reports of the Senate of Lilliputia with its Hurgoes
and Clinabs passed away for ever. They had begun, to quote the words of the Preface to the
Magazine for 1747, at a time when 'a determined spirit of opposition in the national assemblies
communicated itself to almost every individual, multiplied and invigorated periodical papers,
and rendered politics the chief, if not the only object, of curiosity.' They are a monument
to the greatness of Walpole, and to the genius of Johnson. Had that statesman not been overthrown,
the people would have called for these reports even though Johnson had refused to write them.
Had Johnson still remained the reporter, even though Walpole no longer swayed the Senate of
the Lilliputians, the speeches of that tumultuous body would still have been read. For though
they are not debates, yet they have a vast vigour and a great fund of wisdom of their own.

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX B.

JOHNSON'S LETTERS TO HIS MOTHER AND MISS PORTER IN 1759. (Page 340.)

Malone published seven of the following letters in the fourth edition, and Mr. Croker the rest.

'TO MRS. JOHNSON IN LICHFIELD.

'HONOURED MADAM,

'The account which Miss [Porter] gives me of your health pierces my heart. God comfort and
preserve you and save you, for the sake of Jesus Christ.

'I would have Miss read to you from time to time the Passion of our Saviour, and sometimes
the sentences in the Communion Service, beginning "Come unto me, all ye that travail and are
heavy laden, and I will give you rest."

'I have just now read a physical book, which inclines me to think that a strong infusion of
the bark would do you good. Do, dear mother, try it.

'Pray, send me your blessing, and forgive all that I have done amiss to you. And whatever you
would have done, and what debts you would have paid first, or any thing else that you would
direct, let Miss put it down; I shall endeavour to obey you.

'I have got twelve guineas[1468] to send you, but unhappily am at a loss how to send it to-night.
If I cannot send it to-night, it will come by the next post.

'Pray, do not omit any thing mentioned in this letter: God bless you for ever and ever.

'I am your dutiful son,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 13, 1758[1469].'

'To Miss PORTER, AT MRS. JOHNSON'S, IN LICHFIELD.

'MY DEAR Miss,

'I think myself obliged to you beyond all expression of gratitude for your care of my dear
mother. God grant it may not be without success. Tell Kitty[1470] that I shall never forget
her tenderness for her mistress. Whatever you can do, continue to do. My heart is very full.

'I hope you received twelve guineas on Monday. I found a way of sending them by means of the
postmaster, after I had written my letter, and hope they came safe. I will send you more in
a few days. God bless you all.

'I am, my dear,

'Your most obliged

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 16, 1759. 'Over the leaf is a letter to my mother.'

'DEAR HONOURED MOTHER,

'Your weakness afflicts me beyond what I am willing to communicate to you. I do not think you
unfit to face death, but I know not how to bear the thought of losing you. Endeavour to do
all you [can] for yourself. Eat as much as you can.

'I pray often for you; do you pray for me. I have nothing to add to my last letter.

'I am, dear, dear mother

'Your dutiful son,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 16, 1759.'

'To MRS. JOHNSON, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR HONOURED MOTHER,

'I fear you are too ill for long letters; therefore I will only tell you, you have from me
all the regard that can possibly subsist in the heart. I pray God to bless you for evermore,
for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.

'Let Miss write to me every post, however short.

'I am, dear mother,

'Your dutiful son,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 18, 1759.'

'TO MISS PORTER, AT MRS. JOHNSON'S, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR Miss,

'I will, if it be possible, come down to you. God grant I may yet [find] my dear mother breathing
and sensible. Do not tell her, lest I disappoint her. If I miss to write next post, I am on
the road.

                             'I am, my dearest Miss,
                                       'Your most humble servant,
                                                      'SAM. JOHNSON.'
'Jan. 20, 1759.'

On the other side.

'DEAR HONOURED MOTHER[1471],

'Neither your condition nor your character make it fit for me to say much. You have been the
best mother, and I believe the best woman in the world. I thank you for your indulgence to
me, and beg forgiveness of all that I have done ill, and all that I have omitted to do well.
God grant you his Holy Spirit, and receive you to everlasting happiness, for Jesus Christ's
sake. Amen. Lord Jesus receive your spirit. Amen.

'You will conceive my sorrow for the loss of my mother, of the best mother. If she were to
live again surely I should behave better to her. But she is happy, and what is past is nothing
to her; and for me, since I cannot repair my faults to her, I hope repentance will efface them.
I return you and all those that have been good to her my sincerest thanks, and pray God to
repay you all with infinite advantage. Write to me, and comfort me, dear child. I shall be
glad likewise, if Kitty will write to me. I shall send a bill of twenty pounds in a few days,
which I thought to have brought to my mother; but God suffered it not. I have not power or
composure to say much more. God bless you, and bless us all.

                         'I am, dear Miss,
                                 'Your affectionate humble servant,
                                                         'SAM. JOHNSON.'
'Jan. 23, 1759[1472].'

'To Miss PORTER.

(The beginning is torn and lost.)

       *       *       *       *       *

'You will forgive me if I am not yet so composed as to give any directions about any thing.
But you are wiser and better than I, and I shall be pleased with all that you shall do. It
is not of any use for me now to come down; nor can I bear the place. If you want any directions,
Mr. Howard[1473] will advise you. The twenty pounds I could not get a bill for to-night, but
will send it on Saturday.

'I am, my dear, your affectionate servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Jan. 25, 1759.'

       *       *       *       *       *

'To Miss PORTER.

'DEAR Miss,

'I have no reason to forbear writing, but that it makes my heart heavy, and I had nothing particular
to say which might not be delayed to the next post; but had no thoughts of ceasing to correspond
with my dear Lucy, the only person now left in the world with whom I think myself connected.
There needed not my dear mother's desire, for every heart must lean to somebody, and I have
nobody but you; in whom I put all my little affairs with too much confidence to desire you
to keep receipts, as you prudently proposed.

'If you and Kitty will keep the house, I think I shall like it best. Kitty may carry on the
trade for herself, keeping her own stock apart, and laying aside any money that she receives
for any of the goods which her good mistress has left behind her. I do not see, if this scheme
be followed, any need of appraising the books. My mother's debts, dear mother, I suppose I
may pay with little difficulty; and the little trade may go silently forward. I fancy Kitty
can do nothing better; and I shall not want to put her out of a house, where she has lived
so long, and with so much virtue. I am very sorry that she is ill, and earnestly hope that
she will soon recover; let her know that I have the highest value for her, and would do any
thing for her advantage. Let her think of this proposal. I do not see any likelier method by
which she may pass the remaining part of her life in quietness and competence.

'You must have what part of the house you please, while you are inclined to stay in it; but
I flatter myself with the hope that you and I shall some time pass our days together. I am
very solitary and comfortless, but will not invite you to come hither till I can have hope
of making you live here so as not to dislike your situation. Pray, my dearest, write to me
as often as you can.

'I am, dear Madam,

'Your affectionate humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.

'Feb. 6, 1759'

 'To Miss PORTER.

 'DEAR MADAM,

 'I thought your last letter long in coming; and did not require or
expect such an inventory of little things as you have sent me. I could
have taken your word for a matter of much greater value. I am glad that
Kitty is better; let her be paid first, as my dear, dear mother ordered,
and then let me know at once the sum necessary to discharge her other
debts, and I will find it you very soon.

'I beg, my dear, that you would act for me without the least scruple, for I can repose myself
very confidently upon your prudence, and hope we shall never have reason to love each other
less. I shall take it very kindly if you make it a rule to write to me once at least every
week, for I am now very desolate, and am loth to be universally forgotten.

                            'I am, dear sweet,
                                  'Your affectionate servant,
                                                    'SAM. JOHNSON.'
'March 1, 1759.'

'TO MISS PORTER.

'DEAR MADAM,

'I beg your pardon for having so long omitted to write. One thing or other has put me off.
I have this day moved my things and you are now to direct to me at Staple Inn, London. I hope,
my dear, you are well, and Kitty mends. I wish her success in her trade. I am going to publish
a little story book [Rasselas], which I will send you when it is out. Write to me, my dearest
girl, for I am always glad to hear from you.

                      'I am, my dear, your humble servant,
                                             'SAM. JOHNSON.'
'March 23, 1759.'

'TO MISS PORTER.

'DEAR MADAM,

'I am almost ashamed to tell you that all your letters came safe, and that I have been always
very well, but hindered, I hardly know how, from writing. I sent, last week, some of my works,
one for you, one for your aunt Hunter, who was with my poor dear mother when she died, one
for Mr. Howard, and one for Kitty.

'I beg you, my dear, to write often to me, and tell me how you like my little book.

                'I am, dear love, your affectionate humble servant,
                                             'SAM. JOHNSON.'
'May 10, 1759.'

JOHNSON AT CAMBRIDGE.

(Page 487.)

The following is the full extract of Dr. Sharp's letter giving an account of Johnson's visit
to Cambridge in 1765:--

'Camb. Mar. 1, 1765.

'As to Johnson, you will be surprised to hear that I have had him in the chair in which I am
now writing. He has ascended my aerial citadel. He came down on a Saturday evening, with a
Mr. Beauclerk, who has a friend at Trinity. Caliban, you may be sure, was not roused from his
lair before next day noon, and his breakfast probably kept him till night. I saw nothing of
him, nor was he heard of by any one, till Monday afternoon, when I was sent for home to two
gentlemen unknown. In conversation I made a strange faux pas about Burnaby Greene's poem, in
which Johnson is drawn at full length[1474]. He had on a better wig than usual, but, one whose
curls were not, like Sir Cloudesly's[1475], formed for 'eternal buckle.' [1476] Our conversation
was chiefly on books, you may be sure. He was much pleased with a small Milton of mine, published
in the author's lifetime, and with the Greek epigram on his own effigy, of its being the picture,
not of him, but of a bad painter[1477]. There are many manuscript stanzas, for aught I know,
in Milton's own handwriting, and several interlined hints and fragments. We were puzzled about
one of the sonnets, which we thought was not to be found in Newton's edition[1478], and differed
from all the printed ones. But Johnson cried, "No, no!" repeated the whole sonnet instantly,
memoriter, and shewed it us in Newton's book. After which he learnedly harangued on sonnet-writing,
and its different numbers. He tells me he will come hither again quickly, and is promised "an
habitation in Emanuel College[1479]." Mag. for 1785, p. 173.)

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX D.

JOHNSON'S LETTER TO DR. LELAND.

(Page 489.)

'TO THE REV. DR. LELAND.

'SIR,

'Among the names subscribed to the degree which I have had the honour of receiving from the
university of Dublin, I find none of which I have any personal knowledge but those of Dr. Andrews
and yourself.

'Men can be estimated by those who know them not, only as they are represented by those who
know them; and therefore I flatter myself that I owe much of the pleasure which this distinction
gives me to your concurrence with Dr. Andrews in recommending me to the learned society.

'Having desired the Provost to return my general thanks to the University, I beg that you,
sir, will accept my particular and immediate acknowledgements. It was written, says Hamilton's
editor, in November 1766. A dearth had caused riots. 'Those who want the supports of life,'
Johnson wrote, 'will seize them wherever they can be found.' (Ib. p. 322.) He supported in
this tract the bounty for exporting corn. If more than a year after he had engaged in politics
with Mr. Hamilton nothing had been produced but this short tract, the engagement was not of
much importance. But there was, I suspect, much more in it. Indeed, the editor says (Preface,
p. ix.) that 'Johnson had entered into some engagement with Mr. Hamilton, occasionally to furnish
him with his sentiments on the great political topicks that should be considered in Parliament.'
Mr. Croker draws attention to a passage in Johnson's letter to Miss Porter of Jan. 14, 1766
(Croker's Boswell, p. 173) in which he says: 'I cannot well come [to Lichfield] during the
session of parliament.' In the spring of this same year Burke had broken with Hamilton, in
whose service he had been. 'The occasion of our difference,' he wrote, 'was not any act whatsoever
on my part; it was entirely upon his, by a voluntary but most insolent and intolerable demand,
amounting to no less than a claim of servitude during the whole course of my life, without
leaving to me at any time a power either of getting forward with honour, or of retiring with
tranquillity' (Burke's Corres. i. 77). It seems to me highly probable that Hamilton, in consequence
of his having just lost, as I have shewn, Burke's services, sought Johnson's aid. He had taken
Burke 'as a companion in his studies.' (Ib. p. 48.) 'Six of the best years of my life,' wrote
Burke, 'he took me from every pursuit of literary reputation or of improvement of my fortune.
In that time he made his own fortune (a very great one).' (Ib. p. 67.) Burke had been recommended
to Hamilton by Dr. Warton. On losing him Hamilton, on Feb. 12, 1765, wrote to Warton, giving
a false account of his separation with Burke, and asking him to recommend some one to fill
his place--some one 'who, in addition to a taste and an understanding of ancient authors, and
what generally passes under the name of scholarship, has likewise a share of modern knowledge,
and has applied himself in some degree to the study of the law.' By way of payment he offers
at once 'an income, which would neither be insufficient for him as a man of letters, or disreputable
to him as a gentleman,' and hereafter 'a situation'--a post, that is to say, under government.
(Wooll's Warton, i. 299.) Warton recommended Chambers. Chambers does not seem to have accepted
the post, for we find him staying on at Oxford (post, ii. 25, 46). Johnson had all the knowledge
that Hamilton required, except that of law. It is this very study that we find him at this
very time entering upon. All this shows that for some time and to some extent an engagement
was formed between him and Hamilton. Boswell, writing to Malone on Feb. 25, 1791, while The
Life of Johnson was going through the press, says:--

'I shall have more cancels. That nervous mortal W. G. H. is not satisfied with my report of
some particulars which I wrote down from his own mouth, and is so much agitated that Courtenay
has persuaded me to allow a new edition of them by H. himself to be made at H.'s expense.'

(Croker's Boswell, p. 829). This would seem to show that there was something that Hamilton
wished to conceal. Horace Walpole (Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iii. 402) does not give
him a character for truthfulness. He writes on one occasion:--'Hamilton denied it, but his
truth was not renowned.' Miss Burney, who met Hamilton fourteen years after this, thus describes
him:--'This Mr. Hamilton is extremely tall and handsome; has an air of haughty and fashionable
superiority; is intelligent, dry, sarcastic, and clever. I should have received much pleasure
from his conversational powers, had I not previously been prejudiced against him, by hearing
that he is infinitely artful, double, and crafty.' (Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 293).

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX F.

JOHNSON'S FIRST ACQUAINTANCE WITH THE THRALES AND HIS SERIOUS ILLNESS.

(Page 490.)

Johnson (Pr. and Med. p. 191) writes:--'My first knowledge of Thrale was in 1765.' In a letter
to Mrs. Thrale, he says:--'You were but five-and-twenty when I knew you first.' (Piozzi Letters,
i. 284). As she was born on Jan. 16/27, 1741, this would place their introduction in 1766.
In another letter, written on July 8, 1784, he talks of her 'kindness which soothed twenty
years of a life radically wretched.' (Ib. ii. 376). Perhaps, however, he here spoke in round
numbers. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 125) says they first met in 1764. Mr. Thrale, she writes, sought
an excuse for inviting him. 'The celebrity of Mr. Woodhouse (post, ii. 127), a shoemaker, whose
verses were at that time the subject of common discourse, soon afforded a 'pretence.' There
is a notice of Woodhouse in the Gent. Mag. for June, 1764 (p. 289). Johnson, she says, dined
with them every Thursday through the winter of 1764-5, and in the autumn of 1765 followed them
to Brighton. In the Piozzi Letters (i. 1) there is a letter of his, dated Aug. 13, 1765, in
which he speaks of his intention to join them there.

'From that time,' she writes, 'his visits grew more frequent till, in the year 1766, his health,
which he had always complained of, grew so exceedingly bad, that he could not stir out of his
room in the court he inhabited for many weeks together, I think months. Mr. Thrale's attentions
and my own now became so acceptable to him, that he often lamented to us the horrible condition
of his mind, which, he said, was nearly distracted: and though he charged us to make him odd
solemn promises of secrecy on so strange a subject, yet when we waited on him one morning,
and heard him, in the most pathetic terms, beg the prayers of Dr. Delap [the Rector of Lewes]
who had left him as we came in, I felt excessively affected with grief, and well remember my
husband involuntarily lifted up one hand to shut his mouth, from provocation at hearing a man
so widely proclaim what he could at last persuade no one to believe; and what, if true, would
have been so unfit to reveal. Mr. Thrale went away soon after, leaving me with him, and bidding
me prevail on him to quit his close habitation in the court, and come with us to Streatham,
where I undertook the care of his health, and had the honour and happiness of contributing
to its restoration.'

It is not possible to reconcile the contradiction in dates between Johnson and Mrs. Piozzi,
nor is it easy to fix the time of this illness. That before February, 1766, he had had an illness
so serious as to lead him altogether to abstain from wine is beyond a doubt. Boswell, on his
return to England in that month, heard it from his own lips (post, ii. 8). That this illness
must have attacked him after March 1, 1765, when he visited Cambridge, is also clear; for at
that time he was still drinking wine (ante, Appendix C). That he was unusually depressed in
the spring of this year is shewn by his entry at Easter (ante, p. 487). From his visit to Dr.
Percy in the summer of 1764 (ante, p. 486) to the autumn of 1765, we have very little information
about him. For more than two years he did not write to Boswell (post, ii. 1). Dr. Adams (ante,
p. 483) describes the same kind of attack as Mrs. Piozzi. Its date is not given. Boswell, after
quoting an entry made on Johnson's birthday, Sept. 18, 1764, says 'about this time he was afflicted'
with the illness Dr. Adams describes. From Mrs. Piozzi, from Johnson's account to Boswell,
and from Dr. Adams we learn of a serious illness. Was there more than one? If there was only
one, then Boswell is wrong in placing it before March 1, 1765, when Johnson was still a wine-drinker,
and Mrs. Piozzi is wrong in placing it after February, 1766, when he had become an abstainer.
Johnson certainly stayed at Streatham from before Midsummer to October in 1766 (post, ii. 25,
and Pr. and Med. p. 71), and this fact lends support to Mrs. Piozzi's statement. But, on the
other hand, his meetings with Boswell in February of that year, and his letters to Langton
of March 9 and May 10 (post, ii. 16, 17), shew a not unhappy frame of mind. Boswell, in his
Hebrides (Oct. 16, 1773), speaks of Johnson's illness in 1766. If it was in 1766 that he was
ill, it must have been after May 10 and before Midsummer-day, and this period is almost too
brief for Mrs. Piozzi's account. It is a curious coincidence that Cowper was introduced to
the Unwins in the same year in which Johnson, according to his own account, had his first knowledge
of the Thrales. (Southey's Cowper, i, 171.)

       *        *        *        *        *

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Post, iv. 172.

[2] Post, iii. 312.

[3] Post, i. 324.

[4] History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, ed. 1807, vol. i. p. xi.

[5] Post, iii. 230.

[6] Post, i. 7.

[7] Post, ii. 212.

[8] Post, i. 7.

[9] Post, iv. 444.

[10] Post, ii. 100.

[11] Post, iv. 429; v. 17.

[12] Post, v. 117.

[13] Post, i. 472, n. 4; iv. 260, n. 2; v. 405, n. 1, 454, n. 2; vi. i-xxxvii.

[14] Post, i. 60, n. 7.

[15] Post, ii. 476.

[16] Post, vi. xxxiv.

[17] Post, iii. 462.

[18] Post, vi. xxii.

[19] Post, iv. 8, n. 3.

[20] Post, i. 489, 518.

[21] Post, iv. 223, n. 3.

[22] Post, i. 39, n. 1.

[23] Post, iii. 340, n. 2.

[24] Post, i. 103, n. 3.

[25] Post, i. 501.

[26] Post, iii. 443.

[27] Post, iii. 314.

[28] Post, iii. 449.

[29] Post, iii. 478.

[30] Post, iii. 459.

[31] Post, i. 189. n. 2.

[32] i. 296, n. 3.

[33] Post, vi. 289.

[34] Post, ii. 350.

[35] Post, iii. 137, n. 1; 389.

[36] Post, i. 14

[37] Post, i. 7-8

[38] Post, i. 14-15.

[39] Post, iv. 31, n. 3

[40] ii. 173-4.

[41] vol. ii. p. 47.

[42] Johnson's Works, ed. 1825, vol. v. p. 152.

[43] Johnson's Works, ed. 1825, vol. v. p. 152.

[44] See Post, ii. 35, 424-6, 441.

[45] See Post, iv. 422.

[46] Correspondence of Edmund Burke, ii. 425.

[47] To this interesting and accurate publication I am indebted for many valuable notes.

[48] Post, iii. 51, n. 3.

[49] Johnson's Works, ed. 1825, vol. iv. p. 446.

[50] Post, i. 331, n. 7.

[51] Johnson said of him:--'Sir Joshua Reynolds is the same all the year round;' post, March
28, 1776. Boswell elsewhere describes him as 'he who used to be looked upon as perhaps the
most happy man in the world.' Letters of Boswell, p. 344.

[52] 'O noctes coenaeque Deum!' 'O joyous nights! delicious feasts! At which the gods might
be my guests. Francis. Horace, Sat, ii. 6. 65.

[53] Six years before this Dedication Sir Joshua had conferred on him another favour. 'I have
a proposal to make to you,' Boswell had written to him, 'I am for certain to be called to the
English bar next February. Will you now do my picture? and the price shall be paid out of the
first fees which I receive as a barrister in Westminster Hall. Or if that fund should fail,
it shall be paid at any rate five years hence by myself or my representatives.' Boswell told
him at the same time that the debts which he had contracted in his father's lifetime would
not be cleared off for some years. The letter was endorsed by Sir Joshua:--'I agree to the
above conditions;' and the portrait was painted. Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 477.

[54] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773.

[55] 'I surely have the art of writing agreeably. The Lord Chancellor [Thurlow] told me he
had read every word of my Hebridian Journal;' he could not help it; adding, 'could you give
a rule how to write a book that a man must read? I believe Longinus could not.' Letters of
Boswell, p. 322.

[56] Boswell perhaps quotes from memory the following passage in Goldsmith's Life of Nash:--'The
doctor was one day conversing with Locke and two or three more of his learned and intimate
companions, with that freedom, gaiety, and cheerfulness, which is ever the result of innocence.
In the midst of their mirth and laughter, the doctor, looking from the window, saw Nash's chariot
stop at the door. "Boys, boys," cried the philosopher, "let us now be wise, for here is a fool
coming."' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 96. Dr. Warton in his criticism on Pope's line

'Unthought of frailties cheat us
  in the wise,'

(Moral Essays, i. 69) says:--'For who could imagine that Dr. Clarke valued himself for his
agility, and frequently amused himself in a private room of his house in leaping over the tables
and chairs.' Warton's Essay on Pope, ii. 125. 'It is a good remark of Montaigne's,' wrote Goldsmith,
'that the wisest men often have friends with whom they do not care how much they play the fool.'
Forster's Goldsmith, i. 166. Mr. Seward says in his Anecdotes, ii. 320, that 'in the opinion
of Dr. Johnson' Dr. Clarke was the most complete literary character that England ever produced.'
For Dr. Clarke's sermons see post, April 7, 1778.

[57] See post, Oct. 16, 1769, note.

[58] How much delighted would Boswell have been, had he been shewn the following passage, recorded
by Miss Burney, in an account she gives of a conversation with the Queen:--

THE QUEEN:--'Miss Burney, have you heard that Boswell is going to publish a life of your friend
Dr. Johnson?' 'No, ma'am!' 'I tell you as I heard, I don't know for the truth of it, and I
can't tell what he will do. He is so extraordinary a man that perhaps he will devise something
extraordinary.' Mme. D'Artlay's Diary, ii. 400. 'Dr. Johnson's history,' wrote Horace Walpole,
on June 20, 1785, 'though he is going to have as many lives as a cat, might be reduced to four
lines; but I shall wait to extract the quintessence till Sir John Hawkins, Madame Piozzi, and
Mr. Boswell have produced their quartos.' Horace Walpole's Letters, viii. 557.

[59] The delay was in part due to Boswell's dissipation and place-hunting, as is shewn by the
following passages in his Letters to Temple:--'Feb. 24, 1788, I have been wretchedly dissipated,
so that I have not written a line for a fortnight.' p. 266. 'Nov. 28, 1789, Malone's hospitality,
and my other invitations, and particularly my attendance at Lord Lonsdale's, have lost us many
evenings.' Ib. p. 311. 'June 21, 1790, How unfortunate to be obliged to interrupt my work!
Never was a poor ambitious projector more mortified. I am suffering without any prospect of
reward, and only from my own folly.' Ib. p. 326. Mr. Barclay said that 'he had seen Boswell
lay down his knife and fork, and take out his tablets, in order to register a good anecdote.'
Croker's Boswell, p. 837. The account given by Paoli to Miss Burney, shows that very early
in life Boswell took out his tablets:--'He came to my country, and he fetched me some letter
of recommending him; but I was of the belief he might be an impostor, and I supposed in my
minde he was an espy; for I look away from him, and in a moment I look to him again, and I
behold his tablets. Oh! he was to the work of writing down all I say. Indeed I was angry. But
soon I discover he was no impostor and no espy; and I only find I was myself the monster he
had come to discern. Oh! he is a very good man; I love him indeed; so cheerful, so gay, so
pleasant! but at the first, oh! I was indeed angry.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 155. Boswell
not only recorded the conversations, he often stimulated them. On one occasion 'he assumed,'
he said, 'an air of ignorance to incite Dr. Johnson to talk, for which it was often necessary
to employ some address.' See post, April 12, 1776. 'Tom Tyers,' said Johnson, 'described me
the best. He once said to me, "Sir, you are like a ghost: you never speak till you are spoken
to."' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 20, 1773. Boswell writing of this Tour said:--'I also may be
allowed to claim some merit in leading the conversation; I do not mean leading, as in an orchestra,
by playing the first fiddle; but leading as one does in examining a witness--starting topics,
and making him pursue them.' Ib. Sept. 28. One day he recorded:--'I did not exert myself to
get Dr. Johnson to talk, that I might not have the labour of writing down his conversation.'
Ib. Sept. 7. His industry grew much less towards the close of Johnson's life. Under May 8,
1781, he records:--'Of his conversation on that and other occasions during this period, I neglected
to keep any regular record.' On May 15, 1783:--'I have no minute of any interview with Johnson
[from May 1] till May 15. 'May 15, 1784:--'Of these days and others on which I saw him I have
no memorials.'

[62] It is an interesting question how far Boswell derived his love of truth from himself,
and how far from Johnson's training. He was one of Johnson's school. Writing to Temple in 1789,
he said:--'Johnson taught me to cross-question in common life.' Letters of Boswell, p. 280.
His quotations, nevertheless, are not unfrequently inaccurate. Yet to him might fairly be applied
the words that Gibbon used of Tillemont:--'His inimitable accuracy almost assumes the character
of genius.' Gibbon's Misc. Words, i. 213.

[63] 'The revision of my Life of Johnson, by so acute and knowing a critic as Mr. Malone, is
of most essential consequence, especially as he is Johnsonianissimum.' Letters of Boswell,
p. 310. A few weeks earlier he had written:--'Yesterday afternoon Malone and I made ready for
the press thirty pages of Johnson's Life; he is much pleased with it; but I feel a sad indifference
[he had lately lost his wife], and he says, "I have not the use of my faculties."' Ib. p. 308.

[64] Horace, Odes, i. 3. 1.

[65] He had published an answer to Hume's Essay on Miracles. See post, March 20, 1776.

[66] Macleod asked if it was not wrong in Orrery to expose the defects of a man [Swift] with
whom he lived in intimacy, Johnson, 'Why no, Sir, after the man is dead; for then it is done
historically.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22, 1773. See also post, Sept 17, 1777.

[67] See Mr. Malone's Preface to his edition of Shakspeare. BOSWELL.

[68] 'April 6, 1791.

'My Life of Johnson is at last drawing to a close.... I really hope to publish it on the 25th
current.... I am at present in such bad spirits that I have every fear concerning it--that
I may get no profit, nay, may lose--that the Public may be disappointed, and think that I have
done it poorly--that I may make many enemies, and even have quarrels. Yet perhaps the very
reverse of all this may happen.' Letters of Boswell, p. 335.

'August 22, 1791.

'My magnum opus sells wonderfully; twelve hundred are now gone, and we hope the whole seventeen
hundred may be gone before Christmas.' Ib. p. 342.

Malone in his Preface to the fourth edition, dated June 20, 1804, says that 'near four thousand
copies have been dispersed.' The first edition was in 2 vols., quarto; the second (1793) in
3 vols., octavo; the third (1799), the fourth (1804), the fifth (1807), and the sixth (1811),
were each in 4 vols., octavo. The last four were edited by Malone, Boswell having died while
he was preparing notes for the third edition.

[69] 'Burke affirmed that Boswell's Life was a greater monument to Johnson's fame than all
his writings put together.' Life of Mackintosh, i. 92.

[70] It is a pamphlet of forty-two pages, under the title of The Principal Corrections and
Additions to the First Edition of Mr. Boswell's Life Of Johnson. Price two shillings and sixpence.

[71] Reynolds died on Feb. 23, 1792.

[72] Sir Joshua in his will left L200 to Mr. Boswell 'to be expended, if he thought proper,
in the purchase of a picture at the sale of his paintings, to be kept for his sake.' Taylor's
Reynolds, ii. 636.

[73] Of the seventy-five years that Johnson lived, he and Boswell did not spend two years and
two months in the same neighbourhood. Excluding the time they were together on their tour to
the Hebrides, they were dwelling within reach of each other a few weeks less than two years.
Moreover, when they were apart, there were great gaps in their correspondence. Between Dec.
8, 1763, and Jan. 14, 1766, and again between Nov. 10, 1769 and June 20, 1771, during which
periods they did not meet, Boswell did not receive a single letter from Johnson. The following
table shows the times they were in the same neighbourhood.

1763, May 16 to Aug. 6,              London.
1766, a few days in February           "
1768,        "        "      March,  Oxford.
1768, a few days in May,             London.
1769, end of Sept. to Nov. 10,         "
1772, March 21 to about May 10,        "
1773, April 3 to May 10,               "
   "     Aug. 14 to Nov. 22,         Scotland.
1775, March 21 to April 18,          London.
         May 2 to May 23,              "
1776, March 15 to May 16,            London, Oxford, Birmingham,
         with an interval of         Lichfield,
         about a fortnight,          Ashbourne,
         when Johnson was at         and
         Bath and Boswell at         Bath.
         London,
1777, Sept. 14 to Sept. 24,          Ashbourne.
1778, March 18 to May 19,            London.
1779, March 15 to May 3,               "
  "      Oct. 4 to Oct. 18,            "
1781, March 19 to June 5,            London
                                         and Southill.
1783, March 21 to May 30,            London.
1784, May 5 to June 30,              London
                                         and Oxford.

[74]

'To shew what wisdom and what sense can do, The poet sets Ulysses in our view.'

Francis. Horace, Ep. i. 2. 17.

[75] In his Letter to the People of Scotland, p. 92, he wrote:--'Allow me, my friends and countrymen,
while I with honest zeal maintain your cause--allow me to indulge a little more my own egotism
and vanity. They are the indigenous plants of my mind; they distinguish it. I may prune their
luxuriancy; but I must not entirely clear it of them; for then I should be no longer "as I
am;" and perhaps there might be something not so good.'

[76] See post, April 17, 1778, note.

[77] Lord Macartney was the first English ambassador to the Court of Pekin. He left England
in 1792 and returned in 1794.

[78] Boswell writing to Temple ten days earlier had said:--'Behold my hand! the robbery is
only of a few shillings; but the cut on my head and bruises on my arms were sad things, and
confined me to bed, in pain, and fever, and helplessness, as a child, many days.... This shall
be a crisis in my life: I trust I shall henceforth be a sober regular man. Indeed, my indulgence
in wine has, of late years especially, been excessive.' Letters of Boswell, p. 346.

[79] On this day his brother wrote to Mr. Temple: 'I have now the painful task of informing
you that my dear brother expired this morning at two o'clock; we have both lost a kind, affectionate
friend, and I shall never have such another.' Letters of Boswell, p. 357. What was probably
Boswell's last letter is as follows:--

'My Dear Temple,

'I would fain write to you in my own hand, but really cannot. [These words, which are hardly
legible, and probably the last poor Boswell ever wrote, afford the clearest evidence of his
utter physical prostration.] Alas, my friend, what a state is this! My son James is to write
for me what remains of this letter, and I am to dictate. The pain which continued for so many
weeks was very severe indeed, and when it went off I thought myself quite well; but I soon
felt a conviction that I was by no means as I should be--so exceedingly weak, as my miserable
attempt to write to you afforded a full proof. All then that can be said is, that I must wait
with patience. But, O my friend! how strange is it that, at this very time of my illness, you
and Miss Temple should have been in such a dangerous state. Much occasion for thankfulness
is there that it has not been worse with you. Pray write, or make somebody write frequently.
I feel myself a good deal stronger to-day, not withstanding the scrawl. God bless you, my dear
Temple! I ever am your old and affectionate friend, here and I trust hereafter,

'JAMES BOSWELL.' Ib. p. 353.

[80] Malone died on May 25, 1812.

[81] I do not here include his Poetical Works; for, excepting his Latin Translation of Pope's
Messiah, his London, and his Vanity of Human Wishes imitated from Juvenal; his Prologue on
the opening of Drury-Lane Theatre by Mr. Garrick, and his Irene, a Tragedy, they are very numerous,
and in general short; and I have promised a complete edition of them, in which I shall with
the utmost care ascertain their authenticity, and illustrate them with notes and various readings.
BOSWELL. Boswell's meaning, though not well expressed, is clear enough. Mr. Croker needlessly
suggests that he wrote 'they are not very numerous.' Boswell a second time (post, under Aug.
12, 1784, note) mentions his intention to edit Johnson's poems. He died without doing it. See
also post, 1750, Boswell's note on Addison's style.

[82] The Female Quixote was published in 1752. See post, 1762, note.

[83] The first four volumes of the Lives were published in 1779, the last six in 1781.

[84] See Dr. Johnson's letter to Mrs. Thrale, dated Ostick in Skie, September 30, 1773:--'Boswell
writes a regular Journal of our travels, which I think contains as much of what I say and do,
as of all other occurrences together; "for such a faithful chronicler is Griffith."' BOSWELL.
See Piozzi Letters, i. 159, where however we read 'as Griffith.'

[85] Idler, No. 84. BOSWELL.--In this paper he says: 'Those relations are commonly of most
value in which the writer tells his own story. He that recounts the life of another ... lessens
the familiarity of his tale to increase its dignity ... and endeavours to hide the man that
he may produce a hero.'

[86] 'It very seldom happens to man that his business is his pleasure. What is done from necessity
is so often to be done when against the present inclination, and so often fills the mind with
anxiety, that an habitual dislike steals upon us, and we shrink involuntarily from the remembrance
of our task.... From this unwillingness to perform more than is required of that which is commonly
performed with reluctance it proceeds that few authors write their own lives.' Idler, No. 102.
See also post, May 1, 1783.

[87] Mrs. Piozzi records the following conversation with Johnson, which, she says, took place
on July 18, 1773. 'And who will be my biographer,' said he, 'do you think?' 'Goldsmith, no
doubt,' replied I; 'and he will do it the best among us.' 'The dog would write it best to be
sure,' replied he; 'but his particular malice towards me, and general disregard for truth,
would make the book useless to all, and injurious to my character.' 'Oh! as to that,' said
I, 'we should all fasten upon him, and force him to do you justice; but the worst is, the Doctor
does not know your life; nor can I tell indeed who does, except Dr. Taylor of Ashbourne.' 'Why
Taylor,' said he, 'is better acquainted with my heart than any man or woman now alive; and
the history of my Oxford exploits lies all between him and Adams; but Dr. James knows my very
early days better than he. After my coming to London to drive the world about a little, you
must all go to Jack Hawkesworth for anecdotes: I lived in great familiarity with him (though
I think there was not much affection) from the year 1753 till the time Mr. Thrale and you took
me up. I intend, however, to disappoint the rogues, and either make you write the life, with
Taylor's intelligence; or, which is better, do it myself after outliving you all. I am now,'
added he, 'keeping a diary, in hopes of using it for that purpose sometime.' Piozzi's Anec.
p. 31. How much of this is true cannot be known. Boswell some time before this conversation
had told Johnson that he intended to write his Life, and Johnson had given him many particulars
(see post, March 31, 1772, and April 11, 1773). He read moreover in manuscript most of Boswell's
Tour to the Hebrides, and from it learnt of his intention. 'It is no small satisfaction to
me to reflect,' Boswell wrote, 'that Dr. Johnson, after being apprised of my intentions, communicated
to me, at subsequent periods, many particulars of his life.' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14, 1773.

[88] 'It may be said the death of Dr. Johnson kept the public mind in agitation beyond all
former example. No literary character ever excited so much attention.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 3.

[89] The greatest part of this book was written while Sir John Hawkins was alive; and I avow,
that one object of my strictures was to make him feel some compunction for his illiberal treatment
of Dr. Johnson. Since his decease, I have suppressed several of my remarks upon his work. But
though I would not 'war with the dead' offensively, I think it necessary to be strenuous in
defence of my illustrious friend, which I cannot be without strong animadversions upon a writer
who has greatly injured him. Let me add, that though I doubt I should not have been very prompt
to gratify Sir John Hawkins with any compliment in his life-time, I do now frankly acknowledge,
that, in my opinion, his volume, however inadequate and improper as a life of Dr. Johnson,
and however discredited by unpardonable inaccuracies in other respects, contains a collection
of curious anecdotes and observations, which few men but its author could have brought together.
BOSWELL.

[90] 'The next name that was started was that of Sir John Hawkins; and Mrs. Thrale said, "Why
now, Dr. Johnson, he is another of those whom you suffer nobody to abuse but yourself: Garrick
is one too; for, if any other person speaks against him, you brow-beat him in a minute." "Why
madam," answered he, "they don't know when to abuse him, and when to praise him; I will allow
no man to speak ill of David that he does not deserve; and as to Sir John, why really I believe
him to be an honest man at the bottom; but to be sure he is penurious, and he is mean, and
it must be owned he has a degree of brutality, and a tendency to savageness, that cannot easily
be defended.... He said that Sir John and he once belonged to the same club, but that as he
eat no supper, after, the first night of his admission he desired to be excused paying his
share." "And was he excused?" "O yes; for no man is angry at another for being inferior to
himself. We all scorned him, and admitted his plea. For my part, I was such a fool as to pay
my share for wine, though I never tasted any. But Sir John was a most unclubable man."' Madame
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 65.

[91] 'In censuring Mr. [sic] J. Hawkins's book I say: "There is throughout the whole of it
a dark, uncharitable cast, which puts the most unfavourable construction on my illustrious
friend's conduct." Malone maintains cast will not do; he will have "malignancy." Is that not
too strong? How would "disposition" do?... Hawkins is no doubt very malevolent. Observe how
he talks of me as quite unknown.' Letters of Boswell, p. 281. Malone wrote of Hawkins as follows:
'The bishop [Bishop Percy of Dromore] concurred with every other person I have heard speak
of Hawkins, in saying that he was a most detestable fellow. He was the son of a carpenter,
and set out in life in the very lowest line of the law. Dyer knew him well at one time, and
the Bishop heard him give a character of Hawkins once that painted him in the blackest colours;
though Dyer was by no means apt to deal in such portraits. Dyer said he was a man of the most
mischievous, uncharitable, and malignant disposition. Sir Joshua Reynolds observed to me that
Hawkins, though he assumed great outward sanctity, was not only mean and grovelling in dispostion,
but absolutely dishonest. He never lived in any real intimacy with Dr. Johnson, who never opened
his heart to him, or had in fact any accurate knowledge of his character.' Prior's Malone,
pp. 425-7. See post, Feb. 1764, note.

[92] Mrs. Piozzi. See post, under June 30, 1784.

[93] Voltaire in his account of Bayle says: 'Des Maizeaux a ecrit sa vie en un gros volume;
elle ne devait pas contenir six pages.' Voltaire's Works, edition of 1819, xvii. 47.

[94] Brit. Mus. 4320, Ayscough's Catal., Sloane MSS. BOSWELL.--Horace Walpole describes Birch
as 'a worthy, good-natured soul, full of industry and activity, and running about like a young
setting-dog in quest of anything, new or old, and with no parts, taste, or judgment.' Walpole's
Letters, vii. 326. See post, Sept. 1743.

[95] 'You have fixed the method of biography, and whoever will write a life well must imitate
you.' Horace Walpole to Mason; Walpole's Letters, vi. 211.

[96] 'I am absolutely certain that my mode of biography, which gives not only a History of
Johnson's visible progress through the world, and of his publications, but a view of his mind
in his letters and conversations, is the most perfect that can be conceived, and will be more
of a Life than any work that has ever yet appeared.' Letters of Boswell, p. 265.

[97] Pope's Prologue to Addison's Cato, 1. 4.

[99] See post, Sept. 17, 1777, and Malone's note of March 15, 1781, and Boswell's Hebrides,
Sept. 22, 1773. Hannah More met Boswell when he was carrying through the press his Journal
of a Tour to the Hebrides. 'Boswell tells me,' she writes, 'he is printing anecdotes of Johnson,
not his Life, but, as he has the vanity to call it, his pyramid. I besought his tenderness
for our virtuous and most revered departed friend, and begged he would mitigate some of his
asperities. He said roughly: "He would not cut off his claws, nor make a tiger a cat, to please
anybody." It will, I doubt not, be a very amusing book, but, I hope, not an indiscreet one;
he has great enthusiasm and some fire.' H. More's Memoirs, i. 403.

[100] Rambler, No. 60. BOSWELL.

[101] In the Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides.

[102] 'Mason's Life of Gray is excellent, because it is interspersed with letters which show
us the man. His Life of Whitehead is not a life at all, for there is neither a letter nor a
saying from first to last.' Letters of Boswell, p. 265.

[103] The Earl and Countess of Jersey, WRIGHT.

[104] Plutarch's Life of Alexander, Langhorne's Translation. BOSWELL.

[105] In the original, revolving something.

[106] In the original, and so little regard the manners.

[107] In the original, and are rarely transmitted.

[108] Rambler, No. 60. BOSWELL.

[109] Bacon's Advancement of Learning, Book I. BOSWELL.

[110] Johnson's godfather, Dr. Samuel Swinfen, according to the author of Memoirs of the Life
and Writings of Dr. Johnson, 1785, p. 10, was at the time of his birth lodging with Michael
Johnson. Johnson had uncles on the mother's side, named Samuel and Nathanael (see Notes and
Queries, 5th S. v. 13), after whom he and his brother may have been named. It seems more likely
that it was his godfather who gave him his name.

[111] So early as 1709 The Tatler complains of this 'indiscriminate assumption.' 'I'll undertake
that if you read the superscriptions to all the offices in the kingdom, you will not find three
letters directed to any but Esquires.... In a word it is now Populus Armigerorum, a people
of Esquires, And I don't know but by the late act of naturalisation, foreigners will assume
that title as part of the immunity of being Englishmen.' The Tatler, No. 19.

[112] 'I can hardly tell who was my grandfather,' said Johnson. See post, May 9, 1773.

[113] Michael Johnson was born in 1656. He must have been engaged in the book-trade as early
as 1681; for in the Life of Dryden his son says, 'The sale of Absalom and Achitophel was so
large, that my father, an old bookseller, told me, he had not known it equalled but by Sacheverell's
Trial.' Johnson's Works, vii. 276. In the Life of Sprat he is described by his son as 'an old
man who had been no careless observer of the passages of those times.' Ib. 392.

[114] Her epitaph says that she was born at Kingsnorton. Kingsnorton is in Worcestershire,
and not, as the epitaph says, 'in agro Varvicensi.' When Johnson a few days before his death
burnt his papers, some fragments of his Annals escaped the flames. One of these was never seen
by Boswell; it was published in 1805 under the title of An Account of the Life of Dr. Samuel
Johnson, from his Birth to his Eleventh Year, written by himself. In this he says (p. 14),
'My mother had no value for my father's relations; those indeed whom we knew of were much lower
than hers.' Writing to Mrs. Thrale on his way to Scotland he said: 'We changed our horses at
Darlington, where Mr. Cornelius Harrison, a cousin-german of mine, was perpetual curate. He
was the only one of my relations who ever rose in fortune above penury, or in character above
neglect.' Piozzi Letters, i. 105. His uncle Harrison he described as 'a very mean and vulgar
man, drunk every night, but drunk with little drink, very peevish, very proud, very ostentatious,
but luckily not rich.' Annals, p. 28. In Notes and Queries, 6th S. x. 465, is given the following
extract of the marriage of Johnson's parents from the Register of Packwood in Warwickshire:--

'1706. Mickell Johnsones of lichfield and Sara ford maried June the 9th.'

[115] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 3) records that Johnson told her that 'his father was wrong-headed,
positive, and afflicted with melancholy.'

[116] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 213 [Sept. 16]. BOSWELL.

[117] Stockdale in his Memoirs, ii. 102, records an anecdote told him by Johnson of 'the generosity
of one of the customers of his father. "This man was purchasing a book, and pressed my father
to let him have it at a far less price than it was worth. When his other topics of persuasion
failed, he had recourse to one argument which, he thought, would infallibly prevail:--You know,
Mr. Johnson, that I buy an almanac of you every year."'

[118] Extract of a letter, dated 'Trentham, St. Peter's day, 1716,' written by the Rev. George
Plaxton, Chaplain at that time to Lord Gower, which may serve to show the high estimation in
which the Father of our great Moralist was held: 'Johnson, the Litchfield Librarian, is now
here; he propagates learning all over this diocese, and advanceth knowledge to its just height;
all the Clergy here are his Pupils, and suck all they have from him; Allen cannot make a warrant
without his precedent, nor our quondam John Evans draw a recognizance sine directione Michaelis.'
Gentleman's Magazine, October, 1791. BOSWELL.

[119] In Notes and Queries, 3rd S. v. 33, is given the following title-page of one of his books:
'[Greek: Pharmako-Basauos]: or the Touchstone of Medicines, etc. By Sir John Floyer of the
City of Litchfield, Kt., M.D., of Queen's College, Oxford. London: Printed for Michael Johnson,
Bookseller, and are to be sold at his shops at Litchfield and Uttoxiter, in Staffordshire;
and Ashby-de-la-Zouch, in Leicestershire, 1687.'

[120] Johnson writing of his birth says: 'My father being that year sheriff of Lichfield, and
to ride the circuit of the county [Mr. Croker suggests city, not being aware that 'the City
of Lichfield was a county in itself.' See Harwood's Lichfield, p. 1. In like manner, in the
Militia Bill of 1756 (post 1756) we find entered, 'Devonshire with Exeter City and County,'
'Lincolnshire with Lincoln City and County'] next day, which was a ceremony then performed
with great pomp, he was asked by my mother whom he would invite to the Riding; and answered,
"all the town now." He feasted the citizens with uncommon magnificence, and was the last but
one that maintained the splendour of the Riding.' Annals, p. 10. He served the office of churchwarden
in 1688; of sheriff in 1709; of junior bailiff in 1718; and senior bailiff in 1725.' Harwood's
Lichfield, p. 449.

[121] 'My father and mother had not much happiness from each other. They seldom conversed;
for my father could not bear to talk of his affairs, and my mother being unacquainted with
books cared not to talk of anything else. Had my mother been more literate, they had been better
companions. She might have sometimes introduced her unwelcome topic with more success, if she
could have diversified her conversation. Of business she had no distinct conception; and therefore
her discourse was composed only of complaint, fear, and suspicion. Neither of them ever tried
to calculate the profits of trade, or the expenses of living. My mother concluded that we were
poor, because we lost by some of our trades; but the truth was, that my father, having in the
early part of his life contracted debts, never had trade sufficient to enable him to pay them
and maintain his family; he got something, but not enough.' Annals, p. 14. Mr. Croker noticing
the violence of Johnson's language against the Excise, with great acuteness suspected 'some
cause of personal animosity;' this mention of the trade in parchment (an exciseable article)
afforded a clue, which has led to the confirmation of that suspicion. In the records of the
Excise Board is to be found the following letter, addressed to the supervisor of excise at
Lichfield: 'July 27, 1725. The Commissioners received yours of the 22nd instant, and since
the justices would not give judgment against Mr. Michael Johnson, the tanner, notwithstanding
the facts were fairly against him, the Board direct that the next time he offends, you do not
lay an information against him, but send an affidavit of the fact, that he may be prosecuted
in the Exchequer.'

[122] See post, March 27, 1775.

[123] 'I remember, that being in bed with my mother one morning, I was told by her of the two
places to which the inhabitants of this world were received after death: one a fine place filled
with happiness, called Heaven; the other, a sad place, called Hell. That this account much
affected my imagination I do not remember.' Annals, p. 19.

[124] Johnson's Works, vi. 406.

[125] Mr. Croker disbelieves the story altogether. 'Sacheverel,' he says, 'by his sentence
pronounced in Feb. 1710, was interdicted for three years from preaching; so that he could not
have preached at Lichfield while Johnson was under three years of age. Sacheverel, indeed,
made a triumphal progress through the midland counties in 1710; and it appears by the books
of the corporation of Lichfield that he was received in that town, and complimented by the
attendance of the corporation, "and a present of three dozen of wine," on June 16, 1710; but
then "the infant Hercules of Toryism" was just nine months old.' It is quite possible that
the story is in the main correct. Sacheverel was received in Lichfield in 1710 on his way down
to Shropshire to take possession of a living. At the end of the suspension in March 1713 he
preached a sermon in London, for which, as he told Swift, 'a book-seller gave him L100, intending
to print 30,000' (Swift's Journal to Stella, April 2, 1713). It is likely enough that either
on his way up to town or on his return journey he preached at Lichfield. In the spring of 1713
Johnson was three years old.

[126] See post, p. 48, and April 25,1778 note; and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 28, 1773.

[127] Anecdotes of Dr. Johnson, by Hester Lynch Piozzi, p. 11. Life of Dr. Johnson, by Sir
John Hawkins, p. 6. BOSWELL.

[128] 'My father had much vanity which his adversity hindered from being fully exerted.' Annals,
p. 14.

[129] This anecdote of the duck, though disproved by internal and external evidence, has nevertheless,
upon supposition of its truth, been made the foundation of the following ingenious and fanciful
reflections of Miss Seward, amongst the communications concerning Dr. Johnson with which she
has been pleased to favour me: 'These infant numbers contain the seeds of those propensities
which through his life so strongly marked his character, of that poetick talent which afterwards
bore such rich and plentiful fruits; for, excepting his orthographick works, every thing which
Dr. Johnson wrote was Poetry, whose essence consists not in numbers, or in jingle, but in the
strength and glow of a fancy, to which all the stores of nature and of art stand in prompt
administration; and in an eloquence which conveys their blended illustrations in a language
"more tuneable than needs or rhyme or verse to add more harmony."

'The above little verses also shew that superstitious bias which "grew with his growth, and
strengthened with his strength," and, of late years particularly, injured his happiness, by
presenting to him the gloomy side of religion, rather than that bright and cheering one which
gilds the period of closing life with the light of pious hope.'

This is so beautifully imagined, that I would not suppress it. But like many other theories,
it is deduced from a supposed fact, which is, indeed, a fiction. BOSWELL.

[130] Prayers and Meditations, p. 27. BOSWELL.

[131] Speaking himself of the imperfection of one of his eyes, he said to Dr. Burney, 'the
dog was never good for much.' MALONE.

[132] Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 1, 1773.

[133] 'No accidental position of a riband,' wrote Mrs. Piozzi, 'escaped him, so nice was his
observation, and so rigorous his demands of propriety.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 287. Miss Burney
says:-- 'Notwithstanding Johnson is sometimes so absent and always so near-sighted, he scrutinizes
into every part of almost everybody's appearance [at Streatham].' And again she writes:--'his
blindness is as much the effect of absence [of mind] as of infirmity, for he sees wonderfully
at times. He can see the colour of a lady's top-knot, for he very often finds fault with it.'
Mme. D'Arblays Diary, i. 85, ii. 174. 'He could, when well, distinguish the hour on Lichfield
town-clock.' Post, p. 64.

[134] See post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[135] This was Dr. Swinfen's opinion, who seems also to have attributed Johnson's short-sightedness
to the same cause. 'My mother,' he says, 'thought my diseases derived from her family.' Annals,
p. 12. When he was put out at nurse, 'She visited me,' he says, 'every day, and used to go
different ways, that her assiduity might not expose her to ridicule.'

[136] In 1738 Carte published a masterly 'Account of Materials, etc., for a History of England
with the method of his undertaking.' (Gent. Mag. viii. 227.) He proposed to do much of what
has been since done under the direction of the Master of the Rolls. He asked for subscriptions
to carry on his great undertaking, for in its researches it was to be very great. In 1744 the
City of London resolved to subscribe L50 for seven years (ib. xiv: 393). In vol. i. of his
history, which only came down to the reign of John (published in 1748), he went out of his
way to assert that the cure by the king's touch was not due to the 'regal unction'; for he
had known a man cured who had gone over to France, and had been there 'touched by the eldest
lineal descendant of a race of kings who had not at that time been crowned or anointed.' (ib.
xviii. 13.) Thereupon the Court of Common Council by a unanimous vote withdrew its subscription,
(ib. 185.) The old Jacobites maintained that the power did not descend to Mary, William, or
Anne. It was for this reason that Boswell said that Johnson should have been taken to Rome;
though indeed it was not till some years after he was 'touched' by Queen Anne that the Pretender
dwelt there. The Hanoverian kings never 'touched.' The service for the ceremony was printed
in the Book of Common Prayer as late as 1719. (Penny Cyclo. xxi. 113.) 'It appears by the newspapers
of the time,' says Mr. Wright, quoted by Croker, 'that on March 30, 1712, two hundred persons
were touched by Queen Anne.' Macaulay says that 'Charles the Second, in the course of his reign,
touched near a hundred thousand persons.... The expense of the ceremony was little less than
ten thousand pounds a year.' Macaulay's England, ch. xiv.

[137] See post, p. 91, note.

[138] Anecdotes, p. 10. BOSWELL.

[139] Johnson, writing of Addison's schoolmasters, says:--'Not to name the school or the masters
of men illustrious for literature is a kind of historical fraud, by which honest fame is injuriously
diminished. I would therefore trace him through the whole process of his education.' Johnson's
Works, vii. 418.

[140] Neither the British Museum nor the Bodleian Library has a copy.

[141] 'When we learned Propria qua maribus, we were examined in the Accidence; particularly
we formed verbs, that is, went through the same person in all the moods and tenses. This was
very difficult to me, and I was once very anxious about the next day, when this exercise was
to be performed in which I had failed till I was discouraged. My mother encouraged me, and
I proceeded better. When I told her of my good escape, "We often," said she, dear mother! "come
off best when we are most afraid." She told me that, once when she asked me about forming verbs
I said, "I did not form them in an ugly shape." "You could not," said she "speak plain; and
I was proud that I had a boy who was forming verbs" These little memorials soothe my mind.'
Annals, p. 22.

[142] 'This was the course of the school which I remember with pleasure; for I was indulged
and caressed by my master; and, I think, really excelled the rest.' Annals, p. 23.

[143] Johnson said of Hunter:--'Abating his brutality, he was a very good master;' post. March
21, 1772. Steele in the Spectator, No. 157, two years after Johnson's birth, describes these
savage tyrants of the grammar-schools. 'The boasted liberty we talk of,' he writes, 'is but
a mean reward for the long servitude, the many heartaches and terrors to which our childhood
is exposed in going through a grammar school.... No one who has gone through what they call
a great school but must remember to have seen children of excellent and ingenuous natures (as
has afterwards appeared in their manhood); I say no man has passed through this way of education
but must have seen an ingenuous creature expiring with shame, with pale looks, beseeching sorrow
and silent tears, throw up its honest eyes and kneel or its tender kneeds to an inexorable
blockhead to be forgiven the false quantity of a word in making a Latin verse.' Likely enough
Johnson's roughness was in part due to this brutal treatment; for Steele goes on to say:--'It
is wholly to this dreadful practise that we may attribute a certain hardiness and ferocity
which some men, though liberally educated, carry about them in all their behaviour. To be bred
like a gentleman, and punished like a malefactor, must, as we see it does, produce that illiberal
sauciness which we see sometimes in men of letters.'

[144] Johnson described him as 'a peevish and ill-tempered man,' and not so good a scholar
or teacher as Taylor made out. Once the boys perceived that he did not understand a part of
the Latin lesson; another time, when sent up to the upper-master to be punished, they had to
complain that when they 'could not get the passage,' the assistant would not help them. Annals,
pp. 26, 32.

[145] One of the contributors to the Athenian Letters. See Gent. Mag. liv. 276.

[146] Johnson, post, March 22, 1776, describes him as one 'who does not get drunk, for he is
a very pious man, but he is always muddy.'

[147] A tradition had reached Johnson through his school-fellow Andrew Corbet that Addison
had been at the school and had been the leader in a barring out. (Johnson's Works, vii. 419.)
Garrick entered the school about two years after Johnson left. According to Garrick's biographer,
Tom Davies (p. 3), 'Hunter was an odd mixture of the pedant and the sportsman. Happy was the
boy who could slily inform his offended master where a covey of partridges was to be found;
this notice was a certain pledge of his pardon.' Lord Campbell in his Lives of the Chief Justices,
ii. 279, says:--'Hunter is celebrated for having flogged seven boys who afterwards sat as judges
in the superior courts at Westminster at the same time. Among these were Chief Justice Wilmot,
Lord Chancellor Northington, Sir T. Clarke, Master of the Rolls, Chief Justice Willes, and
Chief Baron Parker. It is remarkable that, although Johnson and Wilmot were several years class-fellows
at Lichfield, there never seems to have been the slightest intercourse between them in after
life; but the Chief Justice used frequently to mention the Lexicographer as "a long, lank,
lounging boy, whom he distinctly remembered to have been punished by Hunter for idleness."
Lord Campbell blunders here. Northington and Clarke were from Westminster School (Campbell's
Chancellors, v. 176). The schoolhouse, famous though it was, was allowed to fall into decay.
A writer in the Gent. Mag. in 1794 (p. 413) says that 'it is now in a state of dilapidation,
and unfit for the use of either the master or boys.'

[148] Johnson's observation to Dr. Rose, on this subject, deserves to be recorded. Rose was
praising the mild treatment of children at school, at a time when flogging began to be less
practised than formerly: 'But then, (said Johnson,) they get nothing else: and what they gain
at one end, they lose at the other.' BURNEY. See post, under Dec. 17, 1775.

[149] This passage is quoted from Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773. Mr. Boyd had told Johnson
that Lady Errol did not use force or fear in educating her children; whereupon he replied,
'Sir, she is wrong,' and continued in the words of the text.

Gibbon in his Autobiography says:--'The domestic discipline of our ancestors has been relaxed
by the philosophy and softness of the age: and if my father remembered that he had trembled
before a stern parent, it was only to adopt with his son an opposite mode of behaviour.' Gibbon's
Works, i. 112. Lord Chesterfield writing to a friend on Oct. 18, 1752, says:--'Pray let my
godson never know what a blow or a whipping is, unless for those things for which, were he
a man, he would deserve them; such as lying, cheating, making mischief, and meditated malice.'
Chesterfield's Misc. Works, iv. 130.

[150] Johnson, however, hated anything that came near to tyranny in the management of children.
Writing to Mrs. Thrale, who had told him that she had on one occasion gone against the wish
of her nurses, he said:--'That the nurses fretted will supply me during life with an additional
motive to keep every child, as far as is possible, out of a nurse's power. A nurse made of
common mould will have a pride in overcoming a child's reluctance. There are few minds to which
tyranny is not delightful; power is nothing but as it is felt, and the delight of superiority
is proportionate to the resistance overcome.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 67.

[151] 'Sword, I will hallow thee for this thy deed.' 2 Henry VI, act iv. sc. 10. John Wesley's
mother, writing of the way she had brought up her children, boys and girls alike, says:--'When
turned a year old (and some before) they were taught to fear the rod, and to cry softly; by
which means they escaped abundance of correction they might otherwise have had.' Wesley's Journal,
i. 370.

[152] 'There dwelt at Lichfield a gentleman of the name of Butt, to whose house on holidays
he was ever welcome. The children in the family, perhaps offended with the rudeness of his
behaviour, would frequently call him the great boy, which the father once overhearing said:--'You
call him the great boy, but take my word for it, he will one day prove a great man.' Hawkins's
Johnson, p. 6.

[153] See post, March 22, 1776 and Johnson's visit to Birmingham in Nov. 1784.

[154] 'You should never suffer your son to be idle one minute. I do not call play, of which
he ought to have a good share, idleness; but I mean sitting still in a chair in total inaction;
it makes boys lazy and indolent.' Chesterfield's Misc. Works, iv. 248.

[155] The author of the Reliques.

[156] The summer of 1764.

[157] Johnson, writing of Paradise Lost, book ii. l. 879, says:--'In the history of Don Bellianis,
when one of the knights approaches, as I remember, the castle of Brandezar, the gates are said
to open, grating harsh thunder upon their brazen hinges.' Johnson's Works, v. 76. See post,
March 27, 1776, where 'he had with him upon a jaunt Il Palmerino d'Inghilterra.' Prior says
of Burke that 'a very favourite study, as he once confessed in the House of Commons, was the
old romances, Palmerin of England and Don Belianis of Greece, upon which he had wasted much
valuable time.' Prior's Burke, p. 9.

[158] Hawkins (Life, p. 2) says that the uncle was Dr. Joseph Ford 'a physician of great eminence.'
The son, Parson Ford, was Cornelius. In Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 15, 1773, Johnson mentions
an uncle who very likely was Dr. Ford. In Notes and Queries, 5th S. v. 13, it is shown that
by the will of the widow of Dr. Ford the Johnsons received L200 in 1722. On the same page the
Ford pedigree is given, where it is seen that Johnson had an uncle Cornelius. It has been stated
that 'Johnson was brought up by his uncle till his fifteenth year.' I understand Boswell to
say that Johnson, after leaving Lichfield School, resided for some time with his uncle before
going to Stourbridge.

[159] He is said to be the original of the parson in Hogarth's Modern Midnight Conversation.
BOSWELL.

In the Life of Fenton Johnson describes Ford as 'a clergyman at that time too well known, whose
abilities, instead of furnishing convivial merriment to the voluptuous and dissolute, might
have enabled him to excel among the virtuous and the wise.' Johnson's Works, viii. 57. Writing
to Mrs. Thrale on July 8, 1771, he says, 'I would have been glad to go to Hagley [close to
Stourbridge] for I should have had the opportunity of recollecting past times, and wandering
per montes notos et flumina nota, of recalling the images of sixteen, and reviewing my conversations
with poor Ford.' Piozzi Letters, i. 42. See also post, May 12, 1778.

[160] See post, April 20, 1781.

[161] As was likewise the Bishop of Dromore many years afterwards. BOSWELL.

[162] Mr. Hector informs me, that this was made almost impromptu, in his presence. BOSWELL.

[163] This he inserted, with many alterations, in the Gentleman's Magazine, 1743 [p. 378].
BOSWELL. The alterations are not always for the better. Thus he alters

'And the long honours of a lasting name'

into

'And fir'd with pleasing hope of endless fame.'

[164] Settle was the last of the city-poets; post, May 15, 1776.

[165] 'Here swells the shelf with Ogilby the great.' Dunciad, i. 141.

[166] Some young ladies at Lichfield having proposed to act The Distressed Mother, Johnson
wrote this, and gave it to Mr. Hector to convey it privately to them. BOSWELL. See post, 1747,
for The Distressed Mother. He told Mr. Langton, that 'his great period of study was from the
age of twelve to that of eighteen' (Ib. note). He told the King that his reading had later
on been hindered by ill-health (post, Feb. 1767).

[168] Hawkins (Life, p. 9) says that his father took him home, probably with a view to bring
him up to his own trade; for I have heard Johnson say that he himself was able to bind a book.
'It were better bind books again,' wrote Mrs. Thrale to him on Sept. 18, 1777, 'as you did
one year in our thatched summer-house.' Piozzi Letters, i. 375. It was most likely at this
time that he refused to attend his father to Uttoxeter market, for which fault he made atonement
in his old age (post, November, 1784).

[169] Perhaps Johnson had his own early reading in mind when he thus describes Pope's reading
at about the same age. 'During this period of his life he was indefatigably diligent and insatiably
curious; wanting health for violent, and money for expensive pleasures, and having excited
in himself very strong desires of intellectual eminence, he spent much of his time over his
books; but he read only to store his mind with facts and images, seizing all that his authors
presented with undistinguishing voracity, and with an appetite for knowledge too eager to be
nice.' Johnson's Works, viii. 239.

[170] Andrew Corbet, according to Hawkins. Corbet had entered Pembroke College in 1727. Dr.
Swinfen, Johnson's god-father, was a member of the College. I find the name of a Swinfen on
the books in 1728.

[171] In the Caution Book of Pembroke College are found the two following entries:--

'Oct. 31, 1728. Recd. then of Mr. Samuel Johnson Commr. of Pem. Coll. ye summ of seven Pounds
for his Caution, which is to remain in ye Hands of ye Bursars till ye said Mr. Johnson shall
depart ye said College leaving ye same fully discharg'd.

Recd. by me, John Ratcliff, Bursar.'

'March 26, 1740. At a convention of the Master and Fellows to settle the accounts of the Caution
it appear'd that the Persons Accounts underwritten stood thus at their leaving the College:

Caution not Repay'd Mr. Johnson L7  0  0 Battells not discharg'd Mr. Johnson L7  0  0

Mr. Carlyle is in error in describing Johnson as a servitor. He was a commoner as the above
entry shows. Though he entered on Oct. 31, he did not matriculate till Dec. 16. It was on Palm
Sunday of this same year that Rousseau left Geneva, and so entered upon his eventful career.
Goldsmith was born eleven days after Johnson entered (Nov. 10, 1728). Reynolds was five years
old. Burke was born before Johnson left Oxford.

[172] He was in his twentieth year. He was born on Sept. 18, 1709, and was therefore nineteen.
He was somewhat late in entering. In his Life of Ascham he says, 'Ascham took his bachelor's
degree in 1534, in the eighteenth year of his age; a time of life at which it is more common
now to enter the universities than to take degrees.' Johnson's Works, vi. 505. It was just
after Johnson's entrance that the two Wesleys began to hold small devotional meetings at Oxford.

[173] Builders were at work in the college during all his residence. 'July 16, 1728. About
a quarter of a year since they began to build a new chapel for Pembroke Coll. next to Slaughter
Lane.' Hearne's Remains, iii. 9.

[174] Athen. Oxon. edit. 1721, i. 627. BOSWELL.

[175] Johnson would oftener risk the payment of a small fine than attend his lectures.... Upon
occasion of one such imposition he said to Jorden:--"Sir, you have sconced [fined] me two pence
for non-attendance at a lecture not worth a penny." Hawkins's Johnson, p. 9. A passage in Whitefield's
Diary shows that the sconce was often greater. He once neglected to give in the weekly theme
which every Saturday had to be given to the tutor in the Hall 'when the bell rang.' He was
fined half-a-crown. Tyerman's Whitefield, i. 22. In my time (1855-8) at Pembroke College every
Saturday when the bell rang we gave in our piece of Latin prose--themes were things of the past.

[176] This was on Nov. 6, O.S., or Nov. 17, N.S.--a very early time for ice to bear. The first
mention of frost that I find in the newspapers of that winter is in the Weekly Journal for
Nov. 30, O.S.; where it is stated that 'the passage by land and water [i.e. the Thames] is
now become very dangerous by the snow, frost, and ice.' The record of meteorological observations
began a few years later.

[177] Oxford, 20th March, 1776. BOSWELL.

[178] Mr. Croker discovers a great difference between this account and that which Johnson gave
to Mr. Warton (post, under July 16, 1754). There is no need to have recourse, with Mr. Croker,
'to an ear spoiled by flattery.' A very simple explanation may be found. The accounts refer
to different hours of the same day. Johnson's 'stark insensibility' belonged to the morning,
and his 'beating heart' to the afternoon. He had been impertinent before dinner, and when he
was sent for after dinner 'he expected a sharp rebuke.'

[179] It ought to be remembered that Dr. Johnson was apt, in his literary as well as moral
exercises, to overcharge his defects. Dr. Adams informed me, that he attended his tutors lectures,
and also the lectures in the College Hall, very regularly. BOSWELL.

[180] Early in every November was kept 'a great gaudy [feast] in the college, when the Master
dined in publick, and the juniors (by an ancient custom they were obliged to comply with) went
round the fire in the hall.' Philipps's Diary, Notes and Queries, 2nd S., x. 443. We can picture
to ourselves among the juniors in November 1728, Samuel Johnson, going round the fire with
the others. Here he heard day after day the Latin grace which Camden had composed for the society.
'I believe I can repeat it,' Johnson said at St. Andrew's, 'which he did.' Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 19, 1773.

[181] Seven years before Johnson's time, on Nov. 5, 'Mr. Peyne, Bachelor of Arts, made an oration
in the hall suitable to the day.' Philipps's Diary.

[182] Boswell forgot Johnson's criticism on Milton's exercises on this day. 'Some of the exercises
on Gunpowder Treason might have been spared.' Johnson's Works, vii. 119.

[183] It has not been preserved. There are in the college library four of his compositions,
two of verse and two of prose. One of the copies of verse I give post, under July 16, 1754.
Both have been often printed. As his prose compositions have never been published I will give
one:--

              'Mea nec Falernae
Temperant Vites, neque Formiani Pocula Colles.'

'Quaedam minus attente spectata absurda videntur, quae tamen penitus perspecta rationi sunt
consentanea. Non enim semper facta per se, verum ratio occasioque faciendi sunt cogitanda.
Deteriora ei offerre cui meliorum ingens copia est, cui non ridiculum videtur? Quis sanus hirtam
agrestemque vestem Lucullo obtulisset, cujus omnia fere Serum opificia, omnia Parmae vellera,
omnes Tyri colores latuerunt? Hoc tamen fecisse Horatium non puduit, quo nullus urbanior, nullus
procerum convictui magis assuetus. Maecenatem scilicet norat non quaesiturum an meliora vina
domi posset bibere, verum an inter domesticos quenquam propensiori in se animo posset invenire.
Amorem, non lucrum, optavit patronus ille munifentissimus (sic). Pocula licet vino minus puro
implerentur, satis habuit, si hospitis vultus laetitia perfusus sinceram puramque amicitiam
testaretur. Ut ubi poetam carmine celebramus, non fastidit, quod ipse melius posset scribere,
verum poema licet non magni facit (sic), amorem scriptoris libenter amplectitur, sic amici
munuscula animum gratum testantia licet parvi sint, non nisi a superbo et moroso contemnentur.
Deos thuris fumis indigere nemo certe unquam credidit, quos tamen iis gratos putarunt, quia
homines se non beneficiorum immemores his testimoniis ostenderunt.'

JOHNSON.

[184] 'The accidental perusal of some Latin verses gained Addison the patronage of Dr. Lancaster,
afterwards Provost of Queen's College, by whose recommendation he was elected into Magdalen
College as a Demy' [a scholar]. Johnson's Works, vii. 420. Johnson's verses gained him nothing
but 'estimation.'

[185] He is reported to have said:--'The writer of this poem will leave it a question for posterity,
whether his or mine be the original.' Hawkins, p. 13.

[186] 'A Miscellany of Poems by several hands. Published by J. Husbands, A.M., Fellow of Pembroke
College, Oxon., Oxford. Printed by Leon. Lichfield, near the East-Gate, In the year MDCCXXXI.'
Among the subscribers I notice the name of Richard Savage, Esq., for twenty copies. It is very
doubtful whether he paid for one. Pope did not subscribe. Johnson's poem is thus mentioned
in the preface:--'The translation of Mr. Pope's Messiah was deliver'd to his Tutor as a College
Exercise by Mr. Johnson, a commoner of Pembroke College in Oxford, and 'tis hoped will be no
discredit to the excellent original.'

[187] See post, under July 16, 1754.

[188] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 6, 1773.

[189] Poetical Review of the Literary and Moral Character of Dr. Johnson, by John Courtenay,
Esq., M.P. BOSWELL.

[190] Hector, in his account of Johnson's early life, says:--'After a long absence from Lichfield,
when he returned, I was apprehensive of something wrong in his constitution which might either
impair his intellect or endanger his life; but, thanks to Almighty God, my fears have proved
false.' Hawkins, p. 8. The college books show that Johnson was absent but one week in the Long
Vacation of 1729. It is by no means unlikely that he went to Lichfield in that week to consult
Dr. Swinfen about his health. In that case his first attack, when he tried to overcome the
malady by frequently walking to Birmingham, must have been at an earlier date. In his time
students often passed the vacation at the University. The following table shows the number
of graduates and undergraduates in residence in Pembroke College at the end of each fourth
week, from June to December 1729:--

             Members in residence.
  June 20, 1729 . . . 54
  July 18,  "   . . . 34
  Aug. 15,  "   . . . 25
  Sept. 12, "   . . . 16
  Oct. 10,  "   . . . 30
  Nov. 7,   "   . . . 52
  Dec. 5,   "   . . . 49

At Christmas there were still sixteen men left in the college. That under a zealous tutor the
vacation was by no means a time of idleness is shown by a passage in Wesley's Journal, in which
he compares the Scotch Universities with the English. 'In Scotland,' he writes, 'the students
all come to their several colleges in November, and return home in May. So they may study five
months in the year, and lounge all the rest! O where was the common sense of those who instituted
such colleges? In the English colleges everyone may reside all the year, as all my pupils did;
and I should have thought myself little better than a highwayman if I had not lectured them
every day in the year but Sundays.' Wesley's Journal, iv. 75. Johnson lived to see Oxford empty
in the Long Vacation. Writing on Aug. 1, 1775, he said:--'The place is now a sullen solitude.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 294.

[191] Johnson, perhaps, was thinking of himself when he thus criticised the character of Sir
Roger de Coverley. 'The variable weather of the mind, the flying vapours of incipient madness,
which from time to time cloud reason without eclipsing it, it requires so much nicety to exhibit
that Addison seems to have been deterred from prosecuting his own design.' Johnson's Works,
vii. 431.

[192] Writing in his old age to Hector, he said,--'My health has been from my twentieth year
such as has seldom afforded me a single day of ease' (post, under March 21, 1782). Hawkins
writes, that he once told him 'that he knew not what it was to be totally free from pain.'
Hawkins, p. 396.

[193] See post, Oct. 27, 1784, note.

[194] In the Rambler, No. 85, he pointed out 'how much happiness is gained, and how much misery
escaped, by frequent and violent agitation of the body.' See post, July 21, 1763, for his remedies
against melancholy.

[195] Thirty-two miles in all. Southey mentions that in 1728, the Wesleys, to save the more
money for the poor, began to perform their journeys on foot. He adds,--'It was so little the
custom in that age for men in their rank of life to walk any distance, as to make them think
it a discovery that four or five-and-twenty miles are an easy and safe day's journey.' Southey's
Wesley, i. 52.

[196] Boswell himself suffered from hypochondria. He seems at times to boast of it, as Dogberry
boasted of his losses; so that Johnson had some reason for writing to him with seventy, as
if he were 'affecting it from a desire of distinction.' Post, July 2, 1776.

[197] Johnson on April 7, 1776, recommended Boswell to read this book, and again on July 2
of the same year.

[198] On Dec. 24, 1754, writing of the poet Collins, who was either mad or close upon it, he
said,--'Poor dear Collins! I have often been near his state.' Wooll's Warton, p. 229. 'I inherited,'
Johnson said, 'a vile melancholy from my father, which has made me mad all my life, at least
not sober.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 16, 1773. Reynolds recorded that 'what Dr. Johnson said
a few days before his death of his disposition to insanity was no new discovery to those who
were intimate with him.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 455. See also post Sept. 20, 1777.

[199] Ch. 44.

[200] 'Of the uncertainties of our present state, the most dreadful and alarming is the uncertain
continuance of reason.' Rasselas, ch. 43.

[201] Boswell refers to Mrs. Piozzi (Anec., pp. 77, 127), and Hawkins (Life, pp. 287-8).

[202] 'Quick in these seeds is might of fire and birth of heavenly place.' Morris, Aeneids,
vi. 730.

[203] On Easter Sunday 1716 during service some pieces of stone from the spire of St. Mary's
fell on the roof of the church. The congregation, thinking that the steeple was coming down,
in their alarm broke through the windows. Johnson, we may well believe, witnessed the scene.
The church was pulled down, and the new one was opened in Dec. 1721. Harwood's Lichfield, p. 460.

[204] 'Sept. 23, 1771. I have gone voluntarily to church on the week day but few times in my
life. I think to mend. April 9, 1773. I hope in time to take pleasure in public worship. April
6, 1777. I have this year omitted church on most Sundays, intending to supply the deficience
in the week. So that I owe twelve attendances on worship. I will make no more such superstitious
stipulations, which entangle the mind with unbidden obligations.' Pr. and Med. pp. 108, 121,
161. In the following passage in the Life of Milton, Johnson, no doubt, is thinking of himself:--'In
the distribution of his hours there was no hour of prayer, either solitary or with his household;
omitting public prayers he omitted all.... That he lived without prayer can hardly be affirmed;
his studies and meditations were an habitual prayer. The neglect of it in his family was probably
a fault for which he condemned himself, and which he intended to correct, but that death as
too often happens, intercepted his reformation.' Johnson's Works, vii. 115. See post, Oct.
10, 1779. Whitefield records:--'I had no sooner received the sacrament publicly on a week-day
at St. Mary's, but I was set up as a mark for all the polite students that knew me to shoot
at. By this they knew that I was commenced Methodist, for though there is a sacrament at the
beginning of every term, at which all, especially the seniors, are by statute obliged to be
present, yet so dreadfully has that once faithful city played the harlot, that very few masters,
and no undergraduates but the Methodists attended upon it. I daily underwent some contempt
at college. Some have thrown dirt at me; others by degrees took away their pay from me.' Tyerman's
Whitefield, i. 19. Story, the Quaker, visiting Oxford in 1731, says, 'Of all places wherever
I have been the scholars of Oxford were the rudest, most giddy, and unruly rabble, and most
mischievous.' Story's Journal, p. 675.

[206] John Wesley, who was also at Oxford, writing of about this same year, says:--'Meeting
now with Mr. Law's Christian Perfection and Serious Call the light flowed in so mightily upon
my soul that everything appeared in a new view.' Wesley's Journal, i. 94. Whitefield writes:--'Before
I went to the University, I met with Mr. Law's Serious Call, but had not then money to purchase
it. Soon after my coming up to the University, seeing a small edition of it in a friend's hand
I soon procured it. God worked powerfully upon my soul by that and his other excellent treatise
upon Christian perfection.' Tyerman's Whitefield, i. 16. Johnson called the Serious Call 'the
finest piece of hortatory theology in any language;' post, 1770. A few months before his death
he said:--'William Law wrote the best piece of parenetic divinity; but William Law was no reasoner;'
post, June 9, 1784. Law was the tutor of Gibbon's father, and he died in the house of the historian's
aunt. In describing the Serious Call Gibbon says:--'His precepts are rigid, but they are founded
on the gospel; his satire is sharp, but it is drawn from the knowledge of human life; and many
of his portraits are not unworthy of the pen of La Bruyere. If he finds a spark of piety in
his reader's mind he will soon kindle it to a flame.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 21.

[207] Mrs. Piozzi has given a strange fantastical account of the original of Dr. Johnson's
belief in our most holy religion. 'At the age of ten years his mind was disturbed by scruples
of infidelity, which preyed upon his spirits, and made him very uneasy, the more so, as he
revealed his uneasiness to none, being naturally (as he said) of a sullen temper, and reserved
disposition. He searched, however, diligently, but fruitlessly, for evidences of the truth
of revelation; and, at length, recollecting a book he had once seen [I suppose at five years
old] in his father's shop, intitled De veritate Religionis, etc., he began to think himself
highly culpable for neglecting such a means of information, and took himself severely to task
for this sin, adding many acts of voluntary, and, to others, unknown penance. The first opportunity
which offered, of course, he seized the book with avidity; but, on examination, not finding
himself scholar enough to peruse its contents, set his heart at rest; and not thinking to enquire
whether there were any English books written on the subject, followed his usual amusements
and considered his conscience as lightened of a crime. He redoubled his diligence to learn
the language that contained the information he most wished for; but from the pain which guilt
[namely having omitted to read what he did not understand,] had given him, he now began to
deduce the soul's immortality [a sensation of pain in this world being an unquestionable proof
of existence in another], which was the point that belief first stopped at; and from that moment
resolving to be a Christian, became one of the most zealous and pious ones our nation ever
produced.' Anecdotes, p. 17.

This is one of the numerous misrepresentations of this lively lady, which it is worth while
to correct; for if credit should be given to such a childish, irrational, and ridiculous statement
of the foundation of Dr. Johnson's faith in Christianity, how little credit would be due to
it. Mrs. Piozzi seems to wish, that the world should think Dr. Johnson also under the influence
of that easy logick, Stet pro ratione voluntas. BOSWELL.

[208] In his Life of Milton, writing of Paradise Lost, he says:--'But these truths are too
important to be new; they have been taught to our infancy; they have mingled with our solitary
thoughts and familiar conversations, and are habitually interwoven with the whole texture of
life.' Johnson's Works, vii. 134.

[209] Acts xvi. 30.

[210] Sept. 7, Old Style, or Sept. 18, New Style.

[211] 'He that peruses Shakespeare looks round alarmed, and starts to find himself alone.'
Johnson's Works, v. 71. 'I was many years ago so shocked by Cordelia's death, that I know not
whether I ever endured to read again the last scenes of the play till I undertook to revise
them as an editor.' Ib. p. 175.

[212] He told Mr. Windham that he had never read through the Odyssey completely. Windham's
Diary, p. 17. At college, he said, he had been 'very idle and neglectful of his studies.' Ib.

[213] 'It may be questioned whether, except his Bible, he ever read a book entirely through.
Late in life, if any man praised a book in his presence, he was sure to ask, 'Did you read
it through?' If the answer was in the affirmative, he did not seem willing to believe it.'
Murphy's Johnson, p. 12. Nevertheless in Murphy's statement there is some truth. See what has
been just stated by Boswell, that 'he hardly ever read any poem to an end,' and post, April
19, 1773 and June 15, 1784. To him might be applied his own description of Barretier:--'He
had a quickness of apprehension and firmness of memory which enabled him to read with incredible
rapidity, and at the same time to retain what he read, so as to be able to recollect and apply
it. He turned over volumes in an instant, and selected what was useful for his purpose.' Johnson's
Works, vi. 390.

[214] See post, June 15, 1784. Mr. Windham (Diary, p. 17) records the following 'anecdote of
Johnson's first declamation at college; having neglected to write it till the morning of his
being (sic) to repeat it, and having only one copy, he got part of it by heart while he was
walking into the hall, and the rest he supplied as well as he could extempore.' Mrs. Piozzi,
recording the same ancedote, says that 'having given the copy into the hand of the tutor who
stood to receive it as he passed, he was obliged to begin by chance, and continue on how he
could.... "A prodigious risk, however," said some one. "Not at all," exclaims Johnson, "no
man, I suppose, leaps at once into deep water who does not know how to swim."' Piozzi's Anec.
p. 30.

[215] He told Dr. Burney that he never wrote any of his works that were printed, twice over.
Dr. Burney's wonder at seeing several pages of his Lives of the Poets, in Manuscript, with
scarce a blot or erasure, drew this observation from him. MALONE. The Ramblers were written
in haste as the moment pressed, without even being read over by him before they were printed
(post, beginning of 1750). In the second edition, however, he made corrections. 'He composed
Rasselas in the evenings of one week' (post, under January, 1759). 'The False Alarm was written
between eight o'clock on Wednesday night and twelve o'clock on Thursday night.' Piozzi's Anec.,
p. 41. 'The Patriot' he says, 'was called for on Friday, was written on Saturday' (post, Nov.
26, 1774).

[216] 'When Mr. Johnson felt his fancy, or fancied he felt it, disordered, his constant recurrence
was to the study of arithmetic.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 77. 'Ethics, or figures, or metaphysical
reasoning, was the sort of talk he most delighted in;' ib. p. 80. See post, Sept. 24, 1777.

[217] 'Sept. 18, 1764, I resolve to study the Scriptures; I hope in the original languages.
640 verses every Sunday will nearly comprise the Scriptures in a year.' Pr. and Med. p. 58.
'1770, 1st Sunday after Easter. The plan which I formed for reading the Scriptures was to read
600 verses in the Old Testament, and 200 in the New, every week;' ib. p. 100.

[218] 'August 1, 1715. This being the day on which the late Queen Anne died, and on which George,
Duke and Elector of Brunswick, usurped the English throne, there was very little rejoicing
in Oxford.... There was a sermon at St. Marie's by Dr. Panting, Master of Pembroke.... He is
an honest gent. His sermon took no notice, at most very little, of the Duke of Brunswick.'
Hearne's Remains, ii. 6.

[219] The outside wall of the gateway-tower forms an angle with the wall of the Master's house,
so that any one sitting by the open window and speaking in a strong emphatic voice might have
easily been overheard.

[220] Goldsmith did go to Padua, and stayed there some months. Forster's Goldsmith, i. 71.

[221] I had this anecdote from Dr. Adams, and Dr. Johnson confirmed it. Bramston, in his Man
of Taste, has the same thought: 'Sure, of all blockheads, scholars are the worst.' BOSWELL.
Johnson's meaning, however, is, that a scholar who is a blockhead must be the worst of all
blockheads, because he is without excuse. But Bramston, in the assumed character of an ignorant
coxcomb, maintains that all scholars are blockheads on account of their scholarship. J. BOSWELL,
JUN. There is, I believe, a Spanish proverb to the effect that, 'to be an utter fool a man
must know Latin.' A writer in Notes and Queries (5th S. xii. 285) suggests that Johnson had
in mind Acts xvii. 21.

[222] It was the practice in his time for a servitor, by order of the Master, to go round to
the rooms of the young men, and knocking at the door to enquire if they were within; and if
no answer was returned to report them absent. Johnson could not endure this intrusion, and
would frequently be silent, when the utterance of a word would have ensured him from censure,
and would join with others of the young men in the college in hunting, as they called it, the
servitor who was thus diligent in his duty, and this they did with the noise of pots and candlesticks,
singing to the tune of Chevy Chase the words in the old ballad,--

'To drive the deer with hound and horn!' Hawkins, p. 12. Whitefield, writing of a few years
later, says:--'At this time Satan used to terrify me much, and threatened to punish me if I
discovered his wiles. It being my duty, as servitor, in my turn to knock at the gentlemen's
rooms by ten at night, to see who were in their rooms, I thought the devil would appear to
me every stair I went up.' Tyerman's Whitefield, i. 20.

[223] See post, June 12, 1784.

[224] Perhaps his disregard of all authority was in part due to his genius, still in its youth.
In his Life of Lyttelton he says:--'The letters [Lyttelton's Persian Letters] have something
of that indistinct and headstrong ardour for liberty which a man of genius always catches when
he enters the world, and always suffers to cool as he passes forward.' Johnson's Works, viii. 488.

[225] Dr. Hall [formerly Master of the College] says, 'Certainly not all.' CROKER.

[226] 'I would leave the interest of the fortune I bequeathed to a college to my relations
or my friends for their lives. It is the same thing to a college, which is a permanent society,
whether it gets the money now or twenty years hence; and I would wish to make my relations
or friends feel the benefit of it;' post, April 17, 1778. Hawkins (Life, p. 582,) says that
'he meditated a devise of his house to the corporation of that city for a charitable use, but,
it being freehold he said, "I cannot live a twelvemonth, and the last statute of Mortmain stands
in my way."' The same statute, no doubt, would have hindered the bequest to the College.

[227] Garrick refused to act one of Hawkins's plays. The poet towards the end of a long letter
which he signed,--'Your much dissatisfied humble servant,' said:--'After all, Sir, I do not
desire to come to an open rupture with you. I wish not to exasperate, but to convince; and
I tender you once more my friendship and my play.' Garrick Corres. ii. 8. See post, April 9, 1778.

[228] See Nash's History of Worcestershire, vol. i. p. 529. BOSWELL. To the list should be
added, Francis Beaumont, the dramatic writer; Sir Thomas Browne, whose life Johnson wrote;
Sir James Dyer, Chief Justice of the King's Bench, Lord Chancellor Harcourt, John Pym, Francis
Rous, the Speaker of Cromwell's parliament, and Bishop Bonner. WRIGHT. Some of these men belonged
to the ancient foundation of Broadgates Hall, which in 1624 was converted into Pembroke College.
It is strange that Boswell should have passed over Sir Thomas Browne's name. Johnson in his
life of Browne says that he was 'the first man of eminence graduated from the new college,
to which the zeal or gratitude of those that love it most can wish little better than that
it may long proceed as it began.' Johnson's Works, vi. 476. To this list Nash adds the name
of the Revd. Richard Graves, author of The Spiritual Quixote, who took his degree of B.A. on
the same day as Whitefield, whom he ridiculed in that romance.

[229] See post, Oct. 6, 1769, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773.

[230] In his Life of Shenstone he writes:--'From school Shenstone was sent to Pembroke College
in Oxford, a society which for half a century has been eminent for English poetry and elegant
literature. Here it appears that he found delight and advantage; for he continued his name
in the book ten years, though he took no degree.' Johnson's Works, viii. 408. Johnson's name
would seem to have been in like manner continued for more than eleven years, and perhaps for
the same reasons. (Ante, p. 58 note.) Hannah More was at Oxford in June 1782, during one of
Johnson's visits to Dr. Adams. 'You cannot imagine,' she writes, 'with what delight Dr. Johnson
showed me every part of his own college.... After dinner he begged to conduct me to see the
college; he would let no one show it me but himself. "This was my room; this Shenstone's."
Then, after pointing out all the rooms of the poets who had been of his college, "In short,"
said he, "we were a nest of singing-birds. Here we walked, there we played at cricket." [It
may be doubted whether he ever played.] He ran over with pleasure the history of the juvenile
days he passed there. When we came into the Common Room, we spied a fine large print of Johnson,
framed and hung up that very morning, with this motto: "And is not Johnson ours, himself a
host;" under which stared you in the face, "From Miss More's Sensibility"' Hannah More's Memoirs,
i. 261. At the end of 'the ludicrous analysis of Pocockius' quoted by Johnson in the Life of
Edmund Smith are the following lines:--'Subito ad Batavos proficiscor, lauro ab illis donandus.
Prius vero Pembrochienses voco ad certamen poeticum.' Smith was at Christ Church. He seems
to be mocking the neighbouring 'nest of singing-birds.' Johnson's Works, vii. 381.

[231] Taylor matriculated on Feb. 24, 1729. Mr. Croker in his note has confounded him with
another John Taylor who matriculated more than a year later. Richard West, writing of Christ
Church in 1735, says:--'Consider me very seriously here in a strange country, inhabited by
things that call themselves Doctors and Masters of Arts; a country flowing with syllogisms
and ale, where Horace and Virgil are equally unknown.' Gray's Letters, ii. I.

[232]

'Si toga sordidula est et rupta
  calceus alter
Pelle patet.'
'Or if the shoe be ript, or patches put.'

Dryden, Juvenal, iii. 149.

Johnson in his London, in describing 'the blockhead's insults,' while he mentions 'the tattered
cloak,' passes over the ript shoe. Perhaps the wound had gone too deep to his generous heart
for him to bear even to think on it.

[233] 'Yet some have refused my bounties, more offended with my quickness to detect their wants
than pleased with my readiness to succour them.' Rasselas, ch. 25. 'His [Savage's] distresses,
however afflictive, never dejected him; in his lowest state he wanted not spirit to assert
the natural dignity of wit, and was always ready to repress that insolence which the superiority
of fortune incited; ... he never admitted any gross familiarities, or submitted to be treated
otherwise than as an equal.... His clothes were worn out; and he received notice that at a
coffee-house some clothes and linen were left for him.... But though the offer was so far generous,
it was made with some neglect of ceremonies, which Mr. Savage so much resented that he refused
the present, and declined to enter the house till the clothes that had been designed for him
were taken away.' Johnson's Works, viii. 161 and 169.

[234]

'Haud facile emergunt quorum
  virtutibus obstat
Res angusta domi.'

Juvenal, Sat. iii. 164.

Paraphrased by Johnson in his London, 'Slow rises worth by poverty depressed.'

[235] Cambridge thirty-six years later neglected Parr as Oxford neglected Johnson. Both these
men had to leave the University through poverty. There were no open scholarships in those days.

[236] Yet his college bills came to only some eight shillings a week. As this was about the
average amount of an undergraduate's bill it is clear that, so far as food went, he lived,
in spite of Mr. Carlyle's assertion, as well as his fellow-students.

[237] Mr. Croker states that 'an examination of the college books proves that Johnson, who
entered on the 31st October, 1728, remained there, even during the vacations, to the 12th December,
1729, when he personally left the college, and never returned--though his name remained on
the books till 8th October, 1731.' I have gone into this question at great length in my Dr.
Johnson: His Friends and His Critics, p. 329. I am of opinion that Mr. Croker's general conclusion
is right. The proof of residence is established, and alone established, by the entries in the
buttery books. Now these entries show that Johnson, with the exception of the week in October
1729 ending on the 24th, was in residence till December 12, 1729. He seems to have returned
for a week in March 1730, and again for a week in the following September. On three other weeks
there is a charge against him of fivepence in the books. Mr. Croker has made that darker which
was already dark enough by confounding, as I have shewn, two John Taylors who both matriculated
at Christ Church. Boswell's statement no doubt is precise, but in this he followed perhaps
the account given by Hawkins. He would have been less likely to discover Hawkins's error from
the fact that, as Johnson's name was for about three years on the College books, he was so
long, in name at least, a member of the College. Had Boswell seen Johnson's letter to Mr. Hickman,
quoted by Mr. Croker (Croker's Boswell, p. 20), he would at once have seen that Johnson could
not have remained at college for a little more than three years. For within three years all
but a day of his entrance at Pembroke, he writes to Mr. Hickman from Lichfield, 'As I am yet
unemployed, I hope you will, if anything should offer, remember and recommend, Sir, your humble
servant, Sam. Johnson.'

In Boswell's Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides (Aug. 15, 1773) there is a very perplexing passage
bearing on Johnson's residence at College. 'We talked of Whitefield. He said he was at the
same college with him, and knew him before he began to be better than other people.' Now Johnson,
as Boswell tells us, read this journal in manuscript. The statement therefore seems to be well-established
indeed. Yet Whitefield did not matriculate till Nov. 7, 1732, a full year after Johnson, according
to Boswell, had left Oxford. We are told that, when Johnson was living at Birmingham, he borrowed
Lobo's Abyssinia from the library of Pembroke College. It is probable enough that a man who
frequently walked from Lichfield to Birmingham and back would have trudged all the way to Oxford
to fetch the book. In that case he might have seen Whitefield. But Thomas Warton says that
'the first time of his being at Oxford after quitting the University was in 1754' (post, under
July 16, 1754).

[238] 'March 16, 1728-9. Yesterday in a Convocation Mr. Wm. Jorden of Pembroke Coll. was elected
the Univ. of Oxford rector of Astocke in com. Wilts (which belongs to a Roman Catholic family).'
Hearne's Remains, iii. 17. His fellowship was filled up on Dec. 23, 1730. Boswell's statement
therefore is inaccurate. If Johnson remained at college till Nov. 1731, he would have really
been for at least ten months Adams's pupil. We may assume that as his name remained on the
books after Jorden left so he was nominally transferred to Adams. It is worthy of notice that
Thomas Warton, in the account that he gives of Johnson's visit to Oxford in 1754, says:--'He
much regretted that his first tutor was dead.'

[239] According to Hawkins (Life, pp. 17, 582 and post, Dec. 9, 1784) Johnson's father was
at one time a bankrupt. Johnson, in the epitaph that he wrote for him (post, Dec. 2, 1784)
describes him as 'bibliopola admodum peritus,' but 'rebus adversis diu conflictatus.' He certainly
did not die a bankrupt, as is shown by his leaving property to his widow and son, and also
by the following MS. letter, that is preserved with two others of the same kind in Pembroke
College.

Ashby, April 19, 1736.

Good Sr.,

I must truble you again, my sister who desiurs her survis to you, & begs you will be so good
if you can to pravale with Mr. Wumsley to paye you the little money due to her you may have
an opertunity to speak to him & it will be a great truble for me to have a jerney for it when
if he pleasd he might paye it you, it is a poore case she had but little left by Mr. Johnson
but his books (not but he left her all he had) & those sold at a poore reat, and be kept out
of so small a sume by a gentleman so well able to paye, if you will doe yr best for the widow
will be varey good in you, which will oblige yr reall freund JAMES BATE.

To Mr. John Newton

a Sider Seller at Litchfield.

Pd. L5 to Mr. Newton.

In another hand is written,

To Gilbert Walmesley Esq.

at Lichfield.

And in a third hand,

Pd. L5 to Mr. Newton.

The exact amount claimed, as is Shewn by the letter, dated Jan. 31, 1735, was L5 6s. 4d. There
is a yet earlier letter demanding payment of L5 6s. 4d. as 'due to me' for books, signed D.
Johnson, dated Swarkstone, Aug. 21, 1733. It must be the same account. Perhaps D. Johnson was
the executor. He writes from Ashby, where Michael Johnson had a branch business. But I know
of no other mention of him or of James Bate. John Newton was the father of the Bishop of Bristol.
Post, June 3,1784, and Bishop Newton's Works, i. I.

[240] Johnson, in a letter to Dr. Taylor, dated Aug. 18, 1763, advised him, in some trouble
that he had with his wife, 'to consult our old friend Mr. Howard. His profession has acquainted
him with matrimonial law, and he is in himself a cool and wise man.' Notes and Queries, 6th
S. v. 342. See post, March 20, 1778, for mention of his son.

[241] See post, Dec. 1, 1743, note. Robert Levett, made famous by Johnson's lines (post, Jan.
20, 1782), was not of this family.

[242] Mr. Warton informs me, 'that this early friend of Johnson was entered a Commoner of Trinity
College, Oxford, aged seventeen, in 1698; and is the authour of many Latin verse translations
in the Gent. Mag. (vol. xv. 102). One of them is a translation of:

'My time, O ye Muses, was happily spent.' &c.

He died Aug, 3, 1751, and a monument to his memory has been erected in the Cathedral of Lichfield,
with an inscription written by Mr. Seward, one of the Prebendaries. BOSWELL.

[243] Johnson's Works, vii. 380.

[244] See post, 1780, note at end of Mr. Langton's 'Collection.'

[245] See post, 1743.

[246] See post April 24, 1779.

[247] Hawkins (Life, p. 61) says that in August, 1738 (? 1739), Johnson went to Appleby, in
Leicestershire, to apply for the mastership of Appleby School. This was after he and his wife
had removed to London. It is likely that he visited Ashbourne.

[248] 'Old Meynell' is mentioned, post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's 'Collection,' as the author
of 'the observation, "For anything I see, foreigners are fools;"' and 'Mr. Meynell,' post,
April 1, 1779, as saying that 'The chief advantage of London is, that a man is always so near
his burrow.'

[249] See post, under March 16, 1759, note, and April 21, 1773. Mr. Alleyne Fitzherbert was
created Lord St. Helens.

[250] See post, 1780, end of Mr. Langton's 'Collection.'

[251] Johnson, writing to Dr. Taylor on July 31, 1756, said, 'I find myself very unwilling
to take up a pen, only to tell my friends that I am well, and indeed I never did exchange letters
regularly but with dear Miss Boothby.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 304. At the end of the
Piozzi Letters are given some of his letters to her. They were republished together with her
letters to him in An Account of the Life of Dr. Samuel Johnson, 1805.

[252] The words of Sir John Hawkins, P. 316. BOSWELL. 'When Mr. Thrale once asked Johnson which
had been the happiest period of his past life, he replied, "it was that year in which he spent
one whole evening with Molly Aston. That, indeed," said he, "was not happiness, it was rapture;
but the thoughts of it sweetened the whole year." I must add that the evening alluded to was
not passed tete-a-tete, but in a select company of which the present Lord Kilmorey was one.
"Molly," says Dr. Johnson, "was a beauty and a scholar, and a wit and a whig; and she talked
all in praise of liberty; and so I made this epigram upon her--She was the loveliest creature
I ever saw--

'Liber ut esse velim suasisti
   pulchra Maria;
Ut maneam liber--pulchra Maria
   vale.'

'Will it do this way in English, Sir,' said I:--

'Persuasions to freedom fall oddly
   from you;
If freedom we seek--fair Maria,
   adieu!'

'It will do well enough,' replied he; 'but it is translated by a lady, and the ladies never
loved Molly Aston.'" Piozzi's Anec., p. 157. See post, May 8, 1778.

[253] Sir Thomas Aston, Bart., who died in January, 1724-5, left one son, named Thomas also,
and eight daughters. Of the daughters, Catherine married Johnson's friend, the Hon. Henry Hervey
[post, 1737]; Margaret, Gilbert Walmsley. Another of these ladies married the Rev. Mr. Gastrell
[the man who cut down Shakspeare's mulberry tree, post, March 25, 1776]; Mary, or Molly Aston,
as she was usually called, became the wife of Captain Brodie of the navy. MALONE.

[254] Luke vi. 35.

[255] If this was in 1732 it was on the morrow of the day on which he received his share of
his father's property, ante, p. 80. A letter published in Notes and Queries, 6th S. x. 421,
shews that for a short time he was tutor to the son of Mr. Whitby of Heywood.

[256] Bishop Hurd does not praise Blackwall, but the Rev. Mr. Budworth, headmaster of the grammar
school at Brewood, who had himself been bred under Blackwall. MALONE. Mr. Nichols relates (post,
Dec. 1784) that Johnson applied for the post of assistant to Mr. Budworth.

[257] See Gent. Mag. Dec. 1784, p. 957. BOSWELL.

[258] See ante, p. 78.

[259] The patron's manners were those of the neighbourhood. Hutton, writing of this town in
1770, says,--'The inhabitants set their dogs at me merely because I was a stranger. Surrounded
with impassable roads, no intercourse with man to humanize the mind, no commerce to smooth
their rugged manners, they continue the boors of nature.' Life, of W. Hutton, p. 45.

[260] It appears from a letter of Johnson's to a friend, dated Lichfield, July 27, 1732, that
he had left Sir Wolstan Dixie's house recently, before that letter was written. MALONE.

[261] 'The despicable wretchedness of teaching,' wrote Carlyle, in his twenty-fourth year,
when he was himself a teacher, 'can be known only to those who have tried it, and to Him who
made the heart and knows it all. One meets with few spectacles more afflicting than that of
a young man with a free spirit, with impetuous though honourable feelings, condemned to waste
the flower of his life in such a calling; to fade in it by slow and sure corrosion of discontent;
and at last obscurely and unprofitably to leave, with an indignant joy, the miseries of a world
which his talents might have illustrated and his virtues adorned. Such things have been and
will be. But surely in that better life which good men dream of, the spirit of a Kepler or
a Milton will find a more propitious destiny.' Conway's Carlyle, p. 176.

[262] This newspaper was the Birmingham Journal. In the office of the Birmingham Daily Post
is preserved the number (No. 28) for May 21, 1733. It is believed to be the only copy in existence.
Warren is described by W. Hutton (Life, p. 77) as one of the 'three eminent booksellers' in
Birmingham in 1750. 'His house was "over against the Swan Tavern," in High Street; doubtless
in one of the old half-timbered houses pulled down in 1838 [1850].' Timmins's Dr. Johnson in
Birmingham, p. 4.

[263] 'In the month of June 1733, I find him resident in the house of a person named Jarvis,
at Birmingham.' Hawkins, p. 21. His wife's maiden name was Jarvis or Jervis.

[264] In 1741, Hutton, a runaway apprentice, arrived at Birmingham. He says,--'I had never
seen more than five towns, Nottingham, Derby, Burton, Lichfield and Walsall. The outskirts
of these were composed of wretched dwellings, visibly stamped with dirt and poverty. But the
buildings in the exterior of Birmingham rose in a style of elegance. Thatch, so plentiful in
other places, was not to be met with in this. The people possessed a vivacity I had never beheld.
I had been among dreamers, but now I saw men awake. Their very step along the street showed
alacrity. Every man seemed to know what he was about. The faces of other men seemed tinctured
with an idle gloom; but here with a pleasing alertness. Their appearance was strongly marked
with the modes of civil life.' Life of W. Hutton, p. 41.

[265] Hutton, in his account of the Birmingham riots of 1791, describing the destruction of
a Mr. Taylor's house, says,--'The sons of plunder forgot that the prosperity of Birmingham
was owing to a Dissenter, father to the man whose property they were destroying;' ib. p. 181.

[266] Johnson, it should seem, did not think himself ill-used by Warren; for writing to Hector
on April 15, 1755, he says,--'What news of poor Warren? I have not lost all my kindness for
him.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. iii. 301.

[267] That it is by no means an exact translation Johnson's Preface shows. He says that in
the dissertations alone an exact translation has been attempted. The rest of the work he describes
as an epitome.

[268] In the original, Segued.

[269] In the original, Zeila.

[270] Lobo, in describing a waterfall on the Nile, had said:--'The fall of this mighty stream
from so great a height makes a noise that may be heard to a considerable distance; but I could
not observe that the neighbouring inhabitants were at all deaf. I conversed with several, and
was as easily heard by them as I heard them,' p. 101.

[271] In the original, without religion, polity, or articulate language.

[272] See Rambler, No. 103. BOSWELL. Johnson in other passages insisted on the high value of
curiosity.

[274] Hawkins (p. 163) gives the following extract from Johnson's Annales:--'Friday, August
27 (1734), 10 at night. This day I have trifled away, except that I have attended the school
in the morning, I read to-night in Roger's sermoms. To-night I began the breakfast law (sic) anew.'

[275] May we not trace a fanciful similarity between Politian and Johnson? Huetius, speaking
of Paulus Pelissonius Fontanerius, says, '... in quo Natura, ut olim in Angelo Politiano, deformitarem
oris excellentis ingenii praestantia compensavit.' Comment, de reb. ad eum pertin. Edit. Amstel.
1718, p. 200. BOSWELL. In Paulus Pelissonius Fontanerius we have difficulty in detecting Mme.
de Sevigne's friend, Pelisson, of whom M. de Guilleragues used the phrase, 'qu'il abusait de
la permission qu'ont les hommes d'etre laids.' See Mme. de Sevigne's Letter, 5 Jan., 1674. CROKER.

[276] The book was to contain more than thirty sheets, the price to be two shillings and sixpence
at the time of subscribing, and two shillings and sixpence at the delivery of a perfect book
in quires. BOSWELL. 'Among the books in his library, at the time of his decease, I found a
very old and curious edition of the works of Politian, which appeared to belong to Pembroke
College, Oxford.' HAWKINS, p. 445. See post, Nov., 1784. In his last work he shews his fondness
for modern Latin poetry. He says:--'Pope had sought for images and sentiments in a region not
known to have been explored by many other of the English writers; he had consulted the modern
writers of Latin poetry, a class of authors whom Boileau endeavoured to bring into contempt,
and who are too generally neglected.' Johnson's Works, viii. 299.

[277] A writer in Notes and Queries, 1st S. xii. 266, says 'that he has a letter written by
Nathanael, in which he makes mention of his brother "scarcely using him with common civility,"
and says, "I believe I shall go to Georgia in about a fortnight!"' Nathanael died in Lichfield
in 1737; see post, Dec. 2, 1784, for his epitaph. Among the MSS. in Pembroke College Library
are bills for books receipted by Nath. Johnson and by Sarah Johnson (his mother). She writes
like a person of little education.

[278] Miss Cave, the grand-niece of Mr. Edward Cave, has obligingly shewn me the originals
of this and the other letters of Dr. Johnson, to him, which were first published in the Gent.
Mag. [lv. 3], with notes by Mr. John Nichols, the worthy and indefatigable editor of that valuable
miscellany, signed N.; some of which I shall occasionally transcribe in the course of this
work. BOSWELL. I was able to examine some of these letters while they were still in the possession
of one of Cave's collateral descendants, and I have in one or two places corrected errors of
transcription.

[279] Sir John Floyer's Treatise on Cold Baths. Gent. Mag. 1734, p. 197. BOSWELL. This letter
shews how uncommon a thing a cold bath was. Floyer, after recommending 'a general method of
bleeding and purging' before the patient uses cold bathing, continues, 'I have commonly cured
the rickets by dipping children of a year old in the bath every morning; and this wonderful
effect has encouraged me to dip four boys at Lichfield in the font at their baptism, and none
have suffered any inconvenience by it.' (For mention of Floyer, see ante, p. 42, and post,
March 27 and July 20, 1784.) Locke, in his Treatise on Education, had recommended cold bathing
for children. Johnson, in his review of Lucas's Essay on Waters (post, 1756), thus attacks
cold bathing:--'It is incident to physicians, I am afraid, beyond all other men, to mistake
subsequence for consequence. "The old gentleman," says Dr. Lucas, "that uses the cold bath,
enjoys in return an uninterrupted state of health." This instance does not prove that the cold
bath produces health, but only that it will not always destroy it. He is well with the bath,
he would have been well without it.' Literary Magazine, p. 229.

[280] A prize of fifty pounds for the best poem on 'Life, Death, Judgement, Heaven, and Hell.'
See Gent. Mag. vol. iv. p. 560. N. BOSWELL. 'Cave sometimes offered subjects for poems, and
proposed prizes for the best performers. The first prize was fifty pounds, for which, being
but newly acquainted with wealth, and thinking the influence of fifty pounds extremely great,
he expected the first authors of the kingdom to appear as competitors; and offered the allotment
of the prize to the universities. But when the time came, no name was seen among the writers
that had ever been seen before; the universities and several private men rejected the province
of assigning the prize.' Johnson's Works, vi. 432.

[281] I suspect that Johnson wrote 'the Castle Inn, Birmingham.'

[282] Mrs. Piozzi gives the following account of this little composition from Dr. Johnson's
own relation to her, on her inquiring whether it was rightly attributed to him:--'I think it
is now just forty years ago, that a young fellow had a sprig of myrtle given him by a girl
he courted, and asked me to write him some verses that he might present her in return. I promised,
but forgot; and when he called for his lines at the time agreed on--Sit still a moment, (says
I) dear Mund' [see post, May 7, 1773, for Johnson's 'way of contracting the names of his friends'],
'and I'll fetch them thee--So stepped aside for five minutes, and wrote the nonsense you now
keep such a stir about.' Anec. p. 34.

In my first edition I was induced to doubt the authenticity of this account, by the following
circumstantial statement in a letter to me from Miss Seward, of Lichfield:--'I know those verses
were addressed to Lucy Porter, when he was enamoured of her in his boyish days, two or three
years before he had seen her mother, his future wife. He wrote them at my grandfather's, and
gave them to Lucy in the presence of my mother, to whom he showed them on the instant. She
used to repeat them to me, when I asked her for the Verses Dr. Johnson gave her on a Sprig
of Myrtle, which he had stolen or begged from her bosom. We all know honest Lucy Porter to
have been incapable of the mean vanity of applying to herself a compliment not intended for
her.' Such was this lady's statement, which I make no doubt she supposed to be correct; but
it shews how dangerous it is to trust too implicitly to traditional testimony and ingenious
inference; for Mr. Hector has lately assured me that Mrs. Piozzi's account is in this instance
accurate, and that he was the person for whom Johnson wrote those verses, which have been erroneously
ascribed to Mr. Hammond.

I am obliged in so many instances to notice Mrs. Piozzi's incorrectness of relation, that I
gladly seize this opportunity of acknowledging, that however often, she is not always inaccurate.

The author having been drawn into a controversy with Miss Anna Seward, in consequence of the
preceding statement, (which may be found in the Gent. Mag. vol. liii. and liv.) received the
following letter from Mr. Edmund Hector, on the subject:

'DEAR SIR,

'I am sorry to see you are engaged in altercation with a Lady, who seems unwilling to be convinced
of her errors. Surely it would be more ingenuous to acknowledge, than to persevere.

'Lately, in looking over some papers I meant to burn, I found the original manuscript of the
Myrtle, with the date on it, 1731, which I have inclosed.

'The true history (which I could swear to) is as follows: Mr. Morgan Graves, the elder brother
of a worthy Clergyman near Bath, with whom I was acquainted, waited upon a lady in this neighbourhood,
who at parting presented him the branch. He shewed it me, and wished much to return the compliment
in verse. I applied to Johnson, who was with me, and in about half an hour dictated the verses
which I sent to my friend.

'I most solemnly declare, at that time Johnson was an entire stranger to the Porter family;
and it was almost two years after that I introduced him to the acquaintance of Porter, whom
I bought my cloaths of.

'If you intend to convince this obstinate woman, and to exhibit to the publick the truth of
your narrative, you are at liberty to make what use you please of this statement.

'I hope you will pardon me for taking up so much of your time. Wishing you multos et felices
annos, I shall subscribe myself,

'Your obliged humble servant,

'E. HECTOR.'

Birmingham, Jan. 9th, 1794.

BOSWELL. For a further account of Boswell's controversy with Miss Seward, see post, June 25, 1784.

[283] See post, beginning of 1744, April 28, 1783, and under Dec. 2, 1784.

[284] See post, near end of 1762, note.

[285] In the registry of St. Martin's Church, Birmingham, are the following entries:--'Baptisms,
Nov. 8, 1715, Lucy, daughter of Henry Porter. Jan. 29, 1717 [O. S.], Jarvis Henry, son of Henry
Porter. Burials, Aug. 3, 1734, Henry Porter of Edgbaston.' There were two sons; one, Captain
Porter, who died in 1763 (Croker's Boswell, p. 130), the other who died in 1783 (post, Nov.
29, 1783).

[286] According to Malone, Reynolds said that 'he had paid attention to Johnson's limbs; and
far from being unsightly, he deemed them well formed.' Prior's Malone, p. 175. Mrs. Piozzi
says:--'His stature was remarkably high, and his limbs exceedingly large; his features were
strongly marked, and his countenance particularly rugged; though the original complexion had
certainly been fair, a circumstance somewhat unusual; his sight was near, and otherwise imperfect;
yet his eyes, though of a light-grey colour, were so wild, so piercing, and at times so fierce,
that fear was, I believe, the first emotion in the hearts of all his beholders.' Piozzi's Anec.
p. 297. See post, end of the book, and Boswell's Hebrides, near the beginning.

[287] If Johnson wore his own hair at Oxford, it must have exposed him to ridicule. Graves,
the author of The Spiritual Quixote, tells us that Shenstone had the courage to wear his own
hair, though 'it often exposed him to the ill-natured remarks of people who had not half his
sense. After I was elected at All Souls, where there was often a party of loungers in the gateway,
on my expostulating with Mr. Shenstone for not visiting me so often as usual, he said, "he
was ashamed to face his enemies in the gate."'

[288] See post, 1739.

[289] Mrs. Johnson was born on Feb. 4, 1688-9. MALONE. She was married on July 9, 1735, in
St. Werburgh's Church, Derby, as is shewn by the following copy of the marriage register: '1735,
July 9, Mar'd Sam'll Johnson of ye parish of St Mary's in Litchfield, and Eliz'th Porter of
ye parish of St Phillip in Burmingham.' Notes and Queries, 4th S. vi. 44. At the time of their
marriage, therefore, she was forty-six, and Johnson only two months short of twenty-six.

[290] The author of the Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Dr. Johnson, 1785, p. 25, says:--'Mrs.
Porter's husband died insolvent, but her settlement was secured. She brought her second husband
about seven or eight hundred pounds, a great part of which was expended in fitting up a house
for a boarding-school.' That she had some money can be almost inferred from what we are told
by Boswell and Hawkins. How other-wise was Johnson able to hire and furnish a large house for
his school? Boswell says that he had but three pupils. Hawkins gives him a few more. 'His number,'
he writes (p. 36) 'at no time exceeded eight, and of those not all were boarders.' After nearly
twenty months of married life, when he went to London, 'he had,' Boswell says, 'a little money.'
It was not till a year later still that he began to write for the Gent. Mag. If Mrs. Johnson
had not money, how did she and her husband live from July 1735 to the spring of 1738? It could
scarcely have been on the profits made from their school. Inference, however, is no longer
needful, as there is positive evidence. Mr. Timmins in his Dr. Johnson in Birmingham (p. 4)
writes:--'My friend, Mr. Joseph Hill, says, A copy of an old deed which has recently come into
my hands, shews that a hundred pounds of Mrs. Johnson's fortune was left in the hands of a
Birmingham attorney named Thomas Perks, who died insolvent; and in 1745, a bulky deed gave
his creditors 7s. 4d. in the pound. Among the creditors for L100 were "Samuel Johnson, gent.,
and Elizabeth his wife, executors of the last will and testament of Harry Porter, late of Birmingham
aforesaid, woollen draper, deceased." Johnson and his wife were almost the only creditors who
did not sign the deed, their seals being left void. It is doubtful, therefore, whether they
ever obtained the amount of the composition L36 13s. 4d.'

[291] Sir Walter Scott has recorded Lord Auchinleck's 'sneer of most sovereign contempt,' while
he described Johnson as 'a dominie, monan auld dominie; he keeped a schule, and cau'd it an
acaadamy.' Croker's Boswell, p. 397, note.

[292] 'Edial is two miles west of Lichfield.' Harwood's Lichfield, p. 564.

[293] Johnson in more than one passage in his writings seems to have in mind his own days as
a schoolmaster. Thus in the Life of Milton he says:--'This is the period of his life from which
all his biographers seem inclined to shrink. They are unwilling that Milton should be degraded
to a schoolmaster; but, since it cannot be denied that he taught boys, one finds out that he
taught for nothing, and another that his motive was only zeal for the propagation of learning
and virtue; and all tell what they do not know to be true, only to excuse an act which no wise
man will consider as in itself disgraceful. His father was alive; his allowance was not ample;
and he supplied its deficiencies by an honest and useful employment.' Johnson's Works, vii.
75. In the Life of Blackmore he says:--'In some part of his life, it is not known when, his
indigence compelled him to teach a school, an humiliation with which, though it certainly lasted
but a little while, his enemies did not forget to reproach him, when he became conspicuous
enough to excite malevolence; and let it be remembered for his honour, that to have been once
a school-master is the only reproach which all the perspicacity of malice, animated by wit,
has ever fixed upon his private life.' Johnson's Works, viii. 36.

[294] In the original To teach. Seasons, Spring, l. 1149, Thomson is speaking, not of masters,
but of parents.

[295] In the Life of Milton, Johnson records his own experience. 'Every man that has ever undertaken
to instruct others can tell what slow advances he has been able to make, and how much patience
it requires to recall vagrant inattention, to stimulate sluggish indifference, and to rectify
absurd misapprehension.' Johnson's Works, vii. 76.

[296]

'As masters fondly soothe their
   boys to read
With cakes and sweetmeats.'

Francis, Hor. i. Sat. I. 25.

[297] As Johnson kept Garrick much in awe when present, David, when his back was turned, repaid
the restraint with ridicule of him and his dulcinea, which should be read with great abatement.
PERCY. He was not consistent in his account, for 'he told Mrs. Thrale that she was a little
painted puppet of no value at all.' 'He made out,' Mrs. Piozzi continues, 'some comical scenes,
by mimicking her in a dialogue he pretended to have overheard. I do not know whether he meant
such stuff to be believed or no, it was so comical. The picture I found of her at Lichfield
was very pretty, and her daughter said it was like. Mr. Johnson has told me that her hair was
eminently beautiful, quite blonde like that of a baby.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 148.

[301] See Gent. Mag., xxiv. 333.

[302] Mr. Colson was First Master of the Free School at Rochester. In 1739 he was appointed
Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge. MALONE. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 49) says that
'by Gelidus the philosopher (Rambler, No. 24), Johnson meant to represent Colson.'

[303] This letter is printed in the Garrick Corres. i. 2. There we read I doubt not. Hawkins
(Life, p. 43) states that Johnson and Garrick had soon exhausted their small stock of money
in London, and that on Garrick's suggestion they applied for a loan to Wilcox, of whom he had
a slight knowledge. 'Representing themselves to him, as they really were, two young men, friends
and travellers from the same place, and just arrived with a view to settle here, he was so
moved with their artless tale, that on their joint note he advanced them all that their modesty
would permit them to ask (five pounds), which was soon after punctually repaid.' Perhaps Johnson
was thinking of himself when he recorded the advice given by Cibber to Fenton, 'When the tragedy
of Mariamne was shewn to Cibber, it was rejected by him, with the additional insolence of advising
Fenton to engage himself in some employment of honest labour, by which he might obtain that
support which he could never hope from his poetry. The play was acted at the other theatre;
and the brutal petulance of Cibber was confuted, though perhaps not shamed, by general applause.'
Johnson's Works, viii. 56. Adam Smith in the Wealth of Nations (Book i. ch. 2) says that 'the
difference between the most dissimilar characters, between a philosopher and a common street-porter,
for example, seems to arise not so much from nature, as from habit, custom, and education.'
Wilcox's shop was in Little Britain. Benjamin Franklin, in 1725, lodged next door to him. 'He
had,' says Franklin (Memoirs, i. 64), 'an immense collection of second-hand books. Circulating
libraries were not then in use; but we agreed that on certain reasonable terms I might read
any of his books.'

[305] Bernard Lintot (post, July 19, 1763) died Feb. 3, 1736. Gent. Mag. vi. 110. This, no
doubt, was his son.

[306] Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 195) says that being in London in 1746 he dined frequently with
a club of officers, where they had an excellent dinner at ten-pence. From what he adds it is
clear that the tavern-keeper made his profit on the wine. At Edinburgh, four years earlier,
he and his fellow-students used to get 'at four-pence a-head a very good dinner of broth and
beef, and a roast and potatoes every day, with fish three or four times a-week, and all the
small beer that was called for till the cloth was removed' (ib. p. 63). W. Hutton, who in 1750
opened a very small book-shop in Birmingham, for which he paid rent at a shilling a week, says
(Life of Hutton, p. 84): 'Five shillings a week covered every expense; as food, rent, washing,
lodging, &c.' He knew how to live wretchedly. I then had a severe illness, and left it off,
and I have never begun it again.' Somewhat the same account is given in Boswell's Hebrides,
Sept. 16, 1773. Roughly speaking, he seems to have been an abstainer from about 1736 to at
least as late as 1757, and from about 1765 to the end of his life. In 1751 Hawkins (Life, p.
286) describes him as drinking only lemonade 'in a whole night spent in festivity' at the Ivy
Lane Club. In 1757 he described himself 'as a hardened and shameless tea-drinker, who has for
twenty years diluted his meals with only tea' (Johnson's Works, vi. 21). It was, I believe,
in his visit to Oxford in 1759 that 'University College witnessed his drinking three bottles
of port without being the worse for it' (post, April 7, 1778). When he was living in the Temple
(between 1760-65) he had the frisk with Langton and Beauclerk when they made a bowl of Bishop
(post, 1753). On his birthday in 1760, he 'resolved to drink less strong liquors' (Pr. and
Med. p. 42). In 1762 on his visit to Devonshire he drank three bottles of wine after supper.
This was the only time Reynolds had seen him intoxicated. (Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 161).
In 1763 he affected Boswell's nerves by keeping him up late to drink port with him (post, July
14, 1763). On April 21, 1764, he records: 'From the beginning of this year I have in some measure
forborne excess of strong drink' (Pr. and Med. p. 51). On Easter Sunday he records: 'Avoided
wine' (id. p. 55). On March 1, 1765, he is described at Cambridge as 'giving Mrs. Macaulay
for his toast, and drinking her in two bumpers.' It was about this time that he had the severe
illness (post, under Oct. 17, 1765, note). In Feb. 1766, Boswell found him no longer drinking
wine. He shortly returned to it again; for on Aug. 2, 1767, he records, 'I have for some days
forborne wine;' and on Aug. 17, 'By abstinence from wine and suppers I obtained sudden and
great relief' (Pr. and Med. pp. 73, 4). According to Hawkins, Johnson said:--'After a ten years'
forbearance of every fluid except tea and sherbet, I drank one glass of wine to the health
of Sir Joshua Reynolds on the evening of the day on which he was knighted' (Hawkins's Johnson's
Works (1787), xi. 215). As Reynolds was knighted on April 21, 1769 (Taylor's Reynolds, i. 321),
Hawkins's report is grossly inaccurate. In Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 16, 1773, and post, March
16, 1776, we find him abstaining. In 1778 he persuaded Boswell to be 'a water-drinker upon
trial' (post, April 28, 1778). On April 7, 1779, 'he was persuaded to drink one glass of claret
that he might judge of it, not from recollection.' On March 20, 1781, Boswell found that Johnson
had lately returned to wine. 'I drink it now sometimes,' he said, 'but not socially.' He seems
to have generally abstained however. On April 20, 1781, he would not join in drinking Lichfield
ale. On March 17, 1782, he made some punch for himself, by which in the night he thought 'both
his breast and imagination disordered' (Pr. and Med. p. 205). In the spring of this year Hannah
More urged him to take a little wine. 'I can't drink a little, child,' he answered; 'therefore
I never touch it' (H. More's Memoirs, i. 251). On July 1, 1784, Beattie, who met him at dinner,
says, 'he cannot be prevailed on to drink wine' (Beattie's Life, p. 316). On his death-bed
he refused any 'inebriating sustenance' (post, Dec. 1784). It is remarkable that writing to
Dr. Taylor on Aug. 5, 1773, he said:--'Drink a great deal, and sleep heartily;' and that on
June 23, 1776, he again wrote to him:--'I hope you presever in drinking. My opinion is that
I have drunk too little, and therefore have the gout, for it is of my own acquisition, as neither
my father had it nor my mother' (Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. pp. 422, 3). On Sept. 19, 1777
(post), he even 'owned that in his opinion a free use of wine did not shorten life.' Johnson
disapproved of fermented liquors only in the case of those who, like himself and Boswell, could
not keep from excess.

[308] Ofellus, or rather Ofella, is the 'rusticus, abnormis sapiens, crassaque Minerva' of
Horace's Satire, ii. 2. 3. What he teaches is briefly expressed in Pope's Imitation, ii. 2. 1:

'What, and how great, the virtue and the art To live on little with a cheerful heart (A doctrine
sage, but truly none of mine); Let's talk, my friends, but talk before we dine.'

In 1769 was published a worthless poem called The Art of Living in London; in which 'instructions
were given to persons who live in a garret, and spend their evenings in an ale-house.' Gent.
Mag. xxxix. 45. To this Boswell refers.

[309] 'Johnson this day, when we were by ourselves, observed how common it was for people to
talk from books; to retail the sentiments of others, and not their own; in short, to converse
without any originality of thinking. He was pleased to say, "You and I do not talk from books."'
Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 3, 1773.

[310] The passage to Ireland was commonly made from Chester.

[311] The honourable Henry Hervey, third son of the first Earl of Bristol, quitted the army
and took orders. He married a sister of Sir Thomas Aston, by whom he got the Aston Estate,
and assumed the name and arms of that family. Vide Collins's Peerage. BOSWELL.

[312] The following brief mention of Greenwich Park in 1750 is found in one of Miss Talbot's
Letters. 'Then when I come to talk of Greenwich--Did you ever see it? It was quite a new world
to me, and a very charming one. Only on the top of a most inaccessible hill in the park, just
as we were arrived at a view that we had long been aiming at, a violent clap of thunder burst
over our heads.'--Carter and Talbot Corres, i. 345.

[313] At the Oxford Commemoration of 1733 Courayer returned thanks in his robes to the University
for the honour it had done him two years before in presenting him with his degree. Dr. Johnson:
His Friends and his Critics, p. 94.

[314] This library was given by George IV to the British Museum. CROKER.

[315] Ovid, Meta. iii. 724.

[316] Act iii. sc. 8.

[317] Act i. sc. 1.

[318] Act ii. sc. 7.

[319] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 232 [Sept. 20, 1773]. BOSWELL.

[320] Johnson's letter to her of Feb. 6, 1759, shows that she was, at that time, living in
his house at Lichfield. Miss Seward (Letters, i. 116) says that 'she boarded in Lichfield with
his mother.' Some passages in other of his letters (Croker's Boswell, pp. 144, 145, 173) lead
me to think that she stayed on in this house till 1766, when she had built herself a house
with money left her by her brother.

[321] See post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[322] He could scarcely have solicited a worse manager. Horace Walpole writing in 1744 (Letters,
i. 332) says: 'The town has been trying all this winter to beat pantomimes off the stage very
boisterously. Fleetwood, the master of Drury-Lane, has omitted nothing to support them as they
supported his house. About ten days ago, he let into the pit great numbers of Bear-garden bruisers
(that is the term) to knock down everybody that hissed. The pit rallied their forces and drove
them out.'

[323] It was not till volume v. that Cave's name was given on the title-page. In volumes viii.
and ix., and volumes xii. to xvii. the name is Edward Cave, Jun. Cave in his examination before
the House of Lords on April 30, 1747, said:--'That he was concerned in the Gentleman's Magazine
at first with his nephew; and since the death of his nephew he has done it entirely himself.'
Parl. Hist. xiv. 59.

[324] Its sale, according to Johnson, was ten thousand copies. Post, April 25, 1778. So popular
was it that before it had completed its ninth year the fifth edition of some of the earliest
numbers was printed. Johnson's Works, v. 349. In the Life of Cave Johnson describes it as 'a
periodical pamphlet, of which the scheme is known wherever the English language is spoken.'
Ib. vi. 431.

[325] Yet the early numbers contained verses as grossly indecent as they were dull. Cave moreover
advertised indecent books for sale at St. John's Gate, and in one instance, at least, the advertisement
was in very gross language.

[326] See post, April 25, 1778.

[327] While in the course of my narrative I enumerate his writings, I shall take care that
my readers shall not be left to waver in doubt, between certainty and conjecture, with regard
to their authenticity; and, for that purpose, shall mark with an asterisk (*) those which he
acknowledged to his friends, and with a dagger (dagger) those which are ascertained to be his
by internal evidence. When any other pieces are ascribed to him, I shall give my reasons. BOSWELL.

[328] Hawkins says that 'Cave had few of those qualities that constitute the character of urbanity.
Upon the first approach of a stranger his practice was to continue sitting, and for a few minutes
to continue silent. If at any time he was inclined to begin the discourse, it was generally
by putting a leaf of the Magazine then in the press into the hand of his visitor and asking
his opinion of it. He was so incompetent a judge of Johnson's abilities that, meaning at one
time to dazzle him with the splendour of some of those luminaries in literature who favoured
him with their correspondence, he told him that, if he would in the evening be at a certain
alehouse in the neighbourhood of Clerkenwell, he might have a chance of seeing Mr. Browne and
another or two of the persons mentioned in the preceding note. [The note contained the names
of some of Cave's regular writers.] Johnson accepted the invitation; and being introduced by
Cave, dressed in a loose horseman's coat, and such a great bushy uncombed wig as he constantly
wore, to the sight of Mr. Browne, whom he found sitting at the upper end of a long table, in
a cloud of tobacco-smoke, had his curiosity gratified.' [Mr. Carlyle writes of 'bushy-wigged
Cave;' but it was Johnson whose wig is described, and not Cave's. On p. 327 Hawkins again mentions
his 'great bushy wig,' and says that 'it was ever nearly as impenetrable by a comb as a quickset
hedge.'] Hawkins's Johnson, pp. 45-50. Johnson, after mentioning Cave's slowness, says: 'The
same chillness of mind was observable in his conversation; he was watching the minutest accent
of those whom he disgusted by seeming inattention; and his visitant was surprised, when he
came a second time, by preparations to execute the scheme which he supposed never to have been
heard.' Johnson's Works, vi. 434.

[329] 'The first lines put one in mind of Casimir's Ode to Pope Urban:--

    "Urbane, regum maxime, maxime
    Urbane vatum."

The Polish poet was probably at that time in the hands of a man who had meditated the history
of the Latin poets.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 42.

[330] Cave had been grossly attacked by rival booksellers; see Gent. Mag., viii. 156. Hawkins
says (Life, p. 92), 'With that sagacity which we frequently observe, but wonder at, in men
of slow parts, he seemed to anticipate the advice contained in Johnson's ode, and forbore a
reply, though not his revenge.' This he gratified by reprinting in his own Magazine one of
the most scurrilous and foolish attacks.

[331] A translation of this Ode, by an unknown correspondent, appeared in the Magazine for
the month of May following:

  'Hail, URBAN! indefatigable man,
Unwearied yet by all thy useful toil!
  Whom num'rous slanderers assault in vain;
Whom no base calumny can put to foil.
  But still the laurel on thy learned brow
  Flourishes fair, and shall for ever grow.

  'What mean the servile imitating crew,
What their vain blust'ring, and their empty noise,
  Ne'er seek: but still thy noble ends pursue,
Unconquer'd by the rabble's venal voice.
  Still to the Muse thy studious mind apply,
  Happy in temper as in industry.

  'The senseless sneerings of an haughty tongue,
Unworthy thy attention to engage,
  Unheeded pass: and tho' they mean thee wrong,
By manly silence disappoint their rage.
  Assiduous diligence confounds its foes,
  Resistless, tho' malicious crouds oppose.

  'Exert thy powers, nor slacken in the course,
Thy spotless fame shall quash all false reports:
  Exert thy powers, nor fear a rival's force,
But thou shalt smile at all his vain efforts;
  Thy labours shall be crown'd with large success;
  The Muse's aid thy Magazine shall bless.

  'No page more grateful to th' harmonious nine
Than that wherein thy labours we survey;
  Where solemn themes in fuller splendour shine,
(Delightful mixture,) blended with the gay,
  Where in improving, various joys we find,
  A welcome respite to the wearied mind.

  'Thus when the nymphs in some fair verdant mead,
Of various flowr's a beauteous wreath compose,
  The lovely violet's azure-painted head
Adds lustre to the crimson-blushing rose.
  Thus splendid Iris, with her varied dye,
  Shines in the aether, and adorns the sky. BRITON.'

BOSWELL.

[332] 'I have some reason to think that at his first coming to town he frequented Slaughter's
coffee-house with a view to acquire a habit of speaking French, but he never could attain to
it. Lockman used the same method and succeeded, as Johnson himself once told me.' Hawkins's
Johnson, p. 516. Lockman is l'ilustre Lockman mentioned post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.
It was at 'Old Slaughter's Coffee-house, when a number of foreigners were talking loud about
little matters, that Johnson one evening said, "Does not this confirm old Meynell's observation,
For anything I see, foreigners are fools"?' post, ib.

[333] He had read Petrarch 'when but a boy;' ante, p. 57.

[334] Horace Walpole, writing of the year 1770, about libels, says: 'Their excess was shocking,
and in nothing more condemnable than in the dangers they brought on the liberty of the press.'
This evil was chiefly due to 'the spirit of the Court, which aimed at despotism, and the daring
attempts of Lord Mansfield to stifle the liberty of the press. His innovations had given such
an alarm that scarce a jury would find the rankest satire libellous.' Memoirs of the Reign
of George III, iv. 167. Smollett in Humphrey Clinker (published in 1771) makes Mr. Bramble
write, in his letter of June 2: 'The public papers are become the infamous vehicles of the
most cruel and perfidious defamation; every rancorous knave--every desperate incendiary, that
can afford to spend half-a-crown or three shillings, may skulk behind the press of a newsmonger,
and have a stab at the first character in the kingdom, without running the least hazard of
detection or punishment.' The scribblers who had of late shewn their petulance were not always
obscure. Such scurrilous but humorous pieces as Probationary Odes for the Laureateship, The
Rolliad, and Royal Recollections, which were all published while Boswell was writing The Life
of Johnson, were written, there can be little doubt, by men of position. In the first of the
three (p. 27) Boswell is ridiculed. He is made to say:--'I know Mulgrave is a bit of a poet
as well as myself; for I dined in company once where he dined that very day twelve-month.'
This evil of libelling had extended to America. Benjamin Franklin (Memoirs, i. 148), writing
in 1784, says that 'libelling and personal abuse have of late years become so disgraceful to
our country. Many of our printers make no scruple of gratifying the malice of individuals by
false accusations of the fairest characters.'

[335] Boswell perhaps refers to a book published in 1758, called The Case of Authors by Profession.
Gent. Mag. xxviii. 130. Guthrie applies the term to himself in the letter below.

[336] How much poetry he wrote, I know not: but he informed me, that he was the authour of
the beautiful little piece, The Eagle and Robin Redbreast, in the collection of poems entitled
The Union, though it is there said to be written by Archibald Scott, before the year 1600.
BOSWELL. Mr. P. Cunningham has seen a letter of Jos. Warton's which states that this poem was
written by his brother Tom, who edited the volume. CROKER.

[337] Dr. A. Carlyle in his Autobiography (p. 191) describes a curious scene that he witnessed
in the British Coffee-house. A Captain Cheap 'was employed by Lord Anson to look out for a
proper person to write his voyage. Cheap had a predilection for his countrymen, and having
heard of Guthrie, he had come down to the coffee-house to inquire about him. Not long after
Cheap had sat down, Guthrie arrived, dressed in laced clothes, and talking loud to everybody,
and soon fell awrangling with a gentleman about tragedy and comedy and the unities, &c., and
laid down the law of the drama in a peremptory manner, supporting his arguments with cursing
and swearing. I saw Cheap was astonished, when, going to the bar, he asked who this was, and
finding it was Guthrie he paid his coffee and slunk off in silence.' Guthrie's meanness is
shown by the following letter in D'Israeli's Calamities of Authors, i. 5:--

'June 3, 1762.

'My Lord,

'In the year 1745-6 Mr. Pelham, then First Lord of the Treasury, acquainted me that it was
his Majesty's pleasure I should receive till better provided for, which never has happened,
200L. a year, to be paid by him and his successors in the Treasury. I was satisfied with the
august name made use of, and the appointment has been regularly and quarterly paid me ever
since. I have been equally punctual in doing the Government all the services that fell within
my abilities or sphere of life, especially in those critical situations that call for unanimity
in the service of the Crown.

'Your Lordship may possibly now suspect that I am an Author by profession; you are not deceived;
and will be less so, if you believe that I am disposed to serve his Majesty under your Lordship's
future patronage and protection with greater zeal, if possible, than ever.

'I have the honour to be

'My Lord &c.

'WILLIAM GUTHRIE.'

The lord's name is not given. See post, spring of 1768, and 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection
for further mention of Guthrie.

[338] Perhaps there were Scotticisms for Johnson to correct; for Churchill in The Author, writing
of Guthrie, asks:--

'With rude unnatural jargon to support Half Scotch, half English, a declining Court

       *       *       *       *       *

Is there not Guthrie?'

Churchill's Poems, ii. 39.

[339] See Appendix A.

[340] Pope, Imitations of Horace, ii. l. 71.

[341] 'To give the world assurance of a man.' Hamlet, Act iii. sc. 4.

[342] In his Life of Pope Johnson says: 'This mode of imitation ... was first practised in
the reign of Charles II. by Oldham and Rochester; at least I remember no instances more ancient.
It is a kind of middle composition between translation and original design, which pleases when
the thoughts are unexpectedly applicable and the parallels lucky. It seems to have been Pope's
favourite amusement, for he has carried it farther than any former poet.' Johnson's Works,
viii. 295.

[343] I own it pleased me to find amongst them one trait of the manners of the age in London,
in the last century, to shield from the sneer of English ridicule, which was some time ago
too common a practice in my native city of Edinburgh:--

'If what I've said can't from the town affright, Consider other dangers of the night; When
brickbats are from upper stories thrown, And emptied chamberpots come pouring down From garret
windows.'

BOSWELL.

See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 14, 1773, where Johnson, on taking his first walk in Edinburgh,
'grumbled in Boswell's ear, "I smell you in the dark."' I once spent a night in a town of Corsica,
on the great road between Ajaccio and Bastia, where, I was told, this Edinburgh practice was
universal. It certainly was the practice of the hotel.

[344] His Ode Ad Urbanum probably. NICHOLS. BOSWELL.

[345] Johnson, on his death-bed, had to own that 'Cave was a penurious paymaster; he would
contract for lines by the hundred, and expect the long hundred.' See post, Dec. 1784.

[346] Cave sent the present by Johnson to the unknown author.

[347] See post, p. 151, note 5.

[348] The original letter has the following additional paragraph:--'I beg that you will not
delay your answer.'

[349] In later life Johnson strongly insisted on the importance of fully dating all letters.
After giving the date in a letter to Mrs. Thrale, he would add,--'Now there is a date, look
at it' (Piozzi Letters, ii. 109); or, 'Mark that--you did not put the year to your last' (Ib.
p. 112); or, 'Look at this and learn' (Ib. p. 138). She never did learn. The arrangement of
the letters in the Piozzi Letters is often very faulty. For an omission of the date by Johnson
in late life see post, under March 5, 1774.

[350] A poem, published in 1737, of which see an account under April 30, 1773--BOSWELL.

[351] The learned Mrs. Elizabeth Carter. BOSWELL. She was born Dec. 1717, and died Feb. 19,
1806. She never married. Her father gave her a learned education. Dr. Johnson, speaking of
some celebrated scholar [perhaps Langton], said, 'that he understood Greek better than any
one whom he he had ever known, except Elizabeth Carter.' Pennington's Carter, i. 13. Writing
to her in 1756 he said, 'Poor dear Cave! I owed him much; for to him I owe that I have known
you' (Ib. p. 40). Her father wrote to her on June 25, 1738:--'You mention Johnson; but that
is a name with which I am utterly unacquainted, Neither his scholastic, critical, or poetical
character ever reached my ears. I a little suspect his judgement, if he is very fond of Martial'
(Ib. p. 39). Since 1734 she had written verses for the Gent. Mag. under the name of Eliza (Ib.
p. 37)! They are very poor. Her Ode to Melancholy her biographer calls her best. How bad it
is three lines will show:--

'Here, cold to pleasure's airy forms, Consociate with my sister worms, And mingle with the dead.'

Gent. Mag. ix. 599.

Hawkins records that Johnson, upon hearing a lady commended for her learning, said:--'A man
is in general better pleased when he has a good dinner upon his table than when his wife talks
Greek. My old friend, Mrs. Carter, could make a pudding as well as translate Epictetus.' Johnson's
Works (1787), xi. 205. Johnson, joining her with Hannah More and Fanny Burney, said:--'Three
such women are not to be found.' Post, May 15, 1784.

[352] See Voltaire's Siecle de Louis XIV, ch. xxv..

[353] At the end of his letter to Cave, quoted post, 1742, he says:--'The boy found me writing
this almost in the dark, when I could not quite easily read yours.' A man who at times was
forced to walk the streets, for want of money to pay for a lodging, was likely also at times
to be condemned to idleness for want of a light.

[354] At the back of this letter is written: 'Sir, Please to publish the enclosed in your paper
of first, and place to acc't of Mr. Edward Cave. For whom I am, Sir, your hum. ser't J. Bland.
St. John's Gate, April 6, 1738.' London therefore was written before April 6.

[355] Boswell misread the letter. Johnson does not offer to allow the printer to make alterations.
He says:--'I will take the trouble of altering any stroke of satire which you may dislike.'
The law against libel was as unjust as it was severe, and printers ran a great risk.

[356] Derrick was not merely a poet, but also Master of the Ceremonies at Bath; post, May 16,
1763. For Johnson's opinion of his 'Muse' see post under March 30, 1783. Fortune, a Rhapsody,
was published in Nov. 1751. Gent. Mag. xxi. 527. He is described in Humphrey Clinker in the
letters of April 6 and May 6.

[357] See post, March 20, 1776.

[358] Six years later Johnson thus wrote of Savage's Wanderer:--'From a poem so diligently
laboured, and so successfully finished, it might be reasonably expected that he should have
gained considerable advantage; nor can it without some degree of indignation and concern be
told, that he sold the copy for ten guineas.' Johnson's Works, viii. 131. Mrs. Piozzi sold
in 1788 the copyright of her collection of Johnson's Letters for L500; post, Feb. 1767.

[359] The Monks of Medmenham Abbey. See Almon's Life of Wilkes, iii. 60, for Wilkes's account
of this club. Horace Walpole (Letters, i. 92) calls Whitehead 'an infamous, but not despicable
poet.'

[360] From The Conference, Churchill's Poems, ii. 15.

[361] In the Life of Pope Johnson writes:--'Paul Whitehead, a small poet, was summoned before
the Lords for a poem called Manners, together with Dodsley his publisher. Whitehead, who hung
loose upon society, sculked and escaped; but Dodsley's shop and family made his appearance
necessary.' Johnson's Works, viii. 297. Manners was published in 1739. Dodsley was kept in
custody for a week. Gent. Mag. ix. 104. 'The whole process was supposed to be intended rather
to intimidate Pope [who in his Seventeen Hundred and Thirty-Eight had given offence] than to
punish Whitehead, and it answered that purpose.' CHALMERS, quoted in Parl. Hist. x. 1325

[362] Sir John Hawkins, p. 86, tells us:--'The event is antedated, in the poem of London; but
in every particular, except the difference of a year, what is there said of the departure of
Thales, must be understood of Savage, and looked upon as true history.' This conjecture is,
I believe, entirely groundless. I have been assured, that Johnson said he was not so much as
acquainted with Savage when he wrote his London. If the departure mentioned in it was the departure
of Savage, the event was not antedated but foreseen; for London was published in May, 1738,
and Savage did not set out for Wales till July, 1739. However well Johnson could defend the
credibility of second sight [see post, Feb. 1766], he did not pretend that he himself was possessed
of that faculty. BOSWELL. I am not sure that Hawkins is altogether wrong in his account. Boswell
does not state of his own knowledge that Johnson was not acquainted with Savage when he wrote
London. The death of Queen Caroline in Nov. 1737 deprived Savage of her yearly bounty, and
'abandoned him again to fortune' (Johnson's Works, viii. 166). The elegy on her that he composed
on her birth-day (March 1) brought him no reward. He was 'for some time in suspense,' but nothing
was done. 'He was in a short time reduced to the lowest degree of distress, and often wanted
both lodging and food' (Ib. p. 169). His friends formed a scheme that 'he should retire into
Wales.' 'While this scheme was ripening' he lodged 'in the liberties of the Fleet, that he
might be secure from his creditors' (Ib. p. 170). After many delays a subscription was at length
raised to provide him with a small pension, and he left London in July 1739 (Ib. p 173). London,
as I have shewn, was written before April 6, 1738. That it was written with great rapidity
we might infer from the fact that a hundred lines of The Vanity of Human Wishes were written
in a day. At this rate London might have been the work of three days. That it was written in
a very short time seems to be shown by a passage in the first of these letters to Cave. Johnson
says:--'When I took the liberty of writing to you a few days ago, I did not expect a repetition
of the same pleasure so soon; ... but having the enclosed poem, &c.' It is probable that in
these few days the poem was written. If we can assume that Savage's elegy was sent to the Court
not later than March 1--it may have been sent earlier--and that Johnson's poem was written
in the last ten days of March, we have three weeks for the intervening events. They are certainly
not more than sufficient, if indeed they are sufficient. The coincidence is certainly very
striking between Thales's retirement to 'Cambria's solitary shore' and Savage's retirement
to Wales. There are besides lines in the poem--additions to Juvenal and not translations--which
curiously correspond with what Johnson wrote of Savage in his Life. Thus he says that Savage
'imagined that he should be transported to scenes of flowery felicity; ... he could not bear
... to lose the opportunity of listening, without intermission, to the melody of the nightingale,
which he believed was to be heard from every bramble, and which he did not fail to mention
as a very important part of the happiness of a country life' (Ib. p. 170). In like manner Thales
prays to find:--

'Some pleasing bank where verdant osiers play, Some peaceful vale, with nature's paintings gay.

       *       *       *       *       *

There every bush with nature's musick rings; There every breeze bears health upon its wings.'

Mr. Croker objects that 'if Thales had been Savage, Johnson could never have admitted into
his poem two lines that point so forcibly at the drunken fray, in which Savage stabbed a Mr.
Sinclair, for which he was convicted of murder:--

"Some frolic drunkard, reeling from a feast, Provokes a broil, and stabs you in a jest."'

But here Johnson is following Juvenal. Mr. Croker forgets that, if Savage was convicted of
murder, 'he was soon after admitted to bail, and pleaded the King's pardon.' 'Persons of distinction'
testified that he was 'a modest inoffensive man, not inclined to broils or to insolence;' the
witnesses against him were of the lowest character, and his judge had shewn himself as ignorant
as he was brutal. Sinclair had been drinking in a brothel, and Savage asserted that he had
stabbed him 'by the necessity of self defence' (Ib. p. 117). It is, however, not unlikely that
Wales was suggested to Johnson as Thales's retreat by Swift's lines on Steele, in Miscellanies
in Prose and Verse (v. 181), published only three years before London:--

'Thus Steele who owned what others writ, And flourished by imputed wit, From perils of a hundred
jails Withdrew to starve and die in Wales.'

[363] The first dialogue was registered at Stationers' Hall, 12th May, 1738, under the title
One Thousand Seven Hundred and Thirty Eight. The second dialogue was registered 17th July,
1738, as One Thousand Seven Hundred and Thirty Eight, Dialogue 2. Elwin's Pope, iii. 455.

David Hume was in London this spring, finding a publisher for his first work, A Treatise of
Human Nature. J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 66.

[364] Pope had published Imitations of Horace.

[365] P. 269. BOSWELL. 'Short extracts from London, a Poem, become remarkable for having got
to the second edition in the space of a week.' Gent. Mag. viii. 269. The price of the poem
was one shilling. Pope's satire, though sold at the same price, was longer in reaching its
second edition (Ib. p. 280). 2. 276.

'General Oglethorpe, died 1785, earned commemoration in Pope's gallery of worthies by his Jacobite
politics. He was, however, a remarkable man. He first directed attention to the abuses of the
London jails. His relinquishment of all the attractions of English life and fortune for the
settlement of the colony of Georgia is as romantic a story at that of Bishop Berkeley' (Pattison's
Pope, p. 152). It is very likely that Johnson's regard for Oglethorpe was greatly increased
by the stand that he and his brother-trustees in the settlement of Georgia made against slavery
(see post, Sept. 23, 1777). 'The first principle which they laid down in their laws was that
no slave should be employed. This was regarded at the time as their great and fundamental error;
it was afterwards repealed' (Southey's Wesley, i. 75). In spite, however, of Oglethorpe's 'strong
benevolence of soul' he at one time treated Charles Wesley, who was serving as a missionary
in Georgia, with great brutality (Ib. p. 88). According to Benjamin Franklin (Memoirs, i. 162)
Georgia was settled with little forethought. 'Instead of being made with hardy industrious
husbandmen, it was with families of broken shop-keepers, and other insolvent debtors; many
of idle habits, taken out of the jails, who being set down in the woods, unqualified for clearing
land, and unable to endure the hardships of a new settlement, perished in numbers, leaving
many helpless children unprovided for.' Johnson wished to write Oglethorpe's life; post, April
10, 1775.

[367] Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 548), writing of him 47 years after London was published,
when he was 87 years old, says:--'His eyes, ears, articulation, limbs, and memory would suit
a boy, if a boy could recollect a century backwards. His teeth are gone; he is a shadow, and
a wrinkled one; but his spirits and his spirit are in full bloom: two years and a-half ago
he challenged a neighbouring gentleman for trespassing on his manor.'

[368] Once Johnson being at dinner at Sir Joshua's in company with many painters, in the course
of conversation Richardson's Treatise on Painting happened to be mentioned, 'Ah!' said Johnson,
'I remember, when I was at college, I by chance found that book on my stairs. I took it up
with me to my chamber, and read it through, and truly I did not think it possible to say so
much upon the art.' Sir Joshua desired of one of the company to be informed what Johnson had
said; and it being repeated to him so loud that Johnson heard it, the Doctor seemed hurt, and
added, 'But I did not wish, Sir, that Sir Joshua should have been told what I then said.' Northcote's
Reynolds, i. 236. Jonathan Richardson the painter had published several works on painting before
Johnson went to college. He and his son, Jonathan Richardson, junior, brought out together
Explanatory Notes on Paradise Lost.

[369] Sir Joshua Reynolds, from the information of the younger Richardson. BOSWELL. See post,
Oct. 16, 1769, where Johnson himself relates this anecdote. According to Murphy, 'Pope said,
"The author, whoever he is, will not be long concealed;" alluding to the passage in Terence
[Eun. ii. 3, 4], Ubi, ubi est, diu celari non potest.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 35.

[370] Such as far and air, which comes twice; vain and man, despair and bar.

[371] It is, however, remarkable, that he uses the epithet, which undoubtedly, since the union
between England and Scotland, ought to denominate the natives of both parts of our island:--

'Was early taught a BRITON'S rights to prize.'

BOSWELL.

Swift, in his Journal to Stella (Nov. 23, 1711), having to mention England, continues:--'I
never will call it Britain, pray don't call it Britain.' In a letter written on Aug. 8, 1738,
again mentioning England, he adds,--'Pox on the modern phrase Great Britain, which is only
to distinguish it from Little Britain, where old clothes and old books are to be bought and
sold' (Swift's Works, 1803, xx. 185). George III 'gloried in being born a Briton;' post, 1760.
Boswell thrice more at least describes Johnson as 'a true-born Englishman;' post, under Feb.
7, 1775, under March 30, 1783, and Boswell's Hebrides under Aug. 11, 1773. The quotation is
from Richard II, Act i. sc. 3.

[372]

'For who would leave, unbrib'd, Hibernia's land, Or change the rocks of Scotland for the Strand?
There none are swept by sudden fate away, But all, whom hunger spares, with age decay.'

London, 1. 9-12.

[373] In the Life of Savage, Johnson, criticising the settlement of colonies, as it is considered
by the poet and the politician, seems to be criticising himself. 'The politician, when he considers
men driven into other countries for shelter, and obliged to retire to forests and deserts,
and pass their lives, and fix their posterity, in the remotest corners of the world, to avoid
those hardships which they suffer or fear in their native place, may very properly enquire,
why the legislature does not provide a remedy for these miseries, rather than encourage an
escape from them. He may conclude that the flight of every honest man is a loss to the community....
The poet guides the unhappy fugitive from want and persecution to plenty, quiet, and security,
and seats him in scenes of peaceful solitude, and undisturbed repose.' Johnson's Works, viii. 156.

[374] Three years later Johnson wrote:--'Mere unassisted merit advances slowly, if, what is
not very common, it advances at all.' Ib. vi. 393.

[375] 'The busy hum of men.' Milton's L'Allegro, 1. 118.

[376] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 21, 1773, and post, March 21, 1775, for Johnson's attack
on Lord Chatham. In the Life of Thomson Johnson wrote:--'At this time a long course of opposition
to Sir Robert Walpole had filled the nation with clamours for liberty, of which no man felt
the want, and with care for liberty, which was not in danger.' Johnson's Works, viii. 370.
Hawkins says (Life, p. 514);--'Of Walpole he had a high opinion. He said of him that he was
a fine fellow, and that his very enemies deemed him so before his death. He honoured his memory
for having kept this country in peace many years, as also for the goodness and placability
of his temper.' Horace Walpole (Letters, v. 509), says:--'My father alone was capable of acting
on one great plan of honesty from the beginning of his life to the end. He could for ever wage
war with knaves and malice, and preserve his temper; could know men, and yet feel for them;
could smile when opposed, and be gentle after triumph.'

[377] Johnson in the Life of Milton describes himself:--'Milton was naturally a thinker for
himself, confident of his own abilities, and disdainful of help or hindrance. From his contemporaries
he neither courted nor received support; there is in his writings nothing by which the pride
of other authors might be gratified, or favour gained; no exchange of praise, nor solicitation
of support.' Johnson's Works, vii. 142. See post Feb. 1766, for Johnson's opinion on 'courting
great men.'

[378] In a billet written by Mr. Pope in the following year, this school is said to have been
in Shropshire; but as it appears from a letter from Earl Gower, that the trustees of it were
'some worthy gentlemen in Johnson's neighbourhood,' I in my first edition suggested that Pope
must have, by mistake, written Shropshire, instead of Staffordshire. But I have since been
obliged to Mr. Spearing, attorney-at-law, for the following information:--'William Adams, formerly
citizen and haberdasher of London, founded a school at Newport, in the county of Salop, by
deed dated 27th November, 1656, by which he granted "the yearly sum of sixty pounds to such
able and learned schoolmaster, from time to time, being of godly life and conversation, who
should have been educated at one of the Universities of Oxford or Cambridge, and had taken
the degree of Master of Arts, and was well read in the Greek and Latin tongues, as should be
nominated from time to time by the said William Adams, during his life, and after the decease
of the said William Adams, by the Governours (namely, the Master and Wardens of the Haberdashers'
Company of the City of London) and their successors." The manour and lands out of which the
revenues for the maintenance of the school were to issue are situate at Knighton and Adbaston,
in the county of Stafford.' From the foregoing account of this foundation, particularly the
circumstances of the salary being sixty pounds, and the degree of Master of Arts being a requisite
qualification in the teacher, it seemed probable that this was the school in contemplation;
and that Lord Gower erroneously supposed that the gentlemen who possessed the lands, out of
which the revenues issued, were trustees of the charity.

Such was probable conjecture. But in the Gent. Mag. for May, 1793, there is a letter from Mr.
Henn, one of the masters of the school of Appleby, in Leicestershire, in which he writes as
follows:--

'I compared time and circumstance together, in order to discover whether the school in question
might not be this of Appleby. Some of the trustees at that period were "worthy gentlemen of
the neighbourhood of Litchfield." Appleby itself is not far from the neighbourhood of Litchfield.
The salary, the degree requisite, together with the time of election, all agreeing with the
statutes of Appleby. The election, as said in the letter, "could not be delayed longer than
the 11th of next month," which was the 11th of September, just three months after the annual
audit-day of Appleby school, which is always on the 11th of June; and the statutes enjoin ne
ullius praeceptorum electio diutius tribus mensibus moraretur, etc.

'These I thought to be convincing proofs that my conjecture was not ill-founded, and that,
in a future edition of that book, the circumstance might be recorded as fact.

'But what banishes every shadow of doubt is the Minute-book of the school, which declares the
headmastership to be at that time VACANT.'

I cannot omit returning thanks to this learned gentleman for the very handsome manner in which
he has in that letter been so good as to speak of this work. BOSWELL.

[379] 'What a pity it is, Sir,' said to him Sir William Scott, afterwards Lord Stowell, 'that
you did not follow the profession of the law! You might have been Lord Chancellor of Great
Britain' Post, April 17, 1778.

[380] See post, beginning of 1770.

[381] See post, March 21, 1775.

[382] In the Weekly Miscellany, October 21, 1738, there appeared the following advertisement:--'Just
published, Proposals for printing the History of the Council of Trent, translated from the
Italian of Father Paul Sarpi; with the Authour's Life, and Notes theological, historical, and
critical, from the French edition of Dr. Le Courayer. To which are added, Observations on the
History, and Notes and Illustrations from various Authours, both printed and manuscript. By
S. Johnson. 1. The work will consist of two hundred sheets, and be two volumes in quarto, printed
on good paper and letter. 2. The price will be 18s. each volume, to be paid, half-a-guinea
at the delivery of the first volume, and the rest at the delivery of the second volume in sheets.
3. Two-pence to be abated for every sheet less than two hundred. It may be had on a large paper,
in three volumes, at the price of three guineas; one to be paid at the time of subscribing,
another at the delivery of the first, and the rest at the delivery of the other volumes. The
work is now in the press, and will be diligently prosecuted. Subscriptions are taken in by
Mr. Dodsley in Pall-Mall, Mr. Rivington in St. Paul's Church-yard, by E. Cave at St. John's
Gate, and the Translator, at No. 6, in Castle-street by Cavendish-square.' BOSWELL.

[383] They afterwards appeared in the Gent. Mag. [viii. 486] with this title--'Verses to Lady
Firebrace, at Bury Assizes.' BOSWELL.

[384] Du Halde's Description of China was then publishing by Mr. Cave in weekly numbers, whence
Johnson was to select pieces for the embellishment of the Magazine. NICHOLS. BOSWELL.

[385] The premium of forty pounds proposed for the best poem on the Divine Attributes is here
alluded to. NICHOLS. BOSWELL.

[386] The Compositors in Mr. Cave's printing-office, who appear by this letter to have then
waited for copy. NICHOLS. BOSWELL.

[387] Twenty years later, when he was lodging in the Temple, he had fasted for two days at
a time; 'he had drunk tea, but eaten no bread; this was no intentional fasting, but happened
just in the course of a literary life.' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 4, 1773. See post, Aug. 5, 1763.

[388] Birch MSS. Brit. Mus. 4323. BOSWELL.

[389] See post, under Dec. 30, 1747, and Oct. 24, 1780.

[390] See post, 1750.

[391] This book was published. BOSWELL. I have not been able to find it.

[392] The Historie of four-footed beasts and serpents. By Edward Topsell. London, 1607. Isaac
Walton, in the Complete Angler, more than once quotes Topsel. See p. 99 in the reprint of the
first edition, where he says:--'As our Topsel hath with great diligence observed.'

[393] In this preface he describes some pieces as 'deserving no other fate than to be hissed,
torn, and forgotten. Johnson's Works, v. 346.

[394] The letter to Mr. Urban in the January number of this year (p. 3) is, I believe, by Johnson.

[395] 'Yet did Boerhaave not suffer one branch of science to withdraw his attention from others;
anatomy did not withhold him from chymistry, nor chymistry, enchanting as it is, from the study
of botany.' Johnson's Works, vi. 276. See post, under Sept. 9, 1779.

[396] Gent. Mag. viii. 210, and Johnson's Works, i. 170.

[397] What these verses are is not clear. On p. 372 there is an epigram Ad Elisam Popi Horto
Lauras carpentem, of which on p. 429 there are three translations. That by Urbanus may be Johnson's.

[398] Ib. p. 654, and Johnson's Works, i. 170. On p. 211 of this volume of the Gent. Mag. is
given the epigram 'To a lady who spoke in defence of liberty.' This was 'Molly Aston' mentioned
ante, p. 83.

[399] To the year 1739 belongs Considerations on the Case of Dr. T[rapp]s Sermons. Abridged
by Mr. Cave, 1739; first published in the Gent. Mag. of July 1787. (See post under Nov. 5,
1784, note.) Cave had begun to publish in the Gent. Mag. an abridgment of four sermons preached
by Trapp against Whitefield. He stopped short in the publication, deterred perhaps by the threat
of a prosecution for an infringement of copy-right. 'On all difficult occasions,' writes the
Editor in 1787, 'Johnson was Cave's oracle; and the paper now before us was certainly written
on that occasion.' Johnson argues that abridgments are not only legal but also justifiable.
'The design of an abridgment is to benefit mankind by facilitating the attainment of knowledge
... for as an incorrect book is lawfully criticised, and false assertions justly confuted ...
so a tedious volume may no less lawfully be abridged, because it is better that the proprietors
should suffer some damage, than that the acquisition of knowledge should be obstructed with
unnecessary difficulties, and the valuable hours of thousands thrown away.' Johnson's Works,
v. 465. Whether we have here Johnson's own opinion cannot be known. He was writing as Cave's
advocate. See also Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 20, 1773.

[400] In his Life of Thomson Johnson writes:--'About this time the act was passed for licensing
plays, of which the first operation was the prohibition of Gustavus Vasa, a tragedy of Mr.
Brooke, whom the public recompensed by a very liberal subscription; the next was the refusal
of Edward and Eleonora, offered by Thomson. It is hard to discover why either play should have
been obstructed.' Johnson's Works, viii. 373.

[401] The Inscription and the Translation of it are preserved in the London Magazine for the
year 1739, p. 244. BOSWELL. See Johnson's Works, vi. 89.

[402] It is a little heavy in its humour, and does not compare well with the like writings
of Swift and the earlier wits.

[403] Hawkins's Johnson, p. 72.

[404]

'Sic fatus senior, telumque imbelle sine ictu Conjecit.' 'So spake the elder, and cast forth
a toothless spear and vain.'

Morris, AEneids, ii. 544.

[405]

'Get all your verses printed fair,
    Then let them well be dried;
And Curll must have a special care
    To leave the margin wide.
Lend these to paper-sparing Pope;
    And when he sits to write,
No letter with an envelope
    Could give him more delight.'

Advice to the Grub Street Verse-Writers. (Swift's Works, 1803, xi 32.) Nichols, in a note on
this passage, says:--'The original copy of Pope's Homer is almost entirely written on the covers
of letters, and sometimes between the lines of the letters themselves.' Johnson, in his Life
of Pope, writes:--'Of Pope's domestic character frugality was a part eminently remarkable....
This general care must be universally approved; but it sometimes appeared in petty artifices
of parsimony, such as the practice of writing his compositions on the back of letters, as may
be seen in the remaining copy of the Iliad, by which perhaps in five years five shillings were
saved.' Johnson's Works, viii. 312.

[406] See note, p. 132. BOSWELL.

[407] The Marmor Norfolciense, price one shilling, is advertised in the Gent. Mag. for 1739
(p. 220) among the books for April.

[408] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 8. BOSWELL.

[409] According to Sir Joshua Reynolds, 'Every person who knew Dr. Johnson must have observed
that the moment he was left out of the conversation, whether from his deafness or from whatever
cause, but a few minutes without speaking or listening, his mind appeared to be preparing itself.
He fell into a reverie accompanied with strange antic gestures; but this he never did when
his mind was engaged by the conversation. These were therefore improperly called convulsions,
which imply involuntary contortions; whereas, a word addressed to him, his attention was recovered.
Sometimes, indeed, it would be near a minute before he would give an answer, looking as if
he laboured to bring his mind to bear on the question' (Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 456). 'I still,
however, think,' wrote Boswell, 'that these gestures were involuntary; for surely had not that
been the case, he would have restrained them in the public streets' (Boswell's Hebrides, under
date of Aug. 11, 1773, note). Dr. T. Campbell, in his Diary of a Visit to England, p. 33, writing
of Johnson on March 16, 1775, says:--'He has the aspect of an idiot, without the faintest ray
of sense gleaming from any one feature--with the most awkward garb, and unpowdered grey wig,
on one side only of his head--he is for ever dancing the devil's jig, and sometimes he makes
the most driveling effort to whistle some thought in his absent paroxysms.' Miss Burney thus
describes him when she first saw him in 1778:--'Soon after we were seated this great man entered.
I have so true a veneration for him that the very sight of him inspires me with delight and
reverence, notwithstanding the cruel infirmities to which he is subject; for he has almost
perpetual convulsive movements, either of his hands, lips, feet, or knees, and sometimes of
all together.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 63. See post, under March 30, 1783, Boswell's note
on Johnson's peculiarities.

[410] 'Solitude,' wrote Reynolds, 'to him was horror; nor would he ever trust himself alone
but when employed in writing or reading. He has often begged me to go home with him to prevent
his being alone in the coach. Any company was better than none; by which he connected himself
with many mean persons whose presence he could command.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 455. Johnson
writing to Mrs. Thrale, said:--'If the world be worth winning, let us enjoy it; if it is to
be despised, let us despise it by conviction. But the world is not to be despised but as it
is compared with something better. Company is in itself better than solitude, and pleasure
better than indolence.' Piozzi Letters, i. 242. In The Idler, No. 32, he wrote:--'Others are
afraid to be alone, and amuse themselves by a perpetual succession of companions; but the difference
is not great; in solitude we have our dreams to ourselves, and in company we agree to dream
in concert. The end sought in both is forgetfulness of ourselves.' In The Rambler, No. 5, he
wrote:--'It may be laid down as a position which will seldom deceive, that when a man cannot
bear his own company, there is something wrong. He must fly from himself, either because he
feels a tediousness in life from the equipoise of an empty mind ... or he must be afraid of
the intrusion of some unpleasing ideas, and, perhaps, is struggling to escape from the remembrance
of a loss, the fear of a calamity, or some other thought of greater horror.'

Cowper, whose temperament was in some respects not unlike Johnson's, wrote:--'A vacant hour
is my abhorrence; because, when I am not occupied, I suffer under the whole influence of my
unhappy temperament.' Southey's Cowper, vi. 146.

[411] Richardson was of the same way of thinking as Hogarth. Writing of a speech made at the
Oxford Commemoration of 1754 by the Jacobite Dr. King (see post, Feb. 1755), he said:--'There
cannot be a greater instance of the lenity of the government he abuses than his pestilent harangues
so publicly made with impunity furnishes (sic) all his readers with.'--Rich. Corresp. ii. 197.

[412] Impartial posterity may, perhaps, be as little inclined as Dr. Johnson was to justify
the uncommon rigour exercised in the case of Dr. Archibald Cameron. He was an amiable and truly
honest man; and his offence was owing to a generous, though mistaken principle of duty. Being
obliged, after 1746, to give up his profession as a physician, and to go into foreign parts,
he was honoured with the rank of Colonel, both in the French and Spanish service. He was a
son of the ancient and respectable family of Cameron, of Lochiel; and his brother, who was
the Chief of that brave clan, distinguished himself by moderation and humanity, while the Highland
army marched victorious through Scotland. It is remarkable of this Chief, that though he had
earnestly remonstrated against the attempt as hopeless, he was of too heroick a spirit not
to venture his life and fortune in the cause, when personally asked by him whom he thought
his prince. BOSWELL.

Sir Walter Scott states, in his Introduction to Redgauntlet, that the government of George
II were in possession of sufficient evidence that Dr. Cameron had returned to the Highlands,
not, as he alleged on his trial, for family affairs merely, but as the secret agent of the
Pretender in a new scheme of rebellion: the ministers, however, preferred trying this indefatigable
partisan on the ground of his undeniable share in the insurrection of 1745, rather than rescuing
themselves and their master from the charge of harshness, at the expense of making it universally
known, that a fresh rebellion had been in agitation so late as 1752. LOCKHART. He was executed
on June 7, 1753. Gent. Mag. xxiii. 292. Lord Campbell (Lives of the Chancellors, v. 109) says:--'I
regard his execution as a wanton atrocity.' Horace Walpole, however, inclined to the belief
that Cameron was engaged in a new scheme of rebellion. Walpole's Memoirs of George II, i. 333.

[413] Horace Walpole says that towards convicts under sentence of death 'George II's disposition
in general was merciful, if the offence was not murder.' He mentions, however, a dreadful exception,
when the King sent to the gallows at Oxford a young man who had been 'guilty of a most trifling
forgery,' though he had been recommended to mercy by the Judge, who 'had assured him his pardon.'
Mercy was refused, merely because the Judge, Willes, 'was attached to the Prince of Wales.'
It is very likely that this was one of Johnson's 'instances,' as it had happened about four
years earlier, and as an account of the young man had been published by an Oxonian. Walpole's
Memoirs of the Reign of George II, i. 175.

[414] It is strange that when Johnson had been sixteen years in London he should not be known
to Hogarth by sight.

[415] On October 29 of this year James Boswell was born.

[416] In this preface is found the following lively passage:--'The Roman Gazetteers are defective
in several material ornaments of style. They never end an article with the mystical hint, this
occasions great speculation. They seem to have been ignorant of such engaging introductions
as, we hear it is strongly reported; and of that ingenious, but thread-bare excuse for a downright
lie, it wants confirmation.'

[417] The Lives of Blake and Drake were certainly written with a political aim. The war with
Spain was going on, and the Tory party was doing its utmost to rouse the country against the
Spaniards. It was 'a time,' according to Johnson, 'when the nation was engaged in a war with
an enemy, whose insults, ravages, and barbarities have long called for vengeance.' Johnson's
Works, vi. 293.

[418] Barretier's childhood surpassed even that of J. S. Mill. At the age of nine he was master
of five languages, Greek and Hebrew being two of them. 'In his twelfth year he applied more
particularly to the study of the fathers.' At the age of fourteen he published Anti-Artemonius;
sive initium evangelii S. Joannis adversus Artemonium vindicatum. The same year the University
of Halle offered him the degree of doctor in philosophy. 'His theses, or philosophical positions,
which he printed, ran through several editions in a few weeks.' He was a deep student of mathematics,
and astronomy was his favourite subject. His health broke down under his studies, and he died
in 1740 in the twentieth year of his age. Johnson's Works, vi. 376.

[419] He wrote also in 1756 A Dissertation on the Epitaphs written by Pope.

[420] See post, Oct. 16, 1769.

[421] In the original and. Gent. Mag. x. 464. The title of this poem as there given is:--'An
epitaph upon the celebrated Claudy Philips, Musician, who died very poor.'

[422] The epitaph of Phillips is in the porch of Wolverhampton Church. The prose part of it
is curious:--

         'Near this place lies
     Charles Claudius Phillips,
   Whose absolute contempt of riches
  and inimitable performances upon the
              violin
  made him the admiration of all that
            knew him.

Consort is defined in Johnson's Dictionary as a number of instruments playing together.

[423] I have no doubt that it was written in 1741; for the second line is clearly a parody
of a line in the chorus of Cibber's Birthday Ode for that year. The chorus is as follows:

'While thou our Master of the Main Revives Eliza's glorious reign, The great Plantagenets look
down, And see your race adorn your crown.'

Gent. Mag. xi. 549.

In the Life of Barretier Johnson had also this fling at George II:--'Princes are commonly the
last by whom merit is distinguished.' Johnson's Works, vi. 381.

[424] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 23 and Nov. 21, 1773.

[425] Hester Lynch Salusbury, afterwards Mrs. Thrale, and later on Mrs. Piozzi, was born on
Jan. 27, 1741.

[426] This piece is certainly not by Johnson. It contains more than one ungrammatical passage.
It is impossible to believe that he wrote such a sentence as the following:--'Another having
a cask of wine sealed up at the top, but his servant boring a hole at the bottom stole the
greatest part of it away; sometime after, having called a friend to taste his wine, he found
the vessel almost empty,' &c.

[427] Mr. Carlyle, by the use of the term 'Imaginary Editors' (Cromwell's Letters and Speeches,
iii. 229), seems to imply that he does not hold with Boswell in assigning this piece to Johnson.
I am inclined to think, nevertheless, that Boswell is right. If it is Johnson's it is doubly
interesting as showing the method which he often followed in writing the Parliamentary Debates.
When notes were given him, while for the most part he kept to the speaker's train of thoughts,
he dealt with the language much as it pleased him. In the Gent. Mag. Cromwell speaks as if
he were wearing a flowing wig and were addressing a Parliament of the days of George II. He
is thus made to conclude Speech xi:--'For my part, could I multiply my person or dilate my
power, I should dedicate myself wholly to this great end, in the prosecution of which I shall
implore the blessing of God upon your counsels and endeavours.' Gent. Mag. xi. 100. The following
are the words which correspond to this in the original:--'If I could help you to many, and
multiply myself into many, that would be to serve you in regard to settlement.... But I shall
pray to God Almighty that He would direct you to do what is according to His will. And this
is that poor account I am able to give of myself in this thing.' Carlyle's Cromwell, iii. 255.

[428] See Appendix A.

[429] Lord Chesterfield.

[430] Duke of Newcastle.

[431] I suppose in another compilation of the same kind. BOSWELL.

[432] Doubtless, Lord Hardwick. BOSWELL.

[433] The delivery of letters by the penny-post 'was originally confined to the cities of London
and Westminster, the borough of Southwark and the respective suburbs thereof.' In 1801 the
postage was raised to twopence. The term 'suburbs' must have had a very limited signification,
for it was not till 1831 that the limits of this delivery were extended to all places within
three miles of the General Post Office. Ninth Report of the Commissioners of the Post Office,
1837, p. 4.

[434] Birch's MSS. in the British Museum, 4302. BOSWELL.

[435] See post, Dec. 1784, in Nichols's Anecdotes. If we may trust Hawkins, it is likely that
Johnson's 'tenderness of conscience' cost Cave a good deal; for he writes that, while Johnson
composed the Debates, the sale of the Magazine increased from ten to fifteen thousand copies
a month. 'Cave manifested his good fortune by buying an old coach and a pair of older horses.'
Hawkins's Johnson, P. 123.

[436] I am assured that the editor is Mr. George Chalmers, whose commercial works are well
known and esteemed. BOSWELL.

[437] The characteristic of Pulteney's oratory is thus given in Hazlitts Northcole's Conversations
(p. 288):--'Old Mr. Tolcher used to say of the famous Pulteney--"My Lord Bath always speaks
in blank verse."'

[438] Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 100. BOSWELL.

[439] A bookseller of London. BOSWELL

[440] Not the Royal Society; but the Society for the encouragement of learning, of which Dr.
Birch was a leading member. Their object was to assist authors in printing expensive works.
It existed from about 1735 to 1746, when having incurred a considerable debt, it was dissolved.
BOSWELL.

[441] There is no erasure here, but a mere blank; to fill up which may be an exercise for ingenious
conjecture. BOSWELL.

[442] Johnson, writing to Dr. Taylor on June 10, 1742, says:--'I propose to get Charles of
Sweden ready for this winter, and shall therefore, as I imagine, be much engaged for some months
with the dramatic writers into whom I have scarcely looked for many years. Keep Irene close,
you may send it back at your leisure.' Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 303. Charles of Sweden
must have been a play which he projected.

[443] The profligate sentiment was, that 'to tell a secret to a friend is no breach of fidelity,
because the number of persons trusted is not multiplied, a man and his friend being virtually
the same.' Rambler, No. 13.

[444] Journal of a tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 167. [Sept. 10, 1773.] BOSWELL.

[445] This piece contains a passage in honour of some great critic. 'May the shade, at least,
of one great English critick rest without disturbance; and may no man presume to insult his
memory, who wants his learning, his reason, or his wit.' Johnson's Works, v. 182. Bentley had
died on July 14 of this year, and there can be little question that Bentley is meant.

[446] See post, end of 1744.

[447] 'There is nothing to tell, dearest lady, but that he was insolent and I beat him, and
that he was a blockhead and told of it, which I should never have done.... I have beat many
a fellow, but the rest had the wit to hold their tongues.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 233. In the Life
of Pope Johnson thus mentions Osborne:--'Pope was ignorant enough of his own interest to make
another change, and introduced Osborne contending for the prize among the booksellers [Dunciad,
ii. 167]. Osborne was a man entirely destitute of shame, without sense of any disgrace but
that of poverty.... The shafts of satire were directed equally in vain against Cibber and Osborne;
being repelled by the impenetrable impudence of one, and deadened by the impassive dulness
of the other.' Johnson's Works, viii. 302.

[448] In the original contentions.

[449] 'Dec. 21, 1775. In the Paper Office there is a wight, called Thomas Astle, who lives
like moths on old parchments.' Walpole's Letters, vi. 299.

[450] Savage died on Aug. 1, 1743, so that this letter is misplaced.

[451] The Plain Dealer was published in 1724, and contained some account of Savage. BOSWELL.

[452] In the Gent. Mag. for Sept. 1743 (p. 490) there is an epitaph on R----d S----e, Esq.,
which may perhaps be this inscription. 'His life was want,' this epitaph declares. It is certainly
not the Runick Inscription in the number for March 1742, as Malone suggests; for the earliest
possible date of this letter is seventeen months later.

[453] I have not discovered what this was. BOSWELL.

[454] The Mag.-Extraordinary is perhaps the Supplement to the December number of each year.

[455] This essay contains one sentiment eminently Johnsonian. The writer had shown how patiently
Confucius endured extreme indigence. He adds:--'This constancy cannot raise our admiration
after his former conquest of himself; for how easily may he support pain who has been able
to resist pleasure.' Gent. Mag. xii. 355.

[456] In this Preface there is a complaint that has been often repeated--'All kinds of learning
have given way to politicks.'

[457] In the Life of Pope (Johnson's Works, viii. 287) Johnson says that Crousaz, 'however
little known or regarded here, was no mean antagonist'

[458] It is not easy to believe that Boswell had read this essay, for there is nothing metaphysical
in what Johnson wrote. Two-thirds of the paper are a translation from Crousaz. Boswell does
not seem to have distinguished between Crousaz's writings and Johnson's. We have here a striking
instance of the way in which Cave sometimes treated his readers. One-third of this essay is
given in the number for March, the rest in the number for November.

[459]

Angliacas inter pulcherrima Laura puellas,
  Mox uteri pondus depositura grave,
Adsit, Laura, tibi facilis Lucina dolenti,
  Neve tibi noceat praenituisse Deae.

Mr. Hector was present when this Epigram was made impromptu. The first line was proposed by
Dr. James, and Johnson was called upon by the company to finish it, which he instantly did.
BOSWELL. Macaulay (Essays, i. 364) criticises Mr. Croker's criticism of this epigram.

[460] The lines with which this poem is introduced seem to show that it cannot be Johnson's.
He was not the man to allow that haste of performance was any plea for indulgence. They are
as follows:--'Though several translations of Mr. Pope's verses on his Grotto have already appeared,
we hope that the following attempt, which, we are assured, was the casual amusement of half
an hour during several solicitations to proceed, will neither be unacceptable to our readers,
nor (these circumstances considered) dishonour the persons concerned by a hasty publication.'
Gent. Mag. xiii. 550.

[461] See Gent. Mag. xiii. 560. I doubt whether this advertisement be from Johnson's hand.
It is very unlikely that he should make the advertiser in one and the same paragraph when speaking
of himself use us and mine. Boswell does not mention the Preface to vol. iii. of the Harkian
Catalogue. It is included in Johnson's Works (v. 198). Its author, be he who he may, in speaking
of literature, says:--'I have idly hoped to revive a taste well-nigh extinguished.'

[462] Johnson did not speak equally well of Dr. James's morals. 'He will not,' he wrote, 'pay
for three box tickets which he took. It is a strange fellow.' The tickets were no doubt for
Miss Williams's benefit (Croker's Boswell, 8vo. p. 101). See ante, p. 81, and post, March 28,
1776, end of 1780, note.

[463] See post, April 5, 1776.

[464] 'TO DR. MEAD.

'SIR,

'That the Medicinal Dictionary is dedicated to you, is to be imputed only to your reputation
for superior skill in those sciences which I have endeavoured to explain and facilitate: and
you are, therefore, to consider this address, if it be agreeable to you, as one of the rewards
of merit; and if, otherwise, as one of the inconveniences of eminence.

'However you shall receive it, my design cannot be disappointed; because this publick appeal
to your judgement will shew that I do not found my hopes of approbation upon the ignorance
of my readers, and that I fear his censure least, whose knowledge is most extensive.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most obedient

'humble servant,

'R. JAMES.'

BOSWELL. See post, May 16, 1778, where Johnson said, 'Dr. Mead lived more in the broad sunshine
of life than almost any man.'

[465] Johnson was used to speak of him in this manner:--'Tom is a lively rogue; he remembers
a great deal, and can tell many pleasant stories; but a pen is to Tom a torpedo, the touch
of it benumbs his hand and his brain.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 209. Goldsmith in his Life of
Nash (Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 54) says:--'Nash was not born a writer, for whatever
humour he might have in conversation, he used to call a pen his torpedo; whenever he grasped
it, it benumbed all his faculties.' It is very likely that Nash borrowed this saying from Johnson.
In Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 24, 1773, we read:--Dr. Birch being mentioned, Dr. Johnson said
he had more anecdotes than any man. I said, Percy had a great many; that he flowed with them
like one of the brooks here. JOHNSON. "If Percy is like one of the brooks here, Birch was like
the River Thames. Birch excelled Percy in that as much as Percy excels Goldsmith." Disraeli
(Curiosities of Literature, iii, 425) describes Dr. Birch as 'one to whom British history stands
more indebted than to any superior author. He has enriched the British Museum by thousands
of the most authentic documents of genuine secret history.'

[466] Ante, p. 140.

[467] In 1761 Mr. John Levett was returned for Lichfield, but on petition was declared to be
not duly elected (Parl. Hist. xv. 1088). Perhaps he was already aiming at public life.

[468] One explanation may be found of Johnson's intimacy with Savage and with other men of
loose character. 'He was,' writes Hawkins, 'one of the most quick-sighted men I ever knew in
discovering the good and amiable qualities of others' (Hawkins's Johnson, p. 50). 'He was,'
says Boswell (post, April 13, 1778), 'willing to take men as they are, imperfect, and with
a mixture of good and bad qualities.' How intimate the two men were is shown by the following
passage in Johnson's Life of Savage:--'Savage left London in July, 1739, having taken leave
with great tenderness of his friends, and parted from the author of this narrative with tears
in his eyes.' Johnson's Works, viii. 173.

[469] As a specimen of his temper, I insert the following letter from him to a noble Lord,
to whom he was under great obligations, but who, on account of his bad conduct, was obliged
to discard him. The original was in the hands of the late Francis Cockayne Cust, Esq., one
of His Majesty's Counsel learned in the law:

'Right Honourable BRUTE, and BOOBY,

'I find you want (as Mr. ---- is pleased to hint,) to swear away my life, that is, the life
of your creditor, because he asks you for a debt.--The publick shall soon be acquainted with
this, to judge whether you are not fitter to be an Irish Evidence, than to be an Irish Peer.--I
defy and despise you.

'I am,

'Your determined adversary,

'R. S.'

BOSWELL. The noble Lord was no doubt Lord Tyrconnel. See Johnson's Works, viii. 140. Mr. Cust
is mentioned post, p. 170.

[470] 'Savage took all opportunities of conversing familiarly with those who were most conspicuous
at that time for their power or their influence; he watched their looser moments, and examined
their domestic behaviour with that acuteness which nature had given him, and which the uncommon
variety of his life had contributed to increase, and that inquisitiveness which must always
be produced in a vigorous mind by an absolute freedom from all pressing or domestic engagements.'
Johnson's Works, viii. 135.

[471] 'Thus he spent his time in mean expedients and tormenting suspense, living for the greatest
part in the fear of prosecutions from his creditors, and consequently skulking in obscure parts
of the town, of which he was no stranger to the remotest corners.' Ib. p. 165.

[472] Sir John Hawkins gives the world to understand, that Johnson, 'being an admirer of genteel
manners, was captivated by the address and demeanour of Savage, who, as to his exterior, was,
to a remarkable degree, accomplished.' Hawkins's Life, p. 52. But Sir John's notions of gentility
must appear somewhat ludicrous, from his stating the following circumstance as presumptive
evidence that Savage was a good swordsman: 'That he understood the exercise of a gentleman's
weapon, may be inferred from the use made of it in that rash encounter which is related in
his life.' The dexterity here alluded to was, that Savage, in a nocturnal fit of drunkenness,
stabbed a man at a coffee-house, and killed him; for which he was tried at the Old-Bailey,
and found guilty of murder.

Johnson, indeed, describes him as having 'a grave and manly deportment, a solemn dignity of
mien; but which, upon a nearer acquaintance, softened into an engaging easiness of manners.'
[Johnson's Works, viii. 187.] How highly Johnson admired him for that knowledge which he himself
so much cultivated, and what kindness he entertained for him, appears from the following lines
in the Gentleman's Magazine for April, 1738, which I am assured were written by Johnson:

'Ad RICARDUM SAVAGE.

'Humani studium generis cui pectore
  fervet
O colat humanum te foveatque
  genus.'

BOSWELL. The epigram is inscribed Ad Ricardum Savage, Arm. Humani Generis Amatorem. Gent. Mag.
viii. 210. 'He desired much to be alone, yet he always loved good talk, and often would get
behind the screen to hear it.' Great-Heart's account of Fearing; Pilgrim's Progress, Part II.
Harte was tutor to Lord Chesterfield's son. See post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea, and
March 30, 1781.

[474] 'Johnson has told me that whole nights have been spent by him and Savage in a perambulation
round the squares of Westminster, St. James's in particular, when all the money they could
both raise was less than sufficient to purchase for them the shelter and sordid comforts of
a night's cellar.' Hawkins's Johnson, P. 53. Where was Mrs. Johnson living at this time? This
perhaps was the time of which Johnson wrote, when, after telling of a silver cup which his
mother had bought him, and marked SAM. I., he says:--'The cup was one of the last pieces of
plate which dear Tetty sold in our distress.' Account of Johnson's Early Life, p. 18. Yet it
is not easy to understand how, if there was a lodging for her, there was not one for him. She
might have been living with friends. We have a statement by Hawkins (p. 89) that there was
'a temporary separation of Johnson from his wife.' He adds that, 'while he was in a lodging
in Fleet Street, she was harboured by a friend near the Tower.' This separation, he insinuates,
rose by an estrangement caused by Johnson's 'indifference in the discharge of the domestic
virtues.' It is far more likely that it rose from destitution.

Shenstone, in a letter written in 1743, gives a curious account of the streets of London through
which Johnson wandered. He says;--'London is really dangerous at this time; the pickpockets,
formerly content with mere filching, make no scruple to knock people down with bludgeons in
Fleet Street and the Strand, and that at no later hour than eight o'clock at night; but in
the Piazzas, Covent Garden, they come in large bodies, armed with couteaus, and attack whole
parties, so that the danger of coming out of the play-houses is of some weight in the opposite
scale, when I am disposed to go to them oftener than I ought.' Shenstone's Works (edit.), iii. 73.

[475] 'Savage lodged as much by accident as he dined, and passed the night sometimes in mean
houses, ... and sometimes, when he had not money to support even the expenses of these receptacles,
walked about the streets till he was weary, and lay down in the summer upon a bulk, or in the
winter, with his associates in poverty, among the ashes of a glass-house. In this manner were
passed those days and those nights which nature had enabled him to have employed in elevated
speculations, useful studies, or pleasing conversation.' Johnson's Works, viii. 159.

[476] See ante, p. 94.

[477] Cave was the purchaser of the copyright, and the following is a copy of Johnson's receipt
for the money:--'The 14th day of December, received of Mr. Ed. Cave the sum of fifteen guineas,
in full, for compiling and writing The Life of Richard Savage, Esq., deceased; and in full
for all materials thereto applied, and not found by the said Edward Cave. I say, received by
me, SAM. JOHNSON. Dec. 14, 1743.' WRIGHT. The title-page is as follows:--'An account of the
Life of Mr. Richard Savage, son of the Earl Rivers. London. Printed for J. Roberts, in Warwick-Lane.
MDCCXLIV. It reached a second edition in 1748, a third in 1767, and a fourth in 1769. A French
translation was published in 1771.

[478] Roberts published in 1745 Johnson's Observations on Macbeth. See Gent. Mag. xv. 112, 224.

[479] Horace, Ars Poetica l. 317.

[480] In the autumn of 1752. Northcote's Reynolds i. 52

[481] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd ed. p. 35 [p. 55. Aug. 19, 1773]. BOSWELL.

[482] 'mint of ecstasy:' Savage's Works (1777), ii. 91.

[483] 'He lives to build, not boast a generous race: No tenth transmitter of a foolish face.' Ib.

[484] 'The Bastard: A poem, inscribed with all due reverence to Mrs. Bret, once Countess of
Macclesfield. By Richard Savage, son of the late Earl Rivers. London, printed for T. Worrall,
1728.' Fol. first edition. P. CUNNINGHAM. Between Savage's character, as drawn by Johnson,
and Johnson himself there are many points of likeness. Each 'always preserved a steady confidence
in his own capacity,' and of each it might be said:--'Whatever faults may be imputed to him,
the virtue of suffering well cannot be denied him.' Each 'excelled in the arts of conversation
and therefore willingly practised them.' In Savage's refusal to enter a house till some clothes
had been taken away that had been left for him 'with some neglect of ceremonies,' we have the
counterpart of Johnson's throwing away the new pair of shoes that had been set at his door.
He mingled in cursory conversation with the same steadiness of attention as others apply to
a lecture.... His judgment was eminently exact both with regard to writings and to men. To
be humane, generous, and candid is a very high degree of merit in any case, but those qualities
deserve still greater praise when they are found in that condition which makes almost every
other man, for whatever reason, contemptuous, insolent, petulant, selfish, and brutal.' Johnson's
Works, viii. 107.

[486] In his old age he wrote as he had written in the vigour of his manhood:--'To the censure
of Collier ... he [Dryden] makes little reply; being at the age of sixty-eight attentive to
better things than the claps of a play-house.' Johnson's Works vii. 295. See post, April 29,
1773, and Sept. 21, 1777.

[487] Johnson, writing of the latter half of the seventeenth century, says:--'The playhouse
was abhorred by the Puritans, and avoided by those who desired the character of seriousness
or decency. A grave lawyer would have debased his dignity, and a young trader would have impaired
his credit, by appearing in those mansions of dissolute licentiousness.' Johnson's Works, vii.
270. The following lines in Churchill's Apology (Poems, i. 65), published in 1761, shew how
strong, even at that time, was the feeling against strolling players:--

'The strolling tribe, a despicable race, Like wand'ring Arabs shift from place to place. Vagrants
by law, to Justice open laid, They tremble, of the beadle's lash afraid, And fawning cringe,
for wretched means of life, To Madam May'ress, or his Worship's Wife.'

[488] Johnson himself recognises the change in the public estimation:--'In Dryden's time,'
he writes, 'the drama was very far from that universal approbation which it has now obtained.'
Works, vii. 270.

[489] Giffard was the manager of the theatre in Goodman's Fields, where Garrick, on Oct. 19,
1741, made his first appearance before a London audience. Murphy's Garrick, pp. 13, 16.

[490] 'Colonel Pennington said, Garrick sometimes failed in emphasis; as, for instance, in Hamlet,

"I will speak daggers to her; but use none;"

instead of

"I will speak daggers to her; but use none."'

Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 28, 1773.

[491] I suspect Dr. Taylor was inaccurate in this statement. The emphasis should be equally
upon shalt and not, as both concur to form the negative injunction; and false witness, like
the other acts prohibited in the Decalogue, should not be marked by any peculiar emphasis,
but only be distinctly enunciated. BOSWELL.

[492] This character of the Life of Savage was not written by Fielding as has been supposed,
but most probably by Ralph, who, as appears from the minutes of the partners of The Champion,
in the possession of Mr. Reed of Staple Inn, succeeded Fielding in his share of the paper,
before the date of that eulogium. BOSWELL. Ralph is mentioned in The Dunciad, iii. 165. A curious
account of him is given in Benjamin Franklin's Memoirs, i. 54-87 and 245.

[493] The late Francis Cockayne Cust, Esq., one of his Majesty's Counsel. BOSWELL.

[494] Savage's veracity was questioned, but with little reason; his accounts, though not indeed
always the same, were generally consistent. 'When he loved any man, he suppressed all his faults:
and, when he had been offended by him, concealed all his virtues: but his characters were generally
true so far as he proceeded; though it cannot be denied that his partiality might have sometimes
the effect of falsehood.' Johnson's Works, viii. 190.

[495] 1697. BOSWELL.

[496] Johnson's Works, viii. 98.

[497] The story on which Mr. Cust so much relies, that Savage was a supposititious child, not
the son of Lord Rivers and Lady Macclesfield, but the offspring of a shoemaker, introduced
in consequence of her real son's death, was, without doubt, grounded on the circumstance of
Lady Macclesfield having, in 1696, previously to the birth of Savage, had a daughter by the
Earl Rivers, who died in her infancy; a fact which was proved in the course of the proceedings
on Lord Macclesfield's Bill of Divorce. Most fictions of this kind have some admixture of truth
in them. MALONE. From The Earl of Macclesfield's Case, it appears that 'Anne, Countess of Macclesfield,
under the name of Madam Smith, in Fox Court, near Brook Street, Holborn, was delivered of a
male child on the 16th of January, 1696-7, who was baptized on the Monday following, the 18th,
and registered by the name of Richard, the son of John Smith, by Mr. Burbridge; and, from the
privacy, was supposed by Mr. Burbridge to be "a by-blow or bastard."' It also appears, that
during her delivery, the lady wore a mask; and that Mary Pegler, on the next day after the
baptism, took a male child, whose mother was called Madam Smith, from the house of Mrs. Pheasant,
in Fox Court [running from Brook Street in Gray's Inn Lane], who went by the name of Mrs. Lee.

Conformable to this statement is the entry in the register of St. Andrew's, Holborn, which
is as follows, and which unquestionably records the baptism of Richard Savage, to whom Lord
Rivers gave his own Christian name, prefixed to the assumed surname of his mother:--'Jan. 1696-7.
Richard, son of John Smith and Mary, in Fox Court, in Gray's Inn Lane, baptized the 18th.'
BINDLEY. According to Johnson's account Savage did not learn who his parents were till the
death of his nurse, who had always treated him as her son. Among her papers he found some letters
written by Lady Macclesfield's mother proving his origin. Johnson's Works, viii. 102. Why these
letters were not laid before the public is not stated. Johnson was one of the least credulous
of men, and he was convinced by Savage's story. Horace Walpole, too, does not seem to have
doubted it. Walpole's Letters, i. cv.

[498] Johnson's Works, viii. 97.

[499] Ib. p. 142.

[500] Johnson's Works, p. 101.

[501] According to Johnson's account (Johnson's Works, viii. 102), the shoemaker under whom
Savage was placed on trial as an apprentice was not the husband of his nurse.

[502] He was in his tenth year when she died. 'He had none to prosecute his claim, to shelter
him from oppression, or call in law to the assistance of justice.' Ib. p. 99.

[503] Johnson's companion appears to have persuaded that lofty-minded man, that he resembled
him in having a noble pride; for Johnson, after painting in strong colours the quarrel between
Lord Tyrconnel and Savage, asserts that 'the spirit of Mr. Savage, indeed, never suffered him
to solicit a reconciliation: he returned reproach for reproach, and insult for insult.' [Ib.
p. 141.] But the respectable gentleman to whom I have alluded, has in his possession a letter,
from Savage, after Lord Tyrconnel had discarded him, addressed to the Reverend Mr. Gilbert,
his Lordship's Chaplain, in which he requests him, in the humblest manner, to represent his
case to the Viscount. BOSWELL.

[504] 'How loved, how honoured once avails thee not, To whom related, or by whom begot.'

POPE'S Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady.

[505] Trusting to Savage's information, Johnson represents this unhappy man's being received
as a companion by Lord Tyrconnel, and pensioned by his Lordship, as if posteriour to Savage's
conviction and pardon. But I am assured, that Savage had received the voluntary bounty of Lord
Tyrconnel, and had been dismissed by him, long before the murder was committed, and that his
Lordship was very instrumental in procuring Savage's pardon, by his intercession with the Queen,
through Lady Hertford. If, therefore, he had been desirous of preventing the publication by
Savage, he would have left him to his fate. Indeed I must observe, that although Johnson mentions
that Lord Tyrconnel's patronage of Savage was 'upon his promise to lay aside his design of
exposing the cruelty of his mother,' [Johnson's Works, viii. 124], the great biographer has
forgotten that he himself has mentioned, that Savage's story had been told several years before
in The Plain Dealer; from which he quotes this strong saying of the generous Sir Richard Steele,
that 'the inhumanity of his mother had given him a right to find every good man his father.'
[Ib. p. 104.] At the same time it must be acknowledged, that Lady Macclesfield and her relations
might still wish that her story should not be brought into more conspicuous notice by the satirical
pen of Savage. BOSWELL.

[506] According to Johnson, she was at Bath when Savage's poem of The Bastard was published.
'She could not,' he wrote, 'enter the assembly-rooms or cross the walks without being saluted
with some lines from The Bastard. This was perhaps the first time that she ever discovered
a sense of shame, and on this occasion the power of wit was very conspicuous; the wretch who
had without scruple proclaimed herself an adulteress, and who had first endeavoured to starve
her son, then to transport him, and afterwards to hang him, was not able to bear the representation
of her own conduct; but fled from reproach, though she felt no pain from guilt, and left Bath
with the utmost haste to shelter herself among the crowds of London.' Johnson's Works, viii. 141.

[507] Miss Mason, after having forfeited the title of Lady Macclesfield by divorce, was married
to Colonel Brett, and, it is said, was well known in all the polite circles. Colley Cibber,
I am informed, had so high an opinion of her taste and judgement as to genteel life, and manners,
that he submitted every scene of his Careless Husband to Mrs. Brett's revisal and correction.
Colonel Brett was reported to be too free in his gallantry with his Lady's maid. Mrs. Brett
came into a room one day in her own house, and found the Colonel and her maid both fast asleep
in two chairs. She tied a white handkerchief round her husband's neck, which was a sufficient
proof that she had discovered his intrigue; but she never at any time took notice of it to
him. This incident, as I am told, gave occasion to the well-wrought scene of Sir Charles and
Lady Easy and Edging. BOSWELL. Lady Macclesfield died 1753, aged above 80. Her eldest daughter,
by Col. Brett, was, for the few last months of his life, the mistress of George I, (Walpole's
Reminiscences, cv.) Her marriage ten years after her royal lover's death is thus announced
in the Gent. Mag., 1737:--'Sept. 17. Sir W. Leman, of Northall, Bart., to Miss Brett [Britt]
of Bond Street, an heiress;' and again next month--'Oct. 8. Sir William Leman, of Northall,
Baronet, to Miss Brett, half sister to Mr. Savage, son to the late Earl Rivers;' for the difference
of date I know not how to account; but the second insertion was, no doubt, made by Savage to
countenance his own pretensions. CROKER.

[508] 'Among the names of subscribers to the Harleian Miscellany there occurs that of "Sarah
Johnson, bookseller in Lichfield."' Johnsoniana, p. 466.

[509] A brief account of Oldys is given in the Gent. Mag. liv. 161, 260. Like so many of his
fellows he was thrown into the Fleet. 'After poor Oldys's release, such was his affection for
the place that he constantly spent his evenings there.'

[510] In the Feb. number of the Gent. Mag. for this year (p. 112) is the following advertisement:--'Speedily
will be published (price 1s.) Miscellaneous Observations on the Tragedy of Macbeth, with remarks
on Sir T.H.'s edition of Shakespear; to which is affix'd proposals for a new edition of Shakespear,
with a specimen. Printed for J. Roberts in Warwick Lane.' In the March number (p. 114), under
the date of March 31, it is announced that it will be published on April 6. In spite of the
two advertisements, and the title-page which agrees with the advertisements, I believe that
the Proposals were not published till eleven years later (see post, end of 1756). I cannot
hear of any copy of the Miscellaneous Observations which contains them. The advertisement is
a third time repeated in the April number of the Gent. Mag. for 1745 (p. 224), but the Proposals
are not this time mentioned. Tom Davies the bookseller gives 1756 as the date of their publication
(Misc. and Fugitive Pieces, ii. 87). Perhaps Johnson or the booksellers were discouraged by
Hanmer's Shakespeare as well as by Warburton's. Johnson at the end of the Miscellaneous Observations
says:--'After the foregoing pages were printed, the late edition of Shakespeare ascribed to
Sir T. H. fell into my hands.'

[511] 'The excellence of the edition proved to be by no means proportionate to the arrogance
of the editor.' Cambridge Shakespeare, i. xxxiv.

[512] 'When you see Mr. Johnson pray [give] my compliments, and tell him I esteem him as a
great genius--quite lost both to himself and the world.' Gilbert Walmesley to Garrick, Nov.
3, 1746. Garrick Correspondence, i. 45. Mr. Walmesley's letter does not shew that Johnson was
idle. The old man had expected great things from him. 'I have great hopes,' he had written
in 1737 (see ante, p. 102), 'that he will turn out a fine tragedy writer.' In the nine years
in which Johnson had been in town he had done, no doubt, much admirable work; but by his poem
of London only was he known to the public. His Life of Savage did not bear his name. His Observations
on Macbeth were published in April, 1745; his Plan of the Dictionary in 1747 . What was Johnson
doing meanwhile? Boswell conjectures that he was engaged on his Shakespeare and his Dictionary.
That he went on working at his Shakespeare when the prospect of publishing was so remote that
he could not issue his proposals is very unlikely. That he had been for some time engaged on
his Dictionary before he addressed Lord Chesterfield is shewn by the opening sentences of the
Plan. Mr. Croker's conjecture that he was absent or concealed on account of some difficulties
which had arisen through the rebellion of 1745 is absurd. At no time of his life had he been
an ardent Jacobite. 'He had never in his life been in a nonjuring meeting-house;' post, June
9, 1784.

For the fact that he wrote very little, if indeed anything, in the Gent. Mag. during these
years more than one reason may be given. In the first place, public affairs take up an unusual
amount of room in its columns. Thus in the number for Dec. 1745 we read:--'Our readers being
too much alarmed by the present rebellion to relish with their usual delight the Debates in
the Senate of Lilliput we shall postpone them for a season, that we may be able to furnish
out a fuller entertainment of what we find to be more suitable to their present taste.' In
the Preface it is stated:--'We have sold more of our books than we desire for several months
past, and are heartily sorry for the occasion of it, the present troubles.' During these years
then much less space was given to literature. But besides this, Johnson likely enough refused
to write for the Magazine when it shewed itself strongly Hanoverian. He would highly disapprove
of A New Protestant Litany, which was written after the following fashion:--

'May Spaniards, or French, all who join with a Highland,
In disturbing the peace of this our bless'd island,
Meet tempests on sea and halters on dry land.
    We beseech Thee to hear us, good Lord.'

Gent. Mag. xv. 551.

He would be disgusted the following year at seeing the Duke of Cumberland praised as 'the greatest
man alive' (Gent. Mag. xvi. 235), and sung in verse that would have almost disgraced Cibber
(p. 36). It is remarkable that there is no mention of Johnson's Plan of a Dictionary in the
Magazine. Perhaps some coolness had risen between him and Cave.

[513] Boswell proceeds to mention six.

[514] In Mrs. Williams's Miscellanies, in which this paraphrase is inserted, it is stated that
the Latin epitaph was written by Dr. Freind. I do not think that the English version is by
Johnson. I should be sorry to ascribe to him such lines as:--

'Illustrious age! how bright thy glories shone, When Hanmer filled the chair--and Anne the throne.'

[515] In the Observations, Johnson, writing of Hanmer, says:--'Surely the weapons of criticism
ought not to be blunted against an editor who can imagine that he is restoring poetry while
he is amusing himself with alterations like these:--

For,--This is the sergeant
  Who like a good and hardy soldier fought;
--This is the sergeant who
  Like a right good and hardy soldier fought.

Such harmless industry may surely be forgiven, if it cannot be praised; may he therefore never
want a monosyllable who can use it with such wonderful dexterity.' Johnson's Works, v. 93.
In his Preface to Shakespeare published eighteen years later, he describes Hanmer as 'A man,
in my opinion, eminently qualified by nature for such studies.' Ib. p. 139. The editors of
the Cambridge Shakespeare (i. xxxii) thus write of Hanmer:--

'A country gentleman of great ingenuity and lively fancy, but with no knowledge of older literature,
no taste for research, and no ear for the rhythm of earlier English verse, amused his leisure
hours by scribbling down his own and his friend's guesses in Pope's Shakespeare.'

[516] In the Universal Visiter, to which Johnson contributed, the mark which is affixed to
some pieces unquestionably his, is also found subjoined to others, of which he certainly was
not the author. The mark therefore will not ascertain the poems in question to have been written
by him. They were probably the productions of Hawkesworth, who, it is believed, was afflicted
with the gout. MALONE.

It is most unlikely that Johnson wrote such poor poems as these. I shall not easily be persuaded
that the following lines are his:--

'Love warbles in the vocal groves,
  And vegetation paints the plain.'

'And love and hate alike implore
  The skies--"That Stella mourn no more."'

'The Winter's Walk' has two good lines, but these may have been supplied by Johnson. The lines
to 'Lyce, an elderly Lady,' would, if written by him, have been taken as a satire on his wife.

[517] See post under Sept. 18, 1783.

[518] See Johnson's Works, vii. 4, 34.

[519] Boswell italicises conceits to shew that he is using it in the sense in which Johnson
uses it in his criticism of Cowley:--'These conceits Addison calls mixed wit; that is, wit
which consists of thoughts true in one sense of the expression and false in the other.' Ib. vii 35.

[520] Namby Pamby was the name given to Ambrose Philips by Pope Ib. viii. 395

[521] Malone most likely is meant. Mr. Croker says:--'Johnson has "indifferently" in the sense
of "without concern" in his Dictionary, with this example from Shakespeare, "And I will look
on death indifferently."' Johnson however here defines indifferently as in a neutral state;
without wish or aversion; which is not the same as without concern. The passage, which is from
Julius Caesar, i. 2, is not correctly given. It is--

'Set honour in one eye and death i' the other And I will look on both indifferently.'

We may compare Johnson's use of indifferent in his Letter to Chesterfield, post, Feb. 7, 1755:--'The
notice which you have been pleased to take of my labours ... has been delayed till I am indifferent,
and cannot enjoy it.'

[522] 'Radcliffe, when quite a boy, had been engaged in the rebellion of 1715, and being attainted
had escaped from Newgate.... During the insurrection [of 1745], having been captured on board
a French vessel bound for Scotland, he was arraigned on his original sentence which had slumbered
so long. The only trial now conceded to him was confined to his identity. For such a course
there was no precedent, except in the case of Sir Walter Raleigh, which had brought shame upon
the reign of James I.' Campbell's Chancellors (edit. 1846), v. 108. Campbell adds, 'his execution,
I think, reflects great disgrace upon Lord Hardwicke [the Lord Chancellor].'

[523] In the original end.

[524] "These verses are somewhat too severe on the extraordinary person who is the chief figure
in them, for he was undoubtedly brave. His pleasantry during his solemn trial (in which, by
the way, I have heard Mr. David Hume observe, that we have one of the very few speeches of
Mr. Murray, now Earl of Mansfield, authentically given) was very remarkable. When asked if
he had any questions to put to Sir Everard Fawkener, who was one of the strongest witnesses
against him, he answered, 'I only wish him joy of his young wife.' And after sentence of death,
in the horrible terms in cases of treason, was pronounced upon him, and he was retiring from
the bar, he said, 'Fare you well, my Lords, we shall not all meet again in one place.' He behaved
with perfect composure at his execution, and called out 'Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori?'

'What joys, what glories round him wait, Who bravely for his country dies!"

FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, iii.2. 13.

BOSWELL.

'Old Lovat was beheaded yesterday,' wrote Horace Walpole on April 10, 1747, 'and died extremely
well: without passion, affectation, buffoonery, or timidity; his behaviour was natural and
intrepid.' Letters, ii. 77.

[525] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[526] My friend, Mr. Courtenay, whose eulogy on Johnson's Latin Poetry has been inserted in
this Work [ante, p. 62], is no less happy in praising his English Poetry.

But hark, he sings! the strain ev'n Pope admires; Indignant virtue her own bard inspires. Sublime
as juvenal he pours his lays, And with the Roman shares congenial praise;-- In glowing numbers
now he fires the age, And Shakspeare's sun relumes the clouded stage.

BOSWELL.

[527] The play is by Ambrose Philips. 'It was concluded with the most successful Epilogue that
was ever yet spoken on the English theatre. The three first nights it was recited twice; and
not only continued to be demanded through the run, as it is termed, of the play; but, whenever
it is recalled to the stage, where by peculiar fortune, though a copy from the French, it yet
keeps its place, the Epilogue is still expected, and is still spoken.' Johnson's Works, viii.
389. See post, April 21, 1773, note on Eustace Budgel. The Epilogue is given in vol. v. p.
228 of Bonn's Addison, and the great success that it met with is described in The Spectator,
No. 341.

[528] Such poor stuff as the following is certainly not by Johnson:--

'Let musick sound the voice of joy!
  Or mirth repeat the jocund tale;
Let Love his wanton wiles employ,
  And o'er the season wine prevail.'

[529] 'Dodsley first mentioned to me the scheme of an English Dictionary; but I had long thought
of it.' Post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[530] It would seem from the passage to which Boswell refers that Pope had wished that Johnson
should undertake the Dictionary. Johnson, in mentioning Pope, says:--'Of whom I may be justified
in affirming that were he still alive, solicitous as he was for the success of this work, he
would not be displeased that I have undertaken it.' Works, v. 20. As Pope died on May 30, 1744,
this renders it likely that the work was begun earlier than Boswell thought.

[531] In the title-page of the first edition after the name of Hirch comes that of L. Hawes.

[532] 'During the progress of the work he had received at different times the amount of his
contract; and when his receipts were produced to him at a tavern-dinner given by the booksellers,
it appeared that he had been paid a hundred pounds and upwards more than his due.' Murphy's
Johnson. p. 78. See post, beginning of 1756.

[533] 'The truth is, that the several situations which I have been in having made me long the
plastron [butt] of dedications, I am become as callous to flattery as some people are to abuse.'
Lord Chesterfield, date of Dec. 15, 1755; Chesterfield's Misc. Works, iv. 266.

[534] September 22, 1777, going from Ashbourne in Derbyshire, to see Islam. BOSWELL.

[535] Boswell here says too much, as the following passages in the Plan prove:--'Who upon this
survey can forbear to wish that these fundamental atoms of our speech might obtain the firmness
and immutability of the primogenial and constituent particles of matter?' 'Those translators
who, for want of understanding the characteristical difference of tongues, have formed a chaotick
dialect of heterogeneous phrases;' 'In one part refinement will be subtilised beyond exactness,
and evidence dilated in another beyond perspicuity.' Johnson's Works, v. 12, 21, 22.

[536] Ausonius, Epigram i. 12.

[537] Whitehead in 1757 succeeded Colley Cibber as poet-laureate, and dying in 1785 was followed
by Thomas Warton. From Warton the line of succession is Pye, Southey, Wordsworth, Tennyson.
See post, under June 13, 1763.

[538] Hawkins (Life, p. 176) likewise says that the manuscript passed through Whitehead and
'other hands' before it reached Chesterfield. Mr. Croker had seen 'a draft of the prospectus
carefully written by an amanuensis, but signed in great form by Johnson's own hand. It was
evidently that which was laid before Lord Chesterfield. Some useful remarks are made in his
lordship's hand, and some in another. Johnson adopted all these suggestions.'

[539] This poor piece of criticism confirms what Johnson said of Lord Orrery:--'He grasped
at more than his abilities could reach; tried to pass for a better talker, a better writer,
and a better thinker that he was.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22, 1773. See post, under April
7, 1778.

[540] Birch, MSS. Brit. Mus. 4303. BOSWELL.

[541] 'When I survey the Plan which I have laid before you, I cannot, my Lord, but confess
that I am frighted at its extent, and, like the soldiers of Caesar, look on Britain as a new
world, which it is almost madness to invade.' Johnson's Works, v. 21.

[542] There might be applied to him what he said of Pope:--"Self-confidence is the first requisite
to great undertakings. He, indeed, who forms his opinion of himself in solitude without knowing
the powers of other men, is very liable to error; but it was the felicity of Pope to rate himself
at his real value." Johnson's Works, viii, 237.

[543] 'For the Teutonick etymologies I am commonly indebted to Junius and Skinner.... Junius
appears to have excelled in extent of learning and Skinner in rectitude of understanding....
Skinner is often ignorant, but never ridiculous: Junius is always full of knowledge, but his
variety distracts his judgment, and his learning is very frequently disgraced by his absurdities.'
Ib. v. 29. Francis Junius the younger was born at Heidelberg in 1589, and died at Windsor,
at the house of his nephew Isaac Vossius, in 1678. His Etymologicum Anglicanum was not published
till 1743. Stephen Skinner, M.D., was born in 1623, and died in 1667. His Etymologicon Linguae
Anglicanae was published in 1671. Knight's Eng. Cycle.

[544] Thomas Richards published in 1753 Antiquae Linguae Britannicae Thesaurus, to which is
prefixed a Welsh Grammar and a collection of British proverbs.

[545] See Sir John Hawkins's Life of Johnson [p. 171], BOSWELL.

[546] 'The faults of the book resolve themselves, for the most part, into one great fault.
Johnson was a wretched etymologist.' Macaulay's Misc. Writings, p. 382. See post, May 13, 1778,
for mention of Horne Tooke's criticism of Johnson's etymologies.

[547] 'The etymology, so far as it is yet known, was easily found in the volumes where it is
particularly and professedly delivered ... But to COLLECT the WORDS of our language was a task
of greater difficulty: the deficiency of dictionaries was immediately apparent; and when they
were exhausted, what was yet wanting must be sought by fortuitous and unguided excursions into
books, and gleaned as industry should find, or chance should offer it, in the boundless chaos
of a living speech.' Johnson's Works, v. 31.

[548] See post, under April 10, 1776. BOSWELL.

[549] 'Mr. Macbean,' said Johnson in 1778, 'is a man of great learning, and for his learning
I respect him, and I wish to serve him. He knows many languages, and knows them well; but he
knows nothing of life. I advised him to write a geographical dictionary; but I have lost all
hopes of his ever doing anything properly, since I found he gave as much labour to Capua as
to Rome.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i, 114. See post beginning of 1773, and Oct 24, 1780.

[550] Boswell is speaking of the book published under the name of Cibber mentioned above, but
'entirely compiled,' according to Johnson, by Shiels. See post, April 10, 1776.

[551] See Piozzi Letters, i. 312, and post, May 21, 1775, note.

[552] 'We ourselves, not without labour and risk, lately discovered Gough Square.... and on
the second day of search the very House there, wherein the English Dictionary was composed.
It is the first or corner house on the right hand, as you enter through the arched way from
the North-west ... It is a stout, old-fashioned, oak-balustraded house: "I have spent many
a pound and penny on it since then," said the worthy Landlord: "here, you see, this bedroom
was the Doctor's study; that was the garden" (a plot of delved ground somewhat larger than
a bed-quilt) "where he walked for exercise; these three garret bedrooms" (where his three [six]
copyists sat and wrote) "were the place he kept his--pupils in": Tempus edax rerum! Yet ferax
also: for our friend now added, with a wistful look, which strove to seem merely historical:
"I let it all in lodgings, to respectable gentlemen; by the quarter or the month; it's all
one to me."--"To me also," whispered the ghost of Samuel, as we went pensively our ways.' Carlyle's
Miscellanies, edit, of 1872, iv. 112.

[553] Boswell's account of the manner in which Johnson compiled his Dictionary is confused
and erroneous. He began his task (as he himself expressly described to me), by devoting his
first care to a diligent perusal of all such English writers as were most correct in their
language, and under every sentence which he meant to quote he drew a line, and noted in the
margin the first letter of the word under which it was to occur. He then delivered these books
to his clerks, who transcribed each sentence on a separate slip of paper, and arranged the
same under the word referred to. By these means he collected the several words and their different
significations; and when the whole arrangement was alphabetically formed, he gave the definitions
of their meanings, and collected their etymologies from Skinner, Junius, and other writers
on the subject. PERCY.

[554] 'The books he used for this purpose were what he had in his own collection, a copious
but a miserably ragged one, and all such as he could borrow; which latter, if ever they came
back to those that lent them, were so defaced as to be scarce worth owning, and yet some of
his friends were glad to receive and entertain them as curiosities.' Hawkins, p. 175.

[555] In the copy that he thus marked of Sir Matthew Hale's Primitive Origination of Mankind,
opposite the passage where it is stated, that 'Averroes says that if the world were not eternal
... it could never have been at all, because an eternal duration must necessarily have anteceded
the first production of the world,' he has written:--'This argument will hold good equally
against the writing that I now write.'

[556] Boswell must mean 'whose writings taken as a whole had a tendency,' &c. Johnson quotes
Dryden, and of Dryden he says:--'Of the mind that can trade in corruption, and can deliberately
pollute itself with ideal wickedness for the sake of spreading the contagion in society, I
wish not to conceal or excuse the depravity. Such degradation of the dignity of genius, such
abuse of superlative abilities, cannot be contemplated but with grief and indignation. What
consolation can be had Dryden has afforded by living to repent, and to testify his repentance.'
Johnson's Works, vii. 293. He quotes Congreve, and of Congreve he says: 'It is acknowledged,
with universal conviction, that the perusal of his works will make no man better; and that
their ultimate effect is to represent pleasure in alliance with vice, and to relax those obligations
by which life ought to be regulated.' Ib. viii. 28. He would not quote Dr. Clarke, much as
he admired him, because he was not sound upon the doctrine of the Trinity. Post, Dec., 1784, note.

[557] In the Plan to the Dictionary, written in 1747, he describes his task as one that 'may
be successfully performed without any higher quality than that of bearing burdens with dull
patience, and beating the track of the alphabet with sluggish resolution.' Works, v. 1. He
told Dr. Blacklock that 'it was easier to him to write poetry than to compose his Dictionary.
His mind was less on the stretch in doing the one than the other.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug.
17, 1773.

[558] The well-known picture of the company at Tunbridge Wells in Aug. 1748, with the references
in Richardson's own writing, is given as a frontispiece to vol. iii. of Richardson's Correspondence.
There can be no doubt that the figure marked by Richardson as Dr. Johnson is not Samuel Johnson,
who did not receive a doctor's degree till more than four years after Richardson's death.

[559] 'Johnson hardly ever spoke of Bathurst without tears in his eyes.' Murphy's Johnson,
p. 56. Mrs. Piozzi, after recording an anecdote that he had related to her of his childhood,
continues:--'"I cannot imagine," said he, "what makes me talk of myself to you so, for I really
never mentioned this foolish story to anybody except Dr. Taylor, not even to my dear, dear
Bathurst, whom I loved better than ever I loved any human creature; but poor Bathurst is dead!"
Here a long pause and a few tears ensued.' Piozzi's Anec., p. 18. Another day he said to her:--'Dear
Bathurst was a man to my very heart's content: he hated a fool, and he hated a rogue, and he
hated a Whig; he was a very good hater.' Ib. p. 83. In his Meditations on Easter-Day, 1764,
he records:--'After sermon I recommended Tetty in a prayer by herself; and my father, mother,
brother, and Bathurst in another.' Pr. and Med., p. 54. See also post, under March 18, 1752,
and 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[560] Of Hawkesworth Johnson thus wrote: 'An account of Dr. Swift has been already collected,
with great diligence and acuteness, by Dr. Hawkesworth, according to a scheme which I laid
before him in the intimacy of our friendship. I cannot therefore be expected to say much of
a life concerning which I had long since communicated my thoughts to a man capable of dignifying
his narrations with so much elegance of language and force of sentiment.' Johnson's Works,
viii. 192. Hawkesworth was an imitator of Johnson's style; post, under Jan. 1, 1753.

[561] He was afterwards for several years Chairman of the Middlesex justices, and upon occasion
of presenting an address to the King, accepted the usual offer of Knighthood. He is authour
of 'A History of Musick,' in five volumes in quarto. By assiduous attendance upon Johnson in
his last illness, he obtained the office of one of his executors; in consequence of which,
the booksellers of London employed him to publish an edition of Dr. Johnson's works, and to
write his Life. BOSWELL. This description of Hawkins, as 'Mr. John Hawkins, an attorney,' is
a reply to his description of Boswell as 'Mr. James Boswell, a native of Scotland.' Hawkins's
Johnson, p. 472. According to Miss Hawkins, 'Boswell complained to her father of the manner
in which he was described. Where was the offence? It was one of those which a complainant hardly
dares to embody in words; he would only repeat, "Well, but Mr. James Boswell, surely, surely,
Mr. James Boswell"' Miss Hawkins's Memoirs, i. 235. Boswell in thus styling Hawkins remembered
no doubt Johnson's sarcasm against attorneys. See post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea.
Hawkins's edition of Johnson's Works was published in 1787-9, in 13 vols., 8vo., the last two
vols. being edited by Stockdale. In vol. xi. is a collection of Johnson's sayings, under the
name of Apothegms, many of which I quote in my notes.

[562] Boswell, it is clear, has taken his account of the club from Hawkins, who writes:--'Johnson
had, in the winter of 1749, formed a club that met weekly at the King's Head, a famous beef-steak
house in Ivy Lane, near St. Paul's, every Tuesday evening. Thither he constantly resorted with
a disposition to please and be pleased. Our conversations seldom began till after a supper
so very solid and substantial as led us to think that with him it was a dinner.

'By the help of this refection, and no other incentive to hilarity than lemonade, Johnson was
in a short time after our assembling transformed into a new creature; his habitual melancholy
and lassitude of spirit gave way; his countenance brightened.' Hawkins's Johnson, pp. 219,
250. Other parts of Hawkins's account do not agree with passages in Johnson's letters to Mrs.
Thrale written in 1783-4. 'I dined about a fortnight ago with three old friends [Hawkins, Ryland,
and Payne]; we had not met together for thirty years. In the thirty years two of our set have
died.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 339. 'We used to meet weekly about the year fifty.' Ib. p. 361.
'The people whom I mentioned in my letter are the remnant of a little club that used to meet
in Ivy Lane about three and thirty years ago, out of which we have lost Hawkesworth and Dyer,
the rest are yet on this side the grave.' Ib. p. 363. Hawkins says the club broke up about
1756 (Life, p. 361). Johnson in the first of the passages says they had not met at all for
thirty years--that is to say, not since 1753; while in the last two passages he implies that
their weekly meetings came to an end about 1751. I cannot understand moreover how, if Bathurst,
'his beloved friend,' belonged to the club, Johnson should have forgotten it. Bathurst died
in the expedition to the Havannah about 1762. Two others of those given in Hawkins's list were
certainly dead by 1783. M'Ghie, who died while the club existed (Ib. p. 361), and Dr. Salter.
A writer in the Builder (Dec. 1884) says, 'The King's Head was burnt down twenty-five years
ago, but the cellarage remains beneath No. 4, Alldis's dining-rooms, on the eastern side.'

[563] Tom Tyers said that Johnson 'in one night composed, after finishing an evening in Holborn,
his Hermit of Teneriffe.' Gent. Mag. for 1784, p. 901. The high value that he set on this piece
may be accounted for in his own words. 'Many causes may vitiate a writer's judgment of his
own works.... What has been produced without toilsome efforts is considered with delight, as
a proof of vigorous faculties and fertile invention.' Johnson's Works, vii. 110. He had said
much the same thirty years earlier in The Rambler (No. 21).

[564] 'On January 9 was published, long wished, another satire from Juvenal, by the author
of London.' Gent. Mag. xviii. 598, 9.

[565] Sir John Hawkins, with solemn inaccuracy, represents this poem as a consequence of the
indifferent reception of his tragedy. But the fact is, that the poem was published on the 9th
of January, and the tragedy was not acted till the 6th of the February following. BOSWELL.
Hawkins perhaps implies what Boswell says that he represents; but if so, he implies it by denying
it. Hawkins's Johnson, p. 201.

[566] 'I wrote,' he said, 'the first seventy lines in The Vanity of Human Wishes in the course
of one morning in that small house beyond the church at Hampstead.' Works (1787), xi. 212.

[567] See post under Feb. 15, 1766. That Johnson did not think that in hasty composition there
is any great merit, is shewn by The Rambler, No. 169, entitled Labour necessary to excellence.

[568] 'Nov. 25, 1748. I received of Mr. Dodsley fifteen guineas, for which assign to him the
right of copy of an imitation of the Tenth Satire of Juvenal, written by me; reserving to myself
the right of printing one edition. SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, 29 June, 1786. A true copy, from the original in Dr. Johnson's handwriting. JAS. DODSLEY.
BOSWELL.

London was sold at a shilling a copy. Johnson was paid at the rate of about 9-1/2d. a line
for this poem; for The Vanity of Human Wishes at the rate of about 10d. a line. Dryden by his
engagement with Jacob Tonson (see Johnson's Works, vii. 298) undertook to furnish 10,000 verses
at a little over 6d. a verse. Goldsmith was paid for The Traveller L21, or about 11-1/2d. a line.

[569] He never published it. See post under Dec. 9, 1784.

[570] 'Jan. 9, 1821. Read Johnson's Vanity of Human Wishes,--all the examples and mode of giving
them sublime, as well as the latter part, with the exception of an occasional couplet. I do
not so much admire the opening. The first line, 'Let observation,' etc., is certainly heavy
and useless. But 'tis a grand poem--and so true!--true as the Tenth of Juvenal himself. The
lapse of ages changes all things--time--language-- the earth--the bounds of the sea--the stars
of the sky, and everything "about, around, and underneath" man, except man himself. The infinite
variety of lives conduct but to death, and the infinity of wishes lead but to disappointment.'
Byron, vol. v. p. 66. WRIGHT. Sir Walter Scott said 'that he had more pleasure in reading London,
and The Vanity of Human Wishes than any other poetical composition he could mention.' Lockhart's
Scott, iii. 269.

[571] From Mr. Langton. BOSWELL.

[572] In this poem one of the instances mentioned of unfortunate learned men is Lydiat:

'Hear Lydiat's life, and Galileo's end.'

The history of Lydiat being little known, the following account of him may be acceptable to
many of my readers. It appeared as a note in the Supplement to the Gent. Mag. for 1748, in
which some passages extracted from Johnson's poem were inserted, and it should have been added
in the subsequent editions.--A very learned divine and mathematician, fellow of New College,
Oxon, and Rector of Okerton, near Banbury. He wrote, among many others, a Latin treatise De
Natura call, etc., in which he attacked the sentiments of Scaliger and Aristotle, not bearing
to hear it urged, that some things are true in philosophy and false in divinity. He made above
600 Sermons on the harmony of the Evangelists. Being unsuccessful in publishing his works,
he lay in the prison of Bocardo at Oxford, and in the King's Bench, till Bishop Usher, Dr.
Laud, Sir William Boswell, and Dr. Pink, released him by paying his debts. He petitioned King
Charles I. to be sent into Ethiopia, etc., to procure MSS. Having spoken in favour of Monarchy
and bishops, he was plundered by the parliament forces, and twice carried away prisoner from
his rectory; and afterwards had not a shirt to shift him in three months, without he borrowed
it, and died very poor in 1646. BOSWELL.

[573] Psalm xc. 12.

[574] In the original Inquirer.

[575] '... nonumque prematur in annum.' Horace, Ars Poet. l. 388.

[576] 'Of all authors,' wrote Johnson, 'those are the most wretched who exhibit their productions
on the theatre, and who are to propitiate first the manager and then the public. Many an humble
visitant have I followed to the doors of these lords of the drama, seen him touch the knocker
with a shaking hand, and after long deliberation adventure to solicit entrance by a single
knock.' Works, v. 360.

[577] Mahomet was, in fact, played by Mr. Barry, and Demetrius by Mr. Garrick: but probably
at this time the parts were not yet cast. BOSWELL.

[578] The expression used by Dr. Adams was 'soothed.' I should rather think the audience was
awed by the extraordinary spirit and dignity of the following lines:

'Be this at least his praise, be this his pride, To force applause no modern arts are tried:
Should partial catcalls all his hopes confound, He bids no trumpet quell the fatal sound; Should
welcome sleep relieve the weary wit, He rolls no thunders o'er the drowsy pit; No snares to
captivate the judgement spreads, Nor bribes your eyes to prejudice your heads. Unmov'd, though
witlings sneer and rivals rail, Studious to please, yet not asham'd to fail, He scorns the
meek address, the suppliant strain, With merit needless, and without it vain; In Reason, Nature,
Truth, he dares to trust; Ye fops be silent, and ye wits be just!'

BOSWELL.

[579] Johnson said of Mrs. Pritchard's playing in general that 'it was quite mechanical;' post,
April 7, 1775. See also post under Sept. 30, 1783.

[580] 'The strangling of Irene in the view of the audience was suggested by Mr. Garrick.' Davies's
Garrick, i. 128. Dryden in his Essay of Dramatick Poesie (edit. 1701, i. 13), says:--'I have
observed that in all our tragedies the audience cannot forbear laughing when the actors are
to die; 'tis the most comick part of the whole play.' 'Suppose your Piece admitted, acted;
one single ill-natured jest from the pit is sufficient to cancel all your labours.' Goldsmith's
Present State of Polite Learning, chap. x.

[581] In her last speech two of the seven lines are very bad:--

'Guilt and despair, pale spectres! grin around me, And stun me with the yellings of damnation!'

Act v. sc. 9.

[582] Murphy referring to Boswell's statement says:--'The Epilogue, we are told in a late publication,
was written by Sir William Young. This is a new discovery, but by no means probable. When the
appendages to a Dramatic Performance are not assigned to a friend, or an unknown hand, or a
person of fashion, they are always supposed to be written by the author of the Play.' Murphy's
Johnson, p. 154. He overlooks altogether the statement in the Gent. Mag. (xix. 85) that the
Epilogue is 'by another hand.' Mr. Croker points out that the words 'as Johnson informed me'
first appear in the second edition. The wonder is that Johnson accepted this Epilogue, which
is a little coarse and a little profane. Yonge was Secretary at War in Walpole's ministry.
Walpole said of him 'that nothing but Yonge's character could keep down his parts, and nothing
but his parts support his character.' Horace Walpole's Letters, i. 98, note.

[583] I know not what Sir John Hawkins means by the cold reception of Irene. (See note, p.
192.) I was at the first representation, and most of the subsequent. It was much applauded
the first night, particularly the speech on to-morrow [Act iii. sc. 2]. It ran nine nights
at least. It did not indeed become a stock-play, but there was not the least opposition during
the representation, except the first night in the last act, where Irene was to be strangled
on the stage, which John could not bear, though a dramatick poet may stab or slay by hundreds.
The bow-string was not a Christian nor an ancient Greek or Roman death. But this offence was
removed after the first night, and Irene went off the stage to be strangled.--BURNEY.

[584] According to the Gent. Mag. (xix. 76) 'it was acted from Monday, Feb. 6, to Monday, Feb.
20, inclusive.' A letter in the Garrick Corres, (i. 32), dated April 3, 1745, seems to shew
that so long a run was uncommon. The writer addressing Garrick says:--'You have now performed
it [Tancred] for nine nights; consider the part, and whether nature can well support the frequent
repetition of such shocks. Murphy's Johnson, p. 52.

[585] Mr. Croker says that 'it appears by a MS. note in Isaac Reed's copy of Murphy's Life,
that the receipts of the third, sixth, and ninth nights, after deducting sixty guineas a night
for the expenses of the house, amounted to L195 17s.: Johnson cleared therefore, with the copyright,
very nearly L300.' Irene was sold at the price of 1s. 6d. a copy (Gent. Mag. xix. 96); so that
Dodsley must have looked for a very large sale.

[586] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection for Johnson's estimate of Irene in later life.

[587] Aaron Hill (vol. ii. p. 355), in a letter to Mr. Mallett, gives the following account
of Irene after having seen it: 'I was at the anomalous Mr. Johnson's benefit, and found the
play his proper representative; strong sense ungraced by sweetness or decorum.' BOSWELL.

[588] See ante, p. 102

[589] Murphy (Life, p. 53) says that some years afterwards, when he knew Johnson to be in distress,
he asked Garrick why he did not produce another tragedy for his Lichfield friend? Garrick's
answer was remarkable: "When Johnson writes tragedy, declamation roars, and passion sleeps:
when Shakespeare wrote; he dipped his pen in his own heart." Johnson was perhaps aware of the
causes of his failure as a tragedy-writer. In his criticism of Addison's Cato he says: 'Of
Cato it has been not unjustly determined that it is rather a poem in dialogue than a drama,
rather a succession of just sentiments in elegant language than a representation of natural
affections, or any state probable or possible in human life ... The events are expected without
solicitude, and are remembered without joy or sorrow.... Its success has introduced or confirmed
among us the use of dialogue too declamatory, of unaffecting elegance and chill philosophy.'
Works, vii. 456. 'Johnson thought: Cato the best model of tragedy we had; yet he used to say,
of all things the most ridiculous would be to see a girl cry at the representation of it.'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 207. Cato, if neglected, has added at least eight 'habitual quotations'
to the language (see Thackeray's English Humourists, p. 98). Irene has perhaps not added a
single one. It has neverthingless some quotable lines, such as--

'Crowds that hide a monarch from
  himself.' Act i. sc. 4.
'To cant ... of reason to a lover.'
  Act iii. sc. 1.
'When e'en as love was breaking
  off from wonder,
And tender accents quiver'd on my
  lips.' Ib.
'And fate lies crowded in a narrow
  space.' Act iii. sc. 6.
'Reflect that life and death, affecting
  sounds,
Are only varied modes of endless
  being.' Act ii. sc. 8.
'Directs the planets with a careless
  nod.' Ib.
'Far as futurity's untravell'd waste.'
  Act iv. sc. 1.
'And wake from ignorance the
  western world.' Act iv. sc. 2.
'Through hissing ages a proverbial
  coward,
The tale of women, and the scorn
  of fools.' Act iv. sc. 3.
'No records but the records of the
  sky.' Ib.
'... thou art sunk beneath reproach.'
  Act v. sc. 2.
'Oh hide me from myself.'
  Act v. sc. 3.

[590] Johnson wrote of Milton:--'I cannot but conceive him calm and confident, little disappointed,
not at all dejected, relying on his own merit with steady consciousness, and waiting without
impatience the vicissitudes of opinion, and the impartiality of a future generation.' Johnson's
Works, vii. 108.

[591]

'Genus irritabile vatum.' 'The fretful tribe of rival poets.'

Francis, Horace, Ep. ii. 2. 102.

[592] This deference he enforces in many passages in his writings; as for instance:--'Dryden
might have observed, that what is good only because it pleases, cannot be pronounced good till
it has been found to please.' Johnson's Works, vii. 252. 'The authority of Addison is great;
yet the voice of the people, when to please the people is the purpose, deserves regard.' Ib.
376. 'About things on which the public thinks long, it commonly attains to think right.' Ib.
456. 'These apologies are always useless: "de gustibus non est disputandum;" men may be convinced,
but they cannot be pleased against their will.' Ib. viii. 26. 'Of things that terminate in
human life, the world is the proper judge; to despise its sentence, if it were possible, is
not just; and if it were just, is not possible.' Ib. viii. 316. Lord Chesterfield in writing
to his son about his first appearance in the world said, 'You will be tried and judged there,
not as a boy, but as a man; and from that moment there is no appeal for character.' Lord Chesterfield's
Letters, iii. 324. Addison in the Guardian, No. 98, had said that 'men of the best sense are
always diffident of their private judgment, till it receives a sanction from the public. Provoco
ad populum, I appeal to the people, was the usual saying of a very excellent dramatic poet,
when he had any disputes with particular persons about the justness and regularity of his productions.'
See post, March 23, 1783.

[593] 'Were I,' he said, 'to wear a laced or embroidered waistcoat, it should be very rich.
I had once a very rich laced waistcoat, which I wore the first night of my tragedy.' Boswell's
Hebrides, Oct. 27, 1773.

[594] 'Topham Beauclerc used to give a pleasant description of this greenroom finery, as related
by the author himself: 'But,' said Johnson, with great gravity, 'I soon laid aside my gold-laced
hat, lest it should make me proud.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 52. In The Idler (No. 62) we have
an account of a man who had longed to 'issue forth in all the splendour of embroidery.' When
his fine clothes were brought, 'I felt myself obstructed,' he wrote, 'in the common intercourse
of civility by an uneasy consciousness of my new appearance; as I thought myself more observed,
I was more anxious about my mien and behaviour; and the mien which if formed by care is commonly
ridiculous.'

[595] See ante, p. 167.

[596] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[597] The Tatler came to an end on Jan 2, 1710-1; the first series of The Spectator on Dec
6, 1712; and the second series of The Spectator on December 20, 1714.

[598] 'Two new designs have appeared about the middle of this month [March, 1750], one entitled,
The Tatler Revived; or The Christian Philosopher and Politician, half a sheet, price 2d. (stamped);
the other, The Rambler, three half sheets (un-stamped); price 2d.' Gent. Mag. xx. 126.

[599] Pope's Essay on Man, ii. 10.

[600] See post, under Oct. 12, 1779.

[601] I have heard Dr. Warton mention, that he was at Mr. Robert Dodsley's with the late Mr.
Moore, and several of his friends, considering what should be the name of the periodical paper
which Moore had undertaken. Garrick proposed The Sallad, which, by a curious coincidence, was
afterwards applied to himself by Goldsmith:

'Our Garrick's a sallad, for in him we see Oil, vinegar, sugar, and saltness agree!'

[Retaliation, line II.]

At last, the company having separated, without any thing of which they approved having been
offered, Dodsley himself thought of The World. BOSWELL.

[602] In the original MS. 'in this my undertaking,' and below, 'the salvation both of myself
and others.'

[603] Prayers and Meditations, p. 9. BOSWELL.

[604] In the original folio edition of the Rambler the concluding paper is dated Saturday,
March 17. But Saturday was in fact March 14. This circumstance is worth notice, for Mrs. Johnson
died on the 17th. MALONE.

[605] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3d edit. p. 28. [Aug. 16, 1773]. BOSWELL.

[606] 'Gray had a notion not very peculiar, that he could not write but at certain times, or
at happy moments; a fantastic foppery, to which my kindness for a man of learning and virtue
wishes him to have been superior.' Johnson's Works, viii. 482. See post, under April 15, 1758.

[607] Her correspondence with Richardson and Mrs. Carter was published in 1807.

[608] The correspondence between her and Mrs. Carter was published in 1808.

[609] Dr. Birch says:--'The proprietor of the Rambler, Cave, told me that copy was seldom sent
to the press till late in the night before the day of publication,' Croker's Boswell, p. 121,
note. See post, April 12, 1776, and beginning of 1781.

Johnson carefully revised the Ramblers for the collected edition. The editor of the Oxford
edition of Johnson's Works states (ii. x), that 'the alterations exceeded six thousand.' The
following passage from the last number affords a good instance of this revision.

First edition. Mag. xxii. 117.

Revised edition. 462.

[610] 'Such relicks [Milton's early manuscripts] shew how excellence is acquired; what we hope
ever to do with ease, we must learn first to do with diligence.' Johnson's Works, vii. 119.

[611] Of the first 52 Ramblers 49 were wholly by Johnson; of the last 156, 154. He seems to
say that in the first 49, 17 were written from notes, and in the last 154 only 13.

[612] No. 46.

[613] Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 268 [p. 265]. BOSWELL.

[614] 'The sly shadow steals away upon the dial, and the quickest eye can distinguish no more
than that it is gone.' Glanville, quoted in Johnson's Dictionary.

[615] This most beautiful image of the enchanting delusion of youthful prospect has not been
used in any of Johnson's essays. BOSWELL.

[616] From Horace (Ars Poet. 1.

[617] Lib. xii. 96 [95]. 'In Tuccam aemulum omnium suorum studiorum.' MALONE.

[618] 'There never appear,' says Swift, 'more than five or six men of genius in an age; but
if they were united, the world could not stand before them.' Johnson's Works, iv. 18.

[619] In the first edition this is printed [Greek: o philoi on philos]; in the second, [Greek:
o philoi on philos]; in the 'Corrections' to the second, we find 'for [Greek: o] read [Greek:
oi];' in the third it is printed as above. In three editions we have therefore five readings
of the first word. See post, April 15, 1778, where Johnson says:

'An old Greek said, "He that has friends has no friend,"' and April 24, 1779, where he says:
'Garrick had friends but no friend.'

[620]

'gravesque
  Principum amicitias.'
'And fatal friendships of the guilty
  great.'

FRANCIS, Horace, Odes, ii. 1. 4.

[621] 3 Post, under Jan. 1, 1753.

[622] Sir John Hawkins has selected from this little collection of materials, what he calls
the 'Rudiments of two of the papers of the Rambler.' But he has not been able to read the manuscript
distinctly. Thus he writes, p. 266, 'Sailor's fate any mansion;' whereas the original is 'Sailor's
life my aversion.' He has also transcribed the unappropriated hints on Writers for bread, in
which he decyphers these notable passages, one in Latin, fatui non famae, instead of fami non
famae; Johnson having in his mind what Thuanus says of the learned German antiquary and linguist,
Xylander, who, he tells us, lived in such poverty, that he was supposed fami non famae scribere;
and another in French, Degente de fate [fatu] et affame a'argent, instead of Degoute de fame,
(an old word for renommee) et affame d'argent. The manuscript being written in an exceedingly
small hand, is indeed very hard to read; but it would have been better to have left blanks
than to write nonsense. BOSWELL.

[623] When we know that of the 208 Ramblers all but five were written by Johnson, it is amusing
to read a passage in one of Miss Talbot's letters to Mrs. Carter, dated Oct. 20, 1750:--'Mr.
Johnson would, I fear, be mortified to hear that people know a paper of his own by the sure
mark of somewhat a little excessive, a little exaggerated in the expression.' Carter Corres.
i. 357.

[624] The Ramblers certainly were little noticed at first. Smart, the poet, first mentioned
them to me as excellent papers, before I had heard any one else speak of them. When I went
into Norfolk, in the autumn of 1751, I found but one person, (the Rev. Mr. Squires, a man of
learning, and a general purchaser of new books,) who knew anything of them. Before I left Norfolk
in the year 1760, the Ramblers were in high favour among persons of learning and good taste.
Others there were, devoid of both, who said that the hard words in the Rambler were used by
the authour to render his Dictionary indispensably necessary. BURNEY. We have notices of the
Rambler in the Carter Corres:--'May 28, 1750. The author ought to be cautioned not to use over
many hard words. In yesterday's paper (a very pretty one indeed) we had equiponderant, and
another so hard I cannot remember it [adscititious], both in one sentence.' 'Dec. 17, 1750:--Mr.
Cave complains of him for not admitting correspondents; this does mischief. In the main I think
he is to be applauded for it. But why then does he not write now and then on the living manners
of the times?' In writing on April 22, 1752, just after the Rambler had come to an end, Miss
Talbot says:--'Indeed 'tis a sad thing that such a paper should have met with discouragement
from wise and learned and good people too. Many are the disputes it has cost me, and not once
did I come off triumphant.' Mrs. Carter replied:--'Many a battle have I too fought for him
in the country, out with little success.' Murphy says:--'of this excellent production the number
sold on each day did not amount to five hundred; of course the bookseller, who paid the author
four guineas a week, did not carry on a successful trade.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 59.

[625] Richardson wrote to Cave on Aug. 9, 1750, after forty-one numbers had appeared:--'I hope
the world tastes them; for its own sake I hope the world tastes them. The author I can only
guess at. There is but one man, I think, that could write them.' Rich. Corres, i. 165. Cave
replied:--'Mr. Johnson is the Great Rambler, being, as you observe, the only man who can furnish
two such papers in a week, besides his other great business.' He mentioned the recommendation
it received from high quarters, and continued:--'Notwithstanding, whether the price of two-pence,
or the unfavourable season of their first publication hinders the demand, no boast can be made
of it.' Johnson had not wished his name to be known. Cave says that 'Mr. Carrick and others,
who knew the author's powers and style from the first, unadvisedly asserting their suspicions,
overturned the scheme of secrecy.' Ib. pp. 168-170.

[626] Horace Walpole, while justifying George II. against 'bookish men who have censured his
neglect of literature,' says:--'In truth, I believe King George would have preferred a guinea
to a composition as perfect as Alexander's Feast.' Reign of George II, iii. 304.

[627] 'Dr. Johnson said to an acquaintance of mine, "My other works are wine and water; but
my Rambler is pure wine."' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 10.

[628] See post, April 5, 1772; April 19, 1773; and April 9, 1778.

[629] It was executed in the printing-office of Sands, Murray, and Cochran, with uncommon elegance,
upon writing-paper, of a duodecimo size, and with the greatest correctness; and Mr. Elphinston
enriched it with translations of the mottos. When completed, it made eight handsome volumes.
It is, unquestionably, the most accurate and beautiful edition of this work; and there being
but a small impression, it is now become scarce, and sells at a very high price. BOSWELL.

[630] Mr. Thomas Ruddiman, the learned grammarian of Scotland, well known for his various excellent
works, and for his accurate editions of several authours. He was also a man of a most worthy
private character. His zeal for the Royal House of Stuart did not render him less estimable
in Dr. Johnson's eye. BOSWELL.

[631] In the Gent. Mag. for Sept. 1750, and for Oct. 1752, translations of many of the mottoes
were given; but in each number there are several of Elphinston's. Johnson seems to speak of
only one.

[632] Writing to Miss Porter on July 12, 1749, he said:--'I was afraid your letter had brought
me ill news of my mother, whose death is one of the few calamities on which I think with terror.'
Crokers Boswell, p. 62.

[633] Mr. Strahan was Elphinston's brother-in-law. Post, April 9, 1778.

[634] In the Gent. Mag. for January, 1752, in the list of books published is:--'A correct and
beautiful edition of the Rambler in 4 volumes, in 12mo. Price 12s.' The Rambler was not concluded
till the following March. The remaining two volumes were published in July. Gent. Mag. xxii. 338.

[635] According to Hawkins (Life, P. 269) each edition consisted of 1250 copies.

[636] No. 55 [59.]. BOSWELL.

[637] Miss Burney records in her Diary that one day at Streatham, while she and Mrs. Thrale
'were reading this Rambler, Dr. Johnson came in. We told him what we were about. "Ah, madam!"
cried he, "Goldsmith was not scrupulous; but he would have been a great man had he known the
real value of his own internal resources."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 83. See post, beginning
of 1768.

[638] It is possible that Mrs. Hardcastle's drive in She Stoops to Conquer was suggested by
the Rambler, No. 34. In it a young gentleman describes a lady's terror on a coach journey.
'Our whole conversation passed in dangers, and cares, and fears, and consolations, and stories
of ladies dragged in the mire, forced to spend all the night on a heath, drowned in rivers,
or burnt with lightning.... We had now a new scene of terror, every man we saw was a robber,
and we were ordered sometimes to drive hard, lest a traveller whom we saw behind should overtake
us; and sometimes to stop, lest we should come up to him who was passing before us. She alarmed
many an honest man by begging him to spare her life as he passed by the coach.'

[639] Dr. Johnson was gratified by seeing this selection, and wrote to Mr. Kearsley, bookseller
in Fleet-Street, the following note:--

'Mr. Johnson sends compliments to Mr. Kearsley, and begs the favour of seeing him as soon as
he can. Mr. Kearsley is desired to bring with him the last edition of what he has honoured
with the name of BEAUTIES. May 20, 1782.' BOSWELL. The correspondence, post, May 15, 1782,
shews that Johnson sent for this book, not because he was gratified, but because he was accused,
on the strength of one of the Beauties, of recommending suicide. On that day, being in the
country, he wrote: 'I never saw the book but by casual inspection, and considered myself as
utterly disengaged from its consequences.' He adds:--'I hope some time in the next week to
have all rectified.' The letter of May 20 shews that on his return to town he lost little time,
if any, in sending for Kearsley.

[640] See post, April 12, 1781.

[641] Ecclesiastes vii. 4.

[642] In the original 'separated sooner than subdued.' Johnson acted up to what he said. When
he was close on his end, 'all who saw him beheld and acknowledged the invictum animum Catonis
... Talking of his illness he said:--"I will be conquered; I will not capitulate."' See post,
Oct. 1784.

[643] In the Spectator, No. 568, Addison tells of a village in which 'there arose a current
report that somebody had written a book against the 'squire and the whole parish.' The book
was The Whole Duty of Man.

[644] 'The character of Prospero was, beyond all question, occasioned by Garrick's ostentatious
display of furniture and Dresden china.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 144. If Garrick was aimed at,
it is surprising that the severity of the satire did not bring to an end, not only all friendship,
but even any acquaintance between the two men. The writer describes how he and Prospero had
set out in the world together, and how for a long time they had assisted each other, till his
friend had been lately raised to wealth by a lucky project. 'I felt at his sudden shoot of
success an honest and disinterested joy.' Prospero reproached him with his neglect to visit
him at his new house. When however he went to see him, he found that his friend's impatience
'arose not from any desire to communicate his happiness, but to enjoy his superiority.' He
was kept waiting at the door, and when at length he was shewn up stairs, he found the staircase
carefully secured by mats from the pollution of his feet. Prospero led him into a backroom,
where he told him he always breakfasted when he had not great company. After the visitor had
endured one act of insolence after another, he says:--'I left him without any intention of
seeing him again, unless some misfortune should restore his understanding.' Rambler, No. 200.
See post, May 15, 1776, where Johnson, speaking of the charge of meanness brought against Garrick,
said, 'he might have been much better attacked for living with more splendour than is suitable
to a player.'

[645] In C. C. Greville's Journal (ii. 316) we have an instance how stories about Johnson grew.
He writes:--'Lord Holland told some stories of Johnson and Garrick which he had heard from
Kemble.... When Garrick was in the zenith of his popularity, and grown rich, and lived with
the great, and while Johnson was yet obscure, the Doctor used to drink tea with him, and he
would say, "Davy, I do not envy you your money nor your fine acquaintance, but I envy you your
power of drinking such tea as this."

[646] No 98.

[647] Yet his style did not escape the harmless shafts of pleasant humour; for the ingenious
Bonnell Thornton published a mock Rambler in the Drury-lane Journal. BOSWELL. Murphy (Life,
p. 157), criticising the above quotation from Johnson, says:--'He forgot the observation of
Dryden: "If too many foreign words are poured in upon us, it looks as if they were designed,
not to assist the natives, but to conquer them."'

[648] Idler, No. 70. BOSWELL. In the same number Johnson writes:--'Few faults of style, whether
real or imaginary, excite the malignity of a more numerous class of readers than the use of
hard words.... But words are hard only to those who do not understand them; and the critic
ought always to inquire, whether he is incommoded by the fault of the writer or by his own.
Every author does not write for every reader.' See post, Sept. 19, 1777, where Johnson says:--'If
Robertson's style be faulty he owes it to me; that is, having too many words, and those too
big ones.'

[649] The following passages in Temple's writings shew that a likeness may be discovered between
his style and Johnson's:--'There may be firmness and constancy of courage from tradition as
well as of belief: nor, methinks, should any man know how to be a coward, that is brought up
with the opinion, that all of his nation or city have ever been valiant.' Temple's Works, i.
167. 'This is a disease too refined for this country and people, who are well, when they are
not ill, and pleased, when they are not troubled; are content, because they think little of
it; and seek their happiness in the common eases and commodities of life, or the increase of
riches; not amusing themselves with the more speculative contrivances of passion, or refinements
of pleasure.' Ib. p. 170. 'They send abroad the best of their own butter into all parts, and
buy the cheapest out of Ireland, or the north of England, for their own use. In short they
furnish infinite luxury which they never practise, and traffic in pleasures which they never
taste.' Ib. p. 195. See post, April 9, 1778, where Johnson says:--'Temple was the first writer
who gave cadence to English prose.'

[650] Dean Stanley calls Ephraim Chambers 'the Father of Cyclopedias.' Memorials of Westminster
Abbey, p. 299, note. The epitaph which Chambers wrote for himself the Dean gives as:--'Multis
pervulgatus, paucis notus, qui vitam inter lucem et umbram, nec eruditus nec idioticis literis
deditus, transegit.' In the Gent. Mag. for 1740, p. 262, the last line is given, no doubt correctly,
as:--'Nec eruditus nec idiota, literis deditus.' The second edition of Chambers's Cyclopaedia
was published in 1738. There is no copy of his Proposal in the British Museum or Bodleian.
The resemblance between his style and Johnson's is not great. The following passage is the
most Johnsonian that I could find:--'None of my predecessors can blame me for the use I have
made of them; since it is their own avowed practice. It is a kind of privilege attached to
the office of lexicographer; if not by any formal grant, yet by connivance at least. I have
already assumed the bee for my device, and who ever brought an action of trover or trespass
against that avowed free-booter? 'Tis vain to pretend anything of property in things of this
nature. To offer our thoughts to the public, and yet pretend a right reserved therein to oneself,
if it be not absurd, yet it is sordid. The words we speak, nay the breath we emit, is not more
vague and common than our thoughts, when divulged in print.' Chambers's Preface, p. xxiii.

[651] 'There were giants in the earth in those days.' Gen. vi. 4.

[652] A GREAT PERSONAGE first appears in the second edition. In the first edition we merely
find 'by one whose authority,' &c. Boswell in his Hebrides, Aug. 28, 1773, speaks of George
III. as 'a Great Personage.' In his Letter to the People of Scotland (p. 90) he thus introduces
an anecdote about the King--and Paoli:--'I have one other circumstance to communicate; but
it is of the highest value. I communicate it with a mixture of awe and fondness.--That Great
Personage, who is allowed by all to have the best memory of any man born a Briton, &c. In the
Probationary Odes for the Laureateship, published a few months after Boswell's Letter, a 'Great
Personage' is ludicrously introduced; pp. xxx. 63.

[653] The first nine lines form the motto.

[654] Horat. Epist. Lib. ii. Epist. ii. {1, 110} BOSWELL.

But how severely with themselves proceed The men, who write such verse as we can read! Their
own strict judges, not a word they spare That wants or force, or light, or weight, or care,
Howe'er unwillingly it quits its place, Nay, though at court, perhaps, it may find grace: Such
they'll degrade; and some-times, in its stead, In downright charity revive the dead; Mark where
a bold expressive phrase appears, Bright through the rubbish of some hundred years; Command
old words that long have slept to wake, Words that wise Bacon or brave Rawleigh spake; Or bid
the new be English, ages hence, (For use will father what's begot by sense;) Pour the full
tide of eloquence along, Serenely pure, and yet divinely strong, Rich with the treasures of
each foreign tongue.'

Pope, Imitations of Horace, ii. 2. 157

[655] 'Horat. De Arte Poetica. [1. 48.] BOSWELL.

[656] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 29, 1773, where Boswell says that up that date he had twice
heard Johnson coin words, peregrinity and depeditation.

[657] 'The words which our authors have introduced by their knowledge of foreign languages,
or ignorance of their own, by vanity or wantonness, by compliance with fashion or lust of innovation,
I have registered as they occurred, though commonly only to censure them, and warn others against
the folly of naturalizing useless foreigners to the injury of the natives.... Our language
for almost a century has, by the concurrence of many causes, been gradually departing from
its original Teutonick character, and deviating towards a Gallick structure and phraseology,
from which it ought to be our endeavour to recall it, by making our ancient volumes the groundwork
of style.... From the authors which rose in the time of Elizabeth a speech might be formed
adequate to all the purposes of use and elegance.' Johnson's Works, v. pp. 31, 39. See post.
May 12, 1778.

[658] If Johnson sometimes indulged his Brownism (see post, beginning of 1756), yet he saw
much to censure in Browne's style. 'His style is, indeed, a tissue of many languages; a mixture
of heterogeneous words, brought together from distant regions, with terms originally appropriated
to one art, and drawn by violence into the service of another. He must however be confessed
to have augmented our philosophical diction.... His innovations are sometimes pleasing, and
his temerities happy.' Johnson's Works, vi. 500. 'It is remarkable that the pomp of diction,
which has been objected to Johnson, was first assumed in the Rambler. His Dictionary was going
on at the same time, and in the course of that work, as he grew familiar with technical and
scholastic words, he thought that the bulk of his readers were equally learned; or at least
would admire the splendour and dignity of the style.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 156.

'The observation of his having imitated Sir Thomas Brown has been made by many people; and
lately it has been insisted on, and illustrated by a variety of quotations from Brown, in one
of the popular Essays written by the Reverend Mr. Knox [the Essay is No. xxii. of Winter Evenings,
Knox's Works, ii 397], master of Tumbridge school, whom I have set down in my list [post, under
Dec. 6, 1784] of those who have sometimes not unsuccessfully imitated Dr. Johnson's style. BOSWELL.

[659] The following observation in Mr. Boswell's Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides [p. 9] may
sufficiently account for that Gentleman's being 'now scarcely esteem'd a Scot' by many of his
countrymen:--If he [Dr. Johnson] was particularly prejudiced against the Scots, it was because
they were more in his way; because he thought their success in England rather exceeded the
due proportion of their real merit; and because he could not but see in them that nationality
which, I believe, no liberal-minded Scotchman will deny.' Mr. Boswell, indeed, is so free from
national prejudices, that he might with equal propriety have been described as--

'Scarce by South Britons now
   esteem'd a Scot.'
       COURTENAY. BOSWELL.

[660] Malone says that 'Baretti used sometimes to walk with Johnson through the streets at
night, and occasionally entered into conversation with the unfortunate women who frequent them,
for the sake of hearing their stories. It was from a history of one of these, which a girl
told under a tree in the King's Bench Walk in the Temple to Baretti and Johnson, that he formed
the story of Misella in the Rambler [Nos. 170 and 171].' Prior's Malone, p. 161. 'Of one [of
these women] who was very handsome he asked, for what she thought God had given her so much
beauty. She answered:--"To please gentlemen."' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 321. See also post, under
Dec. 2, 1784.

[661] Hawkins (Life, p. 270) had said that 'the characteristics of Addison's style are feebleness
and inanity.' He was thus happily ridiculed by Person:--'Soon after the publication of Sir
John's book, a parcel of Eton boys, not having the fear of God before their eyes, etc., instead
of playing truant, robbing orchards, annoying poultry, or performing any other part of their
school exercise, fell foul in print (see the Microcosm, No. 36) upon his Worship's censure
of Addison's middling style.... But what can you expect, as Lord Kames justly observes, from
a school where boys are taught to rob on the highway?' Person, Tracts, p. 339.

[662] Works, vii. 473.

[663] When Johnson shewed me a proof-sheet of the character of Addison, in which he so highly
extols his style, I could not help observing, that it had not been his own model, as no two
styles could differ more from each other.--'Sir, Addison had his style, and I have mine.'--When
I ventured to ask him, whether the difference did not consist in this, that Addison's style
was full of idioms, colloquial phrases, and proverbs; and his own more strictly grammatical,
and free from such phraseology and modes of speech as can never be literally translated or
understood by foreigners; he allowed the discrimination to be just.--Let any one who doubts
it, try to translate one of Addison's Spectators into Latin, French, or Italian; and though
so easy, familiar, and elegant, to an Englishman, as to give the intellect no trouble; yet
he would find the transfusion into another language extremely difficult, if not impossible.
But a Rambler, Adventurer, or Idler, of Johnson, would fall into any classical or European
language, as easily as if it had been originally conceived in it. BURNEY. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec.
p. 125) recounts how Johnson recommended Addison's works as a model for imitation to Mr. Woodhouse,
a poetical shoemaker. '"Give nights and days, Sir, (said he) to the study of Addison, if you
mean either to be a good writer, or, what is more worth, an honest man." When I saw something
like the same expression in his criticism on that author, I put him in mind of his past injunctions
to the young poet, to which he replied, "That he wished the shoemaker might have remembered
them as well."' Yet he says in his Life of Pope ( Works, viii. 284), 'He that has once studiously
formed a style rarely writes afterwards with complete ease.'

[664] I shall probably, in another work, maintain the merit of Addison's poetry, which has
been very unjustly depreciated. BOSWELL. He proposed also to publish an edition of Johnson's
poems (ante, p. 16), an account of his own travels (post, April 17, 1778), a collection, with
notes, of old tenures and charters of Scotland (post, Oct. 27, 1779), and a History of James
IV. of Scotland, 'the patron,' as he said, 'of my family' (Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23, 1773).

[665] Lewis thus happily translates the lines in Martial,--

'Diligat ilia senem quondam: sed et ipsa marito, Tunc quoque cum fuerit, non videatur, anus.
'Wrinkled with age, may mutual love and truth To their dim eyes recall the bloom of youth.'

Rambler, No. 167. No. 117.

[666] [Greek: Augon ek makaron antaxios eiae amoibae.]

'Celestial powers! that piety regard, From you my labours wait their last reward.'

A modification of the Greek line is engraved on the scroll in Johnson's monument in St. Paul's
(post, Dec. 1784).

[668] I have little doubt that this attack on the concluding verse is an indirect blow at Hawkins,
who had quoted the whole passage, and had clearly thought it the more 'awful' on account of
the couplet. See Hawkins's Johnson, p. 291.

[669] In the original Raleigh's.

[670] The italics are Boswell's.

[671] Mrs. Williams is probably the person meant. BOSWELL.

[672] 'In 1750, April 5, Comus was played for her benefit. She had so little acquaintance with
diversion or gaiety, that she did not know what was intended when a benefit was theatre was
offered her. The profits of the night were only L130, though Dr. Newton brought a large contribution;
and L20 were given by Tonson, a man who is to be praised as often as he is named.... This was
the greatest benefaction that Paradise Lost ever procured the author's descendants; and to
this he who has now attempted to relate his life had the honour of contributing a Prologue.'
Johnson's Works, vii. 118. In the Gent. Mag. (xx. 152) we read that, as on 'April 4, the night
first appointed, many in convenient circumstances happened to disappoint the hopes of success,
the managers generously quitted the profits of another night, in which the theatre was expected
to be fuller. Mr. Samuel Johnson's prologue was afterwards printed for Mrs. Foster's benefit.'

[673] Johnson is thinking of Pope's lines--

'But still the great have kindness in reserve, He helped to bury whom he helped to starve.'

Prologue to the Satires, 1. 247. In the Life of Milton he writes:--'In our time a monument
has been erected in Westminster Abbey To the author of Paradise Lost by Mr. Benson, who has
in the inscription bestowed more words upon himself than upon Milton.' Johnson's Works, vii.
112. Pope has a hit at Benson in the Dunciad, iii. 325:--

'On poets' tombs see Benson's titles writ!'

Moore, describing Sheridan's funeral, says:--'It was well remarked by a French Journal, in
contrasting the penury of Sheridan's latter years with the splendour of his funeral, that "France
is the place for a man of letters to live in, and England the place for him to die in."' Moore
himself wrote:--

'How proud they can press to the funeral array Of him whom they shunned in his sickness and
sorrow-- How bailiffs may seize his last blanket to-day, Whose pall shall be held up by Nobles
to-morrow.'

Moore's Sheridan, ii. 460-2.

[674] Johnson's Works, i. 115.

[675] Among the advertisements in the Gent. Mag. for February of this year is the following:--'An
elegy wrote in a country churchyard, 6d.'

[676] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773.

[677] 'Lest there should be any person, at any future period, absurd enough to suspect that
Johnson was a partaker in Lauder's fraud, or had any knowledge of it, when he assisted him
with his masterly pen, it is proper here to quote the words of Dr. Douglas, now Bishop of Salisbury,
at the time when he detected the imposition. 'It is to be hoped, nay it is expected, that the
elegant and nervous writer, whose judicious sentiments and inimitable style point out the authour
of Lauder's Preface and Postscript, will no longer allow one to plume himself with his feathers,
who appeareth so little to deserve [his] assistance: an assistance which I am persuaded would
never have been communicated, had there been the least suspicion of those facts which I have
been the instrument of conveying to the world in these sheets.' Milton no Plagiary, 2nd edit.
p. 78. And his Lordship has been pleased now to authorise me to say, in the strongest manner,
that there is no ground whatever for any unfavourable reflection against Dr. Johnson, who expressed
the strongest indignation against Lauder. BOSWELL. To this letter Lauder had the impudence
to add a shameless postscript and some 'testimonies' concerning himself. Though on the face
of it it is evident that this postscript is not by Johnson, yet it is included in his works
(v. 283). The letter was dated Dec. 20, 1750. In the Gent. Mag. for the next month (xxi. 47)
there is the following paragraph:--'Mr. Lauder confesses here and exhibits all his forgeries;
for which he assigns one motive in the book, and after asking pardon assigns another in the
postscript; he also takes an opportunity to publish several letters and testimonials to his
former character.' Goldsmith in Retaliation has a hit at Lauder:--

'Here Douglas retires from his toils to relax, The scourge of impostors, the terror of quacks.
New Lauders and Bowers the Tweed shall cross over, No countryman living their tricks to discover.'

Dr. Douglas was afterwards Bishop of Salisbury (ante, p. 127). See post, June 25, 1763, for
the part he took in exposing the Cock Lane Ghost imposture.

[678] Scott writing to Southey in 1810 said:--'A witty rogue the other day, who sent me a letter
signed Detector, proved me guilty of stealing a passage from one of Vida's Latin poems, which
I had never seen or heard of.' The passage alleged to be stolen ends with,--

'When pain and anguish wring the brow, A ministering angel thou!'

which in Vida ad Eranen. El. ii. v. 21, ran,--

'Cum dolor atque supercilio gravis imminet angor, Fungeris angelico sola ministerio.'

'It is almost needless to add,' says Mr. Lockhart, 'there are no such lines.' Life of Scott,
iii. 294.

[679] The greater part of this Preface was given in the Gent. Mag. for August 1747 (xvii. 404).

[680] 'Persuasive' is scarcely a fit description for this noble outburst of indignation on
the part of one who knew all the miseries of poverty. After quoting Dr. Newton's account of
the distress to which Milton's grand-daughter had been reduced, he says:--'That this relation
is true cannot be questioned: but surely the honour of letters, the dignity of sacred poetry,
the spirit of the English nation, and the glory of human nature require--that it should be
true no longer.... In an age, which amidst all its vices and all its follies has not become
infamous for want of charity, it may be surely allowed to hope, that the living remains of
Milton will be no longer suffered to languish in distress.' Johnson's Works, v. 270.

[681] Hawkins's Johnson, p. 275.

[682] In the original retrospection. Johnson's Works, v. 268. 'Mr. Nichols shewed Johnson in
1780 a book called Remarks on Johnson's Life of Milton, in which the affair of Lauder was renewed
with virulence. He read the libellous passage with attention, and instantly wrote on the margin:--"In
the business of Lauder I was deceived; partly by thinking the man too frantic to be fraudulent.'"
Murphy's Johnson, p. 66. In his Biography of Johnson (p. 388) he says that Mrs. Williams's
'chief recommendations were her blindness and her poverty.' No doubt in Johnson's letters to
Mrs. Thrale are found amusing accounts of the discord of the inmates of his house. But it is
abundantly clear that in Mrs. Williams's company he had for years found pleasure. A few months
after her death he wrote to Mrs. Thrale: 'You have more than once wondered at my complaint
of solitude, when you hear that I am crowded with visits. Inopem me copia fecit. Visitors are
no proper companions in the chamber of sickness.... The amusements and consolations of languor
and depression are conferred by familiar and domestic companions.... Such society I had with
Levett and Williams' (Piozzi Letters, ii. 341). To Mrs. Montagu he wrote:--'Thirty years and
more she had been my companion, and her death has left me very desolate' (Croker's Boswell,
p. 739). Boswell says that 'her departure left a blank in his house' (post, Aug. 1783). 'By
her death,' writes Murphy, 'he was left in a state of destitution, with nobody but his black
servant to soothe his anxious moments' (Murphy's Johnson, p. 122). Hawkins (Life, p. 558) says
that 'she had not only cheered him in his solitude, and helped him to pass with comfort those
hours which otherwise would have been irksome to him, but had relieved him from domestic cares,
regulated and watched over the expenses of his house, etc.' 'She had,' as Boswell says (post,
Aug. 1783), 'valuable qualities.' 'Had she had,' wrote Johnson, 'good humour and prompt elocution,
her universal curiosity and comprehensive knowledge would have made her the delight of all
that knew her' (Piozzi Letters, ii. 311). To Langton he wrote:--'I have lost a companion to
whom I have had recourse for domestic amusement for thirty years, and whose variety of knowledge
never was exhausted' (post, Sept. 29, 1783). 'Her acquisitions,' he wrote to Dr. Burney, 'were
many and her curiosity universal; so that she partook of every conversation' (post, Sept. 1783).
Murphy (Life p. 72) says:--'She possessed uncommon talents, and, though blind, had an alacrity
of mind that made her conversation agreeable, and even desirable.' According to Hawkins (Life,
322-4) 'she had acquired a knowledge of French and Italian, and had made great improvements
in literature. She was a woman of an enlightened understanding. Johnson in many exigencies
found her an able counsellor, and seldom shewed his wisdom more than when he hearkened to her
advice.' Perhaps Johnson had her in his thoughts when, writing of Pope's last years and Martha
Blount, he said:--'Their acquaintance began early; the life of each was pictured on the other's
mind; their conversation therefore was endearing, for when they met there was an immediate
coalition of congenial notions.' (Johnson's Works, viii. 304.) Miss Mulso (Mrs. Chapone) writing
to Mrs. Carter in 1753, says:--'I was charmed with Mr. Johnson's behaviour to Mrs. Williams,
which was like that of a fond father to his daughter. She shewed very good sense, with a great
deal of modesty and humility; and so much patience and cheerfulness under her misfortune that
it doubled my concern for her' (Mrs. Chapone's Life, p. 73). Miss Talbot wrote to Mrs. Carter
in 1756:--'My mother the other day fell in love with your friend, Mrs. Williams, whom we met
at Mr. Richardson's [where Miss Mulso also had met her], and is particularly charmed with the
sweetness of her voice' (Talbot and Carter Corresp. ii. 221). Miss Talbot was a niece of Lord
Chancellor Talbot. Hannah More wrote in 1774:--'Mrs. Williams is engaging in her manners; her
conversation lively and entertaining' (More's Memoirs, i.49). Boswell, however, more than once
complains that she was 'peevish' (post, Oct. 26, 1769 and April 7, 1776). At a time when she
was very ill, and had gone into the country to try if she could improve her health, Johnson
wrote:--'Age, and sickness, and pride have made her so peevish, that I was forced to bribe
the maid to stay with her by a secret stipulation of half-a-crown a week over her wages' (post,
July 22, 1777). Malone, in a note on August 2, 1763, says that he thinks she had of her own
'about L35 or L40 a year.' This was in her latter days; Johnson had prevailed on Garrick to
give her a benefit and Mrs. Montagu to give her a pension. She used, he adds, to help in the
house-work.

[685] March 14. See ante, p. 203, note 1. He had grown weary of his work. In the last Rambler
but one he wrote: 'When once our labour has begun, the comfort that enables us to endure it
is the prospect of its end.... He that is himself weary will soon weary the public. The author
of Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Dr. Johnson, 1785, says, p. 113, that on the death of
his wife, 'to walk the streets of London was for many a lonesome night Johnson's constant substitute
for sleep.'

[688] 'I have often been inclined to think that, if this fondness of Johnson for his wife was
not dissembled, it was a lesson that he had learned by rote, and that, when he practised it,
he knew not where to stop till he became ridiculous.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 313

[689] The son of William Strahan, M.P., 'Johnson's old and constant friend, Printer to His
Majesty' (post, under April 20, 1781). He attended Johnson on his death-bed, and published
the volume called Prayers and Meditations.

[690] Southey in his Life of Wesley, i. 359, writes:--'The universal attention which has been
paid to dreams in all ages proves that the superstition is natural; and I have heard too many
well-attested facts (facts to which belief could not be refused upon any known laws of evidence)
not to believe that impressions are sometimes made in this manner, and forewarnings communicated,
which cannot be explained by material philosophy or mere metaphysics.'

[691] Warburton in his Divine Legation, i. 284, quotes the 'famous sepulchral inscription of
the Roman widow.' 'Ita peto vos Manes sanctissimi commendatum habeatis meum conjugem et velitis
huic indulgentissimi esse horis nocturnis ut eum videam,' etc.

[692] Mrs. Boswell died in June 1789. Johnson's prayer with Boswell's comments on it was first
inserted in the Additions to the second edition.

[693] Mrs. Johnson died on March 17, O. S., or March 28, N. S. The change of style was made
in September, 1752. He might have kept either the 17th, or the 28th as the anniversary. In
like manner, though he was born on Sept. 7, after the change he kept the 18th as his birth-day.
See post, beginning of 1753, where he writes, 'Jan. 1, N. S., which I shall use for the future.'

[694] In Prayers and Meditations, p. 22, he recorded: 'The melancholy of this day hung long
upon me.' P. 53: 'April 22, 1764, Thought on Tetty, dear, poor Tetty, with my eyes full.' P.
91: 'March 28, 1770. This is the day on which, in 1752, I was deprived of poor, dear Tetty....
When I recollect the time in which we lived together, my grief for her departure is not abated;
and I have less pleasure in any good that befalls me because she does not partake it.' P. 170:
'April 20, 1778. Poor Tetty, whatever were our faults and failings, we loved each other. I
did not forget thee yesterday [Easter Sunday]. Couldest thou have lived!' P. 210: 'March 28,
1782. This is the day on which, in 1752, dear Tetty died. I have now uttered a prayer of repentance
and contrition; perhaps Tetty knows that I prayed for her. Perhaps Tetty is now praying for
me. God help me.' In a letter to Mrs. Thrale on the occasion of the death of her son (dated
March 30, 1776) he thus refers to the loss of his wife:--'I know that a whole system of hopes,
and designs, and expectations is swept away at once, and nothing left but bottomless vacuity.
What you feel I have felt, and hope that your disquiet will be shorter than mine.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 310. In a letter to Mr. Elphinston, who had just lost his wife, written on July 27, 1778,
he repeats the same thought:--'A loss such as yours lacerates the mind, and breaks the whole
system of purposes and hopes. It leaves a dismal vacuity in life, which affords nothing on
which the affections can fix, or to which endeavour may be directed. All this I have known.'
Croker's Boswell, p. 66, note. See also post, his letter to Mr. Warton of Dec. 21, 1754, and
to Dr. Lawrence of Jan. 20, 1780.

[695] In the usual monthly list of deaths in the Gent. Mag. her name is not given. Johnson
did not, I suppose, rank among 'eminent persons.'

[696] Irene, Act i. sc. 1.

[697] See post, Nov. 16, 1784, note.

[698] The Anderdon MSS. contain an importunate letter, dated July 3, 1751, from one Mitchell,
a tradesman in Chandos-street, pressing Johnson to pay L2, due by his wife ever since August,
1749, and threatening legal proceedings to enforce payment. This letter Mr. Boswell had endorsed,
'Proof of Dr. Johnson's wretched circumstances in 1751.' CROKER.

[699] In the Gent. Mag. for February, 1794, (p. 100,) was printed a letter pretending to be
that written by Johnson on the death of his wife. But it is merely a transcript of the 41st
number of The Idler. A fictitious date (March 17, 1751, O. S.) was added by some person previous
to this paper being sent to the publisher of that miscellany, to give a colour to this deception.
MALONE.

[700] Francis Barber was born in Jamaica, and was brought to England in 1750 by Colonel Bathurst,
father of Johnson's very intimate friend, Dr. Bathurst. He was sent, for some time, to the
Reverend Mr. Jackson's school, at Barton, in Yorkshire. The Colonel by his will left him his
freedom, and Dr. Bathurst was willing that he should enter into Johnson's service, in which
he continued from 1752 till Johnson's death, with the exception of two intervals; in one of
which, upon some difference with his master, he went and served an apothecary in Cheapside,
but still visited Dr. Johnson occasionally; in another, he took a fancy to go to sea. Part
of the time, indeed, he was, by the kindness of his master, at a school in Northamptonshire,
that he might have the advantage of some learning. So early and so lasting a connection was
there between Dr. Johnson and this humble friend. BOSWELL. 'I believe that Francis was scarcely
as much the object of Mr. Johnson's personal kindness as the representative of Dr. Bathurst,
for whose sake he would have loved anybody or anything.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 212.

[701] 'I asked him,' writes Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. pp. 146-150), 'if he ever disputed with his
wife. "Perpetually," said he; "my wife had a particular reverence for cleanliness, and desired
the praise of neatness in her dress and furniture, as many ladies do, till they become troublesome
to their best friends, slaves to their own besoms, and only sigh for the hour of sweeping their
husbands out of the house as dirt and useless lumber. A clean floor is so comfortable, she
would say sometimes by way of twitting; till at last I told her that I thought we had had talk
enough about the floor, we would now have a touch at the ceiling." I asked him if he ever huffed
his wife about his dinner. "So often," replied he, "that at last she called to me and said,
Nay, hold, Mr. Johnson, and do not make a farce of thanking God for a dinner which in a few
minutes you will protest not eatable."'

[702] 'When a friend is carried to his grave, we at once find excuses for every weakness, and
palliations of every fault; we recollect a thousand endearments, which before glided off our
minds without impression, a thousand favours unrepaid, a thousand duties unperformed; and wish,
vainly wish, for his return, not so much that we may receive, as that we may bestow happiness,
and recompense that kindness which before we never understood.' Rambler, No. 54.

[703] Pr. and Med. p. 19. BOSWELL.

[704] Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 316. BOSWELL.

[705] See post, Oct. 26, 1769, where the Roman Catholic doctrine of purgatory or 'a middle
state,' as Johnson calls it is discussed, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 25, 1773.

[706] In the original, 'lawful for me.' Much the same prayer Johnson made for his mother. Pr.
and Med. p. 38. I did it only once, so far as it might be lawful for me.' Ib. p. 54. On the
death of Mr. Thrale he wrote, 'May God that delighteth in mercy have had mercy on thee.' Ib.
p. 191; and later on, 'for Henry Thrale, so far as is lawful, I humbly implore thy mercy in
his present state.' Ib. p. 197.

[707] Pr. and Med., p. 20. BOSWELL.

[708] Shortly before his death (see post, July 12, 1784) Johnson had a stone placed over her
grave with the following inscription:--

Hic conduntur reliquiae ELIZABETHAE Antiqua Jarvisiorum Leicestrienses, ortae; Formosae, cultae,
ingeniosae, piae; Uxoris, primis nuptiis, Henrici Porter, Secundis Samuelis Johnson: Qui multum
amatam, diuque defletam Hoc lapide contexit. Obiit Londini Mense Mart. A.D. MDCCLIII

As Mrs. Johnson died in 1752, the date is wrong.

[709] See post, Sept. 21. 1777.

[710] He described her as a woman 'whom none, who were capable of distinguishing either moral
or intellectual excellence, could know without esteem or tenderness. She was extensively charitable
in her judgements and opinions, grateful for every kindness that she received, and willing
to impart assistance of every kind to all whom her little power enabled her to benefit. She
passed through many months of languor, weakness, and decay without a single murmur of impatience,
and often expressed her adoration of that mercy which granted her so long time for recollection
and penitence.' Johnson's Works, ix. 523.

[711] See ante, p. 187.

[712] Dr. Bathurst, though a Physician of no inconsiderable merit, had not the good fortune
to get much practice in London. He was, therefore willing to accept of employment abroad, and,
to the regret of all who knew him, fell a sacrifice to the destructive climate, in the expedition
against the Havannah. Mr. Langton recollects the following passage in a letter from Dr. Johnson
to Mr. Beauclerk: 'The Havannah is taken;--a conquest too dearly obtained; for, Bathurst died
before it. "Vix Priamus tanti totaque Troja fuit."' BOSWELL.

The quotation is from Ovid, Heroides, i. 4. Johnson (post, Dec. 21, 1762) wrote to Baretti,
'Bathurst went physician to the army, and died at the Havannah.' Mr. Harwood in his History
of Lichfield, p. 451, gives two letters from Bathurst to Johnson dated 1757. In the postscript
to one he says:--'I know you will call me a lazy dog, and in truth I deserve it; but I am afraid
I shall never mend. I have indeed long known that I can love my friends without being able
to tell them so.... Adieu my dearest friend.' He calls Johnson 'the best of friends, to whom
I stand indebted for all the little virtue and knowledge that I have.' 'Nothing,' he continues,
'I think, but absolute want can force me to continue where I am.' Jamaica he calls 'this execrable
region.' Hawkins (Life, p. 235) says that 'Bathurst, before leaving England, confessed to Johnson
that in the course of ten years' exercise of his faculty he had never opened his hand to more
than one guinea.' Johnson perhaps had Bathurst in mind when, many years later, he wrote:--'A
physician in a great city seems to be the mere plaything of fortune; his degree of reputation
is for the most part totally casual; they that employ him know not his excellence; they that
reject him know not his deficience. By any acute observer, who had looked on the transactions
of the medical world for half a century, a very curious book might be written on the Fortune
of Physicians.' Works, viii. 471.

[713] Mr. Ryland was one of the members of the old club in Ivy Lane who met to dine in 1783.
Mr. Payne was another, (post, end of 1783).

[714] Johnson revised her volumes: post, under Nov. 19, 1783.

[715] Catherine Sawbridge, sister of Mrs. [? Mr.] Alderman Sawbridge, was born in 1733; but
it was not till 1760 that she was married to Dr. Macaulay, a physician; so that Barber's account
was incorrect either in date or name. CROKER. For Alderman Sawbridge see post, May 17, 1778, note.

[716] See post, under Nov. 19, 1783. Johnson bequeathed to her a book to keep as a token of
remembrance (post, Dec. 9, 1784). I find her name in the year 1765 in the list of subscribers
to the edition of Swift's Works, in 17 vols., so that perhaps she was more 'in the learned
way' than Barber thought.

[717] Reynolds did not return to England from Italy till the October of this year, seven months
after Mrs. Johnson's death. Taylor's Reynolds, i. 87. He writes of his 'thirty years' intimacy
with Dr. Johnson.' He must have known him therefore at least as early as 1754. Ib. ii. 454.

[718] See ante, p. 185.

[719] 'Lord Southwell,' said Johnson, 'was the most qualitied man I ever saw.' Post, March
23, 1783.

[720] The account given of Levet in Gent. Mag. lv. 101, shews that he was a man out of the
common run. He would not otherwise have attracted the notice of the French surgeons. The writer
says:--'Mr. Levet, though an Englishman by birth, became early in life a waiter at a coffee-house
in Paris. The surgeons who frequented it, finding him of an inquisitive turn and attentive
to their conversation, made a purse for him, and gave him some instructions in their art. They
afterwards furnished him with the means of further knowledge, by procuring him free admission
to such lectures in pharmacy and anatomy as were read by the ablest professors of that period.'
When he lived with Johnson, 'much of the day was employed in attendance on his patients, who
were chiefly of the lowest rank of tradesmen. The remainder of his hours he dedicated to Hunter's
lectures, and to as many different opportunities of improvement as he could meet with on the
same gratuitous conditions.' 'All his medical knowledge,' said Johnson, 'and it is not inconsiderable,
was obtained through the ear. Though he buys books, he seldom looks into them, or discovers
any power by which he can be supposed to judge of an author's merit.' 'Dr. Johnson has frequently
observed that Levet was indebted to him for nothing more than house-room, his share in a penny-loaf
at breakfast, and now and then a dinner on a Sunday. His character was rendered valuable by
repeated proof of honesty, tenderness, and gratitude to his benefactor, as well as by an unwearied
diligence in his profession. His single failing was an occasional departure from sobriety.
Johnson would observe, "he was perhaps the only man who ever became intoxicated through motives
of prudence. He reflected that, if he refused the gin or brandy offered him by some of his
patients, he could have been no gainer by their cure, as they might have had nothing else to
bestow on him. This habit of taking a fee, in whatever shape it was exhibited, could not be
put off by advice. He would swallow what he did not like, nay what he knew would injure him,
rather than go home with an idea that his skill had been exerted without recompense. Though
he took all that was offered him, he demanded nothing from the poor."' The writer adds that
'Johnson never wished him to be regarded as an inferior, or treated him like a dependent.'
Mrs. Piozzi says:--'When Johnson raised contributions for some distressed author, or wit in
want, he often made us all more than amends by diverting descriptions of the lives they were
then passing in corners unseen by anybody but himself, and that odd old surgeon whom he kept
in his house to tend the outpensioners, and of whom he said most truly and sublimely, that

"In misery's darkest caverns known,"' etc. Piozzi's Anec., p. 118.

'Levet, madam, is a brutal fellow, but I have a good regard for him; for his brutality is in
his manners, not in his mind.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 115. 'Whoever called in on Johnson
at about midday found him and Levet at breakfast, Johnson, in deshabille, as just risen from
bed, and Levet filling out tea for himself and his patron alternately, no conversation passing
between them. All that visited him at these hours were welcome. A night's rest and breakfast
seldom failed to refresh and fit him for discourse, and whoever withdrew went too soon.' Hawkins's
Johnson, p. 435.

How much he valued his poor friend he showed at his death, post, Jan. 20, 1782.

[721]

'O et praesidium et dulce decus meum.' 'My joy, my guard, and sweetest good.'

CREECH. Horace, Odes, i. I. 2.

[722] It was in 1738 that Johnson was living in Castle Street. At the time of Reynolds's arrival
in London in 1752 he had been living for some years in Gough Square. Boswell, I suppose, only
means to say that Johnson's acquaintance with the Cotterells was formed when he lived in their
neighbourhood. Northcote (Life of Reynolds, i. 69) says that the Cotterells lived 'opposite
to Reynolds's,' but his account seems based on a misunderstanding of Boswell.

[723] Ante, p. 165.

[724] 'We are both of Dr. Johnson's school,' wrote Reynolds to some friend. 'For my own part,
I acknowledge the highest obligations to him. He may be said to have formed my mind, and to
have brushed from it a great deal of rubbish. Those very persons whom he has brought to think
rightly will occasionally criticise the opinions of their master when he nods. But we should
always recollect that it is he himself who taught us and enabled us to do it.' Taylor's Reynolds,
ii. 461. Burke, writing to Malone, said:--'You state very properly how much Reynolds owed to
the writings and conversation of Johnson; and nothing shews more the greatness of Sir Joshua's
parts than his taking advantage of both, and making some application of them to his profession,
when Johnson neither understood nor desired to understand anything of painting.' Ib. p. 638.
Reynolds, there can be little question, is thinking of Johnson in the following passage in
his Seventh Discourse:--'What partial and desultory reading cannot afford may be supplied by
the conversation of learned and ingenious men, which is the best of all substitutes for those
who have not the means or opportunities of deep study. There are many such men in this age:
and they will be pleased with communicating their ideas to artists, when they see them curious
and docile, if they are treated with that respect and deference which is so justly their due.
Into such society young artists, if they make it the point of their ambition, will by degrees
be admitted. There, without formal teaching, they will insensibly come to feel and reason like
those they live with, and find a rational and systematic taste imperceptibly formed in their
minds, which they will know how to reduce to a standard, by applying general truth to their
own purposes, better perhaps than those to whom they owned [?owed] the original sentiment.'
Reynolds's Works, edit. 1824, i. 149. 'Another thing remarkable to shew how little Sir Joshua
crouched to the great is, that he never gave them their proper titles. I never heard the words
"your lordship" or "your ladyship" come from his mouth; nor did he ever say "Sir" in speaking
to any one but Dr. Johnson; and when he did not hear distinctly what the latter said (which
often happened) he would then say "Sir?" that he might repeat it.' Northcote's Conversations,
p. 289. Gibbon called Johnson 'Reynolds's oracle.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 149. See also post,
under Dec. 29, 1778.

[725] The thought may have been suggested to Reynolds by Johnson's writings. In The Rambler,
No. 87, he had said:--'There are minds so impatient of inferiority, that their gratitude is
a species of revenge, and they return benefits, not because recompense is a pleasure, but because
obligation is a pain.' In No. 166, he says:--'To be obliged is to be in some respect inferior
to another.'

[726] Northcote tells the following story on the authority of Miss Reynolds. It is to be noticed,
however, that in her Recollections (Croker's Boswell, p. 832) the story is told somewhat differently.
Johnson, Reynolds and Miss Reynolds one day called on the Miss Cotterells. 'Johnson was the
last of the three that came in; when the maid, seeing this uncouth and dirty figure of a man,
and not conceiving he could be one of the company, laid hold of his coat, just as he was going
up-stairs, and pulled him back again, saying, "You fellow, what is your business here? I suppose
you intended to rob the house." This most unlucky accident threw him into such a fit of shame
and anger that he roared out like a bull, "What have I done? What have I done?"' Northcote's
Reynolds, i. 73.

[727] Johnson writing to Langton on January 9, 1759, describes him as 'towering in the confidence
of twenty-one.' The conclusion of The Rambler was in March 1752, when Langton must have been
only fourteen or just fifteen at most; Johnson's first letter to him dated May 6, 1755, shews
that at that time their acquaintance had been but short. Langton's subscription to the Thirty-nine
Articles in the Register of the University of Oxford was on July 7, 1757. Johnson's first letter
to him at Oxford is dated June 28, 1757.

[728] See post, March 20, 1782.

[729] 'My friend Maltby and I,' said Samuel Rogers, 'when we were very young men, had a strong
desire to see Dr. Johnson; and we determined to call upon him, and introduce ourselves. We
accordingly proceeded to his house in Bolt Court; and I had my hand on the knocker when our
courage failed us, and we retreated. Many years afterwards I mentioned this circumstance to
Boswell, who said, "What a pity that you did not go boldly in! He would have received you with
all kindness."' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 9. For Johnson's levee see post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's
Collectanea.

[730] 'George Langton,' writes Mr. Best in his Memorials (p. 66), 'shewed me his pedigree with
the names and arms of the families with which his own had intermarried. It was engrossed on
a piece of parchment about ten inches broad, and twelve to fifteen feet long. "It leaves off
at the reign of Queen Elizabeth," said he.'

[731] Topham Beauclerk was the only son of Lord Sidney Beauclerk, fifth son of the first Duke
of St. Alban's. He was therefore the great-grandson of Charles II. and Nell Gwynne. He was
born in Dec. 1739. In my Dr. Johnson: His Friends and his Critics I have put together such
facts as I could find about Langton and Beauclerk.

[732] Mr. Best describes Langton as 'a very tall, meagre, long-visaged man, much resembling
a stork standing on one leg near the shore in Raphael's cartoon of the Miraculous Draught of
Fishes. His manners were, in the highest degree, polished; his conversation mild, equable and
always pleasing.' Best's Memorials, p. 62. Miss Hawkins writes:--'If I were called on to name
the person with whom Johnson might have been seen to the fairest advantage, I should certainly
name Mr. Langton.' Miss Hawkins's Memoirs, i. 144. Mrs. Piozzi wrote in 1817:--'I remember
when to have Langton at a man's house stamped him at once a literary character.' Hayward's
Piozzi, ii. 203.

[733] In the summer of 1759. See post, under April 15, 1758, and 1759.

[734] Lord Charlemont said that 'Beauclerk possessed an exquisite taste, various accomplishments,
and the most perfect good breeding. He was eccentric, often querulous, entertaining a contempt
for the generality of the world, which the politeness of his manners could not always conceal;
but to those whom he liked most generous and friendly. Devoted at one time to pleasure, at
another to literature, sometimes absorbed in play, sometimes in books, he was altogether one
of the most accomplished, and when in good humour and surrounded by those who suited his fancy,
one of the most agreeable men that could possibly exist.' Lord Charlemont's Life, i. 210. Hawkins
writes (Life, p. 422) that 'over all his behaviour there beamed such a sunshine of cheerfulness
and good-humour as communicated itself to all around him.' Mrs. Piozzi said of him:--'Topham
Beauclerk (wicked and profligate as he wished to be accounted) was yet a man of very strict
veracity. Oh Lord! how I did hate that horrid Beauclerk.' Hayward's Piozzi, i. 348. Rogers
(Table-Talk, p. 40) said that 'Beauclerk was a strangely absent person.' He once went to dress
for a dinner-party in his own house. 'He forgot all about his guests; thought that it was bed-time,
and got into bed. His servant, coming to tell him that his guests were waiting for him, found
him fast asleep.'

[735] It was to the Round-house that Captain Booth was first taken in Fielding's Amelia, Book
i, chap. 2.

[736]

'Blends, in exception to all general rules, Your taste of follies with our scorn of fools.'

Pope, Moral Essays, ii. 275.

[737] In the college which The Club was to set up at St. Andrew's, Beauclerk was to have the
chair of natural philosophy. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773. Goldsmith, writing to Langton
in 1771, says: 'Mr. Beauclerk is now going directly forward to become a second Boyle; deep
in chymistry and physics.' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 283. Boswell described to Temple, in 1775,
Beauclerk's villa at Muswell Hill, with its 'observatory, laboratory for chymical experiments.'
Boswell's Letters, p. 194.

[738] 'I'll purge, and leave sack, and live cleanly as a nobleman should do.' 1 Henry IV. Act
v. sc. 4.

[739] 'Bishop. A cant word for a mixture of wine, oranges, and sugar.' Johnson's Dictionary.

[740] Mr. Langton has recollected, or Dr. Johnson repeated, the passage wrong. The lines are
in Lord Lansdowne's Drinking Song to Sleep, and run thus:--

'Short, very short be then thy reign, For I'm in haste to laugh and drink again.' BOSWELL.

Lord Lansdowne was the Granville of Pope's couplet--

'But why then publish? Granville the polite, And knowing Walsh, would tell me I could write.'

Prologue to the Satires, 1.135.

[741] Boswell in Hebrides (Aug. 18, 1773) says that Johnson, on starting from Edinburgh, left
behind in an open drawer in Boswell's house 'one volume of a pretty full and curious Diary
of his life, of which I have a few fragments.' He also states (post, under Dec 9, 1784):--'I
owned to him, that having accidentally seen them [two quarto volumes of his Life] I had read
a great deal in them.' It would seem that he had also transcribed a portion.

[742] This is inconsistent with what immediately follows, for No. 39 on Sleep was published
on March 20.

[743] Hawkesworth in the last number of The Adventurer says that he had help at first from
A.; 'but this resource soon failing, I was obliged to carry on the publication alone, except
some casual supplies, till I obtained from the gentlemen who have distinguished their papers
by T and Z, such assistance as I most wished.' In a note he says that the papers signed Z are
by the Rev. Mr. Warton. The papers signed A are written in a light style. In Southey's Cowper,
i. 47, it is said that Bonnell Thornton wrote them.

[744] Boswell had read the passage carelessly. Statius is mentioned, but the writer goes on
to quote Cowley, whose Latin lines C. B. has translated. Johnson's Works, iv. 10.

[745] Malone says that 'Johnson was fond of him, but latterly owned that Hawkesworth--who had
set out a modest, humble man--was one of the many whom success in the world had spoiled. He
was latterly, as Sir Joshua Reynolds told me, an affected insincere man, and a great coscomb
in his dress. He had no literature whatever.' Prior's Malone, p. 441. See post, April 11 and
May 7, 1773, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 3.

[746] 'Johnson's statement to Warton is definite and is borne out by internal evidence, if
internal evidence can be needful when he had once made a definite statement. The papers signed
Misargyrus, the first of which appeared on March 3, are all below his style. They were not,
I feel sure, written by him, and are improperly given in the Oxford edition of his works. I
do not find in them even any traces of his hand. The paper on Sleep, No. 39, is I am almost
sure, partly his, but I believe it is not wholly. In the frequency of quotations in the first
part of it I see another, and probably a younger author. The passage on the 'low drudgery of
digesting dictionaries' is almost certainly his. Dr. Bathurst, perhaps, wrote the Essay, and
Johnson corrected it. Whether it was Johnson's or not, it was published after the letter to
Dr. Warton was written.

[747] See post, April 25, 1778, for an instance where Johnson's silence did not imply assent.

[748] 'One evening at the Club Johnson proposed to us the celebrating the birth of Mrs. Lennox's
first literary child, as he called her book, [The Life of Harriet Stuart, a novel, published
Dec. 1750] by a whole night spent in festivity. Our supper was elegant, and Johnson had directed
that a magnificent hot apple-pie should make a part of it, and this he would have stuck with
bay-leaves, because, forsooth, Mrs. Lennox was an authoress, and had written verses; and further,
he had prepared for her a crown of laurel, with which, but not till he had invoked the Muses
by some ceremonies of his own invention, he encircled her brows. About five Johnson's face
shone with meridian splendour, though his drink had been only lemonade.' Hawkins's Johnson,
p. 286. See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's 'Collection,' and May 15, 1784.

[749] In a document in the possession of one of Cave's collateral descendants which I have
seen dated May 3, 1754, and headed, 'Present state of the late Mr. Edward Cave's effects,'
I found entered 'Magazine, L3,000. Daily Advertiser, L900.' The total value of the effects
was L8,708.

[750] Johnson records of his friend that 'one of the last acts of reason which he exerted was
fondly to press the hand that is now writing this little narrative.' Works, vi. 433.

[751] See Hawkins's Johnson, p. 189.

[752] Lord Chesterfield writing to his son in 1751 (Letters, iii. 136) said:--'People in high
life are hardened to the wants and distresses of mankind, as surgeons are to their bodily pains;
they see and hear of them all day long, and even of so many simulated ones, that they do not
know which has are real, and which are not. Other sentiments are therefore to be applied to
than those of mere justice and humanity; their favour must be captivated by the suaviter in
modo; their love of ease disturbed by unwearied importunity; or their fears wrought upon by
a decent intimation of implacable, cool resentment: this is the true fortiter in re! He was
himself to experience an instance of the true fortiter in re.

[753] If Lord Chesterfield had read the last number of The Rambler (published in March, 1752)
he could scarcely have flattered himself with these expectations. The World, by Adam Fitz-Adam,
Jan. 1753 to Dec. 1765. The editor was Edward Moore. Among the contributors were the Earls
of Chesterfield and Corke, Horace Walpole, R. O. Cambridge, and Soame Jenyns. See post, July
1, 1763.

[755] With these papers as a whole Johnson would have been highly offended. The anonymous writer
hopes that his readers will not suspect him 'of being a hired and interested puff of this work.'
'I most solemnly protest,' he goes on to say, 'that neither Mr. Johnson, nor any booksellers
have ever offered me the usual compliment of a pair of gloves or a bottle of wine.' It is a
pretty piece of irony for a wealthy nobleman solemnly to protest that he has not been bribed
by a poor author, whom seven years before he had repulsed from his door. But Chesterfield did
worse than this. By way of recommending a work of so much learning and so much labour he tells
a foolish story of an assignation that had failed 'between a fine gentleman and a fine lady.'
The letter that had passed between them had been badly spelt, and they had gone to different
houses. 'Such examples,' he wrote, 'really make one tremble; and will, I am convinced, determine
my fair fellow-subjects and their adherents to adopt and scrupulously conform to Mr. Johnson's
rules of true orthography.' Johnson, in the last year of his life, at a time of great weakness
and depression, defended the roughness of his manner. 'I have done more good as I am. Obscenity
and impiety have always been repressed in my company' (post, June 11, 1784).

[756] In the original 'Mr. Johnson.'

[757] In the original 'unnecessary foreign ornaments.'

[758] In the original, 'will now, and, I dare say.'

[759] Hawkins (Life, p. 191) says that Chesterfield, further to appease Johnson, sent to him
Sir Thomas Robinson (see post, July 19, 1763), who was 'to apologise for his lordship's treatment
of him, and to make him tenders of his future friendship and patronage. Sir Thomas, whose talent
was flattery, was profuse in his commendations of Johnson and his writings, and declared that,
were his circumstances other than they were, himself would settle L500 a year on him. 'And
who are you,' asked Johnson, 'that talk thus liberally?' 'I am,' said the other, 'Sir Thomas
Robinson, a Yorkshire baronet.' 'Sir,' replied Johnson, 'if the first peer of the realm were
to make me such an offer, I would shew him the way down stairs.'

[760] Paradise Lost, ii. 112. This metaphor may perhaps have been suggested to Johnson by Warburton.

[763] See post, Nov. 22, 1779, and April 8, 1780. Sir Henry Ellis says that 'address' in Johnson's
own copy of his letter to Lord Chesterfield is spelt twice with one d. Croker's Corres. ii.
44. In the series of Letters by Johnson given in Notes and Queries, 6th S. v, Johnson writes
persuit (p. 325); 'I cannot butt (p. 342); 'to retain council' (p. 343); harrassed (p. 423);
imbecillity (p. 482). In a letter to Nichols quoted by me, post, beginning of 1783, he writes
ilness. He commonly, perhaps always, spelt Boswell Boswel, and Nichols's name in one series
of letters he spelt Nichols, Nichol, and Nicol. Post, beginning of 1781, note.

[764] Dr. Johnson appeared to have had a remarkable delicacy with respect to the circulation
of this letter; for Dr. Douglas, Bishop of Salisbury, informs me that, having many years ago
pressed him to be allowed to read it to the second Lord Hardwicke, who was very desirous to
hear it (promising at the same time, that no copy of it should be taken), Johnson seemed much
pleased that it had attracted the attention of a nobleman of such a respectable character;
but after pausing some time, declined to comply with the request, saying, with a smile, 'No,
Sir; I have hurt the dog too much already;' or words to that purpose. BOSWELL.

[765] See post, June 4, 1781. It belongs to the same impression as The Life of Johnson.

[767] 'Je chante le vainqueur des vainqueurs de la terre.' Boileau, L'Art poetique, iii. 272.

[768] The following note is subjoined by Mr. Langton:--'Dr. Johnson, when he gave me this copy
of his letter, desired that I would annex to it his information to me, that whereas it is said
in the letter that "no assistance has been received," he did once receive from Lord Chesterfield
the sum of ten pounds; but as that was so inconsiderable a sum, he thought the mention of it
could not properly find place in a letter of the kind that this was.' BOSWELL. 'This surely
is an unsatisfactory excuse,' writes Mr. Croker. He read Johnson's letter carelessly, as the
rest of his note shews. Johnson says, that during the seven years that had passed since he
was repulsed from Chesterfield's door he had pushed on his work without one act of assistance.
These ten pounds, we may feel sure, had been received before the seven years began to run.
No doubt they had been given in 1747 as an acknowledgement of the compliment paid to Chesterfield
in the Plan. He had at first been misled by Chesterfield's one act of kindness, but he had
long had his eyes opened. Like the shepherd in Virgil (Eclogues, viii. 43) he could say:--'Nunc
scio quid sit Amor.'

[769] In this passage Dr. Johnson evidently alludes to the loss of his wife. We find the same
tender recollection recurring to his mind upon innumerable occasions: and, perhaps no man ever
more forcibly felt the truth of the sentiment so elegantly expressed by my friend Mr. Malone,
in his Prologue to Mr. Jephson's tragedy of JULIA [Julia or the Italian Lover was acted for
the first time on April 17, 1787. Gent. Mag. 1787, p. 354]:--

'Vain--wealth, and fame, and fortune's fostering care, If no fond breast the splendid blessings
share; And, each day's bustling pageantry once past, There, only there, our bliss is found
at last.' BOSWELL. Less than a month before he received Johnson's letter he wrote (Works, iii.
308):--'For these six months past, it seems as if all the complaints that ever attacked heads
had joined to overpower mine. Continual noises, headache, giddiness, and impenetrable deafness;
I could not stoop to write; and even reading, the only resource of the deaf, was painful to
me.' He wrote to his son a year earlier (Letters, iv. 43), 'Reading, which was always a pleasure
to me in the time even of my greatest dissipation, is now become my only refuge; and I fear
I indulge it too much at the expense of my eyes. But what can I do? I must do something. I
cannot bear absolute idleness; my ears grow every day more useless to me, my eyes consequently
more necessary. I will not hoard them like a miser, but will rather risk the loss than not
enjoy the use of them.'

[770] 'The English Dictionary was written with little assistance of the learned, and without
any patronage of the great; not in the soft obscurities of retirement, or under the shelter
of academick bowers, but amidst inconvenience and distraction, in sickness and in sorrow.'
Johnson's Works v. 51.

[771] Upon comparing this copy with that which Dr. Johnson dictated to me from recollection,
the variations are found to be so slight, that this must be added to the many other proofs
which he gave of the wonderful extent and accuracy of his memory. To gratify the curious in
composition, I have deposited both the copies in the British Museum. BOSWELL.

[772] Soon after Edwards's Canons of Criticism came out, Johnson was dining at Tonson the Bookseller's
with Hayman the Painter and some more company. Hayman related to Sir Joshua Reynolds, that
the conversation having turned upon Edwards's book, the gentlemen praised it much, and Johnson
allowed its merit. But when they went farther, and appeared to put that author upon a level
with Warburton, 'Nay, (said Johnson,) he has given him some smart hits to be sure; but there
is no proportion between the two men; they must not be named together. A fly, Sir, may sting
a stately horse and make him wince; but one is but an insect, and the other is a horse still.'
BOSWELL. Johnson in his Preface to Shakespeare (Works, v. 141) wrote:--'Dr. Warburton's chief
assailants are the authors of The Canons of Criticism, and of The Revisal of Shakespeare's
Text.... The one stings like a fly, sucks a little blood, takes a gay flutter and returns for
more; the other bites like a viper.... When I think on one with his confederates, I remember
the danger of Coriolanus, who was afraid that "girls with spits, and boys with stones, should
slay him in puny battle;" when the other crosses my imagination, I remember the prodigy in Macbeth:

"A falcon tow'ring in his pride of place, Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd."

Let me, however, do them justice. One is a wit and one a scholar.'

[773] To Johnson might be applied what he himself said of Dryden:--'He appears to have known
in its whole extent the dignity of his character, and to have set a very high value on his
own powers and performances.' Works, vii. 291.

[774] In the original Yet mark.

[775] In the original Toil.

[776] In his Dictionary he defined patron as 'commonly a wretch who supports with insolence
and is paid with flattery.' This definition disappears in the Abridgement, but remains in the
fourth edition.

[777] Chesterfield, when he read Johnson's letter to Dodsley, was acting up to the advice that
he had given his own son six years earlier (Letters, ii. 172):--'When things of this kind [bons
mots] happen to be said of you, the most prudent way is to seem not to suppose that they are
meant at you, but to dissemble and conceal whatever degree of anger you may feel inwardly:
and, should they be so plain, that you cannot be supposed ignorant of their meaning, so join
in the laugh of the company against yourself; acknowledge the hit to be a fair one, and the
jest a good one, and play off the whole thing in seeming good humour; but by no means reply
in the same way; which only shows that you are hurt, and publishes the victory which you might
have concealed.'

[778] See post, March 23, 1783, where Johnson said that 'Lord Chesterfield was dignified, but
he was insolent;' and June 27, 1784, where he said that 'his manner was exquisitely elegant.'

[779]

'Whate'er of mongrel no one class admits, A wit with dunces, and a dunce with wits.'

Pope's Dunciad, iv. 90.

'A true choice spirit we admit; With wits a fool, with fools a wit.'

Churchill's Duellist' Book iii.

'The solemn fop, significant and budge; A fool with judges, amongst fools a judge.'

Cowper's Poems, Conversation, 1. 299.

According to Rebecca Warner (Original Letters, p. 204), Johnson telling Joseph Fowke about
his refusal to dedicate his Dictionary to Chesterfield, said: 'Sir, I found I must have gilded
a rotten post.'

[780] That collection of letters cannot be vindicated from the serious charge of encouraging,
in some passages, one of the vices most destructive to the good order and comfort of society,
which his Lordship represents as mere fashionable gallantry; and, in others, of inculcating
the base practice of dissimulation, and recommending, with disproportionate anxiety, a perpetual
attention to external elegance of manners. But it must, at the same time, be allowed, that
they contain many good precepts of conduct, and much genuine information upon life and manners,
very happily expressed; and that there was considerable merit in paying so much attention to
the improvement of one who was dependent upon his Lordship's protection; it has, probably,
been exceeded in no instance by the most exemplary parent; and though I can by no means approve
of confounding the distinction between lawful and illicit offspring, which is, in effect, insulting
the civil establishment of our country, to look no higher; I cannot help thinking it laudable
to be kindly attentive to those, of whose existence we have, in any way, been the cause. Mr.
Stanhope's character has been unjustly represented as diametrically opposite to what Lord Chesterfield
wished him to be. He has been called dull, gross, and awkward; but I knew him at Dresden, when
he was Envoy to that court; and though he could not boast of the graces, he was, in truth,
a sensible, civil, well-behaved man. BOSWELL. See post, March 28, 1775, under April, 29, 1776,
and June 27, 1784.

[781] Chesterfield's Letters, iii. 129.

[782] Now one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State. BOSWELL. Afterwards Viscount
Melville.

[783] Probably George, second Earl of Macclesfield, who was, in 1752, elected President of
the Royal Society. CROKER. Horace Walpole (Letters, ii. 321) mentions him as 'engaged to a
party for finding out the longitude.'

[784] In another work (Dr. Johnson: His Friends and his Critics, p. 214), I have shewn that
Lord Chesterfield's 'Respectable Hottentot' was not Johnson. From the beginning of 1748 to
the end of 1754 Chesterfield had no dealings of any kind with Johnson. At no time had there
been the slightest intimacy between the great nobleman and the poor author. Chesterfield had
never seen Johnson eat. The letter in which the character is drawn opens with the epigram:

Non amo te, Sabidi, nee possum dicere quare, Hoc tantum possum dicere, non amo te.

Chesterfield goes on to show 'how it is possible not to love anybody, and yet not to know the
reason why.... How often,' he says, 'have I, in the course of my life, found myself in this
situation with regard to many of my acquaintance whom I have honoured and respected, without
being able to love.' He then instances the case of the man whom he describes as a respectable
Hottentot. It is clear that he is writing of a man whom he knows well and who has some claim
upon his affection. Twice he says that it is impossible to love him. The date of this letter
is Feb. 28, 1751, more than three years after Johnson had for the last time waited in Chesterfield's
outward rooms. Moreover the same man is described in three other letters (Sept. 22, 1749; Nov.
1749; and May 27, 1753), and described as one with whom Chesterfield lived on terms of intimacy.
In the two former of these letters he is called Mr. L. Lyttelton did not become Sir George
Lyttelton till Sept. 14, 1751. He was raised to the peerage in 1757. Horace Walpole (Reign
of George III, i. 256) says of him:--'His ignorance of mankind, want of judgment, with strange
absence and awkwardness, involved him in mistakes and ridicule.' Had Chesterfield's letter
been published when it was written, no one in all likelihood would have so much as dreamt that
Johnson was aimed at. But it did not come before the world till twenty-three years later, when
Johnson's quarrel with Chesterfield was known to every one, when Johnson himself was at the
very head of the literary world, and when his peculiarities had become a matter of general
interest.

[785] About four years after this time Gibbon, on his return to England, became intimate with
Mr. and Mrs. Mallet. He thus wrote of them:--'The most useful friends of my father were the
Mallets; they received me with civility and kindness at first on his account, and afterwards
on my own; and (if I may use Lord Chesterfield's words) I was soon domesticated in their house.
Mr. Mallet, a name among the English poets, is praised by an unforgiving enemy for the ease
and elegance of his conversation, and his wife was not destitute of wit or learning.' Gibbon's
Misc. Works, i 115. The 'unforgiving enemy' was Johnson, who wrote (Works, viii. 468):--'His
conversation was elegant and easy. The rest of his character may, without injury to his memory,
sink into silence.' Johnson once said:--'I have seldom met with a man whose colloquial ability
exceeded that of Mallet.' Johnson's Works, 1787, xi. 214. See post, March 27, 1772, and April
28, 1783; and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 10, 1773.

[786] Johnson had never read Bolingbroke's Philosophy. 'I have never read Bolingbroke's impiety,'
he said (post, under March 1, 1758). In the memorable sentence that he, notwithstanding, pronounced
upon the author, he exposed himself to the retort which he had recorded in his Life of Boerhaave
(Works, vi. 277). 'As Boerhaave was sitting in a common boat, there arose a conversation among
the passengers upon the impious and pernicious doctrine of Spinosa, which, as they all agreed,
tends to the utter overthrow of all religion. Boerhaave sat and attended silently to this discourse
for some time, till one of the company ... instead of confuting the positions of Spinosa by
argument began to give a loose to contumelious language and virulent invectives, which Boerhaave
was so little pleased with, that at last he could not forbear asking him, whether he had ever
read the author he declaimed against.'

[787] Lord Shelburne said that 'Bolingbroke was both a political and personal coward.' Fitzmaurice's
Shelburne, i. 29.

[788] It was in the summer of this year that Murphy became acquainted with Johnson. (See post,
1760.) 'The first striking sentence that he heard from him was in a few days after the publication
of Lord Bolingbroke's posthumous works. Mr. Garrick asked him, "if he had seen them." "Yes,
I have seen them." "What do you think of them?" "Think of them!" He made a long pause, and
then replied: "Think of them! a scoundrel and a coward! A scoundrel who spent his life in charging
a gun against Christianity; and a coward, who was afraid of hearing the report of his own gun;
but left half-a-crown to a hungry Scotchman to draw the trigger after his death!" His mind,
at this time strained and over laboured by constant exertion, called for an interval of repose
and indolence. But indolence was the time of danger; it was then that his spirits, not employed
abroad, turned with inward hostility against himself.' Murphy's Johnson, p. 79, and Piozzi's
Anec., p. 235. Adam Smith, perhaps, had this saying of Johnson's in mind, when in 1776 he refused
the request of the dying Hume to edit after his death his Dialogues on Natural Religion. Hume
wrote back:--'I think your scruples groundless. Was Mallet anywise hurt by his publication
of Lord Bolingbroke? He received an office afterwards from the present King and Lord Bute,
the most prudish man in the world.' Smith did not yield. J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 491.

[789] According to Horace Walpole (Letters, ii. 374), Pelham died of a surfeit. As Johnson
says (Works, viii. 310):--'The death of great men is not always proportioned to the lustre
of their lives. The death of Pope was imputed by some of his friends to a silver saucepan,
in which it was his delight to heat potted lampreys.' Fielding in The Voyage to Lisbon (Works,
x. 201) records:--'I was at the worst on that memorable day when the public lost Mr. Pelham.
From that day I began slowly, as it were, to draw my feet out of the grave.' '"I shall now
have no more peace," the King said with a sigh; being told of his Minister's death.' Walpole's
George II, i. 378.

[790] 'Thomas Warton, the younger brother of Dr. Warton, was a fellow of Trinity College, Oxford.
He was Poetry Professor from 1758 to 1768. Mant's Warton, i. xliv. In 1785 he was made Poet
Laureate. Ib. lxxxiii. Mr. Mant, telling of an estrangement between Johnson and the Wartons,
says that he had heard 'on unquestionable authority that Johnson had lamented, with tears in
his eyes, that the Wartons had not called on him for the last four years; and that he has been
known to declare that Tom Warton was the only man of genius whom he knew without a heart.'
Ib. xxxix.

[791] 'Observations on Spenser's Fairy Queen, the first edition of which was now just published.'
WARTON.

[792] 'Hughes published an edition of Spenser.' WARTON. See Johnson's Works, vii.476.

[793] 'His Dictionary.' WARTON.

[794] 'He came to Oxford within a fortnight, and stayed about five weeks. He lodged at a house
called Kettel hall, near Trinity College. But during this visit at Oxford, he collected nothing
in the libraries for his Dictionary.' WARTON.

[795] Pitt this year described, in the House of Commons, a visit that he had paid to Oxford
the summer before. He and his friends 'were at the window of the Angel Inn; a lady was desired
to sing God save great George our King. The chorus was re-echoed by a set of young lads drinking
at a college over the way [Queen's], but with additions of rank treason.' Walpole's George
II, i. 413.

[796] A Fellow of Pembroke College, of Johnson's time, described the college servants as in
'the state of servitude the most miserable that can be conceived amongst so many masters.'
He says that 'the kicks and cuffs and bruises they submit to entitle them, when those who were
displeased relent,' to the compensation that is afforded by draughts of ale. 'There is not
a college servant, but if he have learnt to suffer, and to be officious, and be inclined to
tipple, may forget his cares in a gallon or two of ale every day of his life.' Dr. Johnson:--His
Friends, &c., p. 45.

[797] It was against the Butler that Johnson, in his college days, had written an epigram:--

'Quid mirum Maro quod digne
        canit arma virumque,
    Quid quod putidulum nostra
        Camoena sonat?
Limosum nobis Promus dat callidus
        haustum;
    Virgilio vires uva Falerna dedit.
Carmina vis nostri scribant
        meliora Poetae?
    Ingenium jubeas purior haustus
        alat.'

[798] Pope, Eloisa to Abelard, 1. 38.

[799] Johnson or Warton misquoted the line. It stands:--'Mittit aromaticas vallis Saronica
nubes.' Husbands's Miscellany, p. 112.

[800] De Quincey (Works, xiii. 162), after saying that Johnson did not understand Latin 'with
the elaborate and circumstantial accuracy required for the editing critically of a Latin classic,'
continues:--'But if he had less than that, he also had more: he possessed that language in
a way that no extent of mere critical knowledge could confer. He wrote it genially, not as
one translating into it painfully from English, but as one using it for his original organ
of thinking. And in Latin verse he expressed himself at times with the energy and freedom of
a Roman.'

[801] Mr. Jorden. See ante, p. 59.

[802] Boswell (Hebrides, Aug. 19, 1773) says that Johnson looked at the ruins at St. Andrew's
'with a strong indignation. I happened to ask where John Knox was buried. Dr. Johnson burst
out, "I hope in the highway, I have been looking at his reformations."'

[803] In Reasmus Philipps's Diary it is recorded that in Pembroke College early in every November
'was kept a great Gaudy [feast], when the Master dined in public, and the juniors (by an ancient
custom they were obliged to observe) went round the fire in the hall.' Notes & Queries, 2nd
S. x. 443.

[804] Communicated by the Reverend Mr. Thomas Warton, who had the original. BOSWELL. In the
imaginary college which was to be opened by The Club at St. Andrew's, Chambers was to be the
professor of the law of England. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773; also post, July 5,
1773 and March 30, 1774.

[805] I presume she was a relation of Mr. Zachariah Williams, who died in his eighty-third
year, July 12, 1755. When Dr. Johnson was with me at Oxford, in 1755, he gave to the Bodleian
Library a thin quarto of twenty-one pages, a work in Italian, with an English translation on
the opposite page. The English titlepage is this: 'An Account of an Attempt to ascertain the
Longitude at Sea, by an exact Variation of the Magnetical Needle, &c. By Zachariah Williams.
London, printed for Dodsley, 1755.' The English translation, from the strongest internal marks,
is unquestionably the work of Johnson. In a blank leaf, Johnson has written the age, and time
of death, of the authour Z. Williams, as I have said above. On another blank leaf, is pasted
a paragraph from a newspaper, of the death and character of Williams, which is plainly written
by Johnson. He was very anxious about placing this book in the Bodleian: and, for fear of any
omission or mistake, he entered, in the great Catalogue, the title-page of it with his own
hand.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

In this statement there is a slight mistake. The English account, which was written by Johnson,
was the original the Italian was a translation, done by Baretti. See post, end of 1755. MALONE.
Johnson has twice entered in his own hand that 'Zachariah Williams, died July 12, 1755, in
his eighty-third year,' and also on the title-page that he was 82.

[806] See ante, p. 133.

[807] The compliment was, as it were, a mutual one. Mr. Wise urged Thomas Warton to get the
degree conferred before the Dictionary was published. 'It is in truth,' he wrote, 'doing ourselves
more honour than him, to have such a work done by an Oxford hand, and so able a one too, and
will show that we have not lost all regard for good letters, as has been too often imputed
to us by our enemies.' Wooll's Warton, p. 228.

[808] 'In procuring him the degree of Master of Arts by diploma at Oxford.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[809] 'Lately fellow of Trinity College, and at this time Radclivian librarian, at Oxford.
He was a man of very considerable learning, and eminently skilled in Roman and Anglo-Saxon
antiquities. He died in 1767.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[810] No doubt The Rambler.

[811] 'Collins (the poet) was at this time at Oxford, on a visit to Mr. Warton; but labouring
under the most deplorable languor of body, and dejection of mind.' WARTON. BOSWELL. Johnson,
writing to Dr. Warton on March 8, 1754, thus speaks of Collins:-'I knew him a few years ago
full of hopes, and full of projects, versed in many languages, high in fancy, and strong in
retention. This busy and forcible mind is now under the government of those who lately would
not have been able to comprehend the least and most narrow of its designs.' Wooll's Warton
1. 219. Again, on Dec. 24, 1754:--'Poor dear Collins! Let me know whether you think it would
give him pleasure if I should write to him. I have often been near his state, and therefore
have it in great commiseration.' Ib. p. 229. Again, on April 15, 1756:--'That man is no common
loss. The moralists all talk of the uncertainty of fortune, and the transitoriness of beauty:
but it is yet more dreadful to consider that the powers of the mind are equally liable to change,
that understanding may make its appearance and depart, that it may blaze and expire.' Ib. p.
239. See post, beginning of 1763.

[812] 'Of publishing a volume of observations on the best of Spenser's works. It was hindered
by my taking pupils in this College.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[813] 'Young students of the lowest rank at Oxford are so called.' WARTON.--BOSWELL. See Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 28, 1773.

[814] 'His Dictionary.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[815] Johnson says (Works, viii. 403) that when Collins began to feel the approaches of his
dreadful malady 'with the usual weakness of men so diseased he eagerly snatched that temporary
relief with which the table and the bottle flatter and seduce.'

[816] 'Petrarch, finding nothing in the word eclogue of rural meaning, supposed it to be corrupted
by the copiers, and therefore called his own pastorals aeglogues, by which he meant to express
the talk of goatherds, though it will mean only the talk of goats. This new name was adopted
by subsequent writers.' Johnson's Works, viii. 390.

[817] 'Of the degree at Oxford.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[818] This verse is from the long-lost Bellerophon, a tragedy by Euripides. It is preserved
by Suidas. CHARLES BURNEY. 'Alas! but wherefore alas? Man is born to sorrow.'

[819]

'Sento venir per allegrezza un tuono Que fremer l'aria, e rimbombar fa l'onrle:-- Odo di squille,'
&c.

Orlando Furioso. c. xlvi. s. 2.

[820] 'His degree had now past, according to the usual form, the surrages of the heads of Colleges;
but was not yet finally granted by the University. It was carried without a single dissentient
voice.' WARTON. BOSWELL.

[821] 'On Spenser.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[822] Lord Eldon wrote of him:--'Poor Tom Warton! He was a tutor at Trinity; at the beginning
of every term he used to send to his pupils to know whether they would wish to attend lecture
that term.' Twiss's Eldon, iii. 302.

[823] The fields north of Oxford.

[824] 'Of the degree.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[825] 'Principal of St. Mary Hall at Oxford. He brought with him the diploma from Oxford.'
WARTON.--BOSWELL. Dr. King (Anec. p. 196) says that he was one of the Jacobites who were presented
to the Pretender when, in September 1750, he paid a stealthy visit to England. The Pretender
in 1783 told Sir Horace Mann that he was in London in that very month and year and had met
fifty of his friends, among whom was the Earl of Westmoreland, the future Chancellor of the
University of Oxford. Mahon's England, iv. II. Hume places the visit in 1753. Burton's Hume,
ii. 462. See also in Boswell's Hebrides, the account of the Young Pretender. In 1754, writes
Lord Shelburne, 'Dr. King in his speech upon opening the Radcliffe Library at Oxford, before
a full theatre introduced three times the word Redeat, pausing each time for a considerable
space, during which the most unbounded applause shook the theatre, which was filled with a
vast body of peers, members of parliament, and men of property. Soon after the rebellion [of
1745], speaking of the Duke of Cumberland, he described him as a man, qui timet omnia prater
Deum. I presented this same Dr. King to George III. in 1760.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 35.

[826] 'I suppose Johnson means that my kind intention of being the first to give him the good
news of the degree being granted was frustrated, because Dr. King brought it before my intelligence
arrived.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[827] Dr. Huddesford, President of Trinity College.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[828] Extracted from the Convocation-Register, Oxford. BOSWELL.

[829] The Earl of Arran, 'the last male of the illustrious House of Ormond,' was the third
Chancellor in succession that that family had given to the University. The first of the three,
the famous Duke of Ormond, had, on his death in 1688, been succeeded by his grandson, the young
Duke. (Macaulay's England, iii. 159). He, on his impeachment and flight from England in 1715,
was succeeded by his brother, the Earl of Arran. Richardson, writing in 1754 (Carres. ii. 198),
said of the University, 'Forty years ago it chose a Chancellor in despite of the present reigning
family, whose whole merit was that he was the brother of a perjured, yet weak, rebel.' On Arran's
death in 1758, the Earl of Westmoreland, 'old dull Westmoreland' as Walpole calls him (Letters,
i. 290), was elected. It was at his installation that Johnson clapped his hands till they were
sore at Dr. King's speech (post, 1759). 'I hear,' wrote Walpole of what he calls the coronation
at Oxford, 'my Lord Westmoreland's own retinue was all be-James'd with true-blue ribands.'
Letters, iii. 237. It is remarkable that this nobleman, who in early life was a Whig, had commanded
'the body of troops which George I. had been obliged to send to Oxford, to teach the University
the only kind of passive obedience which they did not approve.' Walpole's George II, iii. 167.

[830] The original is in my possession, BOSWELL.

[831] We may conceive what a high gratification it must have been to Johnson to receive his
diploma from the hands of the great Dr. KING, whose principles were so congenial with his own.
BOSWELL.

[832] Johnson here alludes, I believe, to the charge of disloyalty brought against the University
at the time of the famous contested election for Oxfordshire in 1754. A copy of treasonable
verses was found, it was said, near the market-place in Oxford, and the grand jury made a presentment
thereon. 'We must add,' they concluded, 'that it is the highest aggravation of this crime to
have a libel of a nature so false and scandalous, published in a famous University, &c. Gent.
Mag. xxiv. 339. A reward of L200 was offered in the London Gazette for the detection of the
writer or publisher,' Ib. p. 377.

[833] A single letter was a single piece of paper; a second piece of paper, however small,
or any inclosure constituted a double letter; it was not the habit to prepay the postage. The
charge for a single letter to Oxford at this time was three-pence, which was gradually increased
till in 1812 it was eight-pence. Penny Cyclo. xviii. 455.

[834] 'The words in Italicks are allusions to passages in Mr. Warton's poem, called The Progress
of Discontent, now lately published.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

'And now intent on new designs, Sighs for a fellowship--and fines.

       *       *       *       *       *

These fellowships are pretty things, We live indeed like petty kings.

       *       *       *       *       *

And ev'ry night I went to bed, Without a Modus in my head.'

Warton's Poems, ii. 192.

For modus and fines see post, April 25, 1778.

[835] Lucretius, i. 23

[836]

'Hence ye prophane; I hate ye all, Both the Great Vulgar and the Small.'

Cowley's Imit. of Horace, Odes, iii. 1.

[837] Journal Britannique. It was to Maty that Gibbon submitted the manuscript of his first
work. Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 123.

[838] Maty, as Prof. de Morgan pointed out, had in the autumn of 1755 been guilty of 'wilful
suppression of the circumstances of Johnson's attack on Lord Chesterfield.' In an article in
his Journal he regrets the absence from the Dictionary of the Plan. 'Elle eut epargne a l'auteur
la composition d'une nouvelle preface, qui ne contient qu'en partie les memes choses, et qu'on
est tente de regarder comme destinee a faire perdre de vue quelques-unes des obligations que
M. Johnson avait contractees, et le Mecene qu'il avait choisi.' Notes and Queries, 2nd S. iv. 341.

[839] He left London in 1751 and returned to it in 1760. Memoirs of Dr. Barney, i. 85, 133.

[840] See ante, p. 183, note 2.

[841] Sir John Hawkins, p. 341, inserts two notes as having passed formally between Andrew
Millar and Johnson, to the above effect. I am assured this was not the case. In the way of
incidental remark it was a pleasant play of raillery. To have deliberately written notes in
such terms would have been morose. BOSWELL.

[842] 'Talking one day of the patronage the great sometimes affect to give to literature and
literary men, "Andrew Millar," says Johnson, "is the Maecenas of the age."' Johnson's Works
(1787), xi. 200. Horace Walpole, writing on May 18, 1749 (Letters ii. 163), says:--'Millar
the bookseller has done very generously by Fielding; finding Tom Jones, for which he had given
him six hundred pounds, sell so greatly, he has since given him another hundred.' Hume writing
on July 6, 1759, says:--'Poor Andrew Millar is declared bankrupt; his debts amount to above
L40,000, and it is said his creditors will not get above three shillings in the pound. All
the world allows him to have been diligent and industrious; but his misfortunes are ascribed
to the extravagance of his wife, a very ordinary case in this city.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii.
64. He must soon have recovered his position, for Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 434) met Millar
at Harrogate in 1763. In the inn were several baronets, and great squires, members of parliament,
who paid Millar civility for the use of his two newspapers which came to him by every post.
'Yet when he appeared in the morning, in his well-worn suit of clothes, they could not help
calling him Peter Pamphlet; for the generous patron of Scotch authors, with his city wife and
her niece, were sufficiently ridiculous when they came into good company.' Mr. Croker (Boswell,
p. 630) says that Millar was the bookseller described by Johnson, post, April 24, 1779. as
'habitually and equably drunk.' He is, I think, mistaken.

[843] His Dictionary. BOSWELL.

[844] 'A translation of Apollonius Rhodius was now intended by Mr. Warton.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[845] Kettel Hall is an ancient tenement built about the year 1615 by Dr. Ralph Kettel, President
of Trinity College, for the accommodation of commoners of that Society. It adjoins the College;
and was a few years ago converted into a private house. MALONE.

[846] 'At Ellsfield, a village three miles from Oxford.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[847] It was published on April 15, 1755, in two vols. folio, price L4 10s. bound. Johnson's
Works, v. 51.

[848] 'Booksellers concerned in his Dictionary.' WARTON.--BOSWELL. 'June 12, Mr. Paul Knapton,
bookseller. June 18, Thos. Longman, Esq., bookseller.' Gent. Mag., xxv. 284. The 'Esq.' perhaps
is a sign that even so early as 1755 the Longmans ranked higher than most of their brethren.

[849] 1. Own not in the original. Johnson's Works, v. 36.

[850] 'I have not always executed my own scheme, or satisfied my own expectations.' Johnson's
Works, p. 41.

[851] In the Plan of an English Dictionary (ib. p. 16) Johnson, writing of 'the word perfection'
says:--'Though in its philosophical and exact sense it can be of little use among human beings,
it is often so much degraded from its original signification, that the academicians have inserted
in their work, the perfection of a language, and, with a little more licentiousness, might
have prevailed on themselves to have added the perfection of a Dictionary.' In the Preface
to the fourth edition he writes:--'He that undertakes to compile a Dictionary undertakes that,
which if it comprehends the full extent of his design, he knows himself unable to perform.'
Ib. p. 52.

[852] Ib. p. 51.

[853] See post, under May 19, 1777.

[854] See ante, p. 186, note 5.

[855] He defines both towards the wind. The definitions remain unchanged in the fourth edition,
the last corrected by Johnson, and also in the third edition of the abridgment, though this
abridgment was made by him. Pastern also remains unaltered in this latter edition. In the fourth
edition he corrected it. 'The drawback of his character,' wrote Sir Joshua Reynolds, 'is entertaining
prejudices on very slight foundations; giving an opinion, perhaps, first at random, but from
its being contradicted he thinks himself obliged always to support it, or, if he cannot support,
still not to acquiesce. Of this I remember an instance of a defect or forgetfulness in his
Dictionary. I asked him how he came not to correct it in the second edition. "No," says he,
"they made so much of it that I would not flatter them by altering it."' Taylor's Reynolds,
ii. 461.

[856] In his Preface (Works, v. 50) he anticipated errors and laughter. 'A few wild blunders
and risible absurdities, from which no work of such multiplicity was ever free, may for a time
furnish folly with laughter and harden ignorance into contempt' In a letter written nearly
thirty years later he said:--'Dictionaries are like watches, the worst is better than none,
and the best cannot be expected to go quite true.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 406.

[857] See post, under July 20, 1762.

[858] 'Network. Anything reticulated or decussated, at equal distances, with interstices between
the intersections.' Reticulated is defined 'Made of network; formed with interstitial vacuities.'

[859] 'That part of my work on which I expect malignity most frequently to fasten is the Explanation....
Such is the fate of hapless lexicography, that not only darkness, but light, impedes and distresses
it; things may be not only too little, but too much known, to be happily illustrated.' Johnson's
Works, v. 34.

[860] In the original, 'to admit a definition.' Ib.

[861] In the original, 'drier.' Ib. 38.

[862] 'Tory. The name of a faction.' Lord Marchmont (post, May 12, 1778) said that 'Johnson
was the first that brought Whig and Tory into a dictionary.' In this he was mistaken. In the
fourth edition of Dr. Adam Littleton's Linguae Latinae Liber Dictionarius, published in 1703,
Whig is translated Homo fanaticus, factiosus; Whiggism, Enthusiasmus, Perduellio; Tory, bog-trotter
or Irish robber, Praedo Hibernicus; Tory opposed to whig, Regiarum partium assertor. These
definitions are not in the first edition, published in 1678. A pensioner or bride [bribed]
person is rendered Mercenarius. 'Did you ever hear,' wrote Sir Walter Scott, 'of Lord Elibank's
reply when Johnson's famous definition of oats was pointed out first to him. "Very true, and
where will you find such men and such horses?"' Croker's Carres, ii. 35. I wished to have procured
for my readers a copy of the opinion which he gave, and which may now be justly considered
as history; but the mysterious secrecy of office, it seems, would not permit it. I am, however,
informed, by very good authority, that its import was, that the passage might be considered
as actionable; but that it would be more prudent in the board not to prosecute. Johnson never
made the smallest alteration in this passage. We find he still retained his early prejudice
against Excise; for in The Idler, No. 65, there is the following very extraordinary paragraph:
'The authenticity of Clarendon's history, though printed with the sanction of one of the first
Universities of the world, had not an unexpected manuscript been happily discovered, would,
with the help of factious credulity, have been brought into question by the two lowest of all
human beings, a Scribbler for a party, and a Commissioner of Excise.'--The persons to whom
he alludes were Mr. John Oldmixon, and George Ducket, Esq. BOSWELL. Mr. Croker obtained a copy
of the case.

'Case for the opinion of Mr. Attorney-General.

'The author's definition being observed by the Commissioners of Excise, they desire the favour
of your opinion. "Qu. Whether it will not be considered as a libel, and if so, whether it is
not proper to proceed against the author, printers, and publishers thereof, or any and which
of them, by information, or how otherwise?"

'I am of opinion that it is a libel. But under all the circumstances, I should think it better
to give him an opportunity of altering his definition; and, in case he do not, to threaten
him with an information.

'29th Nov. 1755. W. Murray.' In one of the Parl. Debates of 1742 Johnson makes Pitt say that
'it is probable that we shall detect bribery descending through a long subordination of wretches
combined against the public happiness, from the prime minister surrounded by peers and officers
of state to the exciseman dictating politics amidst a company of mechanics whom he debauches
at the public expense, and lists in the service of his master with the taxes which he gathers.'
Parl. Hist., xii. 570. See ante, p. 36, note 5.

[867] He defined Favourite as 'One chosen as a companion by a superiour; a mean wretch, whose
whole business is by any means to please:' and Revolution as 'change in the state of a government
or country. It is used among us kat hexochaen for the change produced by the admission of King
William and Queen Mary.' For these definitions Wilkes attacked him in The North Briton, No.
xii. In the fourth edition Johnson gives a second definition of patriot:--'It is sometimes
used for a factious disturber of the government.' Premier and prime minister are not defined.
Post, April 14, 1775. See also ante, p. 264 note, for the definition of patron; and post, April
28, 1783 for that of alias.

[868] 'There have been great contests in the Privy Council about the trial of the Vice-Chancellor
of Oxford [on a charge of Jacobitism]: Lord Gower pressed it extremely. He asked the Attorney-General
his opinion, who told him the evidence did not appear strong enough. Lord Gower said:--"Mr.
Attorney, you seem to be very lukewarm for your party." He replied:--"My Lord, I never was
lukewarm for my party, nor ever was but of one party!"' Walpole's Letters, ii. 140. Mr. Croker
assumes that Johnson here 'attempted a pun, and wrote the name (as pronounced) Go'er. Johnson
was very little likely to pun, for 'he had a great contempt for that species of wit.' Post,
April 30, 1773.

[869] Boswell omits the salutation which follows this definition:

Chair Ithakae met haethla, met halgea pikra Haspasios teon oudas ikanomai.

'Dr. Johnson,' says Miss Burney, 'inquired if I had ever yet visited Grub-street, but was obliged
to restrain his anger when I answered "No;" because he had never paid his respects to it himself.
"However," says he, "you and I, Burney, will go together; we have a very good right to go,
so we'll visit the mansions of our progenitors, and take up our own freedom together."' Mme.
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 415.

[870] Lord Bolingbroke had said (Works, in. These men court fame, as well as their betters,
by such means as God has given them to acquire it.

[872] Ib. p. 51. 'In the preface the author described the difficulties with which he had been
left to struggle so forcibly and pathetically that the ablest and most malevolent of all the
enemies of his fame, Horne Tooke, never could read that passage without tears.' Macaulay's
Misc. Writings, p. 382. It is in A Letter to John Dunning, Esq. (p. 56) that Horne Tooke, or
rather Horne, wrote:--'I could never read his preface without shedding a tear.' See post, May
13, 1778. On Oct. 10, 1779, Boswell told Johnson, that he had been 'agreeably mistaken' in
saying:--'What would it avail me in this gloom of solitude?'

[873] It appears even by many a passage in the Preface--one of the proudest pieces of writing
in our language. Thomas Warton wrote to his brother:--'I fear his preface will disgust by the
expressions of his consciousness of superiority, and of his contempt of patronage.' Wooll's
Warton, p. 231.

[874] That praise was slow in coming is shown by his letter to Mr. Burney, written two years
and eight months after the publication of the Dictionary. 'Your praise,' he wrote, 'was welcome,
not only because I believe it was sincere, but because praise has been very scarce.... Yours
is the only letter of good-will that I have received; though, indeed, I am promised something
of that sort from Sweden.' Post, Dec. 24, 1757.

[875] In the Edinburgh Review (No. 1, 1755)--a periodical which only lasted two years--there
is a review by Adam Smith of Johnson's Dictionary. Smith admits the 'very extraordinary merit'
of the author. 'The plan,' however, 'is not sufficiently grammatical.' To explain what he intends,
he inserts 'an article or two from Mr. Johnson, and opposes to them the same articles, digested
in the manner which we would have wished him to have followed.' He takes the words but and
humour. One part of his definition of humour is curious--'something which comes upon a man
by fits, which he can neither command nor restrain, and which is not perfectly consistent with
true politeness.' This essay has not, I believe, been reprinted.

[876] She died in March 1752; the Dictionary was published in April 1755.

[877] In the Preface he writes (Works, v. 49):--'Much of my life has been lost under the pressures
of disease; much has been trifled away; and much has always been spent in provision for the
day that was passing over me.' In his fine Latin poem [Greek: Inothi seauton] 'he has left,'
says Mr. Murphy (Life, p. 82), 'a picture of himself drawn with as much truth, and as firm
a hand, as can be seen in the portraits of Hogarth or Sir Joshua Reynolds.' He wrote it after
revising and enlarging his Dictionary, and he sadly asks himself what is left for him to do.

Me, pensi immunis cum jam mihi reddor, inertis Desidiae sors dura manet, graviorque labore
Tristis et atra quies, et tardae taedia vitae. Nascuntur curis curae, vexatque dolorum Importuna
cohors, vacuae mala somnia mentis. Nunc clamosa juvant nocturnae gaudia mensae, Nunc loca sola
placent; frustra te, somne, recumbens, Alme voco, impatiens noctis, metuensque diei. Omnia
percurro trepidus, circum omnia lustro, Si qua usquam pateat melioris semita vitae, Nec quid
agam invenio.... Quid faciam? tenebrisne pigram damnare senectam Restat? an accingar studiis
gravioribus audax? Aut, hoc si nimium est, tandem nova lexica poscam?

Johnson's Works, i. 164.

[879] Macbeth, Act ii. sc. 3.

[880] In the third edition, published in 1773, he left out the words perhaps never, and added
the following paragraph:--

'It sometimes begins middle or final syllables in words compounded, as block-head, or derived
from the Latin, as compre-hended.' BOSWELL. In the Abridgment, which was published some years
earlier, after never is added 'except in compounded words.'

[881] It was published in the Gent. Mag. for April, 1755 (xxv. 190), just below the advertisement
of the Dictionary.

[882] In the original, 'Milton and Shakespeare.'

[883] The number of the French Academy employed in settling their language. BOSWELL.

[884] The maximum reward offered by a bill passed in 1714 was L20,000 for a method that determined
the longitude at sea to half a degree of a great circle, or thirty geographical miles. For
less accuracy smaller rewards were offered. Ann. Reg. viii. 114. In 1765 John Harrison received
L7,500 for his chronometer; he had previously been paid L2,500; ib. 128. In this Act of Parliament
'the legislature never contemplated the invention of a method, but only of the means of making
existing methods accurate.' Penny Cyclo. xiv. 139. An old sea-faring man wrote to Swift that
he had found out the longitude. The Dean replied 'that he never knew but two projectors, one
of whom ruined himself and his family, and the other hanged himself; and desired him to desist
lest one or other might happen to him.' Swift's Works (1803), xvii. 157. In She Stoops to Conquer
(Act i. sc. 2), when Tony ends his directions to the travellers by telling them,--'coming to
the farmer's barn you are to turn to the right, and then to the left, and then to the right
about again, till you find out the old mill;' Marlow exclaims: 'Zounds, man! we could as soon
find out the longitude.'

[885] Joseph Baretti, a native of Piedmont, came to England in 1750 (see Preface to his Account
of Italy, p. ix). He died in May, 1789. In his Journey from London to Genoa (ii. 276), he says
that his father was one of the two architects of the King of Sardinia. Shortly after his death
a writer in the Gent. Mag. (Iix. 469, 570), who was believed to be Vincent, Dean of Westminster,
thus wrote of him:--'Though his severity had created him enemies, his talents, conversation,
and integrity had conciliated the regard of many valuable friends and acquaintance. His manners
were apparently rough, but not unsocial. His integrity was in every period of his distresses
constant and unimpeached. His wants he never made known but in the last extremity. He and Johnson
had been friends in distress. One evening, when they had agreed to go to the tavern, a foreigner
in the streets, by a specious tale of distress, emptied the Doctor's purse of the last half-guinea
it contained. When the reckoning came, what was his surprise upon his recollecting that his
purse was totally exhausted. Baretti had fortunately enough to answer the demand, and has often
declared that it was impossible for him not to reverence a man, who could give away all that
he was worth, without recollecting his own distress.' See post, Oct. 20, 1769.

[886] See note by Mr. Warton, ante, p. 275. BOSWELL.

[887] 'On Saturday the 12th, about twelve at night, died Mr. Zachariah Williams, in his eighty-third
year, after an illness of eight months, in full possession of his mental faculties. He has
been long known to philosophers and seamen for his skill in magnetism, and his proposal to
ascertain the longitude by a peculiar system of the variation of the compass. He was a man
of industry indefatigable, of conversation inoffensive, patient of adversity and disease, eminently
sober, temperate, and pious; and worthy to have ended life with better fortune.' BOSWELL.

[888] Johnson's Works, v. 49. Malone, in a note on this passage, says:--'Johnson appears to
have been in this year in great pecuniary distress, having been arrested for debt; on which
occasion Richardson became his surety.' He refers to the following letter in the Richardson
Corres, v. 285:--

'To MR. RICHARDSON.

'Tuesday, Feb. 19, 1756.

'DEAR SIR,

'I return you my sincerest thanks for the favour which you were pleased to do me two nights
ago. Be pleased to accept of this little book, which is all that I have published this winter.
The inflammation is come again into my eye, so that I can write very little. I am, Sir, your
most obliged and most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

The 'little book' is not (as Mr. Croker suggests) Williams's Longitude, for it was published
in Jan. 1755 (Gent. Mag. xxv. 47); but the Abridgment of the Dictionary, which was advertised
in the Gent. Mag. for Jan. 1756. Murphy says (Life, p. 86), that he has before him a letter
in Johnson's handwriting, which shows the distress of the man who had written The Rambler,
and finished the great work of his Dictionary. It is directed to Mr. Richardson, and is as
follows:--

'SIR,--I am obliged to entreat your assistance. I am now under an arrest for five pounds eighteen
shillings. Mr. Strahan, from whom I should have received the necessary help in this case, is
not at home, and I am afraid of not finding Mr. Millar. If you will be so good as to send me
this sum, I will very gratefully repay you, and add it to all former obligations. I am, Sir,
your most obedient and most humble servant,

'SAMUEL JOHNSON.

 'Gough-Square,
  16 March.'

In the margin of this letter there is a memorandum in these words:--'March 16, 1756. Sent six
guineas. Witness, Win. Richardson.' In the European Mag., vii. 54, there is the following anecdote
recorded, for which Steevens most likely was the authority:--'I remember writing to Richardson'
said Johnson, 'from a spunging-house; and was so sure of my deliverance through his kindness
and liberality, that before his reply was brought I knew I could afford to joke with the rascal
who had me in custody, and did so over a pint of adulterated wine, for which at that instant
I had no money to pay.' It is very likely that this anecdote has no other foundation than Johnson's
second letter to Richardson, which is dated, not from a spunging-house, but from his own residence.
What kind of fate awaited a man who was thrown into prison for debt is shown by the following
passage in Wesley's Journal (ii. 267), dated Feb. 3, 1753:--'I visited one in the Marshalsea
prison, a nursery of all manner of wickedness. O shame to man, that there should be such a
place, such a picture of hell upon earth!' A few days later he writes:--'I visited as many
more as I could. I found some in their cells under ground; others in their garrets, half starved
both with cold and hunger, added to weakness and pain.'

[889] In a Debate on the Copyright Bill on May 16, 1774, Governor Johnstone said:--'It had
been urged that Dr. Johnson had received an after gratification from the booksellers who employed
him to compile his Dictionary. He had in his hand a letter from Dr. Johnson, which he read,
in which the doctor denied the assertion, but declared that his employers fulfilled their bargain
with him, and that he was satisfied.' Parl. Hist. xvii. 1105.

[890] He more than once attacked them. Thus in An Appeal to the Public, which he wrote for
the Gent. Mag. in 1739 (Works, v. 348), he said:--'Nothing is more criminal in the opinion
of many of them, than for an author to enjoy more advantage from his own works than they are
disposed to allow him. This is a principle so well established among them, that we can produce
some who threatened printers with their highest displeasure, for having dared to print books
for those that wrote them.' In the Life of Savage (ib. viii. 132), written in 1744, he writes
of the 'avarice, by which the booksellers are frequently incited to oppress that genius by
which they are supported.' In the Life of Dryden (ib. vii. 299), written in 1779, he speaks
of an improvement. 'The general conduct of traders was much less liberal in those times than
in our own; their views were narrower, and their manners grosser. To the mercantile ruggedness
of that race the delicacy of the poet was sometimes exposed.'

[891] Prayers and Meditations, p. 40 [25]. BOSWELL. Johnson wrote to Miss Boothby on Dec. 30,
1755:--'If I turn my thoughts upon myself, what do I perceive but a poor helpless being, reduced
by a blast of wind to weakness and misery?... Mr. Fitzherbert sent to-day to offer me some
wine; the people about me say I ought to accept it. I shall therefore be obliged to him if
he will send me a bottle.' Pioszi Letters, ii. 393.

[892] Prayers and Meditations, p. 27. BOSWELL

[893] See post, April 6, 1775. Kit Smart, once a Fellow of Pembroke Hall, Cambridge, ended
his life in the King's Bench Prison; 'where he had owed to a small subscription, of which Dr.
Burney was at the head, a miserable pittance beyond the prison allowance. In his latest letter
to Dr. Burney, he passionately pleaded for a fellow-sufferer, "whom I myself," he impressively
adds, "have already assisted according to my willing poverty." In another letter to the same
friend he said:--"I bless God for your good nature, which please to take for a receipt."' Memoirs
of Dr. Burney, i. 205, 280.

[894] In this Essay Johnson writes (Works, v. 315):--'I think there is room to question whether
a great part of mankind has yet been informed that life is sustained by the fruits of the earth.
I was once, indeed, provoked to ask a lady of great eminence for genius, "Whether she knew
of what bread is made."'

[895] In The Universal Visiter this Essay is entitled, 'Reflections on the Present State of
Literature;' and in Johnson's Works, v. 355, 'A Project for the Employment of Authors.' The
whole world, he says, is turning author. Their number is so large that employment must be found
for them. 'There are some reasons for which they may seem particularly qualified for a military
life. They are used to suffer want of every kind; they are accustomed to obey the word of command
from their patrons and their booksellers; they have always passed a life of hazard and adventure,
uncertain what may be their state on the next day.... There are some whom long depression under
supercilious patrons has so humbled and crushed, that they will never have steadiness to keep
their ranks. But for these men there may be found fifes and drums, and they will be well enough
pleased to inflame others to battle, if they are not obliged to fight themselves.'

[896] He added it also to his Life of Pope.

[897] 'This employment,' wrote Murphy (Life, p. 88), 'engrossed but little of Johnson's time.
He resigned himself to indolence, took no exercise, rose about two, and then received the visits
of his friends. Authors long since forgotten waited on him as their oracle, and he gave responses
in the chair of criticism. He listened to the complaints, the schemes, and the hopes and fears
of a crowd of inferior writers, "who," he said, in the words of Roger Ascham, "lived, men knew
not how, and died obscure, men marked not when." He believed, that he could give a better history
of Grub Street than any man living. His house was filled with a succession of visitors till
four or five in the evening. It is curious as showing the comparative population of the different
counties, Devonshire was to furnish 3200 men--twice as many as Lancashire. Essex, Kent, Norfolk
and Suffolk were each to furnish 1920 men; Lancashire, Surrey, Sussex, and Wiltshire 1600:
Durham and Bedfordshire 800. From the three Ridings of Yorkshire 4800 were to be raised. The
men were to be exercised every Sunday before and after service. The Literary Magazine, p. 58.

[900] In this paper are found the forcible words, 'The desperate remedy of desperate distress,'
which have been used since by orators. Ib. p. 121.

[901] Johnson considers here the war in America between the English and French, and shows a
strong feeling for the natives who had been wronged by both nations. 'Such is the contest that
no honest man can heartily wish success to either party.... The American dispute between the
French and us is only the quarrel of two robbers for the spoils of a passenger.' The French
had this in their favour, that they had treated the natives better than we. 'The favour of
the Indians which they enjoy with very few exceptions among all the nations of the northern
continent we ought to consider with other thoughts; this favour we might have enjoyed, if we
had been careful to deserve it.' Works, vi. 114, 122.

[902] These Memoirs end with the year 1745. Johnson had intended to continue them, for he writes:--'We
shall here suspend our narrative.' Ib. vi. 474.

[903] See ante, p. 221.

[904] The sentence continues:--'and produce heirs to the father's habiliments.' Ib. vi. 436.
Another instance may be adduced of his Brownism in the following line:--'The war continued
in an equilibration by alternate losses and advantages.' Ib 473.

[905] In a letter from the Secretary of the Tall Club in The Guardian, No. 108. 'If the fair
sex look upon us with an eye of favour, we shall make some attempts to lengthen out the human
figure, and restore it to its ancient procerity.'

[906] See post, March 23, 1783.

[907] 'As power is the constant and unavoidable consequence of learning, there is no reason
to doubt that the time is approaching when the Americans shall in their turn have some influence
on the affairs of mankind, for literature apparently gains ground among them. A library is
established in Carolina and some great electrical discoveries were made at Philadelphia...The
fear that the American colonies will break off their dependence on England I have always thought
chimerical and vain ... They must be dependent, and if they forsake us, or be forsaken by us,
must fall into the hands of France.' Literary Magazine, pp. 293, 299.

[908] Johnson, I have no doubt, wrote the Review of A True Account of Lisbon since the Earthquake,
in which it is stated that the destruction was grossly exaggerated. After quoting the writer
at length, he concludes:--'Such then is the actual, real situation of that place which once
was Lisbon, and has been since gazetically and pamphletically quite destroyed, consumed, annihilated!
Now, upon comparing this simple narration of things and facts with the false and absurd accounts
which have rather insulted and imposed upon us than informed us, who but must see the enormous
disproportion?... Exaggeration and the absurdities ever faithfully attached to it are inseparable
attitudes of the ignorant, the empty, and the affected. Hence those eloquent tropes so familiar
in every conversation, monstrously pretty, vastly little; ... hence your eminent shoe-maker,
farriers, and undertakers.... It is to the same muddy source we owe the many falsehoods and
absurdities we have been pestered with concerning Lisbon. Thence your extravagantly sublime
figures: Lisbon is no more; can be seen no more, etc., ... with all the other prodigal effusions
of bombast beyond that stretch of time or temper to enumerate. Ib. p. 22. See post, under March
30, 1778.

[909] In the original undigested.

[910] Johnson's Works, vi. 113.

[911] In the spring of 1784, after the king had taken advantage of Fox's India Bill to dismiss
the Coalition Ministry. See post, March 28, 1784.

[912] In Ireland there was no act to limit the duration of parliament. One parliament sat through
the whole reign of George II--thirty-three years. Dr. Lucas, a Dublin physician, in attacking
other grievances, attacked also this. In 1749 he would have been elected member for Dublin,
had he not, on a charge of seditious writings, been committed by the House of Commons to prison.
He was to be confined, he was told, 'in the common hall of the prison among the felons.' He
fled to England, which was all that the government wanted, and he practised as a physician
in London. In 1761 he was restored to the liberties of the City of Dublin and was also elected
one of its members. Hardy's Lord Charlemont, i. 249, 299; and Gent. Mag., xx. 58 and xxxi. 236.

[913] Boswell himself falls into this 'cant.' See post, Sept. 23, 1777.

[914] Johnson's Works, vi. II.

[915] Ib. p. 13. He vigorously attacks the style in which these 'Memoirs' are written. 'Sometimes,'
he writes, 'the reader is suddenly ravished with a sonorous sentence, of which, when the noise
is past, the meaning does not long remain.' Ib. p. 15.

[916] The author of Friendship in Death.

[917] In the Lives of the Poets (Works, viii. 383) Johnson writes:--'Dr Watts was one of the
first authors that taught the Dissenters to court attention by the graces of language. Whatever
they had among them before, whether of learning or acuteness, was commonly obscured and blunted
by coarseness and inelegance of style. He showed them that zeal and purity might be expressed
and enforced by polished diction.'

[918] 'Such he [Dr. Watts] was as every Christian Church would rejoice to have adopted.' Ib.
p. 380. See also post, July 7, 1777, and May 19, 1778.

[919] Johnson's Works, vi. 79.

[920] Mr. Hanway would have had the support of Johnson's father, who, as his son writes, 'considered
tea as very expensive, and discouraged my mother from keeping company with the neighbours,
and from paying visits or receiving them. She lived to say, many years after, that if the time
were to pass again, she would not comply with such unsocial injunctions.' Account of Johnson's
Early Life, p. 18. The Methodists, ten years earlier than Hanway, had declared war on tea.
'After talking largely with both the men and women Leaders,' writes Wesley, 'we agreed it would
prevent great expense, as well of health as of time and of money, if the poorer people of our
society could be persuaded to leave off drinking of tea.' Wesley's Journal, i. 526. Pepys,
writing in 1660, says: 'I did send for a cup of tee, (a China drink) of which I never had drank
before.' Pepys' Diary, i. 137. Horace Walpole (Letters, i. 224) writing in 1743 says:--'They
have talked of a new duty on tea, to be paid by every housekeeper for all the persons in their
families; but it will scarce be proposed. Tea is so universal, that it would make a greater
clamour than a duty on wine.' In October 1734 tea was sold in London at the following prices:--Ordinary
Bohca 9s. per lb. Fine Bohca 10s. to 12s. per lb. Pekoe 15s. per lb. Hyson 20s. to 25s. per
lb. Gent. Mag. iv. 575.

[921] Yet in his reply to Mr. Hanway he said (Works, vi. 33):--'I allowed tea to be a barren
superfluity, neither medicinal nor nutritious, that neither supplied strength nor cheerfulness,
neither relieved weariness, nor exhilarated sorrow.' Cumberland writes (Memoirs, i. 357):--'I
remember when Sir Joshua Reynolds at my house reminded Dr. Johnson that he had drank eleven
cups, he replied: "Sir, I did not count your glasses of wine, why should you number up my cups
of tea?" That 'he never felt the least inconvenience from it' may well be doubted. His nights
were almost always bad. In 1774 he recorded:--'I could not drink this day either coffee or
tea after dinner. I know not when I missed before.' The next day he recorded:--'Last night
my sleep was remarkably quiet. I know not whether by fatigue in walking, or by forbearance
of tea.' Diary of a Journey into North Wales, Aug. 4.

[923] See post, May, 1768.

[924]

'Losing, he wins, because his
     name will be
Ennobled by defeat who durst
     contend with me.'

DRYDEN, Ovid, Meta., xiii. 19.

[925] In Hanway's Essay Johnson found much to praise. Hanway often went to the root when he
dealt with the evils of life. Thus he writes:--'The introducing new habits of life is the most
substantial charity.' But he thus mingles sense and nonsense:--'Though tea and gin have spread
their baneful influence over this island and his Majesty's other dominions, yet you may be
well assured that the Governors of the Foundling Hospital will exert their utmost skill and
vigilance to prevent the children under their care from being poisoned, or enervated, by one
or the other.' Johnson's Works, vi. 26, 28.

[926] 'Et pourquoi tuer cet amiral? C'est, lui dit-on, parce qu'il n'a pas fait tuer assez
de monde; il a livre un combat a un amiral francais, et on a trouve qu'il n'etait pas assez
pres de lui. Mais, dit Candide, l'amiral francais etait aussi loin de l'amiral anglais que
celui-ci l'etait de l'autre. Cela est incontestable, lui repliquat-on; mais dans ce pays-ci
il est bon de tuer de temps en temps un amiral pour encourager les autres.' Candide, ch. xxiii.

[927] See post, June 3, 1781, when Boswell went to this church.

[928] Johnson reprinted this Review in a small volume by itself. See Johnson's Works, vi. 47, note.

[930] Musical Travels through England, by Joel Collier [not Collyer], Organist, 1774. This
book was written in ridicule of Dr. Burney's Travels, who, says his daughter, 'was much hurt
on its first appearance.' Dr. Burney's Memoirs, i. 259.

[931] See ante, p. 223.

[932] Some time after Dr. Johnson's death there appeared in the newspapers and magazines an
illiberal and petulant attack upon him, in the form of an Epitaph, under the name of Mr. Soame
Jenyns, very unworthy of that gentleman, who had quietly submitted to the critical lash while
Johnson lived. It assumed, as characteristicks of him, all the vulgar circumstances of abuse
which had circulated amongst the ignorant. It was an unbecoming indulgence of puny resentment,
at a time when he himself was at a very advanced age, and had a near prospect of descending
to the grave. I was truly sorry for it; for he was then become an avowed, and (as my Lord Bishop
of London, who had a serious conversation with him on the subject, assures me) a sincere Christian.
He could not expect that Johnson's numerous friends would patiently bear to have the memory
of their master stigmatized by no mean pen, but that, at least, one would be found to retort.
Accordingly, this unjust and sarcastick Epitaph was met in the same publick field by an answer,
in terms by no means soft, and such as wanton provocation only could justify:

'EPITAPH,

'Prepared for a creature not quite dead yet.

'Here lies a little ugly nauseous elf, Who judging only from its wretched self, Feebly attempted,
petulant and vain, The "Origin of Evil" to explain. A mighty Genius at this elf displeas'd,
With a strong critick grasp the urchin squeez'd. For thirty years its coward spleen it kept,
Till in the duat the mighty Genius slept; Then stunk and fretted in expiring snuff, And blink'd
at JOHNSON with its last poor puff.'

BOSWELL.

The epitaph is very likely Boswell's own. For Jenyns's conversion see post, April 12 and 15, 1778.

[933] Mr. John Payne, afterwards chief accountant of the Bank, one of the four surviving members
of the Ivy Lane Club who dined together in 1783. See Hawkins's Johnson, pp. 220, 563; and post,
December, 1783.

[934] See post, under March 19, 1776.

[935] 'He said, "I am sorry I have not learnt to play at cards. It is very useful in life;
it generates kindness and consolidates society."' Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 21, 1773.

[936] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3d edit. p. 48. [Aug. 19.] BOSWELL.

[937] Johnson's Works, p. 435.

[938] He was paid at the rate of a little over twopence a line. For this Introduction see Ib. 206.

[939] See post, Oct. 26, 1769.

[940] See post, April 5, 1775.

[941] In 1740 he set apart the yearly sum of L100 to be distributed, by way of premium, to
the authors of the best inventions, &c., in Ireland. Chalmers's Biog. Dict.

[942] Boulter's Monument. A Panegyrical Poem, sacred to the memory of that great and excellent
prelate and patriot, the Most Reverend Dr. Hugh Boulter; Late Lord-Archbishop of Ardmagh, and
Primate of All Ireland. Dublin, 1745. Such lines as the following might well have been blotted,
but of them the poem is chiefly formed:--

'My peaceful song in lays instructive paints The first of mitred peers and Britain's saints.'
p. 2. 'Ha! mark! what gleam is that which paints the air? The blue serene expands! Is Boulter
there?' p. 88.

The poet addresses Boulter's successor Hoadley, who he says,

'Shall equal him; while, like Elisha, you Enjoy his spirit, and his mantle too.' p. 89.

A note to mantle says 'Alluding to the metropolitan pallium.'

Boulter is the bishop in Pope's lines, (Prologue to the Satires, 1. 99):--

'Does not one table Bavius still admit?

'Still to one bishop Philips seem a wit?'

Pattison's Pope's Satires, p. 107. In the Life of Addison, Johnson mentioning Dr. Madden adds:--'a
name which Ireland ought to honour.' Johnson's Works, vii. 455.

[943] See ante, p. 175. Hawkins writes (Life, p. 363):--'I congratulated him length, on his
being now engaged in a work that suited his genius. His answer was:--"I look upon this as I
did upon the Dictionary; it is all work, and my inducement to it is not love or desire of fame,
but the want of money, which is the only motive to writing that I know of."'

[944] They have been reprinted by Mr. Malone, in the Preface to his edition of Shakspeare. BOSWELL.

[945] At Christmas, 1757, he said that he should publish about March, 1758 (post, Dec. 24,
1757). When March came he said that he should publish before summer (post, March 1, 1758).

[946] In what Johnson says of Pope's slow progress in translating the Iliad, he had very likely
his own case in view. 'Indolence, interruption, business, and pleasure all take their turns
of retardation; and every long work is lengthened by a thousand causes that can, and ten thousand
that cannot be recounted. Perhaps no extensive and multifarious performance was ever effected
within the term originally fixed in the undertaker's mind. He that runs against time has an
antagonist not subject to casualties.' Johnson's Works, viii. 255. In Prior's Goldsmith (i.
238) we have the following extracts from letters written by Grainger (post, March 21, 1776)
to Dr. Percy:--'June 27, 1758. I have several times called on Johnson to pay him part of your
subscription [for his edition of Shakespeare]. I say, part, because he never thinks of working
if he has a couple of guineas in his pocket; but if you notwithstanding order me, the whole
shall be given him at once.' 'July 20, 1758. As to his Shakespeare, movet sed non promovet.
I shall feed him occasionally with guineas.'

[947] Hawkins (Life, p. 440) says that 'Reynolds and some other of his friends, who were more
concerned for his reputation than himself seemed to be, contrived to entangle him by a wager,
or some other pecuniary engagement, to perform his task by a certain time.' Just as Johnson
was oppressed by the engagement that he had made to edit Shakespeare, so was Cowper by his
engagement to edit Milton. 'The consciousness that there is so much to do and nothing done
is a burthen I am not able to bear. Milton especially is my grievance, and I might almost as
well be haunted by his ghost, as goaded with such continual reproaches for neglecting him.'
Southey's Cowper, vii. 163.

[948] From The Ghost, Bk. iii. 1. 801. Boswell makes two slight errors in quoting: 'You cash'
should be 'their cash; and 'you know' should be 'we know.'

[949] See post, April 17, 1778.

[950] Mrs. Thrale writing to him in 1777, says:--'You would rather be sick in London than well
in the country.' Piozzi Letters. i. 394. Yet Johnson, when he could afford to travel, spent
far more time in the country than is commonly thought. Moreover a great part of each summer
from 1766 to 1782 inclusive he spent at Streatham.

[951] The motto to this number

'Steriles nec legit arenas, Ut caneret paucis, mersitque hoc pulvere verum.'

(Lucan).

Johnson has thus translated:--

'Canst thou believe the vast eternal mind Was e'er to Syrts and Libyan sands confin'd? That
he would choose this waste, this barren ground, To teach the thin inhabitants around, And leave
his truth in wilds and deserts drown'd?'

[952] It was added to the January number of 1758, but it was dropped in the following numbers.

[953] According to the note in the Gent. Mag. the speech was delivered 'at a certain respectable
talking society.' The chairman of the meeting is addressed as Mr. President. The speech is
vigorously written and is, I have no doubt, by Johnson. 'It is fit,' the speaker says, 'that
those whom for the future we shall employ and pay may know they are the servants of a people
that expect duty for their money. It is said an address expresses some distrust of the king,
or may tend to disturb his quiet. An English king, Mr. President, has no great right to quiet
when his people are in misery.'

[954] See post, May 19, 1777.

[955] See post, March 21, 1772.

[956] 'I have often observed with wonder, that we should know less of Ireland than of any other
country in Europe.' Temple's Works, iii. 82.

[957] The celebrated oratour, Mr. Flood has shewn himself to be of Dr. Johnson's opinion; having
by his will bequeathed his estate, after the death of his wife Lady Frances, to the University
of Dublin; 'desiring that immediately after the said estate shall come into their possession,
they shall appoint two professors, one for the study of the native Erse or Irish language,
and the other for the study of Irish antiquities and Irish history, and for the study of any
other European language illustrative of, or auxiliary to, the study of Irish antiquities or
Irish history; and that they shall give yearly two liberal premiums for two compositions, one
in verse, and the other in prose, in the Irish language.' BOSWELL.

[958] Dr. T. Campbell records in his Diary of a Visit to England (p. 62), that at the dinner
at Messieurs Dilly's (post, April 5, 1775) he 'ventured to say that the first professors of
Oxford, Paris, &c., were Irish. "Sir," says Johnson, "I believe there is something in what
you say, and I am content with it, since they are not Scotch."'

[959] 'On Mr. Thrale's attack of apoplexy in 1779, Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'I remember
Dr. Marsigli, an Italian physician, whose seizure was more violent than Mr. Thrale's, for he
fell down helpless, but his case was not considered as of much danger, and he went safe home,
and is now a professor at Padua.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 48.

[960] 'Now, or late, Vice-Chancellor.' WARTON.--BOSWELL. He was Vice-Chancellor when Johnson's
degree was conferred (ante, p. 282), but his term of office had now come to an end.

[961] 'Mr. Warton was elected Professor of Poetry at Oxford in the preceding year.' WARTON.-BOSWELL.

[962] 'Miss Jones lived at Oxford, and was often of our parties. She was a very ingenious poetess,
and published a volume of poems; and, on the whole, was a most sensible, agreeable, and amiable
woman. She was a sister to the Reverend River Jones, Chanter of Christ Church Cathedral at
Oxford, and Johnson used to call her the Chantress. I have heard him often address her in this
passage from Il Penseroso:

"Thee, Chantress, oft the woods among I woo," etc.

She died unmarried.' WHARTON

[963] Tom. iii. p. 482. BOSWELL.

[964] Of Shakspeare. BOSWELL.

[965] This letter is misdated. It was written in Jan. 1759, and not in 1758. Johnson says that
he is forty-nine. In Jan. 1758 he was forty-eight. He mentions the performance of Cleane, which
was at the end of 1758; and he says that 'Murphy is to have his Orphan of China acted next
month.' It was acted in the spring of 1759.

[966] Juvenal, Sat. iii. 1.

'Though grief and fondness in my breast rebel, When injured Thales bids the town farewell,
Yet still my calmer thoughts his choice commend, I praise the hermit, but regret the friend;
Resolved at length from vice and London far To breathe in distant fields a purer air, And fixed
on Cambria's solitary shore Give to St. David one true Briton more.'

Johnson's London, l. 1.

[967] Mr. Garrick. BOSWELL.

[968] Mr. Dodsley, the Authour of Cleone. BOSWELL. Garrick, according to Davies, had rejected
Dodsley's Cleone, 'and had termed it a cruel, bloody, and unnatural play.' Davies's Garrick,
i. 223. Johnson himself said of it:--'I am afraid there is more blood than brains.' Post, 1780,
in Mr. Langton's Collection. The night it was brought out at Covent Garden, Garrick appeared
for the first time as Marplot in the Busy Body at Drury Lane. The next morning he wrote to
congratulate Dodsley on his success, and asked him at the same time to let him know how he
could support his interest without absolutely giving up his own. To this Dodsley returned a
cold reply. Garrick wrote back as follows:--

'Master Robert Dodsley,

When I first read your peevish answer to my well-meant proposal to you, I was much disturbed
at it--but when I considered, that some minds cannot bear the smallest portion of success,
I most sincerely pitied you; and when I found in the same letter, that you were graciously
pleased to dismiss me from your acquaintance, I could not but confess so apparent an obligation,
and am with due acknowledgements,

Master Robert Dodsley,

Your most obliged

David Garrick.'

Garrick Corres., i. 80 (where the letters that passed are wrongly dated 1757). Mrs. Bellamy
in her Life (iii. 109) says that on the evening of the performance she was provoked by something
that Dodsley said, 'which,' she continues, 'made me answer that good man with a petulance which
afterwards gave me uneasiness. I told him that I had a reputation to lose as an actress; but,
as for his piece, Mr. Garrick had anticipated the damnation of it publicly, the preceding evening,
at the Bedford Coffee-house, where he had declared that it could not pass muster, as it was
the very worst piece ever exhibited.' Shenstone (Works, iii. 288) writing five weeks after
the play was brought out, says:--'Dodsley is now going to print his fourth edition. He sold
2000 of his first edition the very first day he published it.' The price was eighteen-pence.

[969] Mrs. Bellamy (Life, iii. 108) says that Johnson was present at the last rehearsal. 'When
I came to repeat, "Thou shalt not murder," Dr. Johnson caught me by the arm, and that somewhat
too briskly, saying, at the same time, "It is a commandment, and must be spoken, Thou shalt
not murder." As I had not then the honour of knowing personally that great genius, I was not
a little displeased at his inforcing his instructions with so much vehemence.' The next night
she heard, she says, amidst the general applause, 'the same voice which had instructed me in
the commandment, exclaim aloud from the pit, "I will write a copy of verses upon her myself."
I knew that my success was insured.' See post, May 11, 1783.

[970] Dodsley had published his London and his Vanity of Human Wishes (ante, pp. 124, 193),
and had had a large share in the Dictionary, (ante, p. 183).

[971] It is to this that Churchill refers in the following lines:--

'Let them [the Muses] with Glover o'er Medea doze; Let them with Dodsley wail Cleone's woes,
Whilst he, fine feeling creature, all in tears, Melts as they melt, and weeps with weeping Peers.'

The Journey. Poems, ii. 328.

[972] See post p. 350, note.

[973] Mr. Samuel Richardson, authour of Clarissa. BOSWELL.

[974] In 1753 when in Devonshire he charged five guineas a head (Taylor's Reynolds, i. 89);
shortly afterwards, when he removed to London, twelve guineas (ib. p. 101); in 1764, thirty
guineas; for a whole length 150 guineas (ib. p. 224). Northcote writes that 'he sometimes has
lamented the being interrupted in his work by idle visitors, saying, "those persons do not
consider that my time is worth to me five guineas an hour."' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 83.

[975] 'Miss Reynolds at first amused herself by painting miniature portraits, and in that part
of the art was particularly successful. In her attempts at oil-painting, however, she did not
succeed, which made Reynolds say jestingly, that her pictures in that way made other people
laugh and him cry; and as he did not approve of her painting in oil, she generally did it by
stealth.' Ib. ii. 160.

[976] Murphy was far from happy. The play was not produced till April; by the date of Johnson's
letter, he had not by any means reached the end of what he calls 'the first, and indeed, the
last, disagreeable controversy that he ever had with Mr. Garrick.' Murphy's Garrick, p. 213.

[977] This letter was an answer to one in which was enclosed a draft for the payment of some
subscriptions to his Shakspeare. BOSWELL.

[978] In the Preface he says:--(Works, v. 52) 'I have not passed over with affected superiority
what is equally difficult to the reader and to myself, but where I could not instruct him,
have owned my ignorance.'

[979] Northcote gives the following account of this same garret in describing how Reynolds
introduced Roubiliac to Johnson. 'Johnson received him with much civility, and took them up
into a garret, which he considered as his library; where, besides his books, all covered with
dust, there was an old crazy deal table, and a still worse and older elbow chair, having only
three legs. In this chair Johnson seated himself, after having, with considerable dexterity
and evident practice, first drawn it up against the wall, which served to support it on that
side on which the leg was deficient.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 75. Miss Reynolds improves on
the account. She says that 'before Johnson had the pension he literally dressed like a beggar;
and, from what I have been told, he as literally lived as such; at least as to common conveniences
in his apartments, wanting even a chair to sit on, particularly in his study, where a gentleman
who frequently visited him, whilst writing his Idlers, constantly found him at his desk, sitting
on one with three legs; and on rising from it, he remarked that Dr. Johnson never forgot its
defect, but would either hold it in his hand, or place it with great composure against some
support, taking no notice of its imperfection to his visitor. It was remarkable in Johnson,
that no external circumstances ever prompted him to make any apology, or to seem even sensible
of their existence.' Croker's Boswell, p. 832. There can be little question that she is describing
the same room--a room in a house in which Miss Williams was lodged, and most likely Mr. Levet,
and in which Mr. Burney dined; and in which certainly there must have been chairs. Yet Mr.
Carlyle, misled by her account, says:--'In his apartments, at one time, there were unfortunately
no chairs.' Carlyle's Miscellanies, ed. 1872, iv. 127.

[980] In his Life of Pope (Works, viii. 272) Johnson calls Theobald 'a man of heavy diligence,
with very slender powers.' In the Preface to Shakspeare he admits that 'what little he did
was commonly right.' Ib. v. 137. The Editors of the Cambridge Shakespeare on the other hand
say:--'Theobald, as an Editor, is incomparably superior to his predecessors, and to his immediate
successor Warburton, although the latter had the advantage of working on his materials. Many
most brilliant emendations are due to him.' On Johnson's statement that 'Warburton would make
two-and-fifty Theobalds, cut into slices,' they write:--'From this judgment, whether they be
compared as critics or editors, we emphatically dissent.' Cambridge Shakespeare, i., xxxi.,
xxxiv., note. Among Theobald's 'brilliant emendations' are 'a'babbled of green fields' (Henry
V, ii. 3), and 'lackeying the varying tide.' (Antony and Cleopatra, i.4).

[981] 'A familiar epistle [by Lord Bolingbroke] to the most impudent man living, 1749.' Brit.
Mus. Catal.

[982] 'Mallet, by address or accident, perhaps by his dependence on the prince [of Wales],
found his way to Bolingbroke, a man whose pride and petulance made his kindness difficult to
gain or keep, and whom Mallet was content to court by an act, which, I hope, was unwillingly
performed. When it was found that Pope had clandestinely printed an unauthorised number of
the pamphlet called The Patriot King, Bolingbroke, in a fit of useless fury, resolved to blast
his memory, and employed Mallet (1749) as the executioner of his vengeance. Mallet had not
virtue, or had not spirit, to refuse the office; and was rewarded not long after with the legacy
of Lord Bolingbroke's works.' Johnson's Works, viii. 467. See ante, p. 268, and Walpole's Letters,
ii. 159.

[983] A View of Lord Bolingbroke's Philosophy in Four Letters to a Friend, 1754-5.

[984] A paper under this name had been started seven years earlier. See Carter and Talbot Corres.,
ii. 33.

[985] In the two years in which Johnson wrote for this paper it saw many changes. The first
Idler appeared in No. 2 of the Universal Chronicle or Weekly Gazette, which was published not
by Newbery, but by J. Payne. On April 29, this paper took the title of Payne's Universal Chronicle,
etc. On Jan. 6, 1759, it resumed the old title and was published by R. Stevens. On Jan. 5,
1760, the title was changed to The Universal Chronicle and Westminster Journal, and it was
published by W. Faden and R. Stevens. On March 15, 1760, it was published by R. Stevens alone.
The paper consisted of eight pages. The Idler, which varied in length, came first, and was
printed in larger characters, much like a leading article. The changes in title and ownership
seem to show that in spite of Johnson's contributions it was not a successful publication.

[986] 'Those papers may be considered as a kind of syllabus of all Reynolds's future discourses,
and certainly occasioned him some thinking in their composition. I have heard him say, that
Johnson required them from him on a sudden emergency, and on that account, he sat up the whole
night to complete them in time; and by it he was so much disordered, that it produced a vertigo
in his head.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 89, Reynolds must have spoken of only one paper; as
the three, appearing as they did on Sept. 29, Oct. 20, and Nov. 10, could not have been required
at one time.

[987] 'To be idle and to be poor have always been reproaches, and therefore every man endeavours
with his utmost care to hide his poverty from others, and his idleness from himself.' The Idler,
No. 17.

[988] Prayers and Meditations, p. 30 [36], BOSWELL.

[989] In July, 1759.

[990] This number was published a few days after his mother's death. It is in the form of a
letter, which is thus introduced:-'The following letter relates to an affliction perhaps not
necessary to be imparted to the publick; but I could not persuade myself to suppress it, because
I think I know the sentiments to be sincere, and I feel no disposition to provide for this
day any other entertainment.'

[991] In the table of contents the title of No. 58 is, 'Expectations of pleasure frustrated.'
In the original edition of The Idler no titles are given. In this paper he shews that 'nothing
is more hopeless than a scheme of merriment.'

[992] In this paper he begins by considering, 'why the only thinking being of this globe is
doomed to think merely to be wretched, and to pass his time from youth to age in fearing or
in suffering calamities.' He ends by asserting that 'of what virtue there is, misery produces
far the greater part.'

[993] 'There are few things,' he writes, 'not purely evil, of which we can say, without some
emotion of uneasiness, this is the last.... The secret horrour of the last is inseparable from
a thinking being, whose life is limited, and to whom death is dreadful.'

[994] 'I asked him one day, why the Idlers were published without mottoes. He replied, that
it was forborne the better to conceal himself, and escape discovery. "But let us think of some
now," said he, "for the next edition. We can fit the two volumnes in two hours, can't we?"
Accordingly he recollected, and I wrote down these following (nine mottoes) till come friend
coming in, in about five minutes, put an end to our further progress on the subject.' Piossi
Letters, ii. 388.

[995] See post, July 14 and 26, 1763, April 14, 1775, and Aug. 2, 1784, note for instances
in which Johnson ridicules the notion that weather and seasons have any necessary effect on
man; also April 17, 1778. In the Life of Milton (Works. vii. 102), he writes:--'this dependence
of the soul upon the seasons, those temporary and periodical ebbs and flows of intellect, may,
I suppose, justly be derided as the fumes of vain imagination. Sapiens dominabitur astro. The
author that thinks himself weather-bound will find, with a little help from hellebore, that
he is only idle or exhausted. But while this notion has possession of the head, it produces
the inability with it supposes. Our powers owe much of their energy to our hopes; possunt quin
posse vidertur.' Boswell records, in his Hebrides (Aug. 16, 1773), that when 'somebody talked
of happy moments for composition,' Johnson said:--'Nay, a man may write at any time, if he
will set himself doggedly to it.' Reynolds, who Alas! avowed how much he had learnt from Johnson
(ante, p. 245), says much the same in his Seventh Discourse: 'But when, in plain prose, we
gravely talk of courting the Muse in shady bowers; waiting the call and inspiration of Genius
... of attending to times and seasons when the imagination shoots with the greatest vigour,
whether at the summer solstice or the vernal equinox ... when we talk such language or entertain
such sentiments as these, we generally rest contented with mere words, or at best entertain
notions not only groundless but pernicious.' Reynolds's Works, i. 150. In The Rambler, No.
80, he says:--'To the men of study and imagination the winter is generally the chief time of
labour. Gloom and silence produce composure of mind and concentration of ideas.' In a letter
to Mrs. Thrale, written in 1775, he says:--'Most men have their bright and their Cloudy days,
at least they have days when they put their powers into act, and days when they suffer them
to repose.' Piozzi Letters, i. 265. In 1781 he wrote:--'I thought myself above assistance or
obstruction from the seasons; but find the autumnal blast sharp and nipping, and the fading
world an uncomfortable prospect.' Ib. ii. 220. Again, in the last year of his life he wrote:--'The:
weather, you know, has not been balmy. I am now reduced to think, and am at least content to
talk, of the weather. Pride must have a fall.' Post, Aug. 2, 1784.

[996] Addison's Cato, act i. sc. 4.

[997] Johnson, reviewing the Duchess of Marlborough's attack on Queen Mary, says (Works, vi.
8):--'This is a character so different from all those that have been hitherto given of this
celebrated princess, that the reader stands in suspense, till he considers that ... it has
hitherto had this great advantage, that it has only been compared with those of kings.'

[998] Johnson had explained how it comes to pass that Englishmen talk so commonly of the weather.
He continues:--'Such is the reason of our practice; and who shall treat it with contempt? Surely
not the attendant on a court, whose business is to watch the looks of a being weak and foolish
as himself, and whose vanity is to recount the names of men, who might drop into nothing, and
leave no vacuity.... The weather is a nobler and more interesting subject; it is the present
state of the skies and of the earth, on which plenty and famine are suspended, on which millions
depend for the necessaries of life.' 'Garrick complained that when he went to read before the
court, not a look or a murmur testified approbation; there was a profound stillness--every
one only watched to see what the king thought.' Hazlitt's Conversations of Northcote, p. 262.

[999] The Idler, No. 90. See post, April 3, 1773, where he declaims against action in public
speaking.

[1000] He now and then repeats himself. Thus, in The Idler, No. 37, he moralises on the story,
how Socrates, passing through the fair at Athens, cried out:--'How many things are here which
I do not need!' though he had already moralised on it in the Adventurer, Nos. 67, 119.

[1001] No. 34.

[1002] Poems on Several Occasions, by Thomas Blacklock, p. 179. See post, Aug. 5, 1763, and
Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773.

[1003] 'Among the papers of Newbery, in the possession of Mr. Murray, is the account rendered
on the collection of The Idler into two small volumes, when the arrangement seems to have been
that Johnson should receive two-thirds of the profits.

The Idler.

'DR.                        L. s.  d.
Paid for Advertising..      20  0  6
Printing two vols., 1,500   41 13  0
Paper. . . . . . .          52  3  0
                           * * * * *
                          L113 16  6
Profit on the edition  .   126  3  6
                           * * * * *
                          L240  0  0
                           * * * * *
       'CR.                 L. s.  d.
1,500 Sets at 16L per 100 240  0  0
                           * * * * *
Dr. Johnson two-thirds      84  2  4
Mr. Newbery one-third.      42  1  2
                           * * * * *
                          L126  3  6
                           * * * * *

Forster's Goldsmith, i. 204.

If this account is correctly printed, the sale must have been slow. The first edition (2 vols.
5s.) was published in Oct. 1761, (Gent. Mag. xxxi. 479). Johnson is called Dr. in the account;
but he was not made an LL.D. till July 1765. Prior, in his Life of Goldsmith (i. 459), publishes
an account between Goldsmith and Newbery in which the first entry is:--

 '1761. Oct. 14, 1 set of
   The Idler. . . . . L0 50 0.'

Johnson, as Newbery's papers show, a year later bought a copy of Goldsmith's Life of Nash;
ib. p. 405.

[1004] See ante, p. 306.

[1005] This paper may be found in Stockdale's supplemental volume of Johnson's Miscellaneous
Pieces. BOSWELL. Stockdale's supplemental volumes--for there are two--are vols. xii. and xiii.
of what is known as 'Hawkins's edition.' In this paper (Works, iv. 450) he represents in a
fable two vultures speculating on that mischievous being, man, 'who is the only beast who kills
that which he does not devour,' who at times is seen to move in herds, while 'there is in every
herd one that gives directions to the rest, and seems to be more eminently delighted with a
wide carnage.'

[1006] 'Receipts for Shakespeare.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[1007] 'Then of Lincoln College. Now Sir Robert Chambers, one of the Judges in India.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[1008] Old Mr. Langton's niece. See post, July 14, 1763.

[1009] 'Mr. Langton.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[1010] Boswell records:--'Lady Di Beauclerk told me that Langton had never been to see her
since she came to Richmond, his head was so full of the militia and Greek. "Why," said I, "Madam,
he is of such a length he is awkward and not easily moved." "But," said she, "if he had lain
himself at his length, his feet had been in London, and his head might have been here eodem
die."' Boswelliana, p. 297.

[1011] 'Part of the impression of the Shakespeare, which Dr. Johnson conducted alone, and published
by subscription. This edition came out in 1765.' WARTON.--BOSWELL.

[1012] Stockdale records (Memoirs, ii. 191), that after he had entered on his charge as domestic
tutor to Lord Craven's son, he called on Johnson, who asked him how he liked his place. On
his hesitating to answer, he said: 'You must expect insolence.' He added that in his youth
he had entertained great expectations from a powerful family. "At length," he said, "I found
that their promises, and consequently my expectations, vanished into air.... But, Sir, they
would have treated me much worse, if they had known that motives from which I paid my court
to them were purely selfish, and what opinion I had formed of them." He added, that since he
knew mankind, he had not, on any occasion, been the sport of such delusion and that he had
never been disappointed by anyone but himself.'

[1013] This, and some of the other letters to Langton, were not received by Boswell till the
first volume of the second edition had been carried through the press. He gave them as a supplement
to the second volume. The date of this letter was there wrongly given as June 27, 1758. In
the third edition it was corrected. Nevertheless the letter was misplaced as if the wrong date
were the right one. Langton, as I have shewn (ante, p. 247), subscribed the articles at Oxford
on July 7, 1757. He must have come into residence, as Johnson did (ante, p. 58), some little
while before this subscription.

[1014] Major-General Alexander Dury, of the first regiment of foot-guards, who fell in the
gallant discharge of his duty, near St. Cas, in the well-known unfortunate expedition against
France, in 1758. His lady and Mr. Langton's mother was sisters. He left an only son, Lieutenant-Colonel
Dury, who has a company in the same regiment. BOSWELL. The expedition had been sent against
St. Malo early in September. Failing in the attempt, the land forces retreated to St. Cas,
where, while embarking, they were attacked by the French. About 400 of our soldiers were made
prisoners, and 600 killed and wounded. Ann. Reg.i.68.

[1015] See post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea.

[1016] Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 365. BOSWELL. 'In the beginning of the year 1759 an event
happened for which it might be imagined he was well prepared, the death of his mother, who
had attained the age of ninety; but he, whose mind had acquired no firmness by the contemplation
of mortality, was as little able to sustain the shock, as he would have been had this loss
befallen him in his nonage.'

[1017] We may apply to Johnson in his behaviour to his mother what he said of Pope in his behaviour
to his parents:--'Whatever was his pride, to them he was obedient; and whatever was his irritability,
to them he was gentle. Life has among its soothing and quiet comforts few things better to
give than such a son.' Johnson's Works, viii. 281. In The Idler of January 27, 1759 (No. 41),
Johnson shews his grief for his loss. 'The last year, the last day must come. It has come,
and is past. The life which made my own life pleasant is at an end, and the gates of death
are shut upon my prospects.... Such is the condition of our present existence that life must
one time lose its associations, and every inhabitant of the earth must walk downward to the
grave alone and unregarded, without any partner of his joy or grief, without any interested
witness of his misfortunes or success. Misfortune, indeed, he may yet feel; for where is the
bottom of the misery of man? But what is success to him that has none to enjoy it? Happiness
is not found in self-contemplation; it is perceived only when it is reflected from another.'
In Rasselas (ch. xlv.) he makes a sage say with a sigh:--'Praise is to have an old man an empty
sound. I have neither mother to be delighted with the reputation of her son, nor wife to partake
the honours of her husband.' He here says once more what he had already said in his Letter
to Lord Chesterfield (ante, p. 261), and in the Preface to the Dictionary (ante, p. 297).

[1018] Writing to his Birmingham friend, Mr. Hector, on Oct. 7, 1756, he said:--'I have been
thinking every month of coming down into the country, but every month has brought its hinderances.
From that kind of melancholy indisposition which I had when we lived together at Birmingham
I have never been free, but have always had it operating against my health and my life with
more or less violence. I hope however to see all my friends, all that are remaining, in no
very long time.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. iii. 301. No doubt his constant poverty and the
need that he was under of making 'provision for the day that was passing over him' had had
much to do in keeping him from a journey to Lichfield. A passage in one of his letters shews
that fourteen years later the stage-coach took twenty-six hours in going from London to Lichfield.
(Piozzi Letters, i. 55.) The return journey was very uncertain; for 'our carriages,' he wrote,
'are only such as pass through the place sometimes full and sometimes vacant.' A traveller
had to watch for a place (ib. p. 51). As measured by time London was, in 1772, one hour farther
from Lichfield than it now is from Marseilles. It is strange, when we consider the long separation
between Johnson and his mother, that in Rasselas, written just after her death, he makes Imlac
say:-'There is such communication [in Europe] between distant places, that one friend can hardly
be said to be absent from another.' Rasselas, chap, xi. His step-daughter, Miss Porter, though
for many years she was well off, had never been to London. Post, March 23, 1776. Nay, according
to Horace Walpole (Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iv. 327), 'George III. had never seen
the sea, nor ever been thirty miles from London at the age of thirty-four.'

[1019] For the letters written at this time by Johnson to his mother and Miss Porter, see Appendix
B.

[1020] Rasselas was published in two volumes, duodecimo, and was sold for five shillings. It
was reviewed in the Gent. Mag. for April, and was no doubt published in that month. In a letter
to Miss Porter dated March 23, 1759 (See Appendix), Johnson says:--'I am going to publish a
little story-book, which I will send you when it is out.' I may here remark that the Gent.
Mag. was published at the end of the month, or even later. Thus the number for April, 1759,
contains news as late as April 30. The name Rasselas Johnson got from Lobo's Voyage to Abyssinia.
On p. 102 of that book he mentions 'Rassela Christos, Lieutenant-General to Abysinia; Sultan
Segued.' On p. 262 he explains the meaning of the first part of the word:--'There is now a
Generalissimo established under the title of Ras, or Chief.' The title still exists. Colonel
Gordon mentions Ras Arya and Ras Aloula. The Rev. W. West, in his Introduction to Rasselas,
p. xxxi (Sampson Low and Co.), says:--'The word Ras, which is common to the Amharic, Arabic,
and Hebrew tongues, signifies a head, and hence a prince, chief, or captain.... Sela Christos
means either "Picture of Christ," or "For the sake of Christ."'

[1021] Hawkins's Johnson, p. 367.

[1022] See post, June 2, 1781. Finding it then accidentally in a chaise with Mr. Boswell, he
read it eagerly. This was doubtless long after his declaration to Sir Joshua Reynolds. MALONE.

[1023] Baretti told Malone that 'Johnson insisted on part of the money being paid immediately,
and accordingly received L70. Any other person with the degree of reputation he then possessed
would have got L400 for that work, but he never understood the art of making the most of his
productions.' Prior's Malone, p. 160. Some of the other circumstances there related by Baretti
are not correct.

[1024] Hawkesworth received L6000 for his revision of Cook's Voyages; post, May 7, 1773.

[1025] See post, March 4, 1773.

[1026] Ecclesiastes, i. 14.

[1027] See post, May 16, 1778. It should seem that Candide was published in the latter half
of February 1759. Grimm in his letter of March 1, speaks of its having just appeared. 'M. de
Voltaire vient de nous egayer par un petit roman.' He does not mention it in his previous letter
of Feb. 15. Grimm, Carres. Lit. (edit. 1829), ii. 296. Johnson's letter to Miss Porter, quoted
in the Appendix, shows that Rasselas was written before March 23; how much earlier cannot be
known. Candide is in the May list of books in the Gent. Mag. (pp. 233-5), price 2s. 6d., and
with it two translations, each price 1s. 6d.

[1028] See post, June 13, 1763.

[1029] In the original,--'which, perhaps, prevails.' Rasselas, ch. xxxi.

[1030] This is the second time that Boswell puts 'morbid melancholy' in quotation marks (ante,
p. 63). Perhaps he refers to a passage in Hawkins's Johnson (p. 287), where the author speaks
of Johnson's melancholy as 'this morbid affection, as he was used to call it.'

[1031] 'Perfect through sufferings.' Hebrews, ii. 10.

[1032] Perhaps the reference is to the conclusion of Le Monde comme il va:--'Il resolut ...
de laisser aller le monde comme il va; car, dit il, si tout riest pas bien, tout est passable.'

[1033] Gray, On a Distant Prospect of Eton College.

[1034] Johnson writing to Mrs. Thrale said:--'Vivite lacti is one of the great rules of health.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 55. 'It was the motto of a bishop very eminent for his piety and good works
in King Charles the Second's reign, Inservi Deo et laetare--"Serve God and be cheerful."' Addison's
Freeholder, No. 45.

[1035] Literary and Moral Character of Dr. Johnson. BOSWELL.

[1036] This paper was in such high estimation before it was collected into volumes, that it
was seized on with avidity by various publishers of news-papers and magazines, to enrich their
publications. Johnson, to put a stop to this unfair proceeding, wrote for the Universal Chronicle
the following advertisement; in which there is, perhaps, more pomp of words than the occasion
demanded:

'London, January 5, 1759. ADVERTISEMENT. The proprietors of the paper intitled The Idler, having
found that those essays are inserted in the news-papers and magazines with so little regard
to justice or decency, that the Universal Chronicle, in which they first appear, is not always
mentioned, think it necessary to declare to the publishers of those collections, that however
patiently they have hitherto endured these injuries, made yet more injurious by contempt, they
have now determined to endure them no longer. They have already seen essays, for which a very
large price is paid, transferred, with the most shameless rapacity, into the weekly or monthly
compilations, and their right, at least for the present, alienated from them, before they could
themselves be said to enjoy it. But they would not willingly be thought to want tenderness,
even for men by whom no tenderness hath been shewn. The past is without remedy, and shall be
without resentment. But those who have been thus busy with their sickles in the fields of their
neighbours, are henceforward to take notice, that the time of impunity is at an end. Whoever
shall, without our leave, lay the hand of rapine upon our papers, is to expect that we shall
vindicate our due, by the means which justice prescribes, and which are warranted by the immemorial
prescriptions of honourable trade. We shall lay hold, in our turn, on their copies, degrade
them from the pomp of wide margin and diffuse typography, contract them into a narrow space,
and sell them at an humble price; yet not with a view of growing rich by confiscations, for
we think not much better of money got by punishment than by crimes. We shall, therefore, when
our losses are repaid, give what profit shall remain to the Magdalens; for we know not who
can be more properly taxed for the support of penitent prostitutes, than prostitutes in whom
there yet appears neither penitence nor shame.' BOSWELL.

[1037] I think that this letter belongs to a later date, probably to 1765 or 1766. As we learn,
post, April 10, 1776, Simpson was a barrister 'who fell into a dissipated course of life.'
On July 2, 1765, Johnson records that he repaid him ten guineas which he had borrowed in the
lifetime of Mrs. Johnson (his wife). He also lent him ten guineas more. If it was in 1759 that
Simpson was troubled by small debts, it is most unlikely that Johnson let six years more pass
without repaying him a loan which even then was at least of seven years' standing. Moreover,
in this letter Johnson writes:--'I have been invited, or have invited myself, to several parts
of the kingdom.' The only visits, it seems, that he paid between 1754-1762 were to Oxford in
1759 and to Lichfield in the winter of 1761-2. After 1762, when his pension gave him means,
he travelled frequently. Besides all this, he says of his step-daughter:-- 'I will not incommode
my dear Lucy by coming to Lichfield, while her present lodging is of any use to her.' Miss
Porter seems to have lived in his house till she had built one for herself. Though his letter
to her of Jan. 10, 1764 (Croker's Boswell, p. 163), shews that it was then building, yet she
had not left his house on Jan. 14, 1766 (ib. p. 173). A passage in one of Boswell's Letters
to Temple (p. 111) may also be quoted here:--'The time was when such a letter from my father
as the one I enclose would have depressed; but I am now firm, and, as my revered friend, Mr.
Samuel Johnson, used to say, I feel the privileges of an independent human being; however,
it is hard that I cannot have the pious satisfaction of being well with my father.'

[1039] Perhaps 'Van,' for Vansittart.

[1040] Lord Stowell informs me that Johnson prided himself in being, during his visits to Oxford,
accurately academic in all points: and he wore his gown almost ostentatiously. CROKER.

[1041] Dr. Robert Vansittart, of the ancient and respectable family of that name in Berkshire.
He was eminent for learning and worth, and much esteemed by Dr. Johnson. BOSWELL. Johnson perhaps
proposed climbing over the wall on the day on which 'University College witnessed him drink
three bottles of port without being the worse for it.' Post, April 7, 1778.

[1042] Gentleman's Magazine, April, 1785. BOSWELL. The speech was made on July 7, 1759, the
last day of 'the solemnity of the installment' of the Earl of Westmoreland as Chancellor of
the University. On the 3rd 'the ceremony began with a grand procession of noblemen, doctors,
&c., in their proper habits, which passed through St. Mary's, and was there joined by the Masters
of Arts in their proper habits; and from thence proceeded to the great gate of the Sheldonian
Theatre, in which the most numerous and brilliant assembly of persons of quality and distinction
was seated, that had ever been seen there on any occasion.' Gent. Mag. xxix. 342. Would that
we had some description of Johnson, as, in his new and handsome gown, he joined the procession
among the Masters! See ante, p. 281.

[1043] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3d edit. p. 126 [Aug. 31]. BOSWELL. The chance of
death from disease would seem also to have been greater on the ship than in a jail. In The
Idler (No. 38) Johnson estimates that one in four of the prisoners dies every year. In his
Review of Hanway's Essay on Tea (Works, vi. 31) he states that he is told that 'of the five
or six hundred seamen sent to China, sometimes half, commonly a third part, perish in the voyage.'
See post, April 10, 1778.

[1044] Ibid. p. 251 [Sept. 23]. BOSWELL.

[1045] In my first edition this word was printed Chum, as it appears, in one of Mr. Wilkes's
Miscellanies, and I animadverted on Dr. Smollet's ignorance; for which let me propitiate the
manes of that ingenious and benevolent gentleman. CHUM was certainly a mistaken reading for
Cham, the title of the Sovereign of Tartary, which is well applied to Johnson, the Monarch
of Literature; and was an epithet familiar to Smollet. See Roderick Random, chap. 56. For this
correction I am indebted to Lord Palmerston, whose talents and literary acquirements accord
well with his respectable pedigree of TEMPLE BOSWELL.

After the publication of the second edition of this work, the author was furnished by Mr. Abercrombie,
of Philadelphia, with the copy of a letter written by Dr. John Armstrong, the poet, to Dr.
Smollet at Leghorne, containing the following paragraph:--'As to the K. Bench patriot, it is
hard to say from what motive he published a letter of yours asking some triffling favour of
him in behalf of somebody, for whom the great CHAM of literature, Mr. Johnson, had interested
himself.' MALONE. In the first edition Boswell had said:--'Had Dr. Smollet been bred at an
English University, he would have know that a chum is a student who lives with another in a
chamber common to them both. A chum of literature is nonsense.'

[1046] In a note to that piece of bad book-making, Almon's Memoirs of Wilkes (i. 47), this
allusion is thus explained:-'A pleasantry of Mr. Wilkes on that passage in Johnson's Grammar
of the English Tongue, prefixed to the Dictionary--"H seldom, perhaps never, begins any but
the first syllable."' For this 'pleasantry' see ante, p. 300.

[1047] Mr. Croker says that he was not discharged till June 1760. Had he been discharged at
once he would have found Johnson moving from Gough Square to Staple Inn; for in a letter to
Miss Porter, dated March 23, 1739, given in the Appendix, Johnson said:-'I have this day moved
my things, and you are now to direct to me at Staple Inn.'

[1048] Prayers and Meditations , pp. 30 [39] and 40. BOSWELL.

[1049] 'I have left off housekeeping' wrote Johnson to Langton on Jan. 9, 1759. Murphy (Life,
p. 90), writing of the beginning of the year 1759, says:--'Johnson now found it necessary to
retrench his expenses. He gave up his house in Gough Square. Mrs. Williams went into lodgings
[See post, July 1, 1763]. He retired to Gray's-Inn, [he had first moved to Staple Inn], and
soon removed to chambers in the Inner Temple-lane, where he lived in poverty, total idleness,
and the pride of literature, Magni stat nominis umbra. Mr. Fitzherbert used to say that he
paid a morning visit to Johnson, intending from his chambers to send a letter into the city;
but, to his great surprise, he found an authour by profession without pen, ink, or paper.'
(It was Mr. Fitzherbert, who sent Johnson some wine. See ante, p. 305, note 2. See also post,
Sept. 15, 1777). The following documents confirm Murphy's statement of Johnson's poverty at
this time:

'May 19, 1759.

'I promise to pay to Mr. Newbery the sum of forty-two pounds, nineteen shillings, and ten pence
on demand, value received. L42 19 10.

'Sam. Johnson.'

'March 20, 1760.

'I promise to pay to Mr. Newbery the sum of thirty pounds upon demand., L30 0 0.

'Sam. Johnson.'

In 1751 he had thrice borrowed money of Newbery, but the total amount of the loans was only
four guineas. Prior's Goldsmith, i. 340. With Johnson's want of pen, ink, and paper we may
compare the account that he gives of Savage's destitution (Works, viii. 3):--'Nor had he any
other conveniences for study than the fields or the streets allowed him; there he used to walk
and form his speeches, and afterwards step into a shop, beg for a few moments the use of the
pen and ink, and write down what he had composed upon paper which he had picked up by accident.'
Hawkins (Life, p. 383) says that Johnson's chambers were two doors down the Inner Temple Lane.
'I have been told,' he continues, 'by his neighbour at the corner, that during the time he
dwelt there, more inquiries were made at his shop for Mr. Johnson, than for all the inhabitants
put together of both the Inner and Middle Temple.' In a court opening out of Fleet Street,
Goldsmith at this very time was still more miserably lodged. In the beginning of March 1759,
Percy found him 'employed in writing his Enquiry into Polite Learning in a wretched dirty room,
in which there was but one chair, and when he from civility offered it to his visitant, himself
was obliged to sit in the window.' Goldsmith's Misc. Works, i. 61.

[1050] Sir John Hawkins (Life, p. 373) has given a long detail of it, in that manner vulgarly,
but significantly, called rigmarole; in which, amidst an ostentatious exhibition of arts and
artists, he talks of 'proportions of a column being taken from that of the human figure, and
adjusted by Nature--masculine and feminine--in a man, sesquioctave of the head, and in a woman
sesquinonal;' nor has he failed to introduce a jargon of musical terms, which do not seem much
to correspond with the subject, but serve to make up the heterogeneous mass. To follow the
Knight through all this, would be an useless fatigue to myself, and not a little disgusting
to my readers. I shall, therefore, only make a few remarks upon his statement.--He seems to
exult in having detected Johnson in procuring 'from a person eminently skilled in Mathematicks
and the principles of architecture, answers to a string of questions drawn up by himself, touching
the comparative strength of semicircular and elliptical arches.' Now I cannot conceive how
Johnson could have acted more wisely. Sir John complains that the opinion of that excellent
mathematician, Mr. Thomas Simpson, did not preponderate in favour of the semicircular arch.
But he should have known, that however eminent Mr. Simpson was in the higher parts of abstract
mathematical science, he was little versed in mixed and practical mechanicks. Mr. Muller, of
Woolwich Academy, the scholastick father of all the great engineers which this country has
employed for forty years, decided the question by declaring clearly in favour of the elliptical
arch.

It is ungraciously suggested, that Johnson's motive for opposing Mr. Mylne's scheme may have
been his prejudice against him as a native of North Britain; when, in truth, as has been stated,
he gave the aid of his able pen to a friend, who was one of the candidates; and so far was
he from having any illiberal antipathy to Mr. Mylne, that he afterwards lived with that gentleman
upon very agreeable terms of acquaintance, and dined with him at his house. Sir John Hawkins,
indeed, gives full vent to his own prejudice in abusing Blackfriars bridge, calling it 'an
edifice, in which beauty and symmetry are in vain sought for; by which the citizens of London
have perpetuated study their own disgrace, and subjected a whole nation to the reproach of
foreigners.' Whoever has contemplated, placido lumine [Horace, Odes, iv. 3, 2], this stately,
elegant, and airy structure, which has so fine an effect, especially on approaching the capital
on that quarter, must wonder at such unjust and ill-tempered censure; and I appeal to all foreigners
of good taste, whether this bridge be not one of the most distinguished ornaments of London.
As to the stability of the fabrick, it is certain that the City of London took every precaution
to have the best Portland stone for it; but as this is to be found in the quarries belonging
to the publick, under the direction of the Lords of the Treasury, it so happened that parliamentary
interest, which is often the bane of fair pursuits, thwarted their endeavours. Notwithstanding
this disadvantage, it is well known that not only has Blackfriars-bridge never sunk either
in its foundation or in its arches, which were so much the subject of contest, but any injuries
which it has suffered from the effects of severe frosts have been already, in some measure,
repaired with sounder stone, and every necessary renewal can be completed at a moderate expence.
BOSWELL. Horace Walpole mentions an ineffectual application made by the City to Parliament
in 1764 'for more money for their new bridge at Blackfriars,' when Dr. Hay, one of the Lords
of the Admiralty, 'abused the Common Council, whose late behaviour, he said, entitled them
to no favour.' Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign of George III, i. 390. The late behaviour was
the part taken by the City in Wilkes's case. It was the same love of liberty no doubt that
lost the City the Portland stone. Smollett goes out of the way to praise his brother-Scot,
Mr. Mylne, in Humphry Clinker--'a party novel written,' says Horace Walpole, 'to vindicate
the Scots' (Reign of George III, iv. 328). In the letter dated May 29, he makes Mr. Bramble
say:--'The Bridge at Blackfriars is a noble monument of taste and public spirit--I wonder how
they stumbled upon a work of such magnificence and utility.'

[1051] Juvenal, Sat. i. 85.

[1052] 'Born and educated in this country, I glory in the name of Briton.'--George III's first
speech to his parliament. It appears from the Hardwicke Papers, writes the editor of the Parl.
Hist. (xv. 982), that after the draft of the speech had been settled by the cabinet, these
words and those that came next were added by the King's own hand. Wilkes in his Dedication
of Mortimer (see post, May 15, 1776) asserted that 'these endearing words, "Born,&c.," were
permitted to be seen in the royal orthography of Britain for Briton,' Almon's Works, i. 84.

[1053] In this Introduction (Works, vi. 148) Johnson answers objections that had been raised
against the relief. 'We know that for the prisoners of war there is no legal provision; we
see their distress and are certain of its cause; we know that they are poor and naked, and
poor and naked without a crime.... The opponents of this charity must allow it to be good,
and will not easily prove it not to be the best. That charity is best of which the consequences
are most extensive; the relief of enemies has a tendency to unite mankind in fraternal affection.'
The Committee for which Johnson's paper was written began its work in Dec. 1759. In the previous
month of October Wesley records in his Journal (ii. 461):--'I walked up to Knowle, a mile from
Bristol, to see the French prisoners. Above eleven hundred of them, we were informed, were
confined in that little place, without anything to lie on but a little dirty straw, or anything
to cover them but a few foul thin rags, either by day or by night, so that they died like rotten
sheep. I was much affected, and preached in the evening on Exodus xxiii. 9.' Money was at once
contributed, and clothing bought. 'It was not long before contributions were set on foot in
various parts of the Kingdom.' On Oct. 24 of the following year, he records:--'I visited the
French prisoners at Knowle, and found many of them almost naked again.' Ib. iii. 23. 'The prisoners,'
wrote Hume (Private Corres. p. 55), 'received food from the public, but it was thought that
their own friends would supply them with clothes, which, however, was found after some time
to be neglected.' The cry arose that the brave and gallant men, though enemies, were perishing
with cold in prison; a subscription was set on foot; great sums were given by all ranks of
people; and, notwithstanding the national foolish prejudices against the French, a remarkable
zeal everywhere appeared for this charity. I am afraid that M. Rousseau could not have produced
many parallel instances among his heroes, the Greeks; and still fewer among the Romans. Baretti,
in his Journey from London to Genoa (i. 62, 66), after telling how on all foreigners, even
on a Turk wearing a turban, 'the pretty appellation of French dog was liberally bestowed by
the London rabble,' continues:--'I have seen the populace of England contribute as many shillings
as they could spare towards the maintenance of the French prisoners; and I have heard a universal
shout of joy when their parliament voted L100,000 to the Portuguese on hearing of the tremendous
earthquake.'

[1054] Johnson's Works, vi. 81. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 16, 1773, where Johnson describes
Mary as 'such a Queen as every man of any gallantry of spirit would have sacrificed his life
for.' 'There are,' wrote Hume, 'three events in our history which may be regarded as touchstones
of party-men. An English Whig who asserts the reality of the popish plot, an Irish Catholic
who denies the massacre in 1641, and a Scotch Jacobite who maintains the innocence of Queen
Mary, must be considered as men beyond the reach of argument or reason, and must be left to
their prejudices.' History of England, ed. 1802, v. 504.

[1055] Prayers and Meditations, p. 42. BOSWELL. The following is his entry on this day:--

'1760, Sept. 18. Resolved D[eo]j[uvante]' To combat notions of obligation. To apply to study.
To reclaim imagination. To consult the resolves on Tetty's coffin. To rise early. To study
religion. To go to church. To drink less strong liquors. To keep a journal. To oppose laziness,
by doing what is to be done tomorrow. Rise as early as I can. Send for books for Hist. of War.
Put books in order. Scheme of life.'

[1056] See post, Oct. 19, 1769, and May 15, 1783, for Johnson's measure of emotion, by eating.

[1057] Mr. Croker points out that Murphy's Epistle was an imitation of Boileau's Epitre a Moliere.

[1058] The paper mentioned in the text is No. 38 of the second series of the Grays Inn Journal,
published on June 15, 1754; which is a translation from the French version of Johnson's Rambler,
No. 190. MALONE. Mrs. Piozzi relates how Murphy, used to tell before Johnson of the first time
they met. He found our friend all covered with soot, like a chimney-sweeper, in a little room,
with an intolerable heat and strange smell, as if he had been acting Lungs in the Alchymist,
making aether. 'Come, come,' says Dr. Johnson, 'dear Murphy, the story is black enough now;
and it was a very happy day for me that brought you first to my house, and a very happy mistake
about the Ramblers.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 235. Murphy quotes her account, Murphy's Johnson, p.
79. See also post, 1770, where Dr. Maxwell records in his Collectanea how Johnson 'very much
loved Arthur Murphy.' Miss Burney thus describes him:--'He is tall and well-made, has a very
gentlemanlike appearance, and a quietness of manner upon his first address that to me is very
pleasing. His face looks sensible, and his deportment is perfectly easy and polite.' A few
days later she records:--'Mr. Murphy was the life of the party; he was in good spirits, and
extremely entertaining; he told a million of stories admirably well.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary,
i. 195, 210. Rogers, who knew Murphy well, says that 'towards the close of his life, till he
received a pension of L200 from the King, he was in great pecuniary difficulties. He had eaten
himself out of every tavern from the other side of Temple-Bar to the west end of the town.'
He owed Rogers a large sum of money, which he never repaid. 'He assigned over to me the whole
of his works; and I soon found that he had already disposed of them to a bookseller. One thing,'
Rogers continues, 'ought to be remembered to his honour; an actress with whom he had lived
bequeathed to him all her property, but he gave up every farthing of it to her relations.'
He was pensioned in 1803, and he died in 1805. Rogers's Table-Talk, p. 106.

[1059] Topham Beauclerk, Esq. BOSWELL.

[1060] Essays with that title, written about this time by Mr. Langton, but not published. BOSWELL.

[1061] Thomas Sheridan, born 1721, died 1788. He was the son of Swift's friend, and the father
of R. B. Sheridan (who was born in 1751), and the great-great-grandfather of the present Earl
of Dufferin.

[1062] Sheridan was acting in Garrick's Company, generally on the nights on which Garrick did
not appear. Davies's Garrick, i. 299. Johnson criticises his reading, post, April 18, 1783.

[1063] Mrs. Sheridan was authour of Memoirs of Miss Sydney Biddulph, a novel of great merit,
and of some other pieces.--See her character, post, beginning of 1763. BOSWELL.

[1064] Prayers and Meditations, p. 44. BOSWELL. '1761. Easter Eve. Since the communion of last
Easter I have led a life so dissipated and useless, and my terrours and perplexities have so
much increased, that I am under great depression and discouragement.'

[1065] See post, April 6, 1775.

[1066] I have had inquiry made in Ireland as to this story, but do not find it recollected
there. I give it on the authority of Dr. Johnson, to which may be added that of the biographical
Dictionary, and Biographia Dramatica; in both of which it has stood many years. Mr. Malone
observes, that the truth probably is, not that an edition was published with Rolt's name in
the title-page, but, that the poem being then anonymous, Rolt acquiesced in its being attributed
to him in conversation. BOSWELL.

[1067] I have both the books. Innes was the clergyman who brought Psalmanazar to England, and
was an accomplice in his extraordinary fiction. BOSWELL. It was in 1728 that Innes, who was
a Doctor of Divinity and Preacher-Assistant at St. Margaret's Westminster, published this book.
In his impudent Dedication to Lord Chancellor King he says that 'were matters once brought
to the melancholy pass that mankind should become proselytes to such impious delusions' as
Mandeville taught, 'punishments must be annexed to virtue and rewards to vice.' It was not
till 1730 that Dr. Campbell 'laid open this imposture.' Preface, p. xxxi. Though he was Professor
of Ecclesiastical History in St. Andrews, yet he had not, it should seem, heard of the fraud
till then: so remote was Scotland from London in those days. It was not till 1733 that he published
his own edition. For Psalmanazar, see post, April 18, 1778.

[1068] 'Died, the Rev. Mr. Eccles, at Bath. In attempting to save a boy, whom he saw sinking
in the Avon, he, together with the youth, were both drowned.' Gent. Mag. Aug. 15, 1777. And
in the magazine for the next month are some verses on this event, with an epitaph, of which
the first line is,

'Beneath this stone the "Man of
      Feeling" lies.'

CROKER.

[1069] 'Harry Mackenzie,' wrote Scott in 1814, 'never put his name in a title page till the
last edition of his works.' Lockhart's Scott, iv. 178. He wrote also The Man of the World,
which Johnson 'looked at, but thought there was nothing in it.' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 2,
1773. Scott, however, called it 'a very pathetic tale.' Croker's Boswell, p. 359. Burns, writing
of his twenty-third year, says: 'Tristram Shandy and the Man of Feeling were my bosom favourites.'
Currie's Life of Burns, ed.1846. p. 21.

[1070] From the Prologue to Dryden's adaptation of The Tempest.

[1071] The originals of Dr. Johnson's three letters to Mr. baretti, which are among the very
best he ever wrote, were communicated to the elegant monthly miscellany, The European Magazine,
in which they first appeared. BOSWELL.

[1072] Baretti left London for Lisbon on Aug. 14, 1760. He went through Portugal, Spain, and
France to Antibes, whence he went by sea to Genoa, where he arrived on Nov. 18. In 1770 he
published a lively account of his travels under the title of A Journey from London to Genoa.

[1073] Malone says of Baretti that 'he was certainly a man of extraordinary talents, and perhaps
no one ever made himself so completely master of a foreign language as he did of English.'
Prior's Malone, p. 392. Mrs. Piozzi gives the following 'instance of his skill in our low street
language. Walking in a field near Chelsea he met a fellow, who, suspecting him from dress and
manner to be a foreigner, said sneeringly, "Come, Sir, will you show me the way to France?"
"No, Sir," says Baretti instantly, "but I will show you the way to Tyburn."' He travelled with
her in France. 'Oh how he would court the maids at the inns abroad, abuse the men perhaps,
and that with a facility not to be exceeded, as they all confessed, by any of the natives.
But so he could in Spain, I find.' Hayward's Piozzi, ii. 347.

[1074] Johnson was intimate with Lord Southwell, ante, p. 243. It seems unlikely that Baretti
merely conducted Mr. Southwell from Turin to Venice; yet there is not a line in his Journey
to show that any Englishman accompanied him from London to Turin.

[1075] See ante, p. 350, note.

[1076] The first of these annual exhibitions was opened on April 21, 1760, at the Room of the
Society of Arts, in the Strand. 'As a consequence of their success, grew the incorporation
of a Society of Artists in 1765, by seccession from which finally was constituted the Royal
Academy [In Dec. 1768].' Taylor's Reynolds, i. 179. For the third exhibition Johnson wrote
the Preface to the catalogue. In this, speaking for the Committee of the Artists he says:--'The
purpose of this Exhibition is not to enrich the artist, but to advance the art; the eminent
are not flattered with preference, nor the obscure insulted with contempt; whoever hopes to
deserve public favour is here invited to display his merit.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 101.

[1077] Hawkins (Life, p. 318) says that Johnson told him 'that in his whole life he was never
capable of discerning the least resemblance of any kind between a picture and the subject it
was intended to represent.' This, however must have been an exaggeration on the part either
of Hawkins or Johnson. His general ignorance of art is shown by Mrs. Piozzi (Anec., p. 98):--'Sir
Joshua Reynolds mentioned some picture as excellent. "It has often grieved me, sir," said Mr.
Johnson, "to see so much mind as the science of painting requires, laid out upon such perishable
materials: why do not you oftener make use of copper? I could wish your superiority in the
art you profess to be preserved in stuff more durable than canvas." Sir Joshua urged the difficulty
of procuring a plate large enough for historical subjects. "What foppish obstacles are these!"
exclaims on a sudden Dr. Johnson. "Here is Thrale has a thousand tun of copper; you may paint
it all round if you will, I suppose; it will serve him to brew in afterwards. Will it not,
Sir?" to my husband who sat by. Indeed his utter scorn of painting was such, that I have heard
him say, that he should sit very quietly in a room hung round with the works of the greatest
masters, and never feel the slightest disposition to turn them, if their backs were outermost,
unless it might be for the sake of telling Sir Joshua that he had turned them.' Such a remark
of Johnson's must not, however, be taken too strictly. He often spoke at random, often with
exaggeration. 'There is in many minds a kind of vanity exerted to the disadvantage of themselves.'
This reflection of his is the opening sentence to the number of the Idler (No. 45) in which
he thus writes about portrait-painting:--'Genius is chiefly exerted in historical pictures;
and the art of the painter of portraits is often lost in the obscurity of his subject. But
it is in painting as in life; what is greatest is not always best. I should grieve to see Reynolds
transfer to heroes and to goddesses, to empty splendour and to airy fiction, that art which
is now employed in diffusing friendship, in reviving tenderness, in quickening the affections
of the absent, and continuing the presence of the dead.' It is recorded in Johnson's Works,
(1787) xi. 208, that 'Johnson, talking with some persons about allegorical painting said, "I
had rather see the portrait of a dog that I know than all the allegorical paintings they can
show me in the world."' He bought prints of Burke, Dyer, and Goldsmith--'Good impressions'
he said to hang in a little room that he was fitting up with prints. Croker's Boswell, p. 639.
Among his effects that were sold after his death were 'sixty-one portraits framed and glazed,'
post, under Dec. 9, 1784. When he was at Paris, and saw the picture-gallery at the Palais Royal,
he entered in his Diary:--'I thought the pictures of Raphael fine;' post, Oct. 16, 1775. The
philosopher Hume was more insensible even than Johnson. Dr. J.H. Burton says:--'It does not
appear from any incident in his life, or allusions in his letters, which I can remember, that
he had ever really admired a picture or a statue.' Life of me, ii. 134.

[1078] By Colman--'There is nothing else new,' wrote Horace Walpole on March 7, 1761 (Letters,
in. 382), 'but a very indifferent play, called The Jealous Wife, so well acted as to have succeeded
greatly.'

[1079] In Chap. 47 of Rasselas Johnson had lately considered monastic life. Imlac says of the
monks:--'Their time is regularly distributed; one duty succeeds another, so that they are not
left open to the distraction of unguided choice, nor lost in the shades of listless inactivity....
He that lives well in the world is better than he that lives well in a monastery. But perhaps
every one is not able to stem the temptations of publick life; and, if he cannot conquer, he
may properly retreat.' See also post, March 15, 1776, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19, 1773.

[1080] Baretti, in the preface to his Journey (p. vi.), says that the method of the book was
due to Dr. Johnson. 'It was he that exhorted me to write daily, and with all possible minuteness;
it was he that pointed out the topics which would most interest and most delight in a future
publication.'

[1081] He advised Boswell to go to Spain. Post, June 25 and July 26, 1763.

[1082] Dr. Percy records that 'the first visit Goldsmith ever received from Johnson was on
May 31, 1761, [ten days before this letter was written] when he gave an invitation to him,
and much other company, many of them literary men, to a supper in his lodgings in Wine Office
Court, Fleet Street. Percy being intimate with Johnson, was desired to call upon him and take
him with him. As they went together the former was much struck with the studied neatness of
Johnson's dress. He had on a new suit of clothes, a new wig nicely powdered, and everything
about him so perfectly dissimilar from his usual appearance that his companion could not help
inquiring the cause of this singular transformation. "Why, Sir," said Johnson, "I hear that
Goldsmith, who is a very great sloven, justifies his disregard of cleanliness and decency by
quoting my practice, and I am desirous this night to show him a better example."' Goldsmith's
Misc. Works, i. 62.

[1083] Judges, v. 20.

[1084] Psalms, xix. 2.

[1085] Psalms, civ. 19.

[1086] Boswell is ten years out in his date. This work was published in 1752. The review of
it in the Gent. Mag. for that year, p. 146, was, I believe, by Johnson.

[1087] He accompanied Lord Macartney on his embassy to China in 1792. In 1797 he published
his Account of the Embassy.

[1088] It was taken in 1759, and restored to France in 1763. Penny Cyclo. xi. 463.

[1089] W. S. Landor (Works, ed. 1876, v. 99) says:--'Extraordinary as were Johnson's intellectual
powers, he knew about as much of poetry as of geography. In one of his letters he talks of
Guadaloupe as being in another hemisphere. Speaking of that island, his very words are these:
"Whether you return hither or stay in another hemisphere."' Guadaloupe, being in the West Indies,
is in another hemisphere.

[1090] See post, April 12, 1776.

[1091] 'It is necessary to hope, though hope should always be deluded; for hope itself is happiness,
and its frustrations, however frequent, are less dreadful than its extinction.' The Idler,
No. 58. See also post, under March 30, 1783, where he ranks the situation of the Prince of
Wales as the happiest in the kingdom, partly on account of the enjoyment of hope.

[1092] Though Johnson wrote this same day to Lord Bute to thank him for his pension, he makes
no mention to Baretti of this accession to his fortune.

[1093] See ante, p. 245. Mrs. Porter, the actress, lived some time with Mrs. Cotterel and her
eldest daughter. CROKER.

[1094] Miss Charlotte Cotterel, married to Dean Lewis. See post, Dec. 21, 1762.

[1095] Reynolds's note-book shows that this year he had close on 150 sitters. Taylor's Reynolds,
i. 218.

[1096] He married a woman of the town, who had persuaded him (notwithstanding their place of
congress was a small coalshed in Fetter Lane) that she was nearly related to a man of fortune,
but was injuriously kept by him out of large possessions. She regarded him as a physician already
in considerable practice. He had not been married four months, before a writ was taken out
against him for debts incurred by his wife. He was secreted; and his friend then procured him
a protection from a foreign minister. In a short time afterwards she ran away from him, and
was tried (providentially in his opinion) for picking pockets at the Old Bailey. Her husband
was with difficulty prevented from attending the Court, in the hope she would be hanged. She
pleaded her own cause and was acquitted. A separation between them took place.' Gent. Mag. lv. 101.

[1097] Richardson had died more than a year earlier,--on July 4, 1761. That Johnson should
think it needful at the date of his letter to inform Baretti of the death of so famous a writer
shows how slight was the communication between London and Milan. Nay, he repeats the news in
his letter of Dec. 21, 1762.

[1098] On Dec. 8, 1765, he wrote to Hector:--'A few years ago I just saluted Birmingham, but
had no time to see any friend, for I came in after midnight with a friend, and went away in
the morning.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. iii. 321. He passed through Birmingham, I conjecture,
on his visit to Lichfield.

[1099] Writing to Mrs. Thrale from Lichfield on July 20, 1767, he says:--'Miss Lucy [Porter,
his step-daughter, not his daughter-in-law, as he calls her above] is more kind and civil than
I expected, and has raised my esteem by many excellencies very noble and resplendent, though
a little discoloured by hoary virginity. Everything else recalls to my remembrance years, in
which I proposed what I am afraid I have not done, and promised myself pleasure which I have
not found.' Piozzi Letters, i. 4.

[1100] In his Journey into Wales (Aug. 24, 1774), he describes how Mrs. Thrale visited one
of the scenes of her youth. 'She remembered the rooms, and wandered over them with recollection
of her childhood. This species of pleasure is always melancholy. The walk was cut down and
the pond was dry. Nothing was better.'

[1101] This is a very just account of the relief which London affords to melancholy minds. BOSWELL.

[1102] To Devonshire.

[1103] See ante, p. 322.

[1104] Dr. T. Campbell (Diary of a visit to England, p. 32) recorded on March 16, 1775, that
'Baretti said that now he could not live out of London. He had returned a few years ago to
his own country, but he could not enjoy it; and he was obliged to return to London to those
connections he had been making for near thirty years past.' Baretti had come to England in
1750 (ante, p. 302), so that thirty years is an exaggeration.

[1105] How great a sum this must have been in Johnson's eyes is shown by a passage in his Life
of Savage (Works, viii. 125). Savage, he says, was received into Lord Tyrconnel's family and
allowed a pension of L200 a year. 'His presence,' Johnson writes, 'was sufficient to make any
place of publick entertainment popular; and his approbation and example constituted the fashion.
David Hume writing in 1751, says:--'I have L50 a year, a L100 worth of books, great store of
linens and fine clothes, and near L100 in my pocket; along with order, frugality, a strong
spirit of independency, good health, a contented humour, and an unabating love of study. In
these circumstances I must esteem myself one of the happy and fortunate.' J. H. Burton's Hume,
i. 342. Goldsmith, in his Present State of Polite Learning (chap, vii), makes the following
observation on pensions granted in France to authors:--'The French nobility have certainly
a most pleasing way of satisfying the vanity of an author without indulging his avarice. A
man of literary merit is sure of being caressed by the great, though seldom enriched. His pension
from the crown just supplies half a competence, and the sale of his labours makes some small
addition to his circumstances; thus the author leads a life of splendid poverty, and seldom
becomes wealthy or indolent enough to discontinue an exertion of those abilities by which he
rose.' Whether Johnson's pension led to his writing less than he would otherwise have done
may be questioned. It is true that in the next seventeen years he did little more than finish
his edition of Shakespeare, and write his Journey to the Western Islands and two or three political
pamphlets. But since he wrote the last number of The Idler in the spring of 1760 he had done
very little. His mind, which, to use Murphy's words (Life, p. 80), had been 'strained and overlaboured
by constant exertion,' had not recovered its tone. It is likely, that without the pension he
would not have lived to write the second greatest of his works--the Lives of the Poets.

[1106] Mr. Forster (Life of Goldsmith, i. 281) says:--'Bute's pensions to his Scottish crew
showing meaner than ever in Churchill's daring verse, it occurred to the shrewd and wary Wedderburne
to advise, for a set off, that Samuel Johnson should be pensioned.' The Prophecy of Famine
in which Churchill's attack was made on the pensioned Scots was published in Jan. 1763, nearly
half a year after Johnson's pension was conferred.

[1107] For his Falkland's Islands 'materials were furnished to him by the ministry' (post,
1771). 'The Patriot was called for,' he writes, 'by my political friends' (post, Nov. 26, 1774).
'That Taxation no Tyranny was written at the desire of those who were then in power, I have
no doubt,' writes Boswell (post, under March 21, 1775). Are these statements inconsistent with
what Lord Loughborough said, and with Boswell's assertion (Ib.) that 'Johnson neither asked
nor received from government any reward whatsoever for his political labours?' I think not.
I think that, had Johnson unpensioned been asked by the Ministry to write these pamphlets,
he would have written them. He would have been pleased by the compliment, and for pay would
have trusted to the sale. Speaking of the first two of these pamphlets--the third had not yet
appeared--he said, 'Except what I had from the booksellers, I did not get a farthing by them'
(post, March 21, 1772). They had not cost him much labour. The False Alarm was written between
eight o'clock of one night and twelve o'clock of the next. It went through three editions in
less than two months (post, 1770). The Patriot was written on a Saturday (post, Nov. 26, 1774).
At all events Johnson had received his pension for more than seven years before he did any
work for the ministry. In Croft's Life of Young, which Johnson adopted (Works, viii. 422),
the following passage was perhaps intended to be a defence of Johnson as a writer for the Ministry:--'Yet
who shall say with certainty that Young was a pensioner? In all modern periods of this country,
have not the writers on one side been regularly called hirelings, and on the other patriots?'

[1108] See ante, p. 294.

[1109] Murphy's account is nearly as follows (Life, p. 92):--'Lord Loughborough was well acquainted
with Johnson; but having heard much of his independent spirit, and of the downfall of Osborne
the bookseller (ante, p. 154), he did not know but his benevolence might be rewarded with a
folio on his head. He desired me to undertake the task. I went to the chambers in the Inner
Temple Lane, which, in fact, were the abode of wretchedness. By slow and studied approaches
the message was disclosed. Johnson made a long pause; he asked if it was seriously intended.
He fell into a profound meditation, and his own definition of a pensioner occurred to him.
He desired to meet next day, and dine at the Mitre Tavern. At that meeting he gave up all his
scruples. On the following day Lord Loughborough conducted him to the Earl of Bute. The conversation
that passed was in the evening related to me by Dr. Johnson. He expressed his sense of his
Majesty's bounty, and thought himself the more highly honoured, as the favour was not bestowed
on him for having dipped his pen in faction. "No, Sir," said Lord Bute, "it is not offered
to you for having dipped your pen in faction, nor with a design that you ever should."' The
reviewer of Hawkins's Johnson in the Monthly Review, lxxvi. 375, who was, no doubt, Murphy,
adds a little circumstance:--'On the next day Mr. Murphy was in the Temple Lane soon after
nine; he got Johnson up and dressed in due time; and saw him set off at eleven.' Malone's note
on what Lord Bute said to Johnson is as follows:--'This was said by Lord Bute, as Dr. Burney
was informed by Johnson himself, in answer to a question which he put, previously to his acceptance
of the intended bounty: "Pray, my Lord, what am I expected to do for this pension?"'

[1110]

'In Britain's senate he a seat obtains And one more pensioner St. Stephen gains.'

Moral Essays, iii. 392.

Johnson left the definition of pension and pensioner unchanged in the fourth edition of the
Dictionary, corrected by him in 1773.

[1111] He died on March 10, 1792. This paragraph and the letter are not in the first two editions.

[1112] The Treasury, Home Office, Exchequer of Receipt and Audit Office Records have been searched
for a warrant granting a pension to Dr. Johnson without success. In 1782, by Act of Parliament
all pensions on the Civil List Establishment were from that time to be paid at the Exchequer.
In the Exchequer Order Book, Michaelmas 1782, No. 46, p. 74, the following memorandum occurs:--"Memdum.
3 Dec. 1782. There was issued to the following persons (By order 6th of Nov. 1782) the sums
set against their names respectively, etc.:--Persons names: Johnson Saml, LL.D. Pensions p.
ann. L300. Due to 5 July 1782, two quarters, L150."

This pension was paid at the Exchequer from that time to the quarter ending 10 Oct. 1784. 'It
is clear that the pension was payable quarterly [for confirmation of this, see post, Nov. 3,
1762, and July 16, 1765] and at the old quarter days, July 5, Oct. 10, Jan. 5, April 5, though
payment was sometimes delayed. [Once he was paid half-yearly; see post, under March 20, 1771.]
The expression "bills" was a general term at the time for notes, cheques, and warrants, and
no doubt covered some kind of Treasury warrant.' The above information I owe to the kindness
of my friend Mr. Leonard H. Courtney, M.P., late Financial Secretary to the Treasury. The 'future
favours' are the future payments. His pension was not for life, and depended therefore entirely
on the king's pleasure (see post, under March 21, 1775). The following letter in the Grenville
Papers, ii. 68, seems to show that Johnson thought the pension due on the new quarter-day:--

'DR. JOHNSON To MR. GRENVILLE.

'July 2, 1763.

'SIR,

'Be pleased to pay to the bearer seventy-five pounds, being the quarterly payment of a pension
granted by his Majesty, and due on the 24th day of June last, to Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

[1113] They left London on Aug. 16 and returned to it on Sept. 26. Taylor's Reynolds, i. 214.
Northcote records of this visit:--'I remember when Mr. Reynolds was pointed out to me at a
public meeting, where a great crowd was assembled, I got as near to him as I could from the
pressure of the people to touch the skirt of his coat, which I did with great satisfaction
to my mind.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 116. In like manner Reynolds, when a youth, had in a
great crowd touched the hand of Pope. Ib, p. 19. Pope, when a boy of eleven, 'persuaded some
friends to take him to the coffee-house which Dryden frequented.' Johnson's Works, viii. 236.
Who touched old Northcote's hand? Has the apostolic succession been continued?--Since writing
these lines I have read with pleasure the following passage in Mr. Ruskin's Praeterita, chapter
i. p. 16:--'When at three-and-a-half I was taken to have my portrait painted by Mr. Northcote,
I had not been ten minutes alone with him before I asked him why there were holes in his carpet.'
Dryden, Pope, Reynolds, Northcote, Ruskin, so runs the chain of genius, with only one weak
link in it.

[1114] At one of these seats Dr. Amyat, Physician in London, told me he happened to meet him.
In order to amuse him till dinner should be ready, he was taken out to walk in the garden.
The master of the house, thinking it proper to introduce something scientifick into the conversation,
addressed him thus: 'Are you a botanist, Dr. Johnson:' 'No, Sir, (answered Johnson,) I am not
a botanist; and, (alluding no doubt, to his near sightedness) should I wish to become a botanist,
I must first turn myself into a reptile.' BOSWELL.

[1115] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. 285) says:--'The roughness of the language used on board a man of
war, where he passed a week on a visit to Captain Knight, disgusted him terribly. He asked
an officer what some place was called, and received for answer that it was where the loplolly
man kept his loplolly; a reply he considered as disrespectful, gross and ignorant.' Mr. Croker
says that Captain Knight of the Belleisle lay for a couple of months in 1762 in Plymouth Sound.
Croker's Boswell, p. 480. It seems unlikely that Johnson passed a whole week on ship-board.
Loplolly, or Loblolly, is explained in Roderick Random, chap. xxvii. Roderick, when acting
as the surgeon's assistant on a man of war, 'suffered,' he says, 'from the rude insults of
the sailors and petty officers, among whom I was known by the name of Lobolly Boy.'

[1116] He was the father of Colonel William Mudge, distinguished by his trigonometrical survey
of England and Wales. WRIGHT.

[1117] 'I have myself heard Reynolds declare, that the elder Mr. Mudge was, in his opinion,
the wisest man he had ever met with in his life. He has always told me that he owed his first
disposition to generalise, and to view things in the abstract, to him.' Northcote's Reynolds,
i. 112, 115.

[1118] See post, under March 20, 1781.

[1119] See ante, p. 293. BOSWELL.

[1120] The present Devonport.

[1121] A friend of mine once heard him, during this visit, exclaim with the utmost vehemence
'I hate a Docker.' BLAKEWAY. Northcote (Life of Reynolds, i. 118) says that Reynolds took Johnson
to dine at a house where 'he devoured so large a quantity of new honey and of clouted cream,
besides drinking large potations of new cyder, that the entertainer found himself much embarrassed
between his anxious regard for the Doctor's health and his fear of breaking through the rules
of politeness, by giving him a hint on the subject. The strength of Johnson's constitution,
however, saved him from any unpleasant consequences.' 'Sir Joshua informed a friend that he
had never seen Dr. Johnson intoxicated by hard drinking but once, and that happened at the
time that they were together in Devonshire, when one night after supper Johnson drank three
bottles of wine, which affected his speech so much that he was unable to articulate a hard
word, which occurred in the course of his conversation. He attempted it three times but failed;
yet at last accomplished it, and then said, "Well, Sir Joshua, I think it is now time to go
to bed."' Ib. ii. 161. One part of this story however is wanting in accuracy, and therefore
all may be untrue. Reynolds at this time was not knighted.

[1122] George Selwyn wrote:--'Topham Beauclerk is arrived. I hear he lost L10,000 to a thief
at Venice, which thief, in the course of the year, will be at Cashiobury.' (The reference to
this quotation I have mislaid.)

[1123] Two years later he repeated this thought in the lines that he added to Goldsmith's Traveller.
Post, under Feb. 1766.

[1125] The preliminaries of peace between England and France had been signed on Nov. 3 of this
year. Ann Reg. v. 246.

[1126] Of Baretti's Travels through Spain, &c., Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'That Baretti's
book would please you all I made no doubt. I know not whether the world has ever seen such
Travels before. Those whose lot it is to ramble can seldom write, and those who know how to
write very seldom ramble.' Piozzi Letters, i. 32.

[1127] See ante, p. 370.

[1128] See ante, p. 242, note 1.

[1129] Huggins had quarrelled with Johnson and Baretti (Croker's Boswell, 129, note). See also
post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[1130] See ante, p. 370.

[1131] Cowper, writing in 1784 about Collins, says:--'Of whom I did not know that he existed
till I found him there'--in the Lives of the Poets, that is to say. Southey's Cowper, v. II.

[1132] To this passage Johnson, nearly twenty years later, added the following (Works, viii.
403):--'Such was the fate of Collins, with whom I once delighted to converse, and whom I yet
remember with tenderness.'

[1133] 'MADAM. To approach the high and the illustrious has been in all ages the privilege
of Poets; and though translators cannot justly claim the same honour, yet they naturally follow
their authours as attendants; and I hope that in return for having enabled TASSO to diffuse
his fame through the British dominions, I may be introduced by him to the presence of YOUR MAJESTY.

TASSO has a peculiar claim to YOUR MAJESTY'S favour, as follower and panegyrist of the House
of Este, which has one common ancestor with the House of HANOVER; and in reviewing his life
it is not easy to forbear a wish that he had lived in a happier time, when he might, among
the descendants of that illustrious family, have found a more liberal and potent patronage.

I cannot but observe, MADAM, how unequally reward is proportioned to merit, when I reflect
that the happiness which was withheld from TASSO is reserved for me; and that the poem which
once hardly procured to its authour the countenance of the Princess of Ferrara, has attracted
to its translator the favourable notice of a BRITISH QUEEN.

Had this been the fate of TASSO, he would have been able to have celebrated the condescension
of YOUR MAJESTY in nobler language, but could not have felt it with more ardent gratitude,
than MADAM, Your MAJESTY'S Most faithful and devoted servant.'--BOSWELL.

[1134] Young though Boswell was, he had already tried his hand at more than one kind of writing.
In 1761 he had published anonymously an Elegy on the Death of an Amiable Young Lady, with an
Epistle from Menalcas to Lycidas. (Edinburgh, Donaldson.) The Elegy is full of such errors
as 'Thou liv'd,' 'Thou led,' but is recommended by a puffing preface and three letters--one
of which is signed J--B. About the same time he brought out a piece that was even more impudent.
It was An Ode to Tragedy. By a gentleman of Scotland. (Edinburgh, Donaldson, 1761. Price sixpence.)
In the 'Dedication to James Boswell, Esq.,' he says:--'I have no intention to pay you compliments--To
entertain agreeable notions of one's own character is a great incentive to act with propriety
and spirit. But I should be sorry to contribute in any degree to your acquiring an excess of
self-sufficiency ... I own indeed that when ... to display my extensive erudition, I have quoted
Greek, Latin and French sentences one after another with astonishing celerity; or have got
into my Old-hock humour and fallen a-raving about princes and lords, knights and geniuses,
ladies of quality and harpsichords; you, with a peculiar comic smile, have gently reminded
me of the importance of a man to himself, and slily left the room with the witty Dean lying
open at--P.P. clerk of this parish. [Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xxiii. 142.] I, Sir, who enjoy
the pleasure of your intimate acquaintance, know that many of your hours of retirement are
devoted to thought.' The Ode is serious. He describes himself as having

'A soul by nature formed to feel Grief sharper than the tyrant's steel, And bosom big with
swelling thought From ancient lore's remembrance brought.'

In the winter of 1761-2 he had helped as a contributor and part-editor in bringing out a Collection
of Original Poems. (Boswell and Erskine's Letters, p. 27.) His next publication, also anonymous,
was The Club at Newmarket, written, as the Preface says, 'in the Newmarket Coffee Room, in
which the author, being elected a member of the Jockey Club, had the happiness of passing several
sprightly good-humoured evenings.' It is very poor stuff. In the winter of 1762-3 he joined
in writing the Critical Strictures, mentioned post, June 25, 1763. Just about the time that
he first met Johnson he and his friend the Hon. Andrew Erskine had published in their own names
a very impudent little volume of the correspondence that had passed between them. Of this I
published an edition with notes in 1879, together with Boswell's Journal of a Tour to Corsica.
(Messrs. Thos. De La Rue & Co.).

[1135] Boswell, in 1768, in the preface to the third edition of his Corsica described 'the
warmth of affection and the dignity of veneration' with which he never ceased to think of Mr.
Johnson.

[1136] In the Garrick Carres, (ii. 83) there is a confused letter from this unfortunate man,
asking Garrick for the loan of five guineas. He had a scheme for delivering dramatic lectures
at Eton and Oxford; 'but,' he added, 'my externals have so unfavourable an appearance that
I cannot produce myself with any comfort or hope of success.' Garrick sent him five guineas.
He had been a Major in the army, an actor, and dramatic author. 'For the last seven years of
his life he struggled under sickness and want to a degree of uncommon misery.' Gent. Mag. for
1784, p. 959.

[1137] As great men of antiquity such as Scipio Africanus had an epithet added to their names,
in consequence of some celebrated action, so my illustrious friend was often called DICTIONARY
JOHNSON, from that wonderful atchievement of genius and labour, his Dictionary of the English
Language; the merit of which I contemplate with more and more admiration. BOSWELL. In like
manner we have 'Hermes Harris,' 'Pliny Melmoth,' 'Demosthenes Taylor,' 'Persian Jones,' 'Abyssinian
Bruce,' 'Microscope Baker,' 'Leonidas Glover,' 'Hesiod Cooke,' and 'Corsica Boswell.'

[1138] See ante, p. 124. He introduced Boswell to Davies, who was 'the immediate introducer.'
Post, under June 18, 1783, note.

[1139] On March 2, 1754 (not 1753), the audience called for a repetition of some lines which
they applied against the government. 'Diggs, the actor, refused by order of Sheridan, the manager,
to repeat them; Sheridan would not even appear on the stage to justify the prohibition. In
an instant the audience demolished the inside of the house, and reduced it to a shell.' Walpole's
Reign of George II, i. 389, and Gent. Mag. xxiv. 141. Sheridan's friend, Mr. S. Whyte, says
(Miscellanea Nova, p. 16):--'In the year 1762 Sheridan's scheme for an English Dictionary was
published. That memorable year he was nominated for a pension.' He quotes (p. 111) a letter
from Mrs. Sheridan, dated Nov. 29, 1762, in which she says:--'I suppose you must have heard
that the King has granted him a pension of 200L. a year, merely as an encouragement to his
undertaking.'

[1140] See post, March 28, 1776.

[1141] Horace Walpole describes Lord Bute as 'a man that had passed his life in solitude, and
was too haughty to admit to his familiarity but half a dozen silly authors and flatterers.
Sir Henry Erskine, a military poet, Home, a tragedy-writing parson,' &c. Mem. of the Reign
of George III, i. 37.

[1142] See post, March 28, 1776.

[1143] 'Native wood-notes wild.' Milton's L'Allegro, l. 134

[1144]

'In nova fert animus mutatas dicere formas Corpora. Di coeptis (nam vos mutastis et illas)
Adspirate meis.' 'Of bodies changed to various forms I sing:-- Ye Gods from whence these miracles
did spring Inspired, &c.'--DRYDEN, Ov. Met. i.i.

See post under March 30, 1783, for Lord Loughborough.

[1145] See post, May 17, 1783, and June 24, 1784. Sheridan was not of a forgiving nature. For
some years he would not speak to his famous son: yet he went with his daughters to the theatre
to see one of his pieces performed. 'The son took up his station by one of the side scenes,
opposite to the box where they sat, and there continued, unobserved, to look at them during
the greater part of the night. On his return home he burst into tears, and owned how deeply
it had gone to his heart, "to think that there sat his father and his sisters before him, and
yet that he alone was not permitted to go near them."' Moore's Sheridan, i. 167.

[1146] As Johnson himself said:--'Men hate more steadily than they love; and if I have said
something to hurt a man once, I shall not get the better of this by saying many things to please
him.' Post, Sept. 15, 1777.

[1147] P. 447. BOSWELL. 'There is another writer, at present of gigantic fame in these days
of little men, who has pretended to scratch out a life of Swift, but so miserably executed
as only to reflect back on himself that disgrace which he meant to throw upon the character
of the Dean.' The Life of Doctor Swift, Swift's Works, ed. 1803, ii. 200. There is a passage
in the Lives of the Poets (Works, viii. 43) in which Johnson might be supposed playfully to
have anticipated this attack. He is giving an account of Blackmore's imaginary Literary Club
of Lay Monks, of which the hero was 'one Mr. Johnson.' 'The rest of the Lay Monks,' he writes,
'seem to be but feeble mortals, in comparison with the gigantick Johnson.' See also post, Oct.
16, 1769. Horace Walpole (Letters, v. 458) spoke no less scornfully than Sheridan of Johnson
and his contemporaries. On April 27, 1773, after saying that he should like to be intimate
with Anstey (the author of the New Bath Guide), or with the author of the Heroic Epistle, he
continues:--'I have no thirst to know the rest of my contemporaries, from the absurd bombast
of Dr. Johnson down to the silly Dr. Goldsmith; though the latter changeling has had bright
gleams of parts, and the former had sense, till he changed it for words, and sold it for a
pension. Don't think me scornful. Recollect that I have seen Pope and lived with Gray.'

[1148] Johnson is thus mentioned by Mrs. Sheridan in a letter dated, Blois, Nov. 16, 1743,
according to the Garrick Corres, i. 17, but the date is wrongly given, as the Sheridans went
to Blois in 1764: 'I have heard Johnson decry some of the prettiest pieces of writing we have
in English; yet Johnson is an honourable man--that is to say, he is a good critic, and in other
respects a man of enormous talents.'

[1149] My position has been very well illustrated by Mr. Belsham of Bedford, in his Essay on
Dramatic Poetry. 'The fashionable doctrine (says he) both of moralists and criticks in these
times is, that virtue and happiness are constant concomitants; and it is regarded as a kind
of dramatick impiety to maintain that virtue should not be rewarded, nor vice punished in the
last scene of the last act of every tragedy. This conduct in our modern poets is, however,
in my opinion, extremely injudicious; for, it labours in vain to inculcate a doctrine in theory,
which every one knows to be false in fact, viz. that virtue in real life is always productive
of happiness; and vice of misery. Thus Congreve concludes the Tragedy of The Mourning Bride
with the following foolish couplet:--

'For blessings ever wait on virtuous deeds, And though a late, a sure reward succeeds.'

'When a man eminently virtuous, a Brutus, a Cato, or a Socrates, finally sink under the pressure
of accumulated misfortune, we are not only led to entertain a more indignant hatred of vice
than if he rose from his distress, but we are inevitably induced to cherish the sublime idea
that a day of future retribution will arrive when he shall receive not merely poetical, but
real and substantial justice.' Essays Philosophical, Historical, and Literary, London, 1791,
vol. II. 8vo. p. 317.

This is well reasoned and well expressed. I wish, indeed, that the ingenious authour had not
thought it necessary to introduce any instance of 'a man eminently virtuous;' as he would then
have avoided mentioning such a ruffian as Brutus under that description. Mr. Belsham discovers
in his Essays so much reading and thinking, and good composition, that I regret his not having
been fortunate enough to be educated a member of our excellent national establishment. Had
he not been nursed in nonconformity, he probably would not have been tainted with those heresies
(as I sincerely, and on no slight investigation, think them) both in religion and politicks,
which, while I read, I am sure, with candour, I cannot read without offence. BOSWELL. Boswell's
'position has been illustrated' with far greater force by Johnson. 'It has been the boast of
some swelling moralists, that every man's fortune was in his own power, that prudence supplied
the place of all other divinities, and that happiness is the unfailing consequence of virtue.
But surely the quiver of Omnipotence is stored with arrows against which the shield of human
virtue, however adamantine it has been boasted, is held up in vain; we do not always suffer
by our crimes; we are not always protected by our innocence.' The Adventurer, No. 120. See
also Rasselas, chap. 27.

[1150] 'Charles Fox said that Mrs. Sheridan's Sydney Biddulph was the best of all modern novels.
By the by [R. B.] Sheridan used to declare that he had never read it.' Rogers's Table-Talk,
p. 90. The editor says, in a note on this passage:--'The incident in The School for Scandal
of Sir Oliver's presenting himself to his relations in disguise is manifestly taken by Sheridan
from his mother's novel.'

[1151] No. 8.--The very place where I was fortunate enough to be introduced to the illustrious
subject of this work, deserves to be particularly marked. I never pass by it without feeling
reverence and regret. BOSWELL.

[1152] Johnson said:--'Sir, Davies has learning enough to give credit to a clergyman.' Post,
1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection. The spiteful Steevens thus wrote about Davies:--'His concern
ought to be with the outside of books; but Dr. Johnson, Dr. Percy, and some others have made
such a coxcomb of him, that he is now hardy enough to open volumes, turn over their leaves,
and give his opinions of their contents. Did I ever tell you an anecdote of him? About ten
years ago I wanted the Oxford Homer, and called at Davies's to ask for it, as I had seen one
thrown about his shop. Will you believe me, when I assure you he told me "he had but one, and
that he kept for his own reading?"' Garrick Corres. i. 608.

[1153] Johnson, writing to Beattie, post, Aug 21, 1780, says:--'Mr. Davies has got great success
as an author, generated by the corruption of a bookseller.' His principal works are Memoirs
of Garrick, 1780, and Dramatic Miscellanies, 1784.

[1154] Churchill, in the Rosciad, thus celebrated his wife and mocked his recitation:--

'With him came mighty Davies. On my life That Davies hath a very pretty wife:-- Statesman all
over!--In plots famous grown!-- He mouths a sentence, as curs mouth a bone.'

Churchill's Poems, i. 16.

See post, under April 20, 1764, and March 20, 1778. Charles Lamb in a note to his Essay on
the Tragedies of Shakespeare says of Davies, that he 'is recorded to have recited the Paradise
Lost better than any man in England in his day (though I cannot help thinking there must be
some mistake in this tradition).' Lamb's Works, ed. 1840, p. 517.

[1155] See Johnson's letter to Davies, post, June 18, 1783.

[1156] Mr. Murphy, in his Essay on the Life and Genius of Dr. Johnson, [p. 106], has given
an account of this meeting considerably different from mine, I am persuaded without any consciousness
of errour. His memory, at the end of near thirty years, has undoubtedly deceived him, and he
supposes himself to have been present at a scene, which he has probably heard inaccurately
described by others. In my note taken on the very day, in which I am confident I marked every
thing material that passed, no mention is made of this gentleman; and I am sure, that I should
not have omitted one so well known in the literary world. It may easily be imagined that this,
my first interview with Dr. Johnson, with all its circumstances, made a strong impression on
my mind, and would be registered with peculiar attention. BOSWELL.

[1157] See post, April 8, 1775. See post, May 15, 1776, and April 17, 1778.

[1159] By Henry Home, Lord Kames, 3 vols. Edinburgh, 1762. See post, Oct. 16, 1769. 'Johnson
laughed much at Lord Kames's opinion that war was a good thing occasionally, as so much valour
and virtue were exhibited in it. "A fire," says Johnson, "might as well be thought a good thing;
there is the bravery and address of the firemen employed in extinguishing it; there is much
humanity exerted in saving the lives and properties of the poor sufferers; yet after all this,
who can say a fire is a good thing?"' Johnson's Works, (1787) xi. 209.

[1160] No. 45 of the North Briton had been published on April 23. Wilkes was arrested under
a general warrant on April 30. On May 6 he was discharged from custody by the Court of Common
Pleas, before which he had been brought by a writ of Habeas Corpus. A few days later he was
served with a subpoena upon an information exhibited against him by the Attorney-General in
the Court of King's Bench. He did not enter an appearance, holding, as he said, the serving
him with the subpoena as a violation of the privilege of parliament. Parl. Hist. xv. 1360.

[1161] Mr. Sheridan was then reading lectures upon Oratory at Bath, where Derrick was Master
of the Ceremonies; or, as the phrase is, KING. BOSWELL. Dr. Parr, who knew Sheridan well, describes
him 'as a wrong-headed, whimsical man.' 'I remember,' he continues, 'hearing one of his daughters,
in the house where I lodged, triumphantly repeat Dryden's Ode upon St. Cecilia's Day, according
to the instruction given to her by her father. Take a sample:--

"None but the brave None but the brave. None but the brave deserve the fair."

Naughty Richard [R. B. Sheridan], like Gallio, seemed to care nought for these things.' Moore's
Sheridan, i. 9, 11. Sheridan writing from Dublin on Dec. 7, 1771, says:--'Never was party violence
carried to such a height as in this session; the House [the Irish House of Parliament] seldom
breaking up till eleven or twelve at night. From these contests the desire of improving in
the article of elocution is become very general. There are no less than five persons of rank
and fortune now waiting my leisure to become my pupils.' Ib. p. 60. See post, July 28, 1763.

[1162] Bonnell Thornton. See post July 1, 1763.

[1163] Lloyd was one of a remarkable group of Westminster boys. He was a school-fellow not
only of Churchill, the elder Colman, and Cumberland, buy also of Cowper and Warren Hastings.
Bonnell Thornton was a few years their senior. Not many weeks after this meeting with Boswell,
Lloyd was in the Fleet prison. Churchill in Indepence(Poems ii 310) thus addresses the Patrons
of the age:--

'Hence, ye vain boasters, to the Fleet repair And ask, with blushes ask if Lloyd is there.'

Of the four men who thus enlivened Boswell, two were dead before the end of the following year.
Churchill went first. When Lloyd heard of his death, '"I shall follow poor Charles," was all
he said, as he went to the bed from which he never rose again.' Thornton lived three or four
years longer, Forster's Essays, ii 217, 270, 289. See also his Life of Goldsmith i. 264, for
an account how 'Lloyd invited Goldsmith to sup with some friends of Grub Street, and left him
to pay the reckoning.' Thornton, Lloyd, Colman, Cowper, and Joseph Hill, to whom Cowper's famous
Epistle was addressed, had at one time been members of the Nonsense Club. Southey's Cowper, i. 37.

[1164] The author of the well-known sermons, see post, under Dec. 21, 1776.

[1165] See post, under Dec. 9, 1784.

[1166] See post, Feb. 7, 1775, under Dec. 24, 1783, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 10, 1773.

[1167] 'Sir,' he said to Reynolds, 'a man might write such stuff for ever, if he would abandon
his mind to it;' post, under March 30, 1783.

[1168] 'Or behind the screen' some one might have added, ante, i. 163.

[1169] Wesley was told that a whole waggon-load of Methodists had been lately brought before
a Justice of the Peace. When he asked what they were charged with, one replied, 'Why they pretended
to be better than other people, and besides they prayed from morning to night.' Wesley's Journal,
i. 361. See also post, 1780, near the end of Mr. Langton's Collection.

[1170] 'The progress which the understanding makes through a book has' he said, 'more pain
than pleasure in it;' post, May 1, 1783.

[1171] Matthew, vi. 16.

[1172] Boswell, it is clear, in the early days of his acquaintance with Johnson often led the
talk to this subject. See post, June 25, July 14, 21, and 28, 1763.

[1173] See post, April 7, 1778.

[1174] He finished his day, 'however late it might be,' by taking tea at Miss Williams's lodgings;
post, July 1, 1763.

[1175] See post, under Feb. 15, 1766, Feb. 1767, March 20, 1776, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept.
20, 1773, where Johnson says:--'I have been trying to cure my laziness all my life, and could
not do it.' It was this kind of life that caused so much of the remorse which is seen in his
Prayers and Meditations.

[1176] Horace Walpole writing on June 12, 1759 (Letters, iii. 231), says:--'A war that reaches
from Muscovy to Alsace, and from Madras to California, don't produce an article half so long
as Mr. Johnson's riding three horses at once.' I have a curious copper-plate showing Johnson
standing on one, or two, and leading a third horse in full speed.' It bears the date of November
1758. See post, April 3, 1778.

[1177] In the impudent Correspondence (pp. 63, 65) which Boswell and Andrew Erskine published
this year, Boswell shows why he wished to enter the Guards. 'My fondness for the Guards,' he
writes, 'must appear very strange to you, who have a rooted antipathy at the glare of scarlet.
But I must inform you, that there is a city called London, for which I have as violent an affection
as the most romantic lover ever had for his mistress.... I am thinking of the brilliant scenes
of happiness, which I shall enjoy as an officer of the guards. How I shall be acquainted with
all the grandeur of a court, and all the elegance of dress and diversions; become a favourite
of ministers of state, and the adoration of ladies of quality, beauty, and fortune! How many
parties of pleasure shall I have in town! How many fine jaunts to the noble seats of dukes,
lords, and members of parliament in the country! I am thinking of the perfect knowledge which
I shall acquire of men and manners, of the intimacies which I shall have the honour to form
with the learned and ingenious in every science, and of the many amusing literary anecdotes
which I shall pick up,' etc. Boswell, in his Hebrides (Aug. 18, 1773), says of himself:--'His
inclination was to be a soldier; but his father, a respectable Judge, had pressed him into
the profession of the law.'

[1178] A row of tenements in the Strand, between Wych Street and Temple Bar, and 'so called
from the butchers' shambles on the south side.' (Strype, B. iv. p. 118.) Butcher Row was pulled
down in 1813, and the present Pickett Street erected in its stead. P. CUNNINGHAM. In Humphry
Clinker, in the letter of June 10, one of the poor authors is described as having been 'reduced
to a woollen night-cap and living upon sheep's-trotters, up three pair of stairs backward in
Butcher Row.'

[1179] Cibber was poet-laureate from 1730 to 1757. Horace Walpole describes him as 'that good
humoured and honest veteran, so unworthily aspersed by Pope, whose Memoirs, with one or two
of his comedies, will secure his fame, in spite of all the abuse of his contemporaries.' His
successor Whitehead, Walpole calls 'a man of a placid genius.' Reign of George II, iii. 81.
See ante, pp. 149, 185, and post, Oct. 19, 1769, May 15, 1776, and Sept. 21, 1777.

[1180] The following quotations show the difference of style in the two poets:--

              COLLEY GIBBER.

   'When her pride, fierce in arms,
      Would to Europe give law;
   At her cost let her come,
      To our cheer of huzza!
   Not lightning with thunder more terrible darts,
   Than the burst of huzza from our bold British hearts.'

                     Gent. Mag. xxv. 515.

              WM. WHITEHEAD.

   'Ye guardian powers, to whose command,
      At Nature's birth, th' Almighty mind
      The delegated task assign'd
   To watch o'er Albion's favour'd land,
   What time your hosts with choral lay,
      Emerging from its kindred deep,
      Applausive hail'd each verdant steep,
   And white rock, glitt'ring to the new-born day!'

                     Ib. xxix. 32.

[1181] See ante, p. 167.

[1182] 'Whitehead was for some while Garrick's "reader" of new plays for Drury-lane.' Forster's
Goldsmith, ii. 41. See post, April 25, 1778, note. The verses to Garrick are given in Chalmers's
English Poets, xvii. 222.

[1183] 'In 1757 Gray published The Progress of Poetry and The Bard, two compositions at which
the readers of poetry were at first content to gaze in mute amazement. Some that tried them
confessed their inability to understand them.... Garrick wrote a few lines in their praise.
Some hardy champions undertook to rescue them from neglect; and in a short time many were content
to be shown beauties which they could not see.' Johnson's Works, viii. 478. See post, March
28, and April 2, 1775, and 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection. Goldsmith, no doubt, attacked
Gray among 'the misguided innovators,' of whom he said in his Life of Parnell:--'They have
adopted a language of their own, and call upon mankind for admiration. All those who do not
understand them are silent, and those who make out their meaning are willing to praise to show
they understand.' Goldsmith's Misc. Works, iv. 22.

[1184] Johnson, perhaps, refers to the anonymous critic quoted by Mason in his notes on this
Ode, who says:--'This abrupt execration plunges the reader into that sudden fearful perplexity
which is designed to predominate through the whole.' Mason's Gray, ed. 1807, i. 96.

[1185] 'Of the first stanza [of The Bard] the abrupt beginning has been celebrated; but technical
beauties can give praise only to the inventor. It is in the power of any man to rush abruptly
upon his subject that has read the ballad of Johnny Armstrong.' Johnson's Works, viii. 485.

[1186] My friend Mr. Malone, in his valuable comments on Shakspeare, has traced in that great
poet the disjecta membra of these lines. BOSWELL. Gray, in the edition of The Bard of the year
1768, in a note on these lines had quoted from King John, act v. sc. 1:--'Mocking the air with
colours idly spread.' Gosse's Gray, i. 41. But Malone quotes also from Macbeth, act i. sc. 2:--

'Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky And fan our people cold.'

'Out of these passages,' he said, 'Mr. Gray seems to have framed the first stanza of his celebrated
Ode.' Malone's Shakespeare, xv. 344.

[1187] Cradock records (Memoirs, 1.230) that Goldsmith said to him:--'You are so attached to
Kurd, Gray, and Mason, that you think nothing good can proceed but out of that formal school;--now,
I'll mend Gray's Elegy by leaving out an idle word in every line.

"The curfew tolls the knell of day, The lowing herd winds o'er the lea The ploughman homeward
plods his way And---"

Enough, enough, I have no ear for more.'

[1188] So, less than two years later, Boswell opened his mind to Paoli. 'My time passed here
in the most agreeable manner. I enjoyed a sort of luxury of noble sentiment. Paoli became more
affable with me. I made myself known to him.' Boswell's Corsica, p. 167.

[1189] See ante, p. 67.

[1190] See post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[1191] See post, March 30, 1778, where in speaking of the appearance of spirits after death
he says:--'All argument is against it; but all belief is for it.' See also ante, p. 343, and
post, April 15, 1778, under May 4, 1779, April 15, 1781, and June 12, 1784.

[1192] The caricature begins:--

'Pomposo, insolent and loud Vain idol of a scribbling crowd, Whose very name inspires an awe
Whose ev'ry word is Sense and Law.'

Churchill's Poems, i. 216.

[1193] The chief impostor, a man of the name of Parsons, had, it should seem, set his daughter
to play the part of the ghost in order to pay out a grudge against a man who had sued him for
a debt. The ghost was made to accuse this man of poisoning his sister-in-law, and to declare
that she should only be at ease in her mind if he were hanged. 'When Parsons stood on the Pillory
at the end of Cock Lane, instead of being pelted, he had money given him.' Gent. Mag. xxxii.
43, 82, and xxxiii. 144.

[1194] Horace Walpole, writing on Feb. 2, 1762 (Letters, iii. 481), says:--'I could send you
volumes on the Ghost, and I believe, if I were to stay a little, I might send its life, dedicated
to my Lord Dartmouth, by the Ordinary of Newgate, its two great patrons. A drunken parish clerk
set it on foot out of revenge, the Methodists have adopted it, and the whole town of London
think of nothing else.... I went to hear it, for it is not an apparition, but an audition,
... the Duke of York, Lady Northumberland, Lady Mary Coke, Lord Hertford, and I, all in one
Hackney-coach: it rained torrents; yet the lane was full of mob, and the house so full we could
not get in.' See post, April 10, 1778.

[1195] Described by Goldsmith in Retaliation as 'The scourge of impostors, the terror of quacks.'
See ante, p. 229.

[1196] The account was as follows:--'On the night of the 1st of February [1762] many gentlemen
eminent for their rank and character were, by the invitation of the Reverend Mr. Aldrich, of
Clerkenwell, assembled at his house, for the examination of the noises supposed to be made
by a departed spirit, for the detection of some enormous crime.

'About ten at night the gentlemen met in the chamber in which the girl, supposed to be disturbed
by a spirit, had, with proper caution, been put to bed by several ladies. They sat rather more
than an hour, and hearing nothing, went down stairs, when they interrogated the father of the
girl, who denied, in the strongest terms, any knowledge or belief of fraud.

'The supposed spirit had before publickly promised, by an affirmative knock, that it would
attend one of the gentlemen into the vault under the Church of St. John, Clerkenwell, where
the body is deposited, and give a token of her presence there, by a knock upon her coffin;
it was therefore determined to make this trial of the existence or veracity of the supposed spirit.

'While they were enquiring and deliberating, they were summoned into the girl's chamber by
some ladies who were near her bed, and who had heard knocks and scratches. When the gentlemen
entered, the girl declared that she felt the spirit like a mouse upon her back, and was required
to hold her hands out of bed. From that time, though the spirit was very solemnly required
to manifest its existence by appearance, by impression on the hand or body of any present,
by scratches, knocks, or any other agency, no evidence of any preter-natural power was exhibited.

'The spirit was then very seriously advertised that the person to whom the promise was made
of striking the coffin, was then about to visit the vault, and that the performance of the
promise was then claimed. The company at one o'clock went into the church, and the gentleman
to whom the promise was made, went with another into the vault. The spirit was solemnly required
to perform its promise, but nothing more than silence ensued: the person supposed to be accused
by the spirit, then went down with several others, but no effect was perceived. Upon their
return they examined the girl, but could draw no confession from her. Between two and three
she desired and was permitted to go home with her father.

'It is, therefore, the opinion of the whole assembly, that the child has some art of making
or counterfeiting a particular noise, and that there is no agency of any higher cause.' BOSWELL.
Gent. Mag. xxxii. 81. The following MS. letter is in the British Museum:--

'REVD. SIR,

The appointment for the examination stands as it did when I saw you last, viz., between 8 and
9 this evening. Mr. Johnson was applied to by a friend of mine soon after you left him, and
promised to be with us. Should be glad, if convenient, you'd show him the way hither. Mrs.
Oakes, of Dr. Macauley's recommendation, I should be glad to have here on the occasion; and
think it would do honour to the list of examiners to have Dr. Macauley with us.

I am, Dear Sir, your most obedient servant, STE. ALDRICH.

If Dr Macauley can conveniently attend, should be glad you'd acquaint Lord Dartmouth with it,
who seemed to be at loss to recommend a gentleman of the faculty at his end of the town.

St. John's Square. Monday noon.

To the Revd. Dr. Douglas.'

Endorsed 'Mr. Aldrich, Feb. 1762, about the Cock Lane ghost.--Examination at his house.'

[1197] Boswell was with Paoli when news came that a Corsican under sentence of death 'had consented
to accept of his life, upon condition of becoming hangman. This made a great noise among the
Corsicans, who were enraged at the creature, and said their nation was now disgraced. Paoli
did not think so. He said to me:--"I am glad of this. It will be of service. It will contribute
to form us to a just subordination. As we must have Corsican tailours, and Corsican shoemakers,
we must also have a Corsican hangman."' Boswell's Corsica, p. 201. See post, July 20 and 21,
1763, April 13, 1773, and March 28, 1775.

[1198] 'Mallet's Dramas had their day, a short day, and are forgotten.' Johnson's Works, viii. 468.

[1199] See ante, p. 384, note.

[1200] 'A man had heard that Dempster was very clever, and therefore expected that he could
say nothing but good things. Being brought acquainted, Mr. Dempster said to him with much politeness,
"I hope, Sir, your lady and family are well." "Ay, ay, man," said he, "pray where is the great
wit in that speech?"' Boswelliana, p. 307. Mr. Dempster is mentioned by Burns in The Author's
Earnest Cry and Prayer to the Scotch Representatives in the House of Commons:--'Dempster, a
true-blue Scot I'se warran.' In 1769 he was elected member for the Forfar Boroughs. Parl. Hist.
xvi. 453.

[1201] The Critical Review, in which Mallet himself sometimes wrote, characterised this pamphlet
as 'the crude efforts of envy, petulance and self conceit.' There being thus three epithets,
we, the three authours, had a humourous contention how each should be appropriated. BOSWELL.

[1202] Johnson (Works, ix. 86) talks of the chiefs 'gradually degenerating from patriarchal
rulers to rapacious landlords.' In Boswell's Hebrides, the subject is often examined.

[1203] See ante, i. 365.

[1204] 'Dr. Burney spoke with great warmth of affection of Dr. Johnson; said he was the kindest
creature in the world when he thought he was loved and respected by others. He would play the
fool among friends, but he required deference. It was necessary to ask questions and make no
assertion. If you said two and two make four, he would say, "How will you prove that, Sir?"
Dr. Burney seemed amiably sensitive to every unfavourable remark on his old friend.' H. C.
Robinson's Diary, iii. 485.

[1205] See post, April 24, 1777, note, and Oct. l0, 1779, where he consults Johnson about the
study of Greek. He formed wishes, scarcely plans of study but never studied.

[1206] See post, Feb. 18, 1777. It was Graham who so insulted Goldsmith by saying:--''Tis not
you I mean, Dr. Minor; 'tis Dr. Major there.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773.

[1207] See post, Sept. 19, 1777.

[1208] Of Mathematics Goldsmith wrote:--'This seems a science to which the meanest intellects
are equal.' See post, March 15, 1776, note.

[1209] In his Present State of Polite Learning, ch. 13 (Misc. Works, i. 266), Goldsmith writes:--'A
man who is whirled through Europe in a post-chaise, and the pilgrim who walks the grand tour
on foot, will form very different conclusions. Haud inexpertus loquor.' The last three words
are omitted in the second edition.

[1210] George Primrose in the Vicar of Wakefield (ch. 20), after describing these disputations,
says:--'In this manner I fought my way towards England.'

[1211] Dr. Warton wrote to his brother on Jan. 22, 1766:--'Of all solemn coxcombs Goldsmith
is the first; yet sensible--but affects to use Johnson's hard words in conversation.' Wooll's
Warton, p. 312.

[1212] It was long believed that the author of one of Goldsmith's early works was Lord Lyttelton.
'"Whenever I write anything," said Goldsmith, "I think the public make a point to know nothing
about it." So the present book was issued as a History of England in a series of Letters from
a Nobleman to his Son. The persuasion at last became general that the author was Lord Lyttelton,
and the name of that grave good lord is occasionally still seen affixed to it on the bookstalls.'
Forster's Goldsmith, i. 301. The Traveller was the first of his works to which he put his name.
It was published in 1764. 16. p. 364.

[1213] Published in 1759.

[1214] Published in 1760-1.

[1215] See his Epitaph in Westminster Abbey, written by Dr. Johnson. BOSWELL.

[1216] In allusion to this, Mr. Horace Walpole, who admired his writings, said he was 'an inspired
ideot;' and Garrick described him as one

'----for shortness call'd Noll, Who wrote like an angel, and talk'd like poor Poll.'

Sir Joshua Reynolds mentioned to me that he frequently heard Goldsmith talk warmly of the pleasure
of being liked, and observe how hard it would be if literary excellence should preclude a man
from that satisfaction, which he perceived it often did, from the envy which attended it; and
therefore Sir Joshua was convinced that he was intentionally more absurd, in order to lessen
himself in social intercourse, trusting that his character would be sufficiently supported
by his works. If it indeed was his intention to appear absurd in company, he was often very
successful. But with due deference to Sir Joshua's ingenuity, I think the conjecture too refined.
BOSWELL.

Horace Walpole's saying of the 'inspired ideot' is recorded in Davies's Garrick, ii. 151. Walpole,
in his Letters, describes Goldsmith as 'a changeling that has had bright gleams of parts,'
(v. 458); 'a fool, the more wearing for having some sense,' (vi. 29); 'a poor soul that had
sometimes parts, though never common sense,' (ib. p. 73); and 'an idiot, with once or twice
a fit of parts,' (ib. p. 379). Garrick's lines--

'Here lies Nolly Goldsmith, for shortness called Noll, Who wrote like an angel, but talked
like poor Poll,'

are his imaginary epitaph on Goldsmith, which, with the others, gave rise to Retaliation. Forster's
Goldsmith, ii. 405.

[1217] Rousseau accounting for the habit he has 'de balbutier promptement des paroles sans
idees,' continues, 'je crois que voila de quoi faire assez comprendre comment n'etant pas un
sot, j'ai cependant souvent passe pour l'etre, meme chez des gens en etat de bien juger....
Le parti que j'ai pris d'ecrire et de me cacher est precisement celui qui me convenait. Moi
present on n'aurait jamais su ce que je valois, on ne l'aurait pas soupconne meme.' Les Confessions,
Livre iii. See post, April 27, 1773, where Boswell admits that 'Goldsmith was often very fortunate
in his witty contests, even when he entered the lists with Johnson himself:' and April 30,
1773, where Reynolds says of him: 'There is no man whose company is more liked.'

[1218] Northcote, a few weeks before his death, said to Mr. Prior:--'When Goldsmith entered
a room, Sir, people who did not know him became for a moment silent from awe of his literary
reputation; when he came out again, they were riding upon his back.' Prior's Goldsmith, i.
440. According to Dr. Percy:--'His face was marked with strong lines of thinking. His first
appearance was not captivating; but when he grew easy and cheerful in company, he relaxed into
such a display of good humour as soon removed every unfavourable impression.' Goldsmith's Misc.
Works, i. 117.

[1219] 'Dr. Goldsmith told me, he himself envied Shakespeare.' Walpole's Letters, vi. 379.
Boswell, later on (post, May 9, 1773), says:--'In my opinion Goldsmith had not more of it [an
envious disposition] than other people have, but only talked of it freely.' See also post,
April 12, 1778. According to Northcote, 'Sir Joshua said that Goldsmith considered public notoriety
or fame as one great parcel, to the whole of which he laid claim, and whoever partook of any
part of it, whether dancer, singer, slight of hand man, or tumbler, deprived him of his right.'
Northcote's Reynolds, i. 248. See post, April 7, 1778, where Johnson said that 'Goldsmith was
not an agreeable companion, for he talked always for fame;' and April 9, 1778.

[1220] Miss Hornecks, one of whom is now married to Henry Bunbury, Esq., and the other to Colonel
Gwyn. BOSWELL.

[1221] 'Standing at the window of their hotel [in Lisle] to see a company of soldiers in the
Square, the beauty of the sisters Horneck drew such marked admiration, that Goldsmith, heightening
his drollery with that air of solemnity so generally a point in his humour and so often more
solemnly misinterpreted, turned off from the window with the remark that elsewhere he too could
have his admirers. The Jessamy Bride, Mrs. Gwyn, was asked about the occurrence not many years
ago; remembered it as a playful jest; and said how shocked she had subsequently been "to see
it adduced in print as a proof of his envious disposition."' Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 217.

[1222] Puppets.

[1223] He went home with Mr. Burke to supper; and broke his shin by attempting to exhibit to
the company how much better he could jump over a stick than the puppets. BOSWELL. Mr. Hoole
was one day in a coach with Johnson, when 'Johnson, who delighted in rapidity of pace, and
had been speaking of Goldsmith, put his head out of one of the windows to see they were going
right, and rubbing his hands with an air of satisfaction exclaimed:--"This man drives fast
and well; were Goldsmith here now he would tell us he could do better."' Prior's Goldsmith,
ii. 127. Dr. Isaac Goldsmith, his near relation, was Dean of Cloyne, in 1747. BOSWELL. This
note first appears in the second edition.

[1226] Mr. Welsh, in A Bookseller of the Last Century, p. 58, quotes the following entry from
an account-book of B. Collins of Salisbury, the printer of the first edition of the Vicar:--'Vicar
of Wakefield, 2 vols. 12mo., 1/3rd. B. Collins, Salisbury, bought of Dr. Goldsmith, the author,
October 28, 1762, L21.' Goldsmith, it should seem from this, as Collins's third share was worth
twenty guineas, was paid not sixty pounds, but sixty guineas. Collins shared in many of the
ventures of Newbery, Goldsmith's publisher. Mr. Welsh says (ib. p. 61) that Collins's accounts
show 'that the first three editions resulted in a loss.' If this was so, the booksellers must
have been great bunglers, for the book ran through three editions in six or seven months. Forster's
Goldsmith, i. 425.

[1227] The Traveller (price one shilling and sixpence) was published in December 1764, and
The Vicar of Wakefield in March 1766. In August 1765 the fourth edition of The Traveller appeared,
and the ninth in the year Goldsmith died. He received for it L21. Forster's Goldsmith, i. 364,
374, 409. See ante, p. 193, note i.

[1228] '"Miss Burney," said Mrs. Thrale [to Dr. Johnson], "is fond of The Vicar of Wakefield,
and so am I. Don't you like it, Sir?" "No, madam, it is very faulty; there is nothing of real
life in it, and very little of nature. It is a mere fanciful performance."' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 83. 'There are a hundred faults in this Thing,' said Goldsmith in the preface, 'and
a hundred things might be said to prove them beauties. But it is needless. A book may be amusing
with numerous errors, or it may be very dull without a single absurdity.' See post, April 25, 1778.

[1229] Anecdotes of Johnson, p. 119. BOSWELL.

[1230] Life of Johnson, p. 420. BOSWELL.

[1231] In his imprudence he was like Savage, of whom Johnson says (Works, viii. 161):--'To
supply him with money was a hopeless attempt; for no sooner did he see himself master of a
sum sufficient to set him free from care for a day, than he became profuse and luxurious.'
When Savage was 'lodging in the liberties of the Fleet, his friends sent him every Monday a
guinea, which he commonly spent before the next morning, and trusted, after his usual manner,
the remaining part of the week to the bounty of fortune.' Ib. p. 170.

[1232] It may not be improper to annex here Mrs. Piozzi's account of this transaction, in her
own words, as a specimen of the extreme inaccuracy with which all her anecdotes of Dr. Johnson
are related, or rather discoloured and distorted:--'I have forgotten the year, but it could
scarcely, I think, be later than 1765 or 1766 that he was called abruptly from our house after
dinner, and returning in about three hours, said he had been with an enraged authour, whose
landlady pressed him for payment within doors, while the bailiffs beset him without; that he
was drinking himself drunk with Madeira, to drown care, and fretting over a novel, which, when
finished, was to be his whole fortune, but he could not get it done for distraction, nor could
he step out of doors to offer it for sale. Mr. Johnson, therefore, sent away the bottle, and
went to the bookseller, recommending the performance, and desiring some immediate relief; which
when he brought back to the writer, he called the 'woman of the house directly to partake of
punch, and pass their time in merriment.' Anecdotes of Dr. Johnson, p. 119. BOSWELL. The whole
transaction took place in 1762, as is shown, ante, p. 415, note 1; Johnson did not know the
Thrales till 1764.

[1233] Through Goldsmith Boswell became acquainted with Reynolds. In his Letter to the People
of Scotland (p. 99), he says:--'I exhort you, my friends and countrymen, in the words of my
departed Goldsmith, who gave me many nodes Atticae, and gave me a jewel of the finest water--the
acquaintance of Sir Joshua Reynolds.'

[1234] See post, July 30, 1763.

[1235] See post, March 20, 1776, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 17, 1773.

[1236] See post, March 15, 1776.

[1237] 'Dr. Campbell was an entertaining story-teller, which [sic] sometimes he rather embellished;
so that the writer of this once heard Dr. Johnson say:--"Campbell will lie, but he never lies
on paper."' Gent. Mag. for 1785, p. 969.

[1238] I am inclined to think that he was misinformed as to this circumstance. I own I am jealous
for my worthy friend Dr. John Campbell. For though Milton could without remorse absent himself
from publick worship [Johnson's Works, vii. 115] I cannot. On the contrary, I have the same
habitual impressions upon my mind, with those of a truely venerable Judge, who said to Mr.
Langton, 'Friend Langton, if I have not been at church on Sunday, I do not feel myself easy.'
Dr. Campbell was a sincerely religious man. Lord Macartney, who is eminent for his variety
of knowledge, and attention to men of talents, and knew him well, told me, that when he called
on him in a morning, he found him reading a chapter in the Greek New Testament, which he informed
his Lordship was his constant practice. The quantity of Dr. Campbell's composition is almost
incredible, and his labours brought him large profits. Dr. Joseph Warton told me that Johnson
said of him, 'He is the richest authour that ever grazed the common of literature.' BOSWELL.

[1239] See post, April 7, 1778. Campbell complied with one of the Monita Padagogica of Erasmus.
'Si quem praeteribis natu grandem, magistratum, sacerdotem, doctorem.... memento aperire caput....
Itidem facito quum praeteribis asdem sacram.' Erasmus's Colloquies, ed. 1867, i. 36.

[1240] Reynolds said of Johnson:--'He was not easily imposed upon by professions to honesty
and candour; but he appeared to have little suspicion of hypocrisy in religion.' Taylor's Reynolds,
ii. 459. Boswell, in one of his penitent letters, wrote to Temple on July 21, 1790:--'I am
even almost inclined to think with you, that my great oracle Johnson did allow too much credit
to good principles, without good practice.' Letters of Boswell, p. 327.

[1241] Campbell lived in 'the large new-built house at the north-west-corner of Queen Square,
Bloomsbury, whither, particularly on a Sunday evening, great numbers of persons of the first
eminence for science and literature resorted for the enjoyment of conversation.' Hawkins's
Johnson, p. 210.

[1242] Churchill, in his first poem, The Rosciad (Poems, i. 4), mentions Johnson without any
disrespect among those who were thought of as judge.

'For Johnson some, but Johnson, it was feared, Would be too grave; and Sterne too gay appeared.'

In The Author (ib. ii. 36), if I mistake not, he grossly alludes to the convulsive disorder
to which Johnson was subject. Attacking the pensioners he says--the italics are his own:--

'Others, half-palsied only, mutes become, And what makes Smollett write makes Johnson dumb.'

[1243] See post, April 6, 1772, where Johnson called Fielding a blockhead.

[1244] Churchill published his first poem, The Rosciad, in March or April 1761 (Gent. Mag.
xxxi. 190); The Apology in May or June (Ib. p. 286); Night in Jan. 1762 (Ib. xxxii. 47); The
First and Second Parts of The Ghost in March (ib. p. 147); The Third Part in the autumn (ib.
p. 449); The Prophecy of Famine in Jan. 1763 (ib. xxxiii. 47), and The Epistle to Hogarth in
this month of July (ib. p. 363). He wrote the fourth part of The Ghost, and nine more poems,
and died on Nov. 4, 1764, aged thirty-two or thirty-three.

[1245] 'Cowper had a higher opinion of Churchill than of any other contemporary writer. "It
is a great thing," he said, "to be indeed a poet, and does not happen to more than one man
in a century; but Churchill, the great Churchill, deserved that name." He made him, more than
any other writer, his model.' Southey's Cowper, i. 87, 8.

[1246] Mr. Forster says that 'Churchill asked five guineas for the manuscript of The Rosciad
(according to Southey, but Mr. Tooke says he asked twenty pounds).' Finding no purchaser he
brought the poem out at his own risk. Mr. Forster continues:--'The pulpit had starved him on
forty pounds a year; the public had given him a thousand pounds in two months.' Forster's Essays,
ii. 226, 240. As The Rosciad was sold at one shilling a copy, it seems incredible that such
a gain could have been made, even with the profits of The Apology included. 'Blotting and correcting
was so much Churchill's abhorrence that I have heard from his publisher he once energetically
expressed himself, that it was like cutting away one's own flesh.' D'Israeli's Curiosities
of Literature, ed. 1834, iii. 129. D'Israeli 'had heard that after a successful work he usually
precipitated the publication of another, relying on its crudeness being passed over by the
public curiosity excited by its better brother. He called this getting double pay, for thus
he secured the sale of a hurried work.'

[1247] In the opening lines of Gotham, Bk. iii, there is a passage of great beauty and tenderness.

[1248] In 1769 I set Thornton's burlesque Ode. It was performed at Ranelagh in masks, to a
very crowded audience, as I was told; for I then resided in Norfolk. BURNEY. Dr. Burney's note
cannot be correct. He came to reside in London in 1760 (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, i. 133) The
Ode is in the list of 'new books, published' in the Gent. Mag. for June 1763, and is described
as having been performed at Ranelagh.

[1249] The Connoisseur was started by Thornton and Colman in 1754. Cowper and Lloyd were contributors.
Southey's Cowper, i. 46, 49, 65.

[1250] See ante, p. 350, note.

[1251] See post, Aug. 2, 1763, and Oct. 26, 1769.

[1252] See post. Sept. 20, 1777, note.

[1253] The northern bard mentioned page 421. When I asked Dr. Johnson's permission to introduce
him, he obligingly agreed; adding, however, with a sly pleasantry, 'but he must give us none
of his poetry.' It is remarkable that Johnson and Churchill, however much they differed in
other points, agreed on this subject. See Churchill's Journey.

['Under dark Allegory's flimsy veil
  Let Them with Ogilvie spin out a tale
  Of rueful length,'
       Churchill's Poems, ii. 329.]

It is, however, but justice to Dr. Ogilvie to observe, that his Day of Judgement has no inconsiderable
share of merit. BOSWELL.

[1254] 'Johnson said:--"Goldsmith should not be for ever attempting to shine in conversation."'
Post, April 27, 1773. See also post, May 7, 1773.

[1255] Fifteen years later Lord George Germaine, Secretary of State, asserted in a debate 'that
the King "was his own Minister," which Charles Fox took up admirably, lamenting that His Majesty
"was his own unadvised Minister."' Walpole's Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 314.

[1256] 'The general story of mankind will evince that lawful and settled authority is very
seldom resisted when it is well employed.... Men are easily kept obedient to those who have
temporal dominion in their hands, till their veneration is dissipated by such wickedness and
folly as can neither be defended nor concealed.' The Rambler, No. 50. See post, March 31, 1772.

[1258] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21, 1773. 296.

[1260] Goldsmith wrote from Edinburgh in 1753:--'Shall I tire you with a description of this
unfruitful country, where I must lead you over their hills all brown with heath, or their vallies
scarce able to feed a rabbit? Man alone seems to be the only creature who has arrived to the
natural size in this poor soil. Every part of the country presents the same dismal landscape.'
Forster's Goldsmith, i. 433.

[1261] See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 10, 1773.

[1262] Johnson would suffer none of his friends to fill up chasms in conversation with remarks
on the weather: 'Let us not talk of the weather.' BURNEY.

[1263] See ante, p. 332.

[1264] Boswell wrote to Temple on Sept. 9, 1767:--'How unaccountable is it that my father and
I should be so ill together! He is a man of sense and a man of worth; but from some unhappy
turn in his disposition he is much dissatisfied with a son whom you know. I write to him with
warmth, with an honest pride, wishing that he should think of me as I am; but my letters shock
him, and every expression in them is interpreted unfavourably. To give you an instance, I send
you a letter I had from him a few days ago. How galling is it to the friend of Paoli to be
treated so! I have answered him in my own style; I will be myself.' Letters of Boswell, p.
110. In the following passage in one of his Hypochondriacks he certainly describes his father.
'I knew a father who was a violent Whig, and used to attack his son for being a Tory, upbraiding
him with being deficient in "noble sentiments of liberty," while at the same time he made this
son live under his roof in such bondage, that he was not only afraid to stir from home without
leave, like a child, but durst scarcely open his mouth in his father's presence. This was sad
living. Yet I would rather see such an excess of awe than a degree of familiarity between father
and son by which all reverence is destroyed.' London Mag. 1781, p. 253.

[1265] Boswell, the day after this talk, wrote:--'I have had a long letter from my father,
full of affection and good counsel. Honest man! he is now very happy: it is amazing to think
how much he has had at heart, my pursuing the road of civil life.' Letters of Boswell, p. 25.

[1266] Gray, says Nicholls, 'disliked all poetry in blank verse, except Milton.' Gray's Works,
ed. 1858, v. 36. Goldsmith, in his Present State of Polite Learning (ch. xi.), wrote in 1759:--'From
a desire in the critic of grafting the spirit of ancient languages upon the English have proceeded
of late several disagreeable instances of pedantry. Among the number, I think, we may reckon
blank verse. Nothing but the greatest sublimity of subject can render such a measure pleasing;
however, we now see it used upon the most trivial occasions.' On the same page he speaks of
'the tuneless flow of our blank verse.' See post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea and the
beginning of 1781, under The Life of Milton, for Johnson's opinion of blank verse.

[1267] 'Johnson told me, that one day in London, when Dr. Adam Smith was boasting of Glasgow,
he turned to him and said, "Pray, Sir, have you ever seen Brentford?'" Boswell's Hebrides,
Oct. 29, 1773. See post, April 29, 1778.

[1268] 'He advised me to read just as inclination prompted me, which alone, he said, would
do me any good; for I had better go into company than read a set task. He said, too, that I
should prescribe to myself five hours a day, and in these hours gratify whatever literary desires
may spring up.' Letters of Boswell, p. 28. The Editor of these Letters compares Tranio's advice:--

'No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en: In brief, Sir, study what you most affect.'

Taming of the Shrew, act i. sc. I.

'Johnson used to say that no man read long together with a folio on his table. "Books," said
he, "that you may carry to the fire, and hold readily in your hand, are the most useful after
all."' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 197. See also The Idler, No. 67, and post, April 12, 1776,
and under Sept. 22, 1777.

[1269] Wilkes, among others, had attacked him in Aug. 1762 in The North Briton, Nos. xi. and xii.

[1271] In one thing at least he was changed. He could now indulge in the full bent, to use
his own words (Works, viii. l36), 'that inquisitiveness which must always be produced in a
vigorous mind, by an absolute freedom from all pressing or domestick engagements.'

[1272] See post, April 13, 1773, Sept. 17 and 19, 1777, March 21, 1783, and June 9, 1784. Lord
Shelburne says:--'After the Revolution the Tory and Jacobite parties had become almost identified
by their together opposing the Court for so many years, and still more by the persecution which
they suffered in common, for it was the policy of Sir Robert Walpole to confound them as much
as possible, so as to throw the Jacobite odium upon every man who opposed government.' Fitzmaurice's
Shelburne, i. 35. Lord Bolingbroke (Works, iii. 28) complains that the writers on the side
of the ministry 'frequently throw out that every man is a friend to the Pretender who is not
a friend of Walpole.'

[1273] See post, April 6, 1775

[1274] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 402 [Nov. 10]. BOSWELL.

[1275] Mr. Walmsley died in 1751 (ante, p. 81). Johnson left Lichfield in 1737. Unless Mr.
Walmsley after 1737 visited London from time to time, he can scarcely be meant.

[1276] See ante, p. 336. Johnson, in his Dictionary under Whiggism, gives only one quotation,
namely, from Swift: 'I could quote passages from fifty pamphlets, wholly made up of whiggism
and atheism.' See post, April 28, 1778, where he said: 'I have always said, the first Whig
was the Devil;' and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 21 and Nov. 8, 1773. To Johnson's sayings might
be opposed one of Lord Chatham's in the House of Lords: 'There are some distinctions which
are inherent in the nature of things. There is a distinction between right and wrong--between
Whig and Tory.' Parl. Hist. xvi. 1107.

[1278] Letter to Rutland on Travel, 16mo. 1569. BOSWELL. This letter is contained in a little
volume entitled, Profitable Instructions; describing what special observations are to be taken
by travellers in all nations, states and countries; pleasant and profitable. By the three much
admired, Robert, late Earl of Essex, Sir Philip Sidney, and Secretary Davison. London. Printed
for Benjamin Fisher, at the Sign of the Talbot, without Aldersgate. 1633. (Lowndes gives the
date of 1613, but the earliest edition seems to be this of 1633.) The letter from which Boswell
quotes is entitled, The late E. of E. his advice to the E. of R. in his Travels. It is dated
Greenwich, Jan. 4, 1596. Mr. Spedding (Bacon's Works, ix. 4) suggests that 'it may have been
(wholly or in part) written by Bacon.'

[1279] Boswell (Boswelliana, p. 210) says that this 'impudent fellow' was Macpherson.

[1280] Boswell repeated this saying and some others to Paoli. 'I felt an elation of mind to
see Paoli delighted with the sayings of Mr. Johnson, and to hear him translate them with Italian
energy to the Corsican heroes.' Here Boswell describes the person as 'a certain authour.' Boswell's
Corsica, p. 199

[1281] Boswell thus takes him off in his comic poem The Court of Session Garland:--

'"This cause," cries Hailes, "to judge I can't pretend, For justice, I percieve, wants an e
at the end."'

Mr. R. Chambers, in a note on this, says:--'A story is told of Lord Hailes once making a serious
objection to a law-paper, an in consequence to the whole suit, on account of the word justice
being thus spelt. Traditions of Edinburgh, ii. 161. Burke says that he 'found him to be a clever
man, and generally knowing.' Burke's Corres. iii. 301. See ante p. 267, and post May 12, 1774
and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773.

[1282] 'Ita feri ut se mori sentiat.' Suetonius, Caligula, chap. xxx.

[1283] Johnson himself was constantly purposing to keep a journal. On April 11, 1773, he told
Boswell 'that he had twelve or fourteen times attempted to keep a journal of his life,' post,
April 11, 1773. The day before he had recorded:--'I hope from this time to keep a journal.'
Pr. and Med. p. 124. Like records follow, as:--'Sept. 24, 1773. My hope is, for resolution
I dare no longer call it, to divide my time regularly, and to keep such a journal of my time,
as may give me comfort in reviewing it.' Ib. p. 132. 'April 6, 1777. My purpose once more is
To keep a journal.' Ib. p. 161. 'Jan. 2, 1781. My hope is To keep a journal.' Ib. p. 188. See
also post, April 14, 1775, and April 10, 1778.

[1284] Boswell, when he was only eighteen, going with his father to the [Scotch] Northern Circuit,
'kept,' he writes, 'an exact journal.' Letters of Boswell, p. 8. In the autumn of 1762 he also
kept a journal which he sent to Temple to read. Ib. p. 19.

[1285] 'It has been well observed, that the misery of man proceeds not from any single crush
of overwhelming evil, but from small vexations continually repeated.' Johnson's Works, viii.
333. 'The main of life is indeed composed of small incidents and petty occurrences.' Ib. ii.
322. Dr. Franklin (Memoirs, i. 199) says:--'Human felicity is produced not so much by great
pieces of good fortune that seldom happen as by little advantages that occur every day.'

[1286] Boswell wrote the next day:--'We sat till between two and three. He took me by the hand
cordially, and said, "My dear Boswell, I love you very much." Now Temple, can I help indulging
vanity?' Letters of Boswell, p. 27. Fourteen years later Boswell was afraid that he kept Johnson
too late up. 'No, Sir,' said he, 'I don't care though I sit all night with you.' Post, Sept.
23, 1777. See also post, April 7, 1779, where Johnson, speaking of these early days, said to
Boswell, 'it was not the wine that made your head ache, but the sense that I put into it.'

[1287] Tuesday was the 19th.

[1288] 'The elder brother of the first Lord Rokeby, called long Sir Thomas Robinson, on account
of his height, and to distinguish him from Sir Thomas Robinson, first Lord Grantham. It was
on his request for an epigram that Lord Chesterfield made the distich:--

"Unlike my subject will I make my song, It shall be witty, and it shan't be long,"

and to whom he said in his last illness, "Ah, Sir Thomas, it will be sooner over with me than
it would be with you, for I am dying by inches." Lord Chesterfield was very short.' CROKER.
Southey, writing of Rokeby Hall, which belonged to Robinson, says that 'Long Sir Thomas found
a portrait of Richardson in the house; thinking Mr. Richardson a very unfit personage to be
suspended in effigy among lords, ladies, and baronets, he ordered the painter to put him on
the star and blue riband, and then christened the picture Sir Robert Walpole.' Southey's Life,
iii. 346. See also ante, p. 259 note 2, and post, 1770, near the end of Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea.

[1289] Johnson (Works, vi. 440) had written of Frederick the Great in 1756:--'His skill in
poetry and in the French language has been loudly praised by Voltaire, a judge without exception
if his honesty were equal to his knowledge.' Boswell, in his Hypochondriacks, records a conversation
that he had with Voltaire on memory:--'I asked him if he could give me any notion of the situation
of our ideas which we have totally forgotten at the time, yet shall afterwards recollect. He
paused, meditated a little, and acknowledged his ignorance in the spirit of a philosophical
poet by repeating as a very happy allusion a passage in Thomson's Seasons--"Aye," said he,
"Where sleep the winds when it is calm?"' London Mag. 1783, p. 157. The passage is in Thomson's
Winter, l. 116:--

'In what far-distant region of the sky, Hush'd in deep silence, sleep ye when 'tis calm?'

[1290] See post, ii. 54, note 3.

[1291] Bernard Lintot, the father, published Pope's Iliad and Odyssey. Over the sale of the
Odyssey a quarrel arose between the two men. Johnson's Works, viii. 251, 274. Lintot is attacked
in the Dunciad, i. 40 and ii. 53; He was High-Sheriff for Sussex in 1736--the year of his death.
Gent. Mag. vi. 110. The son is mentioned in Johnson's Works, viii. 282.

[1292] 'July 19, 1763. I was with Mr. Johnson to-day. I was in his garret up four pair of stairs;
it is very airy, commands a view of St. Paul's and many a brick roof. He has many good books,
but they are all lying in confusion and dust.' Letters of Boswell, p. 30. On Good Friday, 1764,
Johnson made the following entry:--'I hope to put my rooms in order: Disorder I have found
one great cause of idleness.' On his birth-day in the same year he wrote:--'To-morrow I purpose
to regulate my room.' Pr. and Med. pp. 50, 60.

[1293] See ante, p. 140, and post, under Sept. 9, 1779.

[1294] Afterwards Rector of Mamhead, Devonshire. He is the grandfather of the present Bishop
of London. He and Boswell had been fellow-students at the University of Edinburgh, and seemed
in youth to have had an equal amount of conceit. 'Recollect,' wrote Boswell, 'how you and I
flattered ourselves that we were to be the greatest men of our age.' Letters of Boswell, p.
159. They began to correspond at least as early as 1758. The last letter was one from Boswell
on his death-bed. Johnson thus mentions Temple (Works, viii. 480):--'Gray's character I am
willing to adopt, as Mr. Mason has done, from a letter written to my friend Mr. Boswell by
the Revd. Mr. Temple, Rector of St. Gluvias in Cornwall; and am as willing as his warmest well-wisher
to believe it true.'

[1295] Johnson (Works, vii. 240) quotes the following by Edmund Smith, and written some time
after 1708:--'It will sound oddly to posterity, that, in a polite nation, in an enlightened
age, under the direction of the most literary property in 1710, whether by wise, most learned,
and most generous encouragers of knowledge in the world, the property of a mechanick should
be better secured than that of a scholar! that the poorest manual operations should be more
valued than the noblest products of the brain! that it should be felony to rob a cobbler of
a pair of shoes, and no crime to deprive the best authour of his whole subsistence! that nothing
should make a man a sure title to his own writings but the stupidity of them!' See post, May
8, 1773, and Feb.7, 1774; and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17 and 20, 1773.

[1296] The question arose, after the passing of the first statute respecting literary property
in 1710, whether by certain of its provisions this perpetual copyright at common law was extinguished
for the future. The question was solemnly argued before the Court of King's Bench, when Lord
Mansfield presided, in 1769. The result was a decision in favour of the common-law right as
unaltered by the statute, with the disapproval however of Mr. Justice Yates. In 1774 the same
point was brought before the House of Lords, and the decision of the court below reversed by
a majority of six judges in eleven, as Lord Mansfield, who adhered to the opinion of the minority,
declined to interfere; it being very unusual, from motives of delicacy, for a peer to support
his own judgment on appeal to the House of Lords. Penny Cylco. viii. I. See post, Feb. 7, 1774.
Lord Shelburne, on Feb 27, 1774, humourously describes the scene in the Lords to the Earl of
Chatham:--'Lord Mansfield showed himself the merest Captain Bobadil that, I suppose, ever existed
in real life. You can, perhaps, imagine to yourself the Bishop of Carlyle, an old metaphysical
head of a college, reading a paper, not a speech, out of an old sermon book, with very bad
sight leaning on the table, Lord Mansfield sitting at it, with eyes of fixed melancholy looking
at him, knowing that the bishop's were the only eyes in the House who could not meet his; the
judges behind him, full of rage at being drawn into so absurd an opinion, and abandoned in
it by their chief; the Bishops waking, as your Lordship knows they do, just before they vote,
and staring on finding something the matter; while Lord Townshend was close to the bar, getting
Mr. Dunning to put up his glass to look at the head of criminal justice.' Chatham Corres. iv. 327.

[1297] See post April 15 1778, note.

[1298] Dr. Franklin (Memoirs iii. 178), complaining of the high prices of English books, describes
'the excessive artifices made use of to puff up a paper of verses into a pamphlet, a pamphlet
into an octavo, and an octavo into a quarto with white-lines, exorbitant margins, &c., to such
a degree that the selling of paper seems now the object, and printing on it only the pretence.'

[1299] Boswell was on friendly terms with him. He wrote to Erskine on Dec. 2, 1761:--'I am
just now returned from eating a most excellent pig with the most magnificent Donaldson.' Boswell
and Erskine Correspondence, p. 20.

[1300] Dr. Carlyle (Auto. p. 516) says that Lord Mansfield this year (1769) 'talking of Hume
and Robertson's Histories, said that though he could point out few or no faults in them, yet,
when he was reading their books, he did not think he was reading English.' See post, ii. 72,
for Hume's Scotticisms. Hume went to France in 1734 when he was 23 years old and stayed there
three years. Hume's Autobiography, p. vii. He never mastered French colloquially. Lord Charlemont,
who met him in Turin in 1748, says:--'His speech in English was rendered ridiculous by the
broadest Scotch accent, and his French was, if possible, still more laughable.' Hardy's Charlemont,
i. 15. Horace Walpole, who met him in Paris in 1765, writes (Letters, iv. 426):--'Mr. Hume
is the only thing in the world that they [the French] believe implicitly; which they must do,
for I defy them to understand any language that he speaks.' Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 122) says
of Hume's writings:--'Their careless inimitable beauties often forced me to close the volume
with a mixed sensation of delight and despair.' Dr. Beattie (Life, p. 243) wrote on Jan. 5,
1778:--'We who live in Scotland are obliged to study English from books, like a dead language,
which we understand, but cannot speak.' He adds:--'I have spent some years in labouring to
acquire the art of giving a vernacular cast to the English we write.' Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto,
p. 222) says:--'Since we began to affect speaking a foreign language, which the English dialect
is to us, humour, it must be confessed, is less apparent in conversation.'

[1301] Discours sur L'origine et les fondemens de l'inegalite parmi les hommes, 1754.

[1302] 'I have indeed myself observed that my banker ever bows lowest to me when I wear my
full-bottomed wig, and writes me Mr. or Esq., accordingly as he sees me dressed.' Spectator,
No. 150.

[1303] Mr. Croker, quoting Mr. Wright, says:--'See his Quantulumanque (sic) concerning Money.'
I have read Petty's Quantulumcunque, but do not find the passage in it.

[1304] Johnson told Dr. Burney that Goldsmith said, when he first began to write, he determined
to commit to paper nothing but what was new; but he afterwards found that what was new was
false, and from that time was no longer solicitous about novelty. BURNEY. Mr. Forster (Life
of Goldsmith, i. 421) says that this note 'is another instance of the many various and doubtful
forms in which stories about Johnson and Goldsmith are apt to appear when once we lose sight
of the trustworthy Boswell. This is obviously a mere confused recollection of what is correctly
told by Boswell [post, March 26, 1779].' There is much truth in Mr. Forster's general remark:
nevertheless Burney likely enough repeated to the best of his memory what he had himself heard
from Johnson.

[1305] 'Their [the ancient moralists'] arguments have been, indeed, so unsuccessful, that I
know not whether it can be shewn, that by all the wit and reason which this favourite cause
has called forth a single convert was ever made; that even one man has refused to be rich,
when to be rich was in his power, from the conviction of the greater happiness of a narrow
fortune.' Johnson's Works, ii. 278. See post, June 3, 1781, and June 3, Sept. 7, and Dec. 7, 1782.

[1306] Johnson (Works, vi. 440) shows how much Frederick owed to 'the difficulties of his youth.'
'Kings, without this help from temporary infelicity, see the world in a mist, which magnifies
everything near them, and bounds their view to a narrow compass, which few are able to extend
by the mere force of curiosity.' He next points out what Cromwell 'owed to the private condition
in which he first entered the world;' and continues:--'The King of Prussia brought to the throne
the knowledge of a private man, without the guilt of usurpation. Of this general acquaintance
with the world there may be found some traces in his whole life. His conversation is like that
of other men upon common topicks, his letters have an air of familiar elegance, and his whole
conduct is that of a man who has to do with men.'

[1307] See ante p. 408

[1308] See ante, p. 298.

[1309] That this was Mr. Dempster seems likely from the Letters of Boswell (p. 34), where Boswell
says:--'I had prodigious satisfaction to find Dempster's sophistry (which he has learnt from
Hume and Rousseau) vanquished by the solid sense and vigorous reasoning of Johnson. Dempster,'
he continues, 'was as happy as a vanquished argumentator could be.' The character of the 'benevolent
good man' suits Dempster (see post, under Feb. 7, 1775, where Boswell calls him 'the virtuous
and candid Dempster'), while that of the 'noted infidel writer' suits Hume. We find Boswell,
Johnson, and Dempster again dining together on May 9, 1772.

[1310]

'Thou wilt at best but suck a bull, Or sheer swine, all cry and no wool.'

Hudibras, Part i. Canto I. 1. 851.

Dr. Z. Grey, in his note on these lines, quotes the proverbial saying 'As wise as the Waltham
calf that went nine times to suck a bull.' He quotes also from The Spectator, No. 138, the
passage where the Cynic said of two disputants, 'One of these fellows is milking a ram, and
the other holds the pail.'

[1311] The writer of the article Vacuum in the Penny Cyclo. (xxvi. 76), quoting Johnson's words,
adds:--'That is, either all space is full of matter, or there are parts of space which have
no matter. The alternative is undeniable, and the inference to which the modern philosophy
would give the greatest probablility is, that all space is full of matter in the common sense
of the word, but really occupied by particles of matter with vacuous interstices.'

[1312] 'When any one tells me that he saw a dead man restored to life, I immediately consider
with myself, whether it be more probable that this person should either deceive or be deceived,
or that the fact which he relates should really have happened.' Humes Essay on Miracles, Part
i. See post Sept. 22 1777, where Boswell again quoted this passage.

[1313] A coffee-house over against Catherine Street, now the site of a tourists' ticket office.
Athenaeum, No. 3041.

[1314] Stockdale records (Memoirs, i. 202) that Johnson once said to him:--'Whenever it is
the duty of a young and old man to act at the same time with a spirit of independence and generosity;
we may always have reason to hope that the young man will ardently perform, and to fear that
the old man will desert, his duty.'

[1315] Boswell thus writes of this evening:--'I learn more from him than from any man I ever
was with. He told me a very odd thing, that he knew at eighteen as much as he does now; that
is to say, his judgment is much stronger, but he had then stored up almost all the facts he
has now, and he says that he has led but an idle life; only think, Temple, of that!' Letters
of Boswell, p. 34. See ante, p. 56, and post, ii. 36. He told Windham in 1784 'that he read
Latin with as much ease when he went to college as at present.' Windham's Diary, p. 17.

[1316] Johnson in 1739 wrote of 'those distempers and depressions, from which students, not
well acquainted with the constitution of the human body, sometimes fly for relief to wine instead
of exercise, and purchase temporary ease, by the hazard of the most dreadful consequences.'
Works, vi. 271. I think no praise ever went so close to his heart, as when Mr. Hamilton called
out one day upon Brighthelmstone Downs, "Why Johnson rides as well, for aught I see, as the
most illiterate fellow in England."' He wrote to Mrs. Thrale in 1777:--'No season ever was
finer. Barley, malt, beer and money. There is the series of ideas. The deep logicians call
it a sorites. I hope my master will no longer endure the reproach of not keeping me a horse.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 360. See post, March 19 and 28, 1776, Sept. 20, 1777, and Nov. 21, 1778.
Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 234) tells the following story of Mrs. Macaulay's daughter:--'Desirous
from civility to take some notice of her, and finding she was reading Shakespeare, I asked
her if she was not delighted with many parts of King John. "I never read the Kings, ma'am,"
was the truly characteristic reply.' See post, April 13, 1773, and May 15, 1776.

[1318] This speech was perhaps suggested to Johnson by the following passage in The Government
of the Tongue (p. 106)--a book which he quotes in his Dictionary:--'Lycurgus once said to one
who importuned him to establish a popular parity in the state, "Do thou," says he, "begin it
first in thine own family."'

[1319] The first volume was published in 1756, the second in 1782.

[1320] Warton, to use his own words, 'did not think Pope at the head of his profession. In
other words, in that species of poetry wherein Pope excelled, he is superior to all mankind;
and I only say that this species of poetry is not the most excellent one of the art.' He disposes
the English poets in four classes, placing in the first only Spenser, Shakespeare, and Milton.
'In the second class should be ranked such as possessed the true poetical genius in a more
moderate degree, but who had noble talents for moral, ethical, and panegyrical poetry.' In
this class, in his concluding volume, he says, 'we may venture to assign Pope a place, just
above Dryden. Yet, to bring our minds steadily to make this decision, we must forget, for a
moment, the divine Music Ode of Dryden; and may, perhaps, then be compelled to confess that
though Dryden be the greater genius, yet Pope is the better artist.' Warton's Essay, i. i,
vii. and ii. 404. See post, March 31, 1772.

[1321] Mr. Croker believes Joseph Warton was meant. His father, however, had been Fellow of
Magdalen College, Oxford, and was afterwards Vicar of Basingstoke and Cobham, and Professor
of Poetry in his own University, so that the son could scarcely be described as being 'originally
poor.' It is, no doubt, after Boswell's fashion to introduce in consecutive paragraphs the
same person once by name and once anonymously; but then the 'certain author who disgusted Boswell
by his forwardness,' mentioned just before Warton, may be Warton himself.

[1322] 'When he arrived at Eton he could not make a verse; that is, he wanted a point indispensable
with us to a certain rank in our system. But this wonderful boy, having satisfied the Master
[Dr. Barnard] that he was an admirable scholar, and possessed of genius, was at once placed
at the head of a form. He acquired the rules of Latin verse; tried his powers; and perceiving
that he could not rise above his rivals in Virgil, Ovid, or the lyric of Horace, he took up
the sermoni propiora, and there overshadowed all competitors. In the following lines he describes
the hammer of the auctioneer with a mock sublimity which turns Horace into Virgil:--

'Jam-jamque cadit, celerique recursu Erigitur, lapsum retrahens, perque aera nutat.'

Nichols's Lit. Anec. viii. 547.

Horace Walpole wrote of him in Sept. 1765 (Letters, iv. 411):--'He is a very extraordinary
young man for variety of learning. He is rather too wise for his age, and too fond of showing
it; but when he has seen more of the world, he will choose to know less.' He died at Rome in
the following year. Hume, on hearing the news, wrote to Adam Smith:--'Were you and I together,
dear Smith, we should shed tears at present for the death of poor Sir James Macdonald. We could
not possibly have suffered a greater loss than in that valuable young man.' J. H. Burton's
Hume, ii. 349. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 5, 1773.

[1323] Boswell says that Macdonald had for Johnson 'a great terrour.' (Boswelliana, p. 216.)
Northcote (Life of Reynolds, i. 329) says:--'It is a fact that a certain nobleman, an intimate
friend of Reynolds, had strangely conceived in his mind such a formidable idea of all those
persons who had gained great fame as literary characters, that I have heard Sir Joshua say,
he verily believed he could no more have prevailed upon this noble person to dine at the same
table with Johnson and Goldsmith than with two tigers.' According to Mr. Seward (Biographiana,
p. 600), Mrs. Cotterell having one day asked Dr. Johnson to introduce her to a celebrated writer,
'Dearest madam,' said he, 'you had better let it alone; the best part of every author is in
general to be found in his book, I assure you.' Mr. Seward refers to The Rambler, No. 14, where
Johnson says that 'there has often been observed a manifest and striking contrariety between
the life of an authour and his writings.'

[1324] See post, Jan. 19, 1775. In his Hebrides (p. i) Boswell writes:--'When I was at Ferney,
in 1764, I mentioned our design to Voltaire. He looked at me as if I had talked of going to
the North Pole, and said, "You do not insist on my accompanying you?" "No, Sir." "Then I am
very willing you should go."'

[1325] 'When he went through the streets he desired to have one to lead him by the hand. They
asked his opinion of the high church. He answered that it was a large rock, yet there were
some in St. Kilda much higher, but that these were the best caves he ever saw; for that was
the idea which he conceived of the pillars and arches upon which the church stands.' M. Martin's
Western Isles, p. 297. Mr. Croker compares the passage in The Spectator (No. 50), in which
an Indian king is made to say of St. Paul's:--'It was probably at first an huge misshapen rock
that grew upon the top of the hill, which the natives of the country (after having cut it into
a kind of regular figure) bored and hollowed with incredible pains and industry.'

[1326] Boswell, writing to Temple the next day, slightly varies these words:--'He said, "My
dear Boswell, it would give me great pain to part with you, if I thought we were not to meet
again."' Letters of Boswell, p. 34.

[1327] Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 43) protests against 'the trite and lavish praise of the happiness
of our boyish years, which is echoed with so much affectation in the world. That happiness
I have never known, that time I have never regretted. The poet may gaily describe the short
hours of recreation; but he forgets the daily tedious labours of the school, which is approached
each morning with anxious and reluctant steps.' See ante, p. 44, and post, under Feb. 27, 1772.

[1328] About fame Gibbon felt much as Johnson did. 'I am disgusted,' he wrote (ib. 272), 'with
the affectation of men of letters, who complain that they have renounced a substance for a
shadow, and that their fame (which sometimes is no insupportable weight) affords a poor compensation
for envy, censure, and persecution. My own experience, at least, has taught me a very different
lesson; twenty happy years have been animated by the labour of my History, and its success
has given me a name, a rank, a character, in the world, to which I should not otherwise have
been entitled.'

[1329] See ante, p. 432.

[1330] See ante, p. 332.

[1331] This opinion was given by him more at large at a subsequent period. See Journal of a
Tour of the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 32 [Aug. 16]. BOSWELL. 'That Swift was its author, though
it be universally believed, was never owned by himself, nor very well proved by any evidence;
but no other claimant can be produced, and he did not deny it when Archbishop Sharpe and the
Duchess of Somerset, by showing it to the Queen, debarred him from a bishoprick.' Johnson's
Works, viii. 197. See also post, March 24, 1775. Stockdale records (Memoirs, ii. 61) that Johnson
said 'that if Swift really was the author of The Tale of the Tub, as the best of his other
performances were of a very inferior merit, he should have hanged himself after he had written
it.' Scott (Life of Swift, ed. 1834, p. 77) says:--'Mrs. Whiteway observed the Dean, in the
latter years of his life [in 1735], looking over the Tale, when suddenly closing the book he
muttered, in an unconscious soliloquy, "Good God! what a genius I had when I wrote that book!"
She begged it of him, who made some excuse at the moment; but on her birthday he presented
her with it inscribed, "From her affectionate cousin." On observing the inscription, she ventured
to say, "I wish, Sir, you had said the gift of the author!" The Dean bowed, smiled good-humouredly,
and answered, "No, I thank you," in a very significant manner.' There is this to be said of
Johnson's incredulity about the Tale of a Tub, that the History of John Bull and the Memoirs
of Martinus Scriblerus, though both by Arbuthnot, were commonly assigned to Swift and are printed
in his Works.

[1332] 'Thomson thinks in a peculiar train, and he thinks always as a man of genius; he looks
round on Nature and on Life with the eye which Nature bestows only on a poet;--the eye that
distinguishes in everything presented to its view whatever there is on which imagination can
delight to be detained, and with a mind that at once comprehends the vast, and attends to the
minute.' Johnson's Works, viii. 377. See post, ii. 63, and April 11, 1776.

[1333] Burke seems to be meant. See post, April 25, 1778, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15,
and Sept. 15, 1773.--It is strange however that, while in these three places Boswell mentions
Burke's name, he should leave a blank here. In Boswelliana, p. 328, Boswell records:--'Langton
said Burke hammered his wit upon an anvil, and the iron was cold. There were no sparks flashing
and flying all about.'

[1334] In Boswelliana (p. 214) this anecdote is thus given:--'Boswell was talking to Mr. Samuel
Johnson of Mr. Sheridan's enthusiasm for the advancement of eloquence. "Sir," said Mr. Johnson,
"it won't do. He cannot carry through his scheme. He is like a man attempting to stride the
English Channel. Sir, the cause bears no proportion to the effect. It is setting up a candle
at Whitechapel to give light at Westminster."' See also ante, p. 385, and post. Oct. 16, 1969,
April 18 and May 17, 1783.

[1335] Most likely Boswell himself. See ante, p. 410.

[1336] 'Let a Frenchman talk twice with a minister of state, he desires no more to furnish
out a volume.' Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xvi. 197. Lord Chesterfield wrote from Paris in 1741:--'They
[the Parisians] despise us, and with reason, for our ill-breeding; on the other hand, we despite
them for their want of learning, and we are in the right of it.' Supplement to Chesterfield's
Letters, p. 49. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 14, 1773.

[1337] 'Dr. Johnson said that he had been told by an acquaintance of Sir Isaac Newton, that
in early life he started as a clamorous infidel.' Seward's Anecdotes, ii. 324. In Brewster's
Life of Newton I find no mention of early infidelity. On the contrary, Newton had been described
as one who 'had been a searcher of the Scriptures from his youth' (ii. 314). Brewster says
that 'some foreign writers have endeavoured to shew that his theological writings were composed
at a late period of life, when his mind was in its dotage.' It was not so, however. Ib. p. 315.

[1338] I fully intended to have followed advice of such weight; but having staid much longer
both in Germany and Italy than I proposed to do, and having also visited Corsica, I found that
I had exceeded the time allowed me by my father, and hastened to France in my way homewards.
BOSWELL. See ante, p. 410.

[1339]

'Has heaven reserved, in pity to the poor, No pathless waste, or undiscovered shore? No secret
island in the boundless main? No peaceful desert, yet unclaimed by Spain?'

Johnson looked upon the discovery of America as a misfortune to mankind. In Taxation no Tyranny
(Works, vi. 233) he says that 'no part of the world has yet had reason to rejoice that Columbus
found at last reception and employment. In the same year, in a year hitherto disastrous to
mankind, by the Portuguese was discovered the passage of the Indies, and by the Spaniards the
coast of America.' On March 4, 1773, he wrote (Croker's Boswell, p. 248):--'I do not much wish
well to discoveries, for I am always afraid they will end in conquest and robbery.' See ante,
p. 308, note 2, and post, March 21, 1775, and under Dec. 24, 1783.

[1340] See ante, p. 394, note 2.

[1341] Letters written from Leverpoole, Chester, Corke, &c., by Samuel Derrick, 1767.

[1342] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd ed. p. 104 [Aug. 27, 1773]. BOSWELL.

[1343] Ibid. p. 142 [242, Sept. 22, 1773]. BOSWELL. Johnson added:--'but it was nothing.' Derrick,
in 1760, published Dryden's Misc. Works, with an Account of his Life.

[1344] He published a biographical work, containing an account of eminent writers, in three
vols. 8vo. BOSWELL.

[1345]

'Thus the soft gifts of sleep conclude the day, And stretched on bulks, as usual, poets lay.'

The Dunciad, ii. 420.

In Humphry Clinker, in the Letter of June 10, in which is described the dinner given by S----
to the poor authors, of one of them it is said:--'The only secret which he ever kept was the
place of his lodgings; but it was believed that during the heats of summer he commonly took
his repose upon a bulk.' Johnson defines bulk as a part of a building jutting out.

[1346] 'Knowledge is certainly one of the means of pleasure, as is confessed by the natural
desire which every mind feels of increasing its ideas ... without knowing why we always rejoice
when we learn, and grieve when we forget.' Rasselas, ch. xi.

[1347] In the days of Old London Bridge, as Mr. Croker points out, even when the tide would
have allowed passengers to shoot it, those who were prudent landed above the bridge, and walked
to some wharf below it.

[1348] All who are acquainted with the history of religion, (the most important, surely, that
concerns the human mind,) know that the appellation of Methodists was first given to a society
of students in the University of Oxford, who about the year 1730 were distinguished by an earnest
and methodical attention to devout exercises. This disposition of mind is not a novelty, or
peculiar to any sect, but has been, and still may be found, in many christians of every denomination.
Johnson himself was, in a dignified manner, a Methodist. In his Rambler, No. 110, he mentions
with respect 'the whole discipline of regulated piety;' and in his Prayers and Meditations,
many instances occur of his anxious examination into his spiritual state. That this religious
earnestness, and in particular an observation of the influence of the Holy Spirit, has sometimes
degenerated into folly, and sometimes been counterfeited for base purposes, cannot be denied.
But it is not, therefore, fair to decry it when genuine. The principal argument in reason and
good sense against methodism is, that it tends to debase human nature, and prevent the generous
exertions of goodness, by an unworthy supposition that GOD will pay no regard to them; although
it is positively said in the scriptures that He 'will reward every man according to his works.'
[St. Matthew xvi. 27.] But I am happy to have it [in] my power to do justice to those whom
it is the fashion to ridicule, without any knowledge of their tenets; and this I can do by
quoting a passage from one of their best apologists, Mr. Milner, who thus expresses their doctrine
upon this subject. 'Justified by faith, renewed in his faculties, and constrained by the love
of Christ, their believer moves in the sphere of love and gratitude, and all his duties flow
more or less from this principle. And though they are accumulating for him in heaven a treasure
of bliss proportioned to his faithfulness and activity, and it is by no means inconsistent
with his principles to feel the force of this consideration, yet love itself sweetens every
duty to his mind; and he thinks there is no absurdity in his feeling the love of GOD as the
grand commanding principle of his life.' Essays on several religious Subjects, &c., by Joseph
Milner, A.M., Master of the Grammar School of Kingston upon-Hull, 1789, p. 11. BOSWELL. Southey
(Life of Wesley, i. 41), mentioning the names given at Oxford to Wesley and his followers,
continues:--'One person with less irreverence and more learning observed, in reference to their
methodical manner of life, that a new sect of Methodists was sprung up, alluding to the ancient
school of physicians known by that name.' Wesley, in 1744, wrote The Humble Address to the
King of the Societies in derision called Methodists. Journal, i. 437. He often speaks of 'the
people called Methodists,' but sometimes he uses the term without any qualification. Mrs. Thrale,
in 1780, wrote to Johnson:--'Methodist is considered always a term of reproach, I trust, because
I never yet did hear that any one person called himself a Methodist.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 119.

[1349] Wesley said:--'We should constantly use the most common, little, easy words (so they
are pure and proper) which our language affords. When first I talked at Oxford to plain people
in the Castle [the prison] or the town, I observed they gaped and stared. This quickly obliged
me to alter my style, and adopt the language of those I spoke to; and yet there is a dignity
in their simplicity, which is not disagreeable to those of the highest rank.' Southey's Wesley,
i. 431. See post, 1770, in Dr. Maxwell's Collectanea, Oct. 12, 1779, Aug. 30, 1780, and Boswell's
Hebrides, Nov. 10, 1773.

[1350] In the original, struck.

[1351] Epigram, Lib. ii. 'In Elizabeth. Angliae Reg.' MALONE.

[1352] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23.

[1353] Virgil, Eclogues, i. 5. Johnson, when a boy, turned the line thus:--'And the wood rings
with Amarillis' name.' Ante, p. 51.

[1354] Boswell said of Paoli's talk about great men:--'I regret that the fire with which he
spoke upon such occasions so dazzled me, that I could not recollect his sayings, so as to write
them down when I retired from his presence.' Corsica, p. 197.

[1355] More passages than one in Boswell's Letters to Temple shew this absence of relish. Thus
in 1775 he writes:--'I perceive some dawnings of taste for the country' (p. 216); and again:--'I
will force a taste for natural beauties' (p. 219).

[1356] Milton's L'Allegro, 1. 118.

[1357] See post, April 2, 1775, and April 17, 1778.

[1358] My friend Sir Michael Le Fleming. This gentleman, with all his experience of sprightly
and elegant life, inherits, with the beautiful family Domain, no inconsiderable share of that
love of literature, which distinguished his venerable grandfather, the Bishop of Carlisle.
He one day observed to me, of Dr. Johnson, in a felicity of phrase, 'There is a blunt dignity
about him on every occasion.' BOSWELL.

[1359] Wordsworth's lines to the Baronet's daughter, Lady Fleming, might be applied to the
father:--

'Lives there a man whose sole delights Are trivial pomp and city noise, Hardening a heart that
loathes or slights What every natural heart enjoys?'

Wordsworth's Poems, iv. 338.

[1360] Afterwards Lord Stowell. He was a member of Doctors' Commons, the college of Civilians
in London, who practised in the Ecclesiastical Courts and the Court of the Admiralty. See Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 14, 1773.

[1361] He repeated this advice on the death of Boswell's father, post, Sept. 7, 1782.

[1362] Johnson (Works, ix. 159) describes 'the sullen dignity of the old castle.' See also
Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 4. 1773.

[1363] Probably Burke's Vindication of Natural Society, published in 1756 when Burke was twenty-six.

[1364] See ante, p. 421.

[1365] Boswell wrote to Temple on July 28, 1763:--'My departure fills me with a kind of gloom
that quite overshadows my mind. I could almost weep to think of leaving dear London, and the
calm retirement of the Inner Temple. This is very effeminate and very young, but I cannot help
it.' Letters of Boswell, p. 46. Bettesworth:--'Reverend Sir,--I take the liberty to send you
Roger Ascham's works in English. Though Mr. Bennet's name is in the title, the editor was in
reality Mr. Johnson, the author of the Rambler, who wrote the life of the author, and added
several notes. Mr. Johnson gave it to Mr. Bennet, for his advantage,' &c.--CROKER. Very likely
Davies exaggerated Johnson's share in the book. Bennet's edition was published, not in 1763,
but in 1761.

[1368] 'Lord Sheffield describes the change in Gibbon's opinions caused by the reign of terror:--'He
became a warm and zealous advocate for every sort of old establishment. I recollect in a circle
where French affairs were the topic and some Portuguese present, he, seemingly with seriousness,
argued in favour of the Inquisition at Lisbon, and said he would not, at the present moment,
give up even that old establishment.' Gibbons's Misc. Works, i. 328. One of Gibbon's correspondents
told him in 1792, that the Wealth of Nations had been condemned by the Inquisition on account
of 'the lowness of its style and the looseness of the morals which it inculcates.' Ib. ii.
479. See also post, May 7, 1773.

[1369] Johnson wrote on Aug. 17, 1773:--'This morning I saw at breakfast Dr. Blacklock, the
blind poet, who does not remember to have seen light, and is read to by a poor scholar in Latin,
Greek, and French. He was originally a poor scholar himself. I looked on him with reverence.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 110. See also Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773. Spence published an Account
of Blacklock, in which he meanly omitted any mention of Hume's great generosity to the blind
poet. J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 392. Hume asked Blacklock whether he connected colour and sound.
'He answered, that as he met so often with the terms expressing colours, he had formed some
false associations, but that they were of the intellectual kind. The illumination of the sun,
for instance, he supposed to resemble the presence of a friend.' Ib. p. 389.

[1370] They left London early and yet they travelled only 51 miles that day. The whole distance
to Harwich is 71 miles. Paterson's Itinerary, i. 323.

[1371] Mackintosh (Life, ii. 162) writing of the time of William III, says that 'torture was
legal in Scotland, and familiar in every country of Europe but England. Was there a single
writer at that time who had objected to torture? I think not.' In the Gent. Mag. for 1742 (p.
660) it is stated that 'the King of Prussia has forbid the use of torture in his dominions.'
In 1747 (p. 298) we read that Dr. Blackwell, an English physician, had been put to the torture
in Sweden. Montesquieu in the Esprit des Lois, vi. 17, published in 1748, writing of 'la question
ou torture centre les criminels,' says:--'Nous voyons aujourd'hui une nation tres-bien policee
[la nation anglaise] la rejeter sans inconvenient. Elle n'est donc pas necessaire par sa nature.'
Boswell in 1765 found that Paoli tortured a criminal with fire. Corsica, p. 158. Voltaire,
in 1777, after telling how innocent men had been put to death with torture in the reign of
Lewis XIV, continues--'Mais un roi a-t-il le temps de songer a ces menus details d'horreurs
au milieu de ses fetes, de ses conquetes, et de ses mattresses? Daignez vous en occuper, o
Louis XVI, vous qui n'avez aucune de ces distractions!' Voltaire's Works, xxvi. 332. Johnson,
two years before Voltaire thus wrote, had been shown la chambre de question--the torture-chamber-in
Paris. Post, Oct. 17, 1775. It was not till the Revolution that torture was abolished in France.
One of the Scotch judges in 1793, at the trial of Messrs. Palmer and Muir for sedition (post,
June 3, 1781, note), 'asserted that now the torture was banished, there was no adequate punishment
for sedition.' Parl. Hist. xxx. 1569.

[1372] 'A cheerful and good heart will have a care of his meat and drink.' Ecclesiasticus, xxx. 25.

'Verecundari neminem apud mensam decet,
Nam ibi de divinis atque humanis cernitur.'
   Trinummus, act 2, sc. 4.

Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 149) records that 'Johnson often said, "that wherever the dinner is ill
got, there is poverty, or there is avarice, or there is stupidity; in short, the family is
somehow grossly wrong; for," continued he, "a man seldom thinks with more earnestness of anything
than he does of his dinner; and if he cannot get that well dressed, he should be suspected
of inaccuracy in other things."' Yet he 'used to say that a man who rode out for an appetite
consulted but little the dignity of human nature.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 204.

[1373] This essay is more against the practices of the parasite than gulosity. It is entitled
The art of living at the cost of others. Johnson wrote to one of Mrs. Thrale's children:--'Gluttony
is, I think, less common among women than among men. Women commonly eat more sparingly, and
are less curious in the choice of meat; but if once you find a woman gluttonous, expect from
her very little virtue. Her mind is enslaved to the lowest and grossest temptation.' Piozzi
Letters, ii. 298.

[1374] Hawkins (Life, p. 355) mentions 'the greediness with which he ate, his total inattention
to those among whom he was seated, and his profound silence at the moment of refection.'

[1375] Cumberland (Memoirs, i. 357) says:--'He fed heartily, but not voraciously, and was extremely
courteous in his commendations of any dish that pleased his palate.'

[1376] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on July 10, 1780:--'Last week I saw flesh but twice and
I think fish once; the rest was pease. You are afraid, you say, lest I extenuate myself too
fast, and are an enemy to violence; but did you never hear nor read, dear Madam, that every
man has his genius, and that the great rule by which all excellence is attained and all success
procured, is to follow genius; and have you not observed in all our conversations that my genius
is always in extremes; that I am very noisy or very silent; very gloomy or very merry; very
sour or very kind? And would you have me cross my genius when it leads me sometimes to voracity
and sometimes to abstinence?' Piozzi Letters, ii. 166.

[1378] In the last year of his life, when he knew that his appetite was diseased, he wrote
to Mrs. Thrale:--'I have now an inclination to luxury which even your table did not excite;
for till now my talk was more about the dishes than my thoughts. I remember you commended me
for seeming pleased with my dinners when you had reduced your table; I am able to tell you
with great veracity, that I never knew when the reduction began, nor should have known what
it was made, had not you told me. I now think and consult to-day what I shall eat to-morrow.
This disease will, I hope, be cured.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 362.

[1379] Johnson's visit to Gordon and Maclaurin are just mentioned in Boswell's Hebrides, under
Nov. 11, 1772.

[1380] The only nobleman with whom he dined 'about the same time' was Lord Elibank. After dining
with him, 'he supped,' says Boswell, 'with my wife and myself.' Ib.

[1381] See post, April 15, 1778.

[1382] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 102) says, 'Johnson's own notions about eating were nothing less
than delicate; a leg of pork boiled till it dropped from the bone, a veal-pie with plums and
sugar, or the outside cut of a salt buttock of beef were his favourite dainties.' Cradock saw
Burke at a tavern dinner send Johnson a very small piece of a pie, the crust of which was made
with bad butter. 'Johnson soon returned his plate for more. Burke exclaimed:--"I am glad that
you are able so well to relish this pie." Johnson, not at all pleased that what he ate should
ever be noticed, retorted:--"There is a time of life, Sir, when a man requires the repairs
of a table."' Cradock's Memoirs, i. 229. A passage in Baretti's Italy, ii. 316, seems to show
that English eating in general was not delicate. 'I once heard a Frenchman swear,' he writes,
'that he hated the English, "parce qu'ils versent du beurre fondu sur leur veau rod."'

[1383] 'He had an abhorrence of affectation,' said Mr. Langton. Post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's
Collection.

[1384] At college he would not let his companions say prodigious. Post, April 17, 1778.

[1385] See post, Sept. 19, 1777, and 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection. Dugald Stewart quotes
a saying of Turgot:--'He who had never doubted of the existence of matter might be assured
he had no turn for metaphysical disquisitions.' Life of Reid, p. 416.

[1386] Claude Buffier, born 1661, died 1737. Author of Traite despremieres verites et de la
source de nos jugements.

[1387]

'Not when a gilt buffet's reflected pride Turns you from sound philosophy aside.'

Pope's Satires, ii. 5.

[1388] Mackintosh (Life, i. 71) said that 'Burke's treatise on the Sublime and Beautiful is
rather a proof that his mind was not formed for pure philosophy; and if we may believe Boswell
that it was once the intention of Mr. Burke to have written against Berkeley, we may be assured
that he would not have been successful in answering that great speculator; or, to speak more
correctly, that he could not have discovered the true nature of the questions in dispute, and
thus have afforded the only answer consistent with the limits of the human faculties.'

[1389] Goldsmith's Retaliation.

[1390] I have the following autograph letter written by Johnson to Dr. Taylor three weeks after
Boswell's departure.

'DEAR SIR,

'Having with some impatience reckoned upon hearing from you these two last posts, and been
disappointed, I can form to myself no reason for the omission but your perturbation of mind,
or disorder of body arising from it, and therefore I once more advise removal from Ashbourne
as the proper remedy both for the cause and the effect.

'You perhaps ask, whither should I go? any whither where your case is not known, and where
your presence will cause neither looks nor whispers. Where you are the necessary subject of
common talk, you will not safely be at rest.

'If you cannot conveniently write to me yourself let somebody write for you to

'Dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate,

'SAM. JOHNSON.

'August 25, 1763.

'To the Reverend Dr. Taylor
           in Ashbourne,
                 Derbyshire.'

Five other letters on the same subject are given in Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. pp. 324, 342,
382. Taylor and his wife 'never lived very well together' (p. 325), and at last she left him.
On May 22nd of the next year Johnson congratulated Taylor 'upon the happy end of so vexatious
an affair, the happyest [sic] that could be next to reformation and reconcilement' (p. 382).
Taylor did not follow the advice to leave Ashbourne; for on Sept. 3 Johnson wrote to him:--'You
seem to be so well pleased to be where you are, that I shall not now press your removal; but
do not believe that every one who rails at your wife wishes well to you. A small country town
is not the place in which one would chuse to quarrel with a wife; every human being in such
places is a spy.' Ib. p. 343.

[1391] According to Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 210) he was accompanied by his black servant Frank.
'I must have you know, ladies,' said he, 'that Frank has carried the empire of Cupid further
than most men. When I was in Lincolnshire so many years ago he attended me thither; and when
we returned home together, I found that a female haymaker had followed him to London for love.'
If this story is generally true, it bears the mark of Mrs. Piozzi's usual inaccuracy. The visit
was paid early in the year, and was over in February; what haymakers were there at that season?

[1392] Boswell by his quotation marks refers, I think, to his Hebrides, Oct. 24, 1773, where
Johnson says:--'Nobody, at times, talks more laxly than I do.' See also post, ii. 73.

[1393] See post, April 26, 1776, for old Mr. Langton's slowness of understanding.

[1394] See ante, i. 320.

[1395] Mr. Best (Memorials, p. 65) thus writes of a visit to Langton:--'We walked to the top
of a very steep hill behind the house. Langton said, "Poor dear Dr. Johnson, when he came to
this spot, turned back to look down the hill, and said he was determined to take a roll down.
When we understood what he meant to do, we endeavoured to dissuade him; but he was resolute,
saying, he had not had a roll for a long time; and taking out of his lesser pockets whatever
might be in them, and laying himself parallel with the edge of the hill, he actually descended,
turning himself over and over till he came to the bottom." This story was told with such gravity,
and with an air of such affectionate remembrance of a departed friend, that it was impossible
to suppose this extraordinary freak an invention of Mr. Langton.' It must have been in the
winter that he had this roll.

[1396] Boswell himself so calls it in a Mr. letter to Temple written three or four months after
Garrick's death, Letters of Boswell, p. 242. See also Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773.

[1397] Malone says:--'Reynolds was the original founder of our Literary Club about the year
1762, the first thought of which he started to Dr. Johnson at his own fireside.' Prior's Malone,
p. 434. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 122) says:--'Johnson called Reynolds their Romulus, or said somebody
else of the company called him so, which was more likely.' According to Hawkins (Life, p. 425)
the Club was founded in the winter of 1763, i.e. 1763-4.

[1398] Dr. Nugent, a physician, was Burke's father-in-law. Nugent was a Roman Catholic, and
it was on Friday that the Club before long came to meet. We may assume that he would not on
that day eat meat. 'I fancy,' Mrs. Piozzi writes (Anec. p. 122), 'Dr. Nugent ordered an omelet
sometimes on a Friday or Saturday night; for I remember Mr. Johnson felt very painful sensations
at the sight of that dish soon after his death, and cried:--"Ah my poor dear friend! I shall
never eat omelet with thee again!" quite in an agony.' Dr. Nugent, in the imaginary college
at St. Andrews, was to be the professor of physic. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 25, 1773.

[1399] Mr. Andrew Chamier was of Huguenot descent, and had been a stock-broker. He was a man
of liberal education. 'He acquired such a fortune as enabled him, though young, to quit business,
and become, what indeed he seemed by nature intended for, a gentleman.' Hawkins's Johnson,
p. 422. In 1764 he was Secretary in the War Office. In 1775 he was appointed Under Secretary
of State. Forster's Goldsmith, i. 310. He was to be the professor of commercial politics in
the imaginary college. Johnson passed one of his birth-days at his house; post, under Sept.
9, 1779, note.

[1400] 'It was Johnson's intention,' writes Hawkins (Life, p. 423), 'that their number should
not exceed nine.' Nine was the number of the Ivy Lane Club (ante, p. 190). Johnson, I suppose,
looked upon nine as the most clubable number. 'It was intended,' says Dr. Percy, 'that if only
two of these chanced to meet for the evening, they should be able to entertain each other.'
Goldsmith's Misc. Works, i. 70. Hawkins adds that 'Mr. Dyer (post, 1780 in Mr. Langton's Collection),
a member of the Ivy Lane Club, who for some years had been abroad, made his appearance among
us, and was cordially received.' According to Dr. Percy, by 1768 not only had Hawkins formally
withdrawn, but Beauclerk had forsaken the club for more fashionable ones. 'Upon this the Club
agreed to increase their number to twelve; every new member was to be elected by ballot, and
one black ball was sufficient for exclusion. Mr. Beauclerk then desired to be restored to the
Society, and the following new members were introduced on Monday, Feb. 15, 1768; Sir R. Chambers,
Dr. Percy and Mr. Colman.' Goldsmith's Misc. Works, i. 72. In the list in Croker's Boswell,
ed. 1844, ii. 326, the election of Percy and Chambers is placed in 1765. In 1766, Monday was
the night of meeting. Post, May 10, 1766. In Dec. 1772 the night was changed to Friday. Goldsmith's
Misc. Works, i. 72. Hawkins says (Life, pp. 424, 5):--'We seldom got together till nine; preparing
supper took up till ten; and by the time that the table was cleared, it was near eleven. Our
evening toast was the motto of Padre Paolo, Esto perpetua! Esto perpetua was being soon not
Padre Paolo's motto, but his dying prayer. 'As his end evidently approached, the brethren of
the convent came to pronounce the last prayers, with which he could only join in his thoughts,
being able to pronounce no more than these words, "Esto perpetua" mayst thou last for ever;
which was understood to be a prayer for the prosperity of his country.' Johnson's Works, vi. 269.

[1402] See post, March 14, 1777.

[1403] 'After 1783 it removed to Prince's in Sackville-street, and on his house being soon
afterwards shut up, it removed to Baxter's, which subsequently became Thomas's, in Dover-street.
In January 1792 it removed to Parsloe's, in St. James's-street; and on February 26, 1799, to
the Thatched-house in the same street.' Forster's Goldsmith i. 311.

[1404] The second edition is here spoken of. MALONE.

[1405] Life of Johnson, p. 425. BOSWELL.

[1406] From Sir Joshua Reynolds. BOSWELL. The Knight having refused to pay his portion of the
reckoning for supper, because he usually eat no supper at home, Johnson observed, 'Sir John,
Sir, is a very unclubable man.' BURNEY. Hawkins (Life, p. 231) says that 'Mr. Dyer had contracted
a fatal intimacy with some persons of desperate fortunes, who were dealers in India stock,
at a time when the affairs of the company were in a state of fluctuation.' Malone, commenting
on this passage, says that 'under these words Mr. Burke is darkly alluded to, together with
his cousin.' He adds that the character given of Dyer by Hawkins 'is discoloured by the malignant
prejudices of that shallow writer, who, having quarrelled with Mr. Burke, carried his enmity
even to Mr. Burke's friends.' Prior's Malone, p. 419. See also ante, p. 27. Hawkins (Life,
p. 420) said of Goldsmith:--'As he wrote for the booksellers, we at the Club looked on him
as a mere literary drudge, equal to the task of compiling and translating, but little capable
of original, and still less of poetical composition.'

[1407] Life of Johnson, p. 425. BOSWELL. Hawkins is 'equally inaccurate' in saying' that Johnson
was so constant at our meetings as never to absent himself.' (Ib. p. 424.) See post, Johnson's
letter to Langton of March 9, 1766, where he says:--'Dyer is constant at the Club; Hawkins
is remiss; I am not over diligent.'

[1408] Letters to and from Dr. Johnson. Vol. ii. p. 278 [387]. BOSWELL. The passage is as follows:--'"If
he does apply," says our Doctor to Mr. Thrale, "I'll black-ball him." "Who, Sir? Mr. Garrick,
your friend, your companion,--black-ball him!" "Why, Sir, I love my little David dearly, better
than all or any of his flatterers do, but surely one ought, &c."'

[1409] Pope's Moral Essays, iii. 242.

[1410] Malone says that it was from him that Boswell had his account of Garrick's election,
and that he had it from Reynolds. He adds that 'Johnson warmly supported Garrick, being in
reality a very tender affectionate man. He was merely offended at the actors conceit.' He continues:--'On
the former part of this story it probably was that Hawkins grounded his account that Garrick
never was of the Club, and that Johnson said he never ought to be of it. And thus it is that
this stupid biographer, and the more flippant and malicious Mrs. Piozzi have miscoloured and
misrepresented almost every anecdote that they have pretented to tell of Dr. Johnson.' Prior's
Malone, p. 392. Whatever was the slight cast upon Garrick, he was nevertheless the sixth new
member elected. Four, as I have shown, were added by 1768. The next elections were in 1773
(Croker's Boswell, ed. 1844. ii. 326), when five were added, of whom Garrick was the second,
and Boswell the fifth. In 1774 five more were elected, among whom were Fox and Gibbon. Hannah
More (Memoirs, i. 249) says that 'upon Garrick's death, when numberless applications were made
to succeed him [in the Club], Johnson was deaf to them all. He said, "No, there never could
be found any successor worthy of such a man;" and he insisted upon it there should be a year's
widowhood in the club, before they thought of a new election.'

[1411] Grainger wrote to Percy on April 6, 1764:--'Sam. Johnson says he will review it in The
Critical' In August, 1765, he wrote:--'I am perfectly satisfied with the reception the Sugar
Cane has met with, and am greatly obliged to you and Mr. Johnson for the generous care you
took of it in my absence.' Prior's Goldsmith, i. 238. He was absent in the West Indies. He
died on Dec. 16, 1766. Ib. p. 241. The review of the Sugar Cane in the Critical Review (p.
270) is certainly by Johnson. The following passage is curious:--'The last book begins with
a striking invocation to the genius of Africa, and goes on to give proper instructions for
the buying and choice of negroes.... The poet talks of this ungenerous commerce without the
least appearance of detestation; but proceeds to direct these purchasers of their fellow-creatures
with the same indifference that a groom would give instructions for choosing a horse.

'Clear roll their ample eye; their tongue be red;
 Broad swell their chest; their shoulders wide expand;
 Not prominent their belly; clean and strong
 Their thighs and legs in just proportion rise.'

See also post, March 21, 1776.

[1412] Johnson thus ends his brief review:--'Such in the poem on which we now congratulate
the public as on a production to which, since the death of Pope, it not be easy to find anything
equal.' Critical Review, p. 462.

[1413] Pr. and Med. p. 50. BOSWELL. BOSWELL.

[1415] It was on his birth-day that he said this. He wrote on the same day:--'I have outlived
many friends. I have felt many sorrows. I have made few improvements.'

[1416] Prayers and Meditations, p. 58. BOSWELL. In his Vision of Theodore (Works, ix. 174)
he describes the state of mind which he has recorded in his Meditations:--'There were others
whose crime it was rather to neglect Reason than to disobey her; and who retreated from the
heat and tumult of the way, not to the bowers of Intemperance, but to the maze of Indolence.
They had this peculiarity in their condition, that they were always in sight of the road of
Reason, always wishing for her presence, and always resolving to return to-morrow.'

[1417] See Appendix F.

[1418] It used to be imagined at Mr. Thrale's, when Johnson retired to a window or corner of
the room, by perceiving his lips in motion, and hearing a murmur without audible articulation,
that he was praying: but this was not always the case, for I was once, perhaps unperceived
by him, writing at a table, so near the place of his retreat, that I heard him repeating some
lines in an ode of Horace, over and over again, as if by iteration, to exercise the organs
of speech, and fix the ode in his memory:

     Audiet cives acuisse ferrum
     Quo graves Persas melius perirent,
     Audiet pugnas....
                     Odes, i. 2, 21.
     ['Our sons shall hear, shall hear to latest times,
       Of Roman arms with civil gore imbrued,
       Which better had the Persian foe subdued.'
                           Francis.]

It was during the American War. BURNEY. Boswell in his Hebrides (Oct. 12, 1773) records, 'Dr.
Johnson is often uttering pious ejaculations, when he appears to be talking to himself; for
sometimes his voice grows stronger, and parts of the Lord's Prayer are heard.' In the same
passage he describes other 'particularities,' and adds in a note:--'It is remarkable that Dr.
Johnson should have read this account of some of his own peculiar habits, without saying anything
on the subject, which I hoped he would have done.' See post, Dec. 1784, note.

[1419] Churchill's Poems, i. 16. See ante, p. 391.

[1420] 'It is in vain to try to find a meaning in every one of his particularities, which,
I suppose, are mere habits contracted by chance; of which every man has some that are more
or less remarkable.' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 12, 1773. 'The love of symmetry and order, which
is natural to the mind of man, betrays him sometimes into very whimsical fancies. "This noble
principle," says a French author, "loves to amuse itself on the most trifling occasions. You
may see a profound philosopher," says he, "walk for an hour together in his chamber, and industriously
treading at every step upon every other board in the flooring."' The Spectator, No. 632.

[1421] Mr. S. Whyte (Miscellanea Nova, p. 49) tells how from old Mr. Sheridan's house in Bedford-street,
opposite Henrietta-street, with an opera-glass he watched Johnson approaching. 'I perceived
him at a good distance working along with a peculiar solemnity of deportment, and an awkward
sort of measured step. Upon every post as he passed along, he deliberately laid his hand; but
missing one of them, when he had got at some distance he seemed suddenly to recollect himself,
and immediately returning carefully performed the accustomed ceremony, and resumed his former
course, not omitting one till he gained the crossing. This, Mr. Sheridan assured me, was his
constant practice.'

[1422] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 316. BOSWELL. 'The day that we left
Talisker, he bade us ride on. He then turned the head of his horse back towards Talisker, stopped
for some time; then wheeled round to the same direction with ours, and then came briskly after
us.' Boswell's Hebrides', Oct. 12, 1773.

[1423] Sir Joshua's sister, for whom Johnson had a particular affection, and to whom he wrote
many letters which I have seen, and which I am sorry her too nice delicacy will not permit
to be published. BOSWELL. 'Whilst the company at Mr. Thrale's were speculating upon a microscope
for the mind, Johnson exclaimed:--"I never saw one that would bear it, except that of my dear
Miss Reynolds, and hers is very near to purity itself."' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 80. Once,
said Northcote, there was a coolness between her and her brother. She wished to set forth to
him her grievances in a letter. Not finding it easy to write, she consulted Johnson, 'who offered
to write a letter himself, which when copied should pass as her own.' This he did. It began:
'I am well aware that complaints are always odious, but complain I must.' Such a letter as
this she saw would not pass with Sir Joshua as her own, and so she could not use it. Ib. p.
203. Of Johnson's letters to her Malone published one, and Mr. Croker several more. Mme. D'Arblay,
in the character she draws of her (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, i. 332), says that 'Dr. Johnson tried
in vain to cure her of living in an habitual perplexity of mind and irresolution of conduct,
which to herself was restlessly tormenting, and to all around her was teazingly wearisome.'

[1424] See Appendix C.

[1425] Pr. and Med. p. 61. BOSWELL.

[1426] See ante, p. 346.

[1427] His quarter's pension. See ante, P. 376.

[1428] Mr. Croker, misunderstanding a passage in Hawkins, writes:--'Hawkins says that he disliked
to be called Doctor, as reminding him that he had been a schoolmaster.' What Hawkins really
says (Life, p. 446) is this:--'His attachment to Oxford prevented Johnson from receiving this
honour as it was intended, and he never assumed the title which it conferred. He was as little
pleased to be called Doctor in consequence of it, as he was with the title of Domine, which
a friend of his once incautiously addressed him by. He thought it alluded to his having been
a schoolmaster.' It is clear that 'it' in the last line refers only to the title of Domine.
Murphy (Life, p. 98) says that Johnson never assumed the title of Doctor, till Oxford conferred
on him the degree. Boswell states (post, March 31, 1775, note):--'It is remarkable that he
never, so far as I know, assumed his title of Doctor, but called himself Mr. Johnson.' In this,
as I show there, Boswell seems to be not perfectly accurate. I do not believe Hawkins's assertion
that Johnson 'was little pleased to be called Doctor in consequence of his Dublin degree.'
In Boswell's Hebrides, most of which was read by him before he received his Oxford degree,
he is commonly styled Doctor. Boswell says in a note on Aug. 15, 1773:--'It was some time before
I could bring myself to call him Doctor.' Had Johnson disliked the title it would have been
known to Boswell. Mrs. Thrale, it is true, in her letters' to him, after he had received both
his degrees, commonly speaks of him as Mr. Johnson. We may assume that he valued his Oxford
degree of M.A. more highly than the Dublin degree of LL.D.; for in the third edition of the
Abridgment of his Dictionary, published in 1766, he is styled Samuel Johnson, A.M. In his Lives
of the Poets he calls himself simply Samuel Johnson. He had by that time risen above degrees.
In his Journey to the Hebrides (Works, ix. 14), after stating that 'An English or Irish doctorate
cannot be obtained by a very young man,' he continues:--'It is reasonable to suppose ... that
he who is by age qualified to be a doctor, has in so much time gained learning sufficient not
to disgrace the title, or wit sufficient not to desire it.'

[1429] Trinity College made him, it should seem, Armiger at the same time that it made him
Doctor of Laws.

[1430] See Appendix D for this letter.

[1431] Pr. and Med. p. 66. BOSWELL.

[1432] Single-speech Hamilton, as he was commonly called, though in the House of Commons he
had spoken more than once. For above thirty sessions together, however, he held his tongue.
Prior's Burke, p. 67.

[1433] See Appendix E for an explanation.

[1434] Pr. and Med. p. 67 BOSWELL.

[1435] See Appendix F.

[1436] Mr. Blakeway, in a note on this passage, says:--'The predecessor of old Thrale was Edmund
Halsey, Esq.; the nobleman who married his daughter was Lord Cobham. The family of Thrale was
of some consideration in St. Albans; in the Abbey-church is a handsome monument to the memory
of Mr. John Thrale, late of London, merchant, who died in 1704.' He describes the arms on the
monument. Mr. Hayward, in Mrs. Piozzis Autobiography, i. 9, quotes her marginal note on this
page in Boswell. She says that Edmund Halsey, son of a miller at St. Albans, married the only
daughter of his master, old Child, of the Anchor Brewhouse, Southwark, and succeeded to the
business upon Child's death. 'He sent for one of his sister's sons to London (my Mr. Thrale's
father); said he would make a man of him, and did so; but made him work very hard, and treated
him very roughly.' He left him nothing at his death, and Thrale bought the brewery of Lord
and Lady Cobham.

[1437] See post, under April 4, 1781, and June 16, 1781.

[1438] Mrs. Burney informs me that she heard Dr. Johnson say, 'An English Merchant is a new
species of Gentleman.' He, perhaps, had in his mind the following ingenious passage in The
Conscious Lovers, act iv. scene ii, where Mr. Sealand thus addresses Sir John Bevil: 'Give
me leave to say, that we merchants are a species of gentry that have grown into the world this
last century, and are as honourable, and almost as useful as you landed-folks, that have always
thought yourselves so much above us; for your trading forsooth is extended no farther than
a load of hay, or a fat ox.--You are pleasant people indeed! because you are generally bred
up to be lazy, therefore, I warrant your industry is dishonourable.' BOSWELL.

The Conscious Lovers is by Steele. 'I never heard of any plays fit for a Christian to read,'
said Parson Adams, 'but Cato and The Conscious Lovers; and I must own, in the latter there
are some things almost solemn enough for a sermon.' Joseph Andrews, Book III, chap. xi.

[1439] In the first number of The Hypochondriack Boswell writes:--'It is a saying in feudal
treatises, "Semel Baro semper Baro," "Once a baron always a baron."' London Mag. 1777, p. 493.
He seems of Mr. Thrale's inferiority by speaking of him as Thrale and his house as Thrale's.
See post, April 5 and 12, 1776, April 7, 1778, and under March 30, 1783. He never, I believe,
is thus familiar in the case of Beauclerk, Burke, Langton, and Reynolds.

[1440] For her extraction see Hayward's Mrs. Piozzi, i. 238.

[1441] Miss Burney records in May 1779, how one day at Streatham 'Mr. Murphy met with a very
joyful reception; and Mr. Thrale, for the first time in his life, said he was "a good fellow;"
for he makes it a sort of rule to salute him with the title of "scoundrel," or "rascal." They
are very old friends; and I question if Mr. Thrale loves any man so well.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 210.

[1442] From the Garrick Corres, i. 116, it seems that Murphy introduced Garrick to the Thrales.
He wrote to him on May 13, 1760:--'You stand engaged to Mr. Thrale for Wednesday night. You
need not apprehend drinking; it is a very easy house.'

[1443] Murphy (Life, p. 98) says that Johnson's introduction to the Thrales 'contributed more
than anything else to exempt him from the solicitudes of life.' He continues that 'he looks
back to the share he had in that business with self congratulation, since he knows the tenderness
which from that time soothed Johnson's cares at Streatham, and prolonged a valuable life.'
Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale from Lichfield on July 20, 1767:--'I have found nothing that withdraws
my affections from the friends whom I left behind, or which makes me less desirous of reposing
at that place which your kindness and Mr. Thrale's allows me to call my home.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 4. From Mull, on Oct. 15, 1773, he wrote:--'Having for many weeks had no letter, my longings
are very great to be informed how all things are at home, as you and mistress allow me to call
it.' Ib. p. 166. Miss Burney in 1778 wrote that 'though Dr. Johnson lives almost wholly at
Streatham, he always keeps his apartments in town.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 58. Johnson (Works,
viii. 381) tells how, in the house of Sir Thomas Abney, 'Dr. Watts, with a constancy of friendship
and uniformity of conduct not often to be found, was treated for thirty-six years with all
the kindness that friendship could prompt, and all the attention that respect could dictate.'
He continues:--'A coalition like this, a state in which the notions of patronage and dependence
were overpowered by the perception of reciprocal benefits, deserves a particular memorial.'
It was such a coalition which he formed with the Thrales--a coalition in which, though the
benefits which he received were great, yet those which he conferred were still greater.

[1444] On this Mrs. Piozzi notes:--'No, no! Mr. Thrale's manners presented the character of
a gay man of the town; like Millamant, in Congreve's comedy, he abhorred the country and everything
in it.' Hayward's Piozzi, i. 10. Mrs. Millamant, in The Way of the World, act iv. sc. iv.,
says:--'I loathe the country and everything that relates to it.'

[1445] 'It is but justice to Mr. Thrale to say, that a more ingenuous frame of mind no man
possessed. His education at Oxford gave him the habits of a gentleman; his amiable temper recommended
his conversation, and the goodness of his heart made him a sincere friend.' Murphy's Johnson,
p. 99. Johnson wrote of him to Mrs. Thrale:--'He must keep well, for he is the pillar of the
house; and you must get well, or the house will hardly be worth propping.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 340. See post, April 18, 1778. Mme. D'Arblay (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 104) gives one
reason for Thrale's fondness for Johnson's society. 'Though entirely a man of peace, and a
gentleman in his character, he had a singular amusement in hearing, instigating, and provoking
a war of words, alternating triumph and overthrow, between clever and ambitious colloquial
combatants, where there was nothing that could inflict disgrace upon defeat.'

[1446] In like manner he called Mr. Thrale Master or My master. 'I hope Master's walk will
be finished when I come back.' Piozzi Letters, i. 355. 'My master may plant and dig till his
pond is an ocean.' Ib. p. 357. See post, July 9, 1777.

[1447] Miss Burney thus described her in 1776:--'She is extremely lively and chatty; and showed
none of the supercilious or pedantic airs so scoffingly attributed to women of learning or
celebrity; on the contrary, she is full of sport, remarkably gay, and excessively agreeable.
I liked her in everything except her entrance into the room, which was rather florid and flourishing,
as who should say, "It is I!--No less a person than Mrs. Thrale!" However, all that ostentation
wore out in the course of the visit, which lasted the whole morning; and you could not have
helped liking her, she is so very entertaining-- though not simple enough, I believe, for quite
winning your heart.' Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 88.

[1448] Mrs. Piozzi's Anecdotes, p. 279. BOSWELL.

[1449] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Oct. 13, 1777:--'I cannot but think on your kindness
and my master's. Life has upon the whole fallen short, very short, of my early expectation;
but the acquisition of such a friendship, at an age when new friendships are seldom acquired,
is something better than the general course of things gives man a right to expect. I think
on it with great delight; I am not very apt to be delighted.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 7. Johnson's
friends suffered from this connection. See post, March 20, 1778, where it is said that 'at
Streatham he was in a great measure absorbed from the society of his old friends.'

[1450] Yet one year he recorded:--'March 3, I have never, I thank God, since new year's day
deviated from the practice of rising. In this practice I persisted till I went to Mr. Thrale's
sometime before Midsummer; the irregularity of that family broke my habit of rising. I was
there till after Michaelmas.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 458, note. Hawkins places this in 1765;
but Johnson states (Pr. and Med. p. 71), 'I returned from Streatham, Oct. 1, --66, having lived
there more than three months.'

[1451] Boswell wrote to Temple in 1775:--'I am at present in a tourbillon of conversations;
but how come you to throw in the Thrales among the Reynoldses and the Beauclerks? Mr. Thrale
is a worthy, sensible man, and has the wits much about his house; but he is not one himself.
Perhaps you mean Mrs. Thrale.' Letters of Boswell, p. 192. Murphy (Life, p. 141) says:--'It
was late in life before Johnson had the habit of mixing, otherwise than occasionally, with
polite company. At Mr. Thrale's he saw a constant succession of well-accomplished visitors.
In that society he began to wear off the rugged points of his own character. The time was then
expected when he was to cease being what George Garrick, brother to the celebrated actor, called
him the first time he heard him converse. "A TREMENDOUS COMPANION"'

[1452] Johnson wrote to Dr. Warton on Oct. 9:--'Mrs. Warton uses me hardly in supposing that
I could forget so much kindness and civility as she showed me at Winchester.' Wooll's Warton,
p. 309. Malone on this remarks:--'It appears that Johnson spent some time with that gentleman
at Winchester in this year.' I believe that Johnson is speaking of the year 1762, when, on
his way to Devonshire, he passed two nights in that town. See Taylor's Reynolds, i. 214.

[1453] It was in 1745 that he published his Observations on Macbeth, as a specimen of his projected
edition (ante, p. 175). In 1756 he issued Proposals undertaking that his work should be published
before Christmas, 1757 (p. 318). On June 21, 1757, he writes:--'I am printing my new edition
of Shakspeare' (p. 322). On Dec. 24 of the same year he says, 'I shall publish about March'
(p. 323). On March 8, 1758, he writes:--'It will be published before summer.... I have printed
many of the plays' (p. 327). In June of the same year Langton took some of the plays to Oxford
(p. 336). Churchill's Ghost (Parts 1 and 2) was published in the spring of 1762 (p. 319). On
July 20, 1762, Johnson wrote to Baretti, 'I intend that you shall soon receive Shakspeare'
(p. 369). In October 1765 it was published.

[1454] According to Mr. Seward (Anec. ii. 464), 'Adam Smith styled it the most manly piece
of criticism that was ever published in any country.'

[1455] George III, at all events, did not share in this blind admiration. 'Was there ever,'
cried he, 'such stuff as great part of Shakespeare? only one must not say so. But what think
you? What? Is there not sad stuff? What? What?' 'Yes, indeed, I think so, Sir, though mixed
with such excellencies that--' 'O!' cried he, laughing good-humouredly, 'I know it is not to
be said! but it's true. Only it's Shakespeare, and nobody dare abuse him.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, ii, 398.

[1456] That Johnson did not slur his work, as has been often said, we have the best of all
evidence--his own word. 'I have, indeed,' he writes (Works, v. 152), 'disappointed no opinion
more than my own; yet I have endeavoured to perform my task with no slight solicitude. Not
a single passage in the whole work has appeared to me corrupt which I have not attempted to
restore; or obscure which I have not attempted to illustrate.'

[1457] Steevens wrote to Garrick:--'To say the truth, the errors of Warburton and Johnson are
often more meritorious than such corrections of them as the obscure industry of Mr. Farmer
and myself can furnish. Disdaining crutches, they have sometimes had a fall; but it is my duty
to remember, that I, for my part, could not have kept on my legs at all without them.' Garrick
Corres. ii, 130. 'Johnson's preface and notes are distinguished by clearness of thought and
diction, and by masterly common sense.' Cambridge Shakespeare, i. xxxvi.

[1458] Kenrick later on was the gross libeller of Goldsmith, and the far grosser libeller of
Garrick. 'When proceedings were commenced against him in the Court of King's Bench [for the
libel on Garrick], he made at once the most abject submission and retractation.' Prior's Goldsmith,
i. 294. In the Garrick Carres, (ii. 341) is a letter addressed to Kenrick, in which Garrick
says:--'I could have honoured you by giving the satisfaction of a gentleman, if you could (as
Shakespeare says) have screwed your courage to the sticking place, to have taken it.' It is
endorsed:--'This was not sent to the scoundrel Dr. Kenrick.... It was judged best not to answer
any more of Dr. Kenrick's notes, he had behaved so unworthily.'

[1459] Ephraim Chambers, in the epitaph that he made for himself (ante, p. 219), had described
himself as multis pervulgatus paucis notus.' Gent. Mag. x. 262.

[1460] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 1, 1773.

[1461] Johnson had joined Voltaire with Dennis and Rymer. 'Dennis and Rymer think Shakespeare's
Romans not sufficiently Roman; and Voltaire censures his kings as not completely royal. Dennis
is offended that Menenius, a senator of Rome, should play the buffoon; and Voltaire, perhaps,
thinks decency violated when the Danish usurper is represented as a drunkard. But Shakespeare
always makes nature predominate over accident.... His story requires Romans or kings, but he
thinks only on men. He knew that Rome, like every other city, had men of all dispositions;
and wanting a buffoon, he went into the senate-house for that which the senate-house would
certainly have afforded him. He was inclined to show an usurper and a murderer, not only odious,
but despicable; he therefore added drunkenness to his other qualities, knowing that kings love
wine like other men, and that wine exerts its natural power upon kings. These are the petty
cavils of petty minds; a poet overlooks the casual distinction of country and condition, as
a painter, satisfied with the figure, neglects the drapery.' Johnson's Works, v. 109. Johnson
had previously attacked Voltaire, in his Memoirs of Frederick the Great. (Ante, i. 435, note
2.) In these Memoirs he writes:--'Voltaire has asserted that a large sum was raised for her
[the Queen of Hungary's] succour by voluntary subscriptions of the English ladies. It is the
great failing of a strong imagination to catch greedily at wonders. He was misinformed, and
was perhaps unwilling to learn, by a second enquiry, a truth less splendid and amusing.' Ib.
vi. 455. See post, Oct. 27, 1779.

[1462] 'Voltaire replied in the Dictionnaire Philosophique. (Works, xxxiii. 566.) 'J'ai jete
les yeux sur une edition de Shakespeare, donnee par le sieur Samuel Johnson. J'y ai vu qu'on
y traite de petits esprits les etrangers qui sont etonnes que dans les pieces de ce grand Shakespeare
un senateur romain fasse le bouffon; et gu'un roi paraisse sur le theatre en ivrogne. Je ne
veux point soupconner le sieur Johnson d'etre un mauvais plaisant, et d'aimer trop le vin;
mais je trouve un peu extraordinaire qu'il compte la bouffonnerie et l'ivrognerie parmi les
beautes du theatre tragique; la raison qu'il en donne n'est pas moins singuliere. Le poete,
dit-il, dedaigne ces distinctions accidentelles de conditions et de pays, comme un peintre
qui, content d'avoir peint la figure, neglige la draperie. La comparaison serait plus juste,
s'il parlait d'un peintre qui, dans un sujet noble, introduirait des grotesques ridicules,
peindrait dans la bataille d'Arbelles Alexandre-le Grand monte sur un ane, et la femme de Darius
buvant avec des goujats dans un cabaret.' Johnson, perhaps, had this attack in mind when, in
his Life of Pope (Works, viii. 275), he thus wrote of Voltaire:--'He had been entertained by
Pope at his table, when he talked with so much grossness, that Mrs. Pope was driven from the
room. Pope discovered by a trick that he was a spy for the court, and never considered him
as a man worthy of confidence.'

[1463] See post, under May 8, 1781.

[1464] See post, ii. 74.

[1465] He was probably proposing to himself the model of this excellent person, who for his
piety was named the Seraphic Doctor. BOSWELL.

[1466]

'E'en in a bishop I can spy desert, Secker is decent, Rundel has a heart.'

Pope. Epil, Sat. II. 70.

[1467] So Smollett calls him in his History of England, iii. 16.

[1468] Six of these twelve guineas Johnson appears to have borrowed from Mr. Allen, the printer.
See Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 366 n. MALONE.

[1469] Written by mistake for 1759. On the outside of the letter of the 13th was written by
another hand--'Pray acknowledge the receipt of this by return of post, without fail.' MALONE.

[1470] Catherine Chambers, Mrs. Johnson's maid-servant. She died in October, 1767. MALONE.
See post, ii. 43.

[1471] This letter was written on the second leaf of the preceding, addressed to Miss Porter.
MALONE.

[1472] Mrs. Johnson probably died on the 20th or 21st January, and was buried on the day this
letter was written. MALONE. On the day on which his mother was buried Johnson composed a prayer,
as being 'now about to return to the common comforts and business of the world.' Pr. and Med.
p. 38. After his wife''s death he had allowed forty days to pass before his 'return to life.'
See ante, p. 234, note 2.

[1473] See ante, p. 80.

[1474] Barnaby Greene had just published The Laureat, a Poem, in which Johnson is abused. It
is in the February list of books in the Gent. Mag. for 1765.

[1475] Sir Cloudesly Shovel's monument is thus mentioned by Addison in The Spectator, No. 26:--'It
has very often given me great offence; instead of the brave rough English Admiral, which was
the distinguishing character of that plain gallant man, he is represented on his tomb by the
figure of a beau, dressed in a long periwig, and reposing himself upon velvet cushions under
a canopy of state.'

[1476]

'That live-long wig, which Gorgon's self might own, Eternal buckle takes in Parian stone.'

Pope's Moral Essays, iii. 295.

[1477] Milton's Epigram is in his Sylvarum Liber, and is entitled In Effigiei ejus Sculptorem.

[1478] Johnson's acquaintance, Bishop Newton (post, June 3, 1784), published an edition of Milton.

[1479] It was no doubt by the Master of Emanuel College, his friend Dr. Farmer (ante, p. 368),
that Johnson was promised 'an habitation' there.

THE END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

