LETTERS

OF

HORACE WALPOLE

SELECTED AND EDITED BY

CHARLES DUKE YONGE, M.A.

AUTHOR OF "THE HISTORY OF FRANCE UNDER THE BOURBONS," "A LIFE OF MARIE ANTOINETTE," ETC., ETC.

WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS

VOLUME I

London

T. FISHER UNWIN

PATERNOSTER SQUARE

NEW YORK: G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS

MDCCCXC

CONTENTS.

1736-1764.

1. TO MONTAGU, May 2, 1736.--Marriage of the Princess of Wales--Very lively

2. TO THE SAME, May 6, 1736.--Fondness for Old Stories--Reminiscences of Eton, etc.

3. TO THE SAME, March 20, 1737.--Wish to Travel--Superiority of French Manners to English in
their manner to Ladies

4. TO WEST, April 21, 1739.--Theatres at Paris--St. Denis--Fondness of the French for Show,
and for Gambling--Singular Signs--The Army the only Profession for Men of Gentle Birth--Splendour
of the Public Buildings

5. TO THE SAME, 1739.--Magnificence of Versailles--The Chartreux Relics

6. TO THE SAME, February 27, 1740.--The Carnival--The Florentines Civil, Good-natured, and
Fond of the English--A Curious Challenge

7. TO THE SAME, June 14, 1740.--Herculaneum--Search should be made for other Submerged Cities--Quotations
from Statius

8. TO CONWAY, July 5, 1740.--Danger of Malaria--Roman Catholic Relics--"Admiral Hosier's Ghost"--Contest
for the Popedom

9. TO THE SAME, July 9, 1740

10. TO WEST, Oct. 2, 1740.--A Florentine Wedding--Addison's Descriptions are Borrowed from
Books--A Song of Bondelmonti's, with a Latin Version by Gray, and an English One by the Writer

11. TO MANN, Jan. 22, 1742.--Debate on Pulteney's Motion for a Committee on Papers Relating
to the War--Speeches of Pulteney, Pitt, Sir R. Walpole, Sir W. George, etc.--Smallness of the
Ministerial Majority

12. TO THE SAME, May 26, 1742.--Ranelagh Gardens Opened--Garrick, "A Wine-merchant turned Player"--Defeat
of the Indemnity Bill

13. TO THE SAME, Dec. 9, 1742.--Debate on Disbanding the Hanoverian Troops--First Speech of
Murray (afterwards Earl of Mansfield)--Bon Mot of Lord Chesterfield

14. TO THE SAME, Feb. 24, 1743.--King Theodore--Handel Introduces Oratorios

15. TO THE SAME, July 4, 1743.--Battle of Dettingen--Death of Lord Wilmington

16. TO THE SAME, Sept. 7, 1743.--French Actors at Clifden--A new Roman Catholic Miracle--Lady
Mary Wortley

17. TO THE SAME, March 29, 1745.--Death of his Father--Matthews and Lestock in the Mediterranean--Thomson's
"Tancred and Sigismunda"--Akenside's Odes--Conundrums in Fashion

18. TO THE SAME, May 11, 1745.--Battle of Fontenoy--The Ballad of the Prince of Wales

19. TO MONTAGU, August 1, 1745.--M. De Grignan--Livy's Patavinity--The Maréchal De Belleisle--Whiston
Prophecies the Destruction of the World--The Duke of Newcastle

20. TO MANN, Sept. 6, 1745.--Invasion of Scotland by the Young Pretender--Forces are said to
be Preparing in France to join him

21. TO THE SAME, Sept. 20, 1745.--This and the following Letters give a Lively Account of the
Progress of the Rebellion till the Retreat from Derby, after which no particular interest attaches
to it

22. TO THE SAME, Sept. 27, 1745.--Defeat of Cope

23. TO THE SAME, Oct. 21, 1745.--General Wade is Marching to Scotland--Violent Proclamation
of the Pretender

24. TO THE SAME, Nov. 22, 1745.--Gallant Resistance of Carlisle--Mr. Pitt attacks the Ministry

25. TO THE SAME, Dec. 9, 1745.--The Rebel Army has Retreated from Derby--Expectation of a French
Invasion

26. TO THE SAME, April 25, 1746.--Battle of Culloden

27. TO THE SAME, Aug. 1, 1746.--Trial of the Rebel Lords Balmerino and Kilmarnock

28. TO THE SAME, Oct. 14, 1746.--The Battle of Rancoux

29. TO CONWAY, Oct. 24, 1746.--On Conway's Verses--No Scotchman is capable of such Delicacy
of Thought, though a Scotchwoman may be--Akenside's, Armstrong's, and Glover's Poems

30. TO THE SAME, June 8, 1747.--He has bought Strawberry Hill

31. TO THE SAME, Aug. 29, 1748.--His Mode of Life--Planting--Prophecies of New Methods and
New Discoveries in a Future Generation

32. TO MANN, May 3, 1749.--Rejoicings for the Peace--Masquerade at Ranelagh--Meeting of the
Prince's Party and the Jacobites--Prevalence of Drinking and Gambling--Whitefield

33. TO THE SAME, March 11, 1750.--Earthquake in London--General Panic--Marriage of Casimir,
King of Poland

34. TO THE SAME, April 2, 1750.--General Panic--Sherlock's Pastoral Letter--Predictions of
more Earthquakes--A General Flight from London--Epigrams by Chute and Walpole himself--French
Translation of Milton

35. TO THE SAME, April 1, 1751.--Death of Walpole's Brother, and of the Prince of Wales--Speech
of the young Prince--Singular Sermon on His Death

36. TO THE SAME, June 18, 1751.--Changes in the Ministry and Household--The Miss Gunnings--Extravagance
in London--Lord Harcourt, Governor of the Prince of Wales

37. TO THE SAME, June 12, 1753.--Description of Strawberry Hill--Bill to Prevent Clandestine
Marriages

38. TO MONTAGU, May 19, 1756.--No News from France but what is Smuggled--The King's Delight
at the Vote for the Hanover Troops--Bon Mot of Lord Denbigh

39. TO THE SAME, Oct. 17, 1756.--Victory of the King of Prussia at Lowositz--Singular Race--Quarrel
of the Pretender with the Pope

40. TO THE SAME, Nov. 4, 1756.--Ministerial Negotiations--Loss of Minorca--Disaster in North
America

41. TO THE EARL OF STRAFFORD, July 4, 1757.--The King of Prussia's Victories--Voltaire's "Universal
History"

42. TO ZOUCH, August 3, 1758.--His own "Royal and Noble Authors"

43. TO THE SAME, Oct. 21, 1758.--His "Royal and Noble Authors"--Lord Clarendon--Sir R. Walpole
and Lord Bolingbroke--The Duke of Leeds

44. TO MANN, Oct. 24, 1758.--Walpole's Monument to Sir Horace's Brother--Attempted Assassination
of the King of Portugal--Courtesy of the Duc D'Aiguillon to his English Prisoners

45. TO ZOUCH, Dec. 9, 1758.--A New Edition of Lucan--Comparison of "Pharsalea"--Criticism on
the Poet, with the Aeneid--Helvetius's Work, "De L'Esprit"

46. TO CONWAY, Jan. 19, 1759.--State of the House of Commons

47. TO DALRYMPLE, Feb. 25, 1759.--Robertson's "History of Scotland"--Comparison of Ramsay and
Reynolds as Portrait-Painters--Sir David's "History of the Gowrie Conspiracy"

48. TO THE SAME, July 11, 1759.--Writers of History: Goodall, Hume, Robertson--Queen Christina

49. TO CONWAY, Aug. 14, 1759.--The Battle of Minden--Lord G. Sackville

50. TO MANN, Sept. 13, 1759.--Admiral Boscawen's Victory--Defeat of the King of Prussia--Lord
G. Sackville

51. TO MONTAGU, Oct. 21, 1759.--A Year of Triumphs

52. TO THE SAME, Nov. 8, 1759.--French Bankruptcy--French Epigram

53. TO THE SAME, Jan. 7, 1760.--He lives amongst Royalty--Commotions in Ireland

54. TO THE SAME, Jan. 14, 1760.--Severity of the Weather--Scarcity in Germany--A Party at Prince
Edward's--Charles Townsend's Comments on La Fontaine

55. TO MANN, Feb. 28, 1760.--Capture of Carrickfergus

56. TO DALRYMPLE, April 4, 1760.--The Ballad of "Hardyknute"--Mr. Home's "Siege of Aquileia"--"Tristram
Shandy"--Bishop Warburton's Praise of it

57. TO THE SAME, June 20, 1760.--Erse Poetry--"The Dialogues of the Dead"--"The Complete Angler"

58. TO MONTAGU, Sept. 1, 1760.--Visits in the Midland Counties--Whichnovre--Sheffield--The
new Art of Plating--Chatsworth--Haddon Hall--Hardwicke--Apartments of Mary Queen of Scots--Newstead--Althorp

59. TO THE SAME, April 16, 1761.--Gentleman's Dress--Influence of Lord Bute--Ode by Lord Middlesex--G.
Selwyn's Quotation

60. TO THE SAME, May 5, 1761.--Capture of Belleisle--Gray's Poems--Hogarth's Vanity

61. TO THE SAME, May 22, 1761.--Intended Marriage of the King--Battles in Germany--Capture
of Pondicherry--Burke

62. TO MANN, Sept. 10, 1761.--Arrival of the Princess of Mecklenburgh--The Royal Wedding--The
Queen's Appearance and Behaviour

63. TO THE COUNTESS OF AILESBURY, Sept. 27, 1761.--The Coronation and subsequent Gaieties

64. TO THE SAME, Nov. 28, 1761.--A Court Ball--Pamphlets on Mr. Pitt--A Song by Gray

65. TO MANN, Jan. 29, 1762.--Death of the Czarina Elizabeth--The Cock-lane Ghost--Return to
England of Lady Mary Wortley

66. TO ZOUCH, March 20, 1762.--His own "Anecdotes of Painting"--His Picture of the Wedding
of Henry VII.--Burnet's Comparison of Tiberius and Charles II.--Addison's "Travels"

67. TO MANN, Aug. 12, 1762.--Birth of the Prince of Wales--The Czarina--Voltaire's Historical
Criticisms--Immense Value of the Treasures brought over in the Hermione

68. TO CONWAY, Sept. 9, 1762.--Negotiations for Peace--Christening of the Prince of Wales

69. TO MANN, Oct. 3, 1762.--Treasures from the Havannah--The Royal Visit to Eton--Death of
Lady Mary--Concealment of Her Works--Voltaire's "Universal History"

70. TO THE SAME, April 30, 1763.--Resignation of Lord Bute--French Visitors--Walpole and No. 45

71. TO MONTAGU, May 17, 1763.--A Party at "Straberri"--Work of his Printing Press--Epigrams--A
Garden Party at Esher

72. TO CONWAY, May 21, 1763.--General Character of the French--Festivities on the Queen's Birthday

73. TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD, Dec. 29, 1763.--The ordinary way of Life in England--Wilkes--C.
Townshend--Count Lally--Lord Clive--Lord Northington--Louis Le Bien Aimé--The Drama in France

74. TO MONTAGU, Jan.11, 1764.--A New Year's Party at Lady Suffolk's--Lady Temple, Poetess Laureate
to the Muses

75. TO MANN, Jan. 18, 1764.--Marriage of the Prince of Brunswick: His Popularity

76. TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD, Feb. 6, 1764.--Gambling Quarrels--Mr. Conway's Speech

77. TO THE SAME, Feb. 15, 1764.--Account of the Debate on the General Warrant

78. TO MANN, June 8, 1764.--Lord Clive--Mr. Hamilton, Ambassador to Naples--Speech of Louis XV.

79. TO THE SAME, Aug. 13, 1764.--The King of Poland--Catherine of Russia

80. TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD, Oct. 5, 1764.--Madame De Boufflers' Writings--King James's Journal

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

I. HORACE WALPOLE

From an engraving after a sketch by Sir THOS. LAWRENCE, P.R.A.

II. SIR HORACE MANN

III. STRAWBERRY HILL, FROM THE SOUTH-EAST

IV. GEORGE MONTAGU

V. THE LIBRARY, STRAWBERRY HILL

VI. HORACE WALPOLE

From a picture in the National Portrait Gallery, by NATHANIEL HONE, R.A.

INTRODUCTION.

It is creditable to our English nobility, and a feature in their character that distinguishes
them from their fellows of most other nations, that, from the first revival of learning, the
study of literature has been extensively cultivated by men of high birth, even by many who
did not require literary fame to secure them a lasting remembrance; and they have not contented
themselves with showing their appreciation of intellectual excellence by their patronage of
humbler scholars, but have themselves afforded examples to other labourers in the hive, taking
upon themselves the toils, and earning no small nor undeserved share of the honours of authorship.
The very earliest of our poets, Chaucer, must have been a man of gentle birth, since he was
employed on embassies of importance, and was married to the daughter of a French knight of
distinction, and sister of the Duchess of Lancaster. The long civil wars of the fifteenth century
prevented his having any immediate followers; but the sixteenth opened more propitiously. The
conqueror of Flodden was also "Surrey of the deathless lay";[1] and from his time to the present
day there is hardly a break in the long line of authors who have shown their feeling that noble
birth and high position are no excuses for idleness, but that the highest rank gains additional
illustration when it is shown to be united with brilliant talents worthily exercised. The earliest
of our tragic poets was Sackville Earl of Dorset. The preux chevalier of Elizabeth's Court,
the accomplished and high-minded Sidney, took up the lyre of Surrey: Lord St. Albans, more
generally known by his family name of Bacon, "took all learning for his province"; and, though
peaceful studies were again for a while rudely interrupted by the "dark deeds of horrid war,"
the restoration of peace was, as it had been before, a signal for the resumption of their studies
by many of the best-born of the land. Another Earl of Dorset displayed his hereditary talent
not less than his martial gallantry. Lord Roscommon well deserved the praises which Dryden
and Pope, after his death, liberally bestowed. The great Lord Chancellor Clarendon devoted
his declining years to a work of a grander class, leaving us a History which will endure as
long as the language itself; while ladies of the very highest rank, the Duchess of Newcastle
and Lady Mary Wortley Montague, vindicated the claims of their sex to share with their brethren
the honours of poetical fame.

[Footnote 1: "Lay of the Last Minstrel," vi. 14.]

Among this noble and accomplished brotherhood the author of these letters is by general consent
allowed to be entitled to no low place. Horace Walpole, born in the autumn of 1717, was the
youngest son of that wise minister, Sir Robert Walpole, who, though, as Burke afterwards described
him, "not a genius of the first class," yet by his adoption of, and resolute adherence to a
policy of peace throughout the greater part of his administration, in which he was fortunately
assisted by the concurrence of Fleury of France, contributed in no slight degree to the permanent
establishment of the present dynasty on the throne. He received his education at the greatest
of English schools, Eton, to which throughout his life he preserved a warm attachment; and
where he gave a strong indication of his preference for peaceful studies and his judicious
appreciation of intellectual ability, by selecting as his most intimate friend Thomas Gray,
hereafter to achieve a poetical immortality by the Bard and the Elegy. From Eton they both
went to Cambridge, and, when they quitted the University, in 1738, joined in a travelling tour
through France and Italy. They continued companions for something more than two years; but
at the end of that time they separated, and in the spring of 1741 Gray returned to England.
The cause of their parting was never distinctly avowed; Walpole took the blame, if blame there
was, on himself; but, in fact, it probably lay in an innate difference of disposition, and
consequently of object. Walpole being fond of society, and, from his position as the Minister's
son, naturally courted by many of the chief men in the different cities which they visited;
while Gray was of a reserved character shunning the notice of strangers, and fixing his attention
on more serious subjects than Walpole found attractive.

In the autumn of the same year Walpole himself returned home. He had become a member of Parliament
at the General Election in the summer, and took his seat just in time to bear a part in the
fierce contest which terminated in the dissolution of his father's Ministry. His maiden speech,
almost the only one he ever made, was in defence of the character and policy of his father,
who was no longer in the House of Commons to defend himself.[1] And the result of the conflict
made no slight impression on his mind; but gave a colour to all his political views.

He began almost immediately to come forward as an author: not, however, as--

    Obliged by hunger and request of friends;

for in his circumstances he was independent, and even opulent; but seeking to avenge his father
by squibs on Mr. Pulteney (now Lord Bath), as having been the leader of the attacks on him,
and on the new Ministry which had succeeded him. In one respect that age was a happy one for
ministers and all connected with them. Pensions and preferments were distributed with a lavish
hand; and, even while he was a schoolboy, he had received more than one "patent place," as
such were called, in the Exchequer, to which before his father's resignation others were added,
which after a time raised his income to above £5,000 a year, a fortune which in those times
was exceeded by comparatively few, even of those regarded as wealthy. So rich, indeed, was
he, that before he was thirty he was able to buy Strawberry Hill, "a small house near Twickenham,"
as he describes it at first, but which he gradually enlarged and embellished till it grew into
something of a baronial castle on a small scale, somewhat as, under the affectionate diligence
of a greater man, Abbotsford in the present century became one of the lions of the Tweed.

[Footnote 1: The speech was made March 23, 1742; but Sir Robert had resigned office, and been
created Earl of Orford in the February preceding.]

From this time forth literary composition, with the acquisition of antiques and curiosities
for the decoration of "Strawberry" occupied the greater part of his life. He erected a printing
press, publishing not only most of his own writings, but some also of other authors, such as
poems of Gray, with whom he kept up uninterrupted intercourse. But, in fact, his own works
were sufficiently numerous to keep his printers fully employed. He was among the most voluminous
writers of a voluminous age. In the course of the next twenty years he published seven volumes
of memoirs of the last ten years of the reign of George II. and the first ten of George III.;
five volumes of a work entitled "Royal and Noble Authors;" several more of "Anecdotes of Painting;"
"The Mysterious Mother," a tragedy; "The Castle of Otranto," a romance; and a small volume
to which he gave the name of "Historic Doubts on Richard III." Of all these not one is devoid
of merit. He more than once explains that the "Memoirs" have no claim to the more respectable
title of "History"; and he apologises for introducing anecdotes which might be thought inconsistent
with what Macaulay brands as "a vile phrase," the dignity of history. He excuses this, which
he looked on as a new feature in historical composition, on the ground that, if trifles, "they
are trifles relating to considerable people; such as all curious people have ever loved to
read." "Such trifles," he says, "are valued, if relating to any reign one hundred and fifty
years ago; and, if his book should live so long, these too might become acceptable." Readers
of the present day will not think such apology was needed. The value of his "trifles" has been
proved in a much shorter time; for there is no subsequent historian of that period who has
not been indebted to him for many particulars of which no other trustworthy record existed.
Walpole had in a great degree a historical mind; and perhaps there are few works which show
a keener critical insight into the value of old traditions than the "Historic Doubts," directed
to establish, not, indeed, Richard's innocence of the crimes charged against him, but the fact
that, with respect to many of them, his guilt has never been proved by any evidence which is
not open to the gravest impeachment. His "Royal and Noble Authors," and his "Anecdotes of Painting"
are full of entertainment, not unmixed with instruction. "The Mysterious Mother" was never
performed on the stage, nor is it calculated for representation; since he himself admits that
the subject is disgusting. But dramas not intended for representation, and which therefore
should perhaps be more fitly called dramatic poems, were a species of composition to which
more than one writer of reputation had lately begun to turn their attention; though dramas
not designed for the stage seem to most readers defective in their very conception, as lacking
the stimulus which the intention of submitting them to the extemporaneous ocular judgement
of the public can alone impart. Among such works, however, "The Mysterious Mother" is admitted
to rank high for vigorous description and poetic imagery. A greater popularity, which even
at the present day has not wholly passed away, since it is still occasionally reprinted, was
achieved by "The Castle of Otranto," which, as he explains it in one of his letters, owed its
origin to a dream. Novels had been a branch of literature which had slumbered for several years
after the death of Defoe, but which the genius of Fielding and Smollett had again brought into
fashion. But their tales purported to be pictures of the manners of the day. This was rather
the forerunner of Mrs. Radcliffe's[1] weird tales of supernatural mystery, which for a time
so engrossed the public attention as to lead that "wicked wag," Mr. George Coleman, to regard
them as representatives of the class, and to describe how--

    A novel now is nothing more
    Than an old castle and a creaking door;
         A distant hovel;
    Clanking of chains, a gallery, a light,
    Old armour, and a phantom all in white,
         And there's a novel.

[Footnote 1: "'The Castle of Otranto' was the father of that marvellous series which once overstocked
the circulating library, and closed with Mrs. Radcliffe."--D'Israeli, "Curiosities of Literature,"
ii. 115.]

He had published it anonymously as a tale that had been found in the library of an ancient
family in the North of England; but it was not indebted solely to the mystery of its authorship
for its favourable reception--since, after he acknowledged it as his own work in a second edition,
the sale did not fall off. And it deserved success, for, though the day had passed when even
the most credulous could place any faith in swords that required a hundred men to lift, and
helmets which could only fit the champion whose single strength could wield such a weapon,
the style was lively and attractive, and the dialogue was eminently dramatic and sparkling.

But the interest of all these works has passed away. The "Memoirs" have served their turn as
a guide and aid to more regular historians, and the composition which still keeps its author's
fame alive is his Correspondence with some of his numerous friends, male and female, in England
or abroad, which he maintained with an assiduity which showed how pleasurable he found the
task, while the care with which he secured the preservation of his letters, begging his correspondents
to retain them, in case at any future time he should desire their return, proves that he anticipated
the possibility that they might hereafter be found interesting by other readers than to those
to whom they were addressed.

But he did not suffer either his writings or the enrichment of "Strawberry" with antiquarian
treasures to engross the whole of his attention. For the first thirty years and more of his
public life he was a zealous politician. And it is no slight proof how high was the reputation
for sagacity and soundness of judgement which he enjoyed, that in the ministerial difficulties
caused by Lord Chatham's illness, he was consulted by the leaders of more than one section
of the Whig party, by Conway, the Duke of Bedford, the Duke of Grafton, Lord Holland, and others;
that his advice more than once influenced their determinations; and that he himself drew more
than one of the letters which passed between them. Even the King himself was not ignorant of
the weight he had in their counsels, and, on one occasion at least, condescended to avail himself
of it for a solution of some of the embarrassments with which their negotiations were beset.

But after a time his attendance in Parliament, which had never been very regular, grew wearisome
and distasteful to him. At the General Election of 1768 he declined to offer himself again
as a candidate for Lynn, which he had represented for several years. And henceforth his mornings
were chiefly occupied with literature; the continuation of his Memoirs; discussion of literary
subjects with Gibbon, Voltaire, Mason, and others, while his evenings were passed in the society
of his friends, a mode of enjoying his time in which he was eminently calculated to shine,
since abundant testimony has come down to us from many competent judges of the charm of his
conversation; the liveliness of his disposition acting as a most attractive frame to the extent
and variety of his information.

Among his distractions were his visits to France, which for some time were frequent. He had
formed a somewhat singular intimacy with a blind old lady, the Marquise du Deffand, a lady
whose character in her youth had been something less than doubtful, since she had been one
of the Regent Duc d'Orléans's numerous mistresses; but who had retained in her old age much
of the worldly acuteness and lively wit with which she had borne her part in that clever, shameless
society. Her salon was now the resort of many personages of the highest distinction, even of
ladies themselves of the most unstained reputation, such as the Duchesse de Choiseul; and the
rumours or opinions which he heard in their company enabled him to enrich his letters to his
friends at home with comments on the conduct of the French Parliament, of Maupéon, Maurepas,
Turgot, and the King himself, which, in many instances, attest the shrewdness with which he
estimated the real bearing of the events which were taking place, and anticipated the possible
character of some of those which were not unlikely to ensue.

Thus, with a mind which, to the end, was so active and so happily constituted as to be able
to take an interest in everything around him, and, even when more than seventy years old, to
make new friends to replace those who had dropped off, he passed a long, a happy, and far from
an useless life. When he was seventy-four he succeeded to his father's peerage, on the death
of his elder brother; but he did not long enjoy the title, by which, indeed, he was not very
careful to be distinguished, and in the spring of 1797 he died, within a few months of his
eightieth birthday.

A great writer of the last generation, whose studies were of a severer cast, and who, conscious
perhaps of his own unfitness to shine at the tea-table of fashionable ladies, was led by that
feeling to undervalue the lighter social gifts which formed conspicuous ingredients in Walpole's
character, has denounced him not only as frivolous in his tastes, but scarcely above mediocrity
in his abilities (a sentence to which Scott's description of him as "a man of great genius"
may be successfully opposed); and is especially severe on what he terms his affectation in
disclaiming the compliments bestowed on his learning by some of his friends. The expressed
estimate of his acquirements and works which so offended Lord Macaulay was that "there is nobody
so superficial, that, except a little history, a little poetry, a little painting, and some
divinity, he knew nothing; he had always lived in the busy world; had always loved pleasure;
played loo till two or three in the morning; haunted auctions--in short, did not know so much
astronomy as would carry him to Knightsbridge; not more physic than a physician; nor, in short,
anything that is called science. If it were not that he laid up a little provision in summer,
like the ant, he should be as ignorant as the people he lived with."[1] In Lord Macaulay's
view, Walpole was never less sincere than when pronouncing such a judgement on his works. He
sees in it nothing but an affectation, fishing for further praises; and, fastening on his account
of his ordinary occupations, he pronounces that a man of fifty should be ashamed of playing
loo till after midnight.

[Footnote 1: Letter to Mann, Feb. 6, 1760.]

In spite, however, of Lord Macaulay's reproof, something may be said in favour of a man who,
after giving his mornings to works which display no little industry as well as talent, unbent
his bow in the evening at lively supper-parties, or even at the card-table with fair friends,
where the play never degenerated into gambling. And his disparagement of his learning, which
Lord Macaulay ridicules as affectation, a more candid judgement may fairly ascribe to sincere
modesty. For it is plain from many other passages in his letters, that he really did undervalue
his own writings; and that the feeling which he thus expressed was genuine is to a great extent
proved by the patience, if not thankfulness, with which he allowed his friend Mann to alter
passages in "The Mysterious Mother," and confessed the alterations to be improvements.

Of these letters it remains for us now to speak. The value of such pour servir, to borrow a
French expression, that is to say, to serve as materials to supply the historian of a nation
or an age with an acquaintance with events, or persons, or manners, which would be sought for
in vain among Parliamentary records, or ministerial despatches, has long been recognised.[1]
Two thousand years ago, those of the greatest of Roman orators and statesmen were carefully
preserved; and modern editors do not fear to claim for them a place "among the most valuable
of all the remains of Roman literature; the specimens which they give of familiar intercourse,
and of the public and private manners of society, drawing up for us the curtain from scenes
of immense historical interest, and laying open the secret workings, the complications, and
schemes of a great revolution period."[2] Such a description is singularly applicable to the
letters of Walpole; and the care which he took for their preservation shows that he was not
without a hope that they also would be regarded as interesting and valuable by future generations.
He praises one of his correspondents for his diligence in collecting and publishing a volume
of letters belonging to the reigns of James I. and Charles I., on the express ground that "nothing
gives so just an idea of an age as genuine letters; nay, history waits for its last seal from
them." And it is not too much to say that they are superior to journals and diaries as a mine
to be worked by the judicious historian; while to the general public they will always be more
attractive, from the scope they afford to elegance of style, at which the diary-keeper does
not aim; and likewise from their frequently recording curious incidents, fashions, good sayings,
and other things which, from their apparently trifling character, the grave diarist would not
think worth preserving.

[Footnote 1: D'Israeli has remarked that "the gossiping of a profound politician, or a vivacious
observer, in one of their letters, often by a spontaneous stroke reveals the individual, or
by a simple incident unriddles a mysterious event;" and proceeds to quote Bolingbroke's estimate
of the importance, from this point of view, of "that valuable collection of Cardinal d'Ossat's
Memoirs" ("Curiosities of Literature," iii. p. 381).]

[Footnote 2: The Rev. J.E. Yonge, Preface to an edition of "Cicero's Letters."]

He, however, was not the first among the moderns to achieve a reputation by his correspondence.
In the generation before his birth, a French lady, Madame de Sévigné, had, with an affectionate
industry, found her chief occupation and pleasure in keeping her daughters in the provinces
fully acquainted with every event which interested or entertained Louis XIV. and his obsequious
Court; and in the first years of the eighteenth century a noble English lady, whom we have
already mentioned, did in like manner devote no small portion of her time to recording, for
the amusement and information of her daughter, her sister, and her other friends at home, the
various scenes and occurrences that came under her own notice in the foreign countries in which
for many years her lot was cast, as the wife of an ambassador. In liveliness of style, Lady
Mary Montague is little if at all inferior to her French prototype; while, since she was endowed
with far more brilliant talents, and, from her foreign travels, had a wider range of observation,
her letters have a far greater interest than could attach to those of a writer, however accomplished
and sagacious, whose world was Paris, with bounds scarcely extending beyond Versailles on one
side, and Compiègne on the other. To these fair and lively ladies Walpole was now to succeed
as a third candidate for epistolary fame; though, with his habit of underrating his own talents,
he never aspired to equal the gay Frenchwoman; (the English lady's correspondence was as yet
unknown). There is evident sincerity in his reproof of one of his correspondents who had expressed
a most flattering opinion: "You say such extravagant things of my letters, which are nothing
but gossiping gazettes, that I cannot bear it; you have undone yourself with me, for you compare
them to Madame de Sévigné's. Absolute treason! Do you know there is scarcely a book in the
world I love so much as her letters?"

Yet critics who should place him on an equality with her would not be without plausible grounds
for their judgement. Many circumstances contributed to qualify him in a very special degree
for the task which, looking at his letters in that light, he may be said to have undertaken.
His birth, as the son of a great minister; his comparative opulence; even the indolent insignificance
of his elder brothers, which caused him to be looked upon as his father's representative, and
as such to be consulted by those who considered themselves as the heirs of his policy, while
the leader of that party in the House of Commons, General Conway, was his cousin, and the man
for whom he ever felt the strongest personal attachment,--were all advantages which fell to
the lot of but few. And to these may be added the variety of his tastes, as attested by the
variety of his published works. He was a man who observed everything, who took an interest
in everything. His correspondents, too, were so various and different as to ensure a variety
in his letters. Some were politicians, ministers at home, or envoys abroad; some were female
leaders of fashion, planning balls and masquerades, summoning him to join an expedition to
Ranelagh or Vauxhall; others were scholars, poets, or critics, inviting comments on Gray's
poems, on Robertson's style, on Gibbon's boundless learning; or on the impostures of Macpherson
and Chatterton; others, again, were antiquarians, to whom the helmet of Francis, or a pouncet-box
of the fair Diana, were objects of far greater interest than the intrigues of a Secretary of
State, or the expedients of a Chancellor of the Exchequer; and all such subjects are discussed
by him with evidently equal willingness, equal clearness, and liveliness.

It would not be fair to regard as a deduction from the value of those letters which bear on
the politics of the day the necessity of confessing that they are not devoid of partiality--that
they are coloured with his own views, both of measures and persons. Not only were political
prejudices forced upon him by the peculiarities of his position, but it may be doubted whether
any one ever has written, or can write, of transactions of national importance which are passing
under his own eyes, as it were, with absolute impartiality. It may even be a question whether,
if any one did so, it would not detract from his own character, at least as much as it might
add to the value of his writings. In one of his letters, Byron enumerates among the merits
of Mitford's "History of Greece," "wrath and partiality," explaining that such ingredients
make a man write "in earnest." And, in Walpole's case, the dislike which he naturally felt
towards those who had overthrown his father's administration by what, at a later day, they
themselves admitted to have been a factious and blamable opposition, was sharpened by his friendship
for his cousin Conway. At the same time we may remark in passing that his opinions and prejudices
were not so invincible as to blind him to real genius and eminent public services; and the
admirers of Lord Chatham may fairly draw an argument in favour of his policy from Walpole's
admission of its value in raising the spirit of the people; an admission which, it may be supposed,
it must have gone against his grain to make in favour of a follower of Pulteney.

But from his letters on other topics, on literature and art, no such deduction has to be made.
His judgement was generally sound and discriminating. He could appreciate the vast learning
and stately grandiloquence of Gibbon, and the widely different style of Robertson. Nor is it
greatly to his discredit that his disgust at what he considers Hume's needless parade of scepticism
and infidelity, which did honour to his heart, blinded him in a great degree to the historian's
unsurpassed acuteness and insight, and (to borrow the eulogy of Gibbon) "the careless inimitable
felicities" of his narrative. He was among the first to recognize the peculiar genius of Crabbe,
and to detect the impostures of Macpherson and Chatterton, while doing full justice to "the
astonishing prematurity" of the latter's genius. And in matters of art, so independent as well
as correct was his taste, that he not only, in one instance, ventured to differ from Reynolds,
but also proved to be right in his opinion that a work extolled by Sir Joshua, was but a copy,
and a poor one.

On his qualifications to be a painter of the way of life, habits, and manners (quorum pars
magna fuit) of the higher classes in his day, it would be superfluous to dwell. Scott, who
was by no means a warm admirer of his character, does not hesitate to pronounce him "certainly
the best letter-writer in the English language;" and the great poet who, next to Scott, holds
the highest place in the literary history of the last two centuries, adds his testimony not
only to the excellence of his letters, but also to his general ability as that of a high order.
"It is the fashion to underrate Horace Walpole, firstly, because he was a nobleman, and, secondly,
because he was a gentleman; but, to say nothing of the composition of his incomparable letters
and of 'The Castle of Otranto,' he is the 'Ultimus Romanorum,' the author of 'The Mysterious
Mother,' a tragedy of the highest order, and not a puling love-play. He is the father of the
first romance, and the last tragedy in our language; and surely worthy of a higher place than
any living writer, be he who he may."[1]

[Footnote 1: Byron, Preface to "Marino Faliere." But in the last sentence the poet certainly
exaggerated his admiration for Walpole; since it is sufficiently notorious from his own letters,
and from more than one passage in his works, as where he ranks Scott as second to Shakespeare
alone, that he deservedly admired him more than all their contemporaries put together.]

And it seems not unnatural to entertain a hope that a selection from a correspondence which
extorted such an eulogy from men whose own letters form no small part of the attraction of
Lockhart's and Moore's biographies, will be acceptable to many who, while lacking courage,
or perhaps leisure, to grapple with publications in many volumes, may welcome the opportunity
thus here afforded them of forming an acquaintance, however partial, with works which, in their
entire body, are deservedly reckoned among the masterpieces of our literature.[1]

[Footnote 1: It may be proper to point out that, in some few instances, a letter is not given
in its entirety; but, as in familiar correspondence, it must constantly happen that, while
the incidents mentioned in one portion of a letter are full of interest, of others--such as
marriages, deaths, &c.--the importance is of the most temporary and transitory character. It
may be hoped that the liberty taken of leaving out such portions will be regarded as, if not
commendable, at the least excusable.]

A SELECTION

FROM THE

LETTERS OF HORACE WALPOLE.

MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCESS OF WALES--VERY LIVELY.[1]

[Footnote 1: This letter, written before he was nineteen, is worth noticing as a proof how
innate was his liveliness of style, since in that respect few of the productions of his maturer
age surpasses it. It also shows how strong already was his expectations that his letters would
hereafter be regarded as interesting and valuable.]

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.[1]

[Footnote 1: George Montagu, Esq., of Roel, in the county of Gloucester, son of Brigadier-General
Edward Montagu, and long M.P. for Northampton. He was the grandnephew of the first Earl of
Halifax of the Montagu family, the statesman and poet, and was the contemporary at Eton of
Walpole and Gray. When his cousin, the Earl of Halifax, was Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, he
was his secretary; and when Lord North was Chancellor of the Exchequer, he occupied the same
position with him. He died May 10, 1780, leaving the bulk of his fortune to Lord North. Walpole's
letters to him, 272 in number, and dating between 1736 and 1770, were first published in 1818,
"from the Originals in the possession of the Editor." There was a coolness between Walpole
and Montagu several years before the latter's death, the correspondence dropping very abruptly.
The cause is explained by Walpole in a letter to Cole, dated May 11, 1780. Mr. Montagu's brother,
Edward, was killed at Fontenoy. His sister, Arabella, was married to a Mr. Wetenhall--a relation
of the Wetenhall mentioned in De Grammont. "Of Mr. Montagu, it is only remembered that he was
a gentleman-like body of the vieille cour, and that he was usually attended by his brother
John (the Little John of Walpole's correspondence), who was a midshipman at the age of sixty,
and found his chief occupation in carrying about his brother's snuff-box" (Quarterly Rev. for
April, 1818, p. 131).]

KING'S COLLEGE, May 2, 1736.

Dear Sir,--Unless I were to be married myself, I should despair ever being able to describe
a wedding so well as you have done: had I known your talent before, I would have desired an
epithalamium. I believe the Princess[1] will have more beauties bestowed on her by the occasional
poets, than even a painter would afford her. They will cook up a new Pandora, and in the bottom
of the box enclose Hope, that all they have said is true. A great many, out of excess of good
breeding, having heard it was rude to talk Latin before women, propose complimenting her in
English; which she will be much the better for. I doubt most of them, instead of fearing their
compositions should not be understood, should fear they should: they write they don't know
what, to be read by they don't know who. You have made me a very unreasonable request, which
I will answer with another as extraordinary: you desire I would burn your letters: I desire
you would keep mine. I know but of one way of making what I send you useful, which is, by sending
you a blank sheet: sure you would not grudge threepence for a halfpenny sheet, when you give
as much for one not worth a farthing. You drew this last paragraph on you by your exordium,
as you call it, and conclusion. I hope, for the future, our correspondence will run a little
more glibly, with dear George, and dear Harry [Conway]; not as formally as if we were playing
a game at chess in Spain and Portugal; and Don Horatio was to have the honour of specifying
to Don Georgio, by an epistle, whither he would move. In one point I would have our correspondence
like a game at chess; it should last all our lives--but I hear you cry check; adieu!

Dear George, yours ever.

[Footnote 1: Augusta, younger daughter of Frederic II., Duke of Saxe-Gotha, married (27th April,
1736) to Frederick, Prince of Wales, father of George III.

In 1736, I wrote a copy of Latin verses, published in the "Gratulatio Acad. Cantab.," on the
marriage of Frederick, Prince of Wales.--Walpole (Short Notes).]

FONDNESS FOR OLD STORIES--REMINISCENCES OF ETON, ETC.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, May 6, 1736.

Dear George,--I agree with you entirely in the pleasure you take in talking over old stories,
but can't say but I meet every day with new circumstances, which will be still more pleasure
to me to recollect. I think at our age 'tis excess of joy, to think, while we are running over
past happinesses, that it is still in our power to enjoy as great. Narrations of the greatest
actions of other people are tedious in comparison of the serious trifles that every man can
call to mind of himself while he was learning those histories. Youthful passages of life are
the chippings of Pitt's diamond, set into little heart-rings with mottoes; the stone itself
more worth, the filings more gentle and agreeable.--Alexander, at the head of the world, never
tasted the true pleasure that boys of his own age have enjoyed at the head of a school. Little
intrigues, little schemes, and policies engage their thoughts; and, at the same time that they
are laying the foundation for their middle age of life, the mimic republic they live in furnishes
materials of conversation for their latter age; and old men cannot be said to be children a
second time with greater truth from any one cause, than their living over again their childhood
in imagination. To reflect on the season when first they felt the titillation of love, the
budding passions, and the first dear object of their wishes! how unexperienced they gave credit
to all the tales of romantic loves! Dear George, were not the playing fields at Eton food for
all manner of flights? No old maid's gown, though it had been tormented into all the fashions
from King James to King George, ever underwent so many transformations as those poor plains
have in my idea. At first I was contented with tending a visionary flock, and sighing some
pastoral name to the echo of the cascade under the bridge. How happy should I have been to
have had a kingdom only for the pleasure of being driven from it, and living disguised in an
humble vale! As I got further into Virgil and Clelia, I found myself transported from Arcadia
to the garden of Italy; and saw Windsor Castle in no other view than the Capitoli immobile
saxum. I wish a committee of the House of Commons may ever seem to be the senate; or a bill
appear half so agreeable as a billet-doux. You see how deep you have carried me into old stories;
I write of them with pleasure, but shall talk of them with more to you. I can't say I am sorry
I was never quite a schoolboy: an expedition against bargemen, or a match at cricket, may be
very pretty things to recollect; but, thank my stars, I can remember things that are very near
as pretty. The beginning of my Roman history was spent in the asylum, or conversing in Egeria's
hallowed grove; not in thumping and pummelling king Amulius's herdsmen. I was sometimes troubled
with a rough creature or two from the plough; one, that one should have thought, had worked
with his head, as well as his hands, they were both so callous. One of the most agreeable circumstances
I can recollect is the Triumvirate, composed of yourself, Charles, and

Your sincere friend.

WISH TO TRAVEL--SUPERIORITY OF FRENCH MANNERS TO ENGLISH IN THEIR MANNER TO LADIES.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

KING'S COLLEGE, March 20, 1737.

Dear George,--The first paragraph in my letter must be in answer to the last in yours; though
I should be glad to make you the return you ask, by waiting on you myself. 'Tis not in my power,
from more circumstances than one, which are needless to tell you, to accompany you and Lord
Conway to Italy: you add to the pleasure it would give me, by asking it so kindly. You I am
infinitely obliged to, as I was capable, my dear George, of making you forget for a minute
that you don't propose stirring from the dear place you are now in. Poppies indeed are the
chief flowers in love nosegays, but they seldom bend towards the lady; at least not till the
other flowers have been gathered. Prince Volscius's boots were made of love-leather, and honour
leather; instead of honour, some people's are made of friendship: but since you have been so
good to me as to draw on this, I can almost believe you are equipped for travelling farther
than Rheims. 'Tis no little inducement to make me wish myself in France, that I hear gallantry
is not left off there; that you may be polite, and not be thought awkward for it. You know
the pretty men of the age in England use the women with no more deference than they do their
coach-horses, and have not half the regard for them that they have for themselves. The little
freedoms you tell me you use take off from formality, by avoiding which ridiculous extreme
we are dwindled into the other barbarous one, rusticity. If you had been at Paris, I should
have inquired about the new Spanish ambassadress, who, by the accounts we have thence, at her
first audience of the queen, sat down with her at a distance that suited respect and conversation.

Adieu, dear George,

Yours most heartily.

TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

PARIS, April 21, N.S. 1739.[1]

[Footnote 1: He is here dating according to the French custom. In England the calendar was
not rectified by the disuse of the "Old Style" till 1752.]

Dear West,--You figure us in a set of pleasures, which, believe me, we do not find; cards and
eating are so universal, that they absorb all variation of pleasures. The operas, indeed, are
much frequented three times a week; but to me they would be a greater penance than eating maigre:
their music resembles a gooseberry tart as much as it does harmony. We have not yet been at
the Italian playhouse; scarce any one goes there. Their best amusement, and which, in some
parts, beats ours, is the comedy; three or four of the actors excel any we have: but then to
this nobody goes, if it is not one of the fashionable nights; and then they go, be the play
good or bad--except on Molière's nights, whose pieces they are quite weary of. Gray and I have
been at the Avare to-night: I cannot at all commend their performance of it. Last night I was
in the Place de Louis le Grand (a regular octagon, uniform, and the houses handsome, though
not so large as Golden Square), to see what they reckoned one of the finest burials that ever
was in France. It was the Duke de Tresmes, governor of Paris and marshal of France. It began
on foot from his palace to his parish-church, and from thence in coaches to the opposite end
of Paris, to be interred in the church of the Celestins, where is his family-vault. About a
week ago we happened to see the grave digging, as we went to see the church, which is old and
small, but fuller of fine ancient monuments than any, except St. Denis, which we saw on the
road, and excels Westminster; for the windows are all painted in mosaic, and the tombs as fresh
and well preserved as if they were of yesterday. In the Celestins' church is a votive column
to Francis II., which says, that it is one assurance of his being immortalized, to have had
the martyr Mary Stuart for his wife. After this long digression, I return to the burial, which
was a most vile thing. A long procession of flambeaux and friars; no plumes, trophies, banners,
led horses, scutcheons, or open chariots; nothing but

                        friars,
    White, black, and grey, with all their trumpery.

This godly ceremony began at nine at night, and did not finish till three this morning; for,
each church they passed, they stopped for a hymn and holy water. By the bye, some of these
choice monks, who watched the body while it lay in state, fell asleep one night, and let the
tapers catch fire of the rich velvet mantle lined with ermine and powdered with gold flower-de-luces,
which melted the lead coffin, and burnt off the feet of the deceased before it wakened them.
The French love show; but there is a meanness reigns through it all. At the house where I stood
to see this procession, the room was hung with crimson damask and gold, and the windows were
mended in ten or a dozen places with paper. At dinner they give you three courses; but a third
of the dishes is patched up with salads, butter, puff-paste, or some such miscarriage of a
dish. None, but Germans, wear fine clothes; but their coaches are tawdry enough for the wedding
of Cupid and Psyche. You would laugh extremely at their signs: some live at the Y grec, some
at Venus's toilette, and some at the sucking cat. You would not easily guess their notions
of honour: I'll tell you one: it is very dishonourable for any gentleman not to be in the army,
or in the king's service as they call it, and it is no dishonour to keep public gaming-houses:
there are at least a hundred and fifty people of the first quality in Paris who live by it.
You may go into their houses at all hours of the night, and find hazard, pharaoh, &c. The men
who keep the hazard-table at the Duke de Gesvres' pay him twelve guineas each night for the
privilege. Even the princesses of the blood are dirty enough to have shares in the banks kept
at their houses. We have seen two or three of them; but they are not young, nor remarkable
but for wearing their red of a deeper dye than other women, though all use it extravagantly.

The weather is still so bad, that we have not made any excursions to see Versailles and the
environs, not even walked in the Tuileries; but we have seen almost everything else that is
worth seeing in Paris, though that is very considerable. They beat us vastly in buildings,
both in number and magnificence. The tombs of Richelieu and Mazarin at the Sorbonne and the
College de Quatre Nations are wonderfully fine, especially the former. We have seen very little
of the people themselves, who are not inclined to be propitious to strangers, especially if
they do not play and speak the language readily. There are many English here: Lord Holdernesse,
Conway and Clinton, and Lord George Bentinck; Mr. Brand, Offley, Frederic, Frampton, Bonfoy,
&c. Sir John Cotton's son and a Mr. Vernon of Cambridge passed through Paris last week. We
shall stay here about a fortnight longer, and then go to Rheims with Mr. Conway for two or
three months. When you have nothing else to do, we shall be glad to hear from you; and any
news. If we did not remember there was such a place as England, we should know nothing of it:
the French never mention it, unless it happens to be in one of their proverbs. Adieu!

Yours ever.

To-morrow we go to the Cid. They have no farces, but petites pièces like our 'Devil to Pay.'

MAGNIFICENCE OF VERSAILLES--THE CHARTREUX RELICS.

TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

FROM PARIS, 1739.

Dear West,--I should think myself to blame not to try to divert you, when you tell me I can.
From the air of your letter you seem to want amusement, that is, you want spirits. I would
recommend to you certain little employments that I know of, and that belong to you, but that
I imagine bodily exercise is more suitable to your complaint. If you would promise me to read
them in the Temple garden, I would send you a little packet of plays and pamphlets that we
have made up, and intend to dispatch to "Dick's"[1] the first opportunity.--Stand by, clear
the way, make room for the pompous appearance of Versailles le Grand!----But no: it fell so
short of my idea of it, mine, that I have resigned to Gray the office of writing its panegyric.
He likes it. They say I am to like it better next Sunday; when the sun is to shine, the king
is to be fine, the water-works are to play, and the new knights of the Holy Ghost are to be
installed! Ever since Wednesday, the day we were there, we have done nothing but dispute about
it. They say, we did not see it to advantage, that we ran through the apartments, saw the garden
en passant, and slubbered over Trianon. I say, we saw nothing. However, we had time to see
that the great front is a lumber of littleness, composed of black brick, stuck full of bad
old busts, and fringed with gold rails. The rooms are all small, except the great gallery,
which is noble, but totally wainscoted with looking-glass. The garden is littered with statues
and fountains, each of which has its tutelary deity. In particular, the elementary god of fire
solaces himself in one. In another, Enceladus, in lieu of a mountain, is overwhelmed with many
waters. There are avenues of water-pots, who disport themselves much in squirting up cascadelins.
In short, 'tis a garden for a great child. Such was Louis Quatorze, who is here seen in his
proper colours, where he commanded in person, unassisted by his armies and generals, and left
to the pursuit of his own puerile ideas of glory.

[Footnote 1: A celebrated coffee-house, near the Temple Gate in Fleet Street, where quarto
poems and pamphlets were taken in.]

We saw last week a place of another kind, and which has more the air of what it would be, than
anything I have yet met with: it was the convent of the Chartreux. All the conveniences, or
rather (if there was such a word) all the adaptments are assembled here, that melancholy, meditation,
selfish devotion, and despair would require. But yet 'tis pleasing. Soften the terms, and mellow
the uncouth horror that reigns here, but a little, and 'tis a charming solitude. It stands
on a large space of ground, is old and irregular. The chapel is gloomy: behind it, through
some dark passages, you pass into a large obscure hall, which looks like a combination-chamber
for some hellish council. The large cloister surrounds their burying-ground. The cloisters
are very narrow and very long, and let into the cells, which are built like little huts detached
from each other. We were carried into one, where lived a middle-aged man not long initiated
into the order. He was extremely civil, and called himself Dom Victor. We have promised to
visit him often. Their habit is all white: but besides this he was infinitely clean in his
person; and his apartment and garden, which he keeps and cultivates without any assistance,
was neat to a degree. He has four little rooms, furnished in the prettiest manner, and hung
with good prints. One of them is a library, and another a gallery. He has several canary-birds
disposed in a pretty manner in breeding-cages. In his garden was a bed of good tulips in bloom,
flowers and fruit-trees, and all neatly kept. They are permitted at certain hours to talk to
strangers, but never to one another, or to go out of their convent. But what we chiefly went
to see was the small cloister, with the history of St. Bruno, their founder, painted by Le
Soeur. It consists of twenty-two pictures, the figures a good deal less than life. But sure
they are amazing! I don't know what Raphael may be in Rome, but these pictures excel all I
have seen in Paris and England. The figure of the dead man who spoke at his burial, contains
all the strongest and horridest ideas, of ghastliness, hypocrisy discovered, and the height
of damnation, pain and cursing. A Benedictine monk, who was there at the same time, said to
me of this picture: C'est une fable, mais on la croyoit autrefois. Another, who showed me relics
in one of their churches, expressed as much ridicule for them. The pictures I have been speaking
of are ill preserved, and some of the finest heads defaced, which was done at first by a rival
of Le Soeur's. Adieu! dear West, take care of your health; and some time or other we will talk
over all these things with more pleasure than I have had in seeing them.

Yours ever.

TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

FLORENCE, February 27, 1740, N.S.

Well, West, I have found a little unmasqued moment to write to you; but for this week past
I have been so muffled up in my domino, that I have not had the command of my elbows. But what
have you been doing all the mornings? Could you not write then?--No, then I was masqued too;
I have done nothing but slip out of my domino into bed, and out of bed into my domino. The
end of the Carnival is frantic, bacchanalian; all the morn one makes parties in masque to the
shops and coffee-houses, and all the evening to the operas and balls. Then I have danced, good
gods! how have I danced! The Italians are fond to a degree of our country dances: Cold and
raw they only know by the tune; Blowzybella is almost Italian, and Buttered peas is Pizelli
al buro. There are but three days more; but the two last are to have balls all the morning
at the fine unfinished palace of the Strozzi; and the Tuesday night a masquerade after supper:
they sup first, to eat gras, and not encroach upon Ash-Wednesday. What makes masquerading more
agreeable here than in England, is the great deference that is showed to the disguised. Here
they do not catch at those little dirty opportunities of saying any ill-natured thing they
know of you, do not abuse you because they may, or talk gross bawdy to a woman of quality.
I found the other day, by a play of Etheridge's, that we have had a sort of Carnival even since
the Reformation; 'tis in She would if She could, they talk of going a-mumming in Shrove-tide.--

After talking so much of diversions, I fear you will attribute to them the fondness I own I
contract for Florence; but it has so many other charms, that I shall not want excuses for my
taste. The freedom of the Carnival has given me opportunities to make several acquaintances;
and if I have not found them refined, learned, polished, like some other cities, yet they are
civil, good-natured, and fond of the English. Their little partiality for themselves, opposed
to the violent vanity of the French, makes them very amiable in my eyes. I can give you a comical
instance of their great prejudice about nobility; it happened yesterday. While we were at dinner
at Mr. Mann's, word was brought by his secretary, that a cavalier demanded audience of him
upon an affair of honour. Gray and I flew behind the curtain of the door. An elderly gentleman,
whose attire was not certainly correspondent to the greatness of his birth, entered, and informed
the British minister, that one Martin, an English painter, had left a challenge for him at
his house, for having said Martin was no gentleman. He would by no means have spoke of the
duel before the transaction of it, but that his honour, his blood, his &c. would never permit
him to fight with one who was no cavalier; which was what he came to inquire of his excellency.
We laughed loud laughs, but unheard: his fright or his nobility had closed his ears. But mark
the sequel: the instant he was gone, my very English curiosity hurried me out of the gate St.
Gallo; 'twas the place and hour appointed. We had not been driving about above ten minutes,
but out popped a little figure, pale but cross, with beard unshaved and hair uncombed, a slouched
hat, and a considerable red cloak, in which was wrapped, under his arm, the fatal sword that
was to revenge the highly injured Mr. Martin, painter and defendant. I darted my head out of
the coach, just ready to say, "Your servant, Mr. Martin," and talk about the architecture of
the triumphal arch that was building there; but he would not know me, and walked off. We left
him to wait for an hour, to grow very cold and very valiant the more it grew past the hour
of appointment. We were figuring all the poor creature's huddle of thoughts, and confused hopes
of victory or fame, of his unfinished pictures, or his situation upon bouncing into the next
world. You will think us strange creatures; but 'twas a pleasant sight, as we knew the poor
painter was safe. I have thought of it since, and am inclined to believe that nothing but two
English could have been capable of such a jaunt. I remember, 'twas reported in London, that
the plague was at a house in the city, and all the town went to see it.

I have this instant received your letter. Lord! I am glad I thought of those parallel passages,
since it made you translate them. 'Tis excessively near the original; and yet, I don't know,
'tis very easy too.--It snows here a little to-night, but it never lies but on the mountains.
Adieu!

Yours ever.

P.S.--What is the history of the theatres this winter?

HERCULANEUM--SEARCH SHOULD BE MADE FOR OTHER SUBMERGED CITIES--QUOTATIONS FROM STATIUS.

TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

NAPLES, June 14, 1740, N.S.

Dear West,--One hates writing descriptions that are to be found in every book of travels; but
we have seen something to-day that I am sure you never read of, and perhaps never heard of.
Have you ever heard of a subterraneous town? a whole Roman town, with all its edifices, remaining
under ground? Don't fancy the inhabitants buried it there to save it from the Goths: they were
buried with it themselves; which is a caution we are not told that they ever took. You remember
in Titus's time there were several cities destroyed by an eruption of Vesuvius, attended with
an earthquake. Well, this was one of them, not very considerable, and then called Herculaneum.
Above it has since been built Portici, about three miles from Naples, where the King has a
villa. This underground city is perhaps one of the noblest curiosities that ever has been discovered.
It was found out by chance, about a year and half ago. They began digging, they found statues;
they dug further, they found more. Since that they have made a very considerable progress,
and find continually. You may walk the compass of a mile; but by the misfortune of the modern
town being overhead, they are obliged to proceed with great caution, lest they destroy both
one and t'other. By this occasion the path is very narrow, just wide enough and high enough
for one man to walk upright. They have hollowed, as they found it easiest to work, and have
carried their streets not exactly where were the ancient ones, but sometimes before houses,
sometimes through them. You would imagine that all the fabrics were crushed together; on the
contrary, except some columns, they have found all the edifices standing upright in their proper
situation. There is one inside of a temple quite perfect, with the middle arch, two columns,
and two pilasters. It is built of brick plastered over, and painted with architecture: almost
all the insides of the houses are in the same manner; and, what is very particular, the general
ground of all the painting is red. Besides this temple, they make out very plainly an amphitheatre:
the stairs, of white marble, and the seats are very perfect; the inside was painted in the
same colour with the private houses, and great part cased with white marble. They have found
among other things some fine statues, some human bones, some rice, medals, and a few paintings
extremely fine. These latter are preferred to all the ancient paintings that have ever been
discovered. We have not seen them yet, as they are kept in the King's apartment, whither all
these curiosities are transplanted; and 'tis difficult to see them--but we shall. I forgot
to tell you, that in several places the beams of the houses remain, but burnt to charcoal;
so little damaged that they retain visibly the grain of the wood, but upon touching crumble
to ashes. What is remarkable, there are no other marks or appearance of fire, but what are
visible on these beams.

There might certainly be collected great light from this reservoir of antiquities, if a man
of learning had the inspection of it; if he directed the working, and would make a journal
of the discoveries. But I believe there is no judicious choice made of directors. There is
nothing of the kind known in the world; I mean a Roman city entire of that age, and that has
not been corrupted with modern repairs. Besides scrutinising this very carefully, I should
be inclined to search for the remains of the other towns that were partners with this in the
general ruin.[1] 'Tis certainly an advantage to the learned world, that this has been laid
up so long. Most of the discoveries in Rome were made in a barbarous age, where they only ransacked
the ruins in quest of treasure, and had no regard to the form and being of the building; or
to any circumstances that might give light into its use and history. I shall finish this long
account with a passage which Gray has observed in Statius, and which directly pictures out
this latent city:--

    Haec ego Chalcidicis ad te, Marcelle, sonabam
    Littoribus, fractas ubi Vestius egerit iras,
    Aemula Trinacriis volvens incendia flammis.
    Mira fides! credetne virûm ventura propago,
    Cum segetes iterum, cum jam haec deserta virebunt,
    Infra urbes populosque premi?

    SYLV. lib. iv. epist. 4.

Adieu, my dear West! and believe me yours ever.

[Footnote 1: It was known from the account of Pliny that other towns had been destroyed by
the same eruption as Herculaneum, and eight years after the date of this letter some fresh
excavations led to the discovery of Pompeii. Matthews, in his "Diary of an Invalid," describes
both, and his account explains why Pompeii, though the smaller town, presents more attractions
to the scholar or the antiquarian. "On our way home we explored Herculaneum, which scarcely
repays the labour. This town is filled up with lava, and with a cement caused by the large
mixture of water with the shower of earth and ashes which destroyed it; and it is choked up
as completely as if molten lead had been poured into it. Besides, it is forty feet below the
surface, and another town is now built over it.... Pompeii, on the contrary, was destroyed
by a shower of cinders in which there was a much less quantity of water. It lay for centuries
only twelve feet below the surface, and, these cinders being easily removed, the town has been
again restored to the light of day"

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

RÈ DI COFANO, vulg. RADICOFANI,

July 5, 1740, N.S.

You will wonder, my dear Hal, to find me on the road from Rome: why, intend I did to stay for
a new popedom, but the old eminences are cross and obstinate, and will not choose one, the
Holy Ghost does not know when. There is a horrid thing called the malaria, that comes to Rome
every summer, and kills one, and I did not care for being killed so far from Christian burial.
We have been jolted to death; my servants let us come without springs to the chaise, and we
are wore threadbare: to add to our disasters, I have sprained my ancle, and have brought it
along, laid upon a little box of baubles that I have bought for presents in England. Perhaps
I may pick you out some little trifle there, but don't depend upon it; you are a disagreeable
creature, and may be I shall not care for you. Though I am so tired in this devil of a place,
yet I have taken it into my head, that it is like Hamilton's Bawn,[1] and I must write to you.
'Tis the top of a black barren mountain, a vile little town at the foot of an old citadel:
yet this, know you, was the residence of one of the three kings that went to Christ's birthday;
his name was Alabaster, Abarasser, or some such thing; the other two were kings, one of the
East, the other of Cologn. 'Tis this of Cofano, who was represented in an ancient painting,
found in the Palatine Mount, now in the possession of Dr. Mead; he was crowned by Augustus.
Well, but about writing--what do you think I write with? Nay, with a pen; there was never a
one to be found in the whole circumference but one, and that was in the possession of the governor,
and had been used time out of mind to write the parole with: I was forced to send to borrow
it. It was sent me under the conduct of a serjeant and two Swiss, with desire to return it
when I should have done with it. 'Tis a curiosity, and worthy to be laid up with the relics
which we have just been seeing in a small hovel of Capucins on the side of the hill, and which
were all brought by his Majesty from Jerusalem. Among other things of great sanctity there
is a set of gnashing of teeth, the grinders very entire; a bit of the worm that never dies,
preserved in spirits; a crow of St. Peter's cock, very useful against Easter; the crisping
and curling, frizzling and frowncing of Mary Magdalen, which she cut off on growing devout.
The good man that showed us all these commodities was got into such a train of calling them
the blessed this, and the blessed that, that at last he showed us a bit of the blessed fig-tree
that Christ cursed.

[Footnote 1: Hamilton's Bawn is an old building near Richhill, in the County of Armagh, the
subject of one of Swift's burlesque poems.]

FLORENCE, July 9.

My dear Harry,--We are come hither, and I have received another letter from you with "Hosier's
Ghost."[1] Your last put me in pain for you, when you talked of going to Ireland; but now I
find your brother and sister go with you, I am not much concerned. Should I be? You have but
to say, for my feelings are extremely at your service to dispose as you please. Let us see:
you are to come back to stand for some place; that will be about April. 'Tis a sort of thing
I should do, too; and then we should see one another, and that would be charming: but it is
a sort of thing I have no mind to do; and then we shall not see one another, unless you would
come hither--but that you cannot do: nay, I would not have you, for then I shall be gone.--So,
there are many ifs that just signify nothing at all. Return I must sooner than I shall like.
I am happy here to a degree. I'll tell you my situation. I am lodged with Mr. Mann, the best
of creatures. I have a terreno all to myself, with an open gallery on the Arno, where I am
now writing to you. Over against me is the famous Gallery: and, on either hand, two fair bridges.
Is not this charming and cool? The air is so serene, and so secure, that one sleeps with all
the windows and doors thrown open to the river, and only covered with a slight gauze to keep
away the gnats. Lady Pomfret has a charming conversation once a week. She has taken a vast
palace and a vast garden, which is vastly commode, especially to the cicisbeo-part of mankind,
who have free indulgence to wander in pairs about the arbours. You know her daughters: Lady
Sophia is still, nay she must be, the beauty she was: Lady Charlotte is much improved, and
is the cleverest girl in the world; speaks the purest Tuscan, like any Florentine. The Princess
Craon has a constant pharaoh and supper every night, where one is quite at one's ease. I am
going into the country with her and the prince for a little while, to a villa of the Great
Duke's. The people are good-humoured here and easy; and what makes me pleased with them, they
are pleased with me. One loves to find people care for one, when they can have no view in it.

[Footnote 1: "Admiral Hosier's Ghost" is the title of a ballad by Glover on the death of Admiral
Hosier, a distinguished admiral, who had been sent with a squadron to blockade the Spanish
treasure-ships in Porto Bello, but was prohibited from attacking them in the harbour. He died
in 1727, according to the account that the poet adopted, of mortification at the inaction to
which his orders compelled him; but according to another statement, more trustworthy if less
poetical, of fever.]

You see how glad I am to have reasons for not returning; I wish I had no better.

As to "Hosier's Ghost," I think it very easy, and consequently pretty; but, from the ease,
should never have guessed it Glover's. I delight in your, "the patriots cry it up, and the
courtiers cry it down, and the hawkers cry it up and down," and your laconic history of the
King and Sir Robert, on going to Hanover, and turning out the Duke of Argyle. The epigram,
too, you sent me on the same occasion is charming.

Unless I sent you back news that you and others send me, I can send you none. I have left the
Conclave, which is the only stirring thing in this part of the world, except the child that
the Queen of Naples is to be delivered of in August. There is no likelihood the Conclave will
end, unless the messages take effect which 'tis said the Imperial and French ministers have
sent to their respective courts for leave to quit the Corsini for the Albani faction: otherwise
there will never be a pope. Corsini has lost the only one he could have ventured to make pope,
and him he designed; 'twas Cenci, a relation of the Corsini's mistress. The last morning Corsini
made him rise, stuffed a dish of chocolate down his throat, and would carry him to the scrutiny.
The poor old creature went, came back, and died. I am sorry to have lost the sight of the Pope's
coronation, but I might have staid for seeing it till I had been old enough to be pope myself.[1]

[Footnote 1: The contest was caused by the death of Clement XII. The successful candidate was
Benedict XIV.]

Harry, what luck the Chancellor has! first, indeed, to be in himself so great a man; but then
in accident: he is made Chief Justice and peer, when Talbot is made Chancellor and peer. Talbot
dies in a twelvemonth, and leaves him the seals at an age when others are scarce made Solicitors:--then
marries his son into one of the first families of Britain, obtains a patent for a Marquisate
and eight thousand pounds a year after the Duke of Kent's death: the Duke dies in a fortnight,
and leaves them all! People talk of Fortune's wheel, that is always rolling: troth, my Lord
Hardwicke has overtaken her wheel, and rolled away with it.... Yours ever.

TO RICHARD WEST, ESQ.

FLORENCE, Oct. 2, 1740, N.S.

Dear West,--T'other night as we (you know who we are) were walking on the charming bridge,
just before going to a wedding assembly, we said, "Lord, I wish, just as we are got into the
room, they would call us out, and say, West is arrived! We would make him dress instantly,
and carry him back to the entertainment. How he would stare and wonder at a thousand things,
that no longer strike us as odd!" Would not you? One agreed that you should have come directly
by sea from Dover, and be set down at Leghorn, without setting foot in any other foreign town,
and so land at Us, in all your first full amaze; for you are to know, that astonishment rubs
off violently; we did not cry out Lord! half so much at Rome as at Calais, which to this hour
I look upon as one of the most surprising cities in the universe. My dear child, what if you
were to take this little sea-jaunt? One would recommend Sir John Norris's convoy to you, but
one should be laughed at now for supposing that he is ever to sail beyond Torbay.[1] The Italians
take Torbay for an English town in the hands of the Spaniards, after the fashion of Gibraltar,
and imagine 'tis a wonderful strong place, by our fleet's having retired from before it so
often, and so often returned.

[Footnote 1: Sir John Norris was one of the most gallant and skilful seamen of his time; but
an expedition in which he had had the command had lately proved fruitless. He had been instructed
to cruise about the Bay of Biscay, in the hope of intercepting some of the Spanish treasure-ships;
but the weather had been so uninterruptedly stormy that he had been compelled to return to
port without having even seen an enemy. The following lines were addressed to him upon this
occasion:

    Homeward, oh! bend thy course; the seas are rough;
    To the Land's End who sails, has sailed enough.]

We went to this wedding that I told you of; 'twas a charming feast: a large palace finely illuminated;
there were all the beauties, all the jewels, and all the sugar-plums of Florence. Servants
loaded with great chargers full of comfits heap the tables with them, the women fall on with
both hands, and stuff their pockets and every creek and corner about them. You would be as
much amazed at us as at anything you saw: instead of being deep in the liberal arts, and being
in the Gallery every morning, as I thought of course to be sure I would be, we are in all the
idleness and amusements of the town. For me, I am grown so lazy, and so tired of seeing sights,
that, though I have been at Florence six months, I have not seen Leghorn, Pisa, Lucca, or Pistoia;
nay, not so much as one of the Great Duke's villas. I have contracted so great an aversion
to inns and post-chaises, and have so absolutely lost all curiosity, that, except the towns
in the straight road to Great Britain, I shall scarce see a jot more of a foreign land; and
trust me, when I return, I will not visit Welsh mountains, like Mr. Williams. After Mount Cenis,
the Boccheto, the Giogo, Radicofani, and the Appian Way, one has mighty little hunger after
travelling. I shall be mighty apt to set up my staff at Hyde-park-corner: the alehouseman there
at Hercules's Pillars[1] was certainly returned from his travels into foreign parts.

[Footnote 1: The sign of the Hercules' Pillars remained in Piccadilly till very lately. It
was situated on part of the ground now [1798] occupied by the houses of Mr. Drummond Smith
and his brother.--MISS BERRY. That is, on the space between Hamilton Place and Apsley House.
It was the inn mentioned in Fielding's "Tom Jones," and was notorious as a favourite resort
of the Marquis of Granby.]

Now I'll answer your questions.

I have made no discoveries in ancient or modern arts. Mr. Addison travelled through the poets,
and not through Italy; for all his ideas are borrowed from the descriptions, and not from the
reality. He saw places as they were, not as they are.[1] I am very well acquainted with Doctor
Cocchi;[2] he is a good sort of man, rather than a great man; he is a plain honest creature,
with quiet knowledge, but I dare say all the English have told you, he has a very particular
understanding: I really don't believe they meant to impose on you, for they thought so. As
to Bondelmonti, he is much less; he is a low mimic; the brightest cast of his parts attains
to the composition of a sonnet: he talks irreligion with English boys, sentiment with my sister
[Lady Walpole], and bad French with any one that will hear him. I will transcribe you a little
song that he made t'other day; 'tis pretty enough; Gray turned it into Latin, and I into English;
you will honour him highly by putting it into French, and Ashton into Greek. Here 'tis.

    Spesso Amor sotto la forma
    D'amistà ride, e s'asconde;
    Poi si mischia, e si confonde
    Con lo sdegno e col rancor.

    In pietade ei si trasforma,
    Par trastullo e par dispetto,
    Ma nel suo diverso aspetto,
    Sempre egli è l'istesso Amor.

    Risit amicitiae interdùm velatus amictu,
      Et benè compositâ veste fefeliit Amor:
    Mox irae assumpsit cultus faciemque minantem,
      Inque odium versus, versus et in lacrymas:
    Sudentem fuge, nec lacrymanti aut crede furenti;
      Idem est dissimili semper in ore Deus.

    Love often in the comely mien
    Of friendship fancies to be seen;
    Soon again he shifts his dress,
    And wears disdain and rancour's face.

    To gentle pity then he changes;
    Thro' wantonness, thro' piques he ranges;
    But in whatever shape he move,
    He's still himself, and still is Love.

[Footnote 1: Compare Letter to Zouch, March 20th, 1762. Fielding says ("Voyage to Lisbon")
that Addison, in his "Travels," is to be looked upon rather as a commentator on the classics,
than as a writer of travels.]

[Footnote 2: Antonio Cocchi, a learned physician and author at Florence, a particular friend
of Mr. Mann.--WALPOLE. He died in 1758.]

See how we trifle! but one can't pass one's youth too amusingly; for one must grow old, and
that in England; two most serious circumstances either of which makes people grey in the twinkling
of a bed-staff; for know you, there is not a country upon earth where there are so many old
fools and so few young ones.

Now I proceed with my answers.

I made but small collections, and have only bought some bronzes and medals, a few busts, and
two or three pictures; one of my busts is to be mentioned; 'tis the famous Vespasian in touchstone,
reckoned the best in Rome, except the Caracalla of the Farnese: I gave but twenty-two pounds
for it at Cardinal Ottoboni's sale. One of my medals is as great a curiosity: 'tis of Alexander
Severus, with the amphitheatre in brass; this reverse is extant on medals of his, but mine
is a medagliuncino, or small medallion, and the only one with this reverse known in the world:
'twas found by a peasant while I was in Rome, and sold by him for sixpence to an antiquarian,
to whom I paid for it seven guineas and a half; but to virtuosi 'tis worth any sum.

As to Tartini's[1] musical compositions, ask Gray; I know but little in music.

[Footnote 1: Giuseppe Tartini, of Padua, the celebrated composer of the Devil's Sonata: in
which he attempted to reproduce an air which he dreamt that Satan had played to him while he
was asleep; but, in his own opinion, he failed so entirely, that he declared that if he had
any other means of livelihood he would break his violin and give up music.]

But for the Academy, I am not of it, but frequently in company with it: 'tis all disjointed.
Madame ----, who, though a learned lady, has not lost her modesty and character, is extremely
scandalised with the other two dames, especially with Moll Worthless [Lady Mary Wortley], who
knows no bounds. She is at rivalry with Lady W[alpole] for a certain Mr. ----, whom perhaps
you knew at Oxford. If you did not, I'll tell you: he is a grave young man by temper, and a
rich one by constitution; a shallow creature by nature, but a wit by the grace of our women
here, whom he deals with as of old with the Oxford toasts. He fell into sentiments with my
Lady W[alpole] and was happy to catch her at Platonic love: but as she seldom stops there,
the poor man will be frightened out of his senses when she shall break the matter to him; for
he never dreamt that her purposes were so naught. Lady Mary is so far gone, that to get him
from the mouth of her antagonist she literally took him out to dance country dances last night
at a formal ball, where there was no measure kept in laughing at her old, foul, tawdry, painted,
plastered personage. She played at pharaoh two or three times at Princess Craon's, where she
cheats horse and foot. She is really entertaining: I have been reading her works, which she
lends out in manuscript, but they are too womanish: I like few of her performances. I forgot
to tell you a good answer of Lady Pomfret to Mr. ----, who asked her if she did not approve
Platonic love? "Lord, sir," says she, "I am sure any one that knows me never heard that I had
any love but one, and there sit two proofs of it," pointing to her two daughters.

So I have given you a sketch of our employments, and answered your questions, and will with
pleasure as many more as you have about you.

Adieu! Was ever such a long letter? But 'tis nothing to what I shall have to say to you. I
shall scold you for never telling us any news, public or private, no deaths, marriages, or
mishaps; no account of new books: Oh, you are abominable! I could find it in my heart to hate
you, if I did not love you so well; but we will quarrel now, that we may be the better friends
when we meet: there is no danger of that, is there? Good-night, whether friend or foe! I am
most sincerely

Yours.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.[1]

[Footnote 1: Sir H. Mann was an early friend of Walpole; and was Minister at Florence from
1740-1786.]

Friday, Jan. 22, 1742.

Don't wonder that I missed writing to you yesterday, my constant day: you will pity me when
you hear that I was shut up in the House of Commons till one in the morning. I came away more
dead than alive, and was forced to leave Sir R. at supper with my brothers: he was all alive
and in spirits.[1] He says he is younger than me, and indeed I think so, in spite of his forty
years more. My head aches to-night, but we rose early; and if I don't write to-night, when
shall I find a moment to spare? Now you want to know what we did last night; stay, I will tell
you presently in its place: it was well, and of infinite consequence--so far I tell you now.

[Footnote 1: Sir Robert Wilmot also, in a letter to the Duke of Devonshire, written on the
12th, says, "Sir Robert was to-day observed to be more naturally gay and full of spirits than
he has been for some time past."]

Our recess finished last Monday, and never at school did I enjoy holidays so much--but, les
voilà finis jusqu'au printems! Tuesday (for you see I write you an absolute journal) we sat
on a Scotch election, a double return; their man was Hume Campbell[1], Lord Marchmont's brother,
lately made solicitor to the Prince, for being as troublesome, as violent, and almost as able
as his brother. They made a great point of it, and gained so many of our votes, that at ten
at night we were forced to give it up without dividing. Sandys, who loves persecution, even
unto death, moved to punish the sheriff; and as we dared not divide, they ordered him into
custody, where by this time, I suppose, Sandys has eaten him.

[Footnote 1: Hume Campbell, twin brother of Hugh, third Earl of Marchmont, the friend of Pope,
and one of his executors. They were sons of Alexander, the second earl, who had quarrelled
with Sir Robert Walpole at the time of the excise scheme in 1733. Sir Robert, in consequence,
prevented him from being re-elected one of the sixteen representative Scotch peers in 1734;
in requital for which, the old earl's two sons became the bitterest opponents of the minister.
They were both men of considerable talents; extremely similar in their characters and dispositions,
and so much so in their outward appearance, that it was very difficult to know them apart.]

On Wednesday Sir Robert Godschall, the Lord Mayor, presented the Merchant's petition, signed
by three hundred of them, and drawn up by Leonidas Glover.[1] This is to be heard next Wednesday.
This gold-chain came into parliament, cried up for his parts, but proves so dull, one would
think he chewed opium. Earle says, "I have heard an oyster speak as well twenty times."...

[Footnote 1: Mr. Glover, a London merchant, was the author of a poem entitled "Leonidas"; of
a tragedy, "Boadicea"; and of the ode on "Admiral Hosier's Ghost," which is mentioned in the
letter to Conway at p. 23.]

On this Thursday, of which I was telling you, at three o'clock, Mr. Pulteney rose up, and moved
for a secret committee of twenty-one. This inquisition, this council of ten, was to sit and
examine whatever persons and papers they should please, and to meet when and where they pleased.
He protested much on its not being intended against any person, but merely to give the King
advice, and on this foot they fought it till ten at night, when Lord Perceval blundered out
what they had been cloaking with so much art, and declared that he should vote for it as a
committee of accusation. Sir Robert immediately rose, and protested that he should not have
spoken, but for what he had heard last; but that now, he must take it to himself. He pourtrayed
the malice of the Opposition, who, for twenty years, had not been able to touch him, and were
now reduced to this infamous shift. He defied them to accuse him, and only desired that if
they should, it might be in an open and fair manner; desired no favour, but to be acquainted
with his accusation. He spoke of Mr. Dodington, who had called his administration infamous,
as of a person of great self-mortification, who, for sixteen years, had condescended to bear
part of the odium. For Mr. Pulteney, who had just spoken a second time, Sir R. said, he had
begun the debate with great calmness, but give him his due, he had made amends for it in the
end. In short, never was innocence so triumphant!

There were several glorious speeches on both sides; Mr. Pulteney's two, W. Pitt's [Chatham's]
and George Grenville's, Sir Robert's, Sir W. Yonge's, Harry Fox's [Lord Holland's], Mr. Chute's,
and the Attorney-General's [Sir Dudley Ryder]. My friend Coke [Lovel], for the first time,
spoke vastly well, and mentioned how great Sir Robert's character is abroad. Sir Francis Dashwood
replied that he had found quite the reverse from Mr. Coke, and that foreigners always spoke
with contempt of the Chevalier de Walpole. This was going too far, and he was called to order,
but got off well enough, by saying, that he knew it was contrary to rule to name any member,
but that he only mentioned it as spoken by an impertinent Frenchman.

But of all speeches, none ever was so full of wit as Mr. Pulteney's last. He said, "I have
heard this committee represented as a most dreadful spectre; it has been likened to all terrible
things; it has been likened to the King; to the inquisition; it will be a committee of safety;
it is a committee of danger; I don't know what it is to be! One gentleman, I think, called
it a cloud! (this was the Attorney) a cloud! I remember Hamlet takes Lord Polonius by the hand
shows him a cloud, and then asks him if he does not think it is like a whale." Well, in short,
at eleven at night we divided, and threw out this famous committee by 253 to 250, the greatest
number that ever was in the house, and the greatest number that ever lost a question.[1]

[Footnote 1: Lord Stanhope ("History of England," i. 24) gives a long account of this debate,
mainly derived from this letter.]

It was a most shocking sight to see the sick and dead brought in on both sides! Men on crutches,
and Sir William Gordon from his bed, with a blister on his head, and flannel hanging out from
under his wig. I could scarce pity him for his ingratitude. The day before the Westminster
petition, Sir Charles Wager gave his son a ship, and the next day the father came down and
voted against him. The son has since been cast away; but they concealed it from the father,
that he might not absent himself. However, as we have our good-natured men too on our side,
one of his own countrymen went and told him of it in the House. The old man, who looked like
Lazarus at his resuscitation, bore it with great resolution, and said, he knew why he was told
of it, but when he thought his country in danger, he would not go away. As he is so near death,
that it is indifferent to him whether he died two thousand years ago or to-morrow, it is unlucky
for him not to have lived when such insensibility would have been a Roman virtue.

There are no arts, no menaces, which the Opposition do not practise. They have threatened one
gentleman to have a reversion cut off from his son, unless he will vote with them. To Totness
there came a letter to the mayor from the Prince, and signed by two of his lords, to recommend
a candidate in opposition to the Solicitor-General [Strange]. The mayor sent the letter to
Sir Robert. They have turned the Scotch to the best account. There is a young Oswald, who had
engaged to Sir R. but has voted against us. Sir R. sent a friend to reproach him; the moment
the gentleman who had engaged for him came into the room, Oswald said, "You had like to have
led me into a fine error! did you not tell me that Sir R. would have the majority?"

When the debate was over, Mr. Pulteney owned that he had never heard so fine a debate on our
side; and said to Sir Robert, "Well, nobody can do what you can!" "Yes," replied Sir R., "Yonge
did better." Mr. Pulteney answered, "It was fine, but not of that weight with what you said."
They all allow it; and now their plan is to persuade Sir Robert to retire with honour. All
that evening there was a report about the town, that he and my uncle [old Horace] were to be
sent to the Tower, and people hired windows in the City to see them pass by--but for this time
I believe we shall not exhibit so historical a parade....

Sir Thomas Robinson [Long] is at last named to the government of Barbadoes; he has long prevented
its being asked for, by declaring that he had the promise of it. Luckily for him, Lord Lincoln
liked his house, and procured him this government on condition of hiring it.

I have mentioned Lord Perceval's speeches; he has a set who has a rostrum at his house, and
harangue there.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

DOWNING STREET, May 26, 1742.

To-day calls itself May the 26th, as you perceive by the date; but I am writing to you by the
fire-side, instead of going to Vauxhall. If we have one warm day in seven, "we bless our stars,
and think it luxury." And yet we have as much water-works and fresco diversions, as if we lay
ten degrees nearer warmth. Two nights ago Ranelagh-gardens were opened at Chelsea; the Prince,
Princess, Duke, much nobility, and much mob besides, were there. There is a vast amphitheatre,
finely gilt, painted, and illuminated, into which everybody that loves eating, drinking, staring,
or crowding, is admitted for twelvepence. The building and disposition of the garden cost sixteen
thousand pounds. Twice a-week there are to be Ridottos, at guinea-tickets, for which you are
to have a supper and music. I was there last night, but did not find the joy of it. Vauxhall
is a little better; for the garden is pleasanter, and one goes by water. Our operas are almost
over; there were but three-and-forty people last night in the pit and boxes. There is a little
simple farce at Drury Lane, called "Miss Lucy in Town," in which Mrs. Clive mimics the Muscovita
admirably, and Beard, Amorevoli tolerably. But all the run is now after Garrick, a wine-merchant,
who is turned player, at Goodman's fields. He plays all parts, and is a very good mimic. His
acting I have seen, and may say to you, who will not tell it again here, I see nothing wonderful
in it; but it is heresy to say so: the Duke of Argyll says, he is superior to Betterton. Now
I talk of players, tell Mr. Chute, that his friend Bracegirdle breakfasted with me this morning.
As she went out, and wanted her clogs, she turned to me, and said, "I remember at the playhouse,
they used to call Mrs. Oldfield's chair! Mrs. Barry's clogs! and Mrs. Bracegirdle's pattens!"

I did, indeed, design the letter of this post for Mr. Chute; but I have received two such charming
long ones from you of the 15th and 20th of May (N.S.), that I must answer them, and beg him
to excuse me till another post; so must the Prince [Craon], Princess, the Grifona, and Countess
Galli. For the Princess's letter, I am not sure I shall answer it so soon, for hitherto I have
not been able to read above every third word; however, you may thank her as much as if I understood
it all. I am very happy that mes bagatelles (for I still insist they were so) pleased. You,
my dear child, are very good to be pleased with the snuff-box. I am much obliged to the superior
lumières of old Sarasin about the Indian ink: if she meant the black, I am sorry to say I had
it into the bargain with the rest of the Japan: for coloured, it is only a curiosity, because
it has seldom been brought over. I remember Sir Hans Sloane was the first who ever had any
of it, and would on no account give my mother the least morsel of it. She afterwards got a
good deal of it from China; and since that, more has come over; but it is even less valuable
than the other, for we never could tell how to use it; however, let it make its figure.

I am sure you hate me all this time, for chatting about so many trifles, and telling you no
politics. I own to you, I am so wearied, so worn with them, that I scarce know how to turn
my hand to them; but you shall know all I know. I told you of the meeting at the Fountain tavern:
Pulteney had promised to be there, but was not; nor Carteret. As the Lords had put off the
debate on the Indemnity Bill,[1] nothing material passed; but the meeting was very Jacobite.
Yesterday the bill came on, and Lord Carteret took the lead against it, and about seven in
the evening it was flung out by almost two to one, 92 to 47, and 17 proxies to 10. To-day we
had a motion by the new Lord Hillsborough (for the father is just dead), and seconded by Lord
Barrington, to examine the Lords' votes, to see what was become of the bill; this is the form.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, and all the new ministry, were with us against it; but they
carried it, 164 to 159. It is to be reported to-morrow, and as we have notice, we may possibly
throw it out; else they will hurry on to a breach with the Lords. Pulteney was not in the House:
he was riding the other day, and met the King's coach; endeavouring to turn out of the way,
his horse started, flung him, and fell upon him: he is much bruised; but not at all dangerously.
On this occasion, there was an epigram fixed to a list, which I will explain to you afterwards:
it is not known who wrote it, but it was addressed to him:

    Thy horse does things by halves, like thee:
      Thou, with irresolution,
    Hurt'st friend and foe, thyself and me,
      The King and Constitution.

[Footnote 1: A previous letter describes this as a Bill "to indemnify all persons who should
accuse themselves of any crime, provided they accuse Lord Orford [Sir R.W.]." It was carried
in the House of Commons by 251 to 228, but, as this letter mentions, was thrown out by the
Lords by 109 to 57. Lord Stanhope (c. 24) describes it as "a Bill which broke through the settled
forms and safeguards of law, to strike at one obnoxious head."]

       *       *       *       *       *

I must tell you an ingenuity of Lord Raymond, an epitaph on the Indemnifying Bill--I believe
you would guess the author:--

    Interr'd beneath this marble stone doth lie
         The Bill of Indemnity;
    To show the good for which it was design'd,
         It died itself to save mankind.

       *       *       *       *       *

There has lately been published one of the most impudent things that ever was printed; it is
called "The Irish Register," and is a list of all the unmarried women of any fashion in England,
ranked in order, duchesses-dowager, ladies, widows, misses, &c., with their names at length,
for the benefit of Irish fortune-hunters, or as it is said, for the incorporating and manufacturing
of British commodities. Miss Edwards is the only one printed with a dash, because they have
placed her among the widows. I will send you this, "Miss Lucy in Town," and the magazines,
by the first opportunity, as I should the other things, but your brother tells me you have
had them by another hand. I received the cedrati, for which I have already thanked you: but
I have been so much thanked by several people to whom I gave some, that I can very well afford
to thank you again....

P.S.--I unseal my letter to tell you what a vast and, probably, final victory we have gained
to-day. They moved, that the Lords flinging out the Bill of Indemnity was an obstruction of
justice, and might prove fatal to the liberties of this country. We have sat till this moment,
seven o'clock, and have rejected this motion by 245 to 193. The call of the House, which they
have kept off from fortnight to fortnight, to keep people in town, was appointed for to-day.
The moment the division was over, Sir John Cotton rose and said, "As I think the inquiry is
at an end, you may do what you will with the call." We have put it off for two months. There's
a noble postscript!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Dec. 9, 1742.

I shall have quite a partiality for the post of Holland; it brought me two letters last week,
and two more yesterday, of November 20th and 27th; but I find you have your perpetual headaches--how
can you say that you shall tire me with talking of them? you may make me suffer by your pains,
but I will hear and insist upon your always telling me of your health. Do you think I only
correspond with you to know the posture of the Spaniards or the épuisements of the Princess!
I am anxious, too, to know how poor Mr. Whithed does, and Mr. Chute's gout. I shall look upon
our sea-captains with as much horror as the King of Naples can, if they bring gouts, fits,
and headaches.

You will have had a letter from me by this time, to give up sending the Dominichin by a man-of-war,
and to propose its coming in a Dutch ship. I believe that will be safe.

We have had another great day in the House on the army in Flanders, which the Opposition were
for disbanding; but we carried it by a hundred and twenty. Murray spoke for the first time,
with the greatest applause; Pitt answered him with all his force and art of language, but on
an ill-founded argument. In all appearances, they will be great rivals. Shippen was in great
rage at Murray's apostacy; if anything can really change his principles, possibly this competition
may. To-morrow we shall have a tougher battle on the sixteen thousand Hanoverians. Hanover
is the word given out for this winter: there is a most bold pamphlet come out, said to be Lord
Marchmont's, which affirms that in every treaty made since the accession of this family, England
has been sacrificed to the interests of Hanover, and consequently insinuates the incompatibility
of the two. Lord Chesterfield says "that if we have a mind effectually to prevent the Pretender
from ever obtaining this crown, we should make him Elector of Hanover, for the people of England
will never fetch another king from thence."

Adieu! my dear child. I am sensible that I write you short letters, but I write you all I know.
I don't know how it is, but the wonderful seems worn out. In this our day, we have no rabbit-women--no
elopements--no epic poems, finer than Milton's--no contest about Harlequins and Polly Peachems.
Jansen[1] has won no more estates, and the Duchess of Queensberry has grown as tame as her
neighbours. Whist has spread an universal opium over the whole nation; it makes courtiers and
patriots sit down to the same pack of cards. The only thing extraordinary, and which yet did
not seem to surprise anybody, was the Barbarina's being attacked by four men masqued, the other
night, as she came out of the Opera House, who would have forced her away; but she screamed,
and the guard came. Nobody knows who set them on, and I believe nobody inquired.

[Footnote 1: H. Jansen, a celebrated gamester, who cheated the Duke of Bedford of an immense
sum: Pope hints at that affair in this line,

    Or when a duke to Jansen punts at White's.]

The Austrians in Flanders have separated from our troops a little out of humour, because it
was impracticable for them to march without any preparatory provision for their reception.
They will probably march in two months, if no peace prevents it. Adieu!

KING THEODORE--HANDEL INTRODUCES ORATORIOS.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Feb. 24, 1743.

I write to you in the greatest hurry in the world, but write I will. Besides, I must wish you
joy: you are warriors; nay, conquerors[1]; two things quite novel in this war, for hitherto
it has been armies without fighting, and deaths without killing. We talk of this battle as
of a comet; "Have you heard of the battle?" it is so strange a thing, that numbers imagine
you may go and see it at Charing Cross. Indeed, our officers, who are going to Flanders, don't
quite like it; they are afraid it should grow the fashion to fight, and that a pair of colours
should no longer be a sinecure. I am quite unhappy about poor Mr. Chute: besides, it is cruel
to find that abstinence is not a drug. If mortification ever ceases to be a medicine, or virtue
to be a passport to carnivals in the other world, who will be a self-tormentor any longer--not,
my child, that I am one; but, tell me, is he quite recovered?

[Footnote 1: This alludes to an engagement, which took place on the 8th of February, near Bologna,
between the Spaniards under M. de Gages, and the Austrians under General Traun, in which the
latter were successful.]

I thank you for King Theodore's declaration,[1] and wish him success with all my soul. I hate
the Genoese; they make a commonwealth the most devilish of all tyrannies!

[Footnote 1: With regard to Corsica, of which he had declared himself king. By this declaration,
which was dated January 30, Theodore recalled, under pain of confiscation of their estates,
all the Corsicans in foreign service, except that of the Queen of Hungary, and the Grand Duke
of Tuscany. (See vol. ii. p. 74.)]

We have every now and then motions for disbanding Hessians and Hanoverians,[1] alias mercenaries;
but they come to nothing. To-day the party have declared that they have done for this session;
so you will hear little more but of fine equipages for Flanders: our troops are actually marched,
and the officers begin to follow them--I hope they know whither! You know in the last war in
Spain, Lord Peterborough[2] rode galloping about to inquire for his army.

[Footnote 1: The employment of Hessian and Hanoverian troops in this war was not only the subject
of frequent complaints in Parliament, but was also the cause of very general dissatisfaction
in the country, where it was commonly regarded as one of the numerous instances in which the
Ministers sacrificed the interests of England from an unworthy desire to maintain their places
by humouring the king's preference for his native land.]

[Footnote 2: Lord Peterborough is celebrated by Pope as

            taming the genius of the arid plain
    Almost as quickly as he conquered Spain:

not that he did conquer Spain; but by an extraordinary combination of hardihood and skill he
took Barcelona, which had defied all previous attacks; and, in the confidence inspired by this
important success, he offered Archduke Charles to escort him to Madrid, so that he might be
crowned King of Spain in that capital. But the Archduke, under the advice of some of his own
countrymen, who were jealous of his influence, rejected the plan.]

But to come to more real contests; Handel has set up an Oratorio against the Operas, and succeeds.
He has hired all the goddesses from farces and the singers of Roast Beef[1] from between the
acts at both theatres, with a man with one note in his voice, and a girl without ever an one;
and so they sing, and make brave hallelujahs; and the good company encore the recitative, if
it happens to have any cadence like what they call a tune. I was much diverted the other night
at the opera; two gentlewomen sat before my sister, and not knowing her, discoursed at their
ease. Says one, "Lord! how fine Mr. W. is!" "Yes," replied the other, with a tone of saying
sentences, "some men love to be particularly so, your petit-maîtres--but they are not always
the brightest of their sex."--Do thank me for this period! I am sure you will enjoy it as much
as we did.

[Footnote 1: It was customary at this time for the galleries to call for a ballad called "The
Roast Beef of Old England" between the acts, or before or after the play.--WALPOLE.]

I shall be very glad of my things, and approve entirely of your precautions; Sir R. will be
quite happy, for there is no telling you how impatient he is for his Dominchin. Adieu!

BATTLE OF DETTINGEN--DEATH OF LORD WILMINGTON.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

HOUGHTON, July 4, 1743.

I hear no particular news here, and I don't pretend to send you the common news; for as I must
have it first from London, you will have it from thence sooner in the papers than in my letters.
There have been great rejoicings for the victory; which I am convinced is very considerable
by the pains the Jacobites take to persuade it is not. My Lord Carteret's Hanoverian articles
have much offended; his express has been burlesqued a thousand ways. By all the letters that
arrive, the loss of the French turns out more considerable than by the first accounts: they
have dressed up the battle into a victory for themselves--I hope they will always have such!
By their not having declared war with us, one should think they intended a peace. It is allowed
that our fine horse did us no honour: the victory was gained by the foot. Two of their princes
of the blood, the Prince de Dombes, and the Count d'Eu his brother, were wounded, and several
of their first nobility. Our prisoners turn out but seventy-two officers, besides the private
men; and by the printed catalogue, I don't think many of great family. Marshal Noailles' mortal
wound is quite vanished, and Duc d'Aremberg's shrunk to a very slight one. The King's glory
remains in its first bloom.

Lord Wilmington is dead.[1] I believe the civil battle for his post will be tough. Now we shall
see what service Lord Carteret's Hanoverians will do him. You don't think the crisis unlucky
for him, do you? If you wanted a Treasury, should you choose to have been in Arlington Street,
or driving by the battle of Dettingen? You may imagine our Court wishes for Mr. Pelham. I don't
know any one who wishes for Lord Bath but himself--I believe that is a pretty substantial wish.

[Footnote 1: Formerly Sir Spencer Compton, and successor of Sir R. Walpole at the Treasury.
He was succeeded by Mr. Pelham, a brother of the Duke of Newcastle.]

I have got the Life of King Theodore, but I don't know how to convey it--I will inquire for
some way.

We are quite alone. You never saw anything so unlike as being here five months out of place,
to the congresses of a fortnight in place; but you know the "Justum et tenacem propositi virum"[1]
can amuse himself without the "Civium ardor!" As I have not so much dignity of character to
fill up my time, I could like a little more company. With all this leisure, you may imagine
that I might as well be writing an ode or so upon the victory; but as I cannot build upon the
Laureate's[2] place till I know whether Lord Carteret or Mr. Pelham will carry the Treasury,
I have bounded my compliments to a slender collection of quotations against I should have any
occasion for them. Here are some fine lines from Lord Halifax's[3] poem on the battle of the
Boyne--

    The King leads on, the King does all inflame,
    The King;--and carries millions in the name.

[Footnote 1: A quotation from Horace, Odes iii. 3.]

[Footnote 2: The Poet Laureate was Colley Cibber.]

[Footnote 3: The celebrated Chancellor of the Exchequer, Charles Montagu, was raised to the
peerage as Earl of Halifax. In conjunction with Prior, he wrote the "Country and City Mouse,"
in ridicule of Dryden's "Hind and Panther."]

Then follows a simile about a deluge, which you may imagine; but the next lines are very good:

    So on the foe the firm battalions prest,
    And he, like the tenth wave, drove on the rest.
    Fierce, gallant, young, he shot through ev'ry place,
    Urging their flight, and hurrying on the chase,
    He hung upon their rear, or lighten'd in their face.

The next are a magnificent compliment, and, as far as verse goes, to be sure very applicable.

    Stop, stop! brave Prince, allay that generous flame;
    Enough is given to England and to Fame.
    Remember, Sir, you in the centre stand;
    Europe's divided interests you command,
    All their designs uniting in your hand.
    Down from your throne descends the golden chain
    Which does the fabric of our world sustain,
    That once dissolved by any fatal stroke,
    The scheme of all our happiness is broke.

Adieu! my dear Sir; pray for peace!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

HOUGHTON, Sept. 7, 1743.

My letters are now at their ne plus ultra of nothingness; so you may hope they will grow better
again. I shall certainly go to town soon, for my patience is worn out. Yesterday, the weather
grew cold; I put on a new waistcoat for its being winter's birthday--the season I am forced
to love; for summer has no charms for me when I pass it in the country.

We are expecting another battle, and a congress at the same time. Ministers seem to be flocking
to Aix la Chapelle: and, what will much surprise you, unless you have lived long enough not
to be surprised, is, that Lord Bolingbroke has hobbled the same way too--you will suppose,
as a minister for France; I tell you, no. My uncle [old Horace], who is here, was yesterday
stumping along the gallery with a very political march: my Lord asked him whither he was going.
Oh, said I, to Aix la Chapelle.

You ask me about the marrying Princesses. I know not a tittle. Princess Louisa seems to be
going, her clothes are bought; but marrying our daughters makes no conversation. For either
of the other two, all thoughts seem to be dropped of it. The Senate of Sweden design themselves
to choose a wife for their man of Lubeck.

The City, and our supreme governors, the mob, are very angry that there is a troop of French
players at Clifden. One of them was lately impertinent to a countryman, who thrashed him. His
Royal Highness sent angrily to know the cause. The fellow replied, "he thought to have pleased
his Highness in beating one of them, who had tried to kill his father and had wounded his brother."
This was not easy to answer.

I delight in Prince Craon's exact intelligence! For his satisfaction, I can tell him that numbers,
even here, would believe any story full as absurd as that of the King and my Lord Stair; or
that very one, if anybody will write it over. Our faith in politics will match any Neapolitan's
in religion. A political missionary will make more converts in a county progress than a Jesuit
in the whole empire of China, and will produce more preposterous miracles. Sir Watkin Williams,
at the last Welsh races, convinced the whole principality (by reading a letter that affirmed
it), that the King was not within two miles of the battle of Dettingen. We are not good at
hitting off anti-miracles, the only way of defending one's own religion. I have read an admirable
story of the Duke of Buckingham, who, when James II. sent a priest to him to persuade him to
turn Papist, and was plied by him with miracles, told the doctor, that if miracles were proofs
of a religion, the Protestant cause was as well supplied as theirs. We have lately had a very
extraordinary one near my estate in the country. A very holy man, as you might be, Doctor,
was travelling on foot, and was benighted. He came to the cottage of a poor dowager, who had
nothing in the house for herself and daughter but a couple of eggs and a slice of bacon. However,
as she was a pious widow, she made the good man welcome. In the morning, at taking leave, the
saint made her over to God for payment, and prayed that whatever she should do as soon as he
was gone she might continue to do all day. This was a very unlimited request, and, unless the
saint was a prophet too, might not have been very pleasant retribution. The good woman, who
minded her affairs, and was not to be put out of her way, went about her business. She had
a piece of coarse cloth to make a couple of shifts for herself and child. She no sooner began
to measure it but the yard fell a-measuring, and there was no stopping it. It was sunset before
the good woman had time to take breath. She was almost stifled, for she was up to her ears
in ten thousand yards of cloth. She could have afforded to have sold Lady Mary Wortley a clean
shift, of the usual coarseness she wears, for a groat halfpenny.

I wish you would tell the Princess this story. Madame Riccardi, or the little Countess d'Elbenino,
will doat on it. I don't think it will be out of Pandolfini's way, if you tell it to the little
Albizzi. You see I have not forgot the tone of my Florentine acquaintance. I know I should
have translated it to them: you remember what admirable work I used to make of such stories
in broken Italian. I have heard old Churchill tell Bussy English puns out of jest-books: particularly
a reply about eating hare, which he translated, "j'ai mon ventre plein de poil." Adieu!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, March 29, 1745.

I begged your brother to tell you what it was impossible for me to tell you. You share nearly
in our common loss! Don't expect me to enter at all upon the subject. After the melancholy
two months that I have passed, and in my situation, you will not wonder I shun a conversation
which could not be bounded by a letter--a letter that would grow into a panegyric, or a piece
of moral; improper for me to write upon, and too distressful for us both!--a death is only
to be felt, never to be talked over by those it touches!

I had yesterday your letter of three sheets: I began to flatter myself that the storm was blown
over, but I tremble to think of the danger you are in! a danger, in which even the protection
of the great friend you have lost could have been of no service to you. How ridiculous it seems
for me to renew protestations of my friendship for you, at an instant when my father is just
dead, and the Spaniards just bursting into Tuscany! How empty a charm would my name have, when
all my interest and significance are buried in my father's grave! All hopes of present peace,
the only thing that could save you, seem vanished. We expect every day to hear of the French
declaration of war against Holland. The new Elector of Bavaria is French, like his father;
and the King of Spain is not dead. I don't know how to talk to you. I have not even a belief
that the Spaniards will spare Tuscany. My dear child, what will become of you? whither will
you retire till a peace restores you to your ministry? for upon that distant view alone I repose!

We are every day nearer confusion. The King is in as bad humour as a monarch can be; he wants
to go abroad, and is detained by the Mediterranean affair; the inquiry into which was moved
by a Major Selwyn, a dirty pensioner, half-turned patriot, by the Court being overstocked with
votes. This inquiry takes up the whole time of the House of Commons, but I don't see what conclusion
it can have. My confinement has kept me from being there, except the first day; and all I know
of what is yet come out is, as it was stated by a Scotch member the other day, "that there
had been one (Matthews)[1] with a bad head, another (Lestock) with a worse heart, and four
(the captains of the inactive ships) with na heart at all." Among the numerous visits of form
that I have received, one was from my Lord Sandys: as we two could only converse upon general
topics, we fell upon this of the Mediterranean, and I made him allow, "that, to be sure, there
is not so bad a court of justice in the world as the House of Commons; and how hard it is upon
any man to have his cause tried there!"...

[Footnote 1: Admiral Matthews, an officer of great courage and skill, was Commander-in-chief
of the Mediterranean fleet. Lestock, his second in command, was also a skilful officer; but
the two were on bad terms, and when, in February, 1744, Matthews attacked the Spanish fleet,
Lestock disobeyed his signals, and by his misconduct deprived Matthews of a splendid victory,
which was clearly within his grasp. Court-martials were held on the conduct of both officers;
but the Admiralty was determined to crush Matthews, as being a member of the House of Commons
and belonging to the party of Opposition, and the consequence was that, though Lestock's misconduct
was clearly proved, he was acquitted, and Matthews was sentenced to be cashiered, and declared
incapable of any further employment in his Majesty's service. The whole is perhaps the most
disgraceful transaction in the history of the navy or of the country. (See the Editor's "History
of the British Navy," i. 203-214.)]

The town flocks to a new play of Thomson's called "Tancred and Sigismunda:" it is very dull;
I have read it. I cannot bear modern poetry; these refiners of the purity of the stage, and
of the incorrectness of English verse, are most wofully insipid. I had rather have written
the most absurd lines in Lee, than "Leonidas" or "The Seasons;" as I had rather be put into
the round-house for a wrong-headed quarrel, than sup quietly at eight o'clock with my grandmother.
There is another of these tame genius's, a Mr. Akenside, who writes Odes: in one he has lately
published, he says, "Light the tapers, urge the fire."[1] Had not you rather make gods "jostle
in the dark," than light the candles for fear they should break their heads? One Russel, a
mimic, has a puppet-show to ridicule Operas; I hear, very dull, not to mention its being twenty
years too late: it consists of three acts, with foolish Italian songs burlesqued in Italian.

[Footnote 1: Walpole's quotation, however, is incorrect; the poet wrote:

    Urge the warm bowl, and ruddy fire.]

There is a very good quarrel on foot between two duchesses: she of Queensberry sent to invite
Lady Emily Lenox to a ball: her Grace of Richmond, who is wonderfully cautious since Lady Caroline's
elopement [with Mr. Fox], sent word, "she could not determine." The other sent again the same
night: the same answer. The Queensberry then sent word, that she had made up her company, and
desired to be excused from having Lady Emily's: but at the bottom of the card wrote, "too great
a trust." You know how mad she is, and how capable of such a stroke. There is no declaration
of war come out from the other Duchess; but, I believe it will be made a national quarrel of
the whole illegitimate royal family.

It is the present fashion to make conundrums: there are books of them printed, and produced
at all assemblies: they are full silly enough to be made a fashion. I will tell you the most
renowned: "Why is my uncle Horace like two people conversing?--Because he is both teller and
auditor." This was Winnington's....

I will take the first opportunity to send Dr. Cocchi his translated book; I have not yet seen
it myself.

Adieu! my dearest child! I write with a house full of relations, and must conclude. Heaven
preserve you and Tuscany.

BATTLE OF FONTENOY--THE BALLAD OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, May 11, 1745.

I stayed till to-day, to be able to give you some account of the battle of Tournay: the outlines
you will have heard already. We don't allow it to be a victory on the French side: but that
is, just as a woman is not called Mrs. till she is married, though she may have had half-a-dozen
natural children. In short, we remained upon the field of battle three hours; I fear, too many
of us remain there still! without palliating, it is certainly a heavy stroke. We never lost
near so many officers. I pity the Duke [of Cumberland], for it is almost the first battle of
consequence that we ever lost. By the letters arrived to-day, we find that Tournay still holds
out. There are certainly killed Sir James Campbell, General Ponsonby, Colonel Carpenter, Colonel
Douglas, young Ross, Colonel Montagu, Gee, Berkeley, and Kellet. Mr. Vanburgh is since dead.
Most of the young men of quality in the Guards are wounded. I have had the vast fortune to
have nobody hurt, for whom I was in the least interested. Mr. Conway, in particular, has highly
distinguished himself; he and Lord Petersham, who is slightly wounded, are most commended;
though none behaved ill but the Dutch horse. There has been but very little consternation here:
the King minded it so little, that being set out for Hanover, and blown back into Harwich roads
since the news came, he could not be persuaded to return, but sailed yesterday with the fair
wind. I believe you will have the Gazette sent to-night; but lest it should not be printed
time enough, here is a list of the numbers, as it came over this morning:

British foot          1237 killed. Ditto horse             90 ditto. Ditto foot           
1968 wounded. Ditto horse            232 ditto. Ditto foot             457 missing. Ditto horse
18 ditto. Hanoverian foot        432 killed. Ditto horse             78 ditto. Ditto foot 
950 wounded. Ditto horse            192 ditto. Ditto horse and foot    53 missing. Dutch  
625 killed and wounded. Ditto                 1019 missing.

So the whole hors de combat is above seven thousand three hundred. The French own the loss
of three thousand; I don't believe many more, for it was a most rash and desperate perseverance
on our side. The Duke behaved very bravely and humanely; but this will not have advanced the peace.

However coolly the Duke may have behaved, and coldly his father, at least his brother [the
Prince of Wales] has outdone both. He not only went to the play the night the news came, but
in two days made a ballad. It is in imitation of the Regent's style, and has miscarried in
nothing but the language, the thoughts, and the poetry. Did not I tell you in my last that
he was going to act Paris in Congreve's "Masque"? The song is addressed to the goddesses.

    I.

    Venez, mes chères Déesses,
    Venez calmer mon chagrin;
    Aidez, mes belles Princesses,
    A le noyer dans le vin.
    Poussons cette douce Ivresse
    Jusqu'au milieu de la nuit,
    Et n'écoutons que la tendresse
    D'un charmant vis-à-vis.

    II.

    Quand le chagrin me dévore,
    Vite à table je me mets,
    Loin des objets que j'abhorre,
    Avec joie j'y trouve la paix.
    Peu d'amis, restes d'un naufrage
    Je rassemble autour de moi,
    Et je me ris de l'étalage
    Qu'a chez lui toujours un Roi.

    III.

    Que m'importe, que l'Europe
    Ait un, ou plusieurs tyrans?
    Prions seulement Calliope,
    Qu'elle inspire nos vers, nos chants
    Laissons Mars et toute la gloire;
    Livrons nous tous à l'amour;
    Que Bacchus nous donne à boire;
    A ces deux faisons la cour.

    IV.

    Passons ainsi notre vie,
    Sans rêver à ce qui suit;
    Avec ma chère Sylvie
    Le tems trop vîte me fuit.
    Mais si, par un malheur extrême,
    Je perdois cet objet charmant,
    Oui, cette compagnie même
    Ne me tiendroit un moment.

    V.

    Me livrant à ma tristesse,
    Toujours plein de mon chagrin,
    Je n'aurois plus d'allégresse
    Pour mettre Bathurst en train:
    Ainsi pour vous tenir en joie
    Invoquez toujours les Dieux,
    Qu'elle vive et qu'elle soit
    Avec nous toujours heureuse!

Adieu! I am in great hurry.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

[August 1, 1745.]

Dear George,--I cannot help thinking you laugh at me when you say such very civil things of
my letters, and yet, coming from you, I would fain not have it all flattery:

    So much the more, as, from a little elf,
    I've had a high opinion of myself,
    Though sickly, slender, and not large of limb.

With this modest prepossession, you may be sure I like to have you commend me, whom, after
I have done with myself, I admire of all men living. I only beg that you will commend me no
more: it is very ruinous; and praise, like other debts, ceases to be due on being paid. One
comfort indeed is, that it is as seldom paid as other debts.

I have been very fortunate lately: I have met with an extreme good print of M. de Grignan;[1]
I am persuaded, very like; and then it has his touffe ébourifée; I don't, indeed, know what
that was, but I am sure it is in the print. None of the critics could ever make out what Livy's
Patavinity is; though they are all confident it is in his writings. I have heard within these
few days what, for your sake, I wish I could have told you sooner--that there is in Belleisle's
suite the Abbé Perrin, who published Madame Sévigné's letters, and who has the originals in
his hands. How one should have liked to have known him! The Marshal[2] was privately in London
last Friday. He is entertained to-day at Hampton Court by the Duke of Grafton. Don't you believe
it was to settle the binding the scarlet thread in the window, when the French shall come in
unto the land to possess it? I don't at all wonder at any shrewd observations the Marshal has
made on our situation. The bringing him here at all--the sending him away now--in short, the
whole series of our conduct convinces me, that we shall soon see as silent a change as that
in "The Rehearsal," of King Usher and King Physician. It may well be so, when the disposition
of the drama is in the hands of the Duke of Newcastle--those hands that are always groping
and sprawling, and fluttering, and hurrying on the rest of his precipitate person. But there
is no describing him but as M. Courcelle, a French prisoner, did t'other day: "Je ne scais
pas," dit il, "je ne scaurois m'exprimer, mais il a un certain tatillonage." If one could conceive
a dead body hung in chains, always wanting to be hung somewhere else, one should have a comparative
idea of him.

[Footnote 1: M. de Grignan son-in-law to Mme. de Sévigné, the greater part of whose letters
are to his wife.]

[Footnote 2: The Maréchal de Belleisle and his younger brother, the Comte de Belleisle, were
the grandsons of Fouquet, the Finance Minister treated with such cruelty and injustice by Louis
XIV. The Parisians nicknamed the two brothers "Imagination" and "Common Sense." The Marshal
was joined with the Marshal de Broglie in the disastrous expedition against Prague in the winter
of 1742; when, though they succeeded in taking and occupying the city for a time, they were
afterwards forced to evacuate it; and though Belleisle conducted the retreat with great courage
and skill, the army, which had numbered fifty thousand men when it crossed the Rhine, scarcely
exceeded twelve thousand when it regained the French territory. (See the Editor's "History
of France under the Bourbons," c. xxv.)]

For my own part, I comfort myself with the humane reflection of the Irishman in the ship that
was on fire--I am but a passenger! If I were not so indolent, I think I should rather put in
practice the late Duchess of Bolton's geographical resolution of going to China, when Whiston
told her the world would be burnt in three years. Have you any philosophy? Tell me what you
think. It is quite the fashion to talk of the French coming here. Nobody sees it in any other
light but as a thing to be talked of, not to be precautioned against. Don't you remember a
report of the plague being in the City, and everybody went to the house where it was to see
it? You see I laugh about it, for I would not for the world be so unenglished as to do otherwise.
I am persuaded that when Count Saxe,[1] with ten thousand men, is within a day's march of London,
people will be hiring windows at Charing-cross and Cheapside to see them pass by. 'Tis our
characteristic to take dangers for sights, and evils for curiosities.

[Footnote 1: The great Maréchal Saxe, Commander-in-chief of the French army in Flanders during
the war of the Austrian succession.]

Adieu! dear George: I am laying in scraps of Cato against it may be necessary to take leave
of one's correspondents à la Romaine, and before the play itself is suppressed by a lettre
de cachet to the book-sellers.

P.S.--Lord! 'tis the first of August,[1] 1745, a holiday that is going to be turned out of
the almanack!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 6, 1745.

It would have been inexcusable in me, in our present circumstances, and after all I have promised
you, not to have written to you for this last month, if I had been in London; but I have been
at Mount Edgecumbe, and so constantly upon the road, that I neither received your letters,
had time to write, or knew what to write. I came back last night, and found three packets from
you, which I have no time to answer, and but just time to read. The confusion I have found,
and the danger we are in, prevent my talking of anything else. The young Pretender, at the
head of three thousand men, has got a march on General Cope, who is not eighteen hundred strong;
and when the last accounts came away, was fifty miles nearer Edinburgh than Cope, and by this
time is there. The clans will not rise for the Government: the Dukes of Argyll and Athol are
come post to town, not having been able to raise a man. The young Duke of Gordon sent for his
uncle, and told him he must arm their clan. "They are in arms."--"They must march against the
rebels."--"They will wait on the Prince of Wales." The Duke flew in a passion; his uncle pulled
out a pistol, and told him it was in vain to dispute. Lord Loudon, Lord Fortrose, and Lord
Panmure have been very zealous, and have raised some men; but I look upon Scotland as gone!
I think of what King William said to Duke Hamilton, when he was extolling Scotland: "My Lord,
I only wish it was a hundred thousand miles off, and that you was king of it!"

There are two manifestoes published, signed Charles Prince, Regent for his father, King of
Scotland, England, France, and Ireland. By one, he promises to preserve everybody in their
just rights; and orders all persons who have public monies in their hands to bring it to him;
and by the other dissolves the union between England and Scotland. But all this is not the
worst! Notice came yesterday, that there are ten thousand men, thirty transports, and ten men-of-war
at Dunkirk. Against this force we have--I don't know what--scarce fears! Three thousand Dutch
we hope are by this time landed in Scotland; three more are coming hither. We have sent for
ten regiments from Flanders, which may be here in a week, and we have fifteen men-of-war in
the Downs. I am grieved to tell you all this; but when it is so, how can I avoid telling you?
Your brother is just come in, who says he has written to you--I have not time to expiate.

My Lady O[rford] is arrived; I hear she says, only to endeavour to get a certain allowance.
Her mother has sent to offer her the use of her house. She is a poor weak woman. I can say
nothing to Marquis Ricardi, nor think of him; only tell him that I will when I have time.

My sister [Lady Maria Walpole] has married herself, that is, declared she will, to young Churchill.
It is a foolish match; but I have nothing to do with it. Adieu! my dear Sir; excuse my haste,
but you must imagine that one is not much at leisure to write long letters--hope if you can!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 20, 1745.

One really don't know what to write to you: the accounts from Scotland vary perpetually, and
at best are never very certain. I was just going to tell you that the rebels are in England;
but my uncle [old Horace] is this moment come in, and says, that an express came last night
with an account of their being at Edinburgh to the number of five thousand. This sounds great,
to have walked through a kingdom, and taken possession of the capital! But this capital is
an open town; and the castle impregnable, and in our possession. There never was so extraordinary
a sort of rebellion! One can't tell what assurances of support they may have from the Jacobites
in England, or from the French; but nothing of either sort has yet appeared--and if there does
not, never was so desperate an enterprise. One can hardly believe that the English are more
disaffected than the Scotch; and among the latter, no persons of property have joined them:
both nations seem to profess a neutrality. Their money is all gone, and they subsist merely
by levying contributions. But, sure, banditti can never conquer a kingdom! On the other hand,
what cannot any number of men do, who meet no opposition? They have hitherto taken no place
but open towns, nor have they any artillery for a siege but one-pounders. Three battalions
of Dutch are landed at Gravesend, and are ordered to Lancashire: we expect every moment to
hear that the rest are got to Scotland; none of our own are come yet. Lord Granville and his
faction persist in persuading the King, that it is an affair of no consequence; and for the
Duke of Newcastle, he is glad when the rebels make any progress, in order to confute Lord Granville's
assertions. The best of our situation is, our strength at sea: the Channel is well guarded,
and twelve men-of-war more are arrived from Rowley. Vernon, that simple noisy creature, has
hit upon a scheme that is of great service; he has laid Folkstone cutters all round the coast,
which are continually relieved, and bring constant notice of everything that stirs. I just
now hear that the Duke of Bedford declares that he will be amused no longer, but will ask the
King's leave to raise a regiment. The Duke of Montagu has a troop of horse ready, and the Duke
of Devonshire is raising men in Derbyshire. The Yorkshiremen, headed by the Archbishop [Herring]
and Lord Malton, meet the gentlemen of the county the day after to-morrow, to defend that part
of England. Unless we have more ill fortune than is conceivable, or the general supineness
continues, it is impossible but we must get over this. You desire me to send you news: I confine
myself to tell you nothing but what you may depend upon; and leave you in a fright rather than
deceive you. I confess my own apprehensions are not near so strong as they were; and if we
get over this, I shall believe that we never can be hurt; for we never can be more exposed
to danger. Whatever disaffection there is to the present family, it plainly does not proceed
from love to the other.

My Lady O[rford] makes little progress in popularity. Neither the protection of my Lady Pomfret's
prudery, nor of my Lady Townshend's libertinism, do her any service. The women stare at her,
think her ugly, awkward, and disagreeable; and what is worse, the men think so too. For the
height of mortification, the King has declared publicly to the Ministry, that he has been told
of the great civilities which he was said to show to her at Hanover; that he protests he showed
her only the common civilities due to any English lady that comes thither; that he never intended
to take any particular notice of her; nor had, nor would let my Lady Yarmouth. In fact, my
Lady Yarmouth peremptorily refused to carry her to court here; and when she did go with my
Lady Pomfret, the King but just spoke to her. She declares her intention of staying in England,
and protests against all lawsuits and violences; and says she only asks articles of separation,
and to have her allowance settled by any two arbitrators chosen by my brother and herself.
I have met her twice at my Lady Townshend's, just as I used at Florence. She dresses English
and plays at whist. I forgot to tell a bon-mot of Leheup on her first coming over; he was asked
if he would not go and see her? He replied, "No, I never visit modest women." Adieu! my dear
child! I flatter myself you will collect hopes from this letter.

DEFEAT OF COPE.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 27, 1745.

I can't doubt but the joy of the Jacobites has reached Florence before this letter. Your two
or three Irish priests, I forget their names, will have set out to take possession of abbey
lands here. I feel for what you will feel, and for the insulting things that will be said to
you upon the battle we lost in Scotland; but all this is nothing to what it prefaces. The express
came hither on Tuesday morning, but the Papists knew it on Sunday night. Cope lay in face of
the rebels all Friday; he scarce two thousand strong, they vastly superior, though we don't
know their numbers. The military people say that he should have attacked them. However, we
are sadly convinced that they are not such raw ragamuffins as they were represented. The rotation
that has been established in that country, to give all the Highlanders the benefit of serving
in the independent companies, has trained and disciplined them. Macdonald (I suppose, he from
Naples), who is reckoned a very experienced able officer, is said to have commanded them, and
to be dangerously wounded. One does not hear the Boy's personal valour cried up; by which I
conclude he was not in the action. Our dragoons most shamefully fled without striking a blow,
and are with Cope, who escaped in a boat to Berwick. I pity poor him, who with no shining abilities,
and no experience, and no force, was sent to fight for a crown! He never saw a battle but that
of Dettingen, where he got his red ribbon: Churchill, whose led-captain he was, and my Lord
Harrington, had pushed him up to his misfortune. We have lost all our artillery, five hundred
men taken--and three killed, and several officers, as you will see in the papers. This defeat
has frightened everybody but those it rejoices, and those it should frighten most; but my Lord
Granville still buoys up the King's spirits, and persuades him it is nothing. He uses his Ministers
as ill as possible, and discourages everybody that would risk their lives and fortunes with
him. Marshal Wade is marching against the rebels; but the King will not let him take above
eight thousand men; so that if they come into England, another battle, with no advantage on
our side, may determine our fate. Indeed, they don't seem so unwise as to risk their cause
upon so precarious an event; but rather to design to establish themselves in Scotland, till
they can be supported from France, and be set up with taking Edinburgh Castle, where there
is to the value of a million, and which they would make a stronghold. It is scarcely victualled
for a month, and must surely fall into their hands. Our coasts are greatly guarded, and London
kept in awe by the arrival of the guards. I don't believe what I have been told this morning,
that more troops are sent for from Flanders, and aid asked of Denmark.

Prince Charles has called a Parliament in Scotland for the 7th of October; ours does not meet
till the 17th, so that even in the show of liberty and laws they are beforehand with us. With
all this, we hear of no men of quality or fortune having joined him but Lord Elcho, whom you
have seen at Florence; and the Duke of Peith, a silly race horsing boy, who is said to be killed
in this battle. But I gather no confidence from hence: my father always said, "If you see them
come again, they will begin by their lowest people; their chiefs will not appear till the end."
His prophecies verify every day!

The town is still empty; on this point only the English act contrary to their custom, for they
don't throng to see a Parliament, though it is likely to grow a curiosity!...

GENERAL WADE IS MARCHING TO SCOTLAND--VIOLENT PROCLAMATION OF THE PRETENDER.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Oct. 21, 1745.

I had been almost as long without any of your letters as you had without mine; but yesterday
I received one, dated the 5th of this month, N.S.

The rebels have not left their camp near Edinburgh, and, I suppose, will not now, unless to
retreat into the Highlands. General Wade was to march yesterday from Doncaster for Scotland.
By their not advancing, I conclude that either the Boy and his council could not prevail on
the Highlanders to leave their own country, or that they were not strong enough, and still
wait for foreign assistance, which, in a new declaration, he intimates that he still expects.
One only ship, I believe, a Spanish one, is got to them with arms, and Lord John Drummond and
some people of quality on board. We don't hear that the younger Boy is of the number. Four
ships sailed from Corunna; the one that got to Scotland, one taken by a privateer of Bristol,
and one lost on the Irish coast; the fourth is not heard of. At Edinburgh and thereabouts they
commit the most horrid barbarities. We last night expected as bad here: information was given
of an intended insurrection and massacre by the Papists; all the Guards were ordered out, and
the Tower shut up at seven. I cannot be surprised at anything, considering the supineness of
the Ministry--nobody has yet been taken up!

The Parliament met on Thursday. I don't think, considering the crisis, that the House was very
full. Indeed, many of the Scotch members cannot come if they would. The young Pretender had
published a declaration, threatening to confiscate the estates of the Scotch that should come
to Parliament, and making it treason for the English. The only points that have been before
the House, the address and the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, met with obstructions from
the Jacobites. By this we may expect what spirit they will show hereafter. With all this, I
am far from thinking that they are so confident and sanguine as their friends at Rome. I blame
the Chutes extremely for cockading themselves: why take a part, when they are only travelling?
I should certainly retire to Florence on this occasion.

You may imagine how little I like our situation; but I don't despair. The little use they made,
or could make of their victory; their not having marched into England; their miscarriage at
the Castle of Edinburgh; the arrival of our forces, and the non-arrival of any French or Spanish,
make me conceive great hopes of getting over this ugly business. But it is still an affair
wherein the chance of battles, or perhaps of one battle, may decide.

I write you but short letters, considering the circumstances of the time; but I hate to send
you paragraphs only to contradict them again: I still less choose to forge events; and, indeed,
am glad I have so few to tell you.

My Lady O[rford] has forced herself upon her mother, who receives her very coolly: she talks
highly of her demands, and quietly of her methods: the fruitlessness of either will, I hope,
soon send her back--I am sorry it must be to you!

You mention Holdisworth:[1] he has had the confidence to come and visit me within these ten
days; and (I suppose, from the overflowing of his joy) talked a great deal and quick--with
as little sense as when he was more tedious.

[Footnote 1: A nonjuror, who travelled with Mr. George Pitt.--WALPOLE.]

Since I wrote this, I hear the Countess [of Orford] has told her mother, that she thinks her
husband the best of our family, and me the worst--nobody so bad, except you! I don't wonder
at my being so ill with her; but what have you done? or is it, that we are worse than anybody,
because we know more of her than anybody does? Adieu!

GALLANT RESISTANCE OF CARLISLE--MR. PITT ATTACKS THE MINISTRY.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Nov. 22, 1745.

For these two days we have been expecting news of a battle. Wade marched last Saturday from
Newcastle, and must have got up with the rebels if they stayed for him, though the roads are
exceedingly bad and great quantities of snow have fallen. But last night there was some notice
of a body of rebels being advanced to Penryth. We were put into great spirits by an heroic
letter from the Mayor of Carlisle, who had fired on the rebels and made them retire; he concluded
with saying, "And so I think the town of Carlisle has done his Majesty more service than the
great city of Edinburgh, or than all Scotland together." But this hero, who was grown the whole
fashion for four-and-twenty hours, had chosen to stop all other letters. The King spoke of
him at his levée with great encomiums; Lord Stair said, "Yes, sir, Mr. Patterson has behaved
very bravely." The Duke of Bedford interrupted him; "My lord, his name is not Paterson; that
is a Scotch name; his name is Patinson." But, alack! the next day the rebels returned, having
placed the women and children of the country in waggons in front of their army, and forcing
the peasants to fix the scaling-ladders. The great Mr. Pattinson, or Patterson (for now his
name may be which one pleases), instantly surrendered the town, and agreed to pay two thousand
pounds to save it from pillage. Well! then we were assured that the citadel could hold out
seven or eight days; but did not so many hours. On mustering the militia, there were not found
above four men in a company; and for two companies, which the ministry, on a report of Lord
Albemarle, who said they were to be sent from Wade's army, thought were there, and did not
know were not there, there was nothing but two of invalids. Colonel Durand, the governor, fled,
because he would not sign the capitulation, by which the garrison, it is said, has sworn never
to bear arms against the house of Stuart. The Colonel sent two expresses, one to Wade, and
another to Ligonier at Preston; but the latter was playing at whist with Lord Harrington at
Petersham. Such is our diligence and attention! All my hopes are in Wade, who was so sensible
of the ignorance of our governors, that he refused to accept the command, till they consented
that he should be subject to no kind of orders from hence. The rebels are reckoned up at thirteen
thousand; Wade marches with about twelve; but if they come southward, the other army will probably
be to fight them; the Duke is to command it, and sets out next week with another brigade of
Guards, the Ligonier under him. There are great apprehensions for Chester from the Flintshire-men,
who are ready to rise. A quartermaster, first sent to Carlisle, was seized and carried to Wade;
he behaved most insolently; and being asked by the general, how many the rebels were, replied,
"Enough to beat any army you have in England." A Mackintosh has been taken, who reduces their
formidability, by being sent to raise two clans, and with orders, if they would not rise, at
least to give out they had risen, for that three clans would leave the Pretender, unless joined
by those two. Five hundred new rebels are arrived at Perth, where our prisoners are kept.

I had this morning a subscription-book brought me for our parish; Lord Granville had refused
to subscribe. This is in the style of his friend Lord Bath, who has absented himself whenever
any act of authority was to be executed against the rebels.

Five Scotch lords are going to raise regiments à l'Angloise! resident in London, while the
rebels were in Scotland; they are to receive military emoluments for their neutrality!

The Fox man-of-war of 20 guns is lost off Dunbar. One Beavor, the captain, has done us notable
service: the Pretender sent to commend his zeal and activity, and to tell him, that if he would
return to his allegiance, he should soon have a flag. Beavor replied, "He never treated with
any but principals; that if the Pretender would come on board him, he would talk with him."
I must now tell you of our great Vernon: without once complaining to the Ministry, he has written
to Sir John Philipps, a distinguished Jacobite, to complain of want of provisions; yet they
do not venture to recall him! Yesterday they had another baiting from Pitt, who is ravenous
for the place of Secretary at War: they would give it him; but as a preliminary, he insists
on a declaration of our having nothing to do with the continent. He mustered his forces, but
did not notify his intention; only at two o'clock Lyttelton said at the Treasury, that there
would be business at the House. The motion was, to augment our naval force, which, Pitt said,
was the only method of putting an end to the rebellion. Ships built a year hence to suppress
an army of Highlanders, now marching through England! My uncle [old Horace] attacked him, and
congratulated his country on the wisdom of the modern young men; and said he had a son of two-and-twenty,
who, he did not doubt, would come over wiser than any of them. Pitt was provoked, and retorted
on his negotiations and grey-headed experience. At those words, my uncle, as if he had been
at Bartholomew fair, snatched off his wig, and showed his grey hairs, which made the august
senate laugh, and put Pitt out, who, after laughing himself, diverted his venom upon Mr. Pelham.
Upon the question, Pitt's party amounted but to thirty-six: in short, he has nothing left but
his words, and his haughtiness, and his Lytteltons, and his Grenvilles. Adieu!

THE REBEL ARMY HAS RETREATED FROM DERBY--EXPECTATION OF A FRENCH INVASION.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Dec. 9, 1745.

I am glad I did not write to you last post as I intended; I should have sent you an account
that would have alarmed you, and the danger would have been over before the letter had crossed
the sea. The Duke, from some strange want of intelligence, lay last week for four-and-twenty
hours under arms at Stone, in Staffordshire, expecting the rebels every moment, while they
were marching in all haste to Derby. The news of this threw the town into great consternation;
but his Royal Highness repaired his mistake, and got to Northampton, between the Highlanders
and London. They got nine thousand pounds at Derby, and had the books brought to them, and
obliged everybody to give them what they had subscribed against them. Then they retreated a
few miles, but returned again to Derby, got ten thousand pounds more, plundered the town, and
burnt a house of the Countess of Exeter. They are gone again, and go back to Leake, in Staffordshire,
but miserably harassed, and, it is said, have left all their cannon behind them, and twenty
waggons of sick. The Duke has sent General Hawley with the dragoons to harass them in their
retreat, and despatched Mr. Conway to Marshal Wade, to hasten his march upon the back of them.
They must either go to North Wales, where they will probably all perish, or to Scotland, with
great loss. We dread them no longer. We are threatened with great preparations for a French
invasion, but the coast is exceedingly guarded; and for the people, the spirit against the
rebels increases every day. Though they have marched thus into the heart of the kingdom, there
has not been the least symptom of a rising, nor even in the great towns of which they possessed
themselves. They have got no recruits since their first entry into England, excepting one gentleman
in Lancashire, one hundred and fifty common men, and two parsons, at Manchester, and a physician
from York. But here in London, the aversion to them is amazing: on some thoughts of the King's
going to an encampment at Finchley,[1] the weavers not only offered him a thousand men, but
the whole body of the Law formed themselves into a little army, under the command of Lord Chief
Justice Willes, and were to have done duty at St. James's, to guard the royal family in the
King's absence.

[Footnote 1: The troops which were being collected for the Duke of Cumberland, as soon as he
should arrive from the Continent, to march with against the Pretender, were in the meantime
encamped on Finchley Common near London. The march of the Guards to the camp is the subject
of one of Hogarth's best pictures.]

But the greatest demonstration of loyalty appeared on the prisoners being brought to town from
the Soleil prize: the young man is certainly Mr. Radcliffe's son; but the mob, persuaded of
his being the youngest Pretender, could scarcely be restrained from tearing him to pieces all
the way on the road, and at his arrival. He said he had heard of English mobs, but could not
conceive they were so dreadful, and wished he had been shot at the battle of Dettingen, where
he had been engaged. The father, whom they call Lord Derwentwater, said, on entering the Tower,
that he had never expected to arrive there alive. For the young man, he must only be treated
as a French captive; for the father, it is sufficient to produce him at the Old Bailey, and
prove that he is the individual person condemned for the last Rebellion, and so to Tyburn.

We begin to take up people, but it is with as much caution and timidity as women of quality
begin to pawn their jewels; we have not ventured upon any great stone yet! The Provost of Edinburgh
is in custody of a messenger; and the other day they seized an odd man, who goes by the name
of Count St. Germain. He has been here these two years, and will not tell who he is, or whence,
but professes that he does not go by his right name. He sings, plays on the violin wonderfully,
composes, is mad, and not very sensible. He is called an Italian, a Spaniard, a Pole; a somebody
that married a great fortune in Mexico, and ran away with her jewels to Constantinople; a priest,
a fiddler, a vast nobleman. The Prince of Wales has had unsatiated curiosity about him, but
in vain. However, nothing has been made out against him;[1] he is released; and, what convinces
me that he is not a gentleman, stays here, and talks of his being taken up for a spy.

[Footnote 1: In the beginning of the year 1755, on rumours of a great armament at Brest, one
Virette, a Swiss, who had been a kind of toad-eater to this St. Germain, was denounced to Lord
Holdernesse for a spy; but Mr. Stanley going pretty surlily to his lordship, on his suspecting
a friend of his, Virette was declared innocent, and the penitent secretary of state made him
the amende honorable of a dinner in form. About the same time, a spy of ours was seized at
Brest, but, not happening to be acquainted with Mr. Stanley, was broken upon the wheel.--WALPOLE.]

I think these accounts, upon which you may depend, must raise your spirits, and figure in Mr.
Chute's loyal journal.--But you don't get my letters: I have sent you eleven since I came to
town; how many of these have you received? Adieu!

BATTLE OF CULLODEN.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, April 25, 1746.

You have bid me for some time to send you good news--well! I think I will. How good would you
have it? must it be a total victory over the rebels; with not only the Boy, that is here, killed,
but the other, that is not here, too; their whole army put to the sword, besides an infinite
number of prisoners; all the Jacobite estates in England confiscated, and all those in Scotland--what
would you have done with them?--or could you be content with something much under this? how
much will you abate? will you compound for Lord John Drummond, taken by accident? or for three
Presbyterian parsons, who have very poor livings, stoutly refusing to pay a large contribution
to the rebels? Come, I will deal as well with you as I can, and for once, but not to make a
practice of it, will let you have a victory! My friend, Lord Bury, arrived this morning from
the Duke, though the news was got here before him; for, with all our victory, it was not thought
safe to send him through the heart of Scotland; so he was shipped at Inverness, within an hour
after the Duke entered the town, kept beating at sea five days, and then put on shore at North
Berwick, from whence he came post in less than three days to London; but with a fever upon
him, for which he had been twice blooded but the day before the battle; but he is young, and
high in spirits, and I flatter myself will not suffer from this kindness of the Duke: the King
has immediately ordered him a thousand pound, and I hear will make him his own aide-de-camp.
My dear Mr. Chute, I beg your pardon; I have forgot you have the gout, and consequently not
the same patience to wait for the battle, with which I, knowing the particulars, postpone it.

On the 16th, the Duke, by forced marches, came up with the rebels, a little on this side Inverness--by
the way, the battle is not christened yet; I only know that neither Prestonpans nor Falkirk
are to be godfathers. The rebels, who fled from him after their victory, and durst not attack
him, when so much exposed to them at his passage of the Spey, now stood him, they seven thousand,
he ten. They broke through Barril's regiment, and killed Lord Robert Kerr, a handsome young
gentleman, who was cut to pieces with above thirty wounds; but they were soon repulsed, and
fled; the whole engagement not lasting above a quarter of an hour. The young Pretender escaped;
Mr. Conway says, he hears, wounded: he certainly was in the rear. They have lost above a thousand
men in the engagement and pursuit; and six hundred were already taken; among which latter are
their French ambassador and Earl Kilmarnock. The Duke of Perth and Lord Ogilvie are said to
be slain; Lord Elcho was in a salivation, and not there. Except Lord Robert Kerr, we lost nobody
of note: Sir Robert Rich's eldest son has lost his hand, and about a hundred and thirty private
men fell. The defeat is reckoned total, and the dispersion general; and all their artillery
is taken. It is a brave young Duke! The town is all blazing round me, as I write, with fireworks
and illuminations: I have some inclination to wrap up half a dozen sky-rockets, to make you
drink the Duke's health. Mr. Dodington, on the first report, came out with a very pretty illumination;
so pretty, that I believe he had it by him, ready for any occasion....

TRIAL OF THE REBEL LORDS BALMERINO AND KILMARNOCK.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Aug. 1, 1746.

I am this moment come from the conclusion of the greatest and most melancholy scene I ever
yet saw! You will easily guess it was the Trials of the rebel Lords. As it was the most interesting
sight, it was the most solemn and fine: a coronation is a puppet-show, and all the splendour
of it idle; but this sight at once feasted one's eyes and engaged all one's passions. It began
last Monday; three parts of Westminster Hall were inclosed with galleries, and hung with scarlet;
and the whole ceremony was conducted with the most awful solemnity and decency, except in the
one point of leaving the prisoners at the bar, amidst the idle curiosity of some crowd, and
even with the witnesses who had sworn against them, while the Lords adjourned to their own
House to consult. No part of the royal family was there, which was a proper regard to the unhappy
men, who were become their victims. One hundred and thirty-nine Lords were present, and made
a noble sight on their benches frequent and full! The Chancellor [Hardwicke] was Lord High
Steward; but though a most comely personage with a fine voice, his behaviour was mean, curiously
searching for occasion to bow to the minister [Mr. Pelham] that is no peer, and consequently
applying to the other ministers, in a manner, for their orders; and not even ready at the ceremonial.
To the prisoners he was peevish; and instead of keeping up to the humane dignity of the law
of England, whose character it is to point out favour to the criminal, he crossed them, and
almost scolded at any offer they made towards defence. I had armed myself with all the resolution
I could, with the thought of their crimes and of the danger past, and was assisted by the sight
of the Marquis of Lothian in weepers for his son who fell at Culloden--but the first appearance
of the prisoners shocked me! their behaviour melted me! Lord Kilmarnock and Lord Cromartie
are both past forty, but look younger. Lord Kilmarnock is tall and slender, with an extreme
fine person: his behaviour a most just mixture between dignity and submission; if in anything
to be reprehended, a little affected, and his hair too exactly dressed for a man in his situation;
but when I say it is not to find fault with him, but to show how little fault there was to
be found. Lord Cromartie is an indifferent figure, appeared much dejected, and rather sullen:
he dropped a few tears the first day, and swooned as soon as he got back to his cell. For Lord
Balmerino, he is the most natural brave old fellow I ever saw: the highest intrepidity, even
to indifference. At the bar he behaved like a soldier and a man; at the intervals of form,
with carelessness and humour. He pressed extremely to have his wife, his pretty Peggy, with
him in the Tower. Lady Cromartie only sees her husband through the grate, not choosing to be
shut up with him, as she thinks she can serve him better by her intercession without: she is
big with child and very handsome: so are their daughters. When they were to be brought from
the Tower in separate coaches, there was some dispute in which the axe must go--old Balmerino
cried, "Come, come, put it with me." At the bar, he plays with his fingers upon the axe, while
he talks with the gentleman-gaoler; and one day somebody coming up to listen, he took the blade
and held it like a fan between their faces. During the trial, a little boy was near him, but
not tall enough to see; he made room for the child and placed him near himself.

When the trial began, the two Earls pleaded guilty; Balmerino not guilty, saying he could prove
his not being at the taking of the castle of Carlisle, as was laid in the indictment. Then
the King's counsel opened, and Serjeant Skinner pronounced the most absurd speech imaginable;
and mentioned the Duke of Perth, "who," said he, "I see by the papers is dead." Then some witnesses
were examined, whom afterwards the old hero shook cordially by the hand. The Lords withdrew
to their House, and returning, demanded of the judges, whether one point not being proved,
though all the rest were, the indictment was false? to which they unanimously answered in the
negative. Then the Lord High Steward asked the Peers severally, whether Lord Balmerino was
guilty! All said, "guilty upon honour," and then adjourned, the prisoner having begged pardon
for giving them so much trouble. While the Lords were withdrawn, the Solicitor-General Murray
(brother of the Pretender's minister) officiously and insolently went up to Lord Balmerino,
and asked him, how he could give the Lords so much trouble, when his solicitor had informed
him that his plea could be of no use to him? Balmerino asked the bystanders who this person
was? and being told he said, "Oh, Mr. Murray! I am extremely glad to see you; I have been with
several of your relations; the good lady, your mother, was of great use to us at Perth." Are
not you charmed with this speech? how just it was! As he went away, he said, "They call me
Jacobite; I am no more a Jacobite than any that tried me: but if the Great Mogul had set up
his standard, I should have followed it, for I could not starve." The worst of his case is,
that after the battle of Dumblain, having a company in the Duke of Argyll's regiment, he deserted
with it to the rebels, and has since been pardoned. Lord Kilmarnock is a Presbyterian, with
four earldoms in him, but so poor since Lord Wilmington's stopping a pension that my father
had given him, that he often wanted a dinner. Lord Cromartie was receiver of the rents of the
King's second son in Scotland, which, it was understood, he should not account for; and by
that means had six-hundred a-year from the Government: Lord Elibank, a very prating, impertinent
Jacobite, was bound for him in nine thousand pounds, for which the Duke is determined to sue him.

When the Peers were going to vote, Lord Foley withdrew, as too well a wisher; Lord Moray, as
nephew of Lord Balmerino--and Lord Stair,--as, I believe, uncle to his great-grandfather. Lord
Windsor, very affectedly, said, "I am sorry I must say, guilty upon my honour." Lord Stamford
would not answer to the name of Henry, having been christened Harry--what a great way of thinking
on such an occasion! I was diverted too with old Norsa, the father of my brother's concubine,
an old Jew that kept a tavern; my brother [Orford], as Auditor of the Exchequer, has a gallery
along one whole side of the court; I said, "I really feel for the prisoners!" old Issachar
replied, "Feel for them! pray, if they had succeeded, what would have become of all us?" When
my Lady Townsend heard her husband vote, she said, "I always knew my Lord was guilty, but I
never thought he would own it upon his honour." Lord Balmerino said, that one of his reasons
for pleading not guilty, was that so many ladies might not be disappointed of their show.

On Wednesday they were again brought to Westminster Hall, to receive sentence; and being asked
what they had to say, Lord Kilmarnock, with a very fine voice, read a very fine speech, confessing
the extent of his crime, but offering his principles as some alleviation, having his eldest
son (his second unluckily with him), in the Duke's army, fighting for the liberties of his
country at Culloden, where his unhappy father was in arms to destroy them. He insisted much
on his tenderness to the English prisoners, which some deny, and say that he was the man who
proposed their being put to death, when General Stapleton urged that he was come to fight,
but not to butcher; and that if they acted any such barbarity, he would leave them with all
his men. He very artfully mentioned Van Hoey's letter, and said how much he would scorn to
owe his life to such intercession.[1] Lord Cromartie spoke much shorter, and so low, that he
was not heard but by those who sat very near him; but they prefer his speech to the other.
He mentioned his misfortune in having drawn in his eldest son, who is prisoner with him; and
concluded with saying, "If no part of this bitter cup must pass from me, not mine, O God, but
thy will be done!" If he had pleaded not guilty, there was ready to be produced against him
a paper signed with his own hand, for putting the English prisoners to death.

[Footnote 1: In a subsequent letter Walpole attributes Lord Kilmarnock's complicity in the
rebellion partly to the influence of his mother, the Countess of Errol, and partly to his extreme
poverty. He says: "I don't know whether I told you that the man at the tennis-court protests
that he has known him dine with the man that sells pamphlets at Storey's Gate; 'and,' says
he, 'he would often have been glad if I would have taken him home to dinner.' He was certainly
so poor, that in one of his wife's intercepted letters she tells him she has plagued their
steward for a fortnight for money, and can get but three shillings." One cannot help remembering,
Ibit eo quo vis qui zonam perdidit. And afterwards, in relating his execution, he mentions
a report that the Duke of Cumberland charging him (certainly on misinformation) with having
promoted the adoption of "a resolution taken the day before the battle of Culloden" to put
the English prisoners to death, "decided this unhappy man's fate" by preventing his obtaining
a pardon.]

Lord Leicester went up to the Duke of Newcastle, and said, "I never heard so great an orator
as Lord Kilmarnock? if I was your grace I would pardon him, and make him paymaster."[1]

[Footnote 1: "I would make him paymaster." The paymaster at this time was Mr. Pitt.]

That morning a paper had been sent to the lieutenant of the Tower for the prisoners; he gave
it to Lord Cornwallis, the governor, who carried it to the House of Lords. It was a plea for
the prisoners, objecting that the late act for regulating the trials of rebels did not take
place till after their crime was committed. The Lords very tenderly and rightly sent this plea
to them, of which, as you have seen, the two Earls did not make use; but old Balmerino did,
and demanded council on it. The High Steward, almost in a passion, told him, that when he had
been offered council, he did not accept it. Do but think on the ridicule of sending them the
plea, and then denying them council on it! The Duke of Newcastle, who never let slip an opportunity
of being absurd, took it up as a ministerial point, in defence of his creature the Chancellor
[Hardwicke]; but Lord Granville moved, according to order, to adjourn to debate in the chamber
of Parliament, where the Duke of Bedford and many others spoke warmly for their having council;
and it was granted. I said their, because the plea would have saved them all, and affected
nine rebels who had been hanged that very morning; particularly one Morgan, a poetical lawyer.
Lord Balmerino asked for Forester and Wilbraham; the latter a very able lawyer in the House
of Commons, who, the Chancellor said privately, he was sure would as soon be hanged as plead
such a cause. But he came as council to-day (the third day), when Lord Balmerino gave up his
plea as invalid, and submitted, without any speech. The High Steward [Hardwicke] then made
his, very long and very poor, with only one or two good passages; and then pronounced sentence!

Great intercession is made for the two Earls: Duke Hamilton, who has never been at Court, designs
to kiss the King's hand, and ask Lord Kilmarnock's life. The King is much inclined to some
mercy; but the Duke, who has not so much of Caesar after a victory, as in gaining it, is for
the utmost severity. It was lately proposed in the city to present him with the freedom of
some company; one of the aldermen said aloud, "Then let it be of the Butchers!"[1] The Scotch
and his Royal Highness are not at all guarded in their expressions of each other. When he went
to Edinburgh, in his pursuit of the rebels, they would not admit his guards, alleging that
it was contrary to their privileges; but they rode in, sword in hand; and the Duke, very justly
incensed, refused to see any of the magistrates. He came with the utmost expedition to town,
in order for Flanders; but found that the Court of Vienna had already sent Prince Charles thither,
without the least notification, at which both King and Duke are greatly offended. When the
latter waited on his brother, the Prince carried him into a room that hangs over the wall of
St. James's Park, and stood there with his arm about his neck, to charm the gazing mob.

[Footnote 1: "The Duke," says Sir Walter Scott, "was received with all the honours due to conquest;
and all the incorporated bodies of the capital, from the Guild brethren to the Butchers, desired
the acceptance of the freedom of their craft, or corporation." Billy the Butcher was one of
his by-names.]

Murray, the Pretender's secretary, has made ample confessions: the Earl of Traquair, and Mr.
Barry, a physician, are apprehended, and more warrants are out; so much for rebels! Your friend,
Lord Sandwich, is instantly going ambassador to Holland, to pray the Dutch to build more ships.
I have received yours of July 19th, but you see have no more room left, only to say, that I
conceive a good idea of my eagle, though the seal is a bad one. Adieu!

P.S.--I have not room to say anything to the Tesi till next post; but, unless she will sing
gratis, would advise her to drop this thought.

THE BATTLE OF RANCOUX.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Oct. 14, 1746.

You will have been alarmed with the news of another battle lost in Flanders, where we have
no Kings of Sardinia. We make light of it; do not allow it to be a battle, but call it "the
action near Liege." Then we have whittled down our loss extremely, and will not allow a man
more than three hundred and fifty English slain out of the four thousand. The whole of it,
as it appears to me, is, that we gave up eight battalions to avoid fighting; as at Newmarket
people pay their forfeit when they foresee they should lose the race; though, if the whole
army had fought, and we had lost the day, one might have hoped to have come off for eight battalions.
Then they tell you that the French had four-and-twenty-pounders, and that they must beat us
by the superiority of their cannon; so that to me it is grown a paradox, to war with a nation
who have a mathematical certainty of beating you; or else it is still a stranger paradox, why
you cannot have as large cannon as the French.[1] This loss was balanced by a pompous account
of the triumphs of our invasion of Bretagne; which, in plain terms, I think, is reduced to
burning two or three villages and reimbarking: at least, two or three of the transports are
returned with this history, and know not what is become of Lestock and the rest of the invasion.
The young Pretender is landed in France, with thirty Scotch, but in such a wretched condition
that his Highland Highness had no breeches.

[Footnote 1: Marshal Saxe had inspired his army with confidence that a day of battle was sure
to be a day of victory, as was shown by the theatrical company which accompanied the camp.
After the performance on the evening of October 10th the leading actress announced that there
would be no performance on the morrow, because there was to be a battle, but on the 12th the
company would have the honour of presenting "The Village Clock." (See the Editor's "France
under the Bourbons," iii. 26.)]

I have received yours of the 27th of last month, with the capitulation of Genoa, and the kind
conduct of the Austrians to us their allies, so extremely like their behaviour whenever they
are fortunate. Pray, by the way, has there been any talk of my cousin, the Commodore, being
blameable in letting slip some Spanish ships?--don't mention it as from me, but there are whispers
of court-martial on him. They are all the fashion now; if you miss a post to me, I will have
you tried by a court-martial. Cope is come off most gloriously, his courage ascertained, and
even his conduct, which everybody had given up, justified. Folkes and Lascelles, two of his
generals, are come off too; but not so happily in the opinion of the world. Oglethorpe's sentence
is not yet public, but it is believed not to be favourable. He was always a bully, and is now
tried for cowardice. Some little dash of the same sort is likely to mingle with the judgment
on il furibondo Matthews; though his party rises again a little, and Lestock's acquittal begins
to pass for a party affair. In short, we are a wretched people, and have seen our best days!

I must have lost a letter, if you really told me of the sale of the Duke of Modena's pictures,
as you think you did; for when Mr. Chute told it me, it struck me as quite new. They are out
of town, good souls; and I shall not see them this fortnight; for I am here only for two or
three days, to inquire after the battle, in which not one of my friends were. Adieu!

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

WINDSOR, Oct. 24, 1746.

Well, Harry, Scotland is the last place on earth I should have thought of for turning anybody
poet: but I begin to forgive it half its treasons in favour of your verses, for I suppose you
don't think I am the dupe of the Highland story that you tell me: the only use I shall make
of it is to commend the lines to you, as if they really were a Scotchman's. There is a melancholy
harmony in them that is charming, and a delicacy in the thoughts that no Scotchman is capable
of, though a Scotchwoman might inspire it.[1] I beg, both for Cynthia's sake and my own, that
you would continue your De Tristibus till I have an opportunity of seeing your muse, and she
of rewarding her: Reprens la musette, berger amoureux! If Cynthia has ever travelled ten miles
in fairy-land, she must be wondrous content with the person and qualifications of her knight,
who in future story will be read of thus: Elmedorus was tall and perfectly well made, his face
oval, and features regularly handsome, but not effeminate; his complexion sentimentally brown,
with not much colour; his teeth fine, and forehead agreeably low, round which his black hair
curled naturally and beautifully. His eyes were black too, but had nothing of fierce or insolent;
on the contrary, a certain melancholy swimmingness, that described hopeless love rather than
a natural amorous languish. His exploits in war, where he always fought by the side of the
renowned Paladine William of England, have endeared his memory to all admirers of true chivalry,
as the mournful elegies which he poured out among the desert rocks of Caledonia in honour of
the peerless lady and his heart's idol, the incomparable Cynthia, will for ever preserve his
name in the flowery annals of poesy.

[Footnote 1: Walpole could not foresee the genius of Burns, that before his own death was to
shed such glory on Scotland. His compliment to a Scotchwoman was an allusion to Lady Aylesbury
(née Miss Caroline Campbell), whom Conway married after her husband's death, which took place
a few months after the date of this letter. Lady Aylesbury was no poetess, but his estimate
of what might be accomplished by Scotch ladies was afterwards fully borne out by Lady Anne
Lindsay, the authoress of "Auld Gray," and Lady Nairn.]

What a pity it is I was not born in the golden age of Louis the Fourteenth, when it was not
only the fashion to write folios, but to read them too! or rather, it is a pity the same fashion
don't subsist now, when one need not be at the trouble of invention, nor of turning the whole
Roman history into romance for want of proper heroes. Your campaign in Scotland, rolled out
and well be-epitheted, would make a pompous work, and make one's fortune; at sixpence a number,
one should have all the damsels within the liberties for subscribers: whereas now, if one has
a mind to be read, one must write metaphysical poems in blank verse, which, though I own to
be still easier, have not half the imagination of romances, and are dull without any agreeable
absurdity. Only think of the gravity of this wise age, that have exploded "Cleopatra and Pharamond,"
and approve "The Pleasures of the Imagination," "The Art of Preserving Health," and "Leonidas!"
I beg the age's pardon: it has done approving these poems, and has forgot them.

Adieu! dear Harry. Thank you seriously for the poem. I am going to town for the birthday, and
shall return hither till the Parliament meets; I suppose there is no doubt of our meeting then.

Yours ever.

P.S.--Now you are at Stirling, if you should meet with Drummond's History of the five King
Jameses, pray look it over. I have lately read it, and like it much. It is wrote in imitation
of Livy; the style masculine, and the whole very sensible; only he ascribes the misfortunes
of one reign to the then king's loving architecture and

    In trim gardens taking pleasure.

HE HAS BOUGHT STRAWBERRY HILL.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

TWICKENHAM, June 8, 1747.

You perceive by my date that I am got into a new camp, and have left my tub at Windsor. It
is a little plaything-house that I got out of Mrs. Chenevix's shop, and is the prettiest bauble
you ever saw. It is set in enamelled meadows, with filigree hedges:

    A small Euphrates through the piece is told,
    And little finches wave their wings in gold.

Two delightful roads, that you would call dusty, supply me continually with coaches and chaises:
barges as solemn as Barons of the Exchequer move under my window; Richmond Hill and Ham walks
bound my prospect; but, thank God! the Thames is between me and the Duchess of Queensberry.
Dowagers as plenty as flounders inhabit all around, and Pope's ghost is just now skimming under
my window by a most poetical moonlight. I have about land enough to keep such a farm as Noah's,
when he set up in the ark with a pair of each kind; but my cottage is rather cleaner than I
believe his was after they had been cooped up together forty days. The Chenevixes had tricked
it out for themselves: up two pair of stairs is what they call Mr. Chenevix's library, furnished
with three maps, one shelf, a bust of Sir Isaac Newton, and a lame telescope without any glasses.
Lord John Sackville predecessed me here, and instituted certain games called cricketalia, which
have been celebrated this very evening in honour of him in a neighbouring meadow.

You will think I have removed my philosophy from Windsor with my tea-things hither; for I am
writing to you in all this tranquillity, while a Parliament is bursting about my ears. You
know it is going to be dissolved: I am told, you are taken care of, though I don't know where,
nor whether anybody that chooses you will quarrel with me because he does choose you, as that
little bug the Marquis of Rockingham did; one of the calamities of my life which I have bore
as abominably well as I do most about which I don't care. They say the Prince has taken up
two hundred thousand pounds, to carry elections which he won't carry:--he had much better have
saved it to buy the Parliament after it is chosen. A new set of peers are in embryo, to add
more dignity to the silence of the House of Lords.

I made no remarks on your campaign, because, as you say, you do nothing at all; which, though
very proper nutriment for a thinking head, does not do quite so well to write upon. If any
one of you can but contrive to be shot upon your post, it is all we desire, shall look upon
it as a great curiosity, and will take care to set up a monument to the person so slain; as
we are doing by vote to Captain Cornewall, who was killed at the beginning of the action in
the Mediterranean four years ago. In the present dearth of glory, he is canonized; though,
poor man! he had been tried twice the year before for cowardice.

I could tell you much election news, none else; though not being thoroughly attentive to so
important a subject, as to be sure one ought to be, I might now and then mistake, and give
you a candidate for Durham in place of one for Southampton, or name the returning officer instead
of the candidate. In general, I believe, it is much as usual--those sold in detail that afterwards
will be sold in the representation--the ministers bribing Jacobites to choose friends of their
own--the name of well-wishers to the present establishment, and patriots outbidding ministers
that they may make the better market of their own patriotism:--in short, all England, under
some name or other, is just now to be bought and sold; though, whenever we become posterity
and forefathers, we shall be in high repute for wisdom and virtue. My great-great-grandchildren
will figure me with a white beard down to my girdle; and Mr. Pitt's will believe him unspotted
enough to have walked over nine hundred hot ploughshares, without hurting the sole of his foot.
How merry my ghost will be, and shake its ears to hear itself quoted as a person of consummate
prudence! Adieu, dear Harry!

Yours ever.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Aug. 29, 1748.

Dear Harry,--Whatever you may think, a campaign at Twickenham furnishes as little matter for
a letter as an abortive one in Flanders. I can't say indeed that my generals wear black wigs,
but they have long full-bottomed hoods which cover as little entertainment to the full.

There's General my Lady Castlecomer, and General my Lady Dowager Ferris! Why, do you think
I can extract more out of them than you can out of Hawley or Honeywood? Your old women dress,
go to the Duke's levée, see that the soldiers cock their hats right, sleep after dinner, and
soak with their led-captains till bed-time, and tell a thousand lies of what they never did
in their youth. Change hats for head-clothes, the rounds for visits, and led-captains for toad-eaters,
and the life is the very same. In short, these are the people I live in the midst of, though
not with; and it is for want of more important histories that I have wrote to you seldom; not,
I give you my word, from the least negligence. My present and sole occupation is planting,
in which I have made great progress and talked very learnedly with the nurserymen, except that
now and then a lettuce run to seed overturns all my botany, as I have more than once taken
it for a curious West Indian flowering shrub. Then the deliberation with which trees grow,
is extremely inconvenient to my natural impatience. I lament living in so barbarous an age,
when we are come to so little perfection in gardening. I am persuaded that a hundred and fifty
years hence it will be as common to remove oaks a hundred and fifty years old, as it is now
to transplant tulip roots.[1] I have even begun a treatise or panegyric on the great discoveries
made by posterity in all arts and sciences, wherein I shall particularly descant on the great
and cheap convenience of making trout-rivers--one of the improvements which Mrs. Kerwood wondered
Mr. Hedges would not make at his country-house, but which was not then quite so common as it
will be. I shall talk of a secret for roasting a wild boar and a whole pack of hounds alive,
without hurting them, so that the whole chase may be brought up to table; and for this secret,
the Duke of Newcastle's grandson, if he can ever get a son, is to give a hundred thousand pounds.
Then the delightfulness of having whole groves of humming-birds, tame tigers taught to fetch
and carry, pocket spying-glasses to see all that is doing in China, with a thousand other toys,
which we now look upon as impracticable, and which pert posterity would laugh in one's face
for staring at, while they are offering rewards for perfecting discoveries, of the principles
of which we have not the least conception! If ever this book should come forth, I must expect
to have all the learned in arms against me, who measure all knowledge backward: some of them
have discovered symptoms of all arts in Homer; and Pineda,[2] had so much faith in the accomplishments
of his ancestors, that he believed Adam understood all sciences but politics. But as these
great champions for our forefathers are dead, and Boileau not alive to hitch me into a verse
with Perrault, I am determined to admire the learning of posterity, especially being convinced
that half our present knowledge sprung from discovering the errors of what had formerly been
called so. I don't think I shall ever make any great discoveries myself, and therefore shall
be content to propose them to my descendants, like my Lord Bacon,[3] who, as Dr. Shaw says
very prettily in his preface to Boyle, "had the art of inventing arts:" or rather like a Marquis
of Worcester, of whom I have seen a little book which he calls "A Century of Inventions,"[4]
where he has set down a hundred machines to do impossibilities with, and not a single direction
how to make the machines themselves.

[Footnote 1: It is worth noting that these predictions that "it will be common to remove oaks
a hundred and fifty years old" has been verified many years since; at least, if not in the
case of oaks, in that of large elms and ashtrees. In 1850 Mr. Paxton offered to a Committee
of the House of Commons to undertake to remove the large elm which was standing on the ground
proposed for the Crystal Palace of the Exhibition of 1851, and his master, the Duke of Devonshire,
has since that time removed many trees of very large size from one part of his grounds to another;
and similarly the "making of trout rivers" has been carried out in many places, even in our
most distant colonies, by Mr. Buckland's method of raising the young fish from roe in boxes
and distributing them in places where they were needed.]

[Footnote 2: Pineda was a Spanish Jesuit of the seventeenth century, and a voluminous writer.]

[Footnote 3: It is a singular thing that this most eminent man should be so constantly spoken
of by a title which he never had. But, without stopping to discuss the propriety of representing
a Britiph peerage, honestly earned, and, in his case as Lord Chancellor, necessarily conferred,
as a "degradation," the mistake made is not that of continuing to call him Francis Bacon, a
name by which at one time he was known, but that of calling him "Lord Bacon," a title by which
he was never known for a single moment in his lifetime; while, if a great philosopher was really
"degraded" by a peerage, it is hard to see how the degradation would have been lessened by
the title being Lord Bacon, which it was not, rather than Viscount St. Albans, which it was.]

[Footnote 4: The "Biographie Universelle" (art. Newcomen) says of the Marquis: "Longtemps avant
lui [Neucomen] on avait remarqué la grande force expansive de la vapeur, et on avait imaginé
de l'employer comme puissance. On trouve déja cetté application proposée et même executée dans
un ouvrage publié en 1663, par le Marquis de Worcester, sous le titre bizarre, 'A Century of
Inventions.'"]

If I happen to be less punctual in my correspondence than I intend to be, you must conclude
I am writing my book, which being designed for a panegyric, will cost me a great deal of trouble.
The dedication with your leave, shall be addressed to your son that is coming, or, with Lady
Ailesbury's leave, to your ninth son, who will be unborn nearer to the time I am writing of;
always provided that she does not bring three at once, like my Lady Berkeley.

Well! I have here set you the example of writing nonsense when one has nothing to say, and
shall take it ill if you don't keep up the correspondence on the same foot. Adieu!

REJOICINGS FOR THE PEACE--MASQUERADE AT RANELAGH--MEETING OF THE PRINCES PARTY AND THE JACOBITES--PREVALENCE
OF DRINKING AND GAMBLING--WHITEFIELD.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, May 3, 1749.

I am come hither for a few days, to repose myself after a torrent of diversions, and am writing
to you in my charming bow-window with a tranquillity and satisfaction which, I fear, I am grown
old enough to prefer to the hurry of amusements, in which the whole world has lived for this
last week. We have at last celebrated the Peace, and that as much in extremes as we generally
do everything, whether we have reason to be glad or sorry, pleased or angry. Last Tuesday it
was proclaimed: the King did not go to St. Paul's, but at night the whole town was illuminated.
The next day was what was called "a jubilee-masquerade in the Venetian manner" at Ranelagh:
it had nothing Venetian in it, but was by far the best understood and the prettiest spectacle
I ever saw: nothing in a fairy tale ever surpassed it. One of the proprietors, who is a German,
and belongs to Court, had got my Lady Yarmouth to persuade the King to order it. It began at
three o'clock, and, about five, people of fashion began to go. When you entered, you found
the whole garden filled with masks and spread with tents, which remained all night very commodely.
In one quarter, was a May-pole dressed with garlands, and people dancing round it to a tabor
and pipe and rustic music, all masqued, as were all the various bands of music that were disposed
in different parts of the garden; some like huntsmen with French horns, some like peasants,
and a troop of harlequins and scaramouches in the little open temple on the mount. On the canal
was a sort of gondola, adorned with flags and streamers, and filled with music, rowing about.
All round the outside of the amphitheatre were shops, filled with Dresden china, japan, &c.,
and all the shopkeepers in mask. The amphitheatre was illuminated; and in the middle was a
circular bower, composed of all kinds of firs in tubs, from twenty to thirty feet high: under
them orange-trees, with small lamps in each orange, and below them all sorts of the finest
auriculas in pots; and festoons of natural flowers hanging from tree to tree. Between the arches
too were firs, and smaller ones in the balconies above. There were booths for tea and wine,
gaming-tables and dancing, and about two thousand persons. In short, it pleased me more than
anything I ever saw. It is to be once more, and probably finer as to dresses, as there has
since been a subscription masquerade, and people will go in their rich habits. The next day
were the fireworks, which by no means answered the expense, the length of preparation, and
the expectation that had been raised; indeed, for a week before, the town was like a country
fair, the streets filled from morning to night, scaffolds building wherever you could or could
not see, and coaches arriving from every corner of the kingdom. This hurry and lively scene,
with the sight of the immense crowd in the Park and on every house, the guards, and the machine
itself, which was very beautiful, was all that was worth seeing. The rockets, and whatever
was thrown up into the air, succeeded mighty well; but the wheels, and all that was to compose
the principal part, were pitiful and ill-conducted, with no changes of coloured fires and shapes:
the illumination was mean, and lighted so slowly that scarce anybody had patience to wait the
finishing; and then, what contributed to the awkwardness of the whole, was the right pavilion
catching fire, and being burnt down in the middle of the show. The King, the Duke, and Princess
Emily saw it from the Library, with their courts: the Prince and Princess, with their children,
from Lady Middlesex's; no place being provided for them, nor any invitation given to the library.
The Lords and Commons had galleries built for them and the chief citizens along the rails of
the Mall: the Lords had four tickets a-piece, and each Commoner, at first, but two, till the
Speaker bounced and obtained a third. Very little mischief was done, and but two persons killed:
at Paris, there were forty killed and near three hundred wounded, by a dispute between the
French and Italians in the management, who, quarrelling for precedence in lighting the fires,
both lighted at once and blew up the whole. Our mob was extremely tranquil, and very unlike
those I remember in my father's time, when it was a measure in the Opposition to work up everything
to mischief, the Excise and the French players, the Convention and the Gin Act. We are as much
now in the opposite extreme, and in general so pleased with the peace, that I could not help
being struck with a passage I read lately in Pasquier, an old French author, who says, "that
in the time of Francis I. the French used to call their creditors 'Des Anglois,' from the facility
with which the English gave credit to them in all treaties, though they had broken so many."
On Saturday we had a serenta at the Opera-house, called Peace in Europe, but it was a wretched
performance. On Monday there was a subscription masquerade, much fuller than that of last year,
but not so agreeable or so various in dresses. The King was well disguised in an old-fashioned
English habit, and much pleased with somebody who desired him to hold their cup as they were
drinking tea. The Duke had a dress of the same kind, but was so immensely corpulent that he
looked like Cacofogo, the drunken captain, in "Rule a Wife and have a Wife." The Duchess of
Richmond was a Lady Mayoress in the time of James I.; and Lord Delawarr, Queen Elizabeth's
porter, from a picture in the guard-chamber at Kensington: they were admirable masks. Lord
Rochford, Miss Evelyn, Miss Bishop, Lady Stafford, and Mrs. Pitt, were in vast beauty; particularly
the last, who had a red veil, which made her look gloriously handsome. I forgot Lady Kildare.
Mr. Conway was the Duke in "Don Quixote," and the finest figure I ever saw. Miss Chudleigh
was Iphigenia, but so naked that you would have taken her for Andromeda; and Lady Betty Smithson
[Seymour] had such a pyramid of baubles upon her head, that she was exactly the Princess of
Babylon in Grammont.

You will conclude that, after all these diversions, people begin to think of going out of town--no
such matter: the Parliament continues sitting, and will till the middle of June; Lord Egmont
told us we should sit till Michaelmas. There are many private bills, no public ones of any
fame. We were to have had some chastisement for Oxford, where, besides the late riots, the
famous Dr. King,[1] the Pretender's great agent, made a most violent speech at the opening
of the Ratcliffe Library. The ministry denounced judgment, but, in their old style, have grown
frightened, and dropped it. However, this menace gave occasion to a meeting and union between
the Prince's party and the Jacobites which Lord Egmont has been labouring all the winter. They
met at the St. Alban's tavern, near Pall Mall, last Monday morning, a hundred and twelve Lords
and Commoners. The Duke of Beaufort opened the assembly with a panegyric on the stand that
had been made this winter against so corrupt an administration, and hoped it would continue,
and desired harmony. Lord Egmont seconded this strongly, and begged they would come up to Parliament
early next winter. Lord Oxford spoke next; and then Potter with great humour, and to the great
abashment of the Jacobites, said he was very glad to see this union, and from thence hoped,
that if another attack like the last Rebellion should be made on the Royal Family, they would
all stand by them. No reply was made to this. Then Sir Watkyn Williams spoke, Sir Francis Dashwood,[2]
and Tom Pitt, and the meeting broke up. I don't know what this coalition may produce: it will
require time with no better heads than compose it at present, though the great Mr. Dodington
had carried to the conference the assistance of his. In France a very favourable event has
happened for us, the disgrace of Maurepas,[3] one of our bitterest enemies, and the greatest
promoter of their marine. Just at the beginning of the war, in a very critical period, he had
obtained a very large sum for that service, but which one of the other factions, lest he should
gain glory and credit by it, got to be suddenly given away to the King of Prussia.

[Footnote 1: Dr. King was Principal of St. Mary's Hall, Oxford, and one of the chief supports
of the Jacobite party after 1745.]

[Footnote 2: Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1761, through the influence of the Earl of Bute.
He was the owner of Medmenham Abbey, on the Thames, and as such, the President of the profligate
Club whose doings were made notorious by the proceedings against Wilkes, and who, in compliment
to him, called themselves the Franciscans.]

[Footnote 3: The Comte de Maurepas was the grandson of the Chancellor of France, M. de Pontchartrain.
When only fourteen years old Louis had made him Secretary of State for the Marine, as a consolation
to his grandfather for his dismissal; and he continued in office till the accession of Louis
XVI., when he was appointed Prime Minister. He was not a man of any statesmanlike ability;
but Lacretelle ascribes to him "les graces d'un esprit aimable et frivole qui avait le don
d'amuser un vieillard toujours porté à un elegant badinage" (ii. 53); and in a subsequent letter
speaks of him as a man of very lively powers of conversation.]

Sir Charles Williams[1] is appointed envoy to this last King: here is an epigram which he has
just sent over on Lord Egmont's opposition to the Mutiny Bill:

    Why has Lord Egmont 'gainst this bill
    So much declamatory skill
       So tediously exerted?
    The reason's plain: but t'other day
    He mutinied himself for pay,
       And he has twice deserted.

[Footnote 1: Sir Charles Hanbury Williams had represented Monmouth in Parliament, but in 1744
was sent as ambassador to Berlin, and from thence to St. Petersburg. He was more celebrated
in the fashionable world as the author of lyrical odes of a lively character.]

I must tell you a bon-mot that was made the other night at the serenata of "Peace in Europe"
by Wall,[1] who is much in fashion, and a kind of Gondomar. Grossatesta, the Modenese minister,
a very low fellow, with all the jackpuddinghood of an Italian, asked, "Mais qui est ce qui
représente mon maître?" Wall replied, "Mais, mon Dieu! L'abbé, ne sçavez vous pas que ce n'est
pas un opéra boufon?" and here is another bon-mot of my Lady Townshend: we were talking of
Methodists; somebody said, "Pray, Madam, is it true that Whitfield[2] has recanted?" "No, sir,
he has only canted."

[Footnote 1: General Wall was the Spanish ambassador, as Gondomar had been in the reign of
James I.]

[Footnote 2: Whitefield, while an undergraduate at Oxford, joined Wesley, who had recently
founded a sect which soon became known as the Methodists. But, after a time, Whitefield, who
was of a less moderate temper than Wesley, adopted the views known as Calvinistic, and, breaking
off from the Wesleyans, established a sect more rigid and less friendly to the Church.]

If you ever think of returning to England, as I hope it will be long first, you must prepare
yourself with Methodism. I really believe that by that time it will be necessary: this sect
increases as fast as almost ever any religious nonsense did. Lady Fanny Shirley has chosen
this way of bestowing the dregs of her beauty; and Mr. Lyttelton is very near making the same
sacrifice of the dregs of all those various characters that he has worn. The Methodists love
your big sinners, as proper subjects to work upon--and indeed they have a plentiful harvest--I
think what you call flagrancy was never more in fashion.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, March 11, 1750.

    Portents and prodigies are grown so frequent,
    That they have lost their name.

My text is not literally true; but as far as earthquakes go towards lowering the price of wonderful
commodities, to be sure we are overstocked. We have had a second, much more violent than the
first; and you must not be surprised if by next post you hear of a burning mountain sprung
up in Smithfield. In the night between Wednesday and Thursday last (exactly a month since the
first shock), the earth had a shivering fit between one and two; but so slight that, if no
more had followed, I don't believe it would have been noticed. I had been awake, and had scarce
dozed again--on a sudden I felt my bolster lift up my head; I thought somebody was getting
from under my bed, but soon found it was a strong earthquake, that lasted near half a minute,
with a violent vibration and great roaring. I rang my bell; my servant came in, frightened
out of his senses: in an instant we heard all the windows in the neighbourhood flung up. I
got up and found people running into the streets, but saw no mischief done: there has been
some; two old houses flung down, several chimneys, and much chinaware. The bells rung in several
houses. Admiral Knowles, who has lived long in Jamaica, and felt seven there, says this was
more violent than any of them: Francesco prefers it to the dreadful one at Leghorn. The wise
say,[1] that if we have not rain soon, we shall certainly have more. Several people are going
out of town, for it has nowhere reached above ten miles from London: they say, they are not
frightened, but that it is such fine weather, "Lord! one can't help going into the country!"
The only visible effect it has had, was on the Ridotto, at which, being the following night,
there were but four hundred people. A parson, who came into White's the morning of earthquake
the first, and heard bets laid on whether it was an earthquake or the blowing up of powder
mills, went away exceedingly scandalized, and said, "I protest, they are such an impious set
of people, that I believe if the last trumpet was to sound, they would bet puppet-show against
Judgment." If we get any nearer still to the torrid zone, I shall pique myself on sending you
a present of cedrati and orange-flower water: I am already planning a terreno for Strawberry Hill.

[Footnote 1: In an earlier letter Walpole mentions that Sir I. Newton had foretold a great
alteration in the English climate in 1750.]

The Middlesex election is carried against the Court: the Prince, in a green frock (and I won't
swear, but in a Scotch plaid waistcoat), sat under the Park-wall in his chair, and hallooed
the voters on to Brentford. The Jacobites are so transported, that they are opening subscriptions
for all boroughs that shall be vacant--this is wise! They will spend their money to carry a
few more seats in a Parliament where they will never have the majority, and so have none to
carry the general elections. The omen, however, is bad for Westminster; the High Bailiff went
to vote for the Opposition.

I now jump to another topic; I find all this letter will be detached scraps; I can't at all
contrive to hide the seams: but I don't care. I began my letter merely to tell you of the earthquake,
and I don't pique myself upon doing any more than telling you what you would be glad to have
told you. I told you too how pleased I was with the triumphs of another old beauty, our friend
the Princess. Do you know, I have found a history that has great resemblance to hers; that
is, that will be very like hers, if hers is but like it. I will tell it you in as few words
as I can. Madame la Maréchale l'Hôpital was the daughter of a seamstress; a young gentleman
fell in love with her, and was going to be married to her, but the match was broken off. An
old fermier-general, who had retired into the province where this happened, hearing the story,
had a curiosity to see the victim; he liked her, married her, died, and left her enough not
to care for her inconstant. She came to Paris, where the Maréchal de l'Hôpital married her
for her riches. After the Maréchal's death, Casimir, the abdicated King of Poland, who was
retired into France, fell in love with the Maréchale, and privately married her. If the event
ever happens, I shall certainly travel to Nancy, to hear her talk of ma belle fille la Reine
de France. What pains my Lady Pomfret would take to prove that an abdicated King's wife did
not take place of an English countess; and how the Princess herself would grow still fonder
of the Pretender for the similitude of his fortune with that of le Roi mon mari! Her daughter,
Mirepoix, was frightened the other night, with Mrs. Nugent's calling out, un voleur! un voleur!
The ambassadress had heard so much of robbing, that she did not doubt but dans ce pais cy,
they robbed in the middle of an assembly. It turned out to be a thief in the candle! Good night!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, April 2, 1750.

You will not wonder so much at our earthquakes as at the effects they have had. All the women
in town have taken them up upon the foot of Judgments; and the clergy, who have had no windfalls
of a long season, have driven horse and foot into this opinion. There has been a shower of
sermons and exhortations: Seeker, the Jesuitical Bishop of Oxford, began the mode. He heard
the women were all going out of town to avoid the next shock; and so, for fear of losing his
Easter offerings, he set himself to advise them to await God's good pleasure in fear and trembling.
But what is more astonishing, Sherlock, who has much better sense, and much less of the Popish
confessor, has been running a race with him for the old ladies, and has written a pastoral
letter, of which ten thousand were sold in two days; and fifty thousand have been subscribed
for, since the two first editions.

I told you the women talked of going out of town: several families are literally gone, and
many more going to-day and to-morrow; for what adds to the absurdity, is, that the second shock
having happened exactly a month after the former, it prevails that there will be a third on
Thursday next, another month, which is to swallow up London. I am almost ready to burn my letter
now I have begun it, lest you should think I am laughing at you: but it is so true, that Arthur
of White's told me last night, that he should put off the last ridotto, which was to be on
Thursday, because he hears nobody would come to it. I have advised several, who are going to
keep their next earthquake in the country, to take the bark for it, as it is so periodic.[1]
Dick Leveson and Mr. Rigby, who had supped and stayed late at Bedford House the other night,
knocked at several doors, and in a watchman's voice cried, "Past four o'clock, and a dreadful
earthquake!"...

[Footnote 1: "I remember," says Addison, in the 240th Tatler, "when our whole island was shaken
with an earthquake some years ago, that there was an impudent mountebank who sold pills, which,
as he told the country people, were 'very good against an earthquake.'"]

This frantic terror prevails so much, that within these three days seven hundred and thirty
coaches have been counted passing Hyde Park corner, with whole parties removing into the country.
Here is a good advertisement which I cut out of the papers to-day:--

     "On Monday next will be published (price 6d.) A true and exact
     List of all the Nobility and Gentry who have left, or shall leave,
     this place through fear of another Earthquake."

Several women have made earthquake gowns; that is, warm gowns to sit out of doors all to-night.
These are of the more courageous. One woman, still more heroic, is come to town on purpose:
she says, all her friends are in London, and she will not survive them. But what will you think
of Lady Catherine Pelham, Lady Frances Arundel, and Lord and Lady Galway, who go this evening
to an inn ten miles out of town, where they are to play at brag till five in the morning, and
then come back--I suppose, to look for the bones of their husbands and families under the rubbish.
The prophet of all this (next to the Bishop of London) is a trooper of Lord Delawar's, who
was yesterday sent to Bedlam. His colonel sent to the man's wife, and asked her if her husband
had ever been disordered before. She cried, "Oh dear! my lord, he is not mad now; if your lordship
would but get any sensible man to examine him, you would find he is quite in his right mind."...

I shall now go and show you Mr. Chute in a different light from heraldry, and in one in which
I believe you never saw him. He will shine as usual; but, as a little more severely than his
good-nature is accustomed to, I must tell you that he was provoked by the most impertinent
usage. It is an epigram on Lady Caroline Petersham, whose present fame, by the way, is coupled
with young Harry Vane.

    WHO IS THIS?

    Her face has beauty, we must all confess,
    But beauty on the brink of ugliness:
    Her mouth's a rabbit feeding on a rose;
    With eyes--ten times too good for such a nose!
    Her blooming cheeks--what paint could ever draw 'em?
    That paint, for which no mortal ever saw 'em.
    Air without shape--of royal race divine--
    'Tis Emily--oh! fie!--'tis Caroline.

Do but think of my beginning a third sheet! but as the Parliament is rising, and I shall probably
not write you a tolerably long letter again these eight months, I will lay in a stock of merit
with you to last me so long. Mr. Chute has set me too upon making epigrams; but as I have not
his art mine is almost a copy of verses: the story he told me, and is literally true, of an
old Lady Bingley:

    Celia now had completed some thirty campaigns,
    And for new generations was hammering chains;
    When whetting those terrible weapons, her eyes,
    To Jenny, her handmaid, in anger she cries,
    "Careless creature! did mortal e'er see such a glass!
    Who that saw me in this, could e'er guess what I was!
    Much you mind what I say! pray how oft have I bid you
    Provide me a new one? how oft have I chid you?"
    "Lord, Madam!" cried Jane, "you're so hard to be pleased!
    I am sure every glassman in town I have teased:
    I have hunted each shop from Pall Mall to Cheapside:
    Both Miss Carpenter's man, and Miss Banks's I've tried."
    "Don't tell me of those girls!--all I know, to my cost,
    Is, the looking-glass art must be certainly lost!
    One used to have mirrors so smooth and so bright,
    They did one's eyes justice, they heightened one's white,
    And fresh roses diffused o'er one's bloom--but, alas!
    In the glasses made now, one detests one's own face;
    They pucker one's cheeks up and furrow one's brow,
    And one's skin looks as yellow as that of Miss Howe!"

After an epigram that seems to have found out the longitude, I shall tell you but one more,
and that wondrous short. It is said to be made by a cow. You must not wonder; we tell as many
strange stories as Baker and Livy:

    A warm winter, a dry spring,
    A hot summer, a new King.

Though the sting is very epigrammatic, the whole of the distich has more of the truth than
becomes prophecy; that is, it is false, for the spring is wet and cold.

There is come from France a Madame Bocage,[1] who has translated Milton: my Lord Chesterfield
prefers the copy to the original; but that is not uncommon for him to do, who is the patron
of bad authors and bad actors. She has written a play too, which was damned, and worthy my
lord's approbation. You would be more diverted with a Mrs. Holman, whose passion is keeping
an assembly, and inviting literally everybody to it. She goes to the drawing-room to watch
for sneezes; whips out a curtsey, and then sends next morning to know how your cold does, and
to desire your company next Thursday.

[Footnote 1: Madame du Boccage published a poem in imitation of Milton, and another founded
on Gesner's "Death of Abel." She also translated Pope's "Temple of Fame;" but her principal
work was "La Columbiade." It was at the house of this lady, at Paris, in 1775, that Johnson
was annoyed at her footman's taking the sugar in his fingers and throwing it into his coffee.
She died in 1802.]

Mr. Whithed has taken my Lord Pembroke's house at Whitehall; a glorious situation, but as madly
built as my lord himself was. He has bought some delightful pictures too, of Claude, Caspar
and good masters, to the amount of four hundred pounds.

Good night! I have nothing more to tell you, but that I have lately seen a Sir William Boothby,
who saw you about a year ago, and adores you, as all the English you receive ought to do. He
is much in my favour.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, April 1, 1751.

How shall I begin a letter that will--that must--give you as much pain as I feel myself? I
must interrupt the story of the Prince's death, to tell you of two more, much more important,
God knows! to you and me! One I had prepared you for--but how will you be shocked to hear that
our poor Mr. Whithed is dead as well as my brother!...

I now must mention my own misfortune. Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday mornings, the physicians
and all the family of painful death (to alter Gray's phrase), were persuaded and persuaded
me, that the bark, which took great place, would save my brother's life--but he relapsed at
three o'clock on Thursday, and died last night. He ordered to be drawn and executed his will
with the greatest tranquillity and satisfaction on Saturday morning. His spoils are prodigious--not
to his own family! indeed I think his son the most ruined young man in England. My loss, I
fear, may be considerable, which is not the only motive of my concern, though, as you know,
I had much to forgive, before I could regret: but indeed I do regret. It is no small addition
to my concern, to fear or foresee that Houghton and all the remains of my father's glory will
be pulled to pieces! The widow-Countess immediately marries--not Richcourt, but Shirley, and
triumphs in advancing her son's ruin by enjoying her own estate, and tearing away great part
of his.

Now I will divert your private grief by talking to you of what is called the public. The King
and Princess are grown as fond as if they had never been of different parties, or rather as
people who always had been of different. She discountenances all opposition, and he all ambition.
Prince George, who, with his two eldest brothers, is to be lodged at St. James's, is speedily
to be created Prince of Wales. Ayscough, his tutor, is to be removed with her entire inclination
as well as with everybody's approbation. They talk of a Regency to be established (in case
of a minority) by authority of Parliament, even this session, with the Princess at the head
of it. She and Dr. Lee, the only one she consults of the late cabal, very sensibly burned the
late Prince's papers the moment he was dead. Lord Egmont, by seven o'clock the next morning,
summoned (not very decently) the faction to his house: all was whisper! at last he hinted something
of taking the Princess and her children under their protection, and something of the necessity
of harmony. No answer was made to the former proposal. Somebody said, it was very likely indeed
they should agree now, when the Prince could never bring it about; and so everybody went away
to take care of himself. The imposthumation is supposed to have proceeded, not from his fall
last year, but from a blow with a tennis-ball some years ago. The grief for the dead brother
is affectedly displayed. They cried about an elegy,[1] and added, "Oh, that it were but his
brother!" On 'Change they said, "Oh, that it were but the butcher[2]!"

[Footnote 1: The elegy alluded to, was probably the effusion of some Jacobite royalist.

Walpole's Memoirs of George II.]

[Footnote 2: A name given to the Duke of Cumberland for his severities to his prisoners after
the battle of Culloden.]

The Houses sit, but no business will be done till after the holidays. Anstruther's affair will
go on, but not with much spirit. One wants to see faces about again! Dick Lyttelton, one of
the patriot officers, had collected depositions on oath against the Duke for his behaviour
in Scotland, but I suppose he will now throw his papers into Hamlet's grave?

Prince George, who has a most amiable countenance, behaved excessively well on his father's
death. When they told him of it, he turned pale, and laid his hand on his breast. Ayscough
said, "I am afraid, Sir, you are not well!"--he replied, "I feel something here, just as I
did when I saw the two workmen fall from the scaffold at Kew." Prince Edward is a very plain
boy, with strange loose eyes, but was much the favourite. He is a sayer of things! Two men
were heard lamenting the death in Leicester Fields: one said, "He has left a great many small
children!"--"Ay," replied the other, "and what is worse, they belong to our parish!" But the
most extraordinary reflections on his death were set forth in a sermon at Mayfair chapel. "He
had no great parts (pray mind, this was the parson said so, not I), but he had great virtues;
indeed, they degenerated into vices: he was very generous, but I hear his generosity has ruined
a great many people: and then his condescension was such, that he kept very bad company."

Adieu! my dear child; I have tried, you see, to blend so much public history with our private
griefs, as may help to interrupt your too great attention to the calamities in the former part
of my letter. You will, with the properest good-nature in the world, break the news to the
poor girl, whom I pity, though I never saw. Miss Nicoll is, I am told, extremely to be pitied
too; but so is everybody that knew Whithed! Bear it yourself as well as you can!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, June 18, 1751.

I send my letter as usual from the Secretary's office, but of what Secretary I don't know.
Lord Sandwich last week received his dismission, on which the Duke of Bedford resigned the
next day, and Lord Trentham with him, both breaking with old Gower, who is entirely in the
hands of the Pelhams, and made to declare his quarrel with Lord Sandwich (who gave away his
daughter to Colonel Waldegrave) the foundation of detaching himself from the Bedfords. Your
friend Lord Fane comforts Lord Sandwich with an annuity of a thousand a-year--scarcely for
his handsome behaviour to his sister; Lord Hartington is to be Master of the Horse, and Lord
Albemarle Groom of the Stole; Lord Granville[1] is actually Lord President, and, by all outward
and visible signs, something more--in short, if he don't overshoot himself, the Pelhams have;
the King's favour to him is visible, and so much credited, that all the incense is offered
to him. It is believed that Impresario Holdernesse will succeed the Bedford in the foreign
seals, and Lord Halifax in those for the plantations. If the former does, you will have ample
instructions to negotiate for singers and dancers! Here is an epigram made upon his directorship:

[Footnote 1: Lord Granville, known as Lord Carteret during the lifetime of his mother, was
a statesman of the very highest ability, and was regarded with special favour by the King for
his power of conversing in German, then a very rare accomplishment.]

    That secrecy will now prevail
      In politics, is certain;
    Since Holdernesse, who gets the seals,
      Was bred behind the curtain.

The Admirals Rowley and Boscawen are brought into the Admiralty under Lord Anson, who is advanced
to the head of the board. Seamen are tractable fishes! especially it will be Boscawen's case,
whose name in Cornish signifies obstinacy, and who brings along with him a good quantity of
resentment to Anson. In short, the whole present system is equally formed for duration!

Since I began my letter, Lord Holdernesse has kissed hands for the seals. It is said that Lord
Halifax is to be made easy, by the plantations being put under the Board of Trade. Lord Granville
comes into power as boisterously as ever, and dashes at everything. His lieutenants already
beat up for volunteers; but he disclaims all connexions with Lord Bath, who, he says, forced
him upon the famous ministry of twenty-four hours, and by which he says he paid all his debts
to him. This will soon grow a turbulent scene--it is not unpleasant to sit upon the beach and
see it; but few people have the curiosity to step out to the sight. You, who knew England in
other times, will find it difficult, to conceive what an indifference reigns with regard to
ministers and their squabbles. The two Miss Gunnings,[1] and a late extravagant dinner at White's,
are twenty times more the subject of conversation than the two brothers [Newcastle and Pelham]
and Lord Granville. These are two Irish girls, of no fortune, who are declared the handsomest
women alive. I think their being two so handsome and both such perfect figures is their chief
excellence, for singly I have seen much handsomer women than either; however, they can't walk
in the park or go to Vauxhall, but such mobs follow them that they are generally driven away.
The dinner was a folly of seven young men, who bespoke it to the utmost extent of expense:
one article was a tart made of duke cherries from a hot-house; and another, that they tasted
but one glass out of each bottle of champagne. The bill of fare is got into print, and with
good people has produced the apprehension of another earthquake. Your friend St. Leger was
at the head of these luxurious heroes--he is the hero of all fashion. I never saw more dashing
vivacity and absurdity, with some flashes of parts. He had a cause the other day for ducking
a sharper, and was going to swear: the judge said to him, "I see, Sir, you are very ready to
take an oath." "Yes, my lord," replied St. Leger, "my father was a judge."

[Footnote 1: One of the Miss Gunnings had singular fortune. She was married to two Dukes--the
Duke of Hamilton, and, after his death, the Duke of Argyll. She refused a third, the Duke of
Bridgewater; and she was the mother of four--two Dukes of Hamilton and two Dukes of Argyll.
Her sister married the Earl of Coventry. In his "Memoirs of George III." Walpole mentions that
they were so poor while in Dublin that they could not have been presented to the Lord-Lieutenant
if Peg Woffington, the celebrated actress, had not lent them some clothes.]

We have been overwhelmed with lamentable Cambridge and Oxford dirges on the Prince's death:
there is but one tolerable copy; it is by a young Lord Stormont, a nephew of Murray, who is
much commended. You may imagine what incense is offered to Stone by the people of Christchurch:
they have hooked in, too, poor Lord Harcourt, and call him Harcourt the Wise! his wisdom has
already disgusted the young Prince; "Sir, pray hold up your head. Sir, for God's sake, turn
out your toes!" Such are Mentor's precepts!

I am glad you receive my letters; as I knew I had been punctual, it mortified me that you should
think me remiss. Thank you for the transcript from Bubb[1] de tristibus! I will keep your secret,
though I am persuaded that a man who had composed such a funeral oration on his master and
himself fully intended that its flowers should not bloom and wither in obscurity.

[Footnote 1: Bubb means Mr. Bubb Doddington, afterwards Lord Melcombe, who had written Mr.
Mann a letter of most extravagant lamentation on the death of the Prince of Wales. He was member
for Winchelsea, and left behind him a diary, which was published some years after his death,
and which throws a good deal of light on the political intrigues of the day.]

We have already begun to sell the pictures that had not found place at Houghton: the sale gives
no great encouragement to proceed (though I fear it must come to that!); the large pictures
were thrown away; the whole-length Vandykes went for a song! I am mortified now at having printed
the catalogue. Gideon the Jew, and Blakiston the independent grocer, have been the chief purchasers
of the pictures sold already--there, if you love moralizing!

Adieu! I have no more articles to-day for my literary gazette.

DESCRIPTION OF STRAWBERRY HILL--BILL TO PREVENT CLANDESTINE MARRIAGES.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, June 12, 1753.

I could not rest any longer with the thought of your having no idea of a place of which you
hear so much, and therefore desired Mr. Bentley to draw you as much idea of it as the post
would be persuaded to carry from Twickenham to Florence. The enclosed enchanted little landscape,
then, is Strawberry Hill; and I will try to explain so much of it to you as will help to let
you know whereabouts we are when we are talking to you; for it is uncomfortable in so intimate
a correspondence as ours not to be exactly master of every spot where one another is writing,
or reading, or sauntering. This view of the castle is what I have just finished, and is the
only side that will be at all regular. Directly before it is an open grove, through which you
see a field, which is bounded by a serpentine wood of all kind of trees, and flowering shrubs,
and flowers. The lawn before the house is situated on the top of a small hill, from whence
to the left you see the town and church of Twickenham encircling a turn of the river, that
looks exactly like a seaport in miniature. The opposite shore is a most delicious meadow, bounded
by Richmond Hill, which loses itself in the noble woods of the park to the end of the prospect
on the right, where is another turn of the river, and the suburbs of Kingston as luckily placed
as Twickenham is on the left: and a natural terrace on the brow of my hill, with meadows of
my own down to the river, commands both extremities. Is not this a tolerable prospect? You
must figure that all this is perpetually enlivened by a navigation of boats and barges, and
by a road below my terrace, with coaches, post-chaises, waggons, and horsemen constantly in
motion, and the fields speckled with cows, horses, and sheep. Now you shall walk into the house.
The bow-window below leads into a little parlour hung with a stone-colour Gothic paper and
Jackson's Venetian prints, which I could never endure while they pretended, infamous as they
are, to be after Titian, &c., but when I gave them this air of barbarous bas-reliefs, they
succeeded to a miracle: it is impossible at first sight not to conclude that they contain the
history of Attila or Tottila, done about the very aera. From hence, under two gloomy arches,
you come to the hall and staircase, which it is impossible to describe to you, as it is the
most particular and chief beauty of the castle. Imagine the walls covered with (I call it paper,
but it is really paper painted in perspective to represent) Gothic fretwork: the lightest Gothic
balustrade to the staircase, adorned with antelopes (our supporters) bearing shields; lean
windows fattened with rich saints in painted glass, and a vestibule open with three arches
on the landing-place, and niches full of trophies of old coats of mail, Indian shields made
of rhinoceros's hides, broadswords, quivers, longbows, arrows, and spears--all supposed to
be taken by Sir Terry Robsart in the holy wars. But as none of this regards the enclosed drawing,
I will pass to that. The room on the ground-floor nearest to you is a bedchamber, hung with
yellow paper and prints, framed in a new manner, invented by Lord Cardigan; that is, with black
and white borders printed. Over this is Mr. Chute's bedchamber, hung with red in the same manner.
The bow-window room one pair of stairs is not yet finished; but in the tower beyond it is the
charming closet where I am now writing to you. It is hung with green paper and water-colour
pictures; has two windows; the one in the drawing looks to the garden, the other to the beautiful
prospect; and the top of each glutted with the richest painted glass of the arms of England,
crimson roses, and twenty other pieces of green, purple, and historic bits. I must tell you,
by the way, that the castle, when finished, will have two-and-thirty windows enriched with
painted glass. In this closet, which is Mr. Chute's college of Arms, are two presses with books
of heraldry and antiquities, Madame Sévigné's Letters, and any French books that relate to
her and her acquaintance. Out of this closet is the room where we always live, hung with a
blue and white paper in stripes adorned with festoons, and a thousand plump chairs, couches,
and luxurious settees covered with linen of the same pattern, and with a bow-window commanding
the prospect, and gloomed with limes that shade half each window, already darkened with painted
glass in chiaroscuro, set in deep blue glass. Under this room is a cool little hall, where
we generally dine, hung with paper to imitate Dutch tiles.

I have described so much, that you will begin to think that all the accounts I used to give
you of the diminutiveness of our habitation were fabulous; but it is really incredible how
small most of the rooms are. The only two good chambers I shall have are not yet built: they
will be an eating-room and a library, each twenty by thirty, and the latter fifteen feet high.
For the rest of the house I could send it you in this letter as easily as the drawing, only
that I should have nowhere to live till the return of the post. The Chinese summer-house, which
you may distinguish in the distant landscape, belongs to my Lord Radnor. We pique ourselves
upon nothing but simplicity, and have no carvings, gildings, paintings, inlayings, or tawdry
businesses.

You will not be sorry, I believe, by this time to have done with Strawberry Hill, and to hear
a little news. The end of a very dreaming session has been extremely enlivened by an accidental
bill which has opened great quarrels, and those not unlikely to be attended with interesting
circumstances. A bill to prevent clandestine marriages,[1] so drawn by the Judges as to clog
all matrimony in general, was inadvertently espoused by the Chancellor; and having been strongly
attacked in the House of Commons by Nugent, the Speaker, Mr. Fox, and others, the last went
very great lengths of severity on the whole body of the law, and on its chieftain in particular,
which, however, at the last reading, he softened and explained off extremely. This did not
appease: but on the return of the bill to the House of Lords, where our amendments were to
be read, the Chancellor in the most personal terms harangued against Fox, and concluded with
saying that "he despised his scurrility as much as his adulation and recantation." As Christian
charity is not one of the oaths taken by privy-counsellors, and as it is not the most eminent
virtue in either of the champions, this quarrel is not likely to be soon reconciled. There
are natures whose disposition it is to patch up political breaches, but whether they will succeed,
or try to succeed in healing this, can I tell you?

[Footnote 1: These clandestine marriages were often called "Fleet marriages." Lord Stanhope,
describing this Act, states that "there was ever ready a band of degraded and outcast clergymen,
prisoners for debt or for crime, who hovered about the verge of the Fleet prison soliciting
customers, and plying, like porters, for employment.... One of these wretches, named Keith,
had gained a kind of pre-eminence in infamy. On being told there was a scheme on foot to stop
his lucrative traffic, he declared, with many oaths, he would still be revenged of the Bishops,
that he would buy a piece of ground and outbury them!" ("History of England," c. 31).]

The match for Lord Granville, which I announced to you, is not concluded: the flames are cooled
in that quarter as well as in others.

I begin a new sheet to you, which does not match with the other, for I have no more of the
same paper here. Dr. Cameron is executed, and died with the greatest firmness. His parting
with his wife the night before was heroic and tender: he let her stay till the last moment,
when being aware that the gates of the Tower would be locked, he told her so; she fell at his
feet in agonies: he said, "Madam, this was not what you promised me," and embracing her, forced
her to retire: then with the same coolness looked at the window till her coach was out of sight,
after which he turned about and wept. His only concern seemed to be at the ignominy of Tyburn:
he was not disturbed at the dresser for his body, or at the fire to burn his bowels.[1] The
crowd was so great, that a friend who attended him could not get away, but was forced to stay
and behold the execution; but what will you say to the minister or priest that accompanied
him? The wretch, after taking leave, went into a landau, where, not content with seeing the
Doctor hanged, he let down the top of the landau for the better convenience of seeing him embowelled!
I cannot tell you positively that what I hinted of this Cameron being commissioned from Prussia
was true, but so it is believed. Adieu! my dear child; I think this is a very tolerable letter
for summer!

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, May 19, 1756.

Nothing will be more agreeable to me than to see you at Strawberry Hill; the weather does not
seem to be of my mind, and will not invite you. I believe the French have taken the sun. Among
other captures, I hear the King has taken another English mistress, a Mrs. Pope, who took her
degrees in gallantry some years ago. She went to Versailles with the famous Mrs. Quon: the
King took notice of them; he was told they were not so rigid as all other English women are--mind,
I don't give you any part of this history for authentic; you know we can have no news from
France but what we run.[1] I have rambled so that I forgot what I intended to say; if ever
we can have spring, it must be soon: I propose to expect you any day you please after Sunday
se'nnight, the 30th: let me know your resolution, and pray tell me in what magazine is the
Strawberry ballad? I should have proposed an earlier day to you, but next week the Prince of
Nassau is to breakfast at Strawberry Hill, and I know your aversion to clashing with grandeur.

[Footnote 1: "During the winter England was stirred with constantly recurring alarms of a French
invasion.... Addresses were moved in both Houses entreating or empowering the King to summon
over for our defence some of his Hanoverian troops, and also some of hired Hessians--an ignominious
vote, but carried by large majorities" (Lord Stanhope, "History of England," c. 22).]

As I have already told you one mob story of a King, I will tell you another: they say, that
the night the Hanover troops were voted, he sent Schutz for his German cook, and said, "Get
me a very good supper; get me all de varieties; I don't mind expense."

I tremble lest his Hanoverians should be encamped at Hounslow; Strawberry would become an inn;
all the Misses would breakfast there, to go and see the camp!

My Lord Denbigh is going to marry a fortune, I forget her name; my Lord Gower asked him how
long the honey-moon would last? He replied, "Don't tell me of the honey-moon; it is harvest
moon with me." Adieu!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 17, 1756.

Lentulus (I am going to tell you no old Roman tale; he is the King of Prussia's aid-de-camp)
arrived yesterday, with ample confirmation of the victory in Bohemia.[1]--Are not you glad
that we have got a victory that we can at least call Cousin? Between six and seven thousand
Austrians were killed: eight Prussian squadrons sustained the acharnement, which is said to
have been extreme, of thirty-two squadrons of Austrians: the pursuit lasted from Friday noon
till Monday morning; both our countrymen, Brown and Keith, performed wonders--we seem to flourish
much when transplanted to Germany--but Germans don't make good manure here! The Prussian King
writes that both Brown and Piccolomini are too strongly intrenched to be attacked. His Majesty
ran to this victory; not à la Molwitz. He affirms having found in the King of Poland's cabinet
ample justification of his treatment of Saxony--should not one query whether he had not these
proofs in his hands antecedent to the cabinet? The Dauphiness[2] is said to have flung herself
at the King of France's feet and begged his protection for her father; that he promised "qu'il
le rendroit au centuple au Roi de Prusse."

[Footnote 1: On the 1st of the month Frederic II. had defeated the Austrian general, Marshal
Brown, at Lowositz. It was the first battle of the Seven Years' War, and was of great political
importance as leading to the capture of Dresden and of laying all Saxony at the mercy of the
conqueror. "À la Molwitz" is an allusion to the first battle in the war of the Austrian Succession,
April 10, 1741, in which Frederic showed that he was not what Voltaire and Mr. Pitt called
"a heaven-born general;" since on the repulse of his cavalry he gave up all for lost, and rode
from the field, to learn at night that, after his flight, his second in command, the veteran
Marshal Schwerin, had rallied the broken squadrons, and had obtained a decisive victory.]

[Footnote 2: The Dauphiness was the daughter of Augustus, King of Poland and Elector of Saxony.]

Peace is made between the courts of Kensington and Kew:[1] Lord Bute, who had no visible employment
at the latter, and yet whose office was certainly no sinecure, is to be Groom of the Stole
to the Prince of Wales; which satisfies. The rest of the family will be named before the birthday--but
I don't know how, as soon as one wound is closed, another breaks out! Mr. Fox, extremely discontent
at having no power, no confidence, no favour (all entirely engrossed by the old monopolist),
has asked leave to resign. It is not yet granted. If Mr. Pitt will--or can, accept the seals,
probably Mr. Fox will be indulged,--if Mr. Pitt will not, why then, it is impossible to tell
you what will happen. Whatever happens on such an emergency, with the Parliament so near, with
no time for considering measures, with so bad a past, and so much worse a future, there certainly
is no duration or good in prospect. Unless the King of Prussia will take our affairs at home
as well as abroad to nurse, I see no possible recovery for us--and you may believe, when a
doctor like him is necessary, I should be full as willing to die of the distemper.

[Footnote 1: "The courts of Kensington and Kew"--in other words, of the King and the Prince
of Wales and his mother, to whom George II. was not very friendly. A scandal, which had no
foundation, imputed to the Princess undue intimacy with the Earl of Bute, who, however, did
stand high in her good graces, and who probably was indebted to them for his appointment in
the next reign to the office of Prime Minister, for which he had no qualification whatever.]

Well! and so you think we are undone!--not at all; if folly and extravagance are symptoms of
a nation's being at the height of their glory, as after-observers pretend that they are forerunners
of its ruin, we never were in a more flourishing situation. My Lord Rockingham and my nephew
Lord Orford have made a match of five hundred pounds, between five turkeys and five geese,
to run from Norwich to London. Don't you believe in the transmigration of souls? And are not
you convinced that this race is between Marquis Sardanapalus and Earl Heliogabalus? And don't
you pity the poor Asiatics and Italians who comforted themselves on their resurrection with
their being geese and turkeys?

Here's another symptom of our glory! The Irish Speaker Mr. Ponsonby has been reposing himself
at Newmarket: George Selwyn, seeing him toss about bank-bills at the hazard-table said, "How
easily the Speaker passes the money-bills!"

You, who live at Florence among vulgar vices and tame slavery, will stare at these accounts.
Pray be acquainted with your own country, while it is in its lustre. In a regular monarchy
the folly of the Prince gives the tone; in a downright tyranny, folly dares give itself no
airs; it is in a wanton overgrown commonwealth that whim and debauchery intrigue best together.
Ask me which of these governments I prefer--oh! the last--only I fear it is the least durable.

I have not yet thanked you for your letter of September 18th, with the accounts of the Genoese
treaty and of the Pretender's quarrel with the Pope--it is a squabble worthy a Stuart. Were
he, here, as absolute as any Stuart ever wished to be, who knows with all his bigotry but he
might favour us with a reformation and the downfall of the mass? The ambition of making a Duke
of York vice-chancellor of holy church would be as good a reason for breaking with holy church,
as Harry the Eighth's was for quarrelling with it, because it would not excuse him from going
to bed to his sister after it had given him leave.

I wish I could tell you that your brother mends! indeed I don't think he does: nor do I know
what to say to him; I have exhausted both arguments and entreaties, and yet if I thought either
would avail, I would gladly recommence them. Adieu!

MINISTERIAL NEGOTIATIONS--LOSS OF MINORCA--DISASTER IN NORTH AMERICA.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Nov. 4, 1756.

I desired your brother last week to tell you that it was in vain for me to write while everything
was in such confusion. The chaos is just as far from being dispersed now; I only write to tell
you what has been its motions. One of the Popes, I think, said soon after his accession, he
did not think it had been so easy to govern. What would he have thought of such a nation as
this, engaged in a formidable war, without any government at all, literally, for above a fortnight!
The foreign ministers have not attempted to transact any business since yesterday fortnight.
For God's sake, what do other countries say of us?--but hear the progress of our interministerium.

When Mr. Fox had declared his determination of resigning, great offers were sent to Mr. Pitt;
his demands were much greater, accompanied with a total exclusion of the Duke of Newcastle.
Some of the latter's friends would have persuaded him, as the House of Commons is at his devotion,
to have undertaken the government against both Pitt and Fox; but fears preponderated. Yesterday
se'nnight his grace declared his resolution of retiring, with all that satisfaction of mind
which must attend a man whom not one man of sense will trust any longer. The King sent for
Mr. Fox, and bid him try if Mr. Pitt would join him. The latter, without any hesitation, refused.
In this perplexity the King ordered the Duke of Devonshire to try to compose some Ministry
for him, and sent him to Pitt, to try to accommodate with Fox. Pitt, with a list of terms a
little modified, was ready to engage, but on condition that Fox should have no employment in
the cabinet. Upon this plan negotiations have been carrying on for this week. Mr. Pitt and
Mr. Legge, whose whole party consists of from twelve to sixteen persons, exclusive of Leicester
House (of that presently), concluded they were entering on the government as Secretary of State
and Chancellor of the Exchequer: but there is so great unwillingness to give it up totally
into their hands, that all manner of expedients have been projected to get rid of their proposals,
or to limit their power. Thus the case stands at this instant: the Parliament has been put
off for a fortnight, to gain time; the Lord knows whether that will suffice to bring on any
sort of temper! In the meantime the government stands still; pray Heaven the war may too! You
will wonder how fifteen or sixteen persons can be of such importance. In the first place, their
importance has been conferred on them, and has been notified to the nation by these concessions
and messages; next, Minorca[1] is gone; Oswego gone;[2] the nation is in a ferment; some very
great indiscretions in delivering a Hanoverian soldier from prison by a warrant from the Secretary
of State have raised great difficulties; instructions from counties, boroughs, especially from
the City of London, in the style of 1641, and really in the spirit of 1715 and 1745, have raised
a great flame; and lastly, the countenance of Leicester House, which Mr. Pitt is supposed to
have, and which Mr. Legge thinks he has, all these tell Pitt that he may command such numbers
without doors as may make the majorities within the House tremble.

[Footnote 1: Minorca had been taken by the Duc de Richelieu; Admiral Byng, after an indecisive
action with the French fleet, having adopted the idea that he should not be able to save it,
for which, as is too well known, he was condemned to death by a court-martial.]

[Footnote 2: "Oswego gone." "A detachment of the enemy was defeated by Colonel Broadstreet
on the river Onondaga; on the other hand, the small forts of Ontario and Oswego were reduced
by the French" (Lord Stanhope, "History of England," c. 33).]

Leicester House[1] is by some thought inclined to more pacific measures. Lord Bute's being
established Groom of the Stole has satisfied. They seem more occupied in disobliging all their
new court than in disturbing the King's. Lord Huntingdon, the new Master of the Horse to the
Prince, and Lord Pembroke, one of his Lords, have not been spoken to. Alas! if the present
storms should blow over, what seeds for new! You must guess at the sense of this paragraph,
which it is difficult, at least improper, to explain to you; though you could not go into a
coffee-house here where it would not be interpreted to you. One would think all those little
politicians had been reading the Memoirs of the minority of Louis XIV.

[Footnote 1: Leicester House was the London residence of the young Prince of Wales.]

There has been another great difficulty: the season obliging all camps to break up, the poor
Hanoverians have been forced to continue soaking in theirs. The county magistrates have been
advised that they are not obliged by law to billet foreigners on public-houses, and have refused.
Transports were yesterday ordered to carry away the Hanoverians! There are eight thousand men
taken from America; for I am sure we can spare none from hence. The negligence and dilatoriness
of the ministers at home, the wickedness of our West Indian governors, and the little-minded
quarrels of the regulars and irregular forces, have reduced our affairs in that part of the
world to a most deplorable state. Oswego, of ten times more importance even than Minorca, is
so annihilated that we cannot learn the particulars.

My dear Sir, what a present and future picture have I given you! The details are infinite,
and what I have neither time, nor, for many reasons, the imprudence to send by the post: your
good sense will but too well lead you to develop them. The crisis is most melancholy and alarming.
I remember two or three years ago I wished for more active times, and for events to furnish
our correspondence. I think I could write you a letter almost as big as my Lord Clarendon's
History. What a bold man is he who shall undertake the administration! How much shall we be
obliged to him! How mad is he, whoever is ambitious of it! Adieu!

THE KING OF PRUSSIA'S VICTORIES--VOLTAIRE'S "UNIVERSAL HISTORY."

TO THE EARL OF STRAFFORD.

STRAWBERRY HILL, July 4, 1757.

My Dear Lord,--It is well I have not obeyed you sooner, as I have often been going to do: what
a heap of lies and contradictions I should have sent you! What joint ministries and sole ministries!
What acceptances and resignations!--Viziers and bowstrings never succeeded one another quicker.
Luckily I have stayed till we have got an administration that will last a little more than
for ever. There is such content and harmony in it, that I don't know whether it is not as perfect
as a plan which I formed for Charles Stanhope, after he had plagued me for two days for news.
I told him the Duke of Newcastle was to take orders, and have the reversion of the bishopric
of Winchester; that Mr. Pitt was to have a regiment, and go over to the Duke; and Mr. Fox to
be chamberlain to the Princess, in the room of Sir William Irby. Of all the new system I believe
the happiest is Offley; though in great humility he says he only takes the bedchamber to accommodate.
Next to him in joy is the Earl of Holdernesse--who has not got the garter. My Lord Waldegrave
has; and the garter by this time I believe has got fifty spots.

Had I written sooner, I should have told your lordship, too, of the King of Prussia's triumphs[1]--but
they are addled too! I hoped to have had a few bricks from Prague to send you towards building
Mr. Bentley's design, but I fear none will come from thence this summer. Thank God, the happiness
of the menagerie does not depend upon administrations or victories! The happiest of beings
in this part of the world is my Lady Suffolk: I really think her acquisition and conclusion
of her law-suit will lengthen her life ten years. You may be sure I am not so satisfied, as
Lady Mary [Coke] has left Sudbroke.

[Footnote 1: On the 6th of May Frederic defeated the Austrian army under Prince Charles of
Lorraine and Marshal Brown in the battle of Prague. Brown was killed, as also was the Prussian
Marshal, Schwerin; indeed, the King lost eighteen thousand men--nearly as many as had fallen
on the side of the enemy; and the Austrian disaster was more than retrieved by the great victory
of Kolin, gained by Marshal Daun, June 18th, to which Walpole probably alludes when he says
Frederic's "triumphs are addled."]

Are your charming lawns burnt up like our humble hills? Is your sweet river as low as our deserted
Thames?--I am wishing for a handful or two of those floods that drowned me last year all the
way from Wentworth Castle. I beg my best compliments to my lady, and my best wishes that every
pheasant egg and peacock egg may produce as many colours as a harlequin-jacket.

Tuesday, July 5th.

Luckily, my good lord, my conscience had saved its distance. I had writ the above last night,
when I received the honour of your kind letter this morning. You had, as I did not doubt, received
accounts of all our strange histories. For that of the pretty Countess [of Coventry], I fear
there is too much truth in all you have heard: but you don't seem to know that Lord Corydon
and Captain Corydon his brother have been most abominable. I don't care to write scandal; but
when I see you, I will tell you how much the chits deserve to be whipped. Our favourite general
[Conway] is at his camp: Lady Ailesbury don't go to him these three weeks. I expect the pleasure
of seeing her and Miss Rich and Fred. Campbell here soon for a few days. I don't wonder your
lordship likes St. Philippe better than Torcy:[1] except a few passages interesting to Englishmen,
there cannot be a more dry narration than the latter. There is an addition of seven volumes
of Universal History to Voltaire's Works, which I think will charm you: I almost like it the
best of his works. It is what you have seen extended, and the Memoirs of Louis XIV. refondues
in it. He is a little tiresome with contradicting La Beaumelle and Voltaire, one remains with
scarce a fixed idea about that time. I wish they would produce their authorities and proofs;
without which, I am grown to believe neither. From mistakes in the English part, I suppose
there are great ones in the more distant histories; yet altogether it is a fine work. He is,
as one might believe, worst informed on the present times.--He says eight hundred persons were
put to death for the last Rebellion--I don't believe a quarter of the number were: and he makes
the first Lord Derwentwater--who, poor man! was in no such high-spirited mood--bring his son,
who by the way was not above a year and a half old, upon the scaffold to be sprinkled with
his blood.--However, he is in the right to expect to be believed: for he believes all the romances
in Lord Anson's Voyage, and how Admiral Almanzor made one man-of-war box the ears of the whole
empire of China!--I know nothing else new but a new edition of Dr. Young's Works. If your lordship
thinks like me, who hold that even in his most frantic rhapsodies there are innumerable fine
things, you will like to have this edition. Adieu, once more, my best lord!

[Footnote 1: Torcy had been Secretary of State in the time of Louis XIV., and was the diplomatist
who arranged the details of the First Partition Treaty with William III.]

HIS OWN "ROYAL AND NOBLE AUTHORS."

TO THE REV. HENRY ZOUCH.[1]

[Footnote 1: Mr. Zouch was the squire and vicar of Sandhill, in Yorkshire.]

STRAWBERRY HILL, August 3, 1758.

Sir,--I have received, with much pleasure and surprise, the favour of your remarks upon my
Catalogue; and whenever I have the opportunity of being better known to you, I shall endeavour
to express my gratitude for the trouble you have given yourself in contributing to perfect
a work, which, notwithstanding your obliging expressions, I fear you found very little worthy
the attention of so much good sense and knowledge, Sir, as you possess.

I am extremely thankful for all the information you have given me; I had already met with a
few of the same lights as I have received, Sir, from you, as I shall mention in their place.
The very curious accounts of Lord Fairfax were entirely new and most acceptable to me. If I
decline making use of one or two of your hints, I believe I can explain my reasons to your
satisfaction. I will, with your leave, go regularly through your letter.

As Caxton[1] laboured in the monastery of Westminster, it is not at all unlikely that he should
wear the habit, nor, considering how vague our knowledge of that age is, impossible but he
might enter the order.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Zouch had expressed a doubt whether a portrait of a man in a clerical garb
could possibly be meant for Caxton, and Mr. Cole and three of Walpole's literary correspondents
suggested that it was probably a portrait of Jehan de Jeonville, Provost of Paris.]

I have met with Henry's institution of a Christian, and shall give you an account of it in
my next edition. In that, too, I shall mention, that Lord Cobham's allegiance professed at
his death to Richard II., probably means to Richard and his right heirs whom he had abandoned
for the house of Lancaster. As the article is printed off, it is too late to say anything more
about his works.

In all the old books of genealogy you will find, Sir, that young Richard Duke of York was solemnly
married to a child of his own age, Anne Mowbray, the heiress of Norfolk, who died young as
well as he.

The article of the Duke of Somerset is printed off too; besides, I should imagine the letter
you mention not to be of his own composition, for, though not illiterate, he certainly could
not write anything like classic Latin. I may, too, possibly have inclusively mentioned the
very letter; I have not Ascham's book, to see from what copy the letter was taken, but probably
from one of those which I have said is in Bennet Library.

The Catalogue of Lord Brooke's works is taken from the volume of his works; such pieces of
his as I found doubted, particularly the tragedy of Cicero, I have taken notice of as doubtful.

In my next edition you will see, Sir, a note on Lord Herbert, who, besides being with the King
at York, had offended the peers by a speech in his Majesty's defence. Mr. Wolseley's preface
I shall mention, from your information. Lord Rochester's letters to his son are letters to
a child, bidding him mind his book and his grandmother. I had already been told, Sir, what
you tell me of Marchmont Needham.

Matthew Clifford I have altered to Martin, as you prescribed; the blunder was my own, as well
as a more considerable one, that of Lord Sandwich's death--which was occasioned by my supposing,
at first, that the translation of Barba was made by the second Earl, whose death I had marked
in the list, and forgot to alter, after I had writ the account of the father. I shall take
care to set this right, as the second volume is not yet begun to be printed.

Lord Halifax's Maxims I have already marked down, as I shall Lord Dorset's share in Pompey.

The account of the Duke of Wharton's death I had from a very good hand--Captain Willoughby;
who, in the convent where the Duke died, saw a picture of him in the habit. If it was a Bernardine
convent, the gentleman might confound them; but, considering that there is no life of the Duke
but bookseller's trash, it is much more likely that they mistook.

I have no doubts about Lord Belhaven's speeches; but unless I could verify their being published
by himself, it were contrary to my rule to insert them.

If you look, Sir, into Lord Clarendon's account of Montrose's death, you will perceive that
there is no probability of the book of his actions being composed by himself.

I will consult Sir James Ware's book on Lord Totness's translation; and I will mention the
Earl of Cork's Memoirs.

Lord Leppington is the Earl of Monmouth, in whose article I have taken notice of his Romulus
and Tarquin.

Lord Berkeley's book I have actually got, and shall give him an article.

There is one more passage, Sir, in your letter, which I cannot answer, without putting you
to new trouble--a liberty which all your indulgence cannot justify me in taking; else I would
beg to know on what authority you attribute to Laurence Earl of Rochester[1] the famous preface
to his father's history, which I have always heard ascribed to Atterbury, Smallridge, and Aldridge.[2]
The knowledge of this would be an additional favour; it would be a much greater, Sir, if coming
this way, you would ever let me have the honour of seeing a gentleman to whom I am so much obliged.

[Footnote 1: The Earl of Rochester was the second son of the Earl of Clarendon.

TO THE REV. HENRY ZOUCH.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 21, 1758.

Sir,--Every letter I receive from you is a new obligation, bringing me new information: but,
sure, my Catalogue was not worthy of giving you so much trouble. Lord Fortescue is quite new
to me; I have sent him to the press. Lord Dorset's[1] poem it will be unnecessary to mention
separately, as I have already said that his works are to be found among those of the minor poets.

[Footnote 1: Lord Dorset, Lord Chamberlain under Charles II., author of the celebrated ballad
"To all you ladies now on land," and patron of Dryden and other literary men, was honourably
mentioned as such by Macaulay in c. 8 of his "History," and also for his refusal, as Lord-Lieutenant
of Essex, to comply with some of James's illegal orders.]

I don't wonder, Sir, that you prefer Lord Clarendon to Polybius[1]; nor can two authors well
be more unlike: the former wrote a general history in a most obscure and almost unintelligible
style; the latter, a portion of private history, in the noblest style in the world. Whoever
made the comparison, I will do them the justice to believe that they understood bad Greek better
than their own language in its elevation. For Dr. Jortin's[2] Erasmus, which I have very nearly
finished, it has given me a good opinion of the author, and he has given me a very bad one
of his subject. By the Doctor's labour and impartiality, Erasmus appears a begging parasite,
who had parts enough to discover truth, and not courage enough to profess it: whose vanity
made him always writing; yet his writings ought to have cured his vanity, as they were the
most abject things in the world. Good Erasmus's honest mean was alternate time-serving. I never
had thought much about him, and now heartily despise him.

[Footnote 1: "You prefer Lord Clarendon to Polybius." It is hard to understand this sentence.
Lord Clarendon did not write a general history, but an account of a single event, "The Great
Rebellion." It was Polybius who wrote a "Universal History," of which, however, only five books
have been preserved, the most interesting portion of which is a narrative of Hannibal's invasion
of Italy and march over the Alps in the Second Punic War.]

[Footnote 2: Dr. Jortin was Archdeacon of London; and, among other works, had recently published
a life of the celebrated Erasmus, the mention of whom by Pope, which Walpole presently quotes,
is not very unfairly interpreted by Walpole.]

When I speak my opinion to you, Sir, about what I dare say you care as little for as I do,
(for what is the merit of a mere man of letters?) it is but fit I should answer you as sincerely
on a question about which you are so good as to interest yourself. That my father's life is
likely to be written, I have no grounds for believing. I mean I know nobody that thinks of
it. For, myself, I certainly shall not, for many reasons, which you must have the patience
to hear. A reason to me myself is, that I think too highly of him, and too meanly of myself,
to presume I am equal to the task. They who do not agree with me in the former part of my position,
will undoubtedly allow the latter part. In the next place, the very truths that I should relate
would be so much imputed to partiality, that he would lose of his due praise by the suspicion
of my prejudice. In the next place, I was born too late in his life to be acquainted with him
in the active part of it. Then I was at school, at the university, abroad, and returned not
till the last moments of his administration. What I know of him I could only learn from his
own mouth in the last three years of his life; when, to my shame, I was so idle, and young,
and thoughtless, that I by no means profited of his leisure as I might have done; and, indeed,
I have too much impartiality in my nature to care, if I could, to give the world a history,
collected solely from the person himself of whom I should write. With the utmost veneration
for his truth, I can easily conceive, that a man who had lived a life of party, and who had
undergone such persecution from party, should have had greater bias than he himself could be
sensible of. The last, and that a reason which must be admitted, if all the others are not--his
papers are lost. Between the confusion of his affairs, and the indifference of my elder brother
to things of that sort, they were either lost, burnt, or what we rather think, were stolen
by a favourite servant of my brother, who proved a great rogue, and was dismissed in my brother's
life; and the papers were not discovered to be missing till after my brother's death. Thus,
Sir, I should want vouchers for many things I could say of much importance. I have another
personal reason that discourages me from attempting this task, or any other, besides the great
reluctance that I have to being a voluminous author. Though I am by no means the learned man
you are so good as to call me in compliment; though, on the contrary, nothing can be more superficial
than my knowledge, or more trifling than my reading,--yet, I have so much strained my eyes,
that it is often painful to me to read even a newspaper by daylight. In short, Sir, having
led a very dissipated life, in all the hurry of the world of pleasure, I scarce ever read but
by candlelight, after I have come home late at nights. As my eyes have never had the least
inflammation or humour, I am assured I may still recover them by care and repose. I own I prefer
my eyes to anything I could ever read, much more to anything I could write. However, after
all I have said, perhaps I may now and then, by degrees, throw together some short anecdotes
of my father's private life and particular story, and leave his public history to more proper
and more able hands, if such will undertake it. Before I finish on this chapter, I can assure
you he did forgive my Lord Bolingbroke[1]--his nature was forgiving: after all was over, and
he had nothing to fear or disguise, I can say with truth, that there were not three men of
whom he ever dropped a word with rancour. What I meant of the clergy not forgiving Lord Bolingbroke,
alluded not to his doctrines, but to the direct attack and war he made on the whole body. And
now, Sir, I will confess my own weakness to you. I do not think so highly of that writer, as
I seem to do in my book; but I thought it would be imputed to prejudice in me, if I appeared
to undervalue an author of whom so many persons of sense still think highly. My being Sir Robert
Walpole's son warped me to praise, instead of censuring Lord Bolingbroke. With regard to the
Duke of Leeds,[2] I think you have misconstrued the decency of my expression. I said, Burnet[3]
had treated him severely; that is, I chose that Burnet should say so, rather than myself. I
have never praised where my heart condemned. Little attentions, perhaps, to worthy descendants,
were excusable in a work of so extensive a nature, and that approached so near to these times.
I may, perhaps, have an opportunity, at one day or other of showing you some passages suppressed
on these motives, which yet I do not intend to destroy.

[Footnote 1: Sir R. Walpole was so far from having any personal quarrel with Bolingbroke, that
he took off so much of his outlawry as banished him, though he would not allow him to take
his seat in the House of Peers.]

[Footnote 2: This celebrated statesman was originally Sir Thomas Osborne. On the dissolution
of the Cabal Ministry he was raised to the peerage as Earl of Danby, and was appointed Lord
Treasurer. An attempt to impeach him, which was prompted by Louis XIV., was baffled by Charles.
Under William III. he was appointed President of the Council, being the recognised leader of
the Tory section of the Ministry; and in the course of the reign he was twice promoted--first
to be Marquis of Carmarthen, and subsequently to be Duke of Leeds.]

[Footnote 3: Burnet, the Bishop of Salisbury, to whose "Memoirs of His Own Time" all subsequent
historians are greatly indebted. He accompanied William to England as his chaplain.]

Crew,[1] Bishop of Durham, was as abject a tool as possible. I would be very certain he is
an author before I should think him worth mentioning. If ever you should touch on Lord Willoughby's
sermon, I should be obliged for a hint of it. I actually have a printed copy of verses by his
son, on the marriage of the Princess Royal; but they are so ridiculously unlike measure, and
the man was so mad and so poor, that I determined not to mention him.

[Footnote 1: Crew was Bishop of Durham. He is branded by Macaulay (c. 6) as "mean, vain, and
cowardly." He accepted a seat on James's Ecclesiastical Commission, and when "some of his friends
represented to him the risk which he ran by sitting on an illegal tribunal, he was not ashamed
to answer that he could not live out of the royal smile."]

If these details, Sir, which I should have thought interesting to no mortal but myself, should
happen to amuse you, I shall be glad; if they do not, you will learn not to question a man
who thinks it his duty to satisfy the curiosity of men of sense and honour, and who, being
of too little consequence to have secrets, is not ambitious of the less consequence of appearing
to have any.

P.S.--I must ask you one question, but to be answered entirely at your leisure. I have a play
in rhyme called "Saul," said to be written by a peer. I guess Lord Orrery. If ever you happen
to find out, be so good to tell me.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 24, 1758.

It is a very melancholy present I send you here, my dear Sir; yet, considering the misfortune
that has befallen us, perhaps the most agreeable I could send you. You will not think it the
bitterest tear you have shed when you drop one over this plan of an urn inscribed with the
name of your dear brother, and with the testimonial of my eternal affection to him! This little
monument is at last placed over the pew of your family at Linton [in Kent], and I doubt whether
any tomb was ever erected that spoke so much truth of the departed, and flowed from so much
sincere friendship in the living. The thought was my own, adopted from the antique columbaria,
and applied to Gothic. The execution of the design was Mr. Bentley's, who alone, of all mankind,
could unite the grace of Grecian architecture and the irregular lightness and solemnity of
Gothic. Kent and many of our builders sought this, but have never found it. Mr. Chute, who
has as much taste as Mr. Bentley, thinks this little sketch a perfect model. The soffite is
more beautiful than anything of either style separate. There is a little error in the inscription;
it should be Horatius Walpole posuit. The urn is of marble, richly polished; the rest of stone.
On the whole, I think there is simplicity and decency, with a degree of ornament that destroys
neither.

What do you say in Italy on the assassination of the King of Portugal?[1] Do you believe that
Portuguese subjects lift their hand against a monarch for gallantry? Do you believe that when
a slave murders an absolute prince, he goes a walking with his wife the next morning and murders
her too? Do you believe the dead King is alive? and that the Jesuits are as wrongfully suspected
of this assassination as they have been of many others they have committed? If you do believe
this, and all this, you are not very near turning Protestants. It is scarce talked of here,
and to save trouble, we admit just what the Portuguese Minister is ordered to publish. The
King of Portugal murdered, throws us two hundred years back--the King of Prussia not murdered,
carries us two hundred years forward again.

[Footnote 1: The Duke of Aveiro was offended with the King of Portugal for interfering to prevent
his son's marriage, and, in revenge, he plotted his assassination. He procured the co-operation
of some other nobles, especially the Marquis and Marchioness of Tavora, and also of some of
the chief Jesuits in the country, who promised absolution to any assassin. The attempt was
made on September 3rd, when the King was fired at and severely wounded. The conspirators were
all convicted and executed, and the Jesuits were expelled from the country.]

Another King, I know, has had a little blow: the Prince de Soubise has beat some Isenbourgs
and Obergs, and is going to be Elector of Hanover this winter. There has been a great sickness
among our troops in the other German army; the Duke of Marlborough has been in great danger,
and some officers are dead. Lord Frederick Cavendish is returned from France. He confirms and
adds to the amiable accounts we had received of the Duc d'Aiguillon's[1] behaviour to our prisoners.
You yourself, the pattern of attentions and tenderness, could not refine on what he has done
both in good-nature and good-breeding: he even forbad any ringing of bells or rejoicings wherever
they passed--but how your representative blood will curdle when you hear of the absurdity of
one of your countrymen: the night after the massacre at St. Cas, the Duc d'Aiguillon gave a
magnificent supper of eighty covers to our prisoners--a Colonel Lambert got up at the bottom
of the table, and asking for a bumper, called out to the Duc, "My Lord Duke, here's the Roy
de Franse!" You must put all the English you can crowd into the accent. My Lord Duke was so
confounded at this preposterous compliment, which it was impossible for him to return, that
he absolutely sank back into his chair and could not utter a syllable: our own people did not
seem to feel more.

[Footnote 1: The Duc d'Aiguillon was governor of Brittany when the disastrous attempt of the
Duke of Marlborough on St. Cast was repulsed. But he did not get much credit for the defeat.
Lacretelle mentions that: "Les Bretons qui le considérent comme leur tyran prétendent qu'il
l'était tenu caché pendant le combat" (iii. 345). He was subsequently prosecuted on charges
of peculation and subornation, which the Parliament declared to be fully established, but Mme.
de Barri persuaded Louis to cancel their resolution.]

You will read and hear that we have another expedition sailing, somewhither in the West Indies.
Hobson, the commander, has in his whole life had but one stroke of a palsy, so possibly may
retain half of his understanding at least. There is a great tranquillity at home, but I should
think not promising duration. The disgust in the army on the late frantic measures will furnish
some warmth probably to Parliament--and if the French should think of returning our visits,
should you wonder? There are even rumours of some stirring among your little neighbours at
Albano--keep your eye on them--if you could discover anything in time, it would do you great
credit. Apropos to them, I will send you an epigram that I made the other day on Mr. Chute's
asking why Taylor the oculist called himself Chevalier?[1]

[Footnote 1: Walpole was proud of the epigram, for the week before he had sent it to Lady Hervey.
It was--

    Why Taylor the quack calls himself Chevalier
     'Tis not easy a reason to render,
    Unless blinding eyes that he thinks to make clear
      Demonstrates he's but a Pretender.

Le Chevalier was the name commonly given in courtesy by both parties to Prince Charles Edward
in 1745. Colonel Talbot says: "'Well, I never thought to have been so much indebted to the
Pretend--' 'To the Prince,' said Waverley, smiling. 'To the Chevalier,' said the Colonel; 'it
is a good travelling name which we may both freely use'"

TO THE REV. HENRY ZOUCH.

ARLINGTON STREET, Dec. 9, 1758.

Sir,--I have desired Mr. Whiston to convey to you the second edition of my Catalogue, not so
complete as it might have been, if great part had not been printed before I received your remarks,
but yet more correct than the first sketch with which I troubled you. Indeed, a thing of this
slight and idle nature does not deserve to have much more pains employed upon it.

I am just undertaking an edition of Lucan, my friend Mr. Bentley having in his possession his
father's notes and emendations on the first seven books. Perhaps a partiality for the original
author concurs a little with this circumstance of the notes, to make me fond of printing, at
Strawberry Hill, the works of a man who, alone of all the classics, was thought to breathe
too brave and honest a spirit for the perusal of the Dauphin and the French. I don't think
that a good or bad taste in poetry is of so serious a nature, that I should be afraid of owning
too, that, with that great judge Corneille, and with that, perhaps, no judge Heinsius, I prefer
Lucan to Virgil. To speak fairly, I prefer great sense, to poetry with little sense. There
are hemistichs in Lucan that go to one's soul and one's heart;--for a mere epic poem, a fabulous
tissue of uninteresting battles that don't teach one even to fight, I know nothing more tedious.
The poetic images, the versification and language of the Aeneid are delightful; but take the
story by itself, and can anything be more silly and unaffecting? There are a few gods without
power, heroes without character, heaven-directed wars without justice, inventions without probability,
and a hero who betrays one woman with a kingdom that he might have had, to force himself upon
another woman and another kingdom to which he had no pretensions, and all this to show his
obedience to the gods! In short, I have always admired his numbers so much, and his meaning
so little, that I think I should like Virgil better if I understood him less.

Have you seen, Sir, a book which has made some noise--"Helvetius de l'Esprit"[1]? The author
is so good and moral a man, that I grieve he should have published a system of as relaxed morality
as can well be imagined: 'tis a large quarto, and in general a very superficial one. His philosophy
may be new in France, but it greatly exhausted here. He tries to imitate Montesquieu,[2] and
has heaped common-places upon common-places, which supply or overwhelm his reasoning; yet he
has often wit, happy allusions, and sometimes writes finely: there is merit enough to give
an obscure man fame; flimsiness enough to depreciate a great man. After his book was licensed,
they forced him to retract it by a most abject recantation. Then why print this work? If zeal
for his system pushed him to propagate it, did not he consider that a recantation would hurt
his cause more than his arguments could support it?

[Footnote 1: Helvetius was the son of the French king's physician. His book was condemned by
the Parliament of Paris as derogatory to the nature of man.]

[Footnote 2: Montesquieu was President of the Parliament of Bordeaux. He was a voluminous writer,
his most celebrated work being his "L'Esprit des Lois." Burke described him as "A genius not
born in every country, or every time: with a Herculean robustness of mind; and nerves not to
be broken by labour."]

We are promised Lord Clarendon in February from Oxford, but I hear shall have the surreptitious
edition from Holland much sooner.

You see, Sir, I am a sceptic as well as Helvetius, but of a more moderate complexion. There
is no harm in telling mankind that there is not so much divinity in the Aeneid as they imagine;
but, even if I thought so, I would not preach that virtue and friendship are mere names, and
resolvable into self-interest; because there are numbers that would remember the grounds of
the principle, and forget what was to be engrafted on it. Adieu!

STATE OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 19, 1759.

I hope the treaty of Sluys[1] advances rapidly. Considering that your own court is as new to
you as Monsieur de Bareil and his, you cannot be very well entertained: the joys of a Dutch
fishing town and the incidents of a cartel will not compose a very agreeable history. In the
mean time you do not lose much; though the Parliament is met, no politics are come to town;
one may describe the House of Commons like the price of stocks--Debates, nothing done. Votes,
under par. Patriots, no price. Oratory, books shut. Love and war are as much at a stand; neither
the Duchess of Hamilton, nor the expeditions are gone off yet. Prince Edward has asked to go
to Quebec, and has been refused. If I was sure they would refuse me, I would ask to go thither
too. I should not dislike about as much laurel as I could stick in my window at Christmas.

[Footnote 1: Treaty of Sluys. Conway was engaged at Sluys negotiating with the French envoy,
M. de Bareil, for an exchange of prisoners.]

We are next week to have a serenata at the Opera-house for the King of Prussia's birthday;
it is to begin, "Viva Georgio, e Frederigo viva!" It will, I own, divert me to see my Lord
Temple whispering for this alliance, on the same bench on which I have so often seen him whisper
against all Germany. The new opera pleases universally, and I hope will yet hold up its head.
Since Vanneschi is cunning enough to make us sing the roast beef of old Germany, I am persuaded
it will revive; politics are the only hot-bed for keeping such a tender plant as Italian music
alive in England.

You are so thoughtless about your dress, that I cannot help giving you a little warning against
your return. Remember, everybody that comes from abroad is censé to come from France, and whatever
they wear at their first reappearance immediately grows the fashion. Now if, as is very likely,
you should through inadvertence change hats with a master of a Dutch smack, Offley will be
upon the watch, will conclude you took your pattern from M. de Bareil, and in a week's time
we shall all be equipped like Dutch skippers. You see I speak very disinterestedly; for, as
I never wear a hat myself, it is indifferent to me what sort of hat I don't wear. Adieu! I
hope nothing in this letter, if it is opened, will affect the conferences, nor hasten our rupture
with Holland. Lest it should, I send it to Lord Holdernesse's office; concluding, like Lady
Betty Waldegrave, that the Government never suspect what they send under their own covers.

TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Feb. 25, 1759.

