Captain ROYDEN had made a remark of a similar purport to his body servant, though he had kept
more closely to prose. Now here they were locked in, with a glass of sherry wine and a sponge
cake, waiting for the signal that might never come. Ordinary course on opening night of Session
is, for SPEAKER to take Chair; Notices of Motion to be worked off; Queen's Speech read; then
Mover and Seconder of Address march into seats immediately behind Ministers, especially kept
for them; dexterously dodge tendency of sword to get between their knees; sit down with the
consciousness that they are the cynosure of every eye, including those of JOSEPH GILLIS, regarding
them across House through horn-bound spectacles. To-day everything upside down. Instead of
moving the Address, HARCOURT on with question of Privilege--HARCOURT, a plain man, in civilian
costume! Worst of it was, they could not go away and change their clothes. No one knows what
may happen from hour to hour in House of Commons; debate on Privilege might break down; Address
brought on, and what would happen to British Constitution if Mover and Seconder were dragged
in in their dressing-gowns?

"Dem'd dull," said Captain of Yeomanry Cavalry Lord BROOKE, toying with his sword-tassel.

"Trenormous!" yawned Bosun's Mate ROYDEN, loosening his belt, for he had been beguiled into
taking another sponge-cake. "If they'd only let us walk about the corridors, or lounge in the
House, it would be better. But to sit cooped up here is terrible. Worst of it is I've conned
my speech over so often, got it mixed up; end turning up in middle; exordium marching in with
rear-guard; was just right to go off at half-past six; now it's eight, and we won't be off
duty till twelve."

Vice-Admiral ROYDEN feebly hitched up his trousers; sadly sipped his sherry wine, and deep
silence fell on the forlorn company.

No one in crowded House thought of these miserable men. HARCOURT made his speech; GORST demonstrated
that Motion was indefensible, being both too late and too soon; the Mouse came and went amid
a spasm of thrilled interest; GLADSTONE delivered oration in dinner-hour; PARNELL fired up
at midnight; House divided, and SPEAKER left the Chair. Then was heard the rattling of keys
in the door by OLD MORALITY's room; two limp warriors were led forth; conducted to four-wheel
cab; delivered at their own doorways, to spend night in pleased reflection on the distinction
of Moving and Seconding the Address.

Business done.--Charge of Breach of Privilege against Times, negatived by 260 Votes against 212.

Wednesday.--House met at Noon as usual on Wednesdays; the two men of war in their places in
full uniform, which looked a little creased as if they had slept in it. The eye that has sternly
reviewed the Warwickshire Yeomanry Cavalry, lacks something of its wonted brightness; whilst
ROYDEN's black velvet suit sets off the added pallor of a countenance that tells of sleepless
vigil.

House nearly empty; Members won't turn up at Noon even to hear the thrilling eloquence clothing
the original thoughts of the Mover and Seconder of the Address. Amid the dreary space the stalwart
figure of GEORGE HAWKESWORTH BOND, Member for the East Division of Dorset, stands forth like
a monument. Curious to see how BOND avoids vicinity of Cross Benches. Was standing there in
contemplative attitude last night, whilst GORST was demonstrating that HARCOURT's Motion on
Breach of Privilege was, (1) too late, and (2) that it was too soon. It was at this moment
that the Mouse appeared on the scene, leisurely strolling down floor apparently going to join
the majority. A view-halloa started him; doubled and made for Cross Benches; BOND, awakened
out of reverie by the shout, looked down and saw the strange apparition. Never believed a man
of his weight could get so high up into the air by sudden swift gyration. Mouse, more frightened
even than the man, dodged round the Benches and disappeared. "All very well once in a way,"
said BOND this afternoon, sinking into a seat far removed from the Cross Benches; "but it is
foolish unnecessarily to court danger; won't catch me standing at the bar any more when GORST
is orating."

And his word is as good as his Bond.

After Mover and Seconder had completed their story, Grand Old Man appeared at the table, and
talked for nearly an hour. Few to listen, but that no matter. A rapt auditor in OLD MORALITY,
sitting forward with hands on knees, eyes reverently fixed on orator, drinking in his honeyed
words. Something paternal in his attitude towards Ministers. Here and there they had done not
quite the right thing. The MARKISS, in particular, had been particularly harsh to Portugal;
but, on the whole, things might have been worse.

"Bless you, my children; bless you!" were the last words of the Grand Old Man as he stretched
forth his hands across the table. Not a dry eye on the Treasury Bench. OLD MORALITY deeply
touched, but through his sobs managed to make acknowledgment of the unexpected clemency. Business
done.--Address Moved.

Thursday.--The languor in which House steeped since Debate on Address opened, not varied to-night
till, at ten o'clock, copies of Report of Parnell Commission brought to Vote Office. Then such
a scrimmage as never before seen.

At re-opening of Debate, HOWORTH started off with reference to Portugal. Immediately Members,
with one consent, went forth, discovering that they had special business in the Lobby, the
Library, the Tea-room, anywhere out of the House. The SAGE OF QUEEN ANNE's GATE had not even
waited for resumption of Debate to quit the scene; was comfortably ensconsed in Smoking-room,
distilling words of wisdom to listening circle. Someone dropping in, accidentally mentioned
that HOWORTH had brought on Portugal business. SAGE jumped up nearly as high as BOND when he
saw the Mouse. Had an Amendment on the paper referring to Portugal; had prepared a few paragraphs
elucidating it. If opportunity missed, speech would be lost. So bolted off; arrived just in
time to follow HOWORTH. Whilst discoursing, Our Latest Duke came in, fresh from the pageant
of his installation in House of Lords. Seated in Peers' Gallery, toying with his walking-stick,
thinking no evil, started to hear his name mentioned. SAGE's quick eye had caught sight of him.

"Halloa!" said the SAGE to himself, "here's a Duke; let's throw arf a brick at him!"

So, with innocent manner and pretty assumption of ignorance of the presence in Peers' Gallery
of the highly favoured young gentleman with the walking-stick, the SAGE traced all the evils
of Central Africa, leading directly up to the quarrel with Portugal, to the action of the British
South Africa Company, of which the Duke of FIFE, he said, was a Promoter and Director.

"Very odd thing that, TOBY," said the Duke, under his breath, as he left the Gallery on tip-toe;
"most remarkable coincidence; odds seemed to be a thousand to one against it; and yet it came
off. Don't look into Peers' Gallery twice a year; yet on very night I happened to be there
for five minutes, LABBY on his legs and talking about ME!"

Business done.--Debate on Address.

Friday.--A dull night, uplifted, at outset, by powerful speech from PARNELL, and, towards finish,
by Colonel SAUNDERSON riding in, and slashing off heads all round. After him came SHEEHY. Splendid
fellow, SHEEHY; must see more of him.

"What you want is blood!" SHEEHY shouted across the House at BALFOUR, lounging, dull and depressed,
on Treasury Bench; "I repeat the phrase--Blood!"

"Blood," said SAUNDERSON, carelessly passing his hand through the black locks that crown his
lofty brow, "is not exactly a phrase. Besides, after eight hours of this, a cup of black coffee
would be more in BALFOUR'S way. But a good deal must be conceded to SHEEHY. What a nation we
are for genders! We had an O'SHEA, we have an O'HEA; and here's a SHEE-HE. I have occasional
differences with some of my countrymen; but I am proud of my country."

Business done.--Debate on Address.

       *       *       *       *       *

Country Editor's Wife. "OH, JOHN DEAR! SOMEBODY'S SENT US SUCH A SPLENDID SALMON!"

Editor (after a moment's thought). "AH, YES--I KNOW--AND CHEAP TOO! ON'Y HALF A COLUMN!"

       *       *       *       *       *

FIFTY YEARS OF RAILWAY PROGRESS--FIFTY YEARS HENCE.

A large and attentive audience assembled yesterday evening to hear Mr. FAIRWEATHER'S discourse
on the highly interesting and instructive subject of the progress made in the matter of Railway
Travelling in the course of the last fifty years.

The lecturer commenced by reminding his audience that, in the days of their fathers and grandfathers,
fifty years ago, towards the close of the Nineteenth Century, the wretched Public had to content
themselves with a miserable conveyance called a Pullman Car, that they in those days considered
a triumph of elegant and convenient locomotion, because they could get tucked away on a shelf
at night as a sort of apology for a bed, and be served with a mutton-chop by day, as a makeshift
for lunch, and this they considered wonderful, because they were being dragged over their road
at the marvellous, soul-thrilling pace of sixty miles an hour. (Loud laughter.) What would
the poor benighted travellers of those days say to their present Grand Circular Express, that
ran from London to York in two-and-twenty minutes, and ran up to the most northern point in
Scotland, then down the Western Coast to Land's End, and back again to London all along the
Channel Shore, doing the entire circuit in four hours and a quarter, and this while you reclined
on the rich red velvet cushions of the lofty and sumptuously decorated third-class carriage
at a one-and-ninepenny fare? No wonder that people took monthly tickets, and went round, and
round, and round the two kingdoms; living, in fact, in the train, and being thus perpetually
on the move. Look at the advantages offered by the Company, on their new extra-triple width
line. A Brass Band, a Theatrical Company, a Doctor, Dancing-Master, Teacher of Elocution, Solicitor,
Dentist, and Police Magistrate, accompanied every train, which was, moreover, provided with
Turkish Shower and Swimming Baths, Billiard-rooms, Circulating Library, and offered attractive
advantages to families wishing, either at their doctor's orders or for the mere sake of the
run on its own account, continual change of air, complete sets of handsomely furnished apartments
not fitted up with sleeping shelves--(laughter)--but supplied with regular six foot four-posters,
such as would have delighted the eyes of their great grandfathers a hundred years ago. The
law, too, recently passed, which consigned a Director to penal servitude, in the event of a
train being ten minutes after its time, which had been passed owing to the persistent unpunctuality
of the South-Eastern Company, had worked admirably, and to it, no doubt, they owed the present
orderly management of all the lines in the three kingdoms. What would be the next development
of Railway travelling he could not venture to predict, but he thought that if, in the next
fifty years, they made as much progress as they had in the fifty years just expired, he was
of opinion, that though the shareholders might possibly receive a smaller dividend even than
that they were drawing to-day--(loud laughter)--the Railway, as an institution in the country,
could not be regarded but as being in a highly flourishing condition.

A vote of thanks having been passed to the Lecturer for his lively and instructive discourse,
which he briefly acknowledged, the proceedings terminated.

