SCENE--A Suburban Hall. The Performance has not yet begun. The Audience is limited, and low-spirited,
and may perhaps number--including the Attendants--eighteen. The only people in the front seats
are, a man in full evening dress, which he tries to conceal under a caped cloak, and two Ladies
in plush opera-cloaks. Fog is hanging about in the rafters, and the gas-stars sing a melancholy
dirge. Each casual cough arouses dismal echoes. Enter an intending Spectator, who is conducted
to a seat in the middle of an empty row. After removing his hat and coat, he suddenly thinks
better--or worse--of it, puts them on again, and vanishes hurriedly.

First Sardonic Attendant (at doorway). Reg'lar turnin' em away to-night, we are!

Second Sardonic Attendant. He come up to me afore he goes to the pay-box, and sez he--"Is there
a seat left?" he sez. And I sez to 'im, "Well, I think we can manage to squeeze you in somewhere."
Like that, I sez.

    [The Orchestra, consisting of two thin-armed little girls,
    with pigtails, enter, and perform a stumbling Overture upon a
    cracked piano. Herr Von KAMBERWOHL, the Conjuror, appears on
    platform, amidst loud clapping from two obvious Confederates
    in a back row.

Herr V. K. (in a mixed accent). Lyties and Shentilmans, pefoor I co-mence viz my hillusions
zis hevenin', I 'ave, most hemphadically to repoodiate hall hassistance from hany spirrids
or soopernatural beins vatsohever. All I shall 'ave ze honour of showing you will be perform
by simple Sloight of 'and, or Ledger-dee-Mang! (He invites any member of the Audience to step
up and assist him, but the spectators remain coy.) I see zat I 'ave not to-night so larsh an
orjence to select from as usual, still I 'ope----(Here one of the obvious Confederates slouches
up, and joins him on the platform. ) Ah, zat is goot! I am vair moch oblige to you, Sare. (The
Confederate grins sheepishly.) Led me see--I seem to remember your face some'ow. (Broader grin
from Confederate.) Hah, you vos 'ere last night?--zat exblains it! But you 'ave nevaire assist
me befoor, eh? (Reckless shake of the head from Confederate.) I thought nod. Vair veil. You
'ave nevaire done any dricks mit carts--no? Bot you vill dry? You nevaire dell vat you gan
do till you dry, as ze ole sow said ven she learn ze halphabet. (He pauses for a laugh--which
doesn't come.) Now, Sare, you know a cart ven you see 'im? Ah, zat is somtings alretty! Now
I vill ask you to choose any cart or carts out of zis back. (The Confederate fumbles.) I don't
vish to 'urry you--but I vant you to mike 'aste--&c, &c.

The Man in Evening Dress. I remember giving BIMBO, the Wizard of the West, a guinea once to
teach me that trick--there was nothing in it.

First Lady in Plush Cloak. And can you do it?

The M. in E.D. (guardedly). Well, I don't know that I could exactly do it now--but I know how
it's done.

[He explains elaborately how it is done.

Herr Von K. (stamping, as a signal that the Orchestra may leave off). Next I shall show you
my zelebrated hillusion of ze inexhaustible 'At, to gonclude viz ze Invisible 'En. And I shall
be moch oblige if any shentelmans vill kindly favour me viz 'is 'at for ze burpose of my exberiment.

The M. in E.D. Here's mine--it's quite at your service. [To his companions. ] This is a stale
old trick, he merely--(explains as before. ) But you wait and see how I 'll score off him over it!

Herr V.K. (to the M. in E.D). You are gvide sure, Sare, you leaf nossing insoide of your 'at?

The M. in E.D. (with a wink to his neighbours). On the contrary, there are several little things
there belonging to me, which I'll thank you to give me back by-and-by.

Herr V.K. (diving into the hat). So? Vat 'ave we 'ere? A bonch of flowairs! Anozzer bonch of
flowairs? Anozzer--and anozzer! Ha, do you alvays garry flowairs insoide your 'at, Sare?

The M. in E.D. Invariably--to keep my head cool; so hand them over, please; I want them.

[His Companions titter, and declare "it really is too bad of him!"

Herr V.K.. Bresently, Sare,--zere is somtings ailse, it feels loike--yes, it ees--a mahouse-drap.
Your haid is drouble vid moice, Sare, yes? Bot zere is none 'ere in ze 'at!

The M. in E.D. (with rather feeble indignation.) I never said there were.

Herr V.K. No, zere is no mahouse--bot--[diving again]--ha! a leedle vide rad! Anozzer vide
rad! And again a vide rad--and one, two, dree more vide rads! You vind zey keep your haid noice
and cool, Sare? May I drouble you to com and dake zem avay? I don't loike ze vide rads myself,
it is madder of daste. [The Audience snigger. ] Oh, but vait--zis is a most gonvenient 'at--[extracting
a large feeding-bottle and a complete set of baby-linen]--ze shentelman is vairy domestic,
I see. And zere is more yet, he is goot businessman, he knows how von must hadvertise in zese
'ere toimes. 'E 'as 'elp me, so I vill 'elp 'im by distributing some of his cairculars for 'im.

[He showers cards, commending somebody's self-adjusting trousers amongst the Audience, each
person receiving about two dozen--chiefly in the eye--until the air is dark, and the floor
thick with them.

The M. in E.D. (much annoyed). Infernal liberty! Confounded impudence! Shouldn't have had my
hat if I 'd known he was going to play the fool with it like this!

First Lady in Plush Cloak. But I thought you knew what was coming?

The M. in E.D. So I did--but this fellow does it differently.

[Herr VON K. is preparing to fire a marked half-crown from a blunderbuss into a crystal casket.

A Lady with Nerves (to her husband). JOHN, I'm sure he's going to let that thing off!

John (a Brute). Well, I shouldn't be surprised if he is. I can't help it.

The L. with N. You could if you liked--you could tell him my nerves won't stand it--the trick
will be every bit as good if he only pretends to fire, I'm sure.

John. Oh, nonsense!--you can stand it very well if you like.

The L. w. N. I can't, John.... There, he's raising it to his shoulder. JOHN, I must go out.
I shall scream if I sit here, I know I shall!

John. No, no--what's the use? He'll have fired long before you get to the door. Much better
stay where you are, and do your screaming sitting down. (The Conjuror fires.) There, you see,
you didn't scream, after all!

The L. w. N. I screamed to myself--which is ever so much worse for me; but you never will understand
me till it's too late!

[Herr VON K. performs another trick.

First Lady in Plush Cloak. That was very clever, wasn't it? I can't imagine how it was done!

The M. in E.D. (in whom the memory of his desecrated hat is still rankling). Oh, can't you?
Simplest thing in the world--any child could do it!

Second Lady. What, find the rabbit inside those boxes, when they were all corded up, and sealed!

The M. in E.D. You don't mean to say you were taken in by that? Why, it was another rabbit,
of course!

First Lady. But even if it was another rabbit, it was wearing the borrowed watch round its neck.

The M. in E. D. Easy enough to slip the watch in, if all the boxes have false bottoms.

Second L. Yes, but he passed the boxes round for us to examine.

The M. in E. D. Boxes--but not those boxes.

First L. But how could he slip the watch in when somebody was holding it all the time in a
paper bag?

The M. in E. D. Ah, I saw how it was done--but it would take too long to explain it now. I
have seen it so well performed that you couldn't spot it. But this chap's a regular duffer!

