At Biggar, in Lanarkshire, as well as in several other places in Scotland, a very singular
ancient practice is at times, though but rarely, revived. It is called riding the stang. When
any husband is known to treat his wife extremely ill by beating her, and when the offence is
long and unreasonably continued, while the wife's character is unexceptionable, the indignation
of the neighbourhood, becoming gradually vehement, at last breaks out into action in the following
manner:--All the women enter into conspiracy to execute vengeance upon the culprit. Having
fixed upon the time when their design is to be put into effect, they suddenly assemble in a
great crowd, and seize the offending party. They take care, at the same time, to provide a
stout beam of wood, upon which they set him astride, and, hoisting him aloft, tie his legs
beneath. He is thus carried in derision round the village, attended by the hootings, scoffs,
and hisses of his numerous attendants, who pull down his legs, so as to render his seat in
other respects abundantly uneasy. The grown-up men, in the meanwhile, remain at a distance,
and avoid interfering in the ceremony. And it is well if the culprit, at the conclusion of
the business, has not a ducking added to the rest of the punishment. Of the origin of this
custom we know nothing. It is well known, however, over the country; and within these six years,
it was with great ceremony performed upon a weaver in the Canongate of Edinburgh.

This custom can scarcely fail to recall to the recollection of the intelligent reader, the
analogous practice among the Negroes of Africa, mentioned by Mungo Park, under the denomination
of the mysteries of Mumbo Jumbo. The two customs, however, mark, in a striking manner, the
different situations of the female sex in the northern and middle regions of the globe. From
Tacitus and the earliest historians we learn, that the most ancient inhabitants of Europe,
however barbarous their condition in other respects might be, lived on terms of equal society
with their women, and avoided the practice of polygamy; but in Africa, where the laws of domestic
society are different, the husbands, as the masters of a number of enslaved women, find it
necessary to have recourse to frauds and disgraceful severities to maintain their authority;
whereas in Europe we find, among the common people, a sanction for the women to protect each
other, by severities, against the casual injustice committed by the ruling sex.

CHARLES STUART.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHRISTMAS SCRAPS.

We have spiced our former volumes, as well as our present number, with two or three articles
suitable to this jocund season; but we cannot deny ourselves the pleasure of adding "more last
words." People talk of Old and New Christmas with woeful faces; and a few, more learned than
their friends, cry stat nominis umbra,--all which may be very true, for aught we know or care.
Swift proved that mortal MAN is a broomstick; and Dr. Johnson wrote a sublime meditation on
a pudding; and we could write a whole number about the midnight mass and festivities of Christmas,
pull out old Herrick and his Ceremonies for Christmasse--his yule log--and Strutt's Auntient
Customs in Games used by Boys and Girls, merrily sett out in verse; but we leave such relics
for the present, and seek consolation in the thousand wagon-loads of poultry and game, and
the many million turkeys that make all the coach--offices of the metropolis like so many charnel-houses.
We would rather illustrate our joy like the Hindoos do their geography, with rivers and seas
of liquid amber, clarified butter, milk, curds, and intoxicating liquors. No arch in antiquity,
not even that of Constantine, delights us like the arch of a baron of beef, with its soft-flowing
sea of gravy, whose silence is only broken by the silver oar announcing that another guest
is made happy. Then the pudding, with all its Johnsonian associations of "the golden grain
drinking the dews of the morning--milk pressed by the gentle hand of the beauteous milk-maid--egg,
that miracle of nature, which Burnett has compared to creation--and salt, the image of intellectual
excellence, which contributes to the foundation of a pudding." As long as the times spare us
these luxuries, we leave Hortensius to his peacocks; Heliogabalus to his dishes of cocks-combs;
and Domitian to his deliberations in what vase he may boil his huge turbot. We have epicures
as well as had our ancestors; and the wonted fires of Apicius and Sardanapalus may still live
in St. James's-street and Waterloo-place; but commend us to the board, where each guest, like
a true feeler, brings half the entertainment along with him. This brings us to notice Christmas,
a Poem, by Edward Moxon, full of ingenuousness and good feeling, in Crabbe-like measure; but,
captious reader, suspect not a pun on the poet of England's hearth--for a more unfortunate
name than Crabbe we do not recollect.

Mr. Moxon's is a modest little octavo, of 76 pages, which may be read between the first and
last arrival of a Christmas party. As a specimen, we subjoin the following:--

  Hail, Christmas! holy, joyous time,
  The boast of many an age gone by,
  And yet methinks unsung in rhyme,
  Though dear to bards of chivalry;
  Nor less of old to Church and State,
  As authors erudite relate.
  If so, my harp, thou friend to me,
  Thy chords I'll touch right merrily--

Then a fire-side picture of Christmas in the country:--

  The doughty host has gather'd round
  Those most for wit and mirth renown'd,
  And soon each neighbouring Squire will be
  With all the world in charity--
  Its cares and troubles all forgetting,
  Good-humour'd joke alone abetting.
  'Tis good and cheering to the soul
  To see the ancient wassail bowl
  No longer lying on its face,
  Or dusty in its hiding place.
  It brings to mind a day gone by,
  Our fathers and their chivalry--
  It speaks of courtly Knight and Squire,
  Of Lady's love, and Dame, and Friar,
  Of times, (perchance not better now,)
  When care had less of wrinkled brow--
  When she with hydra-troubled mien,
  Our greatest enemy, the Spleen,
  Was seldom, or was never seen.

  Now pledge they round each other's name,
  And drink to Squire and drink to Dame,
  While here, more precious far than gold,
  Sits womanhood, with modest eye--
  Glances to her the truth unfold,
  She shall not pass unheeded by.
  T'was woman that with health did greet,
  When Vortigern did Hengist meet--
  'Twas fair Rowena, Saxon maid,
  In blue-ey'd majesty array'd,
  Presented 'neath their witching roll
  To British Chief the wassail bowl.
  She touch'd to him, nor then in vain,
  He back return'd the health again.
  Thus 'tis with feelings kind as true
  They drink the tribute ever due,
  Nor would they less, tho' truth denied it,
  Their love for woman would decide it.

  Right merry now the hours they pass,
  Fleeting thru jocund pleasure's glass,
  The yule-clog too burns bright and clear,
  Auspicious of a happy year:
  While some with joke, and some with tale
  But all with sweeter mulled ale,
  Pass gaily time's swift stream along,
  With interlude of ancient song--
  And as each rosy cup they drain,
  Bounty replenishes again.
  An happy time! hours like to these,
  Tho' fleeting, never fail to please.
  Who reigns, who riots, or who sings,
  Or who enjoys the smiles of kings.
  What preacher follows half the town;
  Who pleads, with or without a gown;
  Who rules his wife, or who the state;
  Who little, or who truly great;
  What matters light the world amuse,
  Where half the other half abuse;
  Whether it shall be peace or war,
  Or we remain just as we are--
  Is all as one to those we see
  Around the cup of jollity.
  Old age, with joke will still crack on,
  And story will be dwelt upon--
  Till Christmas shows his ruddy nose,
  They will not seek for night's repose,
  Nor this their jovial meeting close.

A FRIEND.

In utter prostration, and sacred privacy of soul, I almost think now, and have often felt heretofore,
man may make a confessional of the breast of his brother man. Once I had such a friend--and
to me he was a priest. He has been so long dead, that it seems to me now, that I have almost
forgotten him--and that I remember only that he once lived, and that I once loved him with
all my affections. One such friend alone can ever, from the very nature of things, belong to
any one human being, however endowed by nature and beloved of heaven. He is felt to stand between
us and our upbraiding conscience. In his life lies the strength--the power--the virtue of ours--in
his death the better half of our whole being seems to expire. Such communion of spirit, perhaps,
can only be in existences rising towards their meridian; as the hills of life cast longer shadows
in the westering hours, we grow--I should not say more suspicious, for that may be too strong
a word--but more silent, more self-wrapt, more circumspect--less sympathetic even with kindred
and congenial natures, who will sometimes, in our almost sullen moods or theirs, seem as if
they were kindred and congenial no more--less devoted to Spirituals, that is, to Ideas, so
tender, true, beautiful, and sublime, that they seem to be inhabitants of heaven though born
of earth, and to float between the two regions, angelical and divine--yet felt to be mortal,
human still--the Ideas of passions, and desires, and affections, and "impulses that come to
us in solitude," to whom we breathe out our souls in silence, or in almost silent speech, in
utterly mute adoration, or in broken hymns of feeling, believing that the holy enthusiasm will
go with us through life to the grave, or rather knowing not, or feeling not, that the grave
is any thing more for us than a mere word with a somewhat mournful sound, and that life is
changeless, cloudless, unfading as the heaven of heavens, that lies to the uplifted fancy in
blue immortal calm, round the throne of the eternal Jehovah.--Noctes--Blackwood's Magazine.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLISH LANDSCAPE PAINTING.

The English school of landscape painting has come to be of the first rank, and the contemporaries
of Turner, Constable, Calcott, Thomson, Williams, Copley Fielding, and others whom we might
name even with these masters, have no reason to reproach themselves with any neglect of their
merits. The truth with which these artists have delineated the features of British landscape
is, according to general admission, unmatched by even the most splendid exertions of foreign
schools in the same department.--Quarterly Rev..

       *       *       *       *       *

PANORAMA OF THE RHINE.

