After a long struggling march, plodding through huge grasses and jungle, we reached a district
which I cannot otherwise describe than by calling it a "Church Estate." It is dedicated in
some mysterious manner to Lubari (Almighty), and although the king appeared to have authority
over some of the inhabitants of it, yet others had apparently a sacred character, exempting
them from the civil power, and he had no right to dispose of the land itself. In this territory
there are small villages only at every fifth mile, for there is no road, and the lands run
high again, whilst, from want of a guide, we often lost the track. It now transpired that Budja,
when he told at the palace that there was no road down the banks of the Nile, did so in consequence
of his fear that if he sent my whole party here they would rob these church lands, and so bring
him into a scrape with the wizards or ecclesiastical authorities. Had my party not been under
control, we could not have put up here; but on my being answerable that no thefts should take
place, the people kindly consented to provide us with board and lodgings, and we found them
very obliging. One elderly man, half-witted--they said the king had driven his senses from
him by seizing his house and family--came at once on hearing of our arrival, laughing and singing
in a loose jaunty maniacal manner, carrying odd sticks, shells, and a bundle of mbugu rags,
which he deposited before me, dancing and singing again, then retreating and bringing some
more, with a few plantains from a garden, when I was to eat, as kings lived upon flesh, and
"poor Tom" wanted some, for he lived with lions and elephants in a hovel beyond the gardens,
and his belly was empty. He was precisely a black specimen of the English parish idiot.

At last, with a good push for it, crossing hills and threading huge grasses, as well as extensive
village plantations lately devastated by elephants--they had eaten all that was eatable, and
what would not serve for food they had destroyed with their trunks, not one plantain or one
hut being left entire--we arrived at the extreme end of the journey, the farthest point ever
visited by the expedition on the same parallel of latitude as king Mtesa's palace, and just
forty miles east of it.

We were well rewarded; for the "stones," as the Waganda call the falls, was by far the most
interesting sight I had seen in Africa. Everybody ran to see them at once, though the march
had been long and fatiguing, and even my sketch-block was called into play.

The expedition had now performed its functions. I saw that old father Nile without any doubt
rises in the Victoria N'yanza, and, as I had foretold, that lake is the great source of the
holy river which cradled the first expounder of our religious belief. I mourned, however, when
I thought how much I had lost by the delays in the journey having deprived me of the pleasure
of going to look at the north-east corner of the N'yanza to see what connection there was,
by the strait so often spoken of, with it and the other lake where the Waganda went to get
their salt, and from which another river flowed to the north, making "Usoga an island." But
I felt I ought to be content with what I had been spared to accomplish; for I had seen full
half of the lake, and had information given me of the other half, by means of which I knew
all about the lake, as far, at least, as the chief objects of geographical importance were
concerned.

Let us now sum up the whole and see what it is worth. Comparative information assured me that
there was as much water on the eastern side of the lake as there is on the western--if anything,
rather more. The most remote waters, or top head of the Nile, is the southern end of the lake,
situated close on the third degree of south latitude, which gives to the Nile the surprising
length, in direct measurement, rolling over thirty-four degrees of latitude, of above 2300
miles, or more than one-eleventh of the circumference of our globe. Now from this southern
point, round by the west, to where the great Nile stream issues, there is only one feeder of
any importance, and that is the Kitangule river; whilst from the southernmost point, round
by the east, to the strait, there are no rivers at all of any importance; for the travelled
Arabs one and all aver, that from the west of the snow-clad Kilimandjaro to the lake where
it is cut by the second degree, and also the first degree of south latitude, there are salt
lakes and salt plains, and the country is hilly, not unlike Unyamuezi; but they said there
were no great rivers, and the country was so scantily watered, having only occasional runnels
and rivulets, that they always had to make long marches in order to find water when they went
on their trading journeys: and further, those Arabs who crossed the strait when they reached
Usoga, as mentioned before, during the late interregnum, crossed no river either.

There remains to be disposed of the "salt lake," which I believe is not a salt, but a fresh-water
lake; and my reasons are, as before stated, that the natives call all lakes salt, if they find
salt beds or salt islands in such places. Dr Krapf, when he obtained a sight of the Kenia mountain,
heard from the natives there that there was a salt lake to its northward, and he also heard
that a river ran from Kenia towards the Nile. If his information was true on this latter point,
then, without doubt, there must exist some connection between his river and the salt lake I
have heard of, and this in all probability would also establish a connection between my salt
lake and his salt lake which he heard was called Baringo. [22] In no view that can be taken
of it, however, does this unsettled matter touch the established fact that the head of the
Nile is in 3° south latitude, where in the year 1858, I discovered the head of the Victoria
N'yanza to be.

I now christened the "stones" One thing seemed at first perplexing--the volume of water in
the Kitangule looked as large as that of the Nile; but then the one was a slow river and the
other swift, and on this account I could form no adequate judgment of their relative values.

Not satisfied with my first sketch of the falls, I could not resist sketching them again; and
then, as the cloudy state of the weather prevented my observing for latitude, and the officer
of the place said a magnificent view of the lake could be obtained from the hill alluded to
as intercepting the view from the falls, we proposed going there; but Kasoro, who had been
indulged with nsunnu antelope skins, and with guinea-fowl for dinner, resisted this, on the
plea that I never should be satisfied. There were orders given only to see the "stones," and
if he took me to one hill I should wish to see another and another, and so on. It made me laugh,
for that had been my nature all my life; but, vexed at heart, and wishing to trick the young
tyrant, I asked for boats to shoot hippopotami, in the hope of reaching the hills to picnic;
but boating had never been ordered, and he would not listen to it. "Then bring fish," I said,
that I might draw them: no, that was not ordered. "Then go you to the palace, and leave me
to go to Urondogani to-morrow, after I have taken a latitude;" but the wilful creature would
not go until he saw me under way. And as nobody would do anything for me without Kasoro's orders,
I amused the people by firing at the ferry-boat upon the Usoga side, which they defied me to
hit, the distance being 500 yards; but nevertheless a bullet went through her, and was afterwards
brought by the Wasoga nicely folded up in a piece of mbugu. Bombay then shot a sleeping crocodile
with his carbine, whilst I spent the day out watching the falls.

This day also I spent watching the fish flying at the falls, and felt as if I only wanted a
wife and family, garden and yacht, rifle and rod, to make me happy here for life, so charming
was the place. What a place, I thought to myself, this would be for missionaries! They never
could fear starvation, the land is so rich; and, if farming were introduced by them, they might
have hundreds of pupils. I need say no more.

In addition to the rod-and-line fishing, a number of men, armed with long heavy poles with
two iron spikes, tied prong-fashion to one end, rushed to a place over a break in the falls,
which tired fish seemed to use as a baiting-room, dashed in their forks, holding on by the
shaft, and sent men down to disengaged the pined fish and relieve their spears. The shot they
made in this manner is a blind one--only on the chance of fish being there--and therefore always
doubtful in its result.

Church Estate again. As the clouds and Kasoro's wilfulness were still against me, and the weather
did not give hopes of a change, I sacrificed the taking of the latitude to gain time. I sent
Bombay with Kasoro to the palace, asking for the Sakibobo himself to be sent with an order
for five boats, five cows, and five goats, and also for a general order to go where I like,
and do what I like, and have fish supplied me; "for, though I know the king likes me, his officers
do not;" and then on separating I retraced my steps to the Church Estate.

1st.--To-day, after marching an hour, as there was now no need for hurrying, and a fine pongo
buck, the Ngubbi of Uganda, offered a tempting shot, I proposed to shoot it for the men, and
breakfast in a neighbouring village. This being agreed to, the animal was despatched, and we
no sooner entered the village than we heard that nsamma, a magnificent description of antelope,
abound in the long grasses close by, and that a rogue elephant frequents the plantains every
night. This tempting news created a halt. In the evening I killed a nsamma doe, an animal very
much like the Kobus Ellipsiprymnus, but without the lunated mark over the rump; and at night,
about 1 a.m., turned out to shoot an elephant, which we distinctly heard feasting on plantains;
but rain was falling, and the night so dark, he was left till the morning.

2d.--I followed up the elephant some way, till a pongo offering an irresistible shot I sent
a bullet through him, but he was lost after hours' tracking in the interminable large grasses.
An enormous snake, with fearful mouth and fangs, was speared by the men. In the evening I wounded
a buck nsamma, which, after tracking till dark, was left to stiffen ere the following morning;
and just after this on the way home, we heard the rogue elephant crunching the branches not
far off from the track; but as no one would dare follow me against the monster at this late
hour, he was reluctantly left to do more injury to the gardens.

3d.--After a warm search in the morning we found the nsamma buck lying in some water; the men
tried to spear him, but he stood at bay, and took another bullet. This was all we wanted, affording
one good specimen; so, after breakfast, we marched to Kirindi, where the villagers, hearing
of the sport we had had, and excited with the hopes of getting flesh, begged us to halt a day.

4th.--Not crediting the stories told by the people about the sport here, we packed to leave,
but were no sooner ready than several men ran hastily in to say some fine bucks were waiting
to be shot close by. This was too powerful a temptation to be withstood, so, shouldering the
rifle, and followed by half the village, if not more, women included, we went to the place,
but, instead of finding a buck--for the men had stretched a point to keep me at their village--we
found a herd of does, and shot one at the people's urgent request.

We reached this in one stretch, and put up in our old quarters, where the women of Mlondo provided
pombe, plantains, and potatoes, as before, with occasional fish, and we lived very happily
till the 10th, shooting buck, guinea-fowl, and florikan, when, Bombay and Kasoro arriving,
my work began again. These two worthies reached the palace, after crossing twelve considerable
streams, of which one was the Luajerri, rising in the lake. The evening of the next day after
leaving me at Kira, they obtained an interview with the king immediately; for the thought flashed
across his mind that Bombay had come to report our death, the Waganda having been too much
for the party. He was speedily undeceived by the announcement that nothing was the matter,
excepting the inability to procure boats, because the officers at Urondogani denied all authority
but the Sakibobo's, and no one would show Bana anything, however trifling, without an express
order for it.

Irate at this announcement, the king ordered the Sakibobo, who happened to be present, to be
seized and bound at once, and said warmly, "Pray, who is the king, that the Sakibobo's orders
should be preferred to mine?" and then turning to the Sakibobo himself, asked what he would
pay to be released? The Sakibobo, alive to his danger, replied at once, and without the slightest
hesitation, Eighty cows, eighty goats, eighty slaves, eighty mbugu, eighty butter, eighty coffee,
eighty tobacco, eighty jowari, and eighty of all the produce of Uganda. He was then released.
Bombay said Bana wished the Sakibobo to come to Urondogani, and gave him a start with five
boats, five cows, and five goats; to which the king replied, "Bana shall have all he wants,
nothing shall be denied him, not even fish; but it is not necessary to send the Sakibobo, as
boys carry all my orders to kings as well as subjects. Kasoro will return again with you, fully
instructed in everything, and, moreover, both he and Budja will follow Bana to Gani." Four
days, however, my men were kept at the palace ere the king gave them the cattle and leave to
join me, accompanied with one more officer, who had orders to find the boats at once, see us
off, and report the circumstance at court. Just as at the last interview, the king had four
women, lately seized and condemned to execution, squatting in his court. He wished to send
them to Bana, and when Bombay demurred, saying he had no authority to take women in that way,
the king gave him one, and asked him if he would like to see some sport, as he would have the
remaining women cut to pieces before him. Bombay, by his own account, behaved with great propriety,
saying Bana never wished to see sport of that cruel kind, and it would ill become him to see
sights which his master had not. Viarungi sent me some tobacco, with kind regards, and said
he and the Wazina had just obtained leave to return to their homes, K'yengo alone, of all the
guests, remaining behind as a hostage until Mtesa's powder-seeking Wakungu returned. Finally,
the little boy Lugoi had been sent to his home. Such was the tenor of Bombay's report.

11th.--The officer sent to procure boats, impudently saying there were none, was put in the
stocks by Kasoro, whilst other men went to Kirindi for sailors, and down the stream for boats.
On hearing the king's order that I was to be supplied with fish, the fishermen ran away, and
pombe was no longer brewed for fear of Kasoro.

12th.--To-day we slaughtered and cooked two cows for the journey--the remaining three and one
goat having been lost in the Luajerri--and gave the women of the place beads in return for
their hospitality. They are nearly all Wanyoro, having been captured in that country by king
Mtesa and given to Mlondo. They said their teeth were extracted, four to six lower incisors,
when they were young, because no Myoro would allow a person to drink from his cup unless he
conformed to that custom. The same law exists in Usoga.

Chapter XVI. Bahr El Abiad

First Voyage on the Nile--The Starting--Description of the River and the Country--Meet a Hostile
Vessel--A Naval Engagement--Difficulties and Dangers--Judicial Procedure--Messages from the
King of Uganda--His Efforts to get us back--Desertion--The Wanyoro Troops--Kamrasi--Elephant-Stalking--Diabolical
Possessions.

In five boats of five planks each, tied together and caulked with mbugu rags, I started with
twelve Wanguana, Kasoro and his page-followers, and a small crew, to reach Kamrasi's palace
in Unyoro--goats, dogs, and kit, besides grain and dried meat, filling up the complement--but
how many days it would take nobody knew. Paddles propelled these vessels, but the lazy crew
were slow in the use of them, indulging sometimes in racing spurts, then composedly resting
on their paddles whilst the gentle current drifted us along. The river, very unlike what it
was from the Ripon Falls downward, bore at once the character of river and lake--clear in the
centre, but fringed in most places with tall rush, above which the green banks sloped back
like park lands. It was all very pretty and very interesting, and would have continued so,
had not Kasoro disgraced the Union Jack, turning it to piratical purposes in less than one hour.

A party of Wanyoro, in twelve or fifteen canoes, made of single tree trunks, had come up the
river to trade with the Wasoga, and having stored their vessels with mbugu, dried fish, plantains
cooked and raw, pombe, and other things, were taking their last meal on shore before they returned
to their homes. Kasoro seeing this, and bent on a boyish spree, quite forgetting we were bound
for the very ports they were bound for, ordered our sailors to drive in amongst them, landed
himself, and sent the Wanyoro flying before I knew what game was up, and then set to pillaging
and feasting on the property of those very men whom it was our interest to propitiate, as we
expected them shortly to be our hosts.

The ground we were on belonged to king Mtesa, being a dependency of Uganda, and it struck me
as singular that Wanyoro should be found here; but I no sooner discovered the truth than I
made our boatmen disgorge everything they had taken, called back the Wanyoro to take care of
their things, and extracted a promise from Kasoro that he would not practise such wicked tricks
again, otherwise we could not travel together. Getting to boat again, after a very little paddling
we pulled in to shore, on the Uganda side, to stop for the night, and thus allowed the injured
Wanyoro to go down the river before us. I was much annoyed by this interruption, but no argument
would prevail on Kasoro to go on. This was the last village on the Uganda frontier, and before
we could go any farther on boats it would be necessary to ask leave of Kamrasi's frontier officer,
N'yamyonjo, to enter Unyoro. The Wanguana demanded ammunition in the most imperious manner,
whilst I, in the same tone, refused to issue any lest a row should take place and they then
would desert, alluding to their dastardly desertion in Msalala, when Grant was attacked. If
a fight should take place, I said they must flock to me at once, and ammunition, which was
always ready, would be served out to them. They laughed at this, and asked, Who would stop
with me when the fight began? This was making a jest of what I was most afraid of--that they
would all run away.

