When ice is used to cool wine, it will be ineffectual if it be applied, as is frequently the
case, only to the bottom of the bottle; in that case, the only part of the wine which will
be cooled is that part nearest the bottom. As the application of ice to the top of the bottle
establishes two currents, upwards and downwards, the liquid will undergo an effect in some
degree similar to that which would be produced by shaking the bottle. If there be any deposit
in the bottom whose weight, bulk for bulk, nearly equals that of the wine, such deposit will
be mixed through the liquid as effectually as if it had been shaken. In such cases, therefore,
the wine should be transferred into a clean bottle before it is cooled.

Why Cream collects on the surface of Milk.

There are numerous familiar effects which are manifestations of the principle now explained.
When a vessel of milk is allowed to remain a certain time at rest, it is observed that a stratum
of fluid will collect at the surface, differing in many qualities from that upon which it rests.
This is called cream; and the property by which it ascends to the surface is its relative levity;
it is composed of the lightest particles of the milk, which are in the first instance mixed
generally in the fluid; but which, when the liquid is allowed to rest, gradually arise through
it, and settle at the surface.

Directions engraved upon the Common Weather Glasses absurd.

The barometer has been called a weather glass. Rules are attempted to be established, by which,
from the height of the mercury, the coming state of the weather may be predicted, and we accordingly
find the words "Rain," "Fair," "Changeable," "Frost," &c., engraved on the scale attached to
common domestic barometers, as if, when the mercury stands at the height marked by these words,
the weather is always subject to the vicissitudes expressed by them. These marks are, however,
entitled to no attention; and it is only surprising to find their use continued in the present
times, when knowledge is so widely diffused. They are, in fact, to be ranked scarcely above
the vox stellarum, or astrological almanac.

Two barometers, one near the level of the River Thames, and the other on the heights of Hampstead,
will differ by half an inch; the latter being always half an inch lower than the former. If
the words, therefore, engraved upon the plates are to be relied on, similar changes of weather
could never happen at these two situations. But what is even more absurd, such a scale would
inform us that the weather at the foot of a high building, such as St. Paul's, must always
be different from the weather at the top of it.

It is observed that the changes of weather are indicated, not by the actual height of the mercury,
but by its change of height. One of the most general, though not absolutely invariable, rules
is, that when the mercury is very low, and therefore the atmosphere very light, high winds
and storms may be expected.

The following rules may generally be relied upon, at least to a certain extent:

1. Generally the rising of the mercury indicates the approach of fair weather; the falling
of it shows the approach of foul weather.

2. In sultry weather the fall of the mercury indicates coming thunder. In winter, the rise
of the mercury indicates frost. In frost, its fall indicates thaw; and its rise indicates snow.

3. Whatever change of weather suddenly follows a change in the barometer, may be expected to
last but a short time. Thus, if fair weather follow immediately the rise of the mercury, there
will be very little of it; and, in the same way if foul weather follow the fall of the mercury,
it will last but a short time.

4. If fair weather continue for several days, during which the mercury continually falls, a
long continuance of foul weather will probably ensue; and again, if foul weather continue for
several days, while the mercury continually rises, it long succession of fair weather will
probably succeed.

5. A fluctuating and unsettled state in the mercurial column indicates changeable weather.

The domestic barometer would become a much more useful instrument, if, instead of the words
usually engraved on the plate, a short list of the best established rules, such as the above,
accompanied it, which might be either engraved on the plate, or printed on a card. It would
be right, however, to express the rules only with that degree of probability which observation
of past phenomena has justified. There is no rule respecting these effects which will hold
good with perfect certainty in every case.

This volume, we should add, is by Dr. Lardner, the editor of the Cyclopædia, and is a good
model for his collaborateurs.

       *       *       *       *       *

REFLECTION.

It is better to reflect ourselves, than to suffer others to reflect for us. A philosopher has
a system; he views things according to his theory; he is unavoidably partial; and, like Lucian's
painter, he paints his one-eyed princes in profile.

       *       *       *       *       *

This superb work of modern art stands in one of the finest squares of St. Petersburgh, and
of Europe, according to Sir Robert Ker Porter. It was erected by command of the Empress Catherine,
and, like all her projects, bears the stamp of greatness. The name of the artist is Falconet:
"he was a Frenchman; but," adds Sir R.K.P. "this statue, for genius and exquisite execution,
would have done honour to the best sculptors of any nation. A most sublime conception is displayed
in the design. The allegory is finely imagined; and had he not sacrificed the result of the
whole to the prominence of his group, the grand and united effect of the statue and its pedestal
striking at once upon the eye, would have been unequalled in the works of man. A mass of granite,
of a size at present most immense, but formerly most astonishing, is the pedestal. A steep
acclivity, like that of a rugged mountain, carries the eye to its summit, which looks down
on the opposite side to a descent nearly perpendicular. The figure of the hero is on horseback,
supposed to have attained the object of his ambition, by surmounting all the apparent impossibilities
which so arduous an enterprise presented. The victorious animal is proudly rearing on the highest
point of the rock, whilst his imperial master stretches forth his mighty arm, as the father
and protector of his country. A serpent, in attempting to impede his course, is trampled on
by the feet of the horse, and writhing in all the agonies of expiring nature. The Emperor is
seated on the skin of a bear; and habited in a tunic, or sort of toga which forms the drapery
behind. His left hand guides the reins; his right is advanced straight forward on the same
side of the horse's neck. The head of the statue is crowned with a laurel wreath." It was formed
from a bust of Peter, modelled by a young French damsel. The contour of the face expresses
the most powerful command, and exalted, boundless, expansion of thought. "The horse, says Sir
Robert, is not to be surpassed. To all the beauties of the ancient form, it unites the easy
grace of nature with a fire which pervades every line; and gives such a life to the statue,
that as you gaze you expect to see it leap from the pinnacle into the air. The difficulty of
keeping so great a mass of weighty metal in so volant an attitude, has been admirably overcome
by the artist. The sweep of the tail, with the hinder parts of the horse, are interwoven with
the curvatures of the expiring snake; and together compose a sufficient counterpoise to the
figure and forepart of the animal."[6]

    [6] Travelling Sketches in Russia and Sweden. By Sir Robert Ker
        Porter, 4to.

Our representation of this masterpiece of art is copied from a Russian medallion presented
to our ingenious artist, Mr. W.H. Brooke, by M. Francia.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAMILY POETRY.

  --Modo sumptâ veste virili!--HOR.

  Zooks! I must woo the Muse to-day,
    Though line before I'd never wrote!
  "On what occasion?" do you say?
    OUR DICK HAS GOT A LONG-TAIL'D COAT!

  Not a coatee, which soldiers wear
    Button'd up high about the throat,
  But easy, flowing, debonair--
    In short a civil long-tail'd Coat.

  A smarter you'll not find in town
    Cut by Nugee, that Snip of note;
  A very quiet olive-brown
    's the colour of Dick's long-tail'd Coat.

  Gay jackets clothe the stately Pole,
    The proud Hungarian, and the Croat,
  Yet Esterhazy, on the whole,
    Looks best when in a long-tail'd Coat.

  Lord Byron most admired, we know,
    The Albanian dress, or Suliote;
  But then he died some years ago,
    And never saw Dick's long-tail'd Coat.

  Or, past all doubt, the Poet's theme
    Had never been the "White Capote,"
  Had he once view'd, in Fancy's dream,
    The glories of Dick's long-tail'd Coat.

  We also know on Highland kilt
    Poor dear Glengary used to dote,
  And had esteem'd it actual guilt
    I' "the Gael" to wear a long-tail'd Coat,

  No wonder 'twould his eyes annoy,
    Monkbarns himself would never quote
  "Sir Robert Sibbald," "Gordon," "Roy,"
    Or "Stukely" for a long-tail'd Coat.

  Jackets may do to ride a race,
    Or row in, when one's in a boat;
  But, in the Boudoir, sure, for grace
    There's nothing like Dick's long-tail'd Coat.

  Of course, in climbing up a tree,
    On terra firma, or afloat.
  To mount the giddy top-mast, he
    Would doff awhile his long-tail'd Coat.

  What makes you simper, then, and sneer?
    From out your own eye pull the mote;
  A pretty thing for you to jeer!
    Haven't you, too, got a long-tail'd Coat?

  Oh! "Dick's scarce old enough," you mean?
    Why, though too young to give a vote,
  Or make a will, yet, sure, Fifteen
    's a ripe age for a long-tail'd Coat.

  What! would you have him sport a chin
    Like Colonel Stanhope, or that goat
  O'Gorman Mahon, ere begin
    To figure in a long-tail'd Coat?

  Suppose he goes to France--can he
    Sit down at any table d'hôte,
  With any sort of decency,
    Unless he's got a long-tail'd Coat?

  Why Louis Philippe, Royal Cit,
    There soon may be a sans culotte;
  And Nugents self must then admit
    The advantage of a long-tail'd Coat.

  Things are not now as when, of yore,
    In Tower encircled by a moat,
  The lion-hearted chieftain wore
    A corselet for a long-tail'd Coat.

  Then ample mail his form embraced,
    Not, like a weazel, or a stoat,
  "Cribb'd and confined" about the waist,
    And pinch'd in, like Dick's long-tail'd Coat;--

  With beamy spear, orbiting axe,
    To right and left he thrust and smote--
  Ah! what a change! no sinewy thwacks
    Fall from a modern long tail'd Coat.

  For stalwart knights, a puny race
    In stays, with locks en papillote,
  While cuirass, cuisses, greaves give place
    To silk-net Tights, and long-tail'd Coat.

  Worse changes still! now, well-a-day!
    A few cant phrases learnt by rote
  Each beardless booby spouts away,
    A Solon, in a long-tail'd Coat.

  Prates of "The march of intellect"--
    --"The schoolmaster" a Patriote
  So noble, who could ere suspect
    Had just put on a long-tail'd Coat?

  Alack! Alack! that every thick-
    skull'd lad must find an antidote
  For England's woes, because, like Dick.
    He has put on a long-tail'd Coat.

  But lo! my rhymes begin to fail,
    Nor can I longer time devote;
  Thus rhyme and time cut short the tale,
    The long tale of Dick's long-tail'd Coat.

Blackwood's Magazine.

