Yvetot, a town and commune of ancient Normandy (Pays de Caux), in the department of Seine-Inférieure,
now traversed by the railway leading from Havre de Grâce to Rouen, was, in the sixth century,
the seigniory of one Vauthier, chamberlain to Clotaire I., the royal son of Clovis and Clotilda.
Nothing whatever is known of the earlier part of Vauthier's history, more than that he held
the fief of Yvetot from Clotaire by the feudal tenure of military service. An able and trustworthy
statesman in the council-chamber, a valiant and skilful commander in the battle-field, the
chamberlain lived on terms of the most intimate familiarity with his king, who ever lent a
ready ear to his sage suggestions. This high honour, however, being not at all agreeable to
the other followers of the court, they entered into a conspiracy to ruin the favourite chamberlain.
Taking advantage of his absence, they perfidiously vilified him to the king. The chroniclers
do not state what were the exact charges brought against him, but they must have been weighty
and artfully insinuated, for the rude and truculent Clotaire swore that he would, with his
own hand, slay the Sieur of Yvetot, when and wherever he should chance to meet with him. The
reader must not be surprised at such a vow: in those days, sovereigns frequently indulged in
a plurality of offices, and could upon occasion perform the duty of the executioner as well
as that of the judge. Vauthier happened to have a friend at court, who sent him timely warning
of this state of affairs; and not thinking it by any means prudent to expose himself to the
lethal fury of a king who had unscrupulously killed his own nephews, he left the country, and
joined the army of the north, then fighting against the Thuringian pagans, the enemies of Clotaire
and his religion, such as it was.

After ten years of arduous service and heroic exploits, Vauthier, crowned with glory, and hoping
that time had mollified the malignant feelings of the king, turned his face once more towards
his native country. But at that period bad passions were not so easily effaced; besides, the
accusers of Vauthier were now doubly interested in keeping him at a distance. The Lord of Yvetot,
hearing how matters stood, to make sure of a favourable reception, proceeded, in the first
instance, to Rome, where he made a friend of Pope Agapet, who sent him with letters to Clotaire,
in the capacity of an envoy. Under the shield of so sacred a function, Vauthier had no hesitation
in repairing to Soissons, and presenting himself before the king; yet, to be still more secure,
he chose for that occasion the solemnities of Good Friday--the anniversary of the great day
of Christian mercy. Clotaire was at the high altar of the cathedral, celebrating the holiest
rites of the church before a crucifix veiled in mourning, when Vauthier made his presence known.
Throwing himself on his knees in humble supplication, he presented the letters of the sovereign
pontiff, and implored pardon, if he had been guilty, by the merits of Him who, on the same
day, had so freely shed his blood for the salvation of all mankind. The ferocious and implacable
king recognised the suppliant, and, without regard to the sanctity of either the place or the
day, drew his sword, and, with one blow, struck the unfortunate chamberlain dead on the stone
pavement, at the very steps of the altar.

Violent passions have, generally speaking, rapid revulsions. Scarcely was Vauthier's body cold,
when the king repented his hasty deed. The clergy read to him the letters from Pope Agapet,
which attested the innocence of his former favourite; and they represented to him, that he
had committed the grossest description of sacrilege, the sin from which the sovereign pontiff
alone could absolve. In a short time the barbarous Clotaire passed from a state of rabid fury
to one of the most abject despair, so that he required little persuasion from the clergy ere
he sent a messenger to Rome, bearing rich presents, to beg for absolution from the pope. The
messenger arrived at Rome just as Agapet was at the point of death; yet the business being
urgent, and the presents valuable, he was ushered into the sick-chamber of the dying head of
the Christian church. Supported by attendants, the pope proceeded to pronounce, in a feeble
voice, the penitential discipline of Clotaire. He said that the king could not expect pardon
unless he gave the highest possible satisfaction to the heirs of the murdered man: but here
a fit of coughing attacked and carried off his holiness, so that whatever penance he intended
to inflict was never known. Clotaire, however, determined to expiate his crime, long pondered
upon the meaning of the pope's dying words, and at last concluded that, as there was nothing
higher than a king, the words 'highest satisfaction' meant that he should raise the heir of
Vauthier to the royal dignity. Accordingly, he by charter erected the seigniory of Yvetot into
a kingdom--an act in perfect consonance with the ancient French feudal law, which enfranchised
the family of the vassal from all homage and duty, if his lord laid violent hands upon him.

From that time until the latter part of the eighteenth century, the descendants of Vauthier
reigned as independent sovereigns of their little kingdom of Yvetot, owing neither tribute,
service, nor allegiance to any other power. Consequently, until the great Revolution, which,
like the bursting of a pent-up deluge, changed the features of the whole country, the inhabitants
of Yvetot paid no taxes to the government of France.

Historians and jurisconsults have written many grave and learned dissertations on the curious
position of this little kingdom shut up in a greater one; and, though they differ in some trifling
respects, they all coincide in concluding, that the king of Yvetot, being independent of any
other potentate, was never obliged to engage in quarrels which did not concern him, and accordingly
lived in peace with his neighbours, whom he never pretended to frighten. Moreover, in spite
of courtiers and counsellors, statecraft and politics were unknown in Yvetot; thus the king
remained neuter during the various wars that raged around him, though he could bring an army
of one hundred and twenty royal troops into the field. The seriousness of these disquisitions
has been occasionally enlivened by a spice of pleasantry. We are told how the king of Yvetot
kept his own seals, and was his own minister of finance; that his court consisted of a bishop,
a dean, and four canons, not one of whom ranked higher in the church than a parish curé; four
notaries, dignified by the title of judges, representing the states of the kingdom, formed
the senate, and composed his majesty's privy-council; four of the best-looking of the tenants'
daughters were ladies of the bed-chamber and maids of honour to the queen; four stalwart body-guards
attended on all occasions of ceremony--at other times, they worked as agricultural labourers
on the royal farm; a footman performed the duty of chamberlain, and, when necessary, that of
herald; a groom was master of the horse; a gardener superintended the woods and forests. This,
however, is only a traditionary account of the court of Yvetot; and, lest the reader should
think it all a joke, we shall specify some of the documentary evidence still extant respecting
that little kingdom.

A decree of the Court of Exchequer of Normandy, executed in the year 1392, mentions the king
of Yvetot; and various letters-patent, granted by monarchs of France in 1401, 1450, and 1464,
acknowledge and confirm the title. In the early part of the fifteenth century, when Normandy
was under English rule, one John Holland, an Englishman, claimed, in the name of his master
Henry VI., certain taxes and feudal duties from the kingdom of Yvetot. Strange to say, in those
semi-barbarous days, the case was tried in a court of law, and the issue given against Holland,
the court fully recognising the Lord of Yvetot as an independent king. A letter of Francis
I., addressed to the queen of Yvetot, is still in existence. In one of the many episodes of
the wars of the League, it happened that Henry IV., compelled to retreat, found himself in
Yvetot, and determined not to recede further, he cheered his troops by jocularly saying: 'If
we lose France, we must take possession of this fair kingdom of Yvetot.' At the coronation
of his second wife, Mary de Medici, the same monarch rebuked the grand chamberlain for not
assigning to Martin du Belley, then king of Yvetot, a position suitable to his regal dignity.
The Belley dynasty reigned in Yvetot for 332 years. The last king of that petty kingdom was
D'Albon St Marcel, who, when at the court of Louis XVI., modestly assumed no higher rank than
that of a prince. The Revolution, as we have already intimated, swept away the ancient crown,
and the King of Yvetot is now nothing more than the title of a song, with its burden--

    Ha, ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho!

RELATIONSHIPS.

MASTER AND SERVANT.

The relationship of a master and servant--or, to use the modern phrase, employer and employed--is
properly constituted by the agreement of one individual to perform certain duties to another;
that is, instead of being guided solely by his own will, to submit himself to perform in certain
matters the will of another.

The extent of duty which is embraced in the contract may vary very much. It may be only for
the performance of one single act, or it may be for almost the whole range of daily avocations
and duties. There is often a vagueness about the limit of duties, and we often find the master
inclined to exact more than the servant is inclined to give. There are very good reasons why
masters should not consider themselves as having a right to a full command and power over their
servants in all things; nay, that in things not within the contract, they should be inclined
to admit a certain equality in the two parties. Masters are too apt to regard themselves as
the lords of their servants in all respects and at all times. They exercise an authority and
assume a superiority in matters beyond the contract.

On their side, servants often grudgingly perform the duties they have undertaken. These two
causes of discontent produce the worst results.

The practical remedy seems to be, that masters ought more generally to recognise and act on
the principle, that the lordship they bargain for is not of the whole man, but only in certain
respects and duties; and that it is only as regards those duties they can expect their servant
to surrender his will to the guidance of his master's: while it should be equally impressed
on the servant, that in those respects in which he has agreed to submit to and execute the
will of his master, that submission and surrender of his will should be absolute, and without
the least reserve or limitation. Perfect obedience is a beautiful fulfilment of duty, and defensible
on the grounds of common-sense; for as no one can serve two masters--that is, in the performance
of any particular duty--so no man can both obey his own inclination and submit himself to his
master's will in the performance of the same act.

On moral grounds, it is improper that any one should attempt to execute in all things the will,
of any earthly master; for there is a power, and, in most cases, several powers, superior to
both master and servant, to whom both owe duties; and therefore the servant cannot legally,
nor without failure in his higher duties, enter into any contract which may hinder the performance
of those duties. In matters of the law, it is held that such a contract is not binding; and
thus, in the case of a moral law being contravened by a contract, a door of escape is open
to those who have entered into such contract, it being in opposition to the will of a higher
authority.

When a servant, therefore, is in duty bound to execute the will of his master, his obedience
should be perfect. All hesitation or murmuring is a violation of his contract--a breaking of
his promise and agreement.

But the master and servant should equally learn, that in other respects, and at other times,
the parties are not necessarily in the state of superior and inferior; but, unless from some
other cause, are to be regarded as on a footing of equality; and this is the true interpretation
of the doctrine of fraternity and equality, which has, from not being properly understood,
played such wild work among some neighbouring nations. In this sense, however, it is safe and
useful.

Not only, however, may the individuals who sometimes and in some respects are master and servant,
be at other times and in other respects regarded as on a level, but they may with propriety,
and often do, change places. The servant becomes of right the master. For if he should employ
that master as his physician or lawyer, no matter what may be considered the respective ranks
of the parties, the physician or lawyer must, to perform his duty, become the servant, and
submit his will in the business he is employed in to that of his employer.

This way of regarding servitude is not a degrading one, but the reverse. Nothing is so pleasant
to a reasonable and truly noble mind as to pay obedience to those to whom it is due; and if
the adaptability of the same individual to be both master and servant was more practically
carried out, our civilisation would work more smoothly, and we should probably approach more
to that desirable state in which no one would have a stigma attached to him from his birth
or occupation, but only from the manner in which he performed his duty.

It would help considerably towards a proper understanding of the relationship between employers
and employed, if the employed would, for their own sake, maintain that degree of self-respect
which would induce others to respect them. On this point we would speak kindly, yet frankly,
and cannot do better than quote a passage from a small treatise on Political Economy, just
published.[7] 'The true relationship between employers and employed is that subsisting between
a purchaser and a seller. The employer buys; the employed sells; and the thing sold is labour.
Attaining a clear conviction on this point, the connection between the two parties is that
of mutual independence. Thrown much together, however, a spirit of courtesy and good-fellowship
ought to temper the intercourse, and it will be the better for all parties if this spirit prevails.
In some situations, however, there is shewn a disposition on the part of workmen to ask favours
of employers--as, for example, seeking to absent themselves on holidays without a corresponding
reduction in the amount of wages. This seems to be as wrong as it would be for the employer
to ask his workmen to labour certain days for nothing. The rights and obligations are distinctly
mutual. One has no right to encroach on the other; and, indeed, there can be no encroachment,
no favour asked, on either side, without a certain loss of independence. This feeling of independence
should be carefully cultivated and preserved, along with those habits of courtesy which soften
the general intercourse of society.'

