He was otherwise occupied. Being in urgent need of money, with which to evade the grasp of
his numerous creditors, he returned to his stock-jobbing pursuits--if indeed he had not been
engaging in them all along; using his proposal for employment under Lord Cochrane as a blind
or as a secondary resource. Instead of furthering his efforts to obtain this employment, he
contrived a plan for causing a sudden rise in the funds, and thereby securing a large profit
to himself and his accomplices. On the 20th of February he presented himself at the Ship Hotel
at Dover, disguised as a foreigner and calling himself Colonel De Bourg, professing that he
brought intelligence from France to the effect that Buonaparte had been killed by the Cossacks,
that the allied armies were in full march towards Paris, and that a speedy cessation of the
war was certain. Thence he hurried up to London and was traced to have gone, on the following
morning, to Lord Cochrane's house. The ostensible object of that visit was to renew his application
for employment on board the Tonnant. The real object was, by means of a trick, to get possession
of a hat and cloak, with which to disguise himself afresh, and thus try to elude the pursuit
of agents of the Stock Exchange, who would soon seek to punish him for his fraud. The disguise
was given to him in all innocence, and might have been successful, had not Lord Cochrane, on
finding how grossly he had been deceived, volunteered to assist in punishing the culprit. Leaving
the Tonnant, in which he was about to start from Chatham, he returned to London, and gave full
information as to his share in the transaction, with the view of furthering the cause of justice
and clearing himself from all blame.

That was prevented by as wanton a prosecution and as malicious a perverting of the forms of
justice and the principles of equity as the annals of English law, not often abused even in
a much less degree, can show. The straightforward evidence furnished by him was made the handle
to an elaborate machinery of falsehood and perjury for effecting his own ruin. The solicitor
who had managed the cause of the Admiralty at the court-martial on Lord Gambier, and therein
proved his skill, was entrusted with the ugly work. By him an elaborate case for prosecution
was trumped up, and Lord Cochrane, hindered from sailing to North America in the Tonnant, and
hindered from obtaining any other employment in his country's service during four-and-thirty
years, was, on the 8th of June, placed in the prisoner's dock at the Court of King's Bench
on a charge of conspiring with his uncle, Mr. Cochrane Johnstone, with De Berenger, and with
some other persons, to defraud the Stock Exchange. Lord Ellenborough, who presided at the trial,
delivered a charge which was even more virulent and more marked by political spite than was
his wont, and the too compliant jury brought in a verdict of "guilty." Lord Cochrane vainly
sought for a new trial, and vainly adduced abundant proof of his innocence. The chance of justice
that is every Englishman's right was denied to him. He was sentenced to an hour's detention
in the pillory at the entrance of the Royal Exchange, to a year's imprisonment in the King's
Bench Prison, and to a fine of a thousand pounds.

The first part of the sentence was not insisted upon, as Sir Francis Burdett, Lord Cochrane's
noble-hearted colleague as member for Westminster, avowed his intention of standing also in
the pillory, if his friend was subjected to that indignity, and of thus encouraging the storm
of popular indignation, that, without any such encouragement, would probably have led to consequences
which the Government, already hated by all Englishmen who loved their birthright, dared not
brook. But the unworthy vengeance of his persecutors was amply satisfied in other ways. He
had already suffered more than most men. "Neglect," he said, "I was accustomed to. But when
an alleged offence was laid to my charge, in which, on the honour of a man now on the brink
of the grave, I had not the slightest participation, and from which I never benefited, nor
thought to benefit one farthing, and when this allegation was, by political rancour and legal
chicanery, consummated in an unmerited conviction and an outrageous sentence, my heart for
the first time sank within me, as conscious of a blow, the effect of which it has required
all my energies to sustain."

It is needless now to say anything in proof of Lord Cochrane's innocence of the charge brought
against him. The world has long since reversed the verdict passed at Lord Ellenborough's dictation.
That an officer and a gentleman of Lord Cochrane's reputation should have demeaned himself
by becoming a party to the fraud of which he was accused, is, to say the least, improbable.
That, if he had been guilty of that fraud, he should not have availed himself of the only benefit
that could be derived from it by investing in the stocks when they were low and selling out
during the brief time of their artificial value, is far more improbable. That, when the fraud
was perpetrated, and its chief instrument was undiscovered, he should have left the Tonnant
in order to expose him, instead of taking him away from England, and so almost ensuring the
preservation of the secret, is utterly impossible.

His only faults were too great faith in his own innocence and a too chivalrous desire to protect,
or rather to abstain from injuring, his unworthy kinsman. "I must be here distinctly understood,"
it was said by Lord Brougham, in his "Historic Sketches of British Statesmen," "to deny the
accuracy of the opinion which Lord Ellenborough appears to have formed in this case, and deeply
to lament the verdict of 'guilty' which the jury returned after three hours' consultation and
hesitation. If Lord Cochrane was at all aware of his uncle Mr. Cochrane Johnstone's proceedings,
it was the whole extent of his privity to the fact. Having been one of the counsel engaged
in the cause, I can speak with some confidence respecting it, and I take upon me to assert
that Lord Cochrane's conviction was mainly owing to the extreme repugnance which he felt to
giving up his uncle, or taking those precautions for his own safety which would have operated
against that near relation. Even when he, the real criminal, had confessed his guilt by taking
to flight, and the other defendants were brought up for judgment, we, the counsel, could not
persuade Lord Cochrane to shake himself loose from the contamination by abandoning him."

Part of a letter addressed to the Earl of Dundonald in 1859, on the anniversary of his eighty-fourth
birthday, and shortly after the publication of the first volume of his "Autobiography of a
Seaman," by the daughter of the man whose wrong-doing had conduced so terribly to his misfortunes,
may here be fitly quoted:--"You are still active, still in health," says the writer, "and you
have just given to the world a striking proof of the vigour of your mind and intellect. Many
years I cannot wish for you; but may you live to finish your book, and, if it please God, may
you and I have a peaceful death-bed. We have both suffered much mental anguish, though in various
degrees; for yours was indeed the hardest lot that an honourable man can be called on to bear.
Oh, my dear cousin, let me say once more, whilst we are still here, how, ever since that miserable
time, I have felt that you suffered for my poor father's fault--how agonizing that conviction
was--how thankful I am that tardy justice was done you. May God return you fourfold for your
generous though misplaced confidence in him, and for all your subsequent forbearance!"

Another extract from a letter, from one out of a multitude of tributes to the Earl of Dundonald's
honourable bearing, which were tendered after his death, shall close this introductory chapter.
"Five years after the trial of Lord Cochrane," wrote Sir Fitzroy Kelly, now Lord Chief Baron,
on the 17th of December, 1860, "I began to study for the bar, and very soon became acquainted
with and interested in his case, and I have thought of it much and long during more than forty
years; and I am profoundly convinced that, had he been defended singly and separately from
the others accused, or had he at the last moment, before judgment was pronounced, applied,
with competent legal advice and assistance, for a new trial, he would have been unhesitatingly
and honourably acquitted. We cannot blot out this dark page from our legal and judicial history."

CHAPTER II.

[1814.]

The famous and infamous Stock Exchange trial occupied the 8th and 9th of June, 1814; but the
sentence was deferred until the 21st of the same month, in consequence of Lord Cochrane's demand
for a new trial. That demand was not complied with, in spite of the production of overwhelming
evidence to justify it; and the victim of Lord Ellenborough and the tyrannical Government of
the day was at once conveyed to the King's Bench Prison. No time was lost in heaping upon him
all the indignities which, in accordance with precedent and in excess of all precedent, might
supplement his degradation.

The first was a notice of motion which would result in his expulsion from the House of Commons.
Lord Cochrane promptly availed himself of the opening thus afforded for a public avowal of
his innocence. To the Hon. Charles Abbot, then Speaker of the House, he wrote from his prison
on the 23rd of June. "Sir," runs the letter, "I respectfully entreat you to communicate to
the Honourable House of Commons my earnest desire and prayer that no question arising out of
the late convictions in the Court of King's Bench may be agitated without affording me timely
notice and full opportunity of attending in my place for the justification of my character.
From the House of Commons I hope to obtain that justice of which too implicit reliance on the
consciousness of my innocence, and circumstances over which I had no control, have hitherto
deprived me. The painful situation in which I am placed is known to the House, and I trust
that I shall be enabled to demonstrate that a more injured man has never sought redress from
those to whose justice I now appeal for the preservation of my character and existence."

In compliance with that request, and with parliamentary rules, Lord Cochrane was conveyed from
the King's Bench Prison to the House of Commons, and allowed to read a carefully-prepared statement
of his case, on the 5th of July, the day fixed for investigation of the subject. From this
statement it is not necessary to cite the clear and conclusive recapitulation of the evidence
adduced at the trial, or refused admission therein because it was too convincing, in proof
of Lord Cochrane's innocence; but room must be found for some passages illustrating the independent
temper of the speaker and the perversions of justice to which he fell a victim.

"I am not here, sir," he said, "to bespeak compassion or to pave the way to pardon. Both ideas
are alike repugnant to my feelings. That the public in general have felt indignation at the
sentence that has been passed upon me does honour to their hearts, and tends still to make
my country dear to me, in spite of what I have suffered from the malignity of persons in power.
But, sir, I am not here to complain of the hardship of my case or about the cruelty of judges,
who, for an act which was never till now ever known or thought to be a legal offence, have
laid upon me a sentence more heavy than they have ever yet laid upon persons clearly convicted
of the most horrid of crimes--crimes of which nature herself cries aloud against the commission.
If, therefore, it was my object to complain of the cruelty of my judges, I should bid the public
look into the calendar, and see if they could find a punishment like that inflicted on me;
inflicted by these same judges on any one of these unnatural wretches. It is not, however,
my business to complain of the cruelty of this sentence. I am here to assert, for the third
time, my innocence in the most unqualified and solemn manner; I am here to expose the unfairness
of the proceedings against me previous to the trial, at the trial, and subsequent to it; I
am here to expose the long train of artful villainies which have been practised against me
hitherto with so much success.

"I am persuaded, sir, that the House will easily perceive, and every honourable man, I am sure,
participate in my feelings, that the fine, the imprisonment, the pillory--even that pillory
to which I am condemned--are nothing, that they weigh not as a feather, when put in the balance
against my desire to show that I have been unjustly condemned. Therefore, sir, I trust that
the House will give a fair and impartial hearing to what I have to say respecting the conduct
of my enemies, to expose which conduct is a duty which I owe to my constituents, and to my
country, not less than to myself.

"In the first place, sir, I here, in the presence of this House, and with the eyes of the country
fixed upon me, most solemnly declare that I am wholly innocent of the crime which has been
laid to my charge, and for which I have been condemned to the most infamous of punishments.
Having repeated this assertion of my innocence, I next proceed to complain of the means that
have been made use of to effect my destruction. And first, sir, was it ever before known in
this or in any other country, that the prosecutor should form a sort of court of his own erection,
call witnesses before it of his own choosing, and, under offers of great rewards, take minutes
of the evidence of such witnesses, and publish those minutes to the world under the forms and
appearances of a judicial proceeding? Was it ever before known, that steps like these were
taken previous to an indictment,--previous to the bringing of an intended victim into a court
of justice? Was there ever before known so regular, so systematic a scheme for exciting suspicion
against a man, and for implanting an immovable prejudice against him in the minds of a whole
nation, previous to the preferring a Bill of Indictment, in order that the grand jury, be it
composed of whomsoever it might, should be predisposed to find the bill? I ask you, sir, and
I ask the House, whether it was ever before known, that means like these were resorted to,
previous to a man's being legally accused? But, sir, what must the world think, when they see
some of those to whom the welfare and the honour of the nation are committed covertly co-operating
with a Committee of the Stock Exchange, and becoming their associates in so nefarious a scheme?
Nevertheless, sir, this fact is now notorious to the whole world. I must confess I was not
prepared to believe the thing possible."

Thereupon followed a detailed examination of the charges brought against Lord Cochrane, and
of the way in which those charges were handled, special complaint being made concerning the
malicious bearing of Lord Ellenborough. "It must be in the recollection of the House," said
Lord Cochrane, "as it is in that of the public, that he urged, that he compelled, the counsel
to enter upon my defence after midnight, at the end of fifteen hours from the commencement
of the trial, when that counsel declared himself quite exhausted, and when the jury, who were
to decide, were in a state of such weariness as to render attention to what was said totally
impossible. The speeches of the counsel being ended, the judge, at half-past three in the morning,
adjourned the court till ten; thus separating the evidence from the argument, and reserving
his own strength, and the strength of my adversaries' advocates, for the close; giving to both
the great advantage of time to consider the reply, and to insert and arrange arguments to meet
those which had been urged in my defence."

All his treatment by Lord Ellenborough, as Lord Cochrane urged, was of that sort, or worse.
"Of all tyrannies, sir," he said, "the worst is that which exercises its vengeance under the
guise of judicial proceedings, and especially if a jury make part of the means by which its
base purposes are effected. The man who is flung into prison, or sent to the scaffold, at the
nod of an avowed despotism, has at least the consolation to know that his sufferings bring
down upon that despotism the execration of mankind; but he who is entrapped and entangled in
the meshes of a crafty and corrupt system of jurisprudence; who is pursued imperceptibly by
a law with leaden feet and iron jaws; who is not put upon his trial till the ear of the public
has been poisoned, and its heart steeled against him,--falls, at last, without being cheered
with a hope of seeing his tyrants execrated even by the warmest of his friends. In their principle,
the ancient and settled laws of England are excellent; but of late years, so many injurious
and fatal alterations in the law have taken place, that any man who ventures to meddle with
public affairs, and to oppose persons in power, is sure and certain, sooner or later, to suffer
in some way or other.

"Sir, the punishment which the malice of my enemies has procured to be inflicted on me is not,
in my mind, worth a moment's reflection. The judge supposed, apparently, that the sentence
of the pillory would disgrace and mortify me. I can assure him, and I now solemnly assure this
House, my constituents, and my country, that I would rather stand in my own name, in the pillory,
every day of my life, under such a sentence, than I would sit upon the bench in the name and
with the real character of Lord Ellenborough for one single hour.

"Something has been said, sir, in this House, as I have heard, about an application for a mitigation
of my sentence, in a certain quarter, where, it is observed, that mercy never failed to flow;
but I can assure the House that an application for pardon, extorted from me, is one of the
things which even a partial judge and a packed jury have not the power to accomplish. No, sir;
I will seek for, and I look for, pardon nowhere, for I have committed no crime. I have sought
for, I still seek for, and I confidently expect JUSTICE; not, however, at the hands of those
by whose machinations I have been brought to what they regard as my ruin, but at the hands
of my enlightened and virtuous constituents, to whose exertions the nation owes that there
is still a voice to cry out against that haughty and inexorable tyranny which commands silence
to all but parasites and hypocrites."

