"It seems a hard thing to you at first, no doubt," she said, composedly. "But you would find
interests and amusements in course of time. You would have six months of the year in which
to go abroad, or to divert yourself in London. You should have a sufficient income. And my
other condition is that you marry as soon as you can find a suitable wife."

"Marry?" said Hugo, in dismay. "I never thought of marriage!" |

"You will think of it some time, I presume. An early marriage is good for young men. I should
like to see you married, and have your children growing up about me."

"Perhaps you have thought of a suitable lady?" said Hugo, with a half-sneer. The prospect that
had seemed so desirable at first was now very much lowered in his estimation, and he did not
disguise the sullen anger that he felt. But he hardly expected Mrs. Luttrell's answer.

"Yes, I have."

"Indeed! Who is it?"

"Miss Murray. Elizabeth Murray, to whom your cousins' estates have gone."

"What sort of a person is she?"

"Young, beautiful, rich. A little older than yourself, but not much. You would make a fine
couple, Hugo. She came to see me the other day, and you would have thought she was a princess."

"I should like to see her," said Hugo, thoughtfully.

"Well, you must just go and call. And then you can think the matter over and let me know. I'm
in no hurry for a decision."

"You are very good, Aunt Margaret."

"No. I am only endeavouring to be just. I should like to see you prosperous and happy. And,
while you are here, you will oblige me by considering yourself the master of the house, Hugo.
Give your own orders, and invite your own friends."

Hugo murmured some slight objection.

"It will not affect my comfort in the least. I kept some of the horses, and one or two vehicles
that I thought you would like. Use them all. You will not expect to see very much of me; I
seldom come downstairs, so the house will be free for you and your friends. When you have decided
what you mean to do, let me know."

Hugo thanked her and retired. He did not see her again until the following evening, when she
met him with a question.

"Have you seen Miss Murray yet?"

"Yes," said Hugo, lowering his eyes.

"And have you come to any decision?"

"Yes."

"I should like to know what it is," said Mrs. Luttrell.

Her hands, which were crossed before her on her knee, trembled a little as she said the words.

Hugo hesitated for a moment.

"I have made my decision," he said at last, in a firm voice, "and it is one that I know I shall
never have cause to repent. Aunt Margaret, I accept your kind--your generous--offer, and I
will be to you as a son."

He had prepared his little speech so carefully that it scarcely sounded artificial when it
issued from those curved, beautiful lips, and was emphasised by the liquid softness of his
Southern eyes.

CHAPTER XIX.

A LOST LETTER.

Hugo's visit to the Herons was paid rather late in the afternoon, and he, therefore, had the
full benefit of the whole family party, as each member of it dropped in to tea. Mrs. Heron's
old habits still re-asserted themselves, in spite of the slight check imposed on her by the
remembrance that the house belonged to Elizabeth, that the many new luxuries and comforts,
including freedom from debt, had come from Elizabeth's purse, and that Elizabeth, although
she chose to abdicate her power, was really the sovereign of Strathleckie. But Elizabeth arrogated
so little to herself, and was so wonderfully content to be second in the house, that Mrs. Heron
was apt to forget the facts of the case, and to act as if she were mistress as much as she
had ever been in the untidy dwelling in Gower-street.

As regarded the matter of tidiness, Elizabeth had made reforms. There were now many more servants
than there had been in Gower-street, and the drawing-room could not present quite the same
look of chaos as had formerly prevailed there. But Elizabeth knew the ways of the household
too well to expect that Mr. Heron's paint-brushes, Mrs. Heron's novels, and the children's
toys would not be found in every quarter of the house; it was as much as she could do to select
rooms that were intended to fill the purposes of studio, boudoir, and nursery; she could not
make her relations confine themselves and their occupations to their respective apartments.

She had had a great struggle with her uncle before the present state of affairs came about.
He had roused himself sufficiently to protest against making use of her money and not giving
her, as he said, her proper position; but Elizabeth's determined will overcame all his objections.
"I never wanted this money," she said to him; "I think it a burden. The only way in which I
can enjoy it is by making life a little easier to other people. And you have the first claim--you
and my cousins; because you took me in and were good to me when I was a little, friendless
orphan of twelve years old. So, now that I have the chance, you must come and stay with me
in my house and keep me from feeling lonely, and then I shall be able to think that my wealth
is doing good to somebody beside myself. You make me feel as if I were a stranger, and not
one of yourselves, when you object to my doing things for you. Would you mind taking gifts
from Kitty? And am I so much less dear to you than Kitty? You used to tell me that I was like
a daughter to you. Let me be your daughter still."

Mr. Heron found it difficult to make protests in the face of these arguments; and Mrs. Heron
slid gracefully into the arrangement without any protest at all. Kitty's objections were easily
overcome; and the children thought it perfectly natural that their cousin should share her
good gifts with them, in the same way that, when she was younger, she divided with them the
toys and sweeties that kind friends bestowed upon her.

Therefore, when Hugo called at Strathleckie, he was struck with the fact that it was Mrs. Heron,
and not Elizabeth, who acted as his hostess. It needed all his knowledge of the circumstances
and history of the family to convince himself that the house did not belong to Alfred Heron,
the artist, and that the stately girl in a plain, black dress, who poured out the tea, was
the real mistress of the house. She acted very much as though she were a dependent, or at most
an elder daughter, in the same position as little Kitty, who assumed no airs of authority over
anybody or anything.

Hugo admired Elizabeth, as he admired beautiful women everywhere; but he was not interested
in her. Mentally he called her fool for not adopting her right station and spending her money
in her own way. She was too grave for him. He was more at his ease with Kitty.

Rupert Vivian's message--if it could be called a message--was given lightly and carelessly
enough, but Hugo had the satisfaction of seeing the colour flash all over Miss Heron's little
mignonne face as he listened to Mrs. Heron's languid reply.

"Dear me! and is that old relative in Wales really dying? Mr. Vivian has always made periodical
excursions into Wales ever since I knew him. Well, I wondered why he did not write to say that
he was coming. It was an understood thing that he should stay with us as soon as we returned
from Italy, and I was surprised to hear nothing from him. Were not you, Kitty?"

"No, I was not at all surprised," said Kitty, rather sharply.

"I had a commission to execute for my friend," said Hugo, turning a little towards her. "Mr.
Vivian asked me to take charge of a parcel, and to place it in your own hands; he was afraid
that it would be broken if it went by post. He told me that it was a little birthday remembrance."

He laid the parcel on a table beside the girl. He noticed that her colour varied, but that
she did not speak. Mrs. Heron's voice filled the pause.

"How kind of you to bring it, Mr. Luttrell! Mr. Vivian always remembers our birthdays; especially
Kitty's. Does he not, Kitty?"

"Not mine especially," said Kitty, frowning. She looked at the box as if she did not care to
open it.

"Do let us see what it is," pursued Mrs. Heron. "Mr. Vivian has such exquisite taste! Shall
we open the box, Kitty?"

"If you like," returned Kitty. "Here is a pair of scissors."

"Oh, we could not think of opening your box for you; open it yourself, dear. Make haste; we
are all quite curious, are we not, Mr. Luttrell?"

Mr. Luttrell smiled a little, and toyed with his tea-spoon; his eyes were fixed questioningly
on Kitty's mutinous face, with its down-dropped, curling lashes and pouting rose-leaf lips.
He felt more curiosity respecting the contents of that little box than he cared to show.

She opened it at last, slowly and reluctantly, as it seemed to him, and took out of a nest
of pink cotton-wool a string of filagree silver beads. They were very delicately worked, and
there was some ground for Vivian's fear that they might get injured in the post, for their
beauty was very great. Mrs. Heron went into ecstasies over the gift. It was accompanied merely
by a card, on which a few words were written: "For Miss Heron's birthday, with compliments
and good wishes from Rupert Vivian." Kitty read the inscription; her lip curled, but she still
kept silence. Hugo thought that her eye rested with some complacency upon the silver beads;
but she did not express a tithe of the pleasure and surprise which flowed so readily from Mrs.
Heron's fluent tongue.

"Don't you like them, Kitty?" asked an inconvenient younger brother who had entered the room.

"They are very pretty," said Kitty.

"Not so pretty as the ornament he sent you last year," said Harry. "But it's very jolly of
him to send such nice things every birthday, ain't it?"

"Yes, he is very kind," Kitty answered, with a shy sort of stiffness, which seemed to show
that she could well dispense with his kindness. Hugo laughed to himself, and pictured Vivian's
discomfiture if he had seen the reception of his present. He changed the subject.

"Have you been long in Scotland, Miss Murray?"

"For a fortnight only. We came rather suddenly, hearing that the tenant had left this house.
We expected him to stay for some time longer."

"It is fortunate for us that Strathleckie happened to fall vacant," said Hugo, gravely.

"Do you know, Betty," said one of the boys at that moment, "that Mr. Stretton says he has been
in Scotland before, and knows this part of the country very well?"

"Yes, he told me so."

"Mr. Stretton is our tutor," said Harry, kindly explaining his remark to the visitor. "He only
came yesterday morning. He had a holiday when we came here; and so had we."

"I presume that you like holidays," said Hugo, caressing the silky moustache that was just
covering his upper lip, and smiling at the child, with a notion that he was making himself
pleasant to the ladies of the party by doing so.

"I liked holidays before Mr. Stretton came to us," said Harry. "But I don't mind lessons half
so much now. He teaches in such a jolly sort of way."

"Mr. Stretton is a favourite," remarked Hugo, looking at the mother.

"Such a clever man!" sighed Mrs. Heron. "So kind to the children! We met him in Italy."

"I think I saw him at the station yesterday. He has grey hair?"

"Yes, but he's quite young," interposed Harry, indignantly. "He isn't thirty; I asked him.
He had a brain fever, and it turned his hair grey; he told me so."

"It has a very striking effect," said Mrs. Heron, languidly. "He has a fine face--my husband
says a beautiful face--and framed in that grey hair----I wish you could see him, Mr. Luttrell,
but he is so shy that it seems impossible to drag him out of his own particular den."

"So very shy, is he?" thought Hugo to himself. "I wonder where I have seen him. I am sure I
have seen him before, and I am sure that he knew me. Well, I must wait. I suppose I shall meet
him again in the course of time."

He took his leave, remembering that he had already out-stayed the conventional limits of a
call; and he was pleased when Mrs. Heron showed some warmth of interest in his future movements,
and expressed a wish to see him again very soon. Her words showed either ignorance or languid
neglect of the usages of society, but they did not offend him. He wanted to come again. He
wanted to see more of Kitty.

He had ridden from Strathleckie to Netherglen, and he paced his horse slowly along the solitary
road which he had to traverse on his way homewards. The beautiful autumn tints and the golden
haze that filled the air had no attractions for him. But it was pleasant to him to be away
from Mrs. Luttrell; and he wanted a little space of time in which to meditate upon his future
course of action. He had seen the woman whom his aunt wished him to marry. Well, she was handsome
enough; she was rich; she would look well at the head of his table, ruling over his household,
managing his affairs and her own. But he would rather that it had been Kitty.

At this point he brought his horse to a sudden standstill. Before him, leaning over a gate
with his back to the road, he saw a man whom he recognised at once. It was Mr. Stretton, the
tutor. He had taken off his hat, and his grey hair looked very remarkable upon his youthful
figure. Hugo walked his horse slowly forward, but the beat of the animal's feet on the hard
road aroused the tutor from his reverie. He glanced round, saw Hugo approaching, and then,
without haste, but without hesitation, quietly opened the gate, and made his way into the field.

Hugo stopped again, and watched him as he crossed the field. He was very curious concerning
this stranger. He felt as if he ought to recognise him, and he could not imagine why.

Mr. Stretton was almost out of sight, and Hugo was just turning away, when his eye fell upon
a piece of white paper on the ground beside the gate. It looked like a letter. Had the tutor
dropped it as he loitered in the road? Hugo was off his horse instantly, and had the paper
in his hand. It was a letter written on thin, foreign paper, in a small, neat, foreign hand;
it was addressed to Mr. John Stretton, and it was written in Italian.

To Hugo, Italian was as familiar as English, and a momentary glance showed him that this letter
contained information that might be valuable to him. He could not read it on the road; the
owner of the letter might discover his loss and turn back at any moment to look for it. He
put it carefully into his pocket, mounted his horse again, and made the best of his way to
Netherglen.

He was so late in arriving that he had little time to devote to the letter before dinner. But
when Mrs. Luttrell had kissed him and said good-night, when he, with filial courtesy, had conducted
her to the door of her bed-room, and taken his final leave of her and of Angela on the landing,
then he made his way to the library, rang for more lights, more coal, spirits and hot water,
and prepared to devote a little time to the deciphering of the letter which Mr. John Stretton
had been careless enough to lose.

