"Once, on coming home, I heard the bell toll, and I learned that it was for the funeral of
one of my companions with whom I had been accustomed to play, and with whom I had grown up.
I did not know that he had been sick, but he had dropped into eternity; and the ringing, swinging,
booming of that bell, if it had been the sound of an angel trumpet of the last day, would not
have seemed to me more awful.  I went into an ecstasy of anguish.  At intervals, for days and
weeks, I cried and prayed.  There was scarcely a retired place in the garden, in the woodhouse,
in the carriage-house, or in the barn that was not a scene of my crying and praying.  It was
piteous that I should be in such a state of mind, and that there should be nobody to help me
and lead me out into the light.  I do not recollect that to that day one word had been said
to me, or one syllable had been uttered in the pulpit, that lead me to think there was any
mercy in the heart of God for a sinner like me.  For a sinner that had repented it was thought
there was pardon; but how to repent was the very thing I did not know.  A converted sinner
might be saved, but for a poor, miserable, faulty boy, that pouted, and got mad at his brothers
and sisters, and did a great many naughty things, there was no salvation so far as I had learned.
My innumerable shortcomings and misdemeanors were to my mind so many pimples that marked my
terrible depravity; and I never had the remotest idea of God except that he was a sovereign
who sat with a sceptre in his hand and had his eye on me, and said: 'I see you, and I am after
you.'  So I used to live in perpetual fear and dread, and often I wished myself dead.  I tried
to submit and lay down the weapons of my rebellion, I tried to surrender everything; but it
did not seem to do any good, and I thought it was because I did not do it right.  I tried to
consecrate myself to God, but all to no purpose.  I did everything, so far as I could, that
others did who professed to be Christians, but I did not feel any better.  I passed through
two or three revivals.  I remember, when Mr. Nettleton was preaching in Litchfield, going to
carry a note to him from father; and for a sensitive, bashful boy like me it was a severe ordeal.
I went to the room where he was speaking, with the note in my trembling hand, and had to lay
it on the desk beside him.  Before I got halfway across the floor I was dazed and everything
seemed to swim around me, but I made out to get the note to him, and he said: 'That's enough;
go away, boy,' and I sort of backed and stumbled toward the door (I was always stumbling and
blundering in company) and sat down.  He was preaching in those whispered tones which always
seem louder than thunder to the conscience, although they are only whispers in the ear.  He
had not uttered more than three sentences before my feelings were excited, and the more I listened
the more awful I felt; and I said to myself: 'I will stay to the inquiry meeting.'  I heard
Mr. Nettleton talking about souls writhing under conviction, and I thought my soul was writhing
under conviction.  I had heard father say that after a person had writhed under conviction
a week or two they began to come out, and I said: 'Perhaps I will get out'; and that thought
produced in me a sort of half-exhilaration of joy.  I stayed to the inquiry meeting, felt better,
and trotted home with the hope that I was on the way toward conversion.  I went through this
revival with that hope strengthened; but it did not last long."

