"But, to speak frankly, my dear girl, there is something lacking. Oh, the idea, the motif--that----"
he held up a hand. "That is as intact as when you read me the draft. The central theme, the
approach, the grouping of the characters, the dialogue--all good--all good. The thing that
is lacking I find very hard to define. But the mood of the story, shall we say?--the mood of
the story is----" he stopped, frowning in perplexity, hesitating. The great master of words
for once found himself at a loss for expression. "The mood is somehow truculent, when it should
be as suave, as quiet, as the very river you describe. Don't you see? Can't you understand
what I mean? In this 'Patroclus' the atmosphere, the little, delicate, subtle sentiment, is
everything--everything. What was the mere story? Nothing without the proper treatment. And
it was just in this fine, intimate relationship between theme and treatment that the success
of the book was to be looked for. I thought I could be sure of you there. I thought that you
of all people could work out that motif adequately. But"--he waved a hand over the manuscript
that lay at her elbow--"this--it is not the thing. This is a poor criticism, you will say,
merely a marshaling of empty phrases, abstractions. Well, that may be; I repeat, it is very
hard for me to define just what there is of failure in your 'Patroclus.' But it is empty, dry,
hard, barren. Am I cruel to speak so frankly? If I were less frank, my dear girl, I would be
less just, less kind. You have told merely the story, have narrated episodes in their sequence
of time, and where the episodes have stopped there you have ended the book. The whole animus
that should have put the life into it is gone, or, if it is not gone, it is so perverted that
it is incorrigible. To my mind the book is a failure."

Rosella did not answer when Trevor ceased speaking, and there was a long silence. Trevor looked
at her anxiously. He had hated to hurt her. Rosella gazed vaguely at the fire. Then at last
the tears filled her eyes.

"I am sorry, very, very sorry," said Trevor, kindly. "But to have told you anything but the
truth would have done you a wrong--and, then, no earnest work is altogether wasted. Even though
'Patroclus' is--not what we expected of it, your effort over it will help you in something
else. You did work hard at it. I saw that. You must have put your whole soul into it."

"That," said Rosella, speaking half to herself--"that was just the trouble."

But Trevor did not understand.

HANTU

BY

HENRY MILNER RIDEOUT

Reprinted from The Atlantic Monthly of May, 1906 by permission

THE SCHOONER Fulmar lay in a cove on the coast of Banda. Her sails, half hoisted, dripped still
from an equatorial shower, but, aloft, were already steaming in the afternoon glare. Dr. Forsythe,
captain and owner, lay curled round his teacup on the cabin roof, watching the horizon thoughtfully,
with eyes like points of glass set in the puckered bronze of his face. The "Seventh Officer,"
his only white companion, watched him respectfully. All the Malays were asleep, stretched prone
or supine under the forward awning. Only Wing Kat stirred in the smother of his galley below,
rattling tin dishes, and repeating, in endless falsetto sing-song, the Hankow ditty which begins,--

    "'Yaou-yaou!' remarked the grasshoppers."

Ashore, the coolies on the nutmeg plantations had already brought out their mace to dry, and
the baskets lay in vermilion patches on the sun-smitten green, like gouts of arterial blood.
White vapors round the mountain peaks rose tortuously toward the blue; while seaward, rain
still filled the air as with black sand drifting down aslant, through gaps in which we could
descry far off a steel-bright strip of fair weather that joined sea and sky, cutting under
a fairy island so that it seemed suspended in the air.

"That's a pretty bit of land," said the doctor lazily. "'Jam medio apparet fluctu nemorosa
Zacynthos'. It might be, eh?--Humph!--Virgil and Shakespeare are the only ones who sometimes
make poetry endurable. All the others are just little swollen Egos."

This was an unusual excursion, and he quickly returned to practical matters.

"There's a better anchorage over there," he drawled, waving the milk-tin toward Zacynthos.
"And less danger of our being caught than here. But no use; we've got to humor the crew, of
course. When they say 'pulo burrantu,' that settles it. Haunted islands--ghosts--fatal to discipline.
I used to have cruises spoiled by that sort of thing. We must stay here and chance being found."

He shot a stream of Java sugar into the tea, and, staring at the sleepers, rubbed his shaven
head thoughtfully.

"Oh, yes, 'superstition,' all very easy to say," he muttered, half to himself. "But who knows,
eh? Must be something in it, at times."

His mood this afternoon was new and surprising. Nor was it likely to occur often in such a
man. He had brought the Fulmar round the south of Celebes, making for Ceram; but as the Dutch
had forbidden him to travel in the interior, saying that the natives were too dangerous just
then; and as Sidin, the mate, had sighted the Dutch tricolor flying above drab hulls that came
nosing southward from Amboina way, we had dodged behind the Bandas till nightfall. The crew
laughed at the babi blanda--Dutch pigs; but every man of them would have fled ashore had they
known that among the hampers and bundled spears in our hold lay the dried head of a little
girl, a human sacrifice from Engano. If we got into Ceram (and got out again), the doctor would
reduce the whole affair to a few tables of anthropological measurements, a few more hampers
of birds, beasts, and native rubbish in the hold, and a score of paragraphs couched in the
evaporated, millimetric terms of science. There would be a few duplicates for Raffles, some
tin-lined cases, including the clotted head of the little girl, for the British Museum; the
total upshot would attract much less public notice than the invention of a new "part" for a
motor car; and the august structure of science, like a coral tree, would increase by another
atom. In the meantime, we lay anchored, avoiding ironclads and ghosts.

Dinner we ate below, with seaward port-holes blinded, and sweat dripping from our chins. Then
we lay on the cabin roof again, in breech-clouts, waiting for a breeze, and showing no light
except the red coals of two Burmah cheroots.

For long spaces we said nothing. Trilling of crickets ashore, sleepy cooing of nutmeg-pigeons,
chatter of monkeys, hiccough of tree lizards, were as nothing in the immense, starlit silence
of the night, heavily sweet with cassia and mace. Forward, the Malays murmured now and then,
in sentences of monotonous cadence.

"No, you can't blame them," said the captain abruptly, with decision. "Considering the unholy
strangeness of the world we live in----" He puffed twice, the palm of his hand glowing. "Things
you can't explain," he continued vaguely. "Now this--I thought of it today, speaking of hantu.
Perhaps you can explain it, being a youngster without theories. The point is, of what follows,
how much, if any, was a dream? Where were the partition lines between sleep and waking,--between
what we call Certainty, and--the other thing? Or else, by a freak of nature, might a man live
so long--Nonsense!--Never mind; here are the facts."

       *       *       *       *       *

Eleven years ago, I had the Fulmar a ten months' cruise out of Singapore, and was finally coming
down along Celebes, intending to go over to Batavia. We anchored on just such a day as this
has been, off a little old river-mouth, so badly silted that she had to lie well out. A chief
in a campong half a day inland had promised to send some specimens down that evening,--armor,
harps, stone Priapuses, and birds of paradise. The men were to come overland, and would have
no boats. So I went ashore with three or four Malays, and the Old Boy's time we had poking
in and out over the silt to find fairway, even for the gig. At last we could make round toward
a little clearing in the bamboos, with a big canary tree in the middle. All was going well,
when suddenly the mate grunted, pointing dead ahead. That man Sidin has the most magnificent
eyes: we were steering straight into a dazzling glare. I couldn't see anything, neither could
the crew, for some time.

"Tuggur!" cried the mate. He was getting nervous. Then all of a sudden--"Brenti!"

The crew stopped like a shot. Then they saw, too, and began to back water and turn, all pulling
different ways and yelling: "Prau hantu!... sampar! ...Sakit lepra! Kolera!... hantu!"

As we swung, I saw what it was,--a little carved prau like a child's toy boat, perhaps four
feet long, with red fiber sails and red and gilt flags from stem to stern. It was rocking there
in our swell, innocently, but the crew were pulling for the schooner like crazy men.

I was griffin enough at the time, but I knew what it meant, of course,--it was an enchanted
boat, that the priests in some village--perhaps clear over in New Guinea--had charmed the cholera
or the plague on board of. Same idea as the Hebrew scapegoat.

"Brenti!" I shouted. The Malays stopped rowing, but let her run. Nothing would have tempted
them within oar's-length of that prau.

"See here, Sidin," I protested, "I go ashore to meet the kapala's men."

"We do not go," the fellow said. "If you go, Tuan, you die: the priest has laid the cholera
on board that prau. It has come to this shore. Do not go, Tuan."

"She hasn't touched the land yet," I said.

This seemed to have effect.

"Row me round to that point and land me," I ordered. "Hantu does not come to white men. You
go out to the ship; when I have met the soldier-messengers, row back, and take me on board
with the gifts."

The mate persuaded them, and they landed me on the point, half a mile away, with a box of cheroots,
and a roll of matting to take my nap on. I walked round to the clearing, and spread my mat
under the canary tree, close to the shore. All that blessed afternoon I waited, and smoked,
and killed a snake, and made notes in a pocket Virgil, and slept, and smoked again; but no
sign of the bearers from the campong. I made signals to the schooner,--she was too far out
to hail,--but the crew took no notice. It was plain they meant to wait and see whether the
hantu prau went out with the ebb or not; and as it was then flood, and dusk, they couldn't
see before morning. So I picked some bananas and chicos, and made a dinner of them; then I
lighted a fire under the tree, to smoke and read Virgil by,--in fact, spent the evening over
my notes. That editor was a pukkah ass! It must have been pretty late before I stretched out
on my matting.

I was a long time going to sleep,--if I went to sleep at all. I lay and watched the firelight
and shadows in the lianas, the bats fluttering in and out across my patch of stars, and an
ape that stole down from time to time and peered at me, sticking his blue face out from among
the creepers. At one time a shower fell in the clearing, but only pattered on my ceiling of
broad leaves.

