THACKERAY'S young lady, who abused a gentleman for associating with low, radical literary friends,
must have had about as elevated an opinion of literature as an Irishman I lately heard of had
of the medical profession, as represented by its non-commissioned officers.

My friend BOB handed his man-servant some books, to return to the Franklin Library. Noticing,
a few minutes afterwards, while passing through the hall, that he was busy carefully wrapping
them up in newspaper, he asked him what he was doing that for.

'Och, shure, Mister ----, I'm afraid, if they say me carr'ing books rouhnd undher me ahrm,
they'll be afther tayking me for a maydical student!'

       *       *       *       *       *

The very remarkable and enthusiastic welcome which has been extended to our proposal to establish
the CONTINENTAL as an independent magazine, calls for the warmest gratitude from us, and at
the same time induces us to lay stress upon the fact that our pages are open to contributions
of a very varied character; the only condition being that they shall be written by friends
of the Union. While holding firmly to our own views as set forth under the 'Editorial' heading,
we by no means profess to endorse those of our contributors, leaving the reader to make his
own comments on these. In a word, we shall adopt such elements of independent action as have
been hitherto characteristic of the newspaper press, but which we judge to be quite as suitable
to a monthly magazine. We offer a fair field and all favors to all comers, avoiding all petty
jealousies and exclusiveness. Will our readers please to bear this in mind in reading all articles
published in our pages?

We can not conclude without expressing the warmest gratitude to the press and the public for
the comment, commendation and patronage which they have so liberally bestowed upon us. We have
been obliged to print three times the number for which we had anticipated sale, and believe
that no American magazine ever circulated so many copies of a first number. In consequence
of this demand we have been compelled to go to press earlier than was anticipated. Articles
promised for February, by Messrs. BAYARD TAYLOR and CHARLES F. BROWNE, but not yet received,
are necessarily deferred. From the latter gentleman we have a note promising a positive appearance
in March.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KNICKERBOCKER

FOR 1862.

In the beginning of the last year, when its present proprietors assumed control of the Knickerbocker,
they announced their determination to spare no pains to place it in its true position as the
leading literary Monthly in America. When rebellion had raided a successful front, and its
armies threatened the very existence of the Republic, it was impossible to permit a magazine,
which in its circulation reached the best intellects in the land, to remain insensible or indifferent
to the dangers which threatened the Union. The proprietors accordingly gave notice, that it
would present in its pages, forcible expositions with regard to the great question of the times,--how
to preserve the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA in their integrity and unity. How far this pledge
has been redeemed the public must judge. It would, however, be mere affectation to ignore the
seal of approbation which has been placed on these efforts. The proprietors gratefully acknowledge
this, and it has led them to embark in a fresh undertaking, as already announced,--the publication
of the CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, devoted to Literature and National Policy; in which magazine, those
who have sympathized with the political opinions recently set forth in the KNICKERBOCKER, will
find the same views more fully enforced and maintained by the ablest and most energetic minds
in America.

The KNICKERBOCKER, while it will continue firmly pledged to the cause of the Union, will henceforth
be more earnestly devoted to literature, and will leave no effort untried to attain the highest
excellence in those departments of letters which it has adopted as specialties.

The January number commences its thirtieth year. With such antecedents as it possesses, it
seems unnecessary to make any especial pledges as to its future, but it may not be amiss to
say that it will be the aim of its conductors to make it more and more deserving of the liberal
support it has hitherto received. The same eminent writers who have contributed to it during
the past year will continue to enrich its pages, and in addition, contributions will appear
from others of the highest reputation, as well as from many rising authors. While it will,
as heretofore, cultivate the genial and humorous, it will also pay assiduous attention to the
higher departments of art and letters, and give fresh and spirited articles on such biographical,
historical, scientific, and general subjects as are of especial interest to the public.

In the January issue will commence a series of papers by CHARLES GODFREY LELAND, entitled "SUNSHINE
IN LETTERS," which will be found interesting to scholars as well as to the general reader,
and in an early number will appear the first chapters of a NEW and INTERESTING NOVEL, descriptive
of American life and character.

According to the unanimous opinion of the American press, the KNICKERBOCKER has been greatly
improved during the past year, and it is certain that at no period of its long career did it
ever attract more attention or approbation. Confident of their enterprise and ability, the
proprietors are determined that it shall be still more eminent in excellence, containing all
that is best of the old, and being continually enlivened by what is most brilliant of the new.

TERMS.--Three dollars a year, in advance. Two copies for Four Dollars and fifty cents. Three
copies for Six dollars. Subscribers remitting Three Dollars will receive as a premium, (post-paid,)
a copy of Richard B. Kimball's great work, "THE REVELATIONS OF WALL STREET," to be published
by G.P. Putnam, early in February next, (price $1.) Subscribers remitting Four Dollars will
receive the KNICKERBOCKER and the CONTINENTAL MONTHLY for one year. As but one edition of each
number of the Knickerbocker is printed, those desirous of commencing with the volume should
subscribe at once.

[Symbol: Pointing Hand] The publisher, appreciating the importance of literature to the soldier
on duty, will send a copy gratis, during the continuance of the war, to any regiment in active
service, on application being made by its Colonel or Chaplain. Subscriptions will also be received
from those desiring it sent to soldiers in the ranks at half price, but in such cases it must
be mailed from the office of publication.

J.R. GILMORE, 532 Broadway, New York.

C.T. EVANS, General Agent, 533 Broadway, New York.

All communications and contributions, intended for the Editorial department, should be addressed
to CHARLES G. LELAND, Editor of the "Knickerbocker," care of C.T. EVANS, 532 Broadway, New York.

Newspapers copying the above and giving the Magazine monthly notices, will be entitled to an
exchange.

PROSPECTUS

OF

The Continental Monthly.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are periods in the world's history marked by extraordinary and violent crises, sudden
as the breaking forth of & volcano, or the bursting of a storm on the ocean. These crises sweep
away in a moment the landmarks of generations. They call out fresh talent, and give to the
old a new direction. It is then that new ideas are born, new theories developed. Such periods
demand fresh exponents, and new men for expounders.

