The Law of Probabilities.--In examining a writing for comparison with another the expert notes
all peculiarities, which he labels, for distinctive reference, "tricks." When he has recorded
as many as possible he looks for them in the writing which he has to compare. Suppose that
he has taken note of a dozen tricks, and finds them all repeated in the suspected writing.
The law of probabilities points to a common authorship for both writings, for it is asking
too much to expect one to believe that there should exist two different persons, probably strangers,
who possess precisely the same peculiarities in penmanship.

This principle of the law of probabilities is applied in the case of the identification of
persons "wanted" by the police. For example, the official description of an absconding forger
runs as follows:--"He has a habit of rubbing his right thumb against the middle finger as if
turning a ring. He frequently strokes his right eyebrow with right forefinger when engaged
in writing; when perplexed, he bites his lower lip and clenches and unclenches his fingers."

Now there are, probably, thousands of people who do every one of these things singly, but the
chances are millions to one against there being two people who do them all as described in
the official placard. In like manner there may be a multitude of writers who form an f or k
with a peculiar exaggerated buckle. Thousands more may make certain letters in the same way,
but to assume that there are two persons who possess equally the whole twelve characteristics
noted by the expert is to strain coincidence to the breaking-point of absurdity.

Therefore, it follows that it is the weight of cumulative evidence of similarity in the production
of unusual tricks of style that proclaims a common authorship for two apparently different
writings.

It may be, and often is, the case that the peculiarities or tricks in the original have been
imitated in the suspected writing. As the result of his experience in knowing what to look
for in a copied document, the expert is not deceived. However good the copy, there are always
apparent to the trained eye evidences that prove another and stranger hand, plain as the difference
between the firm, clear line of the drawing master and the broken saw-edged effort of the pupil.
Habitual observation trains the eye to an extent that would scarcely be credited unless proved
by experiment. The art of observation cannot be taught; it must be the outcome of practice.
The most the teacher can do is to indicate the lines on which the study should be carried out,
and offer hints and suggestions as to what to look for. The rest is in the hands of the student.

CHAPTER II.

MEASUREMENT AND ITS APPLIANCES.

The appliances necessary for the work of examination are, a good magnifying or reading glass
of the greatest power obtainable, a pair of fine compasses or dividers, a horn or celluloid
protractor for measuring angles of slope, and a clearly marked scale rule. Suitable articles
will generally be found in an ordinary case of mathematical instruments.

