Revolutions go by periods. Are they possibly controlled or influenced in these years by the
stellar affinities of the north pole? Is that capricious functionary leading up to Casseopeia,
in this cycle, or Andromeda, that we find ourselves turning from great Hercules, fiery Bootes,
and even neglecting the shining majesty of belted, sworded Orion, to consider woman? I have
not consulted the astronomers. The stars of the heavens are in their places. Male and female,
the groups come to us in winter and retire in summer: their faint splendors fall down upon
our harvest nights, and then give way to the more august retinue of the wintry solstice. The
boreal pivot, whose journal is the awful, compact blue, may, for aught I know, be hobnobbing
at this moment with the most masculine of starry masculinities. But if it be, it is in little
sympathy with the magnetic pole of human thought, whose fine point turns unwaveringly in these
days of many revolutions to woman as the centre and leader of the grandest of them all.

A great storm overtook an ancient navigator of the Ægean. He called on his gods, he importuned
them, but the waves rolled and raged the more angrily the more he prayed. 'Neptune, wilt thou
not save me?' 'Go below,' was the uncourteous answer, and, as with a great blow struck by the
hand of the busy deity, the vessel was suddenly suspended midway between the surface and the
depths of the waters. What a peaceful spot she had reached! The astonished mariner looked around
him in wonder more than gratitude. 'Good deity,' said he, taking breath, 'I prayed not to be
saved thus from the storm, but in it. Return me to the upper world, I beseech thee, and let
me do my stroke in its battle.'

Storms have swept over the ages as winds over the blue Ægean, and woman, shrinking from their
blasts and the agitations that have followed them, has prayed to her gods, and been suspended
between the depths of man's depravity and the heights of his achievements, around whose wintry
peaks winds of ambition have roared, storms of vaulting self-love have gathered, tempests of
passion have contended in angry and fierce strife. To brighten the heights they assailed each
one, to clear the lofty airs embracing them. They shine now where clouds were wont to hover;
sunshine steeps the rugged declivities where mists of ages hung their impenetrable folds, paths
invite where unknown, forbidding fastnesses repelled even daring feet, and thus the stormy
career of conflict is vindicated in its results. The dove testifies a certain divinity in the
Doing which has produced it.

But that still region where the more timid life has nestled undaring, unadventured, shrinking
from the struggle and the strife above, recoiling from the seething foulness below--what have
we in this dreamland inhabited by woman? And wherefore the earnest turning thitherward, in
our day, of so many brave, so many earnest, so many sad, so many yearning, aspiring eyes? Wherefore
the restlessness, wherefore the groans of imprisonment here, wherefore the passionate longings,
the resolute, deep, inextinguishable purpose of escape? Make way, O propitious gods; I can
no longer be saved from this struggle of life, but through it. This mariner must be brought
to the surface, or the waters will be parted before her by the conquering power in her own
soul, and she will present herself there unaided. But not in the fierce spirit of a combatant,
not as a conqueror--only as one moved by divine purpose to reach and take her place, to touch
and accomplish her work.

What are the qualities of this new soldier in the field of human struggle? Whence comes and
whither goes she?

These inquiries point us to the ideas of the Woman Revolution--its Movements will be deductions
from them.

Man knows neither woman nor her whence or whither. He acknowledges her a Mystery from his earliest
acquaintance with her to the present day. Whatever his conquests over the hidden and the mysterious
elsewhere in nature, here is a mystery that confronts him whenever he turns hither--nay, that
grows by his attempts at mastering it. The permanently mysterious is only that which exceeds
us, and we study this but to learn how widely its embracing horizon can spread as we advance.
Thus the woman of the nineteenth century is an incomparably greater mystery to man than was
her sister of the ninth. Scientific conquests do but touch the periphery of her being; they
explore her nature so far as it is of common quality and powers with the nature of man and
of the feminine animals, and would perhaps do more wisely if they stopped dumb before what
lies beyond and above these levels. For beyond, man reads but to misread--studies but to vex
and confuse himself, and--shall I say it?--learns to sneer at rather than to reverence what
baffles his inquiries. Does this statement seem harsh? Is it doubted? See its truth. The only
science (so called) which undertakes a study of woman does not inspire its student with an
increased respect for her. As a class, medical men, above that of other men, are perhaps less
chivalrous than blacksmiths. Lucky is she and lucky are they if it be not diminished instead.
For, assuming man as the standard, the corporeal functions, which absolutely elevate her in
the scale of development, being added to all that he possesses, and constituting her corporeal
womanhood, are seen by this student only as disabilities from which he is happily exempt (as
if a disability could come into any life but through the door of an ability); and her larger
measure of the divine attributes, faith, hope, and love--love, as compassion and as maternity--are
seen as simple weaknesses to which he is happily superior.

The greatness of man's individuality lies in his power over the external; that of woman's is
interior, central, as the sun to our planets, which roll through common fields of space, breathe
a common ether, share a common light and warmth, but know not that ether, that light, that
warmth, whence theirs flows out to them. Central, potent, commanding, superior to laws which
alternately move and still their currents--nay, being in themselves those very laws--this hidden
power is never touched by them, is shared by them only in fixed measure, beyond which drafts
upon it are protested as inexorably as turn the wheels of fate in producing a midge or a mastodon.

The greater includes the less, said the first Mathematician. It is no more true of the geometer's
space and the philosopher's matter than of the physiologist's functional power. Apply the axiom
to the functional quantity of the feminine and masculine, and it will be seen which includes
which, and why man, in all the pride of his highest achievements, is obliged to confess himself
defeated, when, as an investigator, he addresses himself to the solution of the problem of
womanhood. Her individualizing attributes make in her life a kingdom of her own. Possessing
every function and power which man possesses, either in identity or equivalent--the faculties,
capacities, and functions common to both differing only comparatively in each from their degree
in the other, the masculine being confessedly the lighter side of the balance, when the higher
and finer attributes are in the scale--woman has above them all her own unique life, which
man can learn only as a student and spectator, the depths of which all his penetration does
not enable him to explore, the secrets of which his consciousness can never report. From and
through the powers and attributes which centre herein, come those experiences, perceptions--those
faiths, hopes, trusts, yearnings, aspirations, loves, which ray out to man that purer and divine
light without which he soon stumbles and falls--that warmth without which his life becomes
a wintry waste--that harmony without which he is an instrument played at will by the cunning
fiend of discord and selfishness--that purity without whose sweet, cleansing current flowing
over and around him he is soon mired in the sloughs of appetite, or swamped in the unclean
sinks of sensualism--that steadfast holding to things above, without which he soon drops down
to grovel along the earth--that unwavering faith and that utter trust in good which keeps alive
and warm in the heart of humanity its noblest ideals.

Thus the Cross of the feminine life embodies the idea of the revolution in its favor: revolution,
which, above all its wars, national or civil, its struggles for or against freedom, above all
its discoveries in the world of matter and of force, above all its inventions, its new arts
and its improved old arts, its philanthropies, its religious agitations, is destined to command
for the nineteenth century the respect of the coming ages. Dion's star upon its forehead, already
the dim and distant future diaphaned in its light, comes up to cheer our waiting, wandering eyes.

It is only woman who can state woman. The unknown quantity falls not within the terms of any
equation to which man can reduce her. Master, teacher of all other lessons in nature, here
he must be the taught. Leader of all other movements, here he must be follower. Greater must
not only include, it must conduct less.

Whence?

Out of the peaceful, still waters below: no longer stay possible there. The vis vitæ overruling
the vis inertia, we take up the line of march. Fold the napkin away from your eyes, O daughter
of the ages, and behold, there lies your road--a throng already pressing their way where you
thought you were alone. Upward, as well by the universal as by the special law of the case.
Many a tearful eye turned backward to the land we are leaving--land beloved by woman, though
stained with oppression, darkened by slavery, impoverished by lack of action, dwarfed in its
proportions, devious in many of its loveliest lines--some of its sweetest paths leading those
who set feet of innocent trust in them down to hell at last; beloved despite all, because the
heart of the traveller is tender and loving; cherished, because her repressed soul is timid
and doubting. We have lacked light, freedom, space for action and growth, yet are there pleasant
places there. All these are now before us. Dry your tears, O tender souls, suppress your sighs,
stifle your groans. Let us press forward in courage and hope. Forty years, it may be, in the
wilderness, but deliverance at last. The gentle cloud will be over us by day, the path of duty
will shine as a fire upon us by night.

Farewell, then, Africa, land of despot and victim; farewell, Asia, land of satrap and slave;
farewell, Europe, land of monarch and subject: welcome, broad, varied, exhaustless New World,
spreading inviting fields before longing eyes that falter while they gaze.

Whither?

Two thoughts naturally result from this new attitude: first, to go straight to the kingdom
already laid out and well beaten into paths by man; second, to be so polite when arrived there
as to accept him, his life, power, work, as standards to which it were wisest that we conform
ourselves with all expedient haste, and thus blot out as speedily as may be the woman world--let
its existence be remembered only as an evil escaped, a humiliation left behind forever. Has
not its narrowness shamed us, its poverty of action cramped and starved the capacities we begin
to feel unfolding in us--has not its peace made us seem cowards while we lingered in it, and
will not its imperishable purity bear transplantation, and bloom in perennial beauty on the
wider fields to which we are hastening?

We touch the borders of the promised land. Weary and spirit-sore, less from the travel than
the bitter experiences which prompted it, we yearn for the hospitable welcome due to a stranger,
a helper arrived in due season. We are come, O potentate. Open wide the glad gates that shall
receive us. Is not this the Canaan which we but ask to divide with thee?--a goodly land, and
a prosperous, which it were joyful to go in and possess. But the heathen inhabitant thereof
turns his back upon us, shuts his gates, closes his doors, ascends his throne, takes up his
sceptre, and waving it before our astonished eyes, says: 'This is my own kingdom. I have created
it from a wilderness to suit my own life, not another. It cannot be shared; nobody, not you,
my mother, my wife, sister, daughter--not even you, most beloved, cherished, worshipped woman,
shall divide it with me. No admittance except on business.'

What to do in such an unexpected emergency!--such behavior, with all sorts of personal and
external power to back it, to say nothing of those proverbial fractions of law, nine out of
ten of which instantly convert themselves into an adamantine cement, binding his to him, so
that indeed it were a critical piece of practice to essay their sundering, for Nature is in
the union, and she is high to be overreached, deep to be undermined, strong to be defeated,
compact and wary to be foiled.

Sit down, then, a beggar at the border of man's realm, craving permission to enter and share
it with him? Essay to conquer an entrance? And when once within, whether by courtesy or conquest,
what then? Competition with that stronger physique, that ruggeder life, that loves the wrestle
with external hindrances which I love not, and am inferior for, did I love them? An equal part
in that career with one who is exempt from the offices that absorb the half of my full lifetime,
and require the best powers of every sort that I possess?

Surely, here, with this body and this constitution rivalling that body and that constitution,
I am doomed to an inferiority more slavish and scarcely less painful than that I have left
behind. For identity of career, identity of powers. Nature does nothing inductively; does not
fit the parts of her scheme to each other experimentally; works at the centre, in the sublime
repose of certainty, and lets facts, experiences, possibilities at the circumference take care
of themselves. She has made man to dominate this kingdom which he calls his, else should I
have had my share in it from the first. Wherein she has differed me from him, she has also
differed my real kingdom from his. To stop him, I require as much and no more than man possesses.
What is over in kind would place me in false relations with the objective; what is more in
degree would imperil my subjective peace--what is less would try me by the measure another
is made for, and leave me in the shadow projected by him. Nor would the standards which prevail
here harmonize with my spiritual more happily than the activities with my corporeal nature.
Could I work for outward success only, or chiefly, subordinating aspiration to what stifles
aspiration? Would riches satisfy me? Would actual power over men, ecclesiastical, civil, or
social? Could I live for ambition, and sit down unapproved of my better life to enjoy its achievements?
Would the acquisition of knowledge and its employment as a means of worldly power, distinction,
and advantage satisfy the inner hunger which longs for the truth, the light, the harmony of
highest heavens? In short, would so much of the flesh as I could gratify, so much of the world
as I could conquer, so much devil's service as I could cover up with any patched robe of decency,
drawn tight, stretched to its utmost reach, satisfy me? Truly not. Not here then is Beulah,
and I must journey on.

Again, whither? This time whither my own nature leads. I have learned this by experience, that
leadership for me lies not without, but within myself. So much is gained, and now once more
for movement. Gather up the effects--all that we have brought with us out of the past: it will
find use. For woman has been woman so far as she has been anything, and the aromas of that
high estate have hung and still hang about her. Bear them along. The finest effluence of her
life in the first century of our era, as in this last, was love. Mary then bore the Christ;
other Mary's loved him. Woman was first in his life, and last in it. When the bearded magi
adored, she loved; she was the illustrator of his teachings, the repository of his hopes for
their future realization. Bring all those memories, visions, yearnings, trusts, faiths--dreams
of the good, never yet seen but by the inner sight of the woman-soul,--along, and let us set
out for Beulah. Its blooming fields and fair mountains lie dim but sweet on the distant horizon.
We will go over and possess them--a kingdom of our own. Why have we waited so long in bondage
and darkness? Why submitted to the heaped-up wrongs of the ages? Patience very excellent: once
admit the idea of a scheme, and some parts must necessarily arrive in the afternoon. Development
presupposes the delay or withholding of things not yet developed. By the law of climax, these
are not the unimportant parts. Woman's sovereignty has been long deferred, because of the preparation
necessary for it. A John the Baptist must precede the Christ in the wilderness. Fiends robed
and sceptred, once reigned over fiends clothed in skins and armed with broadsword and battle
axe. To-day a gentleman, or gentlewoman can sit secure on any throne of Christendom. While
we congratulate ourselves, let us not deny that the Tamerlanes, the Alarics, the Napoleons
have had their share in the intermediate work of preparation.

Not always, as it seems to us, do the swiftest and clearest methods find favor with these hard-pressed
worthies, but rather such methods as they can employ; and in time, as we see, the work gets done.

Take our planet in the condition in which its first proprietor found it on his arrival, and
you will see that the improvements would be a heavy item in transactions with a real-estate
broker for it. Liberal governments established--Canton, Paris, London, New York built--grain
fields, mills, patent offices, world's fairs, electric telegraphs, ocean steamers, iron-clads,
Central Park, show a long road travelled, and much rough, terrible, fearful work done by the
way--work which has developed a condition for the exercise of the fine sovereignty of woman's
pure, gentle, loving, harmonious nature--road which leads by divine intention to her empire.
If the hand which has opened it has been red at times, let us remember that no purer color
could have been preserved in the Thermopylæ--if the heart has been hard, that a softer one
would have been surely defeated and we disadvantaged. Well could we afford to abide in the
twilight-land when such struggle was going forward in our behalf, when the sunshine was descending
upon such seedtime of the ages--to whose harvest we are drawing nigh.

The sceptre of Supreme Use on the earth is to the hand that is sovereign for that use. In its
day every other power is subordinate to that, for it is the nature of sovereignty to be unitary,
whether lodged in an idea or a person. It is because of this that personal sovereignty has
been indispensable to human progress. Nothing could reign over the strong, undeveloped, turbulent
brute life of the early and middle ages but the tremendous will and self-love of a man great
according to his time--Charlemagne, Peter of Russia, Henry of Navarre.

And shall we complain that a development is slow which began with a Soudanese, a Papuan, and
gives us now a Ruskin and an Emerson--that a career is tedious which opened, if you please,
on Ararat, and has trailed its waxing splendors up to the Free American States--the libraries,
the art galleries, the penetrating humanities which characterize the nineteenth century? For
one, I cannot. Beulah has stood adjourned from Eden till now--wisely, needfully adjourned;
and woman will enter its boundaries gratefully and gracefully, as a queen waited for and desired:
grateful for the gift to the One who gave it in the Great Distribution--graceful in the reception
of a right from him whose ages of struggle have made smooth her road to it.

What will she be therein? What will her life be? I close my eyes to the Actual around me, and
I see her in that high land whose plains spread above the mountain peaks that surround us here.
I see a creature whom the poets have sung, the artists have painted and chiselled, and the
common heart of mankind has longed for, prayed for, and, in its hours of high communion, has
trusted and believed in with the utter faith of a child in its mother's love. I see a being
whom the pure, divine Imagination, the eye of God dimmed in man, has foreseen.

I see her not a dream--not an airy form haunting the unreal walks of night, to vanish when
cockcrow recalls us to the cares of household life, the fields of labor, the paths of effort.
No, but an enduring, very real, very practical embodiment of the poet's ideal, with new powers
and relations illustrating its harmony in and fitness for the world that is purified and sanctified
by its presence. There to my eye

  'Her shape arises:
  She less guarded than ever, yet more guarded than ever;
  The gross and soiled she moves among do not make her gross and soiled;
  She knows the thoughts as she passes--nothing is concealed from her;
  She is none the less considerate or friendly therefore;
  She is the best beloved--it is without exception--she has no reason to
     fear, and she does not fear;
  Oaths, quarrels, hiccupped songs, proposals, smutty expressions, are idle
     to her as she passes;
  She is silent--she is possessed of herself--they do not offend her;
  She receive them as the laws of nature receives them--she is strong;
  She, too, is a law of nature--there is no law stronger than she is.'

I look beneath, the ethereal drapery of qualities in which the prophetic imagination has clothed
her, and central to them all I find a new phenomenon--the latest of the ages--TRUE WOMANHOOD.
From this proceeds the veiled glory hitherto seen but by poet's eye--not far hence to be felt
and known of all. For it is no longer the vision of a distant and dim land, separated from
this actual present by a fathomless abyss. Out of the yawning chasm that has divided that from
this there rise to-day, clear, shining, visible to open eyes, the everlasting pillars of truth,
which will shortly bridge it and make broad the road thither, so that neither he who walks
straight with exact step between the pales of science, nor he outside wending, heedless, with
wide-wandering eyes and feet who stumbles along, shall miss it.

