If I had to select an author likely to win the long-distance dialogue race of the British Isles
I should, after reading Uncle Lionel (GRANT RICHARDS), unhesitatingly vote for Mr. S.P.B. MAIS.
It is not however so much the verbosity as the gloom of Mr. MAIS'S characters that leaves me
fretful. Nowadays, when a novel begins with a married hero and heroine, we should be sadly
archaic if we expected the course of their conjugal love to run smoothly; but I protest that
Michael and Patricia overdid their quarrels, or, at any rate, that we are told too many details
about them. And when these people were nasty to each other they could be very horrid. All which
would not trouble me half so much if I were not sure that Mr. MAIS, in his desire to he forceful
and modern, is inflicting a quite unnecessary handicap upon himself. At present he is in peril
of wrecking his craft upon some dangerous rocks which (though I know it's not the right name
for rocks) I will call "The Doldrums." My advice to him is to cheer up. And the sooner the
better, for all of us.

       *       *       *       *       *

There be novelists so fertile in literary resource or so catholic in their choice of subject
that the reader is never sure, when he picks up their latest masterpiece, whether he is to
have a comedy of manners, a proletarian tragedy, a tale of Court intrigue or a satire on the
follies of the age. To the steady-going devotee of fiction--the reader on the Clapham omnibus--this
versatility is a source of annoyance rather than of attraction, and I accordingly take pleasure
in stating that by those who like a light narrative, in which mystery and romance are pleasingly
blended, the author of The Pointing Man can be relied upon to rill the bill every time. Conformity
to type is a strong point with this author as far as the mystery and romance are concerned,
but within those limits he (or she) provides an admirable range of scene, character and plot.
In The Further Side of the Door (HUTCHINSON), the once handsome and popular hero emerges from
a war-hospital badly disfigured and is promptly jilted by his fiancée and avoided, or so he
thinks, by his acquaintances. Disgusted he buries himself in an old haunted house in the wilds
of Ireland and abandons himself to the practice of magic. The result is highly successful,
for he raises, not a spirit indeed, but something much more desirable to a lonely young man
who has been contemplating suicide. So much for the romance. The mystery is provided by a villain,
an enterprising young married woman, and the sinister denizens of a creepy boarding-house.
I heartily recommend Punch readers who like a mystery to buy the book and find out what happens.

       *       *       *       *       *

The publishers of Sir Limpidus (COLLINS) call it, in large print, a "new and amusing novel,"
but I am not confident about your subscription to the latter part of that statement; for Mr.
MARMADUKE PICKTHALL'S irony is either so subtle or so heavy (I cannot be positive which) that
one may well imagine a not too dull-witted reader going from end to end without discovering
the hidden intent. The subject of the tale, which has no special plot, is a numbskull landowner,
Sir Limpidus, son of Sir Busticus, lord of Clearfount Abbey, and type (according to Mr. PICKTHALL)
of the landowning class that he evidently considers ripe for abolition. As propaganda to that
end he conducts his hero through the usual career of the pre-war aristocrat, sending him to
public school and Varsity (those sufficiently broad targets), giving him a marriage, strictly
de convenance, with the daughter of a peer, and finishing him off as a member of the Government,
alarmed at Socialist hecklers and welcoming the War as likely to give a new direction to forces
that threaten to become too strong for his well-meaning incompetence.