Gustavus now devoted himself to the task of fighting Norby. The pirate had given the king of
Denmark a written promise that he would do no injury to Sweden, but it was very soon apparent
that this promise was not likely to be kept. By the end of January Norby's acts so far aroused
suspicion that Gustavus ordered spies to enter Bleking and discover Norby's plans. No very
definite information, however, was obtained, probably for the reason that Norby did not know
his plans himself. He was waiting for intelligence from Christiern. Late in March Gustavus
fancied the pirate was preparing to depart for Norway. A few days afterwards, Brask wrote the
monarch: "A report is spread that Norby has seized some seven or eight small craft and two
large ships. I do not comprehend his purpose. Merchants just arrived from Denmark add that
the Germans have handed Gotland over to the Danes, though on the other hand it is declared
that Lubeck has sent a strong force of men and ammunition to the isle." The day following the
writing of this letter, Gustavus despatched a note to Finland, with a warning to beware of
Norby, for the news had reached him secretly that the pirate was about to make an incursion
into Finland. This was followed, after a week's interval, by another letter announcing that
Norby's fleet was lying at anchor, all ready to set sail. The monarch's apprehensions proved
to be unfounded. Norby had important business nearer home. Christiern had not wintered in Norway,
as some persons had supposed he would, but had continued his efforts to raise a force in Holland.
His efforts had been attended with some measure of success, and early in May the Swedish Cabinet
had word that Christiern had despatched a force of seven or eight thousand men under Gustaf
Trolle to make an attack on Denmark. While this fleet was believed to be under sail, the tortuous
Norby wrote to Denmark that he was ready to sacrifice his life for Fredrik, and took the opportunity
to charge Gustavus with every sort of crime. The expedition of Christiern appears to have miscarried,
but it so startled Fredrik that he hastened to rid himself of his doubtful ally, Norby. On
pretence of wanting an escort for his daughter, about to sail for Prussia, he asked the pirate
to come to Copenhagen. Norby, willing though he was to sacrifice his life for Fredrik, thought
he scented bait. He could not go, he said, unless he did so in his own vessel attended by seven
hundred of his men, and as an additional guaranty demanded at the outset that his men be paid.
This was a little more than Fredrik could digest. His answer was a letter to Gustavus, declaring
that the pirate was in constant communication with Christiern, and meantime spared no efforts
to stir up discord between Gustavus and himself. He was now preparing with a fleet and body
of seven hundred men to make an incursion into Sweden. Should this occur, Gustavus might rely
upon the aid of Fredrik. For this generous assurance Gustavus in his answer thanked the king,
and promised, in return, that if the pirate should make war on Denmark, Fredrik might count
on him. Despite these mutual promises of fidelity, neither party relied much on the other.
Gustavus, in a letter to his Cabinet in Finland, openly declared his discontent with Fredrik.
However, a common danger kept the allies together, and early in August Gustavus sent a fleet
to Kalmar Sound with orders to make an incursion into Bleking on the north, at the same moment
that Fredrik's fleet was attacking Norby from the south. For some reason Fredrik did not hear
of the Swedish movement till the day was won. On August 24 the Danish and Lubeck fleets were
lying off the coast of Bleking, and, thinking that an attack would soon be made by land, bore
down upon the fleet of Norby. It was an unequal contest, and the allied fleets were victorious.
Seven of Norby's vessels were captured, with four hundred of his men. The conquerors then entered
Bleking, and placed the district once more under Danish rule. Norby himself escaped across
the Baltic Sea to Russia. There he expected to enlist the grand duke in a war against Gustavus.
He found, however, that he had mistaken the opinions of his host. The grand duke threw him
into prison, where he remained two years. At the end of that time he was set at liberty by
request of Charles V., under whose banner he then enlisted. After serving about a year, he
was killed outside the walls of Florence, whither he had been sent with the emperor's forces
to storm the town. "Such was the end," so runs the chronicle, "of one who in his palmy days
had called himself a friend of God and an enemy to every man."[125]

Meantime matters had progressed to some extent with Norway. On the 22d of July, the passport
issued for the refugees having nearly expired without intimation that it would be used, Gustavus
wrote to Fredrik: "Sunnanväder and the other fugitives are still maintained with honor in Norway,
and are continually plotting new revolt. They receive especial favor from the archbishop of
Trondhem, who is said to have appointed one of them his deacon. We have written frequently
about them to the Cabinet of Norway, but the more we write the more honor they receive." This
charge was proved by subsequent events to be a trifle hasty. Scarce had the letter been despatched
when Knut, who was probably the least guilty of the two conspirators, arrived. He came by order
of the archbishop of Trondhem, and along with him came a letter from the archbishop, declaring
that, as the king had promised the fugitives they should be tried by prelates of the Church,
one of them was surrendered. Sunnanväder would likewise have been handed over but that he was
ill. The archbishop closed by urging Gustavus to show mercy. It is to be noted that the king
had never promised that the tribunal should consist of prelates. What he had said was that
they should be tried before a "proper tribunal." Doubtless it was customary that priests should
not be tried by laymen, but the practice was not invariably followed, and the language of the
passport was enough to throw the conspirators on their guard. In a case of conspiracy against
the crown, the Swedish Cabinet would seem to be a proper tribunal, and as a matter of fact
it was before the Cabinet that this case was tried. The Cabinet consisted of the archbishop
of Upsala, three bishops, and eight laymen. Their decree was, in the first place, that the
passport did not protect Knut from trial, and secondly, that he was guilty of conspiracy against
the crown. The decree was dated August 9. On that very day the king of Denmark wrote Gustavus
that he had ordered the archbishop of Trondhem to give no shelter to the traitors, and added:
"We are told that you are ready to promise them a trial before yourself and the Swedish Cabinet,
after which they shall be permitted to go free." Gustavus had never promised that they should
go free, and it was preposterous for anybody to expect it. The only object of the trial was
to give the traitors an opportunity to prove their innocence, and if they failed to do so,
it was only fair that they should suffer. As soon as the decree was signed, Gustavus wrote
the archbishop of Trondhem that Knut had been found guilty, but that his life should be spared
to satisfy the archbishop, at any rate until Gustavus could learn what the archbishop proposed
to do with the other refugees. A similar letter was sent also by the Cabinet, declaring that
"many serious charges were made against Knut, which he was in no way able to disprove." One
of the Cabinet members, who had been asked by the archbishop to intercede for Knut, wrote back:
"His crime is so enormous and so clearly proved by his own handwriting, that there is no hope
for him unless by the grace of God or through your intercession." Even Brask wrote: "He has
won the king's ill-favor in many ways, for which he can offer no defence." Against such a pressure
of public opinion the archbishop of Trondhem dared no longer stand, and on the 22d of September
despatched Sunnanväder to the king, adding, with the mendacity of a child, that he had detained
him in Norway only in order that he might not flee. Gustavus, with grim humor, thanked him
for his solicitude, and begged him now to return all other refugees. Sunnanväder was kept in
jail till the 18th of February, 1527. He was then brought before a tribunal consisting of the
entire Chapter of Upsala, two bishops, and a number of laymen. The king produced some sixty
letters written by the traitor, establishing his conspiracy beyond the shadow of a doubt. He
was condemned at once, and executed the same day outside the Upsala walls. Three days later,
his accomplice, Knut, was similarly put to death in Stockholm. Thus ended a conspiracy which
had cost the monarch infinite annoyance, and which during a period of three years had been
a constant menace to the realm.[126]

What most annoyed the king at this time was the importunate demands of Lubeck. Ever since Gotland,
in the summer of 1525, had fallen into the hands of Lubeck, Gustavus had appreciated the necessity
of keeping the Hanseatic town in check. So early as August of that year the monarch wrote Laurentius
Andreæ: "You have advised us to cling to Lubeck and place no confidence in the Danes, since
they have always played us false. We are not sure, however, that even Lubeck can be trusted,
for we have no certainty what she has in mind, especially as she is sheltering in Gotland that
outspoken traitor, Mehlen." The Swedish envoys, who had arrived in Lubeck too late to meet
the Danes, as had been agreed in Malmö, seem to have reached no terms with Lubeck, and, when
they returned to Sweden in September, Gotland was in Lubeck's hands, and Lubeck had announced
her purpose of defending Mehlen. Her strongest hold on Sweden lay in the fact that Sweden was
still her debtor in a very large amount. Early in 1526 this burden had become so great that
the Cabinet passed an act decreeing that two thirds of all the tithes accrued for the year
just ended should be surrendered by the Church to meet the nation's debt. The announcement
of this levy made Lubeck for the moment more importunate than before. Believing that the money
would soon be pouring in, she kept her envoys constantly dogging the monarch's steps, and in
the month of April Gustavus wrote: "Our creditors will scarce permit us to leave the castle-gate."
They were, therefore, as greatly disappointed as Gustavus when the money did not come. In June
Gustavus wrote that he had got together ten thousand marks,--a mere nothing,--and that Lubeck
had written to demand immediate payment of the whole. "Her envoys have now closed our doors
so tight that it is hardly possible for us to go out." It was clear that some new scheme must
be devised, and on the 23d of June the king applied to certain members of his Cabinet. "We
have now," he wrote, "as frequently before, had letters from Lubeck demanding in curt language
the payment of her debt. You are aware that we have often, especially in Cabinet meetings,
asked you to suggest some mode of meeting this requirement, and have never yet been able to
elicit any tangible response. Indeed, you have not had the matter much at heart, but have rather
left it to be arranged by us. You have, it is true, suggested that the tithes be used, but
we find that, though we much relied upon them, they are but a tittle. Our entire taxes for
last year, including iron, skins, butter, salmon, amounted to somewhat over ten thousand marks.
This sum, which would naturally be used to pay the expenses of our court, has been handed over
to pay the debt. The tithes received, which we were assured would be a considerable sum, are
shown by our books not to have exceeded two thousand marks in all. The treasury balance has
now run so low that we have but a trifle left, and our soldiers, who are now much needed to
keep off Christiern and Norby, must be paid. We therefore beg you take this matter seriously
to heart, and devise some means by which the debt may soon be paid.... It is utterly impossible
from the taxes alone to keep an army and pay this heavy debt, for the taxes are no greater
than they were some years ago, though the expenses are very much increased; and, moreover,
we have no mines to turn to, as our fathers had." This urgent appeal inspired the Cabinet to
act, and at a meeting held in August they provided that a new tax be laid on every subject
in the realm. In the table that accompanied this Act, the amounts to be contributed by the
different provinces were accurately fixed, as well as the amounts to be collected in the towns.
The bishops, too, were called upon to furnish each his quota, based upon an estimate of his
means: the archbishop of Upsala paying four thousand marks, the bishop of Åbo three thousand
marks, Linköping two thousand five hundred marks, Skara and Strengnäs each two thousand marks,
Vesterås one thousand marks, and Vexiö five hundred marks. The amount imposed on Åbo seems
unreasonably large, which is probably to be accounted for by the fact that Åbo was not present
at the meeting. Brask, in writing to Åbo, told the bishop that his quota was three thousand
marks, but did not name to him the individual amounts to be contributed by the other bishops.
Gustavus, in a letter to the members of his Cabinet in Finland, was even more unfair. He told
them that Åbo was to pay three thousand marks, and added that Linköping and Skara were to pay
the same. Brask's letter is particularly important in that it puts the balance of the debt
to Lubeck at forty-five thousand Lubeck marks, equivalent to ninety thousand Swedish marks,
of which amount the archbishop and bishops were expected to raise fifteen thousand marks. Brask,
with his usual shrewdness, urged the king to pay the debt that autumn, and thus get rid of
Lubeck before the winter came. Gustavus doubtless shared with him this view, but there were
several grave difficulties in the way. Early in October the monarch held a conference with
the Lubeck envoys, and found the balance, as they figured it, to be larger than he had supposed.
Moreover, the peasants in the north of Sweden declared they could not spare the funds, and
urged Gustavus to postpone the levy till a more convenient time. So that at the close of 1526
the Lubeck envoys were still clamoring for their pay.[127]

The cramped position in which Gustavus was held by Lubeck made it of great importance that
he should be on amicable terms with other powers. So early as 1523, he had sent ambassadors
to Russia to ratify the treaty made by Sture. They had returned, however, with announcement
that the grand duke's envoys would come to Stockholm and arrange the terms. This promise had
never been fulfilled. As soon, therefore, as opportunity was found, the monarch prepared to
send ambassadors again. The person to whom the matter was intrusted was the monarch's brother-in-law,
Johan von Hoya. In November, 1525, this officer, who had just returned from an expedition to
Lubeck, set sail for Finland, where he already had been granted fiefs, with orders to determine
whether or not it was desirable that the embassy should go. Considerable delay ensued because
Gustavus was in want of funds. He thought that since the expedition would be mainly for the
benefit of Finland, the cost of sending it should be borne by her. It was, therefore, not till
May of 1526, when Russian depredations became unbearable in Finland, that an arrangement could
be made. Envoys then were sent to Moscow, and presented to the grand duke a letter from Gustavus
under date of 20th of May. In this document the monarch stated that his envoys had once before
been sent to Moscow to ratify the treaty made with Sture, but for some reason had never reached
the capital. Since then great injury had been done in Finland by Russian subjects. Gustavus
desired, therefore, to renew the treaty, and begged the grand duke to recompense his subjects,
and also to make known to him in what towns in Russia his subjects would be allowed to trade.
This letter appears to have been some months upon the road, for the grand duke's answer was
not given till the 2d of September. In this answer he declared that the previous embassy of
Gustavus had held a conference with Russian envoys, and by them the treaty made with Sture
had been ratified. Swedish merchants were allowed to trade in all the towns of Russia, and
all wrongs done to Swedish subjects should be punished and the persons injured recompensed.
On the other hand, he should expect Gustavus to punish his own subjects for wrongs which they
had done in Russia, and all buildings by them erected on Russian soil must be torn down. While
the Swedish envoys were returning with this letter, Norby reached the grand duke and complained
that Swedes had injured Russian subjects in Lapland. The grand duke therefore ordered that
Gustavus be notified of the complaint, and asked to punish the offenders if the charge were
true. When the embassy returned to Sweden, and the monarch found they had not yet obtained
the grand duke's seal, he resolved to go to Finland in the spring of 1527 and meet the Russian
emissaries there. This plan, however, was given up for lack of funds, and the Russian emissaries
were asked to meet the king in Stockholm. The offer was accepted, the emissaries came, and
after an elaborate exchange of costly presents, both parties signed a ratification of the treaty
made for seventy years with Sture. The ratification was dated on the 26th of May.[128]

The main reason why Gustavus dreaded a rupture between himself and Lubeck was that it would
cause great injury to his commerce. Immediately after his election in 1523, the monarch in
a moment of enthusiasm had conferred on Lubeck, Dantzic, and their allies a perpetual monopoly
of Swedish trade. In an earlier century, when these so-called Vend Cities controlled the Baltic
trade, Lubeck would have claimed the monopoly even without a grant. But another branch of the
Hanse Towns had ere this grown up in Holland, with a power so formidable that the Vend Cities
dared not assert their claim. So long, however, as the privileges granted Lubeck were unrepealed,
the Dutch Towns were reluctant to incur her enmity by sending ships to Sweden. The result was
that practically all imports came from Lubeck, and when relations between that city and Gustavus
became a trifle strained, great difficulty was experienced in obtaining food. To remedy this
evil, the envoys sent to Lubeck in 1525, finding themselves too late for the congress with
the Danes, entered into negotiations with the Dutch envoys that happened to be there. They
found at once that Holland wished to trade in Sweden, and was ready to do so if the terms could
be arranged. As a provisional measure, the ambassadors on both sides promised, August 17, that
the two nations should remain at peace during the next three years, and before the end of that
time another congress should be held to make a more systematic treaty. It was agreed further
that in the coming autumn a consignment of salt and other wares should be forwarded by the
Dutch to Sweden. Apparently this consignment did not come till the spring of 1526, but both
parties were eager to arrange a treaty, and it was agreed that a congress for this purpose
should be held in Bremen, May 20, 1526. This congress was afterwards postponed, though the
Swedish envoy brought a ratification of the former treaty signed by Gustavus under date of
May 12, 1526, and promised further that salt should be admitted into Sweden free. A similar
ratification was signed by Charles V., Sept. 19, 1526. This accomplished, Holland opened negotiations
with Sweden to the end that all articles of commerce be placed upon the free-list along with
salt; and she requested further that all the Swedish harbors be open to her ships. So ambitious
a proposal terrified Gustavus. He would have been rejoiced to grant it, but he feared by doing
so to irritate Lubeck. It is somewhat amusing to trace the steps by which he convinced himself
that such a course was right. Brask, as usual, was the first to question whether Lubeck would
consent. On the 9th of December, 1526, he wrote: "I advocate the treaty, but I doubt much whether
Lubeck will not raise objections, for she has wished to have the Baltic to herself." A few
days later Gustavus put out a feeler to his Cabinet in the south of Sweden. "So far as we know,"
he wrote with caution, "our relations with Lubeck and the Vend Cities do not forbid this treaty."
By the spring of 1527 he had grown more confident of his position, and wrote as follows: "The
provisional arrangement made with Holland has proved greatly to our advantage. We now desire
to make a perpetual treaty with her before Whitsunday next, and for this purpose recommend
that Olaus Magni be sent at once to Amsterdam." Two weeks after this he added: "The privileges
which the German cities wrung from us in Strengnäs are so grinding that we can no longer adhere
to them in all their points." On the 22d of April the monarch had so far removed his doubts
as to commission Magni to negotiate the treaty, and he intrusted him with a written promise
over the royal signature and seal, conferring on Holland, Brabant, Zealand, and East and West
Friesland the right to enter all the Swedish rivers and harbors, on payment of the customary
duties. It is noticeable that in this document Gustavus did not remit the duties, as had been
desired, nor even promise that salt should be admitted free; and in the letter to his envoy
the diplomatic monarch used these words: "Do not be too liberal, especially in the matter of
duties. If they really insist upon free-trade, you must discreetly avoid promising it, and
suggest that probably the privilege will be granted them as a favor." Brask, who feared lest
these negotiations might cause trouble, hastened to throw a favorable light upon his own position.
"You will remember," he wrote his fellow-counsellors, "that I opposed the grant of these great
privileges to Lubeck, believing them injurious to the welfare of our people." Magni, in conformity
with the king's injunctions, proceeded to the town of Ghent, where he was given an audience
of Margaret, regent of the Netherlands. As soon as the letters of May 12, 1526, and April 18,
1527, were translated for her, she raised a number of objections, chief of which were that
the latter letter did not provide that salt should be admitted free, and did not seem to open
to her vessels all the Swedish ports. To these objections Magni answered that certain harbors
were made ports of entry out of convenience to Gustavus, and as to duties, Magni seems to have
assured her that they would probably be taken off. After more palaver, Margaret signed a document
accepting the offer assumed to have been made by Sweden; namely, that vessels of the emperor
might enter all the rivers and harbors of Sweden, paying only the same duties that were paid
by Swedish subjects, salt, however, to be admitted free. She expressed a hope, moreover, that
other articles might be exempt from duty too. To this document she attached her seal, July
29, 1527.[129]

It is particularly to be noted that Lubeck did not raise her voice against the treaty. A probable
solution is that she wished beyond all else to secure her money, and felt that Sweden would
be more able to meet the debt in case she were allowed to trade with Holland. All through the
winter of 1527 Gustavus struggled to raise funds. Some portions of the country seem to have
responded freely, but in Dalarne and other northern provinces it appeared likely that the levy
would end in actual revolt. In January Gustavus warned the people that all responsibility in
the matter lay with them. If Lubeck made war upon the kingdom, it would be because of their
unwillingness to pay the debt. As a matter of fact, the Dalesmen had much reason for delay.
The monarch, by his ill-judged privileges to Lubeck, had kept the country in a state of famine,
from which it now was just beginning to emerge. Many of the people were utterly devoid of means,
and the new levy seemed like wringing water from a stone. This in the course of time Gustavus
learned, and in March he prudently suggested to his officers that the tax be modified in special
cases. The Dalesmen, however, were not so easily to be appeased. Other causes of complaint
were rife among them, and they formed a compact to the end that no tax should be paid until
these grievances had been redressed. On the 2d of April Gustavus asserted that the Dalesmen
had not contributed a cent. Brask, for reasons that will be manifest later on, was in sympathy
with the people, and declared: "I fear danger, for the Dalesmen are reported to be incensed,
and rightfully incensed, against the king. If it lay with me, I should remit a portion of the
tax rather than give occasion for this revolt." Gustavus, however, was still harassed by Lubeck,
and dared not take this step. As there were several matters to be straightened out in Dalarne,
he summoned a general diet of the realm. The Dalesmen showing opposition, Gustavus urged the
people in the south of Sweden to persuade the people of Dalarne to come. "We should be glad,"
he urged, "if you would write to the people of Dalarne, and ask them to lay their complaints
before the diet to be held in Vesterås. We shall there explain our conduct, and if our people
are not satisfied, shall gladly resign the throne. The German envoys will be present, and the
Dalesmen can then adopt some means to quiet their incessant demands." All efforts to persuade
the Dalesmen failed. They despatched a long list of their grievances to Stockholm, but they
did not attend the diet. When the other delegates came together, Gustavus laid these grievances
before them. The Dalesmen had complained, he said, that they were burdened with heavy taxes.
If they had been more obedient, a smaller army would have been sufficient, and the taxes would
not have been so heavy. He told them, further, that the whole debt occasioned by the war amounted
to about one hundred thousand marks, of which sum a large portion was still unpaid.[130] The
outcome of the matter was that the delegates voted to quell the insurrection in Dalarne, and
if enough money could not now be raised to pay the debt, to levy further taxes. These stringent
measures were not, however, put into effect at once. Gustavus was busy, in the autumn of 1527,
with other things; and furthermore a dispute had arisen between himself and Lubeck as to the
exact total of the debt. The year closed, therefore, with the debt still hanging over Sweden's
head. The Lubeck envoys accepted all the goods and money they could get, the whole amount thus
paid in 1527 being in the neighborhood of 22,800 Swedish marks.[131]

All through this period Gustavus was in constant negotiation with Fredrik. Christiern's efforts
to recover the crown had been brought to a halt by the sudden collapse of Norby, and Fredrik
had assumed in consequence a more aggressive attitude toward Sweden. By the treaty signed at
Malmö each monarch promised to protect the interests which citizens of the other held within
his realm. But the ink was scarcely dry when complaints were heard that Fredrik had failed
to substantiate this clause. The most flagrant breach occurred in the case of property owned
in Denmark by Margaret, sister of the king of Sweden. So great difficulty was experienced by
Margaret in protecting this estate, that early in 1526 the monarch counselled her to sell it.
He wrote also to certain Danish officers, and begged them to defend her rights. These exhortations
proving futile, Margaret sent her agent to the spot to see what he could do. This only irritated
the natives, and they fell upon the agent with their fists. It was reported, too, that the
deed was ordered by an officer of Fredrik. At all events, the agent was given no redress, and
Gustavus, after urging Margaret's husband to appeal to Fredrik, wrote finally to the Danish
king himself. He laid the whole affair before him, and declaring that he had ever upheld the
rights of Danes in Sweden, urged Fredrik to investigate the matter and punish those by whom
the violence had been committed. With this request the Danish monarch promised to comply; and
as we find no further mention of the case, it is probable the quarrel was adjusted and the
rights of Margaret maintained.[132]

Another dispute originating in the Malmö treaty concerned the province of Viken, which lay
along the Swedish frontier in the southeast part of Norway. This province had joined Gustavus
in the war with Christiern, and after the war was over had continued under Swedish rule. In
course of time, however, the inhabitants grew eager to return once more to Norway. With a view
to satisfy their longing, Gustavus allowed them, early in 1526, to be governed by Norwegian
law and custom. Possibly this would have appeased the natives, but Fredrik was desirous for
more. He thought that Viken, being originally a province of Norway, should be ruled by him.
He therefore wrote Gustavus, and begged a conference to settle their respective claims. Gustavus,
defrauded of his rights in Gotland, answered that he would gladly hold a conference to settle
all matters of dispute between them. Fredrik waited nearly six months before making his reply.
He then informed Gustavus that the Danish envoys had appeared in Lubeck at the day fixed for
the conference, but that nothing was accomplished simply because the Swedish envoys did not
come. He therefore urged Gustavus to name a time and place at which the question of Viken should
be settled. The Swedish monarch had learned by sad experience that a conference with Denmark
meant no benefit to him. He answered that his envoys had been sent to Lubeck, as agreed, but
had failed through stress of weather to reach the place of meeting on the day arranged. Gustavus
appears not to have cared particularly to retain the province, though he was not willing to
yield it without obtaining something in return. He saw no reason why Viken should be given
up to Fredrik unless Gotland should be given up to him. In answer, therefore, to repeated solicitations,
he declared his readiness to meet the Danish king half-way; he would treat with him concerning
Viken, but at the same time some definite conclusion must be reached about the isle of Gotland.
When negotiations had reached this point, they were interrupted for the moment by a new dispute.[133]

