The little trunk was soon packed, and one fine July morning the two travellers set off in search
of the beautiful lake, whose name is not to be found in the guide books. They knew it was to
be looked for in a sharp and peculiar dent in the Shawangunk mountain, which dent, so far as
they could judge from the hills near their dwelling on the northern slope of the Highlands,
must be nearly opposite Poughkeepsie. Neither map nor gazetteer could they procure; the neighbors
could give them no information, and they were forced to proceed with only the above-mentioned
meagre stock of knowledge.

The first stage was of five miles, in a carriage to Newburg, where they took the day boat for
Albany. Our novices felt more or less anxiety regarding the fidelity of the porter intrusted
with their two small articles of baggage; but said articles appearing somewhat late, though
still in season, and being duly marked for Poughkeepsie, the first question asked was as to
the existence of such a place as New Paltz Landing, opposite the above-named city, and the
facilities for crossing the river. None of those in authority knew certainly of a ferry, but
supposed it highly probable. The wharf at Poughkeepsie was suggested as a proper place to obtain
information; and, once there, our travellers soon found themselves in the hands of an intelligent
contraband, who promised to place them safely on the desired ferry boat. As they neared the
dock, a great rock, with an upset wagon for foreground, furnished an encouraging picture for
two lone lady tourists. The boat proved neat and comfortable, and here again inquiries were
made. The very polite captain had heard of a lake on the Shawangunk mountain, but knew neither
its name nor exact location. He advised them to have their baggage sent to the little inn at
the landing, where they might dine and await a stage expected to pass in about an hour on its
way to New Paltz, a village nine miles west of the river. At the inn they fancied they must
certainly learn something definite regarding the final object of their undertaking. A large
map of Ulster county hung in the sitting room, and gave promise of some decided information.
Unfortunately, it was not of a recent edition: a nameless lake on the Shawangunk mountain,
about five miles from New Paltz, seemed to be the object of their search; but the landlord,
who had heard of a lake in that direction, could not tell how it was to be reached, or whether
shelter could there be found in any decent tenement; his impression was that there had been
a public house on top of the mountain, but that it had recently been destroyed by fire. Certainties
were evidently still unattainable.

Finally, the stage arrived--a vehicle drawn by two horses, and intended to seat four persons.
In it were already two ladies, with bags and bundles, two trunks, a champagne basket, numberless
packages, and about fifty bottles of soda water, laid in among the straw covering the bottom
of the accommodating conveyance. The driver, a good-natured, intelligent man, gave our travellers
his bench, and arranged a seat for himself and the champagne basket on a sort of shelf overhanging
the tails of the horses. At the top of the first hill is the village of Houstonville, where
they stopped at the post office to leave the mail, and where two ladies appeared as claimants
for seats in the stage. The driver at first demurred; but, finding the ladies persistent, he
drew forth a board, and, fastening it at either end to a perpendicular prop, constructed a
third bench, on which the two new passengers took their places.

The stage was by this time more than well packed; but ere long the process of lightening up
commenced, as first the champagne basket, then packages, bundles, and newspapers, were left
at various dwellings along the roadside. One novelty especially striking was the wayside post
office, consisting of a box on a pole, intended to contain the daily newspaper therein thrust
to await the coming of the owners.

Of course the driver was plied with numerous questions regarding the thus far nameless lake.
He had been up the Shawangunk mountain fishing, but that was years before; there was a lake,
but he had never heard any name given to it; he had understood a house had been built since
his last visit; but he did not know if it was intended to accommodate visitors during the night.
Of one thing, however, he was quite certain, and that was, the impossibility of finding a horse
in New Paltz to take the ladies up that evening. The inns had none to let; there were no livery
stables, and his own pair were too greatly fatigued by their twenty-mile drive to venture up
so steep an ascent; but he thought a conveyance might be found for the following morning. The
views along the road were charming; and the sharp, jagged crest known as Paltz Point, overhung
the well-cultivated rolling valley beneath, giving a fair promise of an extended and characteristic
view.

The inn, to which the travellers were driven, proved very neat and comfortable. It was a new
edifice, with an accommodating landlord and landlady, the latter of which personages seemed
quite mystified by the advent of two lorn ladies in search of an unknown lake. In the entry
hung a new map of Ulster county, on which appeared a lake nestling under the cliffs of Paltz
Point, but still without a name. Paltz Point!--that must be the very jagged pile of rock visible
from the Cornwall hills, and the lake at its foot more than probably the object of the journey.

The landlord was quite positive as to the existence of a house, but doubted its capacity in
regard to sleeping accommodations; he also corroborated the testimony of the driver respecting
the difficulty of obtaining a vehicle, every horse being engaged haying. The ladies announced
that, as the distance was only six miles, it could be walked, in case this difficulty proved
insuperable. An individual at the tea table proposed that the travellers should be taken up
some time in the middle of the night, that the horse might return by six o'clock in the morning;
but this suggestion was unanimously frowned down. The chief reason for requiring a horse and
wagon lay in the little trunk, which, as it contained the painting box of our Elsie, who thought
the lake and vicinity might offer some picturesque studies, could not possibly be left behind.
After tea, a walk was taken, and the vicinage of New Paltz duly inspected. The Wallkill, here
a quiet stream, runs through rich, green meadows, bordered by the noble range of the Catskills
and the singular, broken ridges of the Shawangunk. The sun set clear, casting pale gold streams
of light over the meadows, and leaving a long, lingering, rosy twilight. The young art-student
drank in beauty with every breath. The cows were driven home; the ducks came slowly up out
of the stream, and all the winged creatures went to roost. Night came, and repose was welcome
after the pleasures and fatigues of the day's journey.

At eight the following morning, a steady black pony, with a light open wagon, appeared at the
door; and by ten o'clock the travellers reached the mountain top. Their steed showed marvellous
endurance in the way of slow pacing down steep hills, which they afterward found had been acquired
in leading sad trains of mourners to the modest graveyards, wherein rest the earthly remains
of the peaceful dwellers in this pastoral vale. The first four or five miles of road were excellent,
but the last one or two so rough and stony, that they were quite willing to walk. On top of
the mountain stands a little inn, commanding a magnificent view in several directions. As they
neared the end of their journey, they rejoiced to see a white house gleaming through the trees,
and promising food and shelter. The sound of coming wheels brought out the land-lady, who gave
the travellers a hearty welcome, and assured them of her ability to harbor them for the night.
The end was accomplished--the goal reached! And what a goal! Nowhere among all the beautiful
scenery in the Middle and Eastern States is there a spot more characteristic and interesting
than Paltz Point, and the lake that lies under its shadow--that lake, whose name was a mystery,
even to the inmates of the house built upon its brink. Its waters are clear, and of a deep
green hue; its depth is said to be great, and its rocky shores rise in perpendicular cliffs
of from ten to two hundred feet. The highest point stands three or four hundred feet above
the surface of the water; but in that part the cliffs are no longer perpendicular. The length
of the lake is about a mile, and the width perhaps half that distance. The rocks are gray sandstone
or quartz conglomerate, making the cliffsides, except where covered by black lichens, of a
glittering white. On one side, the rocks rise in steep, precipitous masses, while on the other
they are shattered into every imaginable form. The clefts are deep and narrow, great hemlocks
rise from the bottoms of the fissures, and the vast masses of fallen or split rock lie piled
and cloven, confusedly tossed about, gigantic memorials of the great convulsion that in days
long gone by heaped up the long ridge of the Shawangunk, and shattered its northern dip into
such majestic and fantastic cliffs. The deepest and wildest chasm is filled by the weird, green
lake. Straying along the tops of the precipices bordering the water, our travellers beheld
lovely vistas of the far-away country, north, south, east, or west, stealing in through rocky
or leafy openings. An easy ascent of about half a mile leads to the summit of the Point. Blueberries
were ripe, and beguiled the pair into many a moment's dallying by the wayside. Not until they
reached the very top were they quite sure they had after all found the place they came to seek;
but one view down the jagged line of the Shawangunk, convinced our Elsie that no other spot
could have furnished the sketch seen in the studio, where she had been advised to seek 'the
lake on the Shawangunk mountain.'

The view from Paltz Point is magical. The long line of the Catskills sweeps boldly across the
near northern horizon. Nowhere do those mountains seem so majestic, or their forms so broken
and beautiful; nearer are the Olive mountains, beyond which flows the Esopus. Rondout creek,
the Wallkill, and the Hudson, water the fertile vales lying among the hills. To the south stretches
the line of the Shawangunk toward the Delaware river, and on the extreme southern and southeastern
horizon rise the Highlands, with the river gap, the rifted sides of the Storm King, the Beacons,
the great broad shoulders of Schunemunk;--even the white buildings on the plain at West Point
may be seen glittering in the afternoon sun. A clear atmosphere is needed for the full enjoyment
of the view, as the panorama is so vast that even a slight haze obscures many of the more interesting
distant objects. And what words could describe the jutting headlands--wild, broken lines of
white cliffs stretching to the southward, deep chasms, steep, forest-clad mountains, green
or blue as distance, sunshine, or shadow may decree, and the tranquil green lake, smiling as
a deep, strong and cheerful spirit amid the ruins of a shattered, wasted life? As our travellers
gazed, they thanked God that His world was so beautiful, and wondered if even Aunt Sarah would
not be willing to run the risk of being thought strong minded to see so fair a corner of it.

The moon that night rose late; and the air was chill as the sisters stood on a rock waiting
until its rays should silver the placid waves. Overhead ran a strange, broad, coruscating band
of magnetic light, meteors flashed down the sky, a solitary loon sent a wild, despairing cry
athwart the lake, and for the first time did our travellers feel they were alone, eighteen
hundred feet above the Hudson, far away from other human habitation. A truly feminine shudder
ran through their hearts, as they turned toward the house and betook them to the cells appropriated
to their use. The following day they were driven down the mountain by the owner (not the keeper)
of the little inn beside the lake. He was one of nature's own gentlemen; tall,--six feet, perhaps,--gray
haired, blue eyed, with every feature well cut, and with the most honest expression ever beaming
through a human countenance. The hearts of the sisters warmed toward him, and never were they
more willing to acknowledge the solidarity of the race, the great fact of the brotherhood of
all humanity.

Cornwall once again safely reached, and the outlines of the journey duly sketched, Aunt Sarah's
first question was: 'Well, and what is the name of this famous lake?'

The travellers were forced to confess the ill success of their efforts in discovering the proper
appellation of that exquisite gem, and it was not until many months later that, when visiting
an exhibition of paintings, they found their new friend accurately portrayed under the name
of--Mogunk Lake.

Our first volume having been devoted to the Reason or Theory of Art in general, it is our intention
in the second, Rhyme and Rhythm, to bring these comprehensive thoughts to a focus, and concentrate
their light upon the art of Versification. Indeed, this volume is to be considered as a manual
of poetic Rhythm. The numerous citations given under their appropriate metrical heads are intended
not only to assist the student in the analysis of verse, but to aid him in the choice of forms
in accordance with his subject, in case he should himself wish to create Poems.

By its extrication from the entanglement of quantity and syllabic accent, under which it has
been almost buried, an effort has been made to simplify the study of Rhythm: by tracing its
origin and characteristics, and by the citation of poems in which its power and beauty are
conspicuous, we have endeavored to render the subject one of vivid interest.

CHAPTER FIRST.

RHYTHM.

What is Rhythm? The best definition of this perplexing word has been given by the grand old
Bohemian composer Tomaschek:

     'The order perceptible in a succession of sounds recurring in
     determinate portions of Time, which portions of Time are more
     distinctly marked for the ear through the accentuation of certain
     determinate parts, constitutes Rhythm.

Rhythm has been surrounded with so much mystery, has been the subject of so much learned debate
and research, has called forth so many quartos and folios, that few know what a familiar thing
it is, how closely it everywhere surrounds us, how constantly it beats within us. For the pulsations
of the heart are rhythmical, and the measured throbs of life register in music every moment
of our passing existence on the bosom of Time. And when life manifests itself to the senses
through the medium of time, time being to the ear what space is to the eye, the Order of its
pulsations is Rhythm. Strange relation between our own marvellous being and the march of time,
for its mystic rhythm beats in tune with every feeling that sweeps over the heart, forever
singing its primeval chant at the very core of our existence! The law of Rhythm is the law
of mortal life: the constant recurrence of new effort sinking but to recover itself in accurately
proportioned rest, rising ever again in new exertion, to sink again in ever new repose:

   'And our hearts, though true and brave,
  Still, like muffled drums, are beating
    Funeral marches to the grave.'

This low music of the heart never ceases until stilled by the touch of death, when the spirit,
led by God, enters upon the waveless ocean of an immeasurable eternity, where past and future
meet in the eternal present. Time with its rhythmic measures is then no more. The necessity
of 'effort and rest,' 'exertion and repose,' will exist no longer. What the fuller music of
that higher life is to be, 'it has not yet entered into the heart of man to conceive.' But
if the very imperfection of our being has been rendered so full of charm to us in the order
and proportion with which it records its law, 'effort and repose,' 'life and death'--what may
we not expect when this mortal shall have put on immortality? We should think of this when
that saddest of human sounds, 'it beats no more; it measures time no longer'--knells upon our
ear the silence of the throbbing, passionate heart.

Nor is inanimate nature without the quickening breath of Rhythm. It cadences the dash of the
wave, chimes in the flash of the oar, patters in the drops of rain, whispers in the murmurings
of the forest leaves, leaps in the dash of the torrent, wails through the sighing of the restless
winds, and booms in the claps and crashes of heaven's thunders.

Only through succession do we arrive at the idea of time, and through a continual being and
ceasing to be are its steppings made sensible to us. It is thus literally true, as sung by
the Poet, that 'we take no note of Time but from its loss.' Happy are we if so used that it
may mark our eternal progress.

There is but little mystery in the art of keeping time, since we may at once gather a correct
notion of it from the vibrations of the pulse, or from our manner of walking. If we listen
to the sound of our own step, we find it equal and regular, corresponding with what is termed
common time in music. Probably the time in which we walk is governed by the action of the heart,
and those who step alike have pulses beating in the same time. To walk faster than this gives
the sensation of hurry; to walk slower, that of loitering. The mere recurrence of sounds at
regular intervals by no means constitutes the properties of musical time; accent is necessary
to parcel them out into those portions which Rhythm and the ear approve. If we listen to the
trotting of a horse or the tread of our own feet, we cannot but notice that each alternate
step is louder than the other--by which we throw the sounds into the order of common time.
But if we listen to the amble or canter of a horse, we hear every third step to be louder than
the other two, owing to the first and third foot striking the ground together. This regularity
throws the sounds, into the order of triple time. To one or other of these descriptions may
be referred every sort of time.

There is a sympathetic power in measured time which has not yet received the attention it deserves.
It has been found that in a watchmaker's shop the timepieces or clocks connected with the same
wall or shelf have such a sympathetic effect in keeping time, that they stop those which beat
in irregular time; and if any are at rest, set agoing those which beat accurately. What wonder
then that the living, soldiers, artisans, such as smiths, paviors, etc., who work in unison
with the pulse, should acquire habits of keeping time with the greatest correctness.

Rhythm not only measures the footfall of the pedestrian, but exerts a sympathetic power, so
that if two are walking together, they feel its spell, and unconsciously fall into the same
step, not aware that they are thus conforming to a Unity always engendered by the Order regulating
rhythmical motion. It is this entrancing sense of unity which wings the feet of the dancers,
and enables them to endure with delight a degree of physical exertion which, without it, would
be utterly exhausting. The continuous but rhythmed croon of the negro when at work, the yo-heave-o
of the sailor straining at the cordage, the rowing songs of the oarsman, etc., etc., are all
suggestive of what might be effected by judicious effort in this direction. But man, ever wiser
than his Maker, neglects the intuitions of nature. Rendered conceited by a false education,
and heartless by a constant craving for gold, he scorns the simple but deep intuitions which
are his surest guide to civilization, health, and cheerfulness. There can be no doubt that
the physical exercise so distasteful to the pale inhabitants of our cities, yet so essential
for the preservation of health and life, might be rendered delightful and invigorating through
the neglected powers of rhythmical motion. Like Michal, the proud daughter of Saul, who despised
King David in her haughty heart when 'she saw him dancing with all his might before the Lord,'
we scorn the simple and innocent delights of our nature, and, like Michal, we too are bitterly
punished for our mistaken pride of intellect, for, neglecting the rhythmical requisitions of
the body, we injure the mind, and may deprave the heart. Virtuously, purely, and judiciously
applied to the amusements and artistic culture of a people, we are convinced the power of Rhythm
would banish much of that craving for false excitement, for drinks and narcotics, an indulgence
in which exerts so fatal an influence over the character and spiritual progress of a nation.
It is surely not astonishing that Rhythm should be so pleasant to the senses, when we consider
that the laws of order and unity by which it is regulated are the proper aliment of the soul.

Strange pedantries have grown out of the neglect of music as a practical pervading element
in modern education. We should endeavor to reform this fault; we should use this powerful engine
of healing nature to remove from us the reproach of being merely a shopkeeping and money-making
people.

The wildest savage is not insensible to Rhythm. It fires his spirit in the war dance and battle
chant, soothes him in the monotonous hum of the pow-wow, and softens him in naive love songs.
It is the heart of music, and it can be proved that low and vulgar rhythms have a debasing
effect upon the character of a people. 'Let me write the songs of a people,' said a great thinker,
'and I care not who makes its laws:'--if he included the tunes, there was no exaggeration in
his thought. Alas! a meretricious age scorns and neglects the true, because it is always simple
in its sublimity, and, striving to banish God from His own creation, would also banish nature
and joy from the heart! A pedantic age loves all that is pretentious, glaring, and assuming;
and Rhythm stoops to rock the cradle of the newborn infant; to soothe the negro in the rice
swamp or cotton field; to shape into beauty the national and patriotic songs of a laborious
but contented peasantry, as among the Sclaves--but what cares the age for the happiness of
the race? 'Put money in thy purse,' is its consolation and lesson for humanity.

The beat of the healthful heart is in unison with the feelings of the hour. Agitation makes
it fitful and broken, excitement accelerates, and sorrow retards it. And this fact should be
the model for all poetical and musical rhythm.

To show how readily we associate feelings with different orders of sound, let us suppose we
are passing the night somewhere, where a stranger, utterly unknown to us, occupies a room from
which we can hear the sound of his footsteps. Suppose that through the tranquil hours of the
night we hear his measured tread falling in equally accented and monotonous spondees, it is
certain that a quick imagination will at once associate this deliberate tread with the state
of mind in the unknown from which it will believe it to proceed, and will immediately suggest
that the stranger is maturing some great design of heavy import to his future peace.

Should the character of the spondaic tread suddenly change, should the footsteps become rapid,
eager, and broken, we look upon the term of meditation and doubt as over, the resolve as definitely
fixed, and the unknown as restlessly longing for the hour of its fulfilment.

When we hear steps resembling dactyls, anapaests, and choriambs thrown hurriedly together,
broken by irregular pauses, we begin to build a whole romance on the steps of the stranger;
we infer from them moments of grave deliberation; the languor consequent upon overwrought thought;
renewed effort; resolve; alternations of passion; hope struggling with despair; until all at
last seems merged in impatient longing for the hour of anticipated victory.

Nor has the imagination been alone in its strange workings; it has whispered, as it always
does, its secrets to the heart, and succeeded in arousing its ever-ready affections, so that
we cannot help feeling a degree of interest in the unknown, whose emotions we have followed
through the night, reading their history in his alternating footsteps: for sounds impress themselves
immediately upon the feelings, exciting, not abstract or antagonistic thought, but uniting
humanity in concrete feeling. (See vol. i.)

As the imagination necessarily associates different feelings with different orders of Rhythm,
it is the task of the Poet to select those in the closest conformity with the emotions he is
struggling to excite. It is positively certain that we not only naturally and intuitively associate
distinctive feelings with different orders of rhythmical sounds, but that varied emotions are
awakened by them. Some rhythms inspire calmness, some sublime and stately courage, some energy
and aggressive force, some stir the spirit to the most daring deeds, some, as in our maddening
Tarantulas, produce a restless excitement through the whole nervous system, some excite mere
joyousness, some whisper love through every fibre of the heart, and some lead us in their holy
calm and unbroken order to the throne of God. Why is this? We need not look in the region of
the understanding for the philosophy of that which is to be found only in the living tide of
basic emotions. The pleasure we receive from Rhythm is a feeling. Alternate accentuation and
non-accentuation are facts in the living organism of the universe; this may be expressed, not
explained. There is an order in the living succession of musical sounds or poetic emotions,
which order is expressed by the words 'equality and proportion.' These things are. What more
can be said? Do comparisons help us? the waves in the eternal ocean of vitality--the shuttle
strokes of the ever-moving loom of creation! Let us take it as it is, and rejoice in it. We
cannot tell you why we live--let us be glad that our life is music through every heart-throb!

Rhythm is a species of natural but inarticulate language, in which the thought is never disengaged
from the feeling; in language its aim should be to awaken the feeling properly attached to
the thought it modulates; it should be the tune of the thought of the Poet. To write a love
song in alexandrines, an idyl in hexameters, would be to incarnate the shy spirit of a girl
in the brawny frame of a Hercules, to incase the loving soul of a Juliet in a gauntleted Minerva.
Genius and deep sympathy with human nature can alone guide the Poet aright in this delicate
and difficult path; it lies too near the core of our unconscious being to be susceptible of
the trim regularity of rule--he must trust his own intuitions while he studies with care what
has already been successfully done by our best poets. We may however remark in passing that
if the rhythm be abruptly broken without a corresponding break in the flow of thought or feeling,
the reader will be confused, because the outward form has fallen into contradiction with its
inner soul, and he discerns the opposition, and knows not with which to sympathize. Such contrarieties
argue want of power or want of freedom in the poet, who should never suffer the clanking of
his rhythmical chains to be heard. Such causeless breaks proceed from want of truth to the
subject, and prove a lack of the careful rendering of love in the author. The poet must listen
to the naive voice of nature as he moulds his rhythms, for the ingenious and elaborate constructions
of the intellect alone will never touch the heart. Rhythm may proceed with regularity, yet
that regularity be so relieved from monotony and so modified in its actual effects, that however
regular may be the structure of parts, what is composed of them may be infinitely various.
Milton's exquisite poem, 'Comus,' is an example of perfect rhythm with ceaseless intricacy
and great variety. It would indeed be a fatal mistake to suppose that proportion cannot be
susceptible of great variety, since the whole meaning of the term has reference to the adjustment
and proportional correspondence of variable properties.

The appreciation of rhythm is universal, pertaining to no region, race, nor era, in especial.
Even those who have never thought about it, feel order to be the law of life and happiness,
and in the marking of the proportioned flow of time and the regular accentuation of its determinate
portions find a perpetual source of healthful pleasure.

If we will but think of it, we will be astonished how many ideas already analyzed we may find
exhibited through rhythm. We may have: similarity, variety, identity, repetition, adaptation,
symmetry, proportion, fitness, melody, harmony, order, and unity; in addition to the varied
feelings of which it becomes the symbolic utterance. The Greeks placed rhythms in the hands
of a god, thus testifying to their knowledge of their range and power.

Rhythm lurks in the inmost heart of language, accenting our words that their enunciation may
be clear and distinct; lengthening and shortening the time of our syllables that they may be
expressive, emotional, and musical. Let the orator as well as the poet study its capabilities;
it has more power over the sympathies of the masses than the most labored thought.

Although through the quantitive arrangement and determinate accentuation of syllabic sound,
rhythm may be exquisitely manifested through language, yet in music alone does it attain its
full power and wonderful complexity. For the tones are not thoughts, but feelings, and yield
themselves implicitly to the loving hand which would reunite them and form them into higher
unities. These passionate tones, always seeking for and surging into each other, are plastic
pearls on the string of rhythm, whose proportions may be indefinitely varied at the will of
the fond hand which would wreathe them into strands of symmetrical beauty; while words, the
vehicles of antagonistic thought, frequently refuse to conform to the requisitions of feeling,
are often obstinate and wilful, will not be remodelled, and hard, in their self-sufficiency,
refuse to bear any stamp save that of their known and fixed value. Like irregular beads of
uncut coral, they protrude their individualities in jagged spikes and unsightly thorns, breaking
often the unity of the whole, and painfully wounding the sense of order.

The true poet overcomes these difficulties. When, in the hands of a master, they are forced
to bend under the onward and impetuous sweep of the passionate rhythm, compelled to sing the
tune of the overpowering emotions--the chords of the spirit quiver in response.

  'There is no architect
     Can build as the Muse can;
   She is skilful to select
     Materials for her plan.

  'That so they shall not be displaced
     By lapses or by wars,
   But for the love of happy souls
     Outlive the newest stars.'
                            EMERSON.

'OUR ARTICLE.'

'John,' said I to my husband, as he came home from business, and settled into an armchair for
half an hour's rest before dinner, 'I think of writing an article for THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY.'

'Humph!' said my husband.

Now 'humph' bears different interpretations; it may argue assent, indifference, disgust, disapprobation--in
all cases it is aggressive; but this 'humph' seemed to be a combination of at least three of
the above-mentioned frames of mind.

Natural indignation was about taking full possession of me, but reflection stepped in, and
I preserved a discreet silence. The truth is, no man should be assailed by a new idea before
he has dined, and I, having had three years' opportunity of studying man nature, met my deserts
when the above answer was given. So I still looked amiable, and behaved very prettily till
dinner was over, and then John, having subsided into dressing gown, slippers, easy chair, and
good nature, I remarked again:

'John, I think of writing an article for THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY.'

'How shall you begin it?' said he.

'Well, I haven't exactly settled on a beginning yet, but--'

'Exactly! I supposed so!' remarked this barbarian.

Unfortunately, he knew my weak point, for hadn't he been allowed to see a desk full of magnificent
middles, only wanting a beginning and an end, and a publisher, and some readers, to place me
in the front ranks of our modern essayists, side by side with 'Spare Hours,' and the 'Country
Parson,' and 'Gail Hamilton?'

The fact is, I have always been brimming over with brilliant ideas on all sorts of subjects,
which never would arrange themselves or be arranged under any given head, but presented a series
of remarkable literary fragments, jotted down on stray bits of paper, in old account books
and diaries, and even, on one or two occasions, when seized by a sudden inspiration, on a smooth
stone, taken from the brook, a fair sheet of birch bark, and the front of a pew in a white-painted
country church. Having been subject to these inspirational attacks for many years, I had decided
to take them in hand, and, if they must come, derive some benefit from them. An idea suggested
itself. Claude Lorraine, it is said, never put the figures in his landscapes, but left that
work for some brother artist. Now I could bring together material for an article; the inspiration,
the picturing should be mine, but John should put in the figures. In other words, he should
polish it, write the introduction and the finis, and send it out to the public, as the work
of 'my wife and I.'

Then a question occurred: how should we divide the honors, supposing such an article should
really find its way into print? Would there not be material for a standard quarrel in the fact
that neither could claim sole proprietorship? What would be John's sensation, should any one
say to him: 'Mr. ----, I have just been reading your wife's last article; capital thing!' and,
vice versa, imagine the same thing said of me. Could I preserve amiability under such circumstances,
and would not the result be, a divorce in a year, and a furious lawsuit as to the ownership
of the copyright? John certainly is magnanimous, I thought, but no one cares for divided honors,
and there is that middle-aged relation of his, with a figure like a vinegar cruet, and a voice
as acid as its contents, who never comes here for a day without doing her best to set us by
the ears, and who, in the beginning of our married life, when we did not understand each other
quite so well as now, sometimes succeeded, to her intense satisfaction.

How she would go about among all the friends and relations, pulling the poor articles to pieces,
giving all the fine bits to John and the rubbish to me, and hinting generally that my pretensions
to authorship were all very well, but that every one knew John did the work and I looked out
for the credit.

Here I paused. I had been successfully engaged in the pursuit of trouble, and had conjured
up so irritating a picture, that actually a small tear had left its source, and was running
over the bridge of my nose!

'John,' I said, 'notwithstanding that I never did know how to begin anything in an effective
way, I am still determined to write, and you must help me.'

Then I opened my heart to him, and told him my plan, and the imagined tribulation it had given
me in the last ten minutes.

'There are too many writers already, Helen,' he said; 'every man who cannot see his way clear
through life--every woman who fancies herself misunderstood and unappreciated, worries out
a book or poem or a set of essays, to picture their individual wrongs and sufferings, and bores
every publisher of every magazine and paper of which they have ever heard, till he is tormented
into printing, or dies of manuscript on the brain. I tell you, Helen, we do our share in aggravating
the people we meet daily, without tormenting an innocent man, 'who never did us any harm;'
and I for one, don't want an extra sin on my conscience. Moreover, I am afraid it would spoil
you, should you happen to succeed. Have you forgotten your old friend Angelina Hobbs? One article
ruined her for life. Until that poem got into print and was favorably noticed, she was as sensible
as ordinary girls, and never imagined herself a genius. Since then, there is not an 'ism' in
America that she has not taken up and run into the ground; I have met her in every stage, from
the coat and pantaloons of the Bloomer ten years ago to the hoopless old maid I saw yesterday
going into Dodworth's Hall with the last spiritual paper and a spirit photograph in her hand.
Not a literary man or woman do I know, who has not some crotchet in his or her brain, and who
does not in some way violate the harmonies of life at least once an hour. Be content as you
are: be satisfied to live without seeing yourself in THE CONTINENTAL MONTHLY, or any other
monthly under the sun!'

'John,' I said, 'I am surprised, I am astonished at the view you take of the case. I don't
desire that publishers should be tormented into their graves; and if they are all as fat and
rosy as the two we met the other day, I think you can dismiss all fears on that score. Moreover,
I believe the world to be better for every book that is written, however insignificant it may
be. The days of the corsairs and giaours, romantic robbers, and devout murderers, are over:
our young ladies and our servant girls see no fascination in the pages of 'Fatherless Fanny,'
'The Foundling,' or 'The Mysteries of Slabtown.' Arthur's stories and ten thousand others of
the same class have taken their place, and commonplace as they may often be, have brought a
healthier influence into action. No book written with an honest heart is lost; no poem or essay,
however poor, fails to reach some mark. The printed page that to you or me looks so barren
and poor, may carry to some soul a message of healing; may to some eyes have the light of heaven
about it. And to how many aimless lives, writing has given a purpose which otherwise never
might have entered it! John, I believe in writing, and this baby shall be taught to put his
ideas into shape as soon as he is taught anything! I never wish him to settle down in the belief
that he is a genius and can live on the fact; but he shall write if he can, and publish too,
if any one will do it for him. If not, we will have a private printing press of our own, and
get up an original library for our descendants.'

'A genuine woman's answer,' said John; 'only one point in it touching upon my argument.' Here
the baby opened his blue eyes wide. 'There!' said John; 'just for the present your life has
a purpose, and we can dispense with writing, at least till that fellow is asleep again. When
you have disposed of him, we will find out how many aims it is necessary for one woman to have,
and what arrangement of them it is best to make.'

The baby stayed awake obstinately, but I was reconciled to the fact, for our discussion might
have become hot, and the writing ended for that evening quite as effectually as the baby had
done it.

Night came again, and this time John opened the subject, by placing before me a large package
of foolscap, and a new gold pen.

'I have brought some paper for you to spoil, Helen,' he said, 'for I foresaw how it would end.
Do your best, and I will do mine in the matter of beginnings. I cannot write easily, you know,
but I can suggest and dictate, when you wish it; and you have been my amanuensis for a year
and more, so it will all seem very natural.'

He looked down, as he spoke, at the scarred right hand and its missing fingers, carried away
eighteen months before by a rebel bullet, and a little shade passed over his face.

'No, John,' I said, 'don't look there now; look at my two hands waiting to do the work of that,
and tell me if two are not better than one. We will write an article which shall astonish the
critics, and bring letters from all the magazines, begging us to become special contributors
at once; and we will not quarrel as to who shall have the glory, but make it a joint matter.
And now I am ready to begin, and propose to speak upon a subject which I wonder greatly no
one has taken up in detail before. Your words last evening brought out some dormant ideas.
'We do our share in aggravating the people we meet daily,' you said, and I have been reflecting
upon the matter ever since, till now I am prepared to give my opinions to the world.'

So saying, I arranged the table properly, took out some sheets of the smooth, white paper,
filled my pen, and waited for the dawning of an idea. To which it came first, I shall not tell
you. The results are before you: which part is John's, which mine, you will never learn from
us. It will be of no avail for you to write to the editors, for they don't know either, and
will not be told. It will be a useful exercise for you to dissect the article, and set apart
the masculine from the feminine portions. The critics will for once be quite at a loss how
to abuse it, probably. I foresee a general distraction in the minds of our readers, and already
hear ourselves classed as among one of the trials which I select as the title of 'Our Article.'

SOME OF THE AGGRAVATIONS OF LIVING.

Two thirds of life in the aggregate are made up of aggravations. They begin with our beginning,
and only cease with our ending; perhaps, if good Calvinists speak the truth, not even then,
for, according to their belief, the souls in torment look always upon the blessed in heaven,
and this surely is the most horrible species of aggravation ever devised by man or fiend.

From the time when the air first fills the lungs and the infant screams at the new sensation,
to the day when fingers press down the resisting lids and straighten the stiffening limbs,
we are forced to meet and to bear all manner of aggravations in nine tenths of our daily life.

Has it ever occurred to any of you what an amount of unnecessary suffering an infant endures,
and have you ever watched the operations it undergoes daily, with reference to the confirming
of this fact? If not, an inexhaustible field of inquiry lies open before you, and after a week's
observation of bandages rolled till the flesh actually squeaks--of pins stuck in and left,
where you know they will prick--of smotherings in blankets and garrotings with bibs--of trottings
for the wind and poundings for the stomach ache--of wakings up to show to visitors, and puttings
to sleep when sleep is at the other end of the land of Nod, and will not be induced to come
under any circumstances--of rockings and tossings--of boiling catnip tea and smooth horrible
castor oil poured down the unsuspecting throat--after a week of such observations, I say, you
will decide with me that the baby's life is only a series of aggravations, and feel astonished
the bills of infant mortality do not double and treble.

As years round out the little life, the hands, reaching out to the tree of knowledge, find
themselves pushed back on all sides. The dearest wishes are made light of, the most earnest
desires slighted, the most sacred thoughts ridiculed, till one marvels that men can grow up
anything but devils. In the path where Gail Hamilton's feet have trod I need not follow, for
she has told us what these 'Happiest Days' are, in better words than my pen can find. It warmed
my heart as I read her protest against the platitudes concerning childhood and its various
imagined delights. Mentally I shook hands, for she expressed my ideas so fully, that the notes
I had long ago jotted down upon the subject I committed at once to the flames, satisfied I
never could do any better, and might possibly do very much worse.

I believe that the major part of sour-tempered, perversely wrong-headed, and unhappily disposed
people, of hot-headed fanatics, victims to one idea, of once noble souls who sink themselves
in sensuality, and so go down to death, and of all the sad cases one hears and reads of day
after day and year after year, are made so through unceasing aggravation at the most impressible
time of life. Do any of you who may be my readers know of half a dozen happy families in your
circle of friends and acquaintance? Do you know of half a dozen where boys prefer home and
their sisters to the streets, or where girls do not court the most uninviting boy in preference
to their own brothers?

One would almost imagine spite had been the feeling implanted in all homes, as they look at
the private pinch exchanged between John and James, the face made by Mary at which Martha cries
and is slapped by way of adjusting matters, and the general refusal of requests made to father
and mother, whether reasonable or not. My own childhood was moderately happy, and yet I recall
now the sense of burning indignation I sometimes suffered at wrongs done me, which the child's
sense of justice told me were wrongs, and which I now know to have been so. Children are themselves
one of the aggravations of living, but it is because we do not know how to treat them. I look
for a time when every father shall be just, every mother reasonable as well as loving; when
children shall neither be flogged up the way of life as in times past, or coaxed up with sugarplums
as in times present, but, seeing with clear eyes the straight path, shall walk in it with joy,
and finish their course with rejoicing.

Another aggravation, and not a minor one either it strikes me, is the summary way in which
youth is put down by middle-aged and aged people. Youthful emotions are 'bosh and twaddle,'
youthful ideas, 'crude, sir, very crude!' and youthful attempts to be and to do something in
the world frowned at, as if action of any sort, save inaction, before forty, were an outrage
on humanity, and an insult to the Creator.

How fares it with young professional men during the first ten years of their career? They hope
and wait, doubt and wait, curse and wait, labor to wait, and in the mean time a wheezing old
lawyer, with no more enthusiasm than a brickbat, takes the cases which Justice, if she were
not blind, would have sent to his starving younger brethren, and pockets fat fees, a tenth
of which would have lifted loads from many a heavy heart. An old family physician, an old minister,
an old lawyer, are excellent in their way, and have a variety of pleasant associations with
them, which it is impossible to pass over to the young aspirant who steps in to take their
place; yet because Dr. Jones, aged sixty-eight, carried us safely through the measles, does
it follow that Dr. Smith, aged twenty-eight, cannot do the same for our children?

Because for thirty years the Rev. Dr. Holdfast has preached upon election, and justification
by faith, is the Rev. Dr. Holeman to be set down as presumptuously progressive, because he
suggests works as a test of the faith we profess, and ventures to speak of God, not as the
stern Deity who commands us all to be afraid of Him, and who drops lost souls into the pit
with a calm satisfaction, but as the loving Father of the world, who wills that all men should
come to the knowledge of His truth.

It is well for the old to give us their experience, well for the young to listen, but every
man and every woman lives a life of their own, which the widest experience cannot touch at
all points. No two natures have ever been nor ever can be exactly alike; no rules of the past
can form the present in the same mould. Girls and boys, young men and women, must 'see the
folly' for themselves, and all the advice and warning of all the ancestors under heaven cannot
prevent it. Therefore, O middle-aged aunt, or white-haired grandparent, aggravate by unceasing
advice, if you will, but be not aggravated if it isn't taken. Reflect as to how fully you availed
yourself of the experience of your grandparents when you were young, and then make your demands
accordingly. Tell the young the story of your life as a story, and they will listen and mayhap
profit; give it as advice, and you shall see them keep as far off as circumstances will admit.
It is my fixed belief that until the people in the world have learned how to hold their tongues,
it will be entirely useless to read Dr. Cumming; believe in the Great Tribulation as much as
you please, for it is about us all day long, but don't look out for the Millennium, which I
think will consist entirely in people's minding their own business.

In the inability or unwillingness of people to let other people alone, may be summed up all
the aggravation of living. The bane of my life has been never being let alone. People seem
to think they have come into the world with a special mission to give me advice, and from my
babyhood up, I have never been allowed to carry out the best-arranged plan of operation, without
interference. As each man and woman is the representative of a certain class, I conclude others
have had the same experience with myself; and there is a gloomy satisfaction in reflecting
that there are many who have been made as essentially uncomfortable as I. The result has been,
I have come to the unalterable determination never, under any circumstances, to either advise
anybody or receive it myself where it can be avoided. If it is ordained that I am to make a
fool of myself, it shall be done on my own responsibility, and not with the assistance of meddling
friends--though if they have any desire to take the credit of it, I shall make no objections
whatever. I doubt if they will. The longer I live in the world, the clearer appears the fact
that half at least of our unhappiness is unnecessary. We seem perversely bent on tormenting
and being tormented. We visit people for whom we do not care one straw, because our position
in society or our interests demand it. We sacrifice our own judgment to the whims of others
as a matter of expediency, and almost ignore our own capacity in the eagerness to agree with
everybody. We suffer because a rich snob snubs us, and agonize over unfavorable remarks made
concerning our abilities or standing. These things ought not so to be. No man can find a substitute
when he lies a-dying;--why should all his years be spent in the vain endeavor to find a substitute
for living? An endless dependence upon the opinions, the whims, the prejudices of others, is
the bane of living, and the mark of a weak mind, made so oftener by education than nature.

When the young forget to abuse the old, and the old to run down the young; when mothers-in-law
cease to hate their daughters-in-law, and to improve all opportunities for sowing strife; when
wives take pains to understand their husbands, and husbands decide that woman nature is worth
studying; when women can remember to be charitable to other women; when the Golden Rule can
be read as it is written, and not 'Do unto others as ye would not they should do unto you;'
when justice and truth rule men, rather than unreason and petty spite, then the aggravation
of living will die a natural death, and the world become as comfortable an abiding place as
its inhabitants need desire.

Till then, hope and wait. Live the life God gives us, as purely and truly as you know how.
Have some faith in human nature, but more in God, and wait his own good time for the perfect
life, not to be reached here, but hereafter.

THE LESSON OF THE WOOD.

  In the same soil the family of trees
  Spring up, and, like a band of brothers, grow
  In the same sun, while from their leafy lips
  Comes not the faintest whisper of dissent
  Because of various girth and grain and hue.
  The oak flings not his acorns at the elm;
  The white birch shrinks not from the swarthy ash;
  The green plume of the pine nods to the shrub;
  The loftiest monarch of the realm of wood
  Spares not his crown in elemental storms,
  But shares the blows with trees of humbler growth,
  And stretches forth his arms to save their fall.
  Wild flowers festoon the feet of all alike;
  Green mosses grow upon the trunks of all;
  Sweet birds pour out their songs on every bough;
  Clouds drop baptismal showers of rain on each,
  And the broad sun floods every leaf with light.
  Behold them clad in Autumn's golden pomp--
  Their rich magnificence, of different dyes,
  More beautiful than royal robes, and crowns
  Of emperors on coronation day.
  But the deserted nest in silence sways
  Like a sad heart beneath a royal scarf;
  And the red tint upon the maple leaves
  Is colored like the fields where fell our braves
  In hurricanes of flame and leaden hail.
  I love to gaze up at the grand old trees;
  Their branches point like hope to Heaven serene;
  Their roots point to the silent world that's dead;
  Their grand old trunks hold towns and fleets for us,
  And cots and coffins for the race unborn.
  When at their feet their predecessors fell,
  Spring covered their remains with mourning moss,
  And wrote their epitaph in pale wood flowers,
  And Summer gave ripe berries to the birds
  To stay and sing their sad sweet requiem;
  And Autumn rent the garments of the trees
  That stood mute mourners in a field of graves,
  And Winter wrapped them in a winding sheet.
  They seemed like giants sleeping in their shrouds.

DIARY OF FRANCES KRASINSKA;

OR, LIFE IN POLAND DURING THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY.

  CASTLE OF JANOWIEC,
  Wednesday, May 27th, 1760.

I had hoped too much! He is going, and the memory of the past will render the days to come
very sad. I knew that Monday was an unlucky day: since my maid gave me such a fright by announcing
the approaching departure of the princes, all has gone from bad to worse.

The huntsman who brought me the bouquet from the prince, told me, in his name, that he too
was forced to depart. With great difficulty could he invent a pretext for remaining three days
after his brothers left. These three days will not expire until to-morrow, and yet he leaves
me to-day; he must go, and can no longer delay. The king has sent an express for him, with
an order to return as soon as possible. He will leave in one half hour, and I do not know when
we can meet again. Ah! how soon happiness passes away!...

Sunday, June 7th.

It is now two weeks since the prince royal left me; he has sent two expresses, and slipped
two notes for me under cover to the prince palatine. But what is a letter?... An unfinished
thought--it soothes for a moment, but cannot calm. A letter can never replace even a few seconds
of personal intercourse; he has left me his portrait; I am sure every one would think it like
him; but for me, it is merely a shred of inanimate canvas. It has his features, but it is not
he, and has not his expression.... I have him much better in my memory.

All consolation is denied me, for I will not reply to his letters; this restraint I have imposed
upon myself; I am sure that my hand would become motionless as the cold marble were I to write
to the man I love without the knowledge of my aunt, my elder sister, and my parents. I told
the prince royal that he could never have a letter from me until I was his wife. This is a
great sacrifice, but I have promised my God that I will accomplish it.

Since his departure, time weighs upon me as a continued torture. During the first few days
I wandered about as if bereft of reason; I could not fix my thoughts, or apply myself to any
occupation. The illness of the princess has restored some energy to my soul. The injury to
her foot, which she at first neglected, has become very serious; during three days she had
a burning fever, which threatened her life. My anguish was beyond description; I am sure I
could not have been more uneasy had it been my sister or one of my parents. I scarcely thought
of the prince royal during the whole of those three days; and what is most strange, I no longer
regretted his absence; if he had been here, I could not have devoted myself so entirely to
the princess. The idea of her death was terrible to me, for, notwithstanding all the arguments
of the prince royal and of the Princes Lubomirski, I feel myself very culpable in having withheld
my confidence from her; if she suspects the truth, she has every reason to accuse me of perfidy....
There is in this world but one inconsolable evil, and that is the torture of a bad conscience--remorse....

I hoped one day to be able to repair my wrongs toward the princess, to fall at her feet and
confess my fault, but when I saw her in danger, I felt as if hell itself were menacing me,
and as if I must be forever crushed under the weight of an eternal remorse.... Another thought
too has distressed me to the very bottom of my soul! My parents are advanced in years; if I
should lose them before I have confessed my secret to them! It is written above that I am to
know every sorrow! Heaven has cruelly tried me, but to-day a ray of pity seems to have fallen
upon my miserable fate. The princess is steadily improving, and I have received good news from
Maleszow; I breathe again.

Were the king to give his consent to our marriage, I could not be happier than I was on hearing
from the physician's own mouth that the princess was out of danger.... I will then be able
to open my heart to her! Ah! my God! if this painful dissimulation weighs so heavily upon me,
what must be the state of the prince royal, who is deceiving his father, his king, and offending
him by a misplaced affection!

Why did not these reflections present themselves to me before? Why did I not show him the abyss
into which we were about to fall?... My happiness then blinded me, and now I can fancy no condition
which I would not prefer to my own.... I feel humiliated by my imprudence. Did I not, with
the whole strength of my wishes and desires draw upon me this very love so dear to my heart
and so fatal to my repose? My pride has lost me; and that pride is an implacable enemy, which
I have no longer strength to subdue. Oh! I must indeed blame our little Matthias! It was he
who first awoke such ambitious dreams within my soul.

Happy Barbara! If I only, like her, loved a man of rank equal to my own! But no, I am not of
good faith with myself: the prince royal's position dazzled me. Ah! how merciful is heaven
to cover our innermost thoughts with an impenetrable veil! Alas! God pardons the defects in
our frail humanity sooner than we ourselves can!

I left the princess half an hour ago, and must now return to her; she loves so to have me with
her! And indeed, no one can wait upon her as well as myself. I feel happy when sitting at her
bedside; I regain courage when I think that I am useful to her, and I feel a kind of joy in
finding that my heart is not occupied by one sentiment to the exclusion of all others.

CASTLE OF OPOLE, Thursday, June 18th.

The princess has entirely recovered, and we have been three days at Opole. I was sorry to leave
Janowiec, for all around me bore the impress of his presence. In his last letter, he announces
a very sad piece of news: he is forced to pass two months in his duchy of Courland. He will
endeavor to see me before he goes; but will he succeed? Two months! how many centuries, when
one must wait!

We have had several visitors from Warsaw; among others, Adam Krasinski, Bishop of Kamieniec;
he is in every way estimable, and universally esteemed! All speak of the change in the prince
royal: he is pale and sad, and flies the world. The king himself is uneasy concerning his son,
and it is I who am the cause of all this woe. Is love then a never-ending source of sorrow?
He suffers for me, and his suffering is my most cruel torment.... They say too that I am changed,
and believe me ill: the good princess attributes my pallor to the nights I have watched by
her side. Her manifestations of interest pierce my heart! When shall I be at peace with my
conscience?

Saturday, July 11th.

Like a flash of lightning has a single ray of happiness shone out and then disappeared. He
came here to see me, but could remain only two hours. Last Wednesday he left Warsaw, as if
he were going to Courland, but, sending his carriages before him on the way to the north, he
turned aside and hastened here. His court awaited him at Bialystok, and he was forced to travel
night and day to avoid suspicion. I saw him for so short a time that those few happy moments
seem only a dream. He was obliged to assume his huntsman's dress in order to gain admittance
unknown into the castle.

No one penetrated his disguise, and no one except the prince palatine was cognizant of our
interview. He spoke to me, he gave me repeated assurances of his love, and restored to me my
dearest hopes; had he not done so, I feel I should have died before the expiration of the three
months. Three months is the very least that he can remain at Mittau. How many days, how many
hours, how many minutes in those three months! I could be more resigned were I alone to suffer;
but he is so unhappy at our separation!

Thursday, September 3d.

I have neglected my journal during nearly two months. Good and evil, all passes in this world.
My days have been sad and monotonous, but they are gone, and their flight brings me nearer
to my happiness. The prince royal assures me in all his letters that he will return in October.
I was crazy with joy to-day when I found the leaves were falling: I am charmed with this foretaste
of autumn. We will leave for Warsaw in a very few days.

A new incident has lately come to pass: a very brilliant match has been offered for me, and
the princess, who loves me twice as well since I nursed her through her illness, after having
concerted the marriage with my parents and the Bishop of Kamieniec, hoped to win my consent.
I was forced to bear her anger and reproaches, and worse than all that, the bitter allusions
which she made to the prince royal....

To satisfy my parents, I was obliged to humiliate myself, and write a letter of excuse; my
mother deigned to send me a reply filled with sorrow, but without anger. She ends her letter
by saying: 'Parents who send their children away from them, must expect to find them rebellious
to their will.'

My poor mother! She still gives me her sacred blessing, and assures me of my father's forgiveness!
Ah! I purchase very dearly my future happiness and greatness!

WARSAW, Tuesday, September 22d.

We returned to Warsaw several days ago. Ah! with what joy did I find myself once more here;
how beautiful this city is! Here I will often see the prince royal. He assures me in his last
letter that he will return by the first of October; I have then only one week to wait; without
this hope I should no longer have any desire to live. Nothing now gives me any pleasure. Dress
tires and annoys me, visits and assemblies weary me to death; every person whom I meet seems
to me a scrutinizing judge; I fancy that all are pitying or blaming me. Especially do I fear
the women of my acquaintance; they are not indulgent, because they are never disinterested;
they are no better pleased with another woman's good fortune than they are with her beauty
and agreeability....

Even yesterday, with what cruelty Madame ----, but I will not write her name--questioned me!
She enjoyed my confusion; I was almost ready to weep, and she was delighted. In the presence
of fifty persons, she revenged herself for what is called my triumph, but what I consider the
most sacred happiness. Ah! how deeply she wounded me! I almost hate her.... This feeling alone
was wanting to complete the torment of my soul. The prince palatine took pity on me, and came
to my aid; may God reward him! In every difficult crisis he is always near with his active
and powerful friendship. He would be quite perfect, if he only understood me a little better;
but when I weep and show my sorrow, he laughs and calls me a child.... I cannot tell him everything.

Thursday, October 1st.

He has come, and I have seen him; he is quite well, and yet I am not happy. I saw him amid
a crowd of indifferent people; and when my feelings impelled me to run and meet him in the
palace court, I was forced to remain by my work table and wait until he came into the saloon,
when he of course first saluted the princess, and my only consolation consisted in being able
to make him a formal and icy reverence. But he is come, and all must now go well.

October 12th.

Great God! how sweet are the words to which I have just given utterance! Happy, a thousand
times happy, is the woman who can promise with all her heart to give her hand during her whole
life to him whom she loves! The fourth of November is the prince's birthday. He desires, he
demands, that this may be the day of our holy union! He made me swear by my God, and by my
parents, that I would no longer oppose his wishes; he said he would doubt my affection if I
still hesitated. His tears and prayers overcame me; encouraged by the advice of the prince
palatine, I promised all he desired, and already do I repent my weakness. But he--he was happy
when he left me....

He wished our marriage to be kept secret from my parents, as it must be during some time from
the rest of the world; he desired that the Princes Lubomirski should be our only witnesses
and our only confidants; but I opposed this project with all my strength; I even threatened
him with becoming a nun rather than play so guilty a part toward my parents. He finally yielded:
he is so kind to me. It was then decided that I should write to my parents, and that he would
add a postscript to my letter.

At first I felt grateful to him for his submission; but with a little more reflection I felt
offended. Is it not he who should write to my parents? Is it not thus that such affairs are
conducted? Alas, yes; but only when one weds an equal! It is a prince, a prince of the blood
royal who deigns to unite himself to me! He then does me a favor in wedding me.... This thought
has become so bitter that I was on the point of retracting; but it is too late, for I have
given my word.

I must now write to my parents; I must confess to them the love which I have so long kept a
secret from them. Ah! how wicked they will think me! I have been wanting in confidence toward
the best of mothers.... My God! inspire me; give me courage! A criminal dragged before his
judges could not tremble more than I do!

Thursday, October 22d.

The prince palatine's confidential chamberlain has already left for Maleszow. I am very well
satisfied with my letter; but the prince royal finds fault with it, and says it is too humble;
I, in my turn, found his postscript altogether too royal. I was about to tell him so, when
the prince palatine stopped me.

What will my parents say? Perhaps they will refuse their consent, and, strange as it may appear,
during the last few days, the sense of my own dignity has been stronger than my vanity or my
desire for greatness. This event seems to me quite ordinary: it is true he is the prince royal,
Duke of Courland, and will perhaps one day be King of Poland, but if he has not my father's
consent, it is he who is not my equal.

If no opposition is made to my marriage, I ardently desire that it may be the parish priest
of Maleszow who will give us the nuptial benediction; the prince palatine has promised me to
do all he can; at least, he will be the representative of my parents, and will confer a small
degree of propriety upon the ceremony. Barbara's destiny is ever in my thoughts! I deemed her
wishes very modest when she said to me: 'Strive to be as happy as I am!' Alas! her happiness
is immense, when I compare it with mine!...

Wednesday, October 28th.

My parents' answer has arrived; they give us their blessing and wish me much happiness; but
the tenderness they express toward me is not like that obtained and merited by Barbara. This
is just; I suffer, but have no right to complain. The prince royal expected to receive an especial
letter addressed to himself; but my parents have not written to him. He is piqued, and conversed
a long time with the prince palatine on the pride of certain Polish nobles.

I feel more tranquil since my parents know our secret; my heart is relieved from a most cruel
torment. My parents promise not to reveal our marriage without the prince royal's consent;
one may see in their letter both joy and surprise; but there is a tone of sadness in my mother's
expressions which touches me deeply. She says:

'If you are unhappy, I will not be responsible for it; if you are happy (and I shall never
cease to beg this blessing of God in my prayers), I will rejoice, but at the same time regret
that I had no part in contributing to your felicity'....

These words are almost illegible, for I have nearly effaced them with my tears.

The curate from Maleszow will arrive next week, and we will be married immediately after. The
prince palatine has had the necessary papers prepared, and no one has any suspicion. I can
scarcely believe that my marriage is so near.... No preparations will be made for me; all must
be conducted with the greatest secrecy. When Barbara married, she had no reason to hide herself;
all Maleszow was in commotion on her account.

If I could only see the prince royal, I should feel consoled. But sometimes two whole days
pass by without any possibility of meeting him. He is afraid of exciting the king's suspicions,
and still more, those of Bruhl; he avoids me at all public assemblies, and comes less frequently
to the prince palatine's. To all these painful necessities of my position must I submit.

Yesterday evening, at Madame Moszynska's soirée, I accidentally overheard a conversation which
pained me deeply. A gentleman whom I did not know, said to his neighbor: 'But the Starostine
Krasinska is terribly changed!' The answer was: 'That is not at all astonishing, for the poor
young girl is madly in love with the prince royal, and he is somewhat capricious; when he sees
a pretty woman, he falls in love with her immediately, and now he is all devotion to Madame
Potocka, and has eyes for no one but her.'

I am sure the prince pretends to be occupied with other women that he may the more readily
conceal his real feelings, and yet I shuddered when I heard this conversation. It is really
frightful to be the subject of such improper pleasantries!

If I only had a friend in whom I could confide, and whose advice I could ask! My maid is as
stupid as an owl, and suspects nothing, but notwithstanding, she is to be sent to the interior
of Lithuania, and in a few days her place will be supplied by a middle-aged married lady of
good birth and acknowledged discretion. I have not seen her yet, and I have no one to consult
with regard to my wedding toilette. For want of a better adviser, I consulted the prince palatine,
and he replied: 'Dress as you do every day.'

What a strange destiny! I am making the most brilliant marriage in the whole kingdom, and yet
my shoemaker's daughter will have a trousseau and wedding festivities which I am forced to envy.

WARSAW, Wednesday, November 4th, 1760.

My destiny is accomplished, and I am the prince royal's wife! We have sworn before God eternal
love and fidelity; he is mine, irrevocably mine! Ah! how sweet, and yet how cruel was that
moment! They were forced to hurry the ceremony, as we feared discovery.

I saw nothing of the prince royal during the week preceding my marriage; he feigned sickness,
and did not leave his room; he has refused to-day invitations to dinner at the prince primates,
the ambassadors, and even one to the ball given by the grand general of the crown: his supposed
illness was the pretext on which he freed himself from these obligations.

My former waiting woman was sent away day before yesterday, and yesterday came the new one,
who has sworn upon the crucifix to be silent upon all she may see and hear.

At five o'clock this morning, the prince palatine knocked at my door; I had been dressed for
at least two hours. We departed as noiselessly as possible, the prince royal and Prince Martin
Lubomirski met us at the palace gate.... The night was dark, the wind blew, and the cold was
intense. We went on foot to the Carmelite church, because it is the nearest: our good priest
already stood before the altar. If the prince royal had not supported me, I should have fallen
many times during the passage.

And how sad and melancholy was all within the church! On all sides the silence and darkness
of the grave! Two wax tapers burned upon the altar, casting a dim and uncertain light, while
the sound of our own steps was the only sign of life heard within the solemn and sombre vault
of the temple. The ceremony did not last ten minutes, the curate made all possible haste, and
we fled the church as if we had committed some crime. The prince royal returned with us: Prince
Martin wished him to go at once to the palace, but he would not leave me, and with great difficulty
did he at length part from me.

My dress was such as I wear every day. I had only dared to place one little branch of rosemary
in my hair.... While I was dressing, I thought of Barbara's wedding, and could not refrain
from weeping.... It was not my mother who prepared the ducat, the morsel of bread, the salt,
and the sugar, which the betrothed should bear with her on her wedding day; and so, at the
last moment, I forgot them.

I am now alone in my chamber; not a single friendly eye will say to me: 'Be happy!' My parents
have not blessed me.... Profound silence reigns in every direction, all are yet asleep, and
this light burns as if near a corpse.... Ah! my God! what a mournful festival! Were it not
for this feverish agitation and this wedding ring, which I must soon take off and hide from
every eye, I should believe all these events to be merely a dream.... But no, I am his, and
God has received our vows.

SULGOSTOW, Monday, December 24th.

I thought when I married that I would no longer have any occasion to write in my journal: I
believed that a friend, another me, would be the depositary of all my thoughts. I said to myself:
'Why should I write, when I will tell all to the prince royal (it seems to me as if I could
call him thus during my whole life)? He does not know enough Polish to read my diary, and consequently
it is useless.' But everything separates me from my well-beloved husband; I will continue to
write that I may be more closely bound to him, that I may preserve all the remembrances which
come to me from him.... I am pursued by a pitiless fate! Ah! what despair is at my heart!...
When shall I see him again?

These last few days have been fearful! I thank Heaven that I am not yet mad! The princess palatiness
has sent me from her house, driven me out as if I were unworthy to remain.... I have taken
refuge with my sister at Sulgostow: when I arrived, I sent for Barbara and her husband, and
said to them: 'Oh, have pity, have pity on me, for I am innocent; I am the prince royal's wife!'

My poor sister, to whom the whole transaction was a mystery, thought I had lost my reason,
and was about calling in her maids to aid me. I endeavored to calm her fears, and to-day I
have confided to her all my sorrows.

I will try to write down all these recent events. If God ever permits me to enjoy happiness
and tranquillity, I will again read these pages, and will better appreciate the value of a
quiet felicity.

Six weeks passed after our marriage, and no one had the least suspicion: neither the king,
the court, nor the watchful society surrounding me, had penetrated our secret; all called me
as usual, the Starostine Krasinska. The prince royal, under the pretext of his health, went
nowhere, and the prince palatine managed our interviews. But a week since the prince royal
began to go out, and paid a visit to my aunt, the princess. I was in the saloon when he was
announced; it was the first time since our marriage that I had seen him in presence of a third
person, and I found it impossible to hide my confusion. I could not see and hear him without
telling him through my eyes that I loved him.

The princess observed me. When he was gone, she scolded me, and reproached me with what she
called my coquetry and imprudence; I could not bear her injustice, and very rashly replied,
that no one had a right to blame me when my own conscience absolved me. The prince royal came
again the next day; the princess was abstracted, and a dissatisfaction, which she strove in
vain to disguise, appeared in her whole manner. He was entirely occupied with me, and did not
perceive the storm which was gathering; not having been able to speak with me alone on that
day, he had written to me, and while pretending to play with my work basket, he slipped a note
into it. The princess saw it, and as soon as he had gone, seized upon the fatal note, which
was addressed to: 'My well beloved.'

I can never describe her anger and indignation. How did I ever live through that horrible scene!...

'Your intrigues,' she cried, 'will never succeed in my house; you are the horror, the shame,
and the ignominy of your family, and you shall not disgrace my mansion. I have already taken
measures to put an end to your infamous conduct; here is a copy of the letter sent by me this
morning to the minister, Bruhl. I tell him that honor is dearer and more sacred to me than
all family ties, that an ambitious hope will never induce me to renounce the duties which it
imposes upon me, and that I now esteem it my duty to inform him that the prince royal loves
Frances Krasinska. I conjure the minister to do all in his power to end this intrigue while
there is yet time. I will prove that I have nothing to do with this abomination, and that if
I have been in fault, it was because I placed such implicit confidence in my niece's virtue.
Yes--the king himself, at this very moment, probably knows the whole extent of your shame and
your insane pride.'

'The king!' I cried, almost out of my senses, 'the king! Ah! Let no one tell him that I am
the prince royal's wife; let no one tell him that, or I shall die at your feet!'

Lost to all memory, all sense, except that of the fearful abyss just opened before me, I thus
confessed the secret which no personal invective or humiliation could have drawn from me.

'How?' she replied, 'the wife of the prince royal! You! his wife!'

This word recalled me to myself, and led me to comprehend the enormity of my fault. I shuddered
when I thought of the prince's anger, and I saw but one chance for safety, and that was by
confessing all to the princess.

I fell at her feet, imploring, her to forgive the past, and keep our secret. Whether she was
offended by the tardiness of my confession, or whether she thought she had gone too far to
retrace her steps, I know not, but she remained implacable, and with cold and repulsive dignity
commanded me to rise, saying:

'So great a lady should never be found at any one's feet, and I offer you a thousand apologies
for my conduct toward you.'

I attempted to kiss her hand, but she withdrew it, and ended by saying that her house was unworthy
of a lady of my quality, of a princess royal, of an independent duchess, of the future Queen
of Poland. She then made all the preparations necessary for my departure.

I retained strength enough to control my feelings, for which I thank God: a momentary flash
of anger did not cause me to forget so many proofs of kindness and affection, and, with the
docility of a girl of sixteen, I prepared to depart, although I was entirely ignorant where
I should go to, or who would offer me protection and an asylum.... I believe the word Sulgostow
was uttered either by myself or by the princess. The valet who came to take the princess's
orders during the latter part of our conversation, mentioned throughout the mansion that I
was going to Sulgostow to pass the Christmas holidays.

Chance decided my fate, and, incapable of forming any resolution, I was happy in permitting
myself to be guided by others. Before I left, I wrote a long letter to the prince royal, which
I confided to the princess. In less than two hours all my arrangements were made; I came and
went, I acted mechanically, without fixed thought or purpose; I was finally placed in the carriage
with my lady companion, and the horses bore us rapidly away from Warsaw.

When I beheld the walls of Sulgostow, I began to think upon how I could best acquaint my sister
with these incredible events; but once in her presence, my confusion was such that I lost the
power of measuring my words, and hence she fancied I had gone mad....

Now that all has been explained, we laugh together over this strange mistake, but such laughter
is only a momentary forgetfulness of my position, and a passing truce to my torment. These
first two days have been most painful, for I have as yet heard nothing from the prince royal.
I cannot express my grief and my anguish; my health must be very strong not to have suffered
more from such torments.... At least, may I not hope that my dreams of bliss will one day be
realized?

THE GREAT STRUGGLE.

Is it true that 'our democratic institutions are now on trial?' Everybody, or nearly everybody,
says so. The London Times says so, and is or has been gloating over their failure. Many of
our 'able editors' say so, and are trying desperately to prove that they will not fail. Thus,
while there is a wide difference in opinion as to what may be the result, there seems to be
a quite general agreement as to the fact that the trial is going on. There appears to be no
suspicion that the question is not properly stated. Doubtless the assertion will excite surprise,
if heeded at all, that in fact the great struggle here and now is not between aristocracy or
despotism on the one hand, and democracy on the other. Most people in the United States have
come to entertain the fixed idea that the only natural political antagonisms are democratic
as opposed to despotic in any and all shapes. And this idea has become so ingrained in the
American mind that it will be difficult to gain credence for the assertion that the terms constitutionalism
and absolutism represent the forces or systems which, have really been antagonistic ever since
Christianity began to affect and animate social and political relations.

It may be a new idea to many readers that absolutism can be democratic, as well as aristocratic
or autocratic. Yet such is the fact, and the whole history of Greece and Rome proves it. Plato,
the friend of the people, taught the absolute power of the state--of the power holder, whoever
that might be, whether the people, the aristocracy, the triumvirate, the archon, or the consul.
It was not possible for Plato, Demosthenes, or Cicero, to conceive the idea of constitutionalism.

Wherever the will of the power holder operates directly upon the subject or object, there is
absolutism. Interpose a medium between the two, separate the law maker from the law executor,
make both the subjects or servants of the law, and then, if the people are virtuous, you can
harmonize private liberty with public order. The individual must not be absorbed by the state;
individual liberty must not be merged in absolutism. Nor must the state go down before individualism.

The problem is to render possible and reconcile the coexistence of the largest private liberty
and the highest public authority. This implies the idea of mediation. There must be mediatizing
institutions standing between the state and the individual, insuring the safe transmission
of power, and guaranteeing justice between the state and individuals, as well as between individuals
in their relations with each other. This done, you realize or actualize the grand idea of mediation
in the political relations of men. The distinguishing idea of Christianity--the God-man reconciling
man with God, and thus harmonizing the finite with the infinite--this idea must actualize itself
in the affairs of men, in order to harmonize perfect liberty with salutary authority. Animated
by this idea, penetrated with profoundest belief of the infinite worth of the individual man
because the God-man had wonderfully renewed his nature, the early Christian heroes and martyrs
took hold of the hostile and disorganized elements of European society--the fragments of the
Roman empire on the one hand, and the barbarians of the north on the other--and brought order
out of chaos. They re-organized society by naturally, though slowly, developing those numerous
intermediary institutions--guilds, corporations, trial by jury, the judiciary, and representation
of interests, orders, guilds and corporations, not of individual heads, in Parliament--all
which, as a living, harmonious system, constitute, or did constitute, the English Constitution,
and were essentially reproduced in the Constitution of the United States, and which wonderfully
distinguish constitutionalism from absolutism.

'The will of the emperor has the force of law,' was the fundamental maxim of the civil law.
Emperor, imperator;--hence, imperialism, Cæsarism, absolutism. That maxim obtained with pagans--civilized
it may be, but none the less pagans--whose theory or gospel was that 'man is his own end.'
Man's infinite moral worth as man, was not known or not recognized in the pagan civilization
of the classic Greeks and Romans. Hence the state, which outlived the individual, was of more
importance than the individual, and naturally absorbed the individual. Man being his own end,
and existence being next to impossible without society, the state was the best means to obtain
his end, and therefore Plato taught that man lives for the state, must be trained up for the
state, belongs to the state, and is of no value outside of the state. Hence the pagan civilization
of Greece and Rome, being intensely human, while it became very splendid and refined, became
also, and could not help becoming intensely and unutterably corrupt--so corrupt that St. Paul
refrained from finishing the disgusting catalogue of its awful sins and vices. The church,
Christianity, could save man, but it could not save the empire. The principle of social harmony
being lost, government and society fell to pieces.

On a certain memorable occasion, the present Emperor of France uttered the mystic phrase: The
empire is peace! So it is. But how? I answer: Several centuries of Godless French statesmanship--engineered
by men who, though nominal Christians or Catholics, discarded God in affairs of state, and
attempted to rule without God in the world, except to use Him (pardon the expression) as a
sort of scarecrow for the 'lower orders'--resulted in gradually drying up those intermediary
institutions which had served at once to develop a manly civic life and to protect private
liberty, and in reabsorbing and concentrating all power in the central government. Even in
the early part of these centuries, Louis the Fourteenth made his boast, 'I am the state,' and
thereby announced the substantial reinauguration of pagan imperialism or absolutism. His successors,
aided by the ever-growing influence of the renaissance, which was but the revivification of
classic paganism, continued his system, and when at last their cruel, inhuman, and unchristian
oppressions drove men to the assertion of their rights in the fierce whirlwind of the French
Revolution, that very assertion, 'clad in hell fire,' as Carlyle says, was based on the self-same
fundamental principle that 'man is his own end.' The Revolution also ignored the divine idea,
and failed. The subsequent revolutions, and especially that of 1848, were no wiser. The last
was simply the triumph of democratic absolutism by universal suffrage, in place of autocratic
or monarchic absolutism, as De Tocqueville clearly demonstrated in his 'Ancient Regime and
the Revolution.' De Tocqueville had thoroughly mastered the constitutional system, as had also
Lacordaire and Montalembert, and he, as well as they, joined the so-called republican movement
of 1848, hoping that constitutionalism would triumph at last. But he soon saw that European
Democrats or Red Republicans did not comprehend the idea;--that, in fact, they meant absolutism,
though democratic; and he retired in disappointment, though calm hopefulness, to his estate,
and there wrote his 'Ancient Regime.'

True, the Red Republicans issued high-sounding phrases about liberty, rights of man, and the
right of the people to govern. But they meant rights of man independent of God, and the right
of the people to be absolute; and they continued the system of centralism, or government by
bureaucracy, without God. The French have learned by sad experience that there is a thousand
times more danger of change, turbulence, and disruption, under democratic absolutism than under
autocratic absolutism. Louis Napoleon knows it well, and hence his significant phrase, 'The
empire is peace.' It is the strong iron band around a mass of antagonistic atoms, which have
lost, at least in the sphere of politics, the cohesive principle of harmony: union with each
other by virtue of union with the God-man.

Through all the terrific scenes of turbulence and carnage, the frequent dynastic changes, and
the fearful scourgings of the French empire since the days of Louis the Fourteenth, the nation
itself has not been destroyed, because, after all, there was and is a vast deal of virtue in
the people as individuals. God never destroyed a nation for its public or national sins until
the people themselves had become individually thoroughly corrupt. The city of Sodom itself
would have been spared had even five good men been found therein. And so the French nation
does not go to pieces, as the Roman empire did, because, notwithstanding the vice of Paris,
of which we hear and read so much, and the godlessness of French statesmanship and French literature,
the great body of the people, even in Paris, still retain their integrity, and a wholesome
fear of God. But because their current literature is heathenish, and their statesmanship has
ignored honesty and the divine origin of man's rights, those intermediary institutions, which
were developed by Christian charity from the idea that man's rights are sacred because God-given
and dignified by the God-man, have been undermined or disanimated, and it has come to pass
that the only government possible, where the divine idea is eliminated from politics, is one
in the form of absolutism. How long this form will continue in France remains to be seen. But
it is certain that European Democrats or Red Republicans, with their ideas--or rather lack
of ideas--will never comprehend the constitutional system, and will never rehabilitate or reanimate
those intermediary municipal institutions, the monuments of which De Tocqueville was surprised
to find scattered so generally through continental Europe, as well as in England and in New
England.

Turning, now, to the United States, it is plainly evident that the whole tendency of our politics,
intensely accelerated by the influence of Jefferson's French views, has been, first, to lose
out of mind the true significance of those intermediary institutions embodied in the common
law of England, and inherited by us from the mother country; and, secondly, to depreciate them
as standing in the way of the people's will, or popular sovereignty; and, lastly, to break
them down entirely, and substitute for them the tyranny of an irresponsible majority, or democratic
absolutism. The persistent efforts to get rid of grand juries and trial by jury, to popularize
the judiciary, to make senatorial terms dependent on changing party majorities, to reduce the
representative to a mere deputy, and other similar schemes to bring about the direct unmediatized
operation of the popular will upon the subject, are all illustrations of this direful tendency.

Concurrently with, and greatly aiding this tendency, there has been a gradual decay of the
manly virtue that charactized our fathers. Men have become less conscientious in the performance
of their public duties, and more regardless of private rights. A genuine manly self-respect
implies sincere respect for the rights of others, and both inevitably decay as the fear of
God dies out. When men continually act on the idea that man is his own end, and when each one
is intensely engaged in seeking his own interest, what can result but jarring of interests,
opposition, repulsion, disregard of law in so far as it clashes with private ends, and thus,
finally, social and political disruption more or less extensive? Thus our trouble lies deeper
than slavery. Remove the canker of slavery to-day, and yet the tendency to disruption and dissolution
would evermore go on while prevailing ideas actuated society. The remorseless mill of selfishness
would keep on grinding, grinding, grinding toward dissolution. Look at our literature, our
architecture, our science, our political and moral theories, our social arrangements generally,
and especially our hideous, almost diabolical arrangements or lack of arrangements for the
care of the poor and the unfortunate, and what a confused jumble they present! Having no grand
animating idea, no all-pervading principle of harmony, no universally recognized standard for
anything, we are necessarily the most anomalous, amorphous, helter-skelter aggregation of independent
and antagonistic individualities ever gathered together since nations began to exist. What
can prevent such an agglomeration from falling to pieces? What can hold it together?

Thus, with the frightful decay of Christian, and even manly virtue--alas! too plainly visible
all around us--and the entire divorcement of morality or religious ideas from politics, what
fate is in store for us but the inevitable triumph of anarchy, and through it of despotism?
Herein lies our real danger. The great struggle is not, as many assert, between aristocracy,
or monarchy, or despotism and democracy. But it is between despotism or absolutism and constitutionalism.
It is the struggle of the pagan system (revived by the renaissance), based on the idea that
'man is his own end,' with the Christian system based on the idea of mediation, involving the
idea that the true end of man is God. It is not true, therefore, that democratic institutions
are now on trial in the United States. Democracy, pure and simple, precisely in the form it
is assuming or has assumed in this country, was tried long ago. It was tried in ancient Greece,
and found wanting. It was tried in Rome, and ended in the dissolution of the empire. And in
both these trials it had, to begin with, a much more highly finished, fresh, robust, and whole-souled
manhood to work with and to work upon than that of modern democracy. More recently it was tried
in France, and for the present is blooming in the despotism of Napoleon III.

The question, then, I repeat, is whether constitutionalism, as originally developed in England
and embodied and reproduced by our fathers--who, perhaps, 'builded wiser than they knew'--can
come safely through this crisis and triumph over the two ideas which, thus far, have predominated
in the American mind, and driven us with fearful strides toward absolutism. 'Every man for
himself' is the first idea. In the family, in church, in politics, in commerce, in all social
and political relations, every man striving, pushing, scrambling, straining every nerve to
advance himself, regardless of his neighbor or the public interest--such everywhere is the
confused and hideous picture of American society. Selfishness predominates, and selfishness
is repellant. So it was before the ages were, when Lucifer, in the pride of self, refused obedience
to the Word. So it is even yet, and its inevitable tendency is to hostile isolation and final
dissolution. Its logical consequence is anarchy. But anarchy is intolerable, and a civilized
people, yea, even barbarians, will submit to anything rather than social and political chaos.
Then comes the iron band of despotism to hold together the antagonistic fragments.

'The supremacy of the people's will' is the second idea. Vox Populi, vox Dei! What the people
decree is right, and nothing must stand between their will and the subject or object upon which
it operates! Such is the political gospel according to democracy, and fifty years' earnest
proclamation thereof has wellnigh abolished all the barriers of constitutionalism--barriers,
which stood like faithful guardians, stern but just, between the Individual and the State,
which reconciled the harmonious coexistence of private liberty and public power--an idea wholly
unknown in pagan or classic civilization--and which at once prevented the anarchy of individualism
and the tyranny of absolutism. But true it is, whatever a people constantly assert they come
to believe, and whatever they believe will at last crystallize itself in action. And thus,
with the oft-repeated and ever-increasing assertion that 'man is his own end,' and 'is sufficient
unto himself,' and with that other assertion that the will of the people is law and must act
directly upon its object, we have gradually lost out of mind the true significance of the constitutional
system. Those numberless intermediary institutions--which logically grew out of the Christian
idea of mediation, as the oak naturally grows out of the acorn, and which wonderfully reconciled
liberty with authority, freedom with order, the finite with the infinite--have become more
and more obsolete, and less and less understood. They have crumbled away like the stately columns
of a magnificent but neglected cathedral. They have become dead branches that must be lopped
off. They are rubbish that must be removed--relics of monarchy or aristocracy, cunningly devised
inventions of priestcraft or kingcraft, that retard the triumph of democracy.

If the will of the people is supreme, then away with your high and life-long judges, or at
least let them be elected by the people and for very brief terms. Let grand juries be voted
a humbug, and trial by jury a nuisance. Let electoral colleges be abolished as meaningless
and cumbersome anomalies. Let the President be the direct representative of a mighty people,
and act without let or hindrance--only let him act with gigantic energy and swift execution.
Let senatorial terms be dependent upon changing legislative majorities. In fact, let the two
legislative houses, as being wholly useless and very expensive, be reduced to one. Let the
representative be a tongue-bound deputy, and not a free, manly, self-acting agent. Let county
boards of supervisors give way to the one man power of the county judge. And, in short, let
us go on, as we have been going on, democratizing or popularising our institutions, 'improving,'
or rather impairing and tearing down one after another of the venerable columns of the original
system, until every safeguard of personal freedom is removed, and there shall be nothing left
to restrain the giant sway of unmitigated and unmediatized public power. Then we shall have
despotism or absolutism, pure and simple--and none the less so because it shall be democratic.

The London Times will have nothing to jubilate over if what it mistakenly calls our 'trial
of democratic institutions' shall be unsuccessful. For in fact, our constitutional system was
but the reproduction, in a broader field and on a grander scale, of the British Constitution,
in all its essential features, differing only in what philosophic historians call 'accidentals.'
And if that system finally fails here, The Times may have a 'most comfortable assurance' that
it will fail in England. True, we have more rapidly departed from and defaced that system than
the English, chiefly because, in escaping from the fogs of England, we left behind us that
stolid conservatism, that bulldog tenacity for the old because it is old, which are instinctive
in the narrow-minded islanders. But they, just as much as we, have lost out of mind the significance
of the Christian idea. They, just as much as we, have become thoroughly paganized--have become
saturated with the central idea of pagan civilization, that man is his own end, lives for himself
alone, and not for God, and therefore is inferior to and must be the mere tool of the state.
If Americans hold that the state can make right, as well as enforce it, so do the English.
If divine sanctions have no longer any significance in America, so have they not in England.
If expediency, and not God's truth, is the universal rule of action here, so is it there. If
every American or 'Yankee' seeks his own end in his own way, regardless of his neighbor, his
Government, and his God, so does every Englishman. The Englishman has no God except his belly
or his purse. Years ago it was said by one of themselves, 'The hell of the English is--not
to make money,' If the divine principle of charity is a myth, and selfishness rages against
selfishness here, much more so with a people whose only God is Mammon. And finally, if inevitable
dissolution shall overtake us, and we rush into absolutism as a refuge from anarchy, we shall
have the melancholy pleasure--if it can be a pleasure--of hailing the almost simultaneous wreck
of the British Constitution, whose noble ruins, no less than ours, would be mournful monumental
witnesses to the glory of ages wiser and better than our own.

AMERICAN FINANCES AND RESOURCES.

In view of the fact that the people of the United Kingdom and of the United States are mainly
of the same race, speak the same language, have the same literature, ancestry, and common law,
with the same history for centuries, and a reciprocal commerce exceeding that of all the rest
of the world, it is amazing how little is known in each country of the other. This condition
of affairs is most unfavorable to the continuance of peace and good will between two great
and kindred nations. It causes constant misapprehension by each party of the acts and motives
of the other, arrests the development of friendly feeling, and retards the advance of commercial
freedom. It excites almost daily rumors of impending war, disturbing the course of trade, causing
large mercantile losses, and great unnecessary Government expenditures. If war has not ensued,
it has led to angry controversy and bitter recrimination. It is sowing broadcast in both countries
the seeds of international hatred, rendering England and America two hostile camps, frowning
mutual defiance; and, if not terminating in war, must, if not arrested, end in embargoes and
non-intercourse, or discriminating duties on imports and tonnage, greatly injurious to both
countries. I know it has become fashionable in England and America to sneer at the fact of
our common origin; but the great truth still exists, and is fraught with momentous consequences,
for good or evil, to both nations, and to mankind. The United States were colonized mainly
by the people of England. Ten of our original thirteen States bear English names, as do also
nearly all their counties, townships, cities, and villages.

Leaving to Englishmen the task of disabusing the Americans in regard to their own country,
I will endeavor to present, in a condensed form, some material and authentic facts as regards
the United States, for the consideration of the people of the United Kingdom. I read and hear
every day here predictions of our impending bankruptcy and national dissolution; our wealth
and resources depreciated; our cause, our people, our armies, and Government decried; and a
war in words and in the press prosecuted against us with vindictive fury. All this hostility
is fully reciprocated in America; and if the war is not confined to words and types, it will
not be the fault of agitators in both countries. So far as an American can, even in part, arrest
this fatal progress of misapprehension, by communicating information in regard to his own country,
is the principal purpose of these essays.

In answer to the daily predictions here of our impending ruin and national bankruptcy, I shall
first discuss the question of our wealth, resources, and material progress.

AREA.--The area of the United States, including lakes and rivers, is 3,250,000 square miles,
being larger than all Europe. (Rep. Sec. of Interior and of Com. of Gen. Land Office for Dec.
1860, p. 13.)

Our land surface is 3,010,370 square miles, being 1,926,636,000 acres. This area is compact
and contiguous, divided into States and Territories, united by lakes, rivers, canals, and railroads.
We have no colonies. Congress governs the nation by what the Constitution declares to be 'the
supreme law,' whilst local regulations are prescribed and administered by the several States
and Territories. We front on the two great oceans--the Atlantic and Pacific; extending from
the St. Lawrence and the lakes to the Gulf of Mexico, from near the 24th to the 49th parallel
of north latitude; and in longitude, from 67° 25' to 124° 40' west of Greenwich. Our location
on the globe as regards its land surface is central, and all within the temperate zone. We
have a far more fertile soil and genial sun, with longer and better seasons for crops and stock;
and already, in our infancy, with our vast products, feed and clothe many millions in Europe
and other continents. Last year our exports to foreign countries of breadstuffs and provisions,
from the loyal States alone, were of the value of $108,000,000. (Table of Com. and Nav. 1860.)

If as well cultivated as England, our country could much more than feed and clothe the whole
population of the world. If as densely settled as England, our population would be more than
twelve hundred millions, exceeding that of all the earth. If as densely settled as Massachusetts
(among the least fertile of all our States), we would number 513,000,000 inhabitants.

We have seen that our area exceeds that of Europe, with a far more genial sun and fertile soil,
and capable of yielding more than double the amount of agricultural products and of sustaining
more than twice the number of inhabitants. We have a greater extent of mines than all Europe,
especially of coal, iron, gold, silver, and quicksilver. Our coal alone, as stated by Sir William
Armstrong (the highest British authority), is 32 times as great as that of the United Kingdom,
and our iron will bear a similar proportion.

Our maritime front is 5,120 miles; but our whole coast line, including bays, sounds, and rivers,
up to the head of tide water, is 33,663 miles. (Ex. Doc. No. 7, pp. 75, 76, Official Report
of Professor A. D. Bache, Superintendent of U. S. Coast Survey, Dec. 5th, 1848.) Our own lake
shore line is 3,620 miles. (Top. Rep. ib. 77.)

The shore line of the Mississippi river above tide water and its tributaries, is 35,644 (ib.
77); and of all our other rivers, above tide water, is 49,857 miles, making in all 122,784
miles. Of this stupendous water mileage, more than one half is navigable by steam, employing
an interior steam tonnage exceeding that of all the internal steam tonnage of the rest of the
world. No country is arterialized by such a vast system of navigable streams, to have constructed
which as canals of equal capacity would have cost more than ten billions of dollars, and then
these canals would have been subjected to large tolls, the cost of their annual repairs would
have been enormous, and the interruption by lockage a serious obstacle. We may rest assured
then, that, all Europe combined, can never have such facilities for cheap water communication
as the United States. This is a mighty element in estimating the power and progress of a nation.
It shows, also, why we have no such deserts as Sahara, so small a portion of our lands requiring
manures or irrigation, and no general failures of crops, with so few even partial failures
of any one crop.

We have more deep, capacious, and safe harbors, accessible at all tides, than all Europe, with
more than twenty capable of receiving the Great Eastern. (Charts, U. S. Coast Survey.)

Our hydraulic power (including Niagara) far exceeds that of all Europe. We have more timber
than all Europe, including most varieties, useful and ornamental. We have, including cotton,
vastly more of the raw material for manufactures than all Europe. With all these vast natural
advantages, has man, in our country, performed his duty, in availing himself of the bounteous
gifts of Providence? We are considering now the question of our material progress, in regard
to which, the following official data are presented.

We have completed since 1790, 5,782 miles of canals, from 4 to 10 feet deep, and from 40 to
75 feet wide, costing $148,000,000, and mostly navigable by steam. (Census Table, 1860, No. 39.)

We have constructed since 1829, 33,698 miles of railroad (more than all the rest of the world),
costing $1,258,922,729. (Table 38, Census of 1860, and Addenda.)

We have in operation on the land, more miles of telegraph than all the world, a single route,
from New York to San Francisco, being 3,500 miles.

Our lighthouses exceed in number those of any other country, and we have no light-dues, as
in England.

Our coast survey, executed by Professor Bache, Superintendent of the U. S. Coast Survey, exceeds
in extent and accuracy that of any other country. On this subject, we have the united opinions
of British and Continental savans.

We have made since 1790, 1,505,454 linear miles of survey of the public lands of the United
States, belonging to the Government, including 460,000,000 of acres already divided into townships,
each six miles square (23,040 acres), subdivided into square miles, called sections, of 640
acres each, and each section further subdivided into 16 lots of 40 acres each.

TONNAGE.--The total tonnage of the United States was in--

        1814,      1,368,127 tons.
  June, 1851,      3,772,439  "
  June, 1861,      5,539,812  "

At the same rate of increase as from 1851 to 1861, our tonnage would be, in

  1871,        8,134,578 tons.
  1881,       11,952,817  "
  1891,       17,541,514  "
  1901,       25,758,948  "
       (Table of Com. and Nav.)

At the close of this century our tonnage then, at this rate of increase, would far exceed that
of all the rest of the world.

GOLD AND SILVER.--The aggregate product of our gold and silver mines approaches now one billion
of dollars, most of which has been converted into coin at our mint. Nearly all of this product
has been obtained since the discovery of gold in California. Less than two per cent. of the
precious metals has been the product of the seceded States. This gold and silver are found
now in seven States, and nine Territories; the yield is rapidly augmenting, and new discoveries
constantly developed.

The Secretary of the Interior estimates the total product 'next year,' of our mines of precious
metals, at '$100,000,000,' and when our railroad to the Pacific (traversing this region) is
completed, his estimate of the 'annual yield' is '$150,000,000.' The mines are declared 'inexhaustible'
by the highest authority, and our Nevada silver mines are now admitted to be 'the richest in
the world.' The completion of our imperial railroad, now progressing to the Pacific, will carry
an immense population to the gold and silver regions, vastly increase the number of miners,
diminish the cost of mining, and decrease the price of provisions and supplies to the laborers.
When we add to this, the vast and increasing product of our quicksilver mines of California,
so indispensable as an amalgam in producing gold and silver, as also the great and progressive
improvement in processes and machinery for working the quartz veins, it is now believed that
the estimates of our Secretary of the Interior, and Commissioner of the General Land Office,
will be exceeded by the result. These mines of the precious metals are nearly all on the public
lands of the United States; they are the property of the Federal Government, and their intrinsic
value exceeds our public debt.

PUBLIC LANDS.--The United States own an immense public domain, acquired by treaties with France,
Spain, and Mexico, and by compacts with States and Indian tribes.

Of this vast domain, less than two per cent. is cursed by slavery, which is prohibited by law
in eleven of these land States, and in all the Territories. What does Europe for any of its
toiling millions who reject this munificent offer? He is worked and taxed there to his utmost
endurance. 2s.

Of this vast domain (more than thirty-two times as large as England) the
Government of the United States grants substantially as a free gift, a
farm of 160 acres to every settler who will occupy and cultivate the
same, the title being in fee simple, and free from all rent whatsoever.
The settler may be native or European, a present or future
immigrant, including females as well as males, but must be at least
twenty-one years of age, or the head of a family. If an immigrant, the
declaration must first be made of an intention to become a citizen of
the United States, when the grant is immediately made, without waiting
for naturalization. When the children of the settler reach twenty-one
years of age, or become the head of a family, they each receive from the
Government a like donation of 160 acres. The intrinsic value of this
public domain far exceeds the whole public debt of the United States.    400,000  "   40,000,000
   3d    "    600,000  "   60,000,000
   4th   "    800,000  "   80,000,000
   5th   "  1,000,000  "  100,000,000
   6th   "  1,200,000  "  120,000,000
   7th   "  1,400,000  "  140,000,000
   8th   "  1,600,000  "  160,000,000
   9th   "  1,800,000  "  180,000,000
  10th   "  2,000,000  "

We have seen that, by the Census (p. 195), the total value of the real and personal estate
in the United States was, in--

  1860,     $16,159,616,068
  1850,       7,135,780,228

Increase from 1850 to 1860, 126.45 per cent.

At the same rate of increase, for the four succeeding decades, the result would be, in--

  1870,      $36,593,450,585
  1880,       82,865,868,849
  1890,      187,314,353,225
  1900,      423,330,438,288

If we subtract one fourth from the aggregate, we will find that our public debt constitutes
less than one half of one per cent. of the increase of our national wealth. This debt, then,
does not exhaust our capital, but effects only a small diminution of the rate of augmentation.

If we look at the causes of this vast increase of our national wealth, they will be found mainly
in the enormous extent of our fertile lands, the vast emigration from Europe, and the constant
addition of new States to the Union. Thus, from 1850 to 1860, four new States were added to
the Union. These four States were almost an untrodden wilderness in 1850, but in 1860 were
rich and flourishing States, with a population of 638,965, and an aggregate wealth of $331,809,418.
Within this decade, from 1860 to 1870, at least six new States will be added to the Union.
This is evident from a reference to our present Territories, as follows:

  Dacotah,        95,316,480 acres.
  Nebraska,       48,636,800   "
  Indian,         56,924,000   "
  Idaho,         208,878,720   "
  Washington,     44,796,160   "
  Nevada,         52,184,960   "
  Utah,           68,084,480   "
  Arizona,        80,730,240   "
  New Mexico,     77,568,640   "
  Colorado,       66,880,000   "
                 -----------
         Total,  800,000,480 acres.

Here then are Territories with an aggregate area of 800,000,480 acres, sufficient for twenty-six
States of the size of New York. In all these Territories but one, the precious metals are found
in great abundance, and the railroad to the Pacific, with numerous branches through this vast
region, together with the greatest advantages of our new Homestead Bill of last year, is settling
these Territories with unprecedented rapidity. Notwithstanding the war, immigration to the
United States is progressing with more than its usual volume, caused by the very high wages
for labor, the great benefits of our recent Homestead Bill, and the exclusion, by recent act
of Congress, of slavery from all this vast domain.

It will be observed, that, whilst the lands constituting these Territories remain public lands,
no estimate is made of them as wealth in the national census. It is only when these public
lands become farms and private property, that they are valued as part of the wealth of the
nation. This remark also applies to that 255,000,000 acres of public lands in the sixteen Land
States of the Union. Hence the amazing increase of wealth at each decade, in the new States
and Territories. Thus, by Table 35 of the Census of 1860, page 195, the rate of increase of
wealth in the following States and Territories, from 1850 to 1860, was:

Territories.

  Washington,     5,000 per cent.
  Nebraska,       4,800    "
  Utah,             467    "
  New Mexico,       302    "

States.

  Kansas,         8,000 per cent.
  Iowa,             942    "
  California,       837    "
  Minnesota,      6,000    "
  Michigan,         330    "
  Oregon,      471      per cent.
  Illinois,    457         "
  Wisconsin,   550         "

It is thus that the wave of population moves onward in our Western States and Territories,
that the axe and the plough are the pioneers of civilization, that farms, cities, and villages,
the schoolhouse, and the church, rise from the wilderness, as if by the touch of an enchanter's
wand. That enchantment is the power of freedom and education, the effect of which (as compared
with the deadly influence of slavery and ignorance) shall be illustrated in a succeeding letter.
In that letter, by comparing the relative progress of our Free and Slave States, as demonstrated
by our Census, it will be proved, incontestably, that the total exclusion of slavery from our
Union will cause an addition to our national wealth vastly exceeding the whole public debt
of our country, and soon leave us much richer than before the rebellion.

                                                        R. J. WALKER.

THE DECLINE OF ENGLAND.

In Europe, two nations for almost a thousand years have contended for empire. England and France,
for the greater portion of that period, have waged war with each other. When not engaged in
actual hostilities, they have watched each other with jealous animosity--seeking by intrigue
and diplomatic schemes to thwart or defeat the designs which one or the other had formed for
national aggrandizement.

No one of Anglo-Saxon descent can peruse the histories of those countries, and not feel pride
in the valor and success which have distinguished his race. Twice the victorious banner of
England has fluttered in the gaze of Paris. Until a recent age, the French flag visited the
ocean only at the sufferance of England.

Whatever may be thought of the wisdom of the continental policy of England since 1688--in pursuance
of which she has persistently sought to defeat the ambition of France--no one can help admiring
the ability and indomitable courage she has displayed in the gratification of her national
antipathy. From the League of Augsburg, of 1687, to which she became a party, to the Treaty
of Utrecht, in 1713, she put forth herculean efforts to compel the relinquishment of the family
compact by Louis XIV. By that treaty, the darling project of that monarch to secure the crown
of Spain for a Bourbon, was forever abandoned by France. Elated with this triumph over her
adversary, throughout the eighteenth century England continued to pursue the same policy of
checking and defeating all the schemes of France for territorial acquisition. It mattered not
where; in whatever quarter of the globe France sought to plant her standard, she always found
there an English enemy. In Asia, Africa, and America, as well as in Europe, all her attempts
to extend her empire were defeated by England. Pondicherry was the only East Indian possession
which the genius of Clive allowed her to retain. By the Treaty of Paris, of 1763, she was compelled
to relinquish Canada in order to regain her West Indian islands conquered by England.[4]

Vainly, under good or bad, weak or potent sovereigns, did France attempt the enlargement of
her empire or an increase of national power. England, on one pretence or another, always confronted
her, and by successful war, or unscrupulous diplomacy, baffled her designs.

The English mind was cultivated throughout the eighteenth century into the belief that every
accession to France was a menace and an injury to England.

At last the French Revolution, inspiring with preternatural energy that gallant people, turned
the tide of events so long adverse to French aggrandizement. Still true to her hereditary hostility,
England combined all Europe to resist the aggression of republican France. But soon, from the
raging elements of that awful convulsion, the 'Man of Destiny' arose, who could 'ride the whirlwind
and direct the storm.' He seized the helm, evoked order from chaos, and smote the enemies of
France wherever they appeared, revived the splendors of her early history, and, like her mediæval
Charlemagne, gave the law to Europe.

England took the measure of Napoleon, and recognized in him an enemy whom she must subdue at
any cost, or submit to be reduced in the scale of nations to that importance and those proportions
befitting her diminutive territory in Europe.

The battle of Marengo--the Peace of Luneville--the ascendency of Napoleon on the continent--the
defection of the continental allies of England--and the preparations of Napoleon for her invasion,
led to the Treaty of Amiens.

That treaty, however, was only a brief truce, which England never designed to observe but temporarily.
She refused to respect its obligations, and even to negotiate for its modification. She feared
that peace would enable Napoleon to rebuild his shattered navy.

Lord Hawkesbury's note of March 15th, 1803, assigned as her avowed reason for the renewal of
the war--'the acquisition made by France in various quarters, particularly in Italy, and therefore
England would be justified in claiming equivalents for these acquisitions as a counterpoise
to the augmentation of the power of France.'[5]

This note of Lord Hawkesbury avows distinctly the spirit of the foreign policy of England for
the last two hundred years. She would not tolerate any acquisition by her rival unless she
obtained 'equivalents.' In pursuance of this unchangeable policy, she again declared war against
France. Mr. Pitt resumed his position of prime minister, and soon formed a new continental
coalition to resist the mighty power and the aggressions of the French emperor.

Thenceforward she listened to no overtures for peace, but prosecuted with implacable resentment
the war--until she finally prostrated her imperial foe, and became his inglorious jailer, until
death relieved her from all apprehensions of danger.

But this triumph of a vindictive policy, so gratifying to the national antipathy, was purchased
at a price perhaps far exceeding its value.

The overthrow of Napoleon was an achievement which compelled England to anticipate the resources
of future generations. These generations have come, and are coming, and they find themselves
unable any longer to contend with French ambition.

The first Napoleon, whom England fought with such relentless animosity, won his throne by the
display of matchless ability in the field and the cabinet. The present Napoleon reached his
throne by perjury, assassination, and crimes of the blackest atrocity. The first Napoleon England
pursued with her hatred to his grave. The present Napoleon, reeking with the blood of his unarmed
fellow citizens, kisses the queen of England, and the entente cordial with him becomes the
foreign policy of England. Entangled in his toils, she makes war on Russia as his ally, stands
silently while he humbles Austria and changes the map of Europe, and barely escapes by an afterthought
being dragged into an attempt to destroy a free republic in America, to enable France to augment
the area for the expansion of the Latin race at the expense of that of the Anglo-Saxon.

What would the great Chatham and his son--who so long moulded the destiny of Europe--say, if
they could revisit the earth and peruse the history of their country for the last twelve years?
Would they recognize her as that England who in their hands smote the house of Bourbon, and
inaugurated the policy which led to the overthrow of the greatest captain who ever tormented
with his lust for glory the human race? Certainly, in all the wars which England waged against
the house of Bourbon, France never attempted a conquest of greater value than that which the
present Napoleon has commenced in Mexico. Certainly, no conquest which the first Napoleon ever
threatened in Europe would have so strengthened France as would the annexation of Mexico to
her dominions. But England has expended in her wars with the first Napoleon, to restrain him
from acquisitions which could not have materially injured England, all her resources for war.
She is not in the condition to wage such wars with France as she prosecuted during the last
and the beginning of the present century. She knows that she must acquiesce in the ambitious
acquisitions of the present Napoleon, or else encounter his hostility. Cherbourg and the steam
navy of France render an invasion of the British Isles a more practicable achievement for the
present Napoleon than ever the first Napoleon could hope for. England shrinks, therefore, from
any effort to curb the present aggrandizement of France, from fear. She ignominiously renounces
and abandons the policy of her monarchy, her aristocracy, and her people--pursued for two hundred
years with unfaltering pertinacity; not because she condemns it, not because she does not feel
'justified' in resisting French acquisitions unless 'equivalents for these acquisitions as
a counterpoise to the augmentation of the power of France' are obtained; but obviously, because
she fears to encounter the arms of the present Napoleon.

When the French emperor forced upon the acceptance of Lord Aberdeen's cabinet 'the harsh and
insulting scheme of action' (as Kinglake calls it) which provoked the war with Russia in 1854,
England's dilemma was: a war with Nicholas, or a rupture with France. 'The negotiation which
had seemed to be almost ripe for a settlement was then ruined.'[6]

A war for Napoleon at that time with one of the great powers, was a necessity. It was necessary
for the stability of his throne. It was necessary to prevent the thoughts of France from dwelling
upon the assassination of the republic and her own infamy in submitting to that enormous villany.
If it had not been Russia, it would have been England that the imperial usurper would have
denounced as disturbing the waters for his provocation.

Mellowed by time, and enlightened by their deplorable results, England now views the wars with
Napoleon the First in their true light. So far from British power having been augmented by
that tremendous struggle, it has compelled England to descend from the position of a first-rate
to that of a second-rate power, so far as it concerns the politics of Europe. Had the first
Napoleon survived to this day, she would hardly have consented to act with the same subserviency
to him as she now voluntarily acts toward his ignoble counterfeit. She would never have stood
an idle spectator of the humiliation of Austria by him. She would never have permitted him
to betray her into the causeless and ridiculous war with her ancient ally Russia. It was the
aid of Russia which enabled her to overthrow the great Napoleon, and now she permits the little
Napoleon to bully her into a war with Russia that he may bedizen his name with the glory of
a conflict with the conqueror of his illustrious kinsman.

If the object of Napoleon was so ignominious, contemptible, and criminal, as we know it to
have been, in producing the war of 1854, with what obloquy must England be covered for allowing
herself to be beguiled into such a war by such a juggler?

The pretended cause of the Crimean war, as alleged, was the threatened invasion of Turkey by
Nicholas. But what injury was that to England, compared to the seizure of Mexico by France?

England had not for two hundred years made it the chief object of her foreign policy to resist
the expansion of the Russian empire. She had acquiesced in the partition of Poland, and by
the Treaty of Vienna made herself a party to that nefarious spoliation by Russia, Austria,
and Prussia. She knew that Austria, Prussia, and the German Confederation were pledged to protect
Turkey from Russia.[7] Her subserviency to France in separately with her making war on Russia,
upon the pretence of the protection of Turkey, was supererogatory as well as needless.

The truth is, and so will history make up the record, the French emperor desired to humiliate
England, and England dare not refuse to be humiliated by him. It was a 'GREAT SURRENDER.'[8]

It will not do for England to excuse herself for not resisting the French invasion of Mexico
by any such allegation as that she has received Napoleon's assurances that he does not intend
to make a French province of Mexico. She must know, that no confidence can be placed in his
veracity. She must know, that such assurances are but a flimsy veil to deceive her and other
nations. They are designed to meet the contingency--of Federal success in crushing rebellion.

He has been willing to be fooled by those who surround him, into the belief that the rebels
will achieve their independence.[9] In that event, he will never relinquish his grasp on Mexico,
unless compelled to do so by force of arms. Should the rebellion succeed, as he professes to
believe it will, his instrument and accomplice, Maximilian, will be discarded with as little
ceremony as the first Napoleon discarded some of the puppet kings whom he saw proper to crown
and discrown according to the exigency of his occasions.

The treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle (1748) terminated one of the wars of
England with Louis XIV. The renunciation by France of the cause of the
Pretender was the most material advantage accruing to England from that
treaty. But the ink was hardly dry with which it was written, before
England took umbrage at France for efforts to rebuild her navy, which
had been seriously reduced and crippled by the events of the previous
war, and also for the encroachments of the French in Canada on the
English settlements. For these causes the Seven Years' War was
commenced, and, under the auspices of the first William Pitt,
successfully prosecuted, until France was completely humbled. Now,
however, Napoleon the Third constructs a navy more powerful than France
ever before possessed, and, instead of molesting some obscure English
settlement in the interior of America, appropriates to himself a great
country, fertile in resources, with mines of incalculable wealth, and in
close proximity to English colonies, cherished by the most vigilant
protection of England. The return on an
     average of Great Britain is not more than nine to one. If due
     weight be given to these extraordinary facts, it will not appear
     extravagant to assert that Mexico, with a territory embracing seven
     times the whole area of France, may at some future and possibly not
     remote period contain two hundred millions of inhabitants.'

This is the magnificent empire which France now seeks to conquer, without a murmur of remonstrance
from Great Britain, who so often combined Europe to resist the petty acquisition by France
of territory less than one of the Mexican States.

It is needless to say that England relies on the United States to prevent Mexico becoming a
French province. Her statesmen have for the past two years professed the belief that the dismemberment
of the United States is inevitable. In that event, they must know that the United States would
prove no obstacle to the occupation of Mexico by France. No; the acquiescence of England in
this gigantic acquisition of France can be ascribed to no such assurance of the power of the
United States. It may be said that she has flattered herself that by letting alone Napoleon,
he may possibly, by an alliance with the rebels, secure the permanent dissolution of the American
Union;--that the United States, if successful in crushing the rebellion, would be to her a
greater terror than Napoleon. We do not believe that she is influenced by such considerations.
She knows that the United States, however powerful by the recent development of military strength,
would hardly attempt the invasion of the British Islands. But she has no such faith in her
crafty neighbor. She knows that France and the Bonapartes owe her a debt of vengeance which
only the ravage and desolation of the British soil will ever liquidate. She remembers that
the favorite scheme of Napoleon the First was the invasion of England; and she knows that this
scheme is among the Idées Napoléon of the nephew. She is aware, too, that Napoleon the Third
has the means at his command which will enable him to place any number of troops on her shores.
She is satisfied that upon the first provocation which she offers, he will gratify the treasured
hatred of the French and of his family, by consummating the darling project of his uncle. The
terror of invasion has induced her to change the nature of her foreign policy. She will cling
to the French alliance until the French emperor has satiated his national craving for her degradation;
and not until he strikes her a blow, which will resound throughout the world, will England
be prepared to battle with the Gaul. No future accession of territory would make France more
formidable for the invasion of England than she is now. Her army of five hundred thousand men,
and her steam navy and ironclads are all-sufficient for that purpose, whenever the French emperor
chooses so to employ them. But if Napoleon devotes this army and that navy to such a formidable
conquest as that of a country seven times as large as France, three thousand miles from her
shores, it is not probable that he will soon be able to spare them for the invasion of Great
Britain. Spain vainly struggled for years to conquer her revolted provinces in America. England
failed to conquer her rebellious colonies, with a population not exceeding three millions.
France lost an army of thirty-five thousand men, veterans of Moreau's, in the vain effort to
subdue the negroes of St. Domingo. England could desire no better scheme for the destruction
of the military strength of Napoleon than that of the attempted conquest of Mexico. She will
therefore rather stimulate than restrain the second French emperor in his desire to devote
his legions to the enlargement of the area for the supremacy of the Latin race in America.
Her motive will be the despicable safety of her shores from Gallic invasion. For this she sacrifices
her prestige in the world--her hereditary policy--the time-honored traditions of the Anglo-Saxon.
The world hereafter is free to the Frenchman, for robbery, spoliation, conquest, and invasion,
wherever else than in England he chooses to prosecute the vocation of national crime. England
is no longer the foe of French ambition or rapacity. So long as France will abstain from the
invasion of the 'inviolate isle,' where for almost a thousand years no foreign enemy has placed
his foot, so long she may be free from molestation from England, whatever else she may attempt;
and this is the inglorious policy of England in the year of our Lord 1862-'3.

TEMPTATION.

     [A literal translation of this remarkable prose-poem was kindly
     placed in our hands by Prof. Podbielski. It is allegorical
     throughout, every phase of its marvellous symbolism resting upon
     dire and tragic truth.

     The many times murdered Mother is of course Poland. We hope that
     the publication of this prophetic vision of her great son, patriot,
     poet, statesman, and sage, as he undoubtedly was, may excite a
     vivid interest at the present hour, when that heroic but unhappy
     country is again struggling for life and freedom.

     In its present English form, 'Temptation' is reverently dedicated
     to the patriot sons of the Mother of heroes, by MARTHA W.
     COOK.]

  Alas, crimsoned with blood and swollen with tears run our troubled
      life-waves!
  From the depths and whirlpools of the stormful currents sounds the
      moan of eternal sorrow!
  Behind roars the bottomless abyss, black with the gloomy mists rising
      from the woes of the Past:
  Before lies the far-off Heaven, burning and blazing with flames red
      as of blood:
  Around struggle the swimmers, in surges so cold, hopeless,
      and murky,
  That from each as he floats onward is forced the cry; 'WOE! THE
      CURSE IS UPON ME!'

Mother, many times murdered! Unhappy mother! with the long and countless blades of thy ever-green
grasses, with the waving stems of thy grain fields, thou wilt bind our undying memories closely
to thee, but henceforth must thy sons wander and suffer, as they love thee. Behind them, from
sea to sea, is the Grave; before them, wheresoever they may roam, the Sun set; while monarchs
and merchants curse the endless progression!

The Living cannot understand those reared on the bosom of the Dead--human faces grow pale at
the approach of the spectres--at the echo of their footsteps the home-fires glimmer and flicker
low on the hearthstone--the mother hides her child--the wife leads away the husband that he
may not clasp hands with the wandering exile,--the evening star alone, the star of graves,
smiles from Heaven on them!

       *       *       *       *       *

Was not the silence of the forests holy? When the wind swept over the Pines, did not the mystic
murmurs, sacred as the prayers of the Priest, say to you: 'Nowhere there will you find your
God!' The spaces are filled with the giant skeletons torn from the dim woods; they are chained
and clamped with iron and fed with steam; the eagles soar not in the air above them, nor do
the glad birds twitter in the swaying branches; none among you may mount the strong horse of
the desert and fly afar over the boundless steppes, rejoicing in his arrowy swiftness;--you
are alone in the midst of the world!

       *       *       *       *       *

As you wander on, poor exiles, your very gratitude is half disdain! When they lead you into
cities without castles or temples, where trade and commerce rule; among whitewashed houses
where the spirit of Beauty is not, and the green window-shutters are the sole adornment--murmur
ye: THE DEAD!

       *       *       *       *       *

On the shores of the seas when you dwell with Jews, Armenians, and Greeks, quarrelling forever
over their vile profits; seeing not the heavens, nor hearing the thunder as it booms over the
waves--murmur ye: THE DEAD!

       *       *       *       *       *

When women in rich attire move around you, and you feel that the faint fluttering of the silken
robe is far more spiritual than the life-breath of their souls--murmur ye: THE DEAD!

       *       *       *       *       *

Float on, then, like the sacred whispers from the unhewn forests! The world will not know you,
because you are of the race sprung from coffins; born and cradled in coffins; but as you rise
from the grave, strew upon the ground beneath your feet the mouldering rags of your shrouds--and
he, seated on the verge of the abyss, on the steep and slippery declivity; he, robed in the
royal purple of power, will not survive your Resurrection--but must himself descend into the
coffin!

I saw imaged before me, as in a wondrous vision, the varied scenes and changes as it were of
a long life--rising, progressing, and vanishing, as if bound in a single day, beginning with
the morning and fleeting away with the evening shadows.

It seemed to me in my vision that the morning was strangely transparent. No clouds dulled the
ether above. Far over the wide green space rose the sun, and in front of the House on the Hill
stood a horse already saddled, impatiently wounding the velvety grass with his iron hoofs,
and snuffing with wide nostrils the fresh breeze from the valley. Near him stood his young
master. The light in his blue eye was bright as the young beam of the day. He had one foot
in the stirrup, and the other on the soft home-turf; with one hand caressing the long waving
mane of the steed, and the other clasped in the grasp of the man from whom he was taking leave--they
knew not for how long, but yet felt it was not forever. Words were pouring from the heart of
the one into the heart of the other. The elder, he who stood on the ground and was to move
on on foot, kept his gaze steadily fixed on the rocks and forests lying beyond the smooth green
turf. The younger, with raised eyes, gazed into the sky, as if absorbing its light in the blue
lustrous pupils; and when he spoke, his voice was like the fresh breath of spring. The elder
spoke more slowly, almost sternly, as though advising, warning, beseeching--as if he loved
deeply, yet doubted, feared; but the younger had no fear, no doubts--he pledged himself and
vowed--threw himself first into the arms of his friend, then leaped into his saddle. He pushed
his horse rapidly on, swift as the arrow skims the plain, or the mountain stream plunges below.
A cloud of servants poured forth from the halls of the ancient House, and followed their young
Lord.

He who remained behind, knelt; and fragments of his prayer were brought me by the wind, 'O
Heavenly Father! let not this blooming soul wither away upon this arid earth! Lead it not into
the temptation of human servitude; remove from it all sinful stain! Let it serve Thee alone!
Thee and the many times murdered Mother!'

He continued kneeling, although sunk in silence, as if wrapped in deep meditation, scarcely
knowing whether to indulge in the dim prophecies then surging his soul, or to prolong his prayers.
Then I saw him start, clasp his hands forcibly together--and again his words were borne to
me by the wind.

'O Heavenly Father! I ask Thee not to sweeten the bitter cup of life for my friend; I know
that all who live must suffer; but, O merciful God, spare him the blush of shame, the infamy
of weakness!'

Then I saw the Wanderer rise from his knees, descend the hill, and make his way on foot through
the forest to the distant rocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

About high noon of the same day they met again before the gate of a great city. The young man
was still on his horse, his fair brow already darkened by the heat of the sun; the dew from
the fresh home-turf was quite dry upon his stirrups, and the glitter of the steel dimmed with
rust. The horse gladly stopped, as if wearied with his rapid flight through the distant space,
but the blue eye of the youth still sparkled with its early fire.

The elder, gray from head to foot with the dust of the road, seated himself on a stone by the
wayside. The youth jumped lightly to the earth, and threw himself into the arms of his friend.
I saw him give his horse in charge to his servants, take the arm of his companion, enter the
gate of the great city, and lead him to the imperial Palace. In one of the inner chambers they
sat down together to rest. They conversed however in whispers, as if they feared the ear of
the enemy even through the massive stone walls. Stretching himself on the soft Persian carpet,
the younger raised the cup of wrought silver to his thirsty lip. But when he handed it to the
elder, he refused to taste the wine from the rich goblet. Nor would he look upon the tapestried
walls, or the objects of luxury lying profusely scattered around the room, even when pointed
out to him by his young companion. At last he rose, and taking the hand of the youth, led him
to a window, from which the entire city was seen lying below, with the moving crowds of the
populous nation. The immense city, wonderfully monotonous in its whitewashed walls! the immense
nation, wonderfully monotonous in its black garments! The young man looked on curiously; the
wanderer sighed, and said: 'When they shall lead you into cities without castles or temples,
where the spirit of freedom is chained, murmur ye: THE DEAD!'

But the younger continued to gaze with ever-growing interest. Carriages filled with women dressed
in brilliant hues were rapidly driving by, drawn by strong, fleet horses. He saw one drive
aside from the throng, the snowy veil and white draperies of the fair one within fluttering
and floating far on, the breeze, as if the flying chariot were borne onward by the outspread
sails. Heavy masses of lurid clouds gathered from every direction, and obscured the face of
the sky. How different the hour of the gloomy noon from that of the fresh, transparent morning!

The men before whom the People of the Black Nation kneel and prostrate themselves now began
to move through the streets. Their short garments glittered with gold, and were richly embroidered
in gorgeous colors. They wore long thin swords at their sides, and thick tufts of plumes on
their heads. Shouting with harsh voices, they passed on in power, striking the children who
were lingering in the road as they moved forward. The children cried and wept; the crowd drew
back and fled; and they remained alone upon the Great Square. More and more of them were ever
thronging there; more and more courteously they ever bowed to one another, and lower and lower
grew their salutes, until at last One rode forward on a steed richly caparisoned--and then
they all fell down with their faces upon the ground--as if he were the Lord of Life and Death.

Then said the Wanderer: 'He is already on the verge of the abyss, on the slope of the steep
and slippery declivity; he, robed in the purple of Power, must himself descend into the coffin!'

But the young man riveted his gaze on the magnificence of the rider, as if absorbing the diamond
glitter into the lustrous pupils of his eyes, as in the morning they had absorbed and reflected
the clear blue of the skies. He seemed not to hear the words of his friend. When they were
earnestly repeated to him, he covered his face with his hands, and tenderly uttered the holy
name of the murdered Mother, as if the love of childhood were upon his heart. The Wanderer
pressed him to his breast, and said: 'Look not upon them! Look not upon them!'

'Never! never!' he replied, as he again threw himself down to rest upon the Persian carpet.

As the Wanderer rose to depart, I heard the prayer again rising to God from his divining soul:

'O Heavenly Father! even at the burning noon of this bitter trial, I implore Thee for him whom
I love! O God! I now entreat Thee to work a miracle in his behalf--to sweeten the bitter cup
of life for this young, eager, thirsting soul! Deliver it from the temptations with which Thou
hast seen good to surround the strong on this earth, led like him into these snares! Let him
not fall, I beseech Thee, as did even the mighty and beautiful angels round Thy Throne, when
the thirst for power was upon them. Save him, O God!'

The young man remained alone, utterly alone, in the midst of the great city, and was soon forced
to seek companionship with his fellow beings. It was strange, meanwhile, how black the heavens
grew, as if the whole sky were sheeted with a curtain of lead. I saw him now constantly in
the streets, the rooms, and in the midst of the people: he fascinated my gaze as if I saw only
him. Under the calm of a tranquil face, he concealed bitter torment, intense suffering. Evil
thoughts are winding through him, like swarms of black and poisonous worms, while the good
are also thronging near him, like clouds of bright blue fireflies. The worms crawl over his
heart, boring and bleeding it as they writhe; the fireflies would burn out the black congested
gore, and cure the festering wounds, but new swarms of reptiles are forever sliming into life,
and ever deeper and more gangrened are the wounds they make. Everywhere danger, everywhere
torment; there is no human being whom he may trust! He too must learn to deceive in turn, to
betray even women and children; must learn to lie as the masterpiece of art. He attains skill
in the profession, and can command looks, smiles, tears, emotions; but alas! the light in his
clear eye, once rivalling the young beam of day, no longer flashes from his pupils. Pity him,
O God! his very garments become a lie; he throws aside the costume of his nation, in which
he once rode so freely over the boundless steppe. He mounts on his head the tall tufts of plumes;
he girds the thin sword to his side; and I saw in my dream that the people began to fall back
before him, and bow as he drew near.

But I saw that the steed of the desert refused to recognize his master when he entered the
courtyard of the Palace. In vain he pats, with his own hand, the wavy silken mane: no neigh
of joy now answers his caress; he strives to leap upon him as in the morning of this eventful
day, but the haughty charger rears, stands erect upon his hind legs, and refuses to be mounted.
Enraged beyond control, he thrusts his long sword into the glossy flanks. The startled animal
breaks away, spurns the blood-sprinkled soil, and flies thundering afar, rattling and clashing
his iron hoofs on the pavement, marking his track with a long line of glittering sparks, flashing
but to die in the dying light of evening!

The hour of twilight is already on the earth!

       *       *       *       *       *

Again, for the third time in that day of life, met the Wanderer and his friend. They stood
together in a Church, which was without the gates, and the cross on its towers was different
from those on the Basilicas within the walls of the city. The altar was without adornment,
and, as well as the walls and ceilings, was shrouded in the deepest mourning. Three tapers
only were upon it, and they struggled vainly with the surrounding gloom.

I saw the Wanderer take one of these lights, and gaze, with a look of woe, upon the face of
his friend. The young man was silent, he found no utterance, he had lost the secret of revealing,
by honest words, the depths of the soul. But the bitter truth was expressed in the long wild
cry which burst spasmodically from his lips. In it might be read the seduction and destruction
of a young spirit, not consenting to its own shame and ruin!

He laid his head on the strong shoulder of his friend, and closed his heavy eyelids, as if
he dreamed, in this trying moment, it would be possible for him thus to close them forever.
But the Wanderer, suddenly calling him back to consciousness, said: 'Follow me! follow me,
that thou mayst remember forever the Form of the murdered Mother!'

So saying, he led the young man to a low door which opened behind the Great Altar. A whirlwind,
as if from plains of ice, blew upon them from the subterranean passages below, and the flame
of the taper streamed upon the blast, swaying and torn into a line of dying sparks. And thus
they commenced the plunge into the very bosom of night, descending ever lower and lower, exploring
depth after depth, until at last they had worked their way through the narrow and winding passages,
and stood in the sublime silence of the immensity of space.

Their taper had long ago gone out, but they needed not its flickering light. The swamp-fires
of the night, the corpse-lights, the will-o'-the-wisps, sometimes fell like falling stars;
sometimes rose like rising moons. Countless cemeteries seemed moving on in this weird light,
one solemnly following the other, and on the dark gate of each glittered, as if graved in frosted
silver, the name of the Murdered Nation, and on the white crosses gleaming within, the names
of her martyred children. Vast piles of skeletons, of bones and skulls, lay in the path of
the young man, and as he advanced he read the glorious inscriptions.

It now seemed to him that the ghosts of the buried were also moving on before him, increasing
constantly in number, and all moaning as they sped on, until at last they seemed to condense
into a murky vapor like a trailing storm-cloud, growing ever more and more pervading, and murmuring
with thousands upon thousands of sad, but spirit-stirring national songs. The air gleamed with
the flashing of sabres and wild waving of standards; conflagrations and flames filled the intervening
spaces, like vivid flashes of restless lightning, now gleaming, now sinking into the bosom
of the cloud. Faster and faster, farther and farther whirls the cloud of spirits. Then in my
dream I saw them suddenly descend, driven over the earth like the withered leaves of autumn--beaten
low upon the ground and drifting on like the summer's dust--while a strong cry burst from the
driven shadows: 'O God, have mercy upon us!'

The Wanderer stopped before the gate of an open sepulchre, on which was graven the name of
the many times Murdered. The letters blazed with a soft lambent flame, and he fell reverently
upon his knees. Penetrated with mystic awe, he quivered from head to foot when he arose, and
wept tenderly as he crossed the threshold.

A soft light, like that of an evening late in autumn, dimly illumined the space within. I saw
the holy Coffin as it lay on the gentle slope of a hill; a giant Pine stood at its head, and
in its topmost branches perched the Eagle, pierced to the heart and sleeping in its own blood.
Within the coffin lay the sacred Form, with the cross on her breast, the veil on her face,
the fetters on her hands, and the crown upon her forehead. I saw six such hills rising one
after the other, separated from one another by the long grass, through which, in place of sunny
brooks, flowed crimson streams of human gore. Hilts and shivered fragments of broken swords,
overgrown with weeds and covered with rust, were lying scattered in every direction through
the rank grass. On each of the six hills lay the same Coffin; the same Form. But always more
and more strongly surged the streams of human blood; heavier and heavier grew the chains on
the hands of the Dead; and paler and paler the dim autumnal light. At the foot of the last
hill it was dark, and bitter cold; the currents of blood were frozen; the icicles hung from
the branches of the Pine; the Eagle lay in his congealed gore; and in place of the veil, the
face of the six times murdered Mother was closely covered with a sheet of snow.

When the young man reached this spot of gloom, he fell with his face upon the frozen earth,
and cursed his life! In the distance sounded the moans of the shadows left at the gate of the
sepulchre; he bowed his head and wept. He heard them ask: 'Is the six times Murdered really
dead? will she rise no more to deliver her faithful children from mortal anguish?'

The Wanderer replied not, but looked with eyes of melancholy love upon his friend who had thrown
himself upon the frozen earth, and gently raised him in his strong arms.

Then rose the wail of all the armies of the grave; they broke the silence of death with loud
and fearful cries: 'O Heavenly Father, Thou hast betrayed us! Thou hast delivered us up to
Hell, for our Saint is really dead!'

The Wanderer answered the cry, and his voice pealed like distant thunder. 'Blaspheme not! Our
Saint yet breathes! I see her lying in her last coffin on the hill of ice--there is no seventh
beyond it--from it comes the Resurrection!' The wails and sobs of the spirits suddenly ceased,
and a murmuring chant of the Mother's was entoned, low and sweet as the first sigh of a germing
hope.

The young man now perceived, for hitherto he had not seen it, the illimitable space beyond
the coffin. Afar over the infinite blue broke the growing splendor of the early dawn--the clash
and clamor of battles yet unborn broke through the veil of Time--and above it all he heard
the Mother's ancient hymn of victory!

The young dawn shone but for a moment, the clash of battle ceased, the song of triumph died
upon the ear--the gloomy silence of the twilight was again upon them, and frost and cold upon
the earth. The two friends reverently pressed their lips upon the still feet of the fettered
Form; together listened to the faint breathing from the icy lips, catching it even through
the veil of snow shrouding the sacred face; together they ascended the frozen hill, bowing
their heads in their hands to hide their tears.

I saw them again as they were returning by the same road, and overheard them binding themselves
with fearful oaths. The Wanderer took leave of the young man at the entrance of the church,
saying with wonderfully tender and conjuring tones: 'Be not deceived by those who would fain
ruin thy soul, and blot out thy name from the number of honorable sounds on earth! Remember,
whatsoever the splendor of the things thou shalt this night see, they are but deceptions from
the lowest Hell! Then placing his hand on the heart of the young man, he prayed: 'O Heavenly
Father! have mercy upon him and upon me, for if he withstands not this terrible Temptation,
Thou knowest we shall both have lived in vain, and our part on earth is done forever! After
this they parted, and went their way on different routes.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was already night in the great city. Innumerable throngs were crowding the streets, all
moving in the same direction, to the palace lighted with a thousand lamps, sounding with music,
and gay with the dance. Old and young, men and women thronged the brazen stairs leading to
the upper saloons; hurrying on as eagerly, as unceasingly as if ascending into Heaven!

The hours of the night passed slowly by, seeming longer to me than the whole of the preceding
day. It was almost one o'clock before I again saw the young man, and the traces of the oaths
he had taken were cunningly hidden under smiles. Groups of servants stood around him; he carelessly
threw them his cloak, and climbed with the rest the brazen stairs. He was richly dressed; the
magnificent guest was worthy of the splendor of the wedding feast. He entered gracefully, and
gazed curiously on the thousands who were dancing around him. His eyes fell upon the rich and
varied spoils overhanging the Hall; broken swords were wrought into the walls like mosaics;
the flags of the conquered nations were draped in their varied hues across the vaulted ceiling;
but as he looked on all these trophies of power, I saw him suddenly turn pale with rage, and
bite his lips until the blood followed the pressure of his teeth; but then the whirling crowds
caught him in their midst--violins, harps, flutes and horns poured the reeling air into his
dizzied brain--clouds of incense intoxicated his senses--piled and mossy carpets luxuriously
yielded to the pressure of his feet--rainbow hues shifted gayly before his dazzled eyes--until
giddy, fascinated, stimulated, he sank upon a pile of cushions, resting his hot temples in
his burning palms, dreaming of snowy hands and taper fingers, of azure eyes and cheeks like
rose leaves.

As he thus rested, I heard the bell heavily toll one; I felt that this long night was in its
darkest hour!

When he raised his eyes, he saw, through the long vista of the illuminated apartments, the
Throne of the Splendor of the Sun. It stood above the moving sea of dancers; upon it sat the
Autocrat of Life and Death; and above him waved the canopy of flags torn from the dying nations.
The young man started, for he saw one among them dyed in gore, and tattered into rags, and
from its torn streamers, drop by drop, the blood was ever falling; but no one saw or heeded
it save himself. When this sight fell upon his reeling gaze, he determined to repel with all
his force the allurements of temptation, and again his eye gleamed blue and pure as it had
done in the early morning.

A movement now began in the crowd. It dispersed, divided, and formed into long lines upon the
right and the left, leaving a wide, open pathway through the whole length of the long vista
of the apartments. The Lord of the Palace descended from his Throne, and moved through the
living walls as if he were a God, while all prostrated themselves as he passed along. He turned
not aside, but went directly to the spot where the young man was seated. Nearer and nearer
he approached, wondrously beautiful and strong. The young man rose and looked boldly into his
eyes. The Master of Life and Death did not frown upon him, but said gently: 'Come, let us take
a stroll together; I will show you the wonders of my Palace!'

The youth stood as if transfixed to the spot, but the Lord of Life and Death drew closer to
him, stooped and pressed a kiss on his brow, and led him away with easy grace.

Although he seemed to see the coffin of the murdered Mother ever winding on before him, the
young man accompanied the Monarch. His arm trembled with the quick beating of his boiling blood
as it lay on the hard one of the Autocrat, who, thunder as he might to the bowing throng prostrating
themselves before him, continued to speak in soft tones and with a noble, courteous air to
his present companion. He spoke of the past, he uttered without trembling even the name of
the murdered Mother, as if her assassination did not weigh upon his conscience. He did not
seem to have the least doubt that she was really dead, vanished forever from the face of the
earth. He artfully pointed out to the young man another immense future,[10] graven, as he said,
in the Book of Fate. He painted it in the most alluring colors, awakening his young desires
for its attainment; he spared no promises, and as if he held himself to be one of God's prophets,
he parodied inspiration. The unhappy young man turned his eyes toward the ground, away from
the handsome face, as though it had been that of Antichrist. Each word of the Tempter fell
like a drop of poison on his heart, engendering and hatching the worms within. They walked
together through the long ranges of apartments, the close ranks of men prostrating themselves
as they passed, until they struck with their foreheads the malachites wrought into the tessellated
floor.

When they arrived at the other end of the Palace, the gates of bronze upon the order of the
Master were suddenly thrown open, while the mass behind, lifting their heads from the ground,
looked enviously after them.

'Behold, this is my Treasury,' said the Monarch. 'Look, and have faith in the extent of my power!'

The young man looked before him. He was standing at the portals of deep mines of wealth, endlessly
extended. Alas! the glowing splendor from the hills and valleys burned into the blue eyes of
the young man; his pupils rapidly absorbed the molten torrents of gold and silver; circles
of light from amethyst, opal, and emerald, bent like rainbows round the azure orbs. The subterranean
flames roared and crackled; the hills were shaken to their centre; the caves were heaving in
their depths, and fresh, glittering, golden, diamantine lumps came ever gushing from the fused
and seething mass.

But strange sounds were ever and anon heard amidst the hissing and sputtering of the boiling
metals. Long cries came up as if from men in the agonies of death; a clatter as of chains sounded
from the abyss; muttered curses; and bent and wretched human figures were seen moving over
swards of diamonds and precious stones, like the dark stains passing athwart the bright face
of the moon. The eye of the Monarch then flamed with wrath. Sometimes clanging their chains
as they moved their fettered limbs, these melancholy figures raised to him their suppliant
hands, begging with anguished cries for one drop of water, for one moment of respite to breathe
the free air of heaven. He vouchsafed to them no answer, and with every moment the wretched
and emaciated shadows fell from utter exhaustion into the molten metals seething in the depths
of the mine. But what mattered that, since with every instant, new bands of living shadows,
equally fettered, doomed, and wretched, arrived to fill the vacant places? The young man thought
he had seen some of these melancholy faces before in the high places of the earth, that the
noble traits once had been dear to him, but the flashes of lightning blinded him, and the features
were rapidly lost in the depths of the succeeding gloom. The roar of the seething, fusing metals
deafened the sound of the groans from the chained and broken-hearted miners. And as I gazed,
an all-pervading splendor, like the golden calm of the Desert, settled over all, covering with
glittering veil the anguish which had been revealed.

As this light overflowed the scene with its brilliant haze, the gates of bronze clapped to
with heavy clang. The Master of Life and Death took leave of the young man, and as he departed,
said: When the great bell again strikes, be in the Hall of the Throne; thy seat at my Banquet
is next my own.

As the young man turned to move away, the throng greeted him with shouts and cheers. Many knelt
to kiss his hand, because it had touched the hand of the Master. They asked him what music
he would hear, and when his choice was made, the grand orchestra rolled it forth in massive
waves of sound. They bore him luscious wines in jewelled vases, kneeling as he took the cup.
He marvelled, and at first scorned the homage, but again I saw him look proudly round him,
and assume an air of command.

In a recess of the most exquisite beauty, veiled by groves of perfumed flowers, he meets resplendent
groups of married women, blooming clusters of budding maidens. They surround him as he enters,
greeting him with lovely smiles; and scattering rose leaves o'er him. His cheeks flame as with
fever; his blood boils in his veins; he grows giddy, faint:--alas, he feels at last that he
might find happiness in the Palace of the mortal enemy of his Mother! This feeling falls upon
him like a thunderbolt, and scathes his heart. He turns to fly, but they pursue, the perfumed
wind bearing onward and wafting around him the full drapery of their floating trains of luxury.
Their long ringlets kiss his cheeks, and weave their nets around him.

Through two long hours of this fitful night I watched him with the keenest interest. I saw
him struggle, confused, bewildered, reeling, giddy, dazzled, sometimes almost yielding to temptation,
sometimes earnestly imploring the Heavenly Father for strength to resist delusion. As if in
despair, I saw him hurrying through the long suite of apartments in search of a sword to pierce
his weak, vacillating heart, but no arms were here to be found. Sometimes I saw him rush to
meet the alluring Circes of the Palace, as if seeking their fascinations; then, suddenly turning
upon them, he would curse and insult the seductive Sirens. I saw him tear from them their veils
of snow, rend them asunder, and trample the costly fragments under his feet. They knelt, wept,
and humiliated themselves before him. They prayed for love, saying: 'Once, only once, we implore
thee, confess that thou lovest!' Utter madness came upon him; electric flashes fired his veins;
rapture tingled through every fibre of his young frame; and in the voluptuous delirium of the
moment he wildly cried: 'I love! I love!'

As he spake, he caught in his arms the Houri of the foreign race; he fastened his burning lips
upon her rosebud mouth; and by the magic of her breath she drew him on to the Hall of the Throne!

There sat the Master of Life and Death, with the flags and standards of the conquered nations
floating around and above him. As the youth and maiden entered, I again heard the great bell
toll the hour. Throngs of courtiers stood around the Throne. Slowly the curtain of inwrought
tapestry rose from the platina door. Those who had been waiting beyond its threshold for admittance,
were summoned by the Heralds to appear. Ambassadors from the Kings of the East and the Kings
of the West entered the Presence Chamber. On they filed in long and solemn procession. They
all bowed as they passed the Throne, each one depositing an urn of pure gold at the feet of
the Monarch. The urns were filled with the ashes of those who had fallen in battle, heroes
killed in holy causes, patriots and martyrs from different parts of the world. The Grand Duke
entered last in the train, he was clad in the ermine only worn by Princes, and as he bowed
his head, he placed the last urn on the floor. The young man started--the name of the murdered
Mother was deeply graven on the sculptured swells. Then all grew dark before him, he saw neither
the Throne of the Monarch, nor the fair girl still clinging to his arm. But his ear quickened
as his eye grew dim, and the question of the Monarch rang loudly through his brain: 'Are they
all really dead, and will they rise from the grave no more?'

And as if with one voice answered the Ambassadors: 'They are all surely dead, and will rise
no more forever.' At a sign from the Monarch, the courtiers approached, took up the urns, and
solemnly deposited them upon the columns of black marble ranged on either side of the Hall.
Flaming torches were then handed by the attendants, taken by those high in the favor of the
court, and held over the open crypt of the urn. The ashes within kindled, and burned with a
dim, bluish flame. The pale smoke rose from the shrine, spread through the air, and wafted
the smell of Death to the nostrils of the Lord!

It now seemed to the young man as if all he had seen at the hour of twilight was but a dream;
he looked upon these throngs as the sole masters of the world, and on their Monarch as omnipotent
and eternal. At this moment the table of festival rose in the Hall, everywhere surrounded by
the blazing funereal urns. The maiden begged the bridegroom to take his seat at the banquet;
the Master, descending from his Throne, placed his arm in his, and led him to the place of
honor, at his side. The great bell again tolled the hour. The guests also took their places
at the feast.

Directly in front of the young man stood the column of black marble bearing the urn containing
the ashes of his Mother. And whenever he saw her holy name, his long lashes veiled his sinking
eyes; but his bride constantly recalled his attention to the blue flames of the crypt.

More and more madly, fiercely, fearfully, his reeling and wretched soul struggled to regain
its ancient faith, to return to its early hopes; but temptation was around him; his brain was
bewildered; his understanding darkened; and madness within.

Healths poisonous to his heart went round, and he was forced to drain them in honor of the
Master. An inward shivering disjointed his members, unstrung his nerves, heart and frame fainted
into weakness, a dew cold as death covered his temples, and his head fell wearily upon his
breast--the walls, the floors, the ceilings, the men, the burning urns, danced, reeled, and
tottered in wild confusion before him. The murmuring voices, the buzz of sound, the swell of
the triumphant music, the strange words of the foreign bride, mingled and boomed like the roar
of the sea in the ears of the swooning man--and so the last hours passed away!

He still lived, if life be measured by the wild throbs of the heart. Like the clap of doom
the last hour struck upon his ear. He opened his heavy eyelids, the blue flames from the urns
were dying out. The Master of Life and Death, graciously smiling and courteously inclining
toward him, said: 'Guest of my Banquet, the hour has struck in which thou art to swear to serve
me; in which thou must abjure thine ancient faith and name.'

As he spake, he threw to him across the table jewelled orders and diamond crosses, saying:
'Wear these in memory of me!' The Herald then drew near, and read to him from the Black Book
the form of abjuration. The agonizing and swooning man mechanically repeated the words one
by one after him, not even hearing the sound of his own voice. His head had fallen on the bosom
of his bride, his lips still moved, but his eyes were glaring in the whiteness of death--and
so he uttered all the prescribed words until the very last was said!

Scarcely had he finished, when the Master of Life and Death arose and said: 'Servant of my
servants art thou now--beware! shouldst thou prove false to thy oath, the rope of the hangman
surely awaits thee.' Then he broke into a loud, coarse laugh of triumph!

The unfortunate man raised his wretched head, and his first look fell upon the urn of his murdered
Mother. In place of her name of glory another word was standing now: 'INFAMY!' 'Infamy,'--he
looked again; he shrieked aloud, 'Infamy;' and started from his seat with the last effort of
his failing strength. 'Infamy!' shouted the thousands from before, behind, from either side.
'Infamy' sounded from the ceilings of the Palace, the Hall of the Throne, the deep mines and
limitless Treasury! Some among the crowd hastened to greet him by his new name, while others
fastened to his garments the glittering orders and diamond crosses. Some commanded him to bow
before them, while others ordered him to trample under foot the still smouldering ashes of
his Mother!

That thought sent the blood back in hot torrents to his heart. He broke through the surrounding
throng, rushed on, fled from the Presence Chamber, eagerly looking for his bride. He saw her
leaning on the arm of another, mocking and jeering with the rest. He glides on behind the statues,
steals along the recesses, is discovered, and again flies before the enemy. The Palace winds
before him into countless labyrinths--nowhere is shelter to be found sneers, menaces, insults,
are everywhere around him--but worse than all, the curse is now within his soul!

Then he suddenly turns to meet his enemies; he baffles them at first, but countless numbers
are upon him. They hurl him to the ground, trample him under foot, and pass on singing a song
from the land of his Mother. As he rises, fresh numbers assail him, he bids defiance to them
all, struggles, advances, until foaming, bleeding, sinking, he is again driven back, again
forced to seek an outlet from the Palace. Thus fighting, running, falling, fainting, he makes
his way until the first dim dawn of day, and as it breaks, he falls heavily down the brazen
staircase, and rolls below into the court of the Palace. Here strong arms seize him, and bear
him rapidly away to the steps of the church--the same church which he had left in the evening
twilight.

It is the hour of the young dawn, but the sun of this earth will never rise for him again!
Light will awake the world, but it will shine into his blue eyes no more!

He awakes to consciousness on the steps of the church, and finds himself face to face alone
with the Wanderer. He is mute in his despair. The Wanderer, regarding him sternly, says: 'In
other times and scenes thou mightst perchance have been a hero, but the Fates doomed thee to
heavy trial, and thou wert not strong enough to preserve thy virtue! The visible reality prevailed
with thee above the invisible, holy, and eternal truth! Alas, thou art lost!'

'Give me back my horse!' cried the young man, as life again began to flow through his veins.
'Give me the free dress of the steppes, give me my arms, and thou shalt see that I know how
to revenge the wrongs inflicted on my brethren, to redress my own infamy!'

He grasped the hand of his friend, and threw himself into his arms, quivering with rage. Far
more sadly than before, the Wanderer replied:

'The hour for bold and open defiance is not yet near. It is the time for silent sacrifice.
But even shouldst thou live until the Day of Judgment, the hour of Resurrection, thy brethren
will always number thee among those who have renounced the Mother. Hark! thy enemies are in
pursuit of thee, already near. Should they capture thee, thou must be the slave of their wills,
the partner of their crimes, the sport and butt of all their bitter jests throughout the remnant
of thy wretched life. One only refuge remains for thee!' And as he spoke, he drew his glittering
sword.

The young man understood his meaning. With dauntless courage he tore aside the covering from
his breast.

'Strike!' he exclaimed. 'I die as a true son of the many times murdered Mother--honor to her
holy name forever and ever!'

The Wanderer groaned from the depths of his soul. He plunged the sharp cold steel into the
young naked heart. The unfortunate victim fell without a moan. He fell in the first rays of
the rising sun, and in the same hour in which but yesterday, full of strength and hope, he
had mounted his swift horse from the green home-turf, urging him down the hill to push eagerly
over the broad steppe of life.

He fell in silence, but his dying eye again flashed forth a light rivalling the young beam of Day.

The Wanderer knelt beside him, and lifting his clasped hands to Heaven, said: 'O Heavenly Father!
Thou knowest that I loved him better than aught else on earth! As long as it was possible,
I shielded him from the Temptation of Hell, and in the first moment of his fall, I tore his
soul out from the grasp of the enemy, and sent it back to Thee! Save it in eternity, merciful
Father! Let the crimson tide poured out by me, be joined to that sea of innocent blood which
is ever wailing and moaning at the foot of Thy Throne! Let it with that sea fall upon the head
of the Tempters!'

After these words I saw him, with the point of the same sword, draw blood from under his own
heart, and write with the sharp red blade on the stone above the head of the dead: SENT HOME
BY THE HAND OF A FRIEND!

The echoing steps and voices of the pursuers fell loudly on the ear; they were close at hand.
The Wanderer arose, and rapidly disappeared from my eyes in the sanctuary of the ancient church.

Thus passed and ended that one day of my vision!

O Mother, many times murdered! When thou shalt waken from thy long sleep, and again rest on
the long grass of the home turf, again hear the holy whispers of thy unhewn forests green from
sea to sea, again feel thy youth returning upon thee, thou wilt remember thy long night of
death, the terrible phantoms of thy protracted agonies. Weep not then, O Mother! weep not for
those who fell in glorious battle, nor for those who perished on alien soil--although their
flesh was torn by the vulture and devoured by the wolf, they were still happy! Neither weep
for those who died in the dark and silent dungeon underground by the hand of the executioner,
though the dismal prison-lamp was their only star, and the harsh words of the oppressor the
last farewell they heard on earth--they too were happy!

But drop a tear, O Mother! One tear of tender pity for those who were deceived by thy Murderers,
misled by their tissues of glittering falsehood, blinded by misty veils woven of specious deceptions,
when the command of the tyrant had no power to tear their true hearts from thee! Alas, Mother,
these victims have suffered the most of all thy martyred children! Deceitful hopes, born but
to die, like blades of naked steel, forever pierced their breasts! Thousands of fierce combats,
unknown to fame, were waging in their souls, combats fuller of bitter suffering than the bloody
battles thundering on in the broad light of the sun, clashing with the gleam of steel, and
booming with the roar of artillery. No glory shone on the dim paths of thy deceived sons; thy
reproachful phantom walked ever beside them, as part of their own shadow! The glittering eye
of the enemy lured them to the steep slopes of ice, down into the abyss of eternal snow, and
at every step into the frozen depths, their tears fell fast for thee! They waited until their
hearts withered in the misery of hope long deferred; until their hands sank in utter weariness;
until they could no longer move their emaciated limbs in the fetters of their invisible chain;
still conscious of life, they moved as living corpses with frozen hearts--alone amidst a hating
People--alone even in the sanctuary of their own homes--alone forever on the face of the earth!

My Mother! When thou shalt again live in thy olden glory, shed a tear over their wretched fate,
over the agony of agonies, and whisper upon their dark and silent graves, the sublime word: PARDON!

MADAGASCAR

The 'Last Travels' of Ida Pfeiffer, published in London in 1861, called the public attention
to an island which had been excluded from civilization for more than a quarter of a century.
The great Island of Madagascar, situated in the path of all the commerce of Europe with the
East, for reasons we are about to explain, has again attracted the notice of diplomatists,
and threatens to become a second Eastern question. We propose to sketch the history of the
island and to explain the cause of its sudden importance.

Though discovered in 1506 by the Portuguese, and partially colonized at times by the Dutch,
French, and English, it has, up to this time, preserved an independent government; or rather,
the native tribes have been allowed to fight and enslave each other without much aid or hindrance
from Europeans.

When England, early in the present century, began the task of subduing the East, she found
in her conquests of Mauritius and Bourbon the natural and important links in her chain of posts.
As a recent writer has well pointed out, she has a succession of fortified posts, Gibraltar,
St. Helena, the Cape of Good Hope, Mauritius, and Ceylon, reaching from London to Calcutta
and Singapore. The commerce of the world, as it sweeps by the Cape of Good Hope, is forced
to pursue a track in which her strongholds are situated. But for the blindness of her former
rulers, she would be the mistress of the Eastern seas. Two points, however, have been left
unguarded. In some trading convention, some congress of nations, England made the great mistake
of restoring to France the Island of Bourbon, surrendering one of the keys to the impregnable
position she held. Other reasons have prevented the acquisition of Madagascar, and it is not
yet too late to render this mistake fatal to her supremacy. It is true that in case of war,
her armed steamers may start with the assurance of a secure coaling station at the end of every
ten days' journey, but from the Cape eastward she is dependent upon her maintenance of Mauritius.

France has made the most of the opportunity given to her, by holding Bourbon as a military
colony, and maintaining a powerful fleet there. It is, however, for us to regard the interests
of the United States, and to see if any foothold can be gained for our protection. Had war
been the result of the Trent affair, what would have become of our immense fleet of merchant
ships which was then afloat in Indian waters? Manila and Batavia were the only two neutral
ports to which they could have fled for safety; and neither Spain nor Holland would have dared
to permit our cruisers to refit or to coal in their ports. The American flag would have been
driven from those seas without the slightest difficulty.

And yet the means for avoiding this disgraceful state of affairs in the future lie open to
us now. The fertile Island of Madagascar, abounding in safe harbors, lies as near the track
of commerce as do Mauritius and Bourbon. It has innumerable advantages over either of these
islands, and it is especially adapted to our wants. Mauritius must be weak in time of war,
because it is so entirely an artificial colony. A mere dot on the map, only some thirty miles
in diameter, it has a population of over three hundred thousand, wholly devoted to the cultivation
of sugar. This product has been the source of immense wealth to the island, but it has necessitated
the abandonment of every other branch of agriculture. These three hundred thousand inhabitants
are literally dependent for their daily food on the kindness of the elements in time of peace,
and on the naval supremacy of England in time of war. There is not enough grain raised there
to supply the colonists with food for twenty-four hours, and there is rarely a supply in reserve
to last them for two months. Their rice is brought from India, their cattle from Madagascar.
Let the free intercourse with these countries be suspended, and a famine is inevitable. The
noble harbor of Port Louis, with its fortifications, its dockyards, and coal sheds, is a source
of strength to England only so long as she can prevent her enemies from establishing themselves
in Madagascar.

France is striving to rival and surpass England. At Bourbon, already strongly fortified, immense
artificial docks are projected, perhaps commenced. The colony has annually a deficit in its
accounts to be made good from the national treasury, but extension rather than retrenchment
is its policy. France has acquired the Mayotte or Comoro Islands, and several ports on the
north of Madagascar. She has also the sympathy of all the creoles of Mauritius, in whose minds
the English occupation of fifty years has been unable to stifle the instinct of nationality.

Thus the two great Western powers stand, nominally allies at home, jealous and active enemies
abroad.

Circumstances have kept both powers from seizing the tempting prize which has so long hung
before them. What are these two pitiful islands in comparison with the great, wealthy, and
fertile island which, lies to the west of them? In time of peace they are convenient points
in the great lines of commerce; here the disabled vessels of all nations find a resting place.
In time of war they are strongly entrenched positions, liable to capture by any nation which
can secure a base for operations against them. Madagascar, on the other hand, stands fifth
on the list of islands in magnitude, is situated in the latitude most favorable for agriculture,
and abounds in every kind of material wealth. A harbor on its coast, with the whole island
as a depot from whence supplies can be drawn, would be a source of strength more than sufficient
to counterbalance the works of half a century's growth at Mauritius. We have only to see, therefore,
if such a concession can be obtained for this country.

We have said that repeated and ineffectual attempts were made to subdue and colonize the island.
Numerous tribes, of widely varying origin, people the island, some black as the blackest negro,
others of the Malay or Arab type. For centuries they had been engaged in domestic wars, when
in 1816 the English Government agreed to recognize the chief of one tribe as king of the island,
on condition that he would suppress the foreign slave trade.

The chief thus selected was Radama, king of the Hovas, a tribe occupying the centre of the
island, and the one which ranked highest in the scale for intelligence. It is believed that
this race, presenting so many characteristics of the Malays, is the result of some piratical
colony here, established by chance or the desire of conquest. That the Hovas possess a high
degree of intelligence, and are capable of as much culture as the Japanese or Mavris, is indisputable.

Thanks to the muskets and military instructors with which England provided him, Radama was
enabled to extend his conquests in every direction. He was indeed fitted to be a ruler, and,
a savage Napoleon, he devoted as much time to improvement of his subjects as he did to the
increase of his territories. Though not a convert, he allowed the missionaries to preach the
gospel, to reduce the Hova language to writing, and to translate the Bible. He permitted them
to establish schools, to import printing presses, to instruct his people in agriculture and
mechanics. They rapidly availed themselves of the opportunity, and with mines of coal, iron,
and copper in abundance, they became skilful artificers.

Unfortunately, Radama died in 1828, in the prime of life; and, by an intrigue in his harem,
a concubine, Ranavalo, was proclaimed Queen of Madagascar. The advance had been too rapid,
and, as in Japan, there was a large party of conservatives anxious to return to the old regime.
The new queen dissembled for a few years, but finally expelled the missionaries in 1835. Idolatry
was again resumed, and Christianity stifled. A certain amount of commerce was allowed with
Europeans, but under severe restrictions. So necessary to the existence of the neighboring
colonists was the supply of food, that when in 1844 the trade was forbidden, the English Government
was obliged to yield. The difficulty arose from the fact that an English vessel, the 'Marie
Laure,' kidnapped some of the Malagash. The Hovas seized one of the crew, and then declared
non-intercourse. In 1845, one English and two French men-of-war attacked Tamatave, but were
repulsed with considerable losses.

Finally the matter was settled by the payment of $15,000 to the queen as an indemnity, and
this sum, raised by the contributions of the merchants of Port Louis, was paid with the consent
of the English Government.

Until 1861, there was no change in the position of affairs, except one incident, which Madame
Pfeiffer records. In 1831, a certain M. Laborde, shipwrecked on the coast, was carried as a
prisoner to the capital, where he was kept in an honorable captivity. He taught the natives
the art of casting cannon and manufacturing gunpowder, and acquired a considerable property.
In 1855, he was joined by M. Lambert, a Frenchman of wealth, and they became the favorites
of the Prince Rakoto. This son of the queen was at the head of the liberal party, as his cousin,
Ramboasalama, was of the conservative. The latter, nephew of the queen, and brother-in-law
of the prince, had been designated as heir presumptive before the birth of Rakoto; and he had
always the credit of a design to contest the succession.

The visit of Mr. Ellis, an English missionary, in 1856, was the signal for the intrigues which
were about to commence between the French and English. The prince was warmly attached to M.
Lambert, but the English hoped to claim him as a Protestant. Finally, as Madame Pfeiffer says,
M. Lambert attempted to create a revolution, seeking to depose the queen, but he was discovered
and banished.

In 1861, the queen died, and her son succeeded as Radama II, after a short contest with his
cousin. Having been on the island at the time, and leaving it in the vessel which carried the
new king's letters to the colonial governments, the writer can testify to the intense interest
evinced by the French and English. It was confidently asserted at Bourbon that Radama had placed
the island under the protection of France, and that French influence was to predominate. This
proved unfounded, but the court was the centre for incessant intrigues.

The new king commenced his reign under the happiest auspices. He was very popular, and his
reputation for kindness had soon caused many of the surrounding tribes to acknowledge his supremacy.
The Hovas had spread from the centre toward the coast in all directions--to the eastward they
had subdued the Betsimarakas; to the westward, the Saccalaves. Yet numerous tribes had remained
independent, and held large portions of the coast and the interior. The cruelty of the queen
had kept alive their animosity, but now they voluntarily came forward to acknowledge her son
and to be received into the Hova nation.

The people already had acquired a taste for European luxuries, and were desirous of an extended
commerce. As they were rich in herds and flocks, in grain and fruits, as their forests of ebony,
rosewood, and other valuable woods were immense, as their mines yielded coal and iron, perhaps
even gold, they were ready and anxious to open their ports to the commerce of the world. England
and France both recognized the king, sent envoys with congratulatory letters and presents,
and appointed resident consuls. The United States alone, unfortunately plunged in civil war,
neglected the opportunity.

The king proclaimed freedom of religion, permitted the establishment of schools, established
freedom of imports and exports, and granted lands to all bona fide settlers.

It was with the greatest surprise, therefore, that we have learned, some two months since,
that a revolution has taken place, and that these fair prospects have been darkened by the
murder of the king. It seems that he had made such lavish grants of land to his favorite, Lambert,
that his nobles rebelled. Lambert had been sent to France to obtain the regalia for the coronation,
and had organized a great company to hold these concessions. Whether the feuds of the missionaries,
Protestant English and Catholic French, aided this, is not yet known.

It is clear, however, that the king and many of his personal friends were killed, and that
his wife, Rabodo, is the queen. She is the sister of Ramboasalama, and probably represents
the party of retrogression.

It is not, however, too late for our Government to recognize the ruler of Madagascar, and to
obtain those indispensable advantages resulting. In time of peace, we shall have safe harbors
for our merchant vessels, and we shall open a new field for our commerce. In time of war, we
shall have these neutral ports as a refuge, and should diplomacy go one step farther and secure
us a coaling station, we shall be on equal terms in the East with the other great maritime powers.

There is certainly no time to be lost. A single English steamer, flying the confederate flag,
can pass the Cape, can coal at Mauritius, or rendezvous at Madagascar, and could then destroy
more shipping than the whole fleet of pirates has yet done. It is at least probable that our
national vessels would be refused permission to avail of Port Louis for repairs or supplies.
It certainly does not comport with the honor of the nation to have to rely upon the churlish
courtesy of England. Already, too, we see it announced that Napoleon will find in the massacre
of French subjects a pretext to seize on the island. If our Government will spare a single
one of the cruisers which have so uselessly sought the Alabama, it may, during the present
year, negotiate a treaty which will at once advance our prosperity in peace, and increase our
strength in any future war.

It seems strange, indeed, that our statesmen cannot learn that we must hereafter abandon our
isolated condition. England has taught us the folly of continuing indifferent to her aggressions
in the East, in the hope that she will not interfere in the West. No blow can be more fatal
to her supremacy abroad than the knowledge that we have secured a point where we perpetually
threaten her line of communication with her colonies.

We have written thus fully, because so few persons have had occasion to consider the subject.
It seems probable, from the latest advices from Port Louis, that some envoy has visited the
island, but what we require is a more imposing display of our power. The new queen, who has
assumed the name of Rahoserina, is but a puppet in the hands of the council of nobles, of which
Rainivoninahitriniony is the chief. Formerly all honors were held subject to the pleasure of
the king, who could degrade his servants at pleasure; but this power is now declared to be
abrogated. The powerful tribe of Saccalaves, always independent until the accession of Radama
II, refuses to acknowledge his successor. It may be necessary to negotiate different treaties,
perhaps, to protect American citizens in case of civil war. It is certainly most important
to show the natives that we are really a great maritime nation. The time and position demand
the employment of an able envoy, and the presence of such a naval force as may cause his mission
to be respected.

Our last topic is to be considered. We do not advocate the establishment of costly works by
Government, or the acquisition of a colony. The laws of commerce will provide the first, if
only a proper protection is given to enterprise. Let us obtain but a single port under the
safeguard of the American flag, and it will become a depot as flourishing as Singapore. Private
enterprise will speedily establish dockyards and machine shops; for not only will there be
an immense legitimate commerce with the Malagash, but the port will be the great centre for
repairing and refitting our merchant vessels and whalers. The one thing needful, we repeat,
is prompt action by our Government, with the certainty that the opportunity now presented will
not return.

NOTE.--The latest advices from Madagascar, received via Mauritius, throw a little light upon
the revolution which resulted in the death of Radama II. It seems probable that the late king
had lost the esteem of his people by his partiality toward his favorites, by the concessions
made to foreigners, especially to M. Lambert, and by his vacillating course in religious matters.
His private life was such as to render it highly improbable that he had become a Christian;
yet Mr. Ellis, the English missionary, exercised a great control over him.

The late queen was buried at Ambohimanga, a little village where there was a temple devoted
to the chief idol. It seems that her son had promised to keep this spot sacred from the intrusion
of the missionaries. Mr. Ellis most imprudently determined to preach there, and though driven
away once, obtained troops from the king, and succeeded in a second attempt.

As the nobles and the population were almost unanimously in favor of idolatry, this course
gave cause for great dissatisfaction. The more devout, assembling near the capital, held daily
meetings, and a disease called ramanenra--a sort of nervous affection, such as has too often
accompanied revivals in Christian countries--appeared among them. The nobles confederated under
the lead of the commander-in-chief, Rainivoninahitriniony, and remained aloof from supporting
the king. Finally, the king published a mysterious law, allowing individuals or tribes to fight
in the presence of witnesses--a law supposed by the one party to encourage assassination, and
by the other to tend to the extirpation of the Christians.

The prime minister, in a letter written in English, explains the last scene thus: On the 8th
May, the chief officers requested the repeal of these laws; the king refused; and the tenth
day, a public tumult resulted in the slaughter of the Menamaso, or native favorites of the
king. On the 12th May, the leaders, afraid to pause, strangled the king, and proclaimed Rabodo
queen, under the name of Rahoserina.

It is believed that no foreigner was injured; but the nobles have taken an important step in
proclaiming the new queen as direct successor of Ranavalo--thereby ignoring the reign of Radama
II. As the fundamental rule of the Hovas had been that the title to all land was in the sovereign
and inalienable, the grants to Lambert and others are held to be void. We believe this has
not been officially stated, but Commodore Dupré, who negotiated the treaty between France and
Radama, says that the treaty was almost unanimously rejected by the great council of nobles,
and was accepted solely by the king.

The last advices, 6th September, from Port Louis, are that the French fleet at Tamatave maintains
a semi-warlike attitude toward the Hovas, not landing nor recognizing the authorities. Rumors
are rife of the intentions of the French Government to seize Tamatave, and apply other coercive
measures, unless the former treaty is carried into effect.

The case seems to stand thus: The emperor, availing of the weakness of Radama II for his favorite
Lambert, concluded a treaty, by which the king was to entirely alter the laws of the kingdom,
and to give the French a controlling influence in the Indian Ocean. The people have deposed
their ruler, and refuse to be bound by arrangements made by his will alone. Under ordinary
circumstances, Napoleon would hardly brave the anger of England in a matter in which the latter
has so much at stake. The prize, however, is well worth the effort. Any European nation obtaining
sole possession of Madagascar dominates the East. It is surely time for our Government to awake
to the importance of the steps now being taken. It is not a time when the interests of the
country can be intrusted to the efforts of a consul or any inferior naval officer. We ought
to send an envoy with powers to negotiate a treaty, and with such a fleet as will insure a
respectful attention to our demands. The number of American vessels which frequent the coasts
of Madagascar is a sufficient reason for us to interfere, without regard to the vastly greater
interests which demand that this island shall not become a French colony. Our prediction that
the confederate pirates would soon sweep the Indian Ocean of our richly laden India-men seems
in a fair way to be accomplished; and where, save by the contemptuous forbearance of England
and France, can our cruisers find a port for supplies, repairs, or information?

A VIGIL WITH ST. LOUIS.

  [Greek: "Cheires men hagnai, phrên d' echei miasma ti."]

  EURIPIDES.

  O Friend, thy brow is overcast; but haply for thy grief,
  Though all untold, a spell I hold to work a swift relief,--
  A hallowed spell;--no rites we need that shun the light,
  Thy taper trim; for we must read some dark old words to-night.
  For I will, shall I?--from their graves call up the holy dead,
  More mighty than the living oft such soul as thine to aid.
  From Fear and Woe, through fears and woes like thine, they won release,
  And through our still confronting foes once fought their way to peace.
  'Twixt woe and weal, a balm to heal our every wound they found,
  An outlet for each pool of strife, that whirls us round and round.
  And if perhaps their childish time discerned not all aright,--
  While Fancy her stained windows reared between them and the light,--
  That in these clearer latter days 'tis given to thee to know,
  Then seek the spirit they received, and bid the letter go.
  Thy heart unto its Lord unlock; and shut thy closet's door.
  The holy water of thy tears drop on the quiet floor.
  Unclasp the old brown tome. The walls no more are seen. The page
  I read; and we are backward borne far in a bygone age.
  The spell hath wrought. To take us in, a tower and bower advance
  Where grows upon our steadfast gaze the royal saint of France.
  The bower full well a hermit's cell--with hourglass and with skull--
  Might seem,--the hangings woven all of rocks and mosses full.
  The floor is thick with rushes strown. Some resting place is there
  Worn,--as amid the rushy marsh by stag that made his lair,--
  Worn just beneath yon carven form, that bends in pain and love,
  As if to bless, from its high place, and almost seems to move,
  While round it in the wind of night the arras swells and swings,--
  The viceroy's of the universe, son of the King of kings.
  For Louis loves to leave his court, and lay aside his crown,
  And to a mightier Prince than he to bow in homage down.
  In this great presence learns the king peace, truth, and lowlihead;
  Here learns the saint the majesty no earthly power to dread.
  But now the king's mute voice it rings, and through the shades doth call:
  'Ho, Sire de Jonville, come to me, my doughty seneschal!'
  The rafters feel the tramp of steel; and by the monarch stand
  Again the feet that by him stood far in the Holy Land.
  'O Sire de Jonville,' to his friend and servant Louis saith,
  'Hold fast and firmly to the end the jewel of thy faith.
  Strong faith's the key of heaven; and once an abbot taught to me,
  If will is good, though faith is weak, shall faith accepted be.
  This tale he told[11]:

               A Master old,--Master of Sacred Lore,--
  Of life unsmirched, once came to him in straits and travail sore,
  'What wouldst thou, Master?--What the grief that makes thee peak
      and pine?
  And comest thou to me?--My soul hath often leaned on thine!'
  'Let each co-pilgrim lean in turn on each,' in anguish meek,
  With tongue that clave unto his mouth, the Master then did speak;
  But when the abbot led him in and lent his pitying ears,
  Then tears came fast instead of words; words could not come for tears.
  'O brother, weep no more; but speak, and banish thy dismay.
  Of man is guilt; but grace is God's, that purgeth guilt away.
  If all our little being's bound were filled and stuffed with sin,
  'Twere nothing to the holiness His mighty heart within;
  And in this wilderness of life there's no such crooked road,
  But from it may a path be found straight to the throne of God.
  The penitent that mourns like thee, that path will surely take.
  What needeth but to own thy sin and straight thy sin forsake?'
  'Yet must I weep. Mine inward plight is one that stands alone.
  The outward ill the tempted wight may do or leave undone;
  But when I to the altar go, to eat the sacred bread
  And gaze upon the blood divine, that for us all was shed,
  Still Satan stirreth up in me a heart of unbelief!--
  This guilt must sure unmeasured be, save haply by this grief!'
  The abbot's brows were sternly bent an instant on his guest:
  'Dost thou--thou dost not, sure!--invite this traitor to thy breast?'
  'The livelong day, though sore assailed, true watch and ward I keep,--
  Keep vigils long as flesh can bear,--but in my helpless sleep--
  Thronged heaven, canst thou no angel spare, to sit by me by night
  And drive away the hell-sent dreams, that drive me wild with fright?--
  I seem to spill with frantic hands, and spurn the piteous blood,
  To trample on the blessed bread, and spit upon the rood!'
  The abbot's cheer grew calm and clear: 'Now, Master, tell me true:
  For aught that Satan proffers thee, such trespass wouldst thou do?'
  'From his poor thrall he taketh all, and offers nought instead.
  The Father's grace,--the Son's mild face,--are all I crave,' he said.
  'For any threat of any fate, wouldst follow his commands?'
  'The fiery stake I'd rather make my portion at his hands!'
  The abbot's mien was bright, I ween, as 'twere a saint's in bliss:
  'O fiend, 'tis well to seek for hell so pure a gem as this!
  O cunning foe, that round dost go these heavenward birds to snare,
  When every brighter line is vain, wouldst tempt them with despair?
  Bethink thee, Master. War doth rage 'twixt Britain's king, we know,
  And ours. Now tell me unto whom most thanks our liege shall owe,
  When war is o'er? To him who, oft assailed but never quelled,
  The castle of Rochelle upon the dangerous Marches held,--
  Whose battlements must bristle still with halberd, bow, and lance,--
  Or Montl'hery's, that nestles safe close to the heart of France?'
  'Unto the warden of Rochelle. Thou'rt answered easily!'
  'That stronghold is thy heart, but mine the keep of Montl'hery,
  For He who giveth gifts to all, hath given me to believe
  So steadfastly, that strife like thine my wit can scarce conceive.
  From th' Enemy God keepeth me,--He knows my weaker strength,--
  But suffers thee assayed to be for higher meed at length.
  Then let us at our different posts His equal mercies own;
  But they the sharpest thorns who bear may wear the brightest crown.'
  Beside the kneeling penitent the abbot bent his knee,
  Sent his own praise and prayers to heaven forth on an embassy,
  Then raised him up, and saw that God had sent him answering grace;
  The shadow of the Enemy had left his heart and face.
  Calmly as warily he walked his fellow men beside,
  A good, grave man. 'Tis said, at last a happy man he died.'

UNION NOT TO BE MAINTAINED BY FORCE.

The enemies of our cause in Europe seem to have settled in their own minds the certainty of
a final separation of the American States. Compelled though they may be, reluctantly to admit
the superiority of our resources and the immense advantages we have recently gained over the
conspirators, they yet adhere with singular tenacity to the belief that all our victories will
be barren, and that all our vast acquisitions of Southern territory will not avail for the
ultimate restoration of the Union. Though the domain originally usurped by the rebellion is
already sundered by our possession of that great continental highway, the Mississippi river,
and though no shadow of hope remains that the enemies of the Union will ever be able to recover
it; though the recent boundless theatre of hostilities is gradually contracting, and the resources
of the rebellion are rapidly melting away, until there remains no longer any doubt of our ultimate
and even speedy success in crushing the wasted armies of the desperate foe; and though the
boundaries of the boasted confederacy are uncertain, ever-shifting, and mystical, while whole
populations of recovered regions of country hail the advent of our conquering flag with streaming
eyes and shouts of joy; yet our jealous friends across the water, in the very act of acknowledging
all this, never fail to assert, with the utmost vehemence, that in spite of all our military
advantages, the Union is still irrecoverably destroyed. There is something remarkable in this
persistent opinion, which, through all the changes of condition exhibited by the hostile parties
in our struggling country, continues to possess the mind of British statesmen with unshaken
firmness. If they undertake to justify their hasty recognition of the rebels as belligerents,
and to vindicate their alleged impartial neutrality, they take apparently peculiar delight
in fortifying themselves with the declaration that the Union is effectually broken, and can
never be restored. It is necessary to throw the shield of this cherished anticipation back
on the unfriendly acts they have perpetrated against us, in order fully to justify their conduct
to themselves. If the rebellious States should indeed be compelled to acknowledge the authority
of the Federal Government, and should return again to their position in the Union, the hostile
cruisers which have been fitted out in England to harass our commerce, would occasion some
unpleasant negotiations, and perhaps some costly responsibilities. Possibly our disinterested
friends across the water, calmly looking on from a distance, may be better able to understand
the tendency of events, and to foresee the issue of the mighty civil contest which rages around
us. They are not at all involved in the awful passions which the war has engendered in our
bosoms, and thus, cool and deliberate, from the great altitude of their assumed moral serenity
and disinterestedness, they may in reality behold the division of our country already accomplished,
whatever may be the result of our grand strategy and our bloody battles.

Let us open our eyes fully, and look this matter dispassionately in the face. Let us try and
ascertain whether we are in reality deceiving ourselves and waging a vain and fruitless war
against our exasperated and misguided brethren of the South. We know they have instituted a
causeless rebellion, which has brought unnumbered woes upon our common country. But if we cannot
restore the Union, and reëstablish one great and powerful nationality within the magnificent
domain which we possess as it was when this unhappy war began, then surely we are wasting our
blood and treasure--our lives and fortunes--with the most wanton and wicked disregard of the
sufferings and sacrifices of the people. If the war is to accomplish nothing, then the sooner
it is closed the better. If the Union is indeed irrevocably broken and gone forever, let us,
by all means, hasten to arrange the terms of honorable peace, and stop the effusion of blood
at the earliest practicable moment. Unless we can assure ourselves that there is some object
to be gained, commensurate in value with all the terrible sacrifices we are daily making, it
is only criminal stubbornness and passion which induce us to continue the awful conflict.

Of one thing, at least, there is no shadow of doubt. The people of the loyal States, who, by
an immense majority, have just emphasized their determination to sustain the war, are firmly
convinced that they are not laboring and suffering in vain. It is no spasmodic impulse of blind
passion, or even of useless though just resentment against wrong, which impels them, after
nearly three years of ruinous war, to redouble their sublime efforts to conquer the treason
that still obstinately resists the lawful authority of the Union. Whatever else may be truly
said of this great conflict and its terrible results, it cannot be questioned that the people
of the loyal States are profoundly impressed with the inestimable value of their free institutions
and of the constitutional integrity and unity of the Government which shall administer them
on this continent. They have faith in the exalted destiny of their country. They at least do
not admit that the Union is irrecoverably lost; on the contrary, they believe, with a religious
sincerity, which no temporary disaster can shake, in the certainty of its speedy restoration.
This earnest faith is not merely the result of education and national prejudice. While it is
to some extent an instinctive or intuitive insight of the American people, prophetically anticipating
the future, it is also a matter of sober judgment, founded upon the most substantial and convincing
reasons.

In the first place, the loyal people of the United States plainly see that the true interests
of both sections demand the restoration of their old connection under one free and benign Government.
Having originated and developed a mighty republican government, until it became continental
in its dimensions, and having through it achieved results unexampled in history, with the promise
of future prosperity immeasurably grand and imposing, the lovers of the Union would hold themselves
utterly unworthy of their lineage and of their inherited freedom, if they could consent, in
the presence of whatever dangers and difficulties, to see the glorious destiny of their country
defeated. They would justly consider themselves traitors, not only to their country, but also
to the highest interests of humanity itself; and they would feel the ineffable shame of imprinting
the brand of their degradation upon their own brows. Partakers of the noblest forms and the
most precious blessings of liberty, under a splendid, powerful, and growing nationality, they
are too conscious of the dignity and glory of the American character ever to be willing to
fall from that high estate without a struggle which shall fully demonstrate their lofty patriotism
and their intelligent appreciation of the priceless political and social structure they seek
to preserve for the benefit of the whole country and of the world. The history of Europe, and
indeed the experience of the entire human race, have taught them the immense value of a mighty
continental organization, such as our Union has hitherto established. Solemnly impressed with
this great lesson of human history, they will never consent to see their country broken up
into discordant fragments. As they plainly foresee the tremendous and ever-increasing evils
of such a national disintegration, they have deliberately come to consider the worst calamities
of this war as mere dust in the balance when weighed against them. It is this awful picture
of bloody conflicts, perpetuated through coming generations, wasting the substance and paralyzing
the fruitful energies of this mighty nation, perhaps for centuries to come--it is this vista
of inevitable calamities and horrors, which reconciles the loyal people of North America to
the dreadful war in which they have been so earnestly engaged for the last two years and more.
They feel the inspiration of a sacred cause, the mighty impulse of an idea as grand as their
cherished hopes for their country, and as immense as the interests of all humanity. They hear
the mute appeals of a swarming posterity, gathered from all nations in pursuit of freedom,
progress, and happiness, and they know that these countless millions will justly hold them
responsible for the deeds of the present momentous hour. Is it strange that, penetrated and
nerved with the high motives to be derived from these solemn considerations, the American people
are prepared to accept the responsibilities of the great occasion, and even to wade through
blood for the realization of the grandeur of those human hopes which are now intrusted to their
keeping? One nation--one government--one universal freedom within those imperial boundaries
which have heretofore been the theatre of our glorious achievements as a people! This is the
grand thought of the Union men of America. This is the principle of their organization, and
this it is which gives them hope, and strength, and courage. What weakness, what degeneracy,
what dwindling of power for good and retrogression of thought and aim would be the consequence
of permanent division! What a lamentable fall in our position among the nations of the earth,
and what a diminution of our capacity for progress among ourselves and for usefulness to mankind!
It is our duty and our destiny to develop all the physical resources of the continent--to stimulate
its agricultural capabilities--to bring to light its boundless mineral treasures--to pierce
its mountains and level its valleys--to control its mighty floods--and to make it worthy to
be the seat of human freedom and of human empire. Nor is it less our destiny to build up a
moral and social power and a political organization, which shall shed abroad a new and glorious
light, beaming with immortal hopes, and penetrating to the farthest verge of the habitable
globe. Nature, in every form of benignant usefulness and unequalled grandeur, invites us to
this tremendous task. The loyal people of the nation have not been insensible to these mystic
calls and the noble anticipations growing out of them, fraught as they are with the happiness
and progress of the human race. They have projected works of the most gigantic proportions,
nor, although they are conscious that union is indispensable to their success, have they hesitated
to begin them, with all the high confidence necessary to their completion. Even amid the perils
and the vast expenditures of civil war have they embarked in the grand enterprise of uniting
the Atlantic and Pacific oceans by a continental highway, equal in its cost and its importance
to the power and resources of a mighty empire. Vast internal streams and lakes call for union
by canals, which shall typify the union of hearts and of interests destined to bind together
millions of freemen, whose connection of brotherhood and national unity shall be as lasting
as the perpetual flow of our mighty rivers, and as full of blessings as our great lakes are
of their pure and crystal waters. The agitation of these momentous schemes, under existing
circumstances, is a phenomenon indicating a consciousness of security and of vast power in
the community, which, at the same time that it is engaged in the perilous and bloody work of
preserving the Union, is preparing to perform the most important duties appertaining to the
nation in the hour of its most perfectly established and permanent authority. It is the instinct
of the national destiny working out its ends in spite of the difficulties and dangers of the
hour. It is the prophetic vision of the popular mind, unconsciously preparing for a great future
not yet visible to the natural eye, but which the providence of God, in its own good time,
will verify to the firm and courageous hearts of our people.

The loyal people of our country, those who are determined to restore the Union, are well aware
that it cannot be maintained by force. That great political organization was voluntary in its
origin, based on the consent of the governed; and it has been upheld through all its marvellous
career of prosperity by the free and unconstrained will of the people, who rejoiced in its
common benefits and blessings. The novel system on which it was built, not only required the
largest liberty for its very conception and for its practical embodiment, but was also admirably
devised to secure the complete and permanent enjoyment of that individual independence in thought
and action, which is the first of human privileges. Those States of the Union which are preëminently
loyal to it, have ever cherished the most liberal principles of civil polity, and have framed
their constitutions in accordance with the most modern and advanced maxims of popular rights.
So far are they from any disposition to usurp authority or to impose unjust or unnecessary
restraints upon the political action of the people, that they are charged with the opposite
fault of carrying liberty to the extreme of ungoverned license. Of all the American States,
these are the least likely to interfere with the great principles of civil liberty, or to impose
an unacceptable government on the people by force. All the violence, so far as any has been
shown, is wholly on the other side. Leaving entirely out of view the exceptional irregularities
arising from a state of civil war, and it must be acknowledged that the social and political
system of the Southern States is one which rests on arbitrary force as its corner stone. It
is this arbitrary and tyrannical spirit embodied in Southern institutions which has seized
on the pretext of secession in order to destroy the Government of the Union. The efforts of
the loyal States and of the Federal authority in the present war are antagonistic to this spirit.
Their purpose is to break down and destroy this system of arbitrary power, which has set itself
up against the Union; and in its stead to bring into play the great principle of popular assent
to the fundamental principles and conditions of government. Annihilate the despotism which
controls in the pretended confederacy, give the masses of the people absolute freedom of choice
under the conditions necessary for deliberate and intelligent decision, and they will certainly
pronounce for the restoration of the old Union, under which they have enjoyed such boundless
prosperity. No friend of the Union entertains any serious thought of disregarding or destroying
the great principle that governments are only rightly founded on the consent of the governed.
But it is not every temporary aberration of thought, nor every outbreak of revolutionary violence,
which may properly be allowed to avail in changing the forms of an established government.
Some respect is due to obligations once assumed and long recognized as the basis of a permanent
political organization; and when the minority in that organization have taken up arms against
it, the majority, in possession of the lawful power of the nation, are bound to vindicate its
constitutional authority. If the Union cannot be maintained by force, it ought not to be destroyed
by force. The instinct of self-preservation, which is but the impulse of a solemn duty, would
necessarily and rightfully lead it to suppress the lawless force that assailed it. If this
assault is wholly wrong and unjustifiable, if it is in reality as injurious to the seceding
States themselves as to those which remain in the Union, then it is certain that, with the
suppression of the violence prevailing in the disaffected region, the spirit of disunion itself
will disappear. The Federal Government cannot escape the necessity of performing this duty,
of suppressing and destroying the lawless power which assails it, and permitting the Southern
people to return to the Union. At the present moment, in the midst of a sanguinary conflict,
they are blinded with passion and overflowing with enmity. But set them free from the power
which now deceives and abuses them, which arrays them against their own best interests, and
makes them the helpless victims of a wicked war, and they will, at no distant period, gladly
pronounce for the unity of the great nation with which Providence has cast their lot. Innumerable
indications of this disposition among the masses of the Southern people are visible in the
events of every day; and these will multiply in proportion to the success of our arms and the
decline of power in the rebellion. If we are mistaken in this view, then our argument falls
to the ground. If, upon a full consideration of all the circumstances and with perfect freedom
to act according to their understanding of their best interests, the people of the Southern
States should deliberately determine upon a permanent separation, our noblest hopes would be
sadly disappointed. But this is utterly impossible. In moments of frenzy, men may perpetrate
deeds of desperation. Among the masses of all communities, some are found who, under various
impulses, will commit suicide. But the conduct of the great majority everywhere is controlled
by the dictates of reason and self-interest. Whatever folly, even to the extremity of self-destruction,
a few madmen in the Southern States may counsel, it may confidently be expected that rational
thoughts will prevail among the masses. The paths of duty and of interest are for them the
same; and, upon the whole, are too broad and plain to be mistaken. Their self-constituted leaders
have already overwhelmed them with calamities. The emancipated people will scarcely heed the
advice of these, when their plausible schemes shall have been all baffled, and their usurped
power utterly overthrown.

It is, therefore, very far from the thoughts of loyal men, in upholding the Federal Government,
to establish the principle of force as the bond of the American Union. They repel the lawless
force which now assails it; and even while they do so, they invite the misguided people of
the rebellious region to return again to their allegiance and to take shelter under the political
system which is their only security for permanent peace and prosperity. The result of the contest
in the restoration of the Union, so far from establishing force as the basis of political authority,
on the contrary, will certainly destroy it, and give a far wider scope to the voluntary principle
of consent, which is the only solid foundation of freedom. In the normal condition of the larger
number of the loyal States, that is to say, in times of peace, liberty prevails in its broadest
and most universal sense. Force nowhere holds a place in society, except for the protection
of individual rights and of public order. Every man is permitted to pursue happiness in his
own way, and to enjoy perfect freedom of thought, of speech, and of action, except when his
published words or his overt acts are calculated to interfere with the acknowledged rights
or interests of others. This is, theoretically, the consummation of the greatest possible human
liberty. It provides only for order and justice, and leaves everything else to the control
of individual will and social coöperation. In the present war for the Union, the loyal States
are by no means contending for the abrogation of this principle of liberty, but for its extension.
They desire neither to abolish it with reference to the Union, when exercised through the forms
provided in the Constitution, nor to prevent its operations within the limits of the Southern
States themselves.

It is not possible that the great civil conflict now pending could take place without causing,
in the end, an important extension of liberal principles. These, when they once acquire a firm
hold upon any society possessed of the requisite intelligence, are altogether too strong for
the antagonistic principle of force, because the latter can be nothing but an authority usurped
by the few and exerted against the many; while the former is the accumulation of the whole
power of society wielded for the benefit of all. Obviously, this affords the only basis broad
enough to sustain a social structure of any stability and permanence.

Under the operation of this voluntary principle--the principle of voluntary consent and of
universal freedom--the conflicting elements of Southern society will be compelled to adjust
themselves to each other more wisely, and therefore more safely and profitably, than under
the arbitrary system which has hitherto prevailed.

Some of the wealthiest men and the largest slaveholders have already discerned the necessities
of their condition, and are fully prepared to accept the new order of things, and to make their
arrangements for future operations accordingly. Under the law of liberty, the races, in their
new relations, will soon find their appropriate positions in the social organization, subject
chiefly to the natural influences of intelligence, morality, industry, and property, but not
without the inevitable pressure and disturbance of traditional prejudice to hinder and embarrass
the operation of the principle of freedom. It is impossible to prevent this, so long as human
nature retains its present tendency to selfishness and violence. The only alternative is to
await the soothing operation of time, which gradually softens the asperities of prejudice,
and may be expected ultimately to bring the noblest harmony out of the present confusion and
disorder.

Many good and humane men apprehend the most serious evils from the sudden change of relations,
now certain to be effected, between the two races in the South. It will be a rude and violent
shock to the interests and feelings of the whites, and will undoubtedly produce that inconvenience
which always results from great social transformations. But the anticipation is doubtless worse
than the reality will prove to be. There is a plastic capacity in human nature which enables
it readily to adjust itself in new situations when overruling necessity compels submission.
It remains to be seen what will be the results, immediate and remote, of freedom in a society
composed of so nearly equal proportions of the two races. Whatever may be the mere temporary
difficulties at the outset, we do not doubt that, in the long run, freedom will produce the
best results to both. Nature is unerring in the wisdom of her general purposes and in the selection
of the means by which she fulfils them, when left free to pursue her own laws. Whatever oscillations
may take place, the mean result is always good. The experience of a single generation will
dissipate all the delusions which now blind and enrage the Southern people.

With the disappearance of the principle of arbitrary power now embodied in Southern society,
the last motive for a dissolution of the American Union will have vanished forever. Should
that principle only decline to a subordinate authority, with the certainty of gradual extinction,
the interests of freedom will be in the ascendant, and their influence secure the restoration
of the Federal authority. Here lies the whole problem: let despotism continue to prevail in
the South, and the separation, with all its terrible consequences, must inevitably be accomplished;
let freedom succeed, and from that moment, every hostile sentiment at once subsides, and the
sundered sections, 'like kindred drops,' again 'mingle into one.' A free community will gravitate
to the central orb of liberty; one that is repellent to freedom will fly off on its erratic
course to the regions of outer darkness, and will never return until, having completed the
cycle of its destiny of ruin, it shall be brought back to be regenerated at the fountain of
light, and truth, and liberty.

New York has become a great and magnificent metropolis. The avenues of the city extend for
miles beyond the old landmarks. The adjacent farms have been converted into lots, and covered
with handsome houses. The old buildings are torn down, and new and elegant ones erected in
their place. The streets are thronged with a purely cosmopolitan class. You behold specimens
of every nation under the heavens jostling the citizens on the sidewalk, or filling the omnibuses
which choke the way. And from the commingled sounds of the tramp of horses, the rolling of
vehicles, and the tread of human beings, there arises through the day and far into the night
a perpetual but muffled roar from this great thoroughfare.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a lovely October afternoon--one of those mellow days for which this latitude is so remarkable--possessing
the softness and genial temperature of summer, without its scorching heat.

The world of fashion has returned from the Spas, the mountains, the seaside. Elegant equipages
pass up and down, or stop before the favorite resorts for shopping. The streets and sidewalks
are literally crowded, as if it were some grand gala-time.

It is nearly four o'clock. Walking slowly up Broadway is a person probably about fifty-five,
of medium height, inclining to be stout, who carries his hands behind him as he proceeds thoughtfully
along. His dress is particularly neat. His hat, while it conceals an excessive baldness, permits
the escape of a quantity of light hair, quite unmixed with gray, which fringes the back of
the head. At a distance, his complexion looks soft and fair; but, on closer observation, it
has the appearance of smooth leather. Occasionally he raises his face to regard a building,
as if he had a special interest in so doing; then one may see a light-blue eye, clear and icy
as a fine December day, having an expression like a flint.

He walks on. Two young men are just passing him. One says to his companion:

'Do you know who that is?'

'Which?'

'That old fellow right by your side.'

'No. Who is it?'

'That's Hiram Meeker.'

'You don't say so!'

He pauses, and lets the individual alluded to pass, that he may take a good look at him.

'I would like to have some of his cash, anyhow. What do you suppose he is worth?'

'Oh, there is no telling; he is variously estimated at from five to ten millions, but nobody
knows. Started without a penny, as clerk in a ship-chandler's store.'

Yes, reader, that is Hiram. [We shall continue our familiarity, and call him, when we see fit,
by his first name.] That is our old acquaintance Hiram Meeker, who commenced at Hampton, with
Benjamin Jessup--Hiram Meeker of Burnsville, now the great Hiram Meeker of New York.

We have devoted a large part of this volume to Hiram's early career, going into the minutiæ
of his education, his religious training, and his business life. This was not without design.
For the reader, once in possession of these circumstances, had no need to be informed in detail
of the achievements of those years in which Hiram worked vigorously on through successive stages
in his career, while his heart grew hard as the nether millstone.

As you see him now, pursuing his way along the street, he has really but one single absorbing
idea--ACQUISITION. True, he clings to his belief in the importance of church membership. He
has long been the leading vestryman at St. Jude's. He is the friend and adviser of the Bishop.

Famous is Hiram Meeker the millionaire!

Famous is Hiram Meeker the Churchman!

Still, I repeat, he has but one thought--one all-absorbing, all-engrossing passion.

You have not forgotten, I am sure, the early calculating policy of Hiram, and to what degree
he had carried it when we took leave of him. Imagine this developed and intensified day by
day, month by month, and year by year, over more than a quarter of a century.

Since we first made his acquaintance, he has kept on rigidly. In all his intercourse with his
fellow beings--man to man--with high and low--with the sex--with his nearest relations,--he
has never, no, never looked to anything except what he considered his personal advantage. He
is a member of the Church; he performs certain rites and formulæ of our holy religion; he subscribes
to charities: but it is to secure to himself personally the benefit of heaven and whatever
advantages may be connected with it. So that, where he has acted wisely and well, the action
has been robbed of all merit, because there was no wise or right intent, but simply a politic
end in view.

Look at him, as he pushes along in the crowd! Notwithstanding his millions, he is there a mere
atom out of this world's creation. He has not a sympathy beyond himself--not a hope which does
not centre in self--no connecting link with anything outside or beyond--no thought, no emotion,
no sense, no feeling, which are not produced by a desire to advance the interests of "H. Meeker,"
here and hereafter.

       *       *       *       *       *

We will go on in advance of Hiram, and enter his house before him.

It is one of the best in the city. Not showy, but large, ample, and well constructed; indicating
the abode of a solid man. It is situated in one of the finest streets far 'up town.'

Before the door are two equipages. One is Mrs. Meeker's carriage, very handsome and in exquisite
taste. The other is a stylish single-seat phaeton, with two horses tandem, and a rather flashy-looking
servant in gay livery.

Let us go into the house.

Mrs. Meeker is just preparing for a short shopping excursion before dinner. At the distance
from which we regard her, Time seems to have dealt very kindly with her. The figure is quite
the same, the style the same, the face the same, and you see no gray hairs. In short, you behold
our old friend Arabella, slightly exaggerated, perhaps--but it is she.

She leaves her room, and prepares to descend.

As she passes to the top of the staircase, a faint voice exclaims:

'Mamma!'

Mrs. Meeker stops with an expression of impatience, turns, and enters the adjoining apartment.

On a sort of couch or ottoman reclines a young lady, who, you can perceive at a glance, is
a victim of consumption.

It is their oldest child, who for five years has been an invalid, and whose strength of late
has been fast declining. One can hardly say how she would have looked in health, for disease
is a fearful ravager. Still, Harriet (she is named for Mr. Meeker's mother) probably resembled
her own mother more than any one else in personal appearance, but beyond that there was no
resemblance whatever. Neither was she like her father, but more like her grandfather Meeker,
of whom her uncle says she always reminds him. She possesses a kind and happy nature; and since
she was stricken by the terrible malady, she has grown day by day more gentle and more heavenly,
as her frame has been gradually weakened under its insidious inroads.

When Mrs. Meeker came in, she demanded, in an irritated tone, 'What do you want, Harriet?'

'I wish very much, mamma, you would send and ask Uncle Frank if he will not come and see me
to-day.'

'I think it very improper, Harriet, for you to be sending for your uncle when you are under
Dr. Alsop's charge.'

'But, mamma, Uncle Frank does not prescribe for me. I do not send for him as my physician.'

'It looks very odd, though,' continued Mrs. Meeker, with increased irritation. 'I am sure Dr.
Alsop would not like it if he knew it.'

'Dr. Alsop met Uncle Frank here one day, and they appeared to be excellent friends. I am sure
there can be no misunderstanding on his part, and papa says he is quite willing.'

'Do as you like, child,' replied Mrs. Meeker. Then turning to the nurse she said, 'You may
ring, and send Thomas with a message from Miss Meeker, if she desires.'

'Thank you, dear mamma. If you will come to me, I will give you a kiss.'

The door closed before the sentence was finished, and Mrs. Meeker descends the staircase, passes
through the hall, and steps into the open air.

Alas, what is revealed to you! Marks, grim and ghastly marks of those years of wear and tear,
which the sunlight, that remorseless trier of woman's looks, makes quite apparent. What evidence
of irritability, of discontent, and general disappointment and disgust with everything and
all things, is revealed in those deep-cut lines and angles which in the light of day become
painfully visible under the delicate layers of Baume d'Osman, rouge, and pearl powder!

Mrs. Meeker adjusts her veil so as to hang gracefully down to the tip of her nose, and enters
her carriage.

I had nearly forgotten to point out a very genteel-looking young man in black, who wears a
distressingly long frock coat and a white neckcloth, who escorts Mrs. Meeker to her carriage,
and enters it after her.

Arabella has not lost her penchant for young clergymen, nor young clergymen for her.

Leaving Mrs. Meeker to her excursion, we go into the parlors.

On one of the sofas is a young fair girl, no more than eighteen years old. Her complexion,
eyes, and general cast of features, exhibit a striking likeness to her father. She is of medium
height, and her form is fine and well rounded. Add to these the adornments and appliances of
dress, and you have before you a very beautiful young woman.

Seated on the same sofa, and in very close proximity, is a person whose status it will be difficult
to decide from mere inspection. He is a tall, large, coarse-featured, but well-proportioned
man, with black hair, inclining to curl, dark complexion, and very black eyes. His age is possibly
thirty. He is showily dressed, with a vast expanse of cravat and waistcoat. Across the latter
stretches a very heavy gold chain, to which is attached a quantity of seals and other trinkets
known as charms. A massive ring, with coat of arms and crest carved on it, encircles the little
finger of the right hand. Every point of the dress and toilet is in keeping with what I have
already described. The hair dresser has been devoted. There has been no stint of oil and pomade
in the arrangement of whiskers and mustache. In short, judging the individual by a certain
standard, which passes current with a good many people, you would pronounce him remarkably
well 'got up.'

Looking at the fine and delicate-featured girl, in whose surroundings you behold evidences
of so much taste and refinement, you could scarcely be made to believe that the gross organization
by her side is to her liking. Yet I assure you she is in love with the handsome animal--'madly
in love' with him, as she herself avows!

This girl is the youngest of Hiram's three children. She is named for her mother, but is called
by all her acquaintance, Belle. And she is belle every way--except in temper and disposition.
Resembling her father so closely, she inherits her mother's jealous irritability and tyrannical
nature. She is beautiful only to look on. She is a spoiled child besides.

I cannot avow that Hiram has any genuine parental affection. He is so entirely absorbed in
gathering in his harvests from the golden fields at his command, that I think in God's providence
this is denied to him.

[Else he would exhibit some tenderness and love for the poor, sinking child who is lying in
her chamber, with no companion but her nurse.]

But there is that about the youngest which commends itself (I know no other way to express
it) to his senses. She is fair and young, and graceful and a beauty, and she resembles him;
and he loves to look at her and have her near him when he is at home, and to pet her, after a sort.

Hiram is too much occupied, however, to attend at all to the well-being of his children, and
his wife 'has no taste for anything of the kind.' So, as I said, Belle grows up a spoiled child.
She has never been subject to control, and has not the slightest idea of self-restraint.

This is her second season in society. She is universally admired--indeed, is quite 'the rage.'
'All the young men are dying for her'--I quote from the observations about town; but few have
the hardihood to pay serious court to the daughter of Hiram Meeker.

Yet you perceive one man has ventured--successfully ventured.

Who is he? I do not wonder you inquire with some degree of curiosity. I shall proceed to gratify
it.

The large, dark, coarse-visaged, foreign-looking fellow, who 'lives but to adore the angel
of beauty and perfection' at his side, and with whom the 'angel' is so blindly infatuated,
is Signor Filippo Barbonne, a second-rate performer of the last season's opera troupe!

It is a fact, reader, so it will be vain for me to deny it.

What, meantime, can I say by way of explanation? I hardly know. This Signor Filippo, who is
an impudent, audacious scamp, made the acquaintance of Belle two years ago, when she was a
schoolgirl. She was amused at seeing him follow her persistently, and at last she permitted
him to accost her.

The cunning fellow conducted himself with the utmost deference, not to say humility. He pretended
not to have the slightest knowledge who she was. He had been seized and subdued by her charms,
her loveliness; and it was quite sufficient happiness for him to be permitted to watch for
her and to tread in her steps day by day. He only wished to speak and tell her so, lest she
might suppose him disrespectful.

The ice once broken, arrangements for accidental meetings followed.

Signer Filippo did not disclose himself, except to say his position was so far below hers,
that he had but one hope, one aspiration, which was, that she would permit him to be her willing
slave forever. He asked and expected nothing beyond the privilege of worshipping her.

But how happens it that Belle Meeker is desperately in love with the Signor?

I will endeavor to explain.

Possessing not one spark of sentiment or native refinement, accustomed to no restraint on her
temper or will, she presents an example of a strong sensuous nature, uncontrolled by any fine
moral instincts or perceptions.

This is why in person and appearance Signor Filippo is quite to her taste. The wily adventurer
had made no mistake when he judged of the girl's nature. Understanding her arbitrary disposition,
and her impatience of any restraint whatever, he adroitly maintained his air of extreme deference
and respect, which was increased a thousand-fold on his discovering, as he pretended one day
to do, who the object of his adoration was.

What an agony he was in, lest now he should not be permitted even to look on her! Though assured
on this point, he became reserved and shy, giving vent to his impassioned feelings by sighs
and various mute but eloquent expressions.

Miss Belle began to be very impatient. These sentimental meetings had lasted more than a year.
Meantime, she was 'brought out.' This made it difficult for her to keep up her stolen interviews,
but she could now ask the Signor to the house.

To effect this, however, she must first bring over her mother. She informed her that the gentleman
was a Neapolitan Count, who from political motives was forced to remain perdu for a time, and
so forth, and so forth, and so forth. By dint of entreaty and argument, and exhibition of much
temper, Belle persuaded her mother to say nothing to her father about the visits of this Count
in disguise. The truth is, Mrs. Meeker had sometimes to request Belle's silence about little
matters involving some expenditures which Mr. Meeker might consider extravagant. So, with occasional
protests on her part, the Signor was permitted to make his visits.

Belle was too shrewd to attempt to impose on her father in such a case. She knew she could
not succeed for a minute. So the intimacy is continued without his knowledge.

Long before this, she has been told by the Signor who he really is. He admits his late position
in the troupe, but has a long story to recount of adverse fortune, and so on. His respectful
manner still continues; it is the young lady who woos.

What is to be done? This state of things cannot last forever. Belle is more and more impatient.
Her adorer still respectful and sad.

After this long but necessary digression, I return to our place in the front parlor, where
the lovers are seated.

'I must leave you, oh, my angel--I must leave you! It is nearly time for your father to be here.'

'I do not care if it is. I want you to stay.'

'As you will, but--'

'If you really loved me, you would not be so indifferent,' exclaims the young lady, passionately.

Then follows a scene. The result is, that Belle vows she will endure the suspense no longer.
She will not ask her father's permission--she will marry him--yes, she will marry the Signor;
and who dare prevent, who dare thwart her wishes!

The Signor takes impressive leave. His little plot approaches a dénouement. He walks with an
'air noble' down the steps, and, mounting his phaeton, he takes the ribbons from the servant
in gay livery, and the tandem team, after some well-trained prancing, dash forward.

Miss Belle is at the window, a delighted witness of the spectacle.

[The Signor has got up this fine turn-out, through aid of a friend who is in the plot, especially
to captivate her.]

'What a singular man!' she exclaims to herself. 'How heroic he seems, controlling those wild
creatures! Strange he should always be so diffident when in my society. There shall be an end
of this; I cannot endure it!'

Presently she sees her father mount the steps, and runs to meet him, a little doubtful whether
or not he beheld her lover start from before the door.

The greeting is most affectionate; Belle throws her arms caressingly around her father's neck.

'Who is our new visitor, Belle, who indulges in a tandem?' said Hiram, turning his penetrating
eyes on his daughter, but with no suspicious glance.

'New visitor! What do you mean, papa?'

'I thought I saw a phaeton drive from here.'

'Oh, that was at Mrs. Longworth's. Such a handsome man, though, papa! I was at the window when
he got in.'

Hiram patted his daughter's cheek playfully, and passed in. Keen and discerning as he was,
his child could deceive him.

'Where is your mamma?' he asked.

'Out for a drive.'

'Is Gus at home?'

'No, papa; I have not seen him to-day.'

'Give orders to have dinner served punctually. I must go out immediately after.'

CHAPTER II.

I have spoken of Hiram's three children.

The individual referred to in the last chapter as 'Gus' is the oldest, and the only son. He
is, at this period, about twenty-three years of age.

His father undertook to bring him up in a very strict manner. He could, however, give none
of his time to the important business of starting his son in the right path, and aiding him
to continue in it. It was enough for Hiram that he was secure. He contented himself with laying
down severe courses, and holding his boy to the strictest fulfilment of 'duty.'

The result can readily be imagined. The young man, as he grew up and understood fully his father's
position, came to the conclusion that it was quite unnecessary for him to practise the strict
habits which had been so despotically inculcated. So he gave loose rein to his fancies, and
while yet in college was one of the wildest in the class. By his mother's interposition, he
was sent abroad. He came back all the worse for the year's sojourn, and, young as he was, soon
got to be a regular 'man about town.' He lived at home--ostensibly; but he was seldom to be
seen in the house. He had come to entertain very little respect for his father; for he had
a sort of native insight into his character. He constantly complains of his miserly treatment,
though Hiram makes his son a respectable allowance--more, I think, to be rid of the annoyance
of his repeated and incessant applications, than for any other reason.

'Gus' was a favorite with his mother (I forgot to say she had named him Augustus Myrtle Meeker,
with her husband's full consent), and heavy were the drafts he made on her purse. This was
a point of constant discussion between Mr. and Mrs. Meeker. It was of no use. The lady continued
to indulge her only son, and her husband to protest against it.

Of late, Gus had been in possession of pretty large sums of money, which he certainly had not
obtained either from his father or mother. And it was something connected with this circumstance
which takes Hiram out immediately after dinner.

I think it is in place here to say something of Hiram Meeker's domestic life.

Taking 'Arabella' for just what the reader knows her to be, it is probable he has made her
a better husband than ninety-nine men of a hundred would have made. True, he is master, in
every respect. But this is just what Arabella requires. She would have been the death of any
ordinary man in a short time. There is not the slightest danger of her injuring Hiram's prospects
of a long life, or of causing him an hour's uneasiness. To be sure, he is despotic, but he
is neither irritable nor unamiable. Besides, he has a great desire for social position (it
aids in carrying out his plans), in which his wife is of real service. Hiram, although close
and careful in all matters, is not what would be called penurious. In other words, he makes
liberal provision for his household, while he rules it with rigor; besides, in petty things
he has not proved a tyrant.

On the whole, we repeat our conviction that Arabella has been fortunate in her husband. To
be sure, she is fretful, discontented, peevish, irritable, cross; but that is her normal condition.
At times Hiram has treated her with severity, but never cruelty. He has borne quietly and with
patience what would have set most husbands frantic; and has contented himself with remaining
silent, when many would have been tempted to positive acts of violence.

Toward his sick child Hiram Meeker's conduct has been exemplary--that is the word. He considers
the affliction a direct chastening of him from the Lord; and 'whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth.'
He spends some moments with his daughter daily, but he has no more sympathy for her situation
than if his heart were made of leather. Yet the best care is provided, the best medical attendance,
and everything done for the poor girl which is proper. Hiram even overrules his wife in many
things where he thinks her severe toward the invalid, as in the instance of her wishing to
see her Uncle Frank, who is our old acquaintance 'Doctor Frank,' as you no doubt understand--now
one of the first medical men of New York.

Although there has never been the least cordiality between the brothers since the Doctor came
to the city, still they have kept on visiting terms. The Doctor has taken a deep interest in
his invalid niece, and she is never so happy as when he is talking with her. He has told her
to send for him at any time when she feels disposed to do so, and he is a frequent visitor.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was late before Mrs. Meeker returned. Something occurred to give her excursion a very unpleasant
direction. She was engaged in turning over some new silks at Stewart's, while the young clerical
gentleman stood admiringly by, when a man of very coarse appearance and vulgar aspect approached
and placed a letter before her.

Mrs. Meeker was prepared to utter a faint shriek, but it occurred to her that it would not
appear well where she was. The young clerical gentleman cast a look of disgust and indignation
on the intruder, who did not stop to resent it, but turned quickly on his heel and left the place.

Mrs. Meeker, after waiting a moment to regain her composure, opened the note, and read as follows:

     'DEAR MA: Come to me directly, and bring all the money you
     can. I am in a terrible fix! GUS.'

Mrs. Meeker pushed aside the rich purple silk she was examining, with so much suddenness, that
the young clerical gentleman could not but notice it.

'My dear madam, are you ill?' he asked, with a show of devotion distressing to witness.

'No, oh no; but this moment I recollect I have a commission to execute for a friend, which
I had quite forgotten. And, do you know, I am going to ask you to drive home, and tell Belle
not to delay dinner for me.'

The young clerical gentleman bowed in acquiescence. For him to hear was to obey. But he felt
curious to know what was the cause of so abrupt a termination of the afternoon's shopping.

'I hope there was nothing unpleasant in that letter?'

It was presuming a good deal to ask such a question, but the young clerical gentleman could
not restrain his curiosity.

'That letter!' exclaimed Mrs. Meeker, now quite herself again--'no, indeed; it is only a word
from Augustus. What a queer creature, to send it by such a horrid fright of a man!' And Mrs.
Meeker laughed.

The young clerical gentleman was thrown completely off the scent. He bowed and hurried to the
carriage, leaving Mrs. Meeker still at the counter.

She looked carelessly over the different patterns, and said, in a languid tone, 'I think I
will not buy anything to-day,' to which the clerk obsequiously assented--he well knew whom
he was serving--and Mrs. Meeker left the store.

Her carriage was out of sight; first she assured herself of that. Then she called a hack, and
ordered it to be driven to a distant quarter of the city.

The carriage stopped at the number indicated in the note. Mrs. Meeker was met at the door by
her son, who conducted her to a back room in the third story. It was dirty and in disorder.
Bottles, wine glasses, and tumblers were scattered around, and the atmosphere was full of the
fumes of whiskey and tobacco.

What a spot for the son of Hiram Meeker to select, in which to receive his mother's visit!

What a place for the fastidious Arabella to enter!

THE GREAT AMERICAN CRISIS.

PART TWO.

We come, in this paper, to the consideration of the possible results which this war might have,
viewed from the beginning; of the several modes, in other words, in which it might terminate.
The most distant extremes of possible eventuality were the entire conquest of the North by
the South, and the entire conquest of the Southern rebellion by the North, so as to secure
the continuance of the old Union upon the old basis; or with such modifications as the changed
condition of things at the South might require. The supposition of the conquest of the Northern
States by the Southern Vandals has been already glanced at and sufficiently considered for
so remote and improbable a contingency. The counter supposition of the entire success of the
United States Government in the reassertion of its own authority over the whole of its original
domain, divided, at the commencement of the war, into two branches.

It was the general theory at the North, at that time, that the animus of rebellion was confined
at the South to comparatively few minds, and that the war was to be a war, not against the
South as a people, but against a tyrannical and usurping faction at the South, and for the
defence of the people at large residing in that region. There was a modicum of truth in this
theory, but events have shown, and any one who knew the South well might safely have predicted,
that the whole people there would soon be subdued to the authority of those few. Such was the
terror throughout the confederacy, and still is, where the facts have not been already changed
by the war, at the mere imputation of sympathy with anti-slavery sentiment in any form, that
a part, hardly one tenth even of the whole, in numerical strength, could successfully put the
remaining nine tenths into Coventry, and bully them out of all expression of adverse opinion,
by simply threatening to accuse them of abolition tendencies. No people on earth were ever
so completely cowed by the nightmare of unpopular opinion as the people of the South. Hence
whatever was violently advocated under pretence of excessive devotion to, or ultra championship
of the cause of slavery, was sure in the end to succeed. By this process, the Union party at
the South has been gradually overawed and diminished for years past, and finally driven, since
the outbreak of the rebellion, into a complete surrender to, and a full coöperation with the
rebel chiefs. Whatever may seem to be the reaction in behalf of Union sentiment, as the triumphant
armies of the North march to the Gulf, it will be long before the real opinion of the masses
will declare itself in full as it exists. The fear of the renewal of the old terrorism, so
soon as our armies shall be withdrawn, will effectually prevent the free expression of the
favorable sentiment which has heretofore existed, and still exists, as a substratum of Southern
opinion in favor of the Union, unless the Northern conquest is made unquestionably final.

In the event that the theory just stated should have proved true, that, aided by the presence
of Northern troops, there should have been a loyal sentiment sufficiently powerful and extended
to reassert itself, in the extreme South, and that, consequently, all the Southern States should
have been again represented in Congress at an early day, and should again have taken their
places as equal partners under the Constitution of our common country, it seemed just possible
that the results of the war should be confined, in their immediate action, to what may be called
its educational effects upon the Southern mind and its economical bearings upon the wealth
and industry of the nation.

As the other branch of the alternative, the South might have to be conquered by the force of
our arms, and might remain unanimously, or in vast preponderance, disloyal and rebellious in
spirit. In that event, it would be requisite, if those States were to be retained at all as
part of the Union, that they should be reconsigned to the Territorial condition, or otherwise
governed still by the central authority.

In the former of these two latter suppositions: that of the reëstablishment of the old status,
it was foreseen by some, as not impossible, that the final result might prove disastrous to
the freedom of the North. With the advent of peace, the suspicions of the Northern people with
regard to the designs and real character of Southern men would have been allayed. A certain
appeal would even have been made, by the suggestions of their own generosity, to the hearts
of Northern men to lay aside all hostile and adverse action as against the South, and to welcome
them with open arms to all the rights and privileges of the common country. Meantime, a horde
of unscrupulous machinators would have been installed in the seats of power at Washington,
and would have recommenced operations, in the consciousness of the new strength acquired in
the field from which they had just retired, with all the chicanery and craft with which heretofore
they had blinded the North and secretly controlled the destinies of our Government. Southern
men and Southern women would again have been feasted and feted at Northern hotels and watering
places, and again have given tone to Northern opinion, while new and especial reasons would
have seemed to exist for opposing countervailing influences, as unnecessary agitation, and
causes of the retention of acrimonious feeling between the two sections, which had now resolved
to live in amity with each other. In a word, all the sources of corruption of Northern sentiment,
emanating from the South, would have been renewed in their operation, with some circumstances
added, tending to give to them greater potency than ever before.

Undoubtedly, immense advantages were to be contemplated in the restoration of the United States
to their primitive boundaries and united power. But it was not without deep apprehension of
moral taint and ulterior evil consequences, that a wise patriot could look even then to any
attempt of the old matrimonial partners to dwell again in a common household, upon the old
terms, and with no real settlement of the dispute between them.

The latter of these suppositions, the remanding of a hostile and rebellious tier of States,
who had long and proudly enjoyed the dignity of State sovereignty, to a subordinate condition,
had also its proportion of difficulty and danger. To carry out a programme of this kind would
demand a great increase of the army and navy, and would give to the military spirit and power
a preponderance in the councils of the nation which has always been deemed dangerous to the
liberties of the country. A constant drain of expenditure of the resources of the nation; a
continuous unrest and anxiety of the whole people; a succession of outbreaks and partial renewals
of the civil war; the installation of a necessary system of proconsular or viceroyal commissions;
the appointment of men who, whether as provost-marshals, dictators, or what not, would be in
the stated exercise of authority unmeasured by the theories of republican policy--all these
were serious and threatening considerations, which must give the thoughtful mind some pause
ere it entered upon their adoption.

There were other remaining possible suppositions in respect to the termination of the war,
of a middling character, or those lying between the two opposite extremes. In case, without
any positive conquest or submission on either side, the general tenor of success throughout
the war should be with the South, so that it finally behooved the North to secure the most
favorable terms, but to submit, nevertheless, to great deductions from its confident expectations,
a theory then not wholly impossible, we had to contemplate, as one evil of the war, a final
disruption of the original territory of the United States into two nationalities, coincident,
as to boundary, with the Free and the Slave States. Except in the way of absolute conquest,
the South would be little inclined to insist upon the addition to itself of any territory absolutely
free. We were not required, therefore, to make this supposition any less favorable to the North
than the division just suggested; and unless, again, power had been acquired by the South to
impose terms on the North little short of those which a conqueror imposes on a conquered people,
the North, within its own limit of Free States, would be left in a condition boldly to announce
and actively to defend its own legitimate policy in behalf of the extension of free institutions
and their development to the supreme degree of beneficent truth.

But again, it might have been foreseen that in case the eagle of victory should perch on the
banners of the North; in case our arms should be generally victorious after a few incipient
disasters; in case our armies should move in power southward, meeting, nevertheless, a steady
and resisting front on the part of the South, making the prospect of ultimate conquest remote
or hopeless; in case, in a single word, the North should find herself in position to dictate
terms short of absolute submission and return to the common fold, but substantially in accordance
with her own wishes, the question of boundary and of the future policy of the new North would
have become one of immense importance.

Had such considerations been forced on the attention of the country by the course of the war,
it may not be uninteresting to speculate upon the nature of the possible boundary, which a
drawn game in the contest--a possibility at least, viewed from that early point of observation--might
have imposed upon the two future nationalities. We are considering the case still in which
the preponderance of advantage should have remained with the North. It would have been, in
that event, of the first importance that we should retain within the limits of the North all
that portion of the South--by no means inconsiderable in extent--which has never been thoroughly
debauched by Southern slaveholding opinion and theories of government; where the true American
feeling is still extant; and where a good degree of loyalty to the Government of the United
States has been hitherto exhibited. Such are especially Delaware, Maryland, Western Virginia,
Kentucky, Western North Carolina, Eastern, and to some extent, Middle Tennessee, Northern Georgia,
Northern Alabama, and Missouri. An important object would have been, had the power of the North
proved inadequate to do more, to secure this territory within the boundary of the new North,
and upon such terms as to give strength and new impetus to the freedom-loving sentiment there
extant. A second object would have been the retention of Washington City, to be used, at least
for the time being, as the capital of the country; avoiding the disgrace of being driven from
that centre of national authority; and to secure it on terms in respect to territorial arrangement
which should prevent it from being continually threatened from the South. To this end, it would
have been necessary that the boundary be carried far enough south to include a portion of Northern
and Northeastern Virginia, as thoroughly imbued at that day with slaveholding faith and practice,
and as little loyal, perhaps, as any portion of the South--a region, however, which at this
time has been so completely devastated by the operations of the war, that it would be readily
liable to be resettled from the North, and made into an efficient military border.

If, retaining Fortress Monroe, we should then have run with the James River and the line of
Richmond and Lynchburg, or if, ascending higher to the Chesapeake Bay and the Rappahannock,
we were to run with the line of Fredericksburg, we should reach either the Blue Ridge or the
Alleghany Mountains, as in the case of power on our part, we might have chosen. With these
mountains, sweeping in a southwesterly direction into Northern Georgia and Alabama, runs the
line of division between the 'true-blue' Southern slaveholding opinion and policy, on the south
and east, and the semi-Free-State opinion and policy on the north and west. One or other of
these mountain ranges, with their unfrequent and difficult passes, would have offered the best
natural boundary between the two future nations, whose divergent national tendencies would
not have ceased with the nominal termination of the war to be essentially hostile.

Following this line till we reach the Tennessee river, thence along the course of that stream,
turning northwardly to the Ohio, or more properly, perhaps, to the southern line of Kentucky,
we exclude the most pestilent portion of Tennessee, of which Memphis is the capital, and retain
the middle and eastern parts, along with Eastern Kentucky and Western Virginia. Thence passing
westward with the southern line of Missouri to the Indian Territory, thence southward with
the western line of Arkansas to the Red river, thence westward along that river as the boundary
between the Indian Territory and Texas, to the one hundredth degree of longitude west from
Greenwich, and with that meridian south, to the Rio Grande and the Gulf--dividing the western
from the eastern half of Texas--we circumscribe very fairly the exact region of country in
which the slaveholding epidemic is violent and intense, and throw within the limits of the
great Northern Republic all of the region in which freedom is already established, and all
that in which, as above stated, there was still a surviving and half vital tendency in freedom's
behalf.

In addition to a boundary so favorable to ourselves, and forced by our commanding position
upon our unwilling adversary, we might have imposed upon her such other terms in relation to
her foreign policy, custom-house regulations, and the like, as the extent of our power should
have authorized. We might even have consigned the Southern States to a species of provisional
and quasi nationality, with the claim and expectation of their ultimate return within the pale
of the Union, when, through the severe ordeal of military despotism or anarchy at home, or
from other causes, they should have purged themselves of that institution, adverse to all our
policy, which has been the sole cause of all our woes.

Still more important it would have been, under the theory of this essentially victorious position
of the Northern people, that Northern opinion and the purposes of Americanism on this continent--the
assertion and defence of freedom and of free institutions of all sorts--should have been distinctly,
peremptorily, and finally impressed upon the character and future career of our own Northern
nationality. While those portions of slaveholding territory which would still have remained
within the Union, would have had, of course, to be treated with courtesy and consideration,
if the institution of slavery were to have been permitted to survive, they should have been
thoroughly made to know from the first, that slavery among us was no longer to be regarded
as a perpetuity; that it was only tolerated provisionally; and that we, as a people, had no
intention of permitting its renewed influence in the councils of the nation. Cut off as these
States would then have been from the possibilities of carrying on an inter-State slave trade
with the Southern confederacy, the institution of slavery would have lost much of its value
and potency; and allied, as those States would have been, as a small minority, with a country
whose territorial and institutional preponderance would have been wholly in favor of freedom,
we might have anticipated that, if closely watched and incidentally aided in its decline, the
institution in these adhering slaveholding States would have reached its term of existence
at no very distant day; at any rate, that it would, from the first, have been neutralized for
any serious bad effects which it might have otherwise impressed upon our healthy national life.
It was even worth reflection at that time whether, if the whole adjustment of the future were
placed at our own disposition, there would not be less danger incurred, and more promise of
a prompt, healthy, and powerful development on this continent of those grand purposes of national
existence which the true American people have always had in view and at heart, if this plan
were to be adopted, than if, on the contrary, the whole South were either quiescently, by the
subsidence of the rebellion, or forcibly, to be reinstated within the limits of the Union,
the institution of slavery remaining intact.

Northeastern Virginia, Southern Maryland, and portions of Kentucky, Middle Tennessee, and Middle
Missouri would still have furnished pestilent centres of intense slaveholding sentiment, and
would have required, perhaps, as much exercise of vigilance in preventing their undue influence
as our usually sleepy habits of inattention to such causes would have authorized us to count upon.

With the gradual decline of this remnant of slavery in the Northern Union, and with the thousand
contingencies threatening its perpetuity in the Southern States, after the sustaining influence
of the North in its behalf should have been finally withdrawn, the anticipation would not have
been without high grounds of probability, that the institution, as a whole, would have hastened
more or less rapidly to its final dissolution; and that, one by one, the States of the South,
ridding themselves of the incubus of slavery and its comcomitants--oligarchic, mobocratic,
and military despotism--would have sought, for their own protection and happiness, to reënter
the original Union as Free States. Such an issue of the conflict might at the commencement
of the war have been looked forward to as almost fortunate, and as perhaps that which Providence
had in store for us as a people. That larger measure of success, the entire destruction of
slavery throughout the land, now rapidly coming to be a foregone conclusion in most minds,
was then hardly hoped for by the most sanguine, although, as will appear by what follows, that
alternative was then anticipated by the writer.

Finally, in case the war should have proved a drawn game between the two sections, with no
special advantage on either side, some middle ground of adjustment between the two last suppositions
might have been sought out, and an irregular line, running anywhere between Mason and Dixon's
line and the Ohio, on the one hand, and the Blue Ridge and the Tennessee river on the other,
might have been forced upon us. In that event, a long-continued border warfare would have been
to be anticipated, with innumerable complex difficulties from expenditure in the protection
of the irregular and imperfect boundary, the collection of the revenues, and the like.

The reason why we have chosen, in these glances at the possible outcomings of the conflict,
to go back to the state of the case as it was at the opening of the war, and to view the subject
as it would present itself to the mind of a thoughtful man then, is, that this very paper was
originally written at that day, and is now only recast to adapt it to the altered events from
the actual progress of the war. The boundary line above sketched, as one which the nation might
possibly find itself compelled to accept, was sketched, as it stands above, at that time, nearly
two and a half years ago; and the reader will hardly fail to be struck with the remarkable
coincidence between it and the present state of the military lines between the Northern and
Southern armies; except in the fact of our actual possession of the Mississippi river to its
mouth, cutting the Southern confederacy in twain. Had the defences below New Orleans proved
impregnable, and Vicksburg more than a match for the strategy of General Grant, our present
position would be almost identical with that contemplated by the writer at that early period
of the war, as one of the alternative positions at which the struggle might at least temporarily
terminate; and our present military line would be almost the same as that indicated as the
halting point of the war, then to be nominally but not really brought to an end. The pages
following, and until the reader is advised to the contrary, are literally extracted from the
original article, and should be read therefore as relating to the past period in question.
Quotation marks are added to aid this understanding of the subject. They indicate, in this
exceptional way, not literally the words of another writer, but those of the same writer, upon
a different occasion.

'We have reserved to the last the consideration of that possible outcoming of the war which
is looked upon with most dread, both at the South and the North; from which both sections almost
equally shrink as the possible issue; but which, nevertheless, may be forced on them by the
logic of events, and that, too, at an earlier day than has been indicated by the expectations
of either. While we write, the startling announcement is made from St. Louis that Major-General
Fremont has been forced, by the threatening progress of the Southern armies, to declare martial
law for the whole State of Missouri, coupled with the offer of freedom to the slaves. A military
critic, writing from the Potomac and the lower counties of Maryland, is urging the application
of the same policy to that region, as a means of defeating the contemplated passage of the
river by the forces of the South. Whether the rumor so announced prove to be literally correct
or not, it is hardly possible that the war can continue long, and grow desperate and earnest
on any territory where slavery exists, without leading to this result. Tenderness and deference
are sentiments which must soon give place to the stern struggle for life between hostile and
desperate men. Already the South has not hesitated, in some instances, to muster her slaves
into armed regiments, and in all cases to avail herself of their brawny arms as equally valuable
assistants in the work of fortification, camp service, and all the other incidents of war.
Still further, as a great body of laborers, undisturbed by the war, quietly conducting the
general industry at home, and providing the means of sustaining immense armies in the field,
the slaves are, in effect, an important auxiliary of the enemy's power. Already the Congress
of the United States has passed a law for the confiscation of all property so used, so stringent
in its terms that, without much strain of legal ingenuity, it might be made to cover the whole
case. The threatened continuance of disaster to Northern arms may at any moment force upon
our generals the military necessity of declaring emancipation within a given district or State,
and finally, it may be incumbent on the Government to resort to the same policy in reference
to the whole South. The contest is one of life and death for the greatest human interests ever
brought face to face in hostile array. But a single step is wanting, and we may at any moment
be forced over the boundary which hitherto has prevented it from being a conflict avowedly
for the utter extinction of the institution of slavery on the North American continent, on
the one hand, and for the triumphant establishment of the policy and power of that institution
over the whole land on the other.

'In case such an event as that above alluded to should occur, a new disappointment will probably,
to some extent, break upon the Northern mind. It will be found that the slaves of the South
are not, as a body, so desirous of freedom, not so consciously intent upon the attainment of
that boon, as ardent philanthropists at the North have supposed. The great masses of that population
are too far depressed in the scale of humanity to avail themselves earnestly and at once, of
even the most favorable means which should be placed at their disposal to secure their own
emancipation from thraldom.

'To progress, even from slavery to freedom, is progression, nevertheless; and, as such, it
is beset with all the hindrances and prejudices from ignorance and superstition which the advancement
of the race meets always and at every step. Those among the slaves who fully appreciate the
disadvantages of their position, and are earnestly intent upon the achievement of freedom,
are a minority--the vigorous thinkers and reformers of the slave-population. The great masses
are stupid and conservative, in the midst of the evil which they endure, until aroused by circumstances
or the appeals of their more enterprising leaders. Even John Brown, knowing as much as he did
of the South and of the negro character, miscalculated the readiness of the slaves of Virginia
to fly to his standard, judging them by his knowledge of the readiness of Missouri slaves upon
the Kansas border, who, through a few years of local agitation, had come to be on the alert
and ready to move.

'In case, therefore, of the proclamation of emancipation in any slaveholding districts by our
military chiefs, it will not be surprising if, for a time, the results of that step shall seem
to be feeble, and shall be disproportionate to the expectations based upon it.

'The course of events will probably be this: The emancipation of slaves by the proclamation
of Northern generals will be followed by a partial tendency on the part of the slave-population
to flock to their camps in a way similar to what has already happened in the neighborhood of
Fortress Monroe; and this, again, by mustering them into our service, arming and drilling them
as part of the regular and effective force of our armies, after the example of General Jackson
in the defence of New Orleans, and other Southern generals on various occasions in the South.
A step like this will be met by a nearly or precisely similar expedient of desperate necessity
by the military chieftains of the South. Either with or without the offer of emancipation,
they will muster the blacks in great numbers into their army, arming, equipping, and drilling
them as thoroughly as the same offices are performed for the white soldiers.

'Things may seem to stand much upon this footing, and no great advantage have been gained by
the North through emancipation, until, in the event of some great battle, or successively through
a series of local contests, the blacks in the Southern army will fraternize with those of the
North, and go over in a body to their Northern allies, so soon as the course of events shall
have informed them somewhat of the true state of the case, and have given them confidence in
the earnest intention of the Northern troops to stand by them in the assertion of their freedom.
A defection of this kind would carry dismay and insure defeat throughout the whole South, especially
if it were vigorously followed up by the same policy and by adequate military skill on the
part of the North; and the result of a war so inaugurated could hardly fail to be the rapid
and complete disorganization of the whole system of Southern industry and the total revolution
and final submission of the Southern States.

'No man can exactly foresee the consequences of so great a conflict, nor predict with any certainty
the course of events through such an untried and tremendous pathway; but it is next to impossible
to conceive that the Southern war-spirit could in any way long survive the disasters inevitably
consequent upon the general prevalence of a claim to freedom by the slaves, upon any legal
basis, suddenly diffused throughout the South. Should the alternative be forced upon the people
of that region, of submission, or servile in addition to civil war, their troubles will thicken
upon them to a degree calculated to calm their over-excited imaginations, and to subdue their
vaulting ambition. Panic will come to their own doors with a new and all-pervading significance,
such as the North hardly knows how to conceive. The North should abstain to the last moment
from thrusting even enemies into calamity so dire. But, if the arrogance and madness of the
South shall force on us, now or later, this terrific resort, the world may witness, as the
result of this war, the most tremendous retribution for national and organic sin which any
people has ever yet been called on to endure. The Nemesis of History may, perhaps, impress
the darkest record of her terrible sanctions on the page which records the termination of the
great American Rebellion.

'In the event last supposed, that is to say, if the war shall end in the entire extinction
of American slavery, the state in which the Southern country, with its diverse populations,
will find itself placed; the future destiny of the cotton-growing region, of the South generally;
of our whole country, and of the continent, under this immense change of our condition as a
nation, are subjects of sufficient importance to demand, on some future occasion, a distinct
consideration. Enough points have been crowded, in this article, upon the reflections of the
reader. History must not be too audaciously anticipated. The phases of the great crisis, already
developed and developing, are sufficiently grave and numerous for the present occasion. Let
the future withdraw her own veil from our eyes, while we reverentially await the revelation
of coming events.

'All the forbearance hitherto on the part of the North, may have had in it an element of wisdom.
It is not the object of this paper to criticize or complain of the past conduct of the war,
nor to urge on the Government to convert a war, begun for the resistance of a violent and fraudulent
dismemberment of the Union, into a war against slavery or a crusade in behalf of human rights.
There is no present purpose on the part of the writer to conduct the discussion--far less to
attempt the decision--of so grave a question of national policy at this eventful and critical
epoch in the affairs of our national life. No doubt the subject stands as yet complicated in
the minds of statesmen with the possibilities of the early and frank submission of the South,
and the consequent early reëstablishment substantially of the status quo ante bellum; with
the dread of inflicting measureless calamity upon those who are at heart faithful to our cause
in the South; and, most of all, with the interests and feelings of the population of the few
slaveholding States remaining faithful to the Union. The object of the present article is simply
to lay open the true state of the case; to reveal to the Northern mind in a clearer light,
if possible, the causes emanating from the South, which have gone and which go still to the
formation of Northern opinion adversely to the spirit of our own institutions, and begetting,
unconsciously in ourselves, a secret treasonable sympathy at the bottom of our own hearts;
a sympathy which is the parent of that otherwise unaccountable tenderness on our part in respect
to the patent weakness of the enemy's defences. It is not that we counsel, for the present,
a change in the tenor of the war, but that we wish, as the logic of circumstances shall force
this question upon us, that we may come to the consideration of it, in the future, disabused
of any preconceived prejudices in favor of that which is the vital source of all the trouble
which exists, and fully armed by a complete understanding of the subject.'

So ended the original paper, the same, with a few changes of the tense-forms to adapt it to
the present time, as the Part One, published in the last number of THE CONTINENTAL, and Part
Two of this series up to this point. The document was written for publication at that time,
more than two years ago, but no periodical was found then ready to indulge in such bold speculations
on the future. What has now in great part become history, was deemed too audacious for the
public ear then. Perhaps no better gauge of the progress of events and opinion could have happened.
A magazine article, rejected so recently, as too radical or wild in its prognostications, now
stands in danger of being thought tame, in the light of the changes already effected. Thrown
into a drawer as refuse matter, it has been like the log of a ship thrown overboard, and remaining
quiescent, while the winds, the waves, and the current have combined to surge the vessel onward
in her course; and, hauled in by the line at this hour, it may serve to chronicle the rate
of our speed.

Events hurry forward in this age with tremendous velocity. Great as has been the progress of
our arms, numerous as our warlike achievements and advantages, the real victories we have won
are, in the truest method of judging, the victories of opinion which have occurred and are
now occurring. Our greatest conquest, as a people, is, and is to be, the conquest over our
own prejudices; our highest attainment the readiness to be just, and to act with the boldness
and vigor which justice requires.

Taking things as they now are, let us again try to penetrate the future, or at least to sketch
different alternatives of what may happen. Let us then try to catch the spirit of each alternative,
and so be prepared to draw from the event such of good, and to guard against such of evil as
each may involve.

As a first alternative, we may now speedily conquer the South. Insurrection may spring up in
the South, against the insurrection there, and in aid of our arms. New vigor and new fortune
may attend our own military operations; and our future military task may--somewhat contrary
to our expectations, we confess--prove easy, and its conclusion close at hand. In that event,
dangers of another kind, dangers already alluded to as existing at the commencement of the
war, and hardly less to be apprehended now than then, hardly less, indeed, than the indefinite
continuance of war, threaten the future of our political horizon. We may see in a few months'
time the very men who are leading the armies and the councils of the Southern confederacy again
cracking the whip of their sharp and arrogant logic about the ears of the men who had conquered
them in the field of battle; claiming to dictate every political measure; forcing the mould
of their thought upon every form of opinion, and, by astute political combinations, wielding
the destiny of the nation in behalf of slavery and despotism, and against the principle of
freedom. Do not imagine for an instant that any considerations of modesty or humiliation on
the one hand, nor of haughtiness or pride on the other, would stand in the way of the immediate
participation of those men in our affairs. Let there be no delusions either, with regard to
the ability of the same leading class of men to keep themselves in the saddle at the South,
through all political changes not involving the absolute destruction of slavery, and the complete
and consolidated establishment of other institutions and habits of life among the people at
large;--the virtual creation, in fact, of a new and different population, by the blending of
our own Northern men and manners with the feeble indigenous freedom-loving growth. The return
of this dominant class of cotton lords among the common masses of a Southern population anywhere,
on any terms short of the utter extinction of their basis of wealth and distinction, will be
the return of an armed overseer to a cowering mob of insubordinate slaves. The mere assertion
of their authority will be its instant acceptance, and the most abject submission by the people.
They will only have to demand reëlection to the National Congress, and to every place of power,
to be reinstated in precisely their old position, their arrogance and self-assertion only augmented
by their having met and survived every disaster short of the destruction of the source of their
superiority.

Already schemes to restore the old State governments are rife, in respect to Louisiana, Mississippi,
and other of the rebel States, now again brought within our military lines. Let this be done
upon the old footing at an early day, for these States and for the others, which under the
hypothesis now under consideration, will soon be subjugated; let the Emancipation Proclamation
fall into desuetude; let the military authority of our army officers be withdrawn, and there
is nothing in the character of the Southern slaveholding aristocracy, and no other power on
earth, to prevent their flocking in crowds and at the very first general election back to Washington,
reuniting their forces with the old body of profligate political hacks at the North, and flaunting
with increased presumption and activity the pretensions of slavery to dictate the whole policy
of the land. In that event, a strong party, more distinctively proslavery and Southern than
ever before, will be organized; more openly and shamelessly than ever devoted to the destruction
of the last remnant of American liberty. Of course there will be a new reaction against the
new usurpation. The conflict will be renewed, beginning precisely where the first war began,
with the only exception that the issue will be then more distinctly understood, the conflict
more desperate, and the result more definitive.

It is of the utmost importance that the true nature of the case be understood: that this war
is no accident of the hour, no merely political or national event even. It is a death struggle
between two antagonist civilizations; if indeed one of them can be called a civilization, and
not rather a conspiracy against the very idea of civilization. Again, the men involved in that
conspiracy are not hidalgos, ancien régime, nor any of the proud aristocracies of the old world,
who, when beaten, retire upon their dignity and hide their time. They are, on the contrary,
an enterprising gang of desperadoes, who for the nonce may find it convenient to play the rôle
of high life and dignified pretension, but who, on the slightest change of circumstances, are
ready for any shift, any seeming degradation or humiliation, any temporary lowering of their
claims, in order to rise higher on the next wave. There is also enough of the savage and barbarous
element of character remaining in the Southern bogus chivalry to make them, like the Chinaman
or the Japanese, incapable of appreciating magnanimity. All conciliation or clemency will be
construed into weakness; generosity and forbearance into poltroonery. These are sad truths;
but being truths, the failure to know them in season may cost us another and a more desperate
war, with more doubtful and dangerous results.

Let us once surrender, through national verdancy, sentimental commiseration, misunderstanding
of the nature and purposes of our enemy, or any or all of these causes combined with others,
the dear-bought advantages we have won, and disasters untold involve the future of the land.
Terrible beyond description will be, in that event, the condition of the Union and emancipationist
party now incipiently developing itself at the South;--abandoned and deserted by the withdrawal
of the actual presence and protection of Northern arms. No barbarism on earth, no savagism
extant, is so barbarous or so savage as the ruthless vengeance with which this hybrid civilization
of the South is ready at any time to visit the crime of abolitionism; and seven times hotter
than usual will the furnace of their wrath be heated against Southern men who under the ægis
of Northern protection shall have exhibited some sympathy with freedom.

That a powerful Northern party will immediately arise in behalf of the simple readmission of
the Southern States, upon precisely the old basis, when the war shall end by the suppression
of the rebellion, is certain. The existence of such a party will rest, in part, upon a real
sympathy with the South and the rebellion; partly upon interested political motives of a more
ordinary and short-sighted character; and, in still greater part than either of these, upon
the easy credence and insufficient information of the great mass of the Northern people; somewhat,
indeed, upon a magnanimity highly creditable to their character as men, but unwise and dangerous
in the extreme, in any exercise of it which should surrender a vital advantage.

It does not require even that the complete reconquest of the South should be awaited in order
that the question of the return of subdued States into the Union upon the old terms should
be sprung upon the nation, and perhaps decided, by a precedent, before the attention of the
country can be thoroughly directed to the momentous nature of the step proposed. The New York
Herald has been hitherto a steady and consistent advocate of this policy, and a powerful agitator
in its behalf. The following extract from its columns indicates the imminence of the issue,
as well as the simple and seemingly reasonable political machinery by which the whole thing
is to be effected:

     'It appears from the correspondence to which we have referred that
     certain citizens of New Orleans, some of whose names are given
     elsewhere, have resolved to restore Louisiana to the Union, and
     that they intend to do this in the manner pointed out by Secretary
     Seward in his famous reply to the intervention despatch of M.
     Drouyn de Lhuys. That is to say, they intend to set the State
     Government in motion, elect members of the Legislature, and send
     loyal representatives to Congress. These gentlemen assert--and the
     Tribune does not deny--that Mr. Seward and Mr. Bates indorse this
     idea, and that Mr. Etheridge, as Clerk of the House of
     Representatives, has consented to receive the loyal members from
     Louisiana, upon their own credentials, until the House is
     organized. They also say--and the Tribune does not deny--that Mr.
     Etheridge has a perfect right to do this upon the precedent
     established by the Broad Seal controversy, some twenty years ago.
     Under these circumstances, the Union men propose to hold an
     election for five members of Congress--one from each district and
     one on the general ticket--and also for members of the State Senate
     and Assembly. 'They are anxious,' says the Tribune correspondent,
     'that Louisiana shall take the lead in this matter, and there is no
     doubt but Mississippi and the other States will, in due time,
     follow.' So far, the patriotic reader will search in vain for any
     objection to a plan which promises so much good for the Union, and
     will be at a loss to know upon what grounds the Tribune can
     oppose it with any show of loyalty.'

It is no part of the object of this writing to discuss the legality or the constitutionality
of any course of proceeding in the premises. What can be done and what cannot be done under
the law, as it stands, is a question for lawyers and judges. How far, if at all, the exigency
has annulled or modified the law; how far the axiom, inter arma silent leges ('in war the laws
are silent'), shall be stretched to cover the case, is a question for statesmen and military
commanders. The writer of these strictures speaks from none of those points of view, but as
a social philosopher, viewing the drifts of inevitable consequence from one or the other grand
policy in respect to the national destiny--irrespective of the minor measures by which it may
be executed. A course utterly suicidal, viewed from this higher platform of observation, may
proceed with the most unimpeachable subserviency to all the forms of the law; or, contrariwise,
a policy replete with the highest prosperity and happiness of the coming ages, may chance to
have its foundations laid in some startling deviation from all considerations of precedent
and routine.

In other words, what can be done or cannot be done under the law, or without violence to the
law, is not now the question under consideration. What must be done, whether under the law
or above the law,[12] to secure certain great ends of human progression, and to avoid positions
of utter disaster to the life of the American people of the future, is so.

Whether the theory of Mr. Sumner, that the revolted States are, by the operation of the revolt,
or should be by the action of the Government, remanded to the territorial condition, holds
good; whether the theory of Mr. Owen, that the machinery of the State Governments at the South
remains unaffected by the insurrection, but that the inhabitants, being traitors, are incapable
of administering it, until they are purged of their treason by the action of the United States
Government, is held to be the better opinion; or, whether, in fine, the easy and simple theory
of the Herald is the law of the subject--none of these points is the point of the present investigation.
We seek to fix attention on the consequences of the act of an early readmission of the revolted
States, and, what would be the same thing, of the old and governing set of slaveholding politicians,
from those States, into the administration of our national affairs, no matter what should be
the method of its accomplishment. In that event, the war will not be ended, but smothered merely,
and left smouldering. It will burst out again, and all that has been done hitherto will have
to be done over again, or fail to be accomplished, and the consequences of failure endured.

Let no ordinary and superficial method of reasoning obfuscate the public mind on this subject.
It is becoming popular to say and to think that slavery at the South is already a dead or a
dying institution, by the operation of the war. This opinion has in it, undoubtedly, the value
of a prophecy, provided the war be continued to its legitimate termination; provided all the
measures against slavery hitherto adopted are firmly maintained; provided the incipient anti-slavery
sentiment now being developed in the South, be wisely fostered and protected by the strong
arm long enough, or until new institutions and new methods of thinking and acting have time
to consolidate. But, whoever supposes that slavery is as yet even essentially weakened, provided,
for any reason, our forces and the influence of Northern sentiment were suddenly withdrawn
from the South, and the ocean waves of the old despotism were for a moment even permitted to
surge back over those portions of the territory which have been partially redeemed, has no
adequate idea of the tremendous vitality of that institution.

A mistake on this subject, of the safe early return of the revolted States, will be one of
those political blunders worse than a crime; and yet it is precisely this mistake which the
American people are at this hour most likely to commit. A latent love of Southern institutions
per se; the hope of personal political advantage, among politicians, by an alliance with Southern
leaders, on the part of others who care nothing for the South as such; a lingering tenderness,
a forgiving magnanimity and generosity, among the people at large, which would in this case
be wholly misplaced; and finally an easy faith in the extent and irrevocable nature of the
successes already accomplished--all concur to lead on to the commission of this error.

Talk as we will of the purposes of this war, the hand of destiny is upon us. We must accept
the rôle of emancipators and champions of human freedom, or the only alternative will happen,
the loss of our own liberties and the forfeiture of our national office as the leader of Progress
combined with Order, on the planet. We have to deal with an implacable, a subtle, and a versatile
enemy, wholly committed to the opposite cause; unscrupulous, inappreciative of magnanimity
or concession of any kind; restrained by no considerations whatsoever short of the accomplishment
of his absolute and tyrannical will. We have this enemy nearly prostrate under our feet, and
we stand hesitating whether to avail ourselves of our advantage or to stultify ourselves at
the tribunal of the world and of history, by allowing him to rise, to repossess himself of
his arms, and to recommence the conflict upon terms of equal advantage.

A glance at the remaining alternative outcomings of the war must be reserved for another article.

THE ENGLISH PRESS.

     [The article with this title is written by Mr. NICHOLAS
     ROWE, of London. Mr. ROWE is a lineal descendant of
     the celebrated NICHOLAS ROWE, the author of the tragedy of
     Jane Shore and other well-known poems. The author, like his
     famous ancestor, is a man of talents and a friend of freedom. His
     account of the old English Press is one of the most perfect ever
     given. He intends to bring the subject down to the present period,
     and will become a regular contributor to our Magazine.--ED.
     CONTINENTAL.]

     It is impossible to overestimate the influence of the English
     press. It has raised itself to such a pitch of importance that it
     has been not inaptly termed the fourth estate of the realm. But the
     power which it wields is so enormous and so widespread that it
     would be nearer the truth to concede to it the dignity of the first
     estate. All classes see so clearly their interest in supporting it,
     that the press has become, in effect, a general arbitrator, a court
     of last appeal, to which kings, lords, and commons in turn address
     themselves for support whenever the overwhelming force of public
     opinion is to be conciliated or enlisted. It is in morals what a
     multitude is in physics, and it may, without exaggeration, be said
     that for all purposes of progress and of good the press of England
     has in reality become something more than a single estate of the
     realm, since it combines in itself, and exceeds the authority of
     all. But while raised to this lofty pinnacle of greatness, it does
     not, it dares not, it cannot from its very constitution permanently
     abuse its power; and though isolated attempts have been, from time
     to time, made in this direction, yet they have in the end, as was
     to be expected, reaped nothing but disaster and disgrace. 'Great is
     journalism,' says Carlyle. 'Is not every able editor a ruler of the
     world, being a persuader of it?' Yes, truly a ruler of the world,
     whose supremacy all other rulers must unhesitatingly acknowledge or
     perish miserably and forever. Yes, truly a persuader of the world,
     because he is the mouthpiece of the people, whose earnest, mighty
     voice is making itself heard more and more irresistibly every day,
     to the utter discomfiture and overthrow of the hydra-headed avatars
     of the priestcraft and kingcraft and all the other mouldy and
     rank-smelling relics of the dark ages. The press is the arch
     apostle of civilization, progress, and truth--the Greatheart, whose
     mission it is to combat and destroy the giants Pope and Pagan, Maul
     and Despair, and all other misleaders and oppressors of men.
     Language itself might be exhausted before all that could be said in
     favor of the uses, benefits, and value of the press had found
     fitting expression. The greatest and best of men have expatiated
     upon this noble theme, but probably the truest and most eloquent
     panegyric ever bestowed upon it is that of Sheridan:

     'Give me but the liberty of the press, and I will give to the
     minister a venal House of Peers--I will give him a corrupt and
     servile House of Commons--I will give him the full sway of the
     patronage of office--I will give him the whole host of ministerial
     influence--I will give him all the power that place can confer upon
     him to purchase up submission and overawe resistance--and yet,
     armed with the liberty of the press, I will go forth to meet him
     undismayed--I will attack the mighty fabric he has reared with that
     mightier engine--I will shake down from its height corruption, and
     bury it amidst the ruins of the abuses it was meant to shelter.'

Had Sheridan never uttered or written anything besides these burning words, he would have merited
immortal fame, and unquestionably obtained it.

The press is not a thing of yesterday, for it is the slow growth of two centuries; neither
did it burst upon the world armed at all points, like the fabled Athene. Yet in other respects
the comparison holds good, for the press, like Athene, unites in itself the attributes of power
and wisdom combined; it fosters and protects science, industry, and art; it is the patron of
all useful inventions; it is the preserver of the state, and everything that gives strength
and prosperity to the state; it is the champion of law, justice, and order, and extends its
protecting ægis over the weak, the downtrodden, and the oppressed. It has taken two centuries,
as we have already said, to make the press what it is; and a terrible uphill fight has it had
to wage. Tyranny, dogmatism, and intolerance in high places, and ignorance and superstition
in low, have ever been its sworn enemies. It has had its saints and martyrs, more worthy of
canonization in men's hearts than many written high in the calendar of Rome. But though persecuted,
crushed, and at times apparently done to death, its vitality was indestructible, and after
every knock-down blow it rose again from the earth, like Antæus, with renewed strength. It
was always a vigorous stripling, and even so far back as the days of David Hume its future
greatness and magnificent destiny was clearly marked out, so that he wrote: 'Its liberties
and the liberties of the people must stand or fall together.' Liberty and the press in England
are convertible terms, and this is the true reason of the success and power it enjoys. It is
also the cause of the persecutions it has had to undergo. Tyranny and the press are as necessarily
opposed to each other as are the principles of good and evil. The word 'tyranny' is not here
intended to refer only to the despotic rulers of states and kingdoms, but to include the oppression
practiced by the strong upon the weak, the rich upon the poor, the great upon the small, whether
nations or individuals. The press, moreover, is the guardian of social, political, and religious
morality. The greatest as well as the most trifling affairs which conduce to the well-being
and comfort of the multitude are eagerly canvassed. The faults and vices which disfigure and
disgrace even the most advanced forms of civilization are unshrinkingly laid bare, and the
proper remedies prescribed. The political conduct of nations and of public men is carefully
scrutinized, and every false step that they may make is immediately noted, commented upon,
and held up to public reprobation. Religious questions, although, ever since the world began,
they have been approached in a very different spirit to those of any other description, and
have been debated with greater heat and passion than the bitterest political disputes, and
with a lamentable disregard of logic and common sense, are now-a-days treated with a candor
and fairness that has never yet characterized them. The press is, in fact, the great physician
of the mind, whose duty it is to impart a healthy tone to the inner nature of man, to check
the ravages of disease in it, and, wherever it may imagine any traces of poison to lurk, to
administer a prompt and immediate antidote. It may not always and at once prosper in its endeavors.
Wrong-doing may still, in some cases, prove too strong, vices may have become inveterate, diseases
chronic, and the poison may have been too completely absorbed. But not, therefore, is the press
discouraged: like Robert Bruce's spider, it returns again and again to its task, and--success
does and must crown it in the end.

But while faithfully performing these lofty duties, in the discharge of which it employs the
trained minds and practised pens of the greatest literary talent of the time, the press has
other functions, which, if not of such paramount importance, yet possess no small utility and
value. By no means the least of these is that of merely furnishing the news of the day; and
that this was the primary intention of the newspaper its very name proves. Comment, argument,
and reasoning were after additions. There are thousands of persons at the present day even,
who patronize a newspaper solely for its news, and who do not trouble their heads about any
other portion of its contents. The births, marriages, and deaths are eagerly perused by many
who expect to meet in that domestic chronicle with the names of their friends and acquaintances.
The court news and the movements of royalty and the upper ten thousand have great charms for
a large section of the community. Accidents and offences and sensation headings, such as 'horrible
murder,' 'melancholy suicide,' 'terrific explosion,' 'fatal shipwreck,' 'awful railway collision,'
and the like, have powerful attractions for that class which is--alas for human nature!--only
too numerous, and which likes to sup full of horrors--in print. In the same category with these
may be placed police news, and the proceedings in the divorce court, the full reports of which
are a blemish from which not even the greatest of English journals are free. There have been
found able and honest men to defend these reports on the ground of the 'interests of morality,'
than which there is not a more abused phrase in print. But to the man of ordinary common sense
it would appear that more harm than good results from them. Where can the viciously disposed
man or the novice in crime apply with better prospects of instruction in the pursuit of his
evil designs than to the columns of the newspaper? It is perhaps not too much to say that for
every two persons whom these reports deter from crime, there are three who have been either
initiated or hardened in wickedness and sin by their means. This is a matter which calls loudly
for reform; and let it, with all sorrow and humility, be confessed, one in which the better
American journals shine vastly superior to their English brethren. To the general reader for
amusement's sake only, those scraps de omnibus rebus et quibusdam aliis with which editors
fill up odd corners supply ample gratification. But those who read for amusement's sake only,
or from mere idle curiosity, are by no means the majority, and a tolerable insight may be obtained
into a man's character and bias of mind by observing what is the part of the paper to which
he first turns when he unfolds it. The man who is absorbed in business pursuits turns to the
prices of stocks and shares, the values of articles of merchandise, and the rates of discount
and exchange. He will also probably glance at the 'latest intelligence' and the most recent
telegrams, but only with the view of forming an opinion as to how the world of commerce and
speculation will be affected thereby. The politician finds matter to his taste in the leading
articles, the Parliamentary debates and the letters of foreign correspondents, and, perhaps,
after a careful perusal of them, flatters himself that he has at last mastered the intricacies
of the Schleswig-Holstein question, or has arrived at an understanding of the Emperor Napoleon's
policy in Rome. The scientific man and the literary man have their attention fixed by the reports
of the meetings of the various learned societies, the accounts of new discoveries and inventions,
and the reviews of new publications. This enumeration might be extended almost ad infinitum,
but to sum up briefly, whatever a man's taste or predilections may be, he will be able to gratify
them to his heart's content.

There is, however, one portion of the newspaper which must not be passed over without especial
notice, and which is so varied in its contents that it appeals to all classes. This is the
advertisements. The man who wishes to buy may here ascertain whither he must bend his steps
to obtain the article he desires, and the man who wishes to sell may here meet with a purchaser;
and it is truly wonderful to observe how the two great requirements of demand and supply, in
all their varied ramifications, are satisfied or seem to be satisfied in these columns. If
one may put faith in them, it is possible to gratify every mortal wish and every mortal want
through their instrumentality, on one condition, and that condition is--money. But even this
condition may be satisfied through the same medium. Are there not untold fortunes invested
in Government securities and unclaimed for years, only waiting for the lawful owners or rightful
heirs to come forward and obtain them through the agency of those obliging gentlemen who make
it their business to investigate such matters? Are there not also numbers of benevolent philanthropists
eagerly longing for opportunities to lend money in large or small amounts, on personal security
only, to such persons even as are not fortunate enough to be rightful owners or lawful heirs?
The curious part of the affair, however, is that there are also so many people who want to
borrow money upon the same terms. Do these two classes, we wonder, ever come together through
the intervention of the advertisement, and does the result wished for on both sides follow,
or does it not? If it does, why need both sets of advertisements appear at all? And if it does
not, what is the use of repeating either of them day after day and week after week? The man
of imagination must take especial delight in the advertising columns. What splendid feasts
they afford him to banquet upon! Some of them, in a few pithy lines, contain the plot of a
three-volume novel or the materials for a grand sensation melodrama. What tragedies and what
comedies he may weave out of one or two mysterious and almost unintelligible sentences! What
reveries he may indulge in, what castles in the air--the most harmless and inexpensive of building
operations--he may construct, provided he start with the hypothesis, 'If I were to buy this,'
or 'If I were to invest in that,' and all the time he has neither the intention nor the ability
of purchasing the one or of investing in the other! How seductive are the notifications by
auctioneers and land agents of the 'charming and valuable territorial estates, with the disposal
of which they have had the honor of being intrusted'! The dweller in towns, who, chained to
the one unceasing, unvarying round of official toil, still sighs for the country, and, like
Virgil, envies the 'fortunati agricolæ,' may here give the reins to his fancy, and indulge
his rural proclivities ad libitum. When the day's labors are over, and he sits in slippered
ease 'by his own fireside,' what greater enjoyment can he have than to abandon himself in true
Barmecidal fashion to the tempting dainties which the last page of the supplement to the Times
offers to his keen appetite! How he revels in the luscious descriptions of 'noble parks,' 'swelling
lawns,' 'ancestral woods,' 'silver lakes,' and 'endless panoramas of scenery unequalled in
the world'! How proudly he lingers over the pictures of 'baronial castles,' and 'time-honored
manorial residences, indissolubly linked with the proudest names and proudest deeds of England's
history'! If he be a sportsman--and what Englishman is not, more or less?--how intoxicating
to him is the enumeration of 'game of all sorts, and countless myriads of wild fowl,' only
waiting his advent to fall victims to his prowess! If he be a philanthropist, what visions
of model farms, model cottages and model schools, of a happy and contented peasantry, of comely,
smiling matrons, and troops of ruddy-cheeked children may he not conjure up! If he be ambitious,
what dreams of greatness crowd upon him--the revered benefactor of the parish, the respected
chairman of the bench of magistrates, nay, even the county member returned to Parliament without
a dis-sentient voice! His fancy runs riot, and there is no limit to the bright future which
the skilful hand of the cunning knight of the hammer unfolds before his enraptured gaze.

To the energetic, enterprising man, how tempting must be those prospectuses of schemes for
the development of the vast and in many cases untried natural, industrial, and commercial resources
of the country, which, combining in an eminent degree both pleasure and profit, invite his
coöperation upon the joint-stock principle! How delightful to him must be those announcements
of wonderful inventions--secured by a patent--and of old-established business firms, which
offer a safe investment for his spare hundreds and thousands by way of partnership, with the
certainty of immediate and enormous returns! To the invalid and the valetudinarian, how cheering
must be those modest and disinterested encomiums upon the virtues of certain nostrums and specifics,
which cannot but carry conviction to his mind that there is a certain cure for 'all the ills
that flesh is heir to!' And lastly, not to enlarge the list any further, what a glow of heartfelt
pleasure and gratitude must the really good and benevolent man experience when he peruses the
reports of charitable societies, with their statistics of poverty, misery, and privation, which
afford him a channel for the dispensation in works of mercy of the superfluous wealth with
which a bountiful Providence has blessed him!

Such being the manifold uses and advantages of the newspaper, we are tempted for a moment to
pause and reflect upon what would be the condition of the world without it. What a dreary waste
it would be! Man is an inquisitive animal, and at the present day is just like the Athenians
of old, going about seeking for some new thing. What would become of him if the provender supplied
him by his newspaper were suddenly cut off? The consequences to society and to individuals
would be frightful to contemplate, and the mind especially recoils with horror from the fate
which would assuredly overtake those elderly club-loungers, whose sole aim and object in life
appears to be the daily perusal of their favorite journal. How disastrous would be the effects
of such a stoppage to those persons who are compelled to pass the greater portion of their
lives together! They could not possibly contrive to get through the day, and before long life
itself would become burdensome to them. Vast numbers of people have no ideas of their own,
and are therefore compelled to borrow them elsewhere. How important is the part which the newspaper
plays in that elsewhere! Paterfamilias comes down to breakfast--his newspaper fresh, clean,
and tidily folded, lies invitingly on the table--he eagerly seizes it, and is forthwith furnished
with topics of conversation with his family. When he is thoroughly posted up in the news of
the day, he sallies forth, and is ready to interchange ideas at secondhand with any acquaintance
he may meet. What would become of Paterfamilias, his family, and his friends, if they were
deprived of this resource? The whole framework of society would be unhinged, business and pleasure
would alike come to a standstill, and the world would again relapse into barbarism and chaos.

But let us turn from these fanciful speculations to a sober recital of facts in connection
with the history of the press.

The derivation of the word 'newspaper' has been the subject of much dispute. Some learned and
ingenious writers, disdaining the obvious 'new,' have gone very far afield in their researches.
Among other derivations which have been suggested, is one taken from the four cardinal points
of the compass, N. E. W. S.; because the intelligence conveyed came from all quarters of the
globe. This suggestion is contained in an old epigram:

  'The word explains itself without the Muse,
   And the four letters tell from whence comes News;
   From N. E. W. S. the solution's made,
   Each quarter gives account of war and trade.'

And also, probably in jest, in the 'Wit's Recreations,' published in 1640:

  'Whence news doth come if any would discusse,
   The letters of the word resolve it thus:
   News is conveyed by letter, word, or mouth,
   And comes to us from North, East, West, and South.'

For the first origin of newspapers in Europe we must look to Rome, and there can be no reasonable
doubt that the earliest germs of news sheets are to be found among that wonderful people, who
have left such enduring monuments of themselves wherever they carried their victorious eagles.
The Roman news sheets were called Acta Diurna, and were issued by the Government, and affixed
to the walls in the most public places in the city. They were also carefully stored in a building
set apart for the purpose, where any person could have access to them, and make copies of them
for the benefit of their friends in distant parts of the empire. It is probable also that the
Roman historians availed themselves of them in their compilations. They were not only reports
of the ordinary occurrences in the city, but journals of the proceedings in the courts and
town councils as well, and they contain records of trials, elections, punishments, buildings,
deaths, sacrifices, state ceremonials, prodigies, etc., etc. They are alluded to in the correspondence
between Cicero and Coelius, when the great orator was governor of Cilicia. Coelius had promised
to send him an account of the news of Rome, and encloses in his first letter a journal of the
events which had transpired in the city during his absence. Cicero, in reply, complains that
his friend had misinterpreted his wishes, and says that he had not desired him to send an account
of the matches of gladiators, the adjournments of the courts, and occurrences of that kind,
which nobody dared to talk to him about even when he was residing in Rome: what he wanted was
a description of the course of politics and but the newspaper of Chrestus. He also refers to
these sheets, that is to say, to accounts of public affairs in actis and ex actis, in two letters
to Cassius and one to Brutus, written previously to the triumvirate. Suetonius also makes mention
of them, and says that Julius Cæsar, in his consulship, ordered the diurnal acts of the senate
and the people to be published. Tacitus relates a speech of a courtier to Nero to induce him
to execute Thrasea, and among other things he says: 'Diurna populi Romani per provinciam per
exercitus accuratius leguntur ut noscatur quid Thrasea non fecerit.' Seneca and the younger
Pliny also allude to them. Dr. Johnson, in the preface to the tenth volume of the Gentleman's
Magazine, published in 1740, enters into a disquisition upon these acta diurna, and gives an
account of the discovery of some of them with the date of 585 A. U. C., and adds some specimens
from them. He quotes them from the 'Annals of Rome,' by Stephen Pighius, who declares that
he obtained them from James Susius, by whom they were found among the MSS. belonging to Ludovicus
Vives. Their authenticity has, as might be expected, been hotly disputed by many learned scholars
at various times, but sufficient grounds have not been adduced for their rejection. The most
suspicious circumstance connected with them is their resemblance, mutatis mutandis, to a newspaper
of the present day. Thus among other things we are told that the consul went in grand procession
to sacrifice at the temple of Apollo, just as now a-days we might read that Queen Victoria
went in state to St. Paul's, or attended divine service at the chapel royal, St. James's. Then
we are favored with an account of the setting forth of Lucius Paulus Æmilius, the consul, for
the war in Macedonia, and a description of the departure of the embassy of Popilius Lena, Caius
Decimus, and Caius Hostilius to Syria and Egypt, with a great attendance of relations and clients,
and of their offering up a sacrifice and libations at the temple of Castor and Pollux before
commencing their journey. Then we hear how an oak was struck by lightning on the summit of
Mount Palatine, which was called Summa Velia, and have the particulars given us of a fire which
took place on Mount Coelius, together with an account of the crucifixion of a certain noted
pirate. Dramatic intelligence is represented by a description of the plays acted in honor of
the goddess Cybele; and under the head of 'fashionable intelligence,' the Jenkins of the day
chronicles the funeral of Marcia, a noble Roman matron, and remarks that the attendance of
images was greater than that of mourners. He also adds an account of the entertainment given
to the people by her sons upon the occasion. By way of police news, we find a record of a disturbance
in a tavern, in which the tavern keeper was severely wounded; and how Tertinius, the ædile,
fined some butchers for selling meat which had not been inspected by the overseers of the market.
A counterpart of this transaction may be met with every day in the city of London, but the
result of the affair is much the more satisfactory in Rome, for whereas we do not know for
certain what becomes of the money obtained from the penalty in London, we learn that the ædile
directed it to be devoted to the building of an additional chapel to the temple of the goddess
Tellus. Dr. Johnson also quotes a second series of Acta Diurna, with the date of 691 A. U.
C., from the 'Camdenian Lectures' of Dodwell in 1688 to 1691. Dodwell says that he obtained
them from his friend Hadrian Beoerland, who got them from Isaac Vossius, by whom they were
copied from certain MSS. in the possession of Petavius. Among other things contained in this
second set, we find noted certain trials, with the number of the votes for and against the
defendant, a bargain for the repairs of a certain temple, an announcement by one of the prætors
that he shall intermit his sittings for five days, in consequence of the marriage of his daughter,
and an account of the pleading of Cicero in favor of Cornelius Sulla, and of his gaining his
cause by a majority of five judges.

Such are the earliest traces of newspapers to be found, and long centuries elapse before we
again catch a glimpse of anything of the kind. Although it is the great Anglo-Saxon race alone
which can boast of having developed the usefulness and liberty of the press to its fullest
capabilities, both in England and America, yet it is not to us that the credit belongs of having
been the first to reintroduce newspapers in Europe. Whether or no the Romans introduced their
Acta Diurna into Britain, and whether or no any imitations of them sprang up then or in after
times, it is impossible to say. Some writers have asserted that news sheets were in circulation
in England at all events so early as the middle of the fifteenth century, but as their assertions
rest upon no very trustworthy basis, they must be at once thrown aside. It is to Italy that
we must again turn for the reappearance of the newspaper. It was in 1536, or thereabouts, that
the Venetian magistracy caused accounts of the progress of the war which they were waging against
Suleiman II, in Dalmatia, to be written and read aloud to the people in different parts of
the city. The news sheet appeared once a month, and was called Gazetta, deriving its name,
probably, from a coin so called, of the value of something less than a cent, either because
that was the price of the sheet, or the sum paid for reading it, or for having it read. There
are thirty volumes of this MS. newspaper preserved in the Maggliabecchi Library at Florence,
and there are also some in the British Museum, the earliest date of which is 1570. Printed
news letters, with date and number, but not so deserving of the title of newspaper, began to
appear about the same time in Germany. They were called Relations, and were published at Augsburg
and Vienna in 1524, at Ratisbon in 1528, Dollingen in 1569, and Nuremberg in 1571. The first
regular German newspaper appeared at Frankfort, and was entitled Frankfurter Oberpostamtszeitung,
in 1615. The first French was brought out by Renaudot, a physician, in 1632. The first Russian
paper came out under the auspices of Peter the Great, in 1703, and was styled the St. Petersburg
Gazette. Spain did not enter the lists until a year later, and the Gazeta de Madrid was born
in 1704. It could not have been worth much as a newspaper, inasmuch as the defeat off Cape
St. Vincent did not appear in its columns until four weeks after it had taken place.

There must have been some sort of news sheets in existence in England about the same time as
the Venetian Gazetta, for in the thirty-sixth year of King Henry VIII, the following proclamation
appeared:

     'The King's most excellent Majestie, understanding that certain
     light persones, not regarding what they reported, wrote, or sett
     forth, had caused to be ymprinted and divulged certaine newes of
     the prosperous successes of the King's Majestie's army in Scotland,
     wherein, although the effect of the victory was indeed true, yet
     the circumstances in divers points were, in some parte
     over-slenderly, in some parte untruly and amisse reported; his
     Highness, therefore, not content to have anie such matters of so
     greate importance sett forthe to the slaunder of his captaines and
     ministers, nor to be otherwise reported than the truthe was,
     straightlie chargeth and commandeth all manner of persones into
     whose hands anie of the said printed bookes should come,
     ymmediately after they should hear of this proclamation, to bring
     the said bookes to the Lord Maior of London, or to the recorder or
     some of the aldermen of the same, to the intent they might suppress
     and burn them, upon pain that every person keeping anie of the said
     bookes twenty-four hours after the making of this proclamation,
     should suffer ymprisonment of his bodye, and be further punished at
     the King's Majestie's will and pleasure.'

None of these obnoxious 'printed bookes' have survived to the present time, and it has been
contended that they were probably nothing more than ballads and copies of doggerel verses.
But this is an hypercritical objection, or rather groundless guess, for it is evident that
the proclamation points at something far more important. We may safely conclude that they were
newspapers, and that journalism had already attained sufficient dimensions to alarm the powers
that were, and draw down their hostility. And a few years later, Pope Gregory XIII fulminated
a bull, called Minantes, against the news sheets, as spreading scandal and defamation, etc.

It was long fondly believed that the British Museum counted among its treasures a full-blown
printed English newspaper, dating so far back as 1588. It was entitled the English Mercurie,
and purported to be 'published by authoritie for the suppression of false reports, ymprinted
at London by Christopher Barker, her Highness's Printer.' Writer after writer exulted in the
fact, and was loud in the praises of the sagacity and wisdom of Burleigh, under whose direction
it was supposed to have been issued. But unfortunately for antiquaries and literati, the matter
was carefully investigated by Mr. Watts, of the British Museum, and he pronounced on unquestionable
evidence the copies of the English Mercurie to be nothing but a barefaced forgery, of which
he went even so far as to accuse, on good grounds, the second Lord Hardwicke of being the perpetrator.
But though we must discard this fictitious account of the Spanish armada, etc., other news
sheets did actually exist in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, a list of which has been compiled
by Dr. Rimbault. As time went on, these 'pamphlets of newes' increased in number. They treated
of all kinds of intelligence; some derived their materials from foreign countries, and some
from different parts of the kingdom at home; some were true, and some were false. Thus we find,
among others, Lamentable Newes out of Monmouthshire, in Wales, containinge the wonderfull and
fearfull Accounts of the great overflowing of the Waters in the said Countye, 1607; Newes from
Spain, 1611; Newes out of Germanie, 1612; Wofull Newes from the west partes of England, of
the burning of Tiverton, 1612; Good Newes from Florence, 1614; Strange Newes from Lancaster,
containinge an Account of a prodigious Monster, born in the Township of Addlington, in Lancashire,
with two bodyes joined to one back, 1613; Newes from Italy, 1618; Newes out of Holland, 1619;
Vox Populi, or Newes from Spain, 1620. About this time the news sheets began to assume particular
and distinctive titles, under which they appeared at uncertain intervals. We meet with The
Courant, or Weekly Newes from Foreign Parts, 1621; The certain Newes of this present Week,
1622; The Weekly Newes from Italy, Germany, etc., 1622, a title which was shortly after exchanged
for that of Newes from most Parts of Christendom, London, printed for Nathaniel Butler and
William Sheppard. These names ought to be preserved, as being those of the great pioneers of
regular journalism. It appears, however, that they did not always keep the same title for their
newspaper, for sometimes it was called The Last Newes; at others, The Weekly Newes continued;
More Newes; Our Last Newes, and other various renderings of the same theme. This great progenitor
of a mighty race also adopted a system of numbering, and, though exposed to many dangers and
vicissitudes, did not finally disappear until 1640. Butler and his contemporaries had to struggle
with many obstacles, and to contend against many and powerful foes. In 1637, Archbishop Laud
procured the passing of an ordinance limiting the number of master printers to twenty, and
punishing with whipping and the pillory all such as should print without a license. Butler's
name does not occur in this list; so we may conclude that he was particularly obnoxious to
the haughty prelate and his party. But this persevering journalist, whose name had for a long
time appeared alone as the printer of his newspaper, contrived to surmount this difficulty,
for in a manifesto, dated January 11th, 1640, he says:

     'Courteous reader! we had thought to have given over printing our
     foreign avisoes, for that the licenser (out of a partial affection)
     would not oftentimes let pass apparent truth, and in other things
     (oftentimes) so crosse and alter, which made us weary of printing;
     but he being vanished (and that office fallen upon another more
     understanding in these forraine affaires, and as you will find more
     candid) we are againe (by the favour of his Majestie and the state)
     resolved to go on printing, if we shall find the world to give a
     better acceptation of them (than of late) by their weekly buying of
     them. It is well known these novels are well esteemed in all parts
     of the world (but heere) by the more judicious, which we can impute
     to no other but the discontinuance of them, and the uncertaine
     daies of publishing them, which, if the post fail us not, we shall
     keep a constant day everie weeke therein, whereby everie man may
     constantly expect them, and so we take leave.'

This number of his journal is entitled The continuation of the Forraine Occurrents, for five
Weeks past, containinge many remarkable Passages of Germanie, etc.; examined and licensed by
a better and more impartiall hand than heretofore. Another noticeable thing in this manifesto
is the first occurrence of the autocratic editorial 'we.'

Butler had also to contend with the opposition of the news writers or news correspondents,
who doubtless found his undertaking interfere with their trade. These gentry covenanted for
the sum of £3 or £4 a year to write a news letter every post day to their subscribers in the
country. That this curious trade was thoroughly systematized is evident from the following
passage in Ben Jonson's 'Staple of News,' published in 1635:

  'This is the outer room where my clerks sit
   And keep their sides, the register i' the midst;
   The examiner he sits private there within--
   And here I have my several rolls and files
   Of news by the alphabet, and all put up
   Under their heads.'

The news writers flourished greatly at this period, but as newspapers began to get a footing,
their credit gradually declined--and with reason, if we may put confidence in the following
extract from the Evening Post, of September 6th, 1709:

     'There must be £3 or £4 paid per annum by those gentlemen who are
     out of town for written news, which is so far generally from having
     any probability of matter of fact, that it is frequently stuffed up
     with a 'we hear,' or 'an eminent Jew merchant has received a
     letter,' being nothing more than downright fiction.'

To Butler belongs the credit of having been the first to introduce street newsboys, with this
difference, that his employés were of the other sex, and were styled 'Mercurie women.'

Butler was a stanch royalist, and consequently suffered the vengeance of the Parliamentary
party. He fell into great poverty, and, according to Anthony à Wood, died on board Prince Rupert's
fleet in Kinsale harbor, in 1649, just as a brighter day was beginning to dawn upon journalism.

The struggle between the Parliament and the king set the press free from the multiplied restrictions
by which it had been 'cabined, cribbed, confined' and almost stifled in its cradle. The country
became flooded with publications of all kinds, of which, while many were trashy, ridiculous,
and extravagant, there still remained a considerable portion which materially helped forward
that mighty uprising of the people to which England owes her freedom, her glory, and her might.

And here, having introduced to the reader the first real newspaper, and the great ancestor
of all after editors, and having attended the press through its obscure infancy and perilous
childhood, we must pause, reserving for consideration in a future article the fair promise
of its youth and the development of its still more glorious manhood.

THE CONSCRIPTION ACT OF MARCH 3D.

Few subjects are more difficult of legislation than that of the military service of a nation.
The most profound wisdom, the most enlightened statesmanship, the most intimate knowledge of
society, are requisite in the legislator. It is easy, indeed, to regulate the military service
in times of peace, when the army is small and volunteers are abundant. But when the ordinary
methods fail to fill up the ranks, decimated by actual war, when the honor and perpetuity of
a nation depend upon a conscription of its citizens, then comes the tug of war, and many legislatures
have failed in their deliberations on this subject. In the first place, a Conscription Act
is opposed to popular prejudice. Compulsory service of any kind, except for punishment, is
contrary to our ideas of personal freedom. We believe in the sovereign privilege of doing what
we please, and declining to do what we do not please, to its fullest possible extent. We love
to tell our neighbors that we have no standing army to defend our national honor, but that
it reposes safely on the voluntary patriotism of the people. We may admit the necessity for
a Conscription Act--may confess its justice and impartiality; but few men who are liable to
fall into its pitiless clutches, can speak of such an act without a shrug of uneasiness or
a wicked expression of anger. Again, it must be universal in its application. It must meet
all classes and conditions of society; must be adapted to all shades of religious and political
belief; must be inflexible as Justice on his throne, yet tender and sympathetic as a mother
to her child. It must take into consideration different branches of industry, and the fields
of one section must not be depleted of husbandmen that those of another may be filled with
warriors.

The act of March 3d meets these difficulties more successfully, perhaps, than any previous
act, whether of a State or National Legislature. It is based upon the broad and well-admitted
maxim, that every citizen owes his personal service to the Government which protects him. But
while the Government impartially demands this service, the law provides for the exemption of
those who would suffer by the unqualified enforcement of this demand.

Many persons outside of the specified limits of age, are physically able to do military service.
But, as a class, it would have been cruel and impolitic to have forced men into a service which
would have wrecked health and happiness for life, or, by a short and swift passage through
the military hospitals, have shuffled them into premature graves. Few men under twenty-five
have the power of endurance necessary for a long and wearisome campaign. The muscles are not
sufficiently knit and hardened for the service, nor the constitution sufficiently fortified
to withstand the exposure. Men over forty-five have lost the vigor and elasticity necessary
to long and arduous exertion, and are constantly liable to become a burden instead of a benefit
to the service.

No previous act has so equally disposed the military duty among the various classes affected
by it. It is a well-known fact that the burdens of military service are wont to bear most heavily
on the laboring classes. Probably no legislation can entirely remove this inequality. But the
act of March 3d makes special provision for the indigent and helpless, and to a great extent
relieves the suffering and inconvenience dependent on an enforced military conscription. Poverty
is not left without relief, infancy without protection, old age without comfort. The dependent
widow, the infirm parent, the homeless orphan, are adopted by the Government, and their support
and protection provided for. And in order that the character and dignity of the army may comport
with the greatness and purity of the cause for which it is fighting--that it may be both the
power and the pride of the nation, it is expressly provided, that 'no person who has been guilty
of any felony shall be enrolled or permitted to serve in said forces.' For the benefit of those
whose peculiar business or family relations require their services at home, Congress wisely
inserted 'the $300 clause.' In this they but followed the established custom in most nations
since the days of feudalism. No part of the act has been more violently assailed than this,
none more unjustly. It is asserted that this clause discriminates against the poor, in favor
of the rich; that it recognizes unjust distinctions between the classes of society, and assigns
military duty unequally among the citizens. No assertion could more glaringly display the author's
ignorance and lack of judgment.

The law, as originally drawn, required the service of the man drafted or an acceptable substitute
within ten days. Had 'the $300 clause' not been inserted, the competition for substitutes would
have been so great that their price would have risen far beyond the ability of men in moderate
circumstances to pay, and many would have been forced into service who thus have an opportunity
for exempting themselves. It has kept the price of substitutes at a low figure, and thus has
proven itself emphatically the poor man's provision.

Nor is the law harsh toward those who may be drafted. Abundant time is given for the settlement
of any pressing business, the proper disposition of family affairs, or the procuring of a substitute.
It is mild toward the infirm and afflicted, making ample provision for the exemption of those
who, from any cause, are unfit for service.

It assures to drafted men the same pay, bounty, clothing, and equipments as volunteers receive,
and in all respects puts them on the same footing. It thus removes the unjust distinction wont
to be made between the drafted man and volunteer, looking upon each as a true soldier of his
country, equally interested in its honor and perpetuity. And in order that justice may be secured
to the citizen as well as to the Government, the entire business of the enrolment and draft
is under the supervision of a board of three men, generally residents of the district.

The prevailing spirit of the act, cropping out in almost every section, is the tenderness with
which it handles the subject. It scrupulously seeks to avoid all violence, injustice, and suffering,
and while it firmly asks the service of the people, distributes that service equally among
all. And herein is its superiority over all previous militia acts. State and national officers,
members of Congress, custom-house officials, postmasters, clerks, and the favored and fortunate
generally, were heretofore exempt, instead of those who, by misfortune or otherwise, were in
circumstances of dependence and want.

But the act of March 3d, thus general in its application, thus humane in its provisions, is
not without omissions and imperfections. But these arise rather from the language of its provisions,
than from its general design. Let us briefly examine these provisions as they are given in
the second section of the act.

Clause second exempts 'the only son liable to military duty of a widow dependent upon his labor
for support.'

The Judge Advocate General has decided, that 'a woman divorced from her husband who is still
living, is not in the sense of the law a widow--a widow being defined to be a woman who has
lost her husband by death.' Her only son, therefore, upon whom she may be dependent for her
support, cannot be exempted. A divorced woman, whose husband is still living, may thus be left
entirely without support, unless she have several sons 'liable to draft,' in which case, she
may elect one for exemption.

Clause third exempts 'the only son of aged or infirm parent or parents dependent upon his labor
for support.'

It has been decided that a son cannot be exempted under this clause unless both the parents
are 'aged or infirm.' Thus it may happen that, by reason of bodily or mental infirmity, a father,
with a family of helpless children, may be totally dependent upon the exertions of the mother
and a draftable son. But the law pitilessly takes the son without possibility of exemption,
throwing the entire burden of support upon the mother.

But no clause of this section is more liable to objection than the fourth, which reads as follows:
'Where there are two or more sons of aged or infirm parents subject to draft, the father, or
if he be dead, the mother, may elect which son shall be exempt.' It will be observed that the
provision--'dependent upon his labor for support'--is omitted in this clause. Now, to interpret
its language by the legal method of construction, by the context, it would seem that such dependence
were necessary in order to secure the exemption. For the two clauses immediately preceding
exempt 'the only son of a widow or of aged or infirm parent or parents dependent upon his labor
for support. The two immediately following, exempt 'the brother or father of orphan children
under twelve years of age dependent upon his labor for support.' That is, four of the five
clauses referring strictly to this subject, grant exemption to the applicant only when some
one depends upon him for support. Hence it may be presumed, according to an admitted custom
of legal interpretation, that in the remaining clause, standing between the other four, the
question of dependence, though not expressly stated, is clearly implied.

But an 'opinion,' published by the Provost-Marshal General's Bureau for the guidance of the
boards of enrolment, declares that 'the right to this exemption does not rest upon the parents'
dependence on the labor of their sons for their support. The law does not contemplate any such
dependence.'

What is the result of this decision?

First, it places the wealthy and independent on the same footing with the indigent and needy,
exacting from the one no more service than from the other.

Second, it is more lenient toward the wealthy citizen who has several sons liable to draft,
than toward the helpless widow who may have but one.

Third, it makes a distinction against that family which may have contributed most to the military
service.

By the 'opinion' just quoted, the only fact to be established by parents electing one of several
sons 'subject to draft,' is that they are 'aged or infirm'. When this is done, boards of enrolment
must grant the exemption. The parents may live in affluence independent of their children;
the sons may all be in the second class except the one elected; they may reside in different
districts or States; they may belong to different households: yet, if the same parents, or
some indigent widow adjoining them, had but one son 'liable to military duty,' or, having several,
had sent them all into the army save one, that one remaining could not be exempt unless it
were proven that they actually depended on him for their support. Why should a helpless widow,
having but one son, be required to prove her dependence on him for support in order to have
him exempted, when her wealthy neighbor, who has two sons, can have one of them exempted without
this dependence?

Another published 'opinion' says: 'Election of the son to be exempted must be made before the
draft.' Now amid the chances of a draft it may happen that the brother or brothers of the elected
son may not be drawn. Thus the Government loses the services of the entire family. In many
cases no election would be necessary unless all the sons were drafted, in which case it could
be made as well after as before the draft. Besides, if there be a considerable interval between
the time of election and the time of draft, the ground of exemption may no longer exist when
the Government calls for the service of the man.

On clause sixth an 'opinion' has been issued, stating that 'the father of motherless children
under twelve years of age, dependent upon his labor for their support, is exempt, notwithstanding
he may have married a second time and his wife be living.'

A stepmother is not believed to be a 'mother' in the sense of the act. Another 'opinion' declares
that the father of children of an insane mother under twelve years of age dependent on his
labor for support, is not exempt.

A moment's reflection on these two 'opinions' is sufficient to establish their injustice. A
stepmother may and should, in all important respects, take the place of the actual mother.
Yet the father is exempt. Children of an insane mother, however, may be left entirely without
maternal care and protection, and the father, upon whom may rest the burden of children and
wife, is not exempt.

Clause seventh reads as follows: 'Where there are a father and sons in the same family and
household, and two of them are in the military service of the United States, as non-commissioned
officers, musicians, or privates, the residue of such family or household, not exceeding two,
shall be exempt.'

