

Two things he did during his reign to the material advantage of the Church, however much he
may have neglected the spiritual. He strengthened her hold upon her temporal possessions and
he enriched the Vatican by the addition of the Sistine Chapel. For the decoration of this he
procured the best Tuscan talent of his day--and of many days--and brought Alessandro Filipeppi
(Botticelli), Pietro Vannuccio (Il Perugino), and Domenico Bigordi (IL Ghirlandajo) from Florence
to adorn its walls with their frescoes.(1)

  1  The glory of the Sistine Chapel, however, is Michelangelo's "Last
Judgement," which was added later, in the reign of Pope Julius II
(Giuliano della Rovere).

In the last years of the reign of Pope Sixtus, Cardinal Roderigo's family had suffered a loss
and undergone an increase.

In 1481 Vannozza bore him another son--Giuffredo Borgia, and in the following year died his
eldest son (by an unknown mother) Pedro Luis de Borgia, who had reached the age of twenty-two
and was betrothed at the time of his decease to the Princess Maria d'Aragona.

In January of that same year, 1482, Cardinal Roderigo had married his daughter Girolama--now
aged fifteen--to Giovanni Andrea Cesarini, the scion of a patrician Roman house. The alliance
strengthened the bonds of good feeling which for some considerable time had prevailed between
the two families. Unfortunately the young couple were not destined to many years of life together,
as in 1483 both died.

Of Cesare all that we know at this period is what we learn from the Papal Bulls conferring
several benefices upon him. In July 1482 he was granted the revenues from the prebendals and
canonries of Valencia; in the following month he was appointed Canon of Valencia and apostolic
notary. In April 1484 he was made Provost of Alba, and in September of the same year treasurer
of the Church of Carthage. No doubt he was living with his mother, his brothers, and his sister
at the house in the Piazza Pizzo di Merlo, where an ample if not magnificent establishment
was maintained.

By this time Cardinal Roderigo's wealth and power had grown to stupendous proportions, and
he lived in a splendour well worthy of his lofty rank. He was now fifty-three years of age,
still retaining the air and vigour of a man in his very prime, which, no doubt, he owed as
much as to anything to his abstemious and singularly sparing table-habits. He derived a stupendous
income from his numerous abbeys in Italy and Spain, his three bishoprics of Valencia, Porto,
and Carthage, and his ecclesiastical offices, among which the Vice-Chancellorship alone yielded
him annually eight thousand florins.(1)

  1  The gold florin, ducat, or crown was equal to ten shillings of our
present money, and had a purchasing power of five times that amount.

Volterra refers with wonder to the abundance of his plate, to his pearls, his gold embroideries,
and his books, the splendid equipment of his beds, the trappings of his horses, and other similar
furnishings in gold, in silver, and in silk. In short, he was the wealthiest prince of the
Church of his day, and he lived with a magnificence worthy of a king or of the Pope himself.

Of the actual man, Volterra, writing in 1586, says: "He is of a spirit capable of anything,
and of a great intelligence. A ready speaker, and of distinction, notwithstanding his indifferent
literary culture; naturally astute, and of marvellous talent in the conduct of affairs."

In the year in which Volterra wrote of Cardinal Roderigo in such terms Vannozza was left a
widow by the death of Giorgio della Croce. Her widowhood was short, however, for in the same
year--on June 6--she took a second husband, possibly at the instance of Roderigo Borgia, who
did not wish to leave her unprotected; that, at least, is the general inference, although there
is very little evidence upon which to base it. This second husband was Carlo Canale, a Mantovese
scholar who had served Cardinal Francesco Gonzaga in the capacity of chamberlain, and who had
come to Rome on the death of his patron.

The marriage contract shows that by this time Vannozza had removed her residence to Piazza
Branchis. In addition to this she had by this time acquired a villa with its beautiful gardens
and vine­yards in the Suburra near S. Pietro in Vincoli. She is also known to have been the
proprietor of an inn--the Albergo del Leone--in Via del Orso, opposite the Torre di Nona, for
she figures with della Croce in a contract regarding a lease of it in 1483.

With her entrance into second nuptials, her relations with Cardinal Roderigo came to an end,
and his two children by her, then in Rome--Lucrezia and Giuffredo--went to take up their residence
with Adriana Orsini (née de Mila) at the Orsini Palace on Monte Giordano. She was a cousin
of Roderigo's, and the widow of Lodovico Orsini, by whom she had a son, Orso Orsini, who from
early youth had been betrothed to Giulia Farnese, the daughter of a patrician family, still
comparatively obscure, but destined through this very girl to rise to conspicuous eminence.

For her surpassing beauty this Giulia Farnese has been surnamed La Bella--and as Giulia La
Bella was she known in her day--and she has been immortalized by Pinturicchio and Guglielmo
della Porta. She sat to the former as a model for his Madonna in the Borgia Tower of the Vatican,
and to the latter for the statue of Truth which adorns the tomb of her brother Alessandro Farnese,
who became Pope Paul III.

Here in Adriana Orsini's house, where his daughter Lucrezia was being educated, Cardinal Roderigo,
now at the mature age of some six-and-fifty years, made the acquaintance and became enamoured
of this beautiful golden-headed Giulia, some forty years his junior. To the fact that she presently
became his mistress--somewhere about the same time that she became Orso Orsini's wife--is due
the sudden rise of the House of Farnese. This began with her handsome, dissolute brother Alessandro's
elevation to the purple by her lover, and grew to vast proportions during his subsequent and
eminently scandalous occupation of the Papal Throne as Paul III.

In the year 1490 Lucrezia was the only one of Roderigo's children by Vannozza who remained in Rome.

Giovanni Borgia was in Spain, whither he had gone on the death of his brother Pedro Luis, to
take posession of the Duchy of Gandia, which the power of his father's wealth and vast influence
at the Valencian Court had obtained for that same Pedro Luis. To this Giovanni now succeeded.

Cesare Borgia--now aged fifteen--had for some two years been studying his humanities in an
atmosphere of Latinity at the Sapienza of Perugia. There, if we are to believe the praises
of him uttered by Pompilio, he was already revealing his unusual talents and a precocious wit.
In the preface of the Syllabica on the art of Prosody dedicated to him by Pompilio, the latter
hails him as the hope and ornament of the Hous of Borgia--"Borgiae familiae spes et decus."

From Perugia he was moved in 1491 to the famous University of Pisa, a college frequented by
the best of Italy. For preceptor he had Giovanni Vera of Arcilla, a Spanish gentleman who was
later created a cardinal by Cesare's father. There in Pisa Cesare maintained an establishment
of a magnificence in keeping with his father's rank and with the example set him by that same
father.

It was Cardinal Roderigo's wish that Cesare should follow an ecclesiastical career; and the
studies of canon law which he pursued under Filippo Decis, the most rated lecturer on canon
law of his day, were such as peculiarly to fit him for that end and for the highest honours
the Church might have to bestow upon him later. At the age of seventeen, while still at Pisa,
he was appointed prothonotary of the Church and preconized Bishop of Pampeluna.

Sixtus IV died, as we have seen, in August 1482. The death of a Pope was almost invariably
the signal for disturbances in Rome, and they certainly were not wanting on this occasion.
The Riario palaces were stormed and looted, and Girolamo Riario--the Pope's "nepot"--threw
himself into the castle of Sant' Angelo with his forces.

The Orsini and Colonna were in arms, "so that in a few days incendiarism, robbery, and murder
raged in several parts of the city. The cardinals besought the Count to surrender the castle
to the Sacred College, withdraw his troops, and deliver Rome from the fear of his forces; and
he, that he might win the favour of the future Pope, obeyed, and withdrew to Imola."(1)

  1  Macchiavelli, Istorie Fiorentine.

The cardinals, having thus contrived to restore some semblance of order, proceeded to the creation
of a new Pontiff, and a Genoese, Giovanni Battista Cibo, Cardinal of Malfetta, was elected
and took the name of Innocent VIII.

Again, as in the case of Sixtus, there is no lack of those who charge this Pontiff with having
obtained his election by simony. The Cardinals Giovanni d' Aragona (brother to the King of
Naples) and Ascanio Sforza (brother of Lodovico, Duke of Milan) are said to have disposed of
their votes in the most open and shameless manner, practically putting them up for sale to
the highest bidder. Italy rang with the scandal of it, we are told.

Under Innocent's lethargic rule the Church again began to lose much of the vigour with which
Sixtus had inspired it. If the reign of Sixtus had been scandalous, infinitely worse was that
of Innocent--a sordid, grasping sensualist, without even the one redeeming virtue of strength
that had been his predecessor's. Nepotism had characterized many previous pontificates; open
paternity was to characterize his, for he was the first Pope who, in flagrant violation of
canon law, acknowledged his children for his own. He proceeded to provide for some seven bastards,
and that provision appears to have been the only aim and scope of his pontificate.

Not content with raising money by the sale of preferments, Innocent established a traffic in
indulgences, the like of which had never been seen before. In the Rome of his day you might,
had you the money, buy anything, from a cardinal's hat to a pardon for the murder of your father.

The most conspicuous of his bastards was Francesco Cibo--conspicuous chiefly for the cupidity
which distinguished him as it distinguished the Pope his father. For the rest he was a poor-spirited
fellow who sorely disappointed Lorenzo de'Medici, whose daughter Maddalena he received in marriage.
Lorenzo had believed that, backed by the Pope's influence, Francesco would establish for himself
a dynasty in Romagna. But father and son were alike too invertebrate--the one to inspire, the
other to execute any such designs as had already been attempted by the nepots of Calixtus III
and Sixtus IV.

Under the weak and scandalous rule of Innocent VIII Rome appears to have been abandoned to
the most utter lawlessness. Anarchy, robbery, and murder preyed upon the city. No morning dawned
without revealing corpses in the streets; and if by chance the murderer was caught, there was
pardon for him if he could afford to buy it, or Tor di Nona and the hangman's noose if he could
not.

It is not wonderful that when at last Innocent VIII died Infessura should have blessed the
day that freed the world of such a monster.

But his death did not happen until 1492. A feeble old man, he had become subject to lethargic
or cataleptic trances, which had several times already deceived those in attendance into believing
him dead. He grew weaker and weaker, and it became impossible to nourish him upon anything
but woman's milk. Towards the end came, Infessura tells us, a Hebrew physician who claimed
to have a prescription by which he could save the Pope's life. For his infusion(1) he needed
young human blood, and to obtain it he took three boys of the age of ten, and gave them a ducat
apiece for as much as he might require of them. Unfortunately he took so much that the three
boys incontinently died of his phlebotomy, and the Hebrew was obliged to take to flight to
save his own life, for the Pope, being informed of what had taken place, execrated the deed
and ordered the physician's arrest. "Judeus quidem aufugit, et Papa sanatus not est," concludes
Infessura.

  1  The silly interpretation of this afforded by later writers, that this
physician attempted transfusion of blood--silly, because unthinkable in
an age which knew nothing of the circulation of the blood--has already
been exploded.

Innocent VIII breathed his last on July 25, 1492.

CHAPTER III. ALEXANDER VI

The ceremonies connected with the obsequies of Pope Innocent VIII lasted--as prescribed--nine
days; they were concluded on August 5, 1492, and, says Infessura naïvely, "sic finita fuit
eius memoria."

The Sacred College consisted at the time of twenty-seven cardinals, four of whom were absent
at distant sees and unable to reach Rome in time for the immuring of the Conclave. The twenty-three
present were, in the order of their seniority: Roderigo Borgia, Oliviero Caraffa, Giuliano
della Rovere, Battista Zeno, Giovanni Michieli, Giorgio Costa, Girolamo della Rovere, Paolo
Fregosi, Domenico della Rovere, Giovanni dei Conti, Giovanni Giacomo Sclafetani, Lorenzo Cibo,
Ardicino della Porta, Antoniotto Pallavicino, Maffeo Gerardo, Francesco Piccolomini, Raffaele
Riario, Giovanni Battista Savelli, Giovanni Colonna, Giovanni Orsini, Ascanio Maria Sforza,
Giovanni de'Medici, and Francesco Sanseverino.

On August 6 they assembled in St. Peter's to hear the Sacred Mass of the Holy Ghost, which
was said by Giuliano della Rovere on the tomb of the Prince of the Apostles, and to listen
to the discourse "Pro eligendo Pontefice," delivered by the learned and eloquent Bishop of
Carthage. Thereafter the Cardinals swore upon the Gospels faithfully to observe their trust,
and thereupon the Conclave was immured.

According to the dispatches of Valori, the Ferrarese ambassador in Rome, it was expected that
either the Cardinal of Naples (Oliviero Caraffa) or the Cardinal of Lisbon (Giorgio Costa)
would be elected to the Pontificate; and according to the dispatch of Cavalieri the ambassador
of Modena, the King of France had deposited 200,000 ducats with a Roman banker to forward the
election of Giuliano della Rovere. Nevertheless, early on the morning of August 11 it was announced
that Roderigo Borgia was elected Pope, and we have it on the word of Valori that the election
was unanimous, for he wrote on the morrow to the Council of Eight (the Signory of Florence)
that after long contention Alexander VI was created "omnium consensum--ne li manco un solo voto."

The subject of this election is one with which we rarely find an author dealing temperately
or with a proper and sane restraint. To vituperate in superlatives seems common to most who
have taken in hand this and other episodes in the history of the Borgias. Every fresh writer
who comes to the task appears to be mainly inspired by a desire to emulate his forerunners,
allowing his pen to riot zestfully in the accumulation of scandalous matter, and seeking to
increase if possible its lurid quality by a degree or two. As a rule there is not even an attempt
made to put forward evidence in substantiation of anything that is alleged. Wild and sweeping
statement takes the place that should be held by calm deduction and reasoned comment.

"He was the worst Pontiff that ever filled St. Peter's Chair," is one of these sweeping statements,
culled from the pages of an able, modern, Italian author, whose writings, sound in all that
concerns other matters, are strewn with the most foolish extravagances and flagrant inaccuracies
in connection with Alexander VI and his family.

To say of him, as that writer says, that "he was the worst Pontiff that ever filled St. Peter's
Chair," can only be justified by an utter ignorance of papal history. You have but to compare
him calmly and honestly--your mind stripped of preconceptions--with the wretched and wholly
contemptible Innocent VIII whom he succeeded, or with the latter's precursor, the terrible
Sixtus IV.

That he was better than these men, morally or ecclesiastically, is not to be pretended; that
he was worse--measuring achievement by opportunity--is strenuously to be denied. For the rest,
that he was infinitely more gifted and infinitely more a man of affairs is not to be gainsaid
by any impartial critic.

If we take him out of the background of history in which he is set, and judge him singly and
individually, we behold a man who, as a churchman and Christ's Vicar, fills us with horror
and loathing, as a scandalous exception from what we are justified in supposing from his office
must have been the rule. Therefore, that he may be judged by the standard of his own time if
he is to be judged at all, if we are even to attempt to understand him, have we given a sketch
of the careers of those Popes who immediately preceded him, with whom as Vice-Chancellor he
was intimately associated, and whose examples were the only papal examples that he possessed.

That this should justify his course we do not pretend. A good churchman in his place would
have bethought him of his duty to the Master whose Vicar he was, and would have aimed at the
sorely needed reform. But we are not concerned to study him as a good churchman. It is by no
means clear that we are concerned to study him as a churchman at all. The Papacy had by this
time become far less of an ecclesiastical than a political force; the weapons of the Church
were there, but they were being employed for the furtherance not of churchly, but of worldly
aims. If the Pontiffs in the pages of this history remembered or evoked their spiritual authority,
it was but to employ it as an instrument for the advancement of their temporal schemes. And
personal considerations entered largely into these.

Self-aggrandizement, insufferable in a cleric, is an ambition not altogether unpardonable in
a temporal prince; and if Alexander aimed at self-aggrandizement and at the founding of a permanent
dynasty for his family, he did not lack examples in the careers of those among his predecessors
with whom he had been associated.

That the Papacy was Christ's Vicarage was a fact that had long since been obscured by the conception
that the Papacy was a kingdom of this world. In striving, then, for worldly eminence by every
means in his power, Alexander is no more blameworthy than any other. What, then, remains? The
fact that he succeeded better than any of his forerunners. But are we on that account to select
him for the special object of our vituperation? The Papacy had tumbled into a slough of materialism
in which it was to wallow even after the Reformation had given it pause and warning. Under
what obligation was Alexander VI, more than any other Pope, to pull it out of that slough?
As he found it, so he carried it on, as much a self-seeker, as much a worldly prince, as much
a family man and as little a churchman as any of those who had gone immediately before him.

By the outrageous discrepancy between the Papacy's professed and actual aims it was fast becoming
an object of execration, and it is Alexander's misfortune that, coming when he did, he has
remained as the type of his class.

The mighty of this world shall never want for detractors. The mean and insignificant, writhing
under the consciousness of his shortcomings, ministers to his self-love by vilifying the great
that he may lessen the gap between himself and them. To achieve greatness is to achieve enemies.
It is to excite envy; and as envy no seed can raise up such a crop of hatred.

Does this need labouring? Have we not abundant instances about us of the vulgar tittle-tattle
and scandalous unfounded gossip which, born Heaven alone knows on what back-stairs or in what
servants' hall, circulates currently to the detriment of the distinguished in every walk of
life? And the more conspicuously great the individual, the greater the incentive to slander
him, for the interest of the slander is commensurate with the eminence of the personage assailed.

Such to a great extent is the case of Alexander VI. He was too powerful for the stomachs of
many of his contemporaries, and he and his son Cesare had a way of achieving their ends. Since
that could not be denied, it remained to inveigh loudly against the means adopted; and with
pious uplifting of hands and eyes, to cry, "Shame!" and "Horror!" and "The like has never been
heard of!" in wilful blindness to what had been happening at the Vatican for generations.

Later writers take up the tale of it. It is a fine subject about which to make phrases, and
the passion for phrase-making will at times outweigh the respect for truth. Thus Villari with
his "the worst Pontiff that ever filled St. Peter's Chair," and again, elsewhere, echoing what
many a writer has said before him from Guicciardini downwards, in utter and diametric opposition
to the true facts of the case: "The announcement of his election was received throughout Italy
with universal dismay." To this he adds the ubiquitous story of King Ferrante's bursting into
tears at the news--"though never before known to weep for the death of his own children."

Let us pause a moment to contemplate the grief the Neapolitan King. What picture is evoked
in your minds by that statement of his bursting into tears at Alexander's election? We see--do
we not?--a pious, noble soul, horror-stricken at the sight of the Papacy's corruption; a truly
sublime figure, whose tears will surely stand to his credit in heaven; a great heart breaking;
a venerable head bowed down with lofty, righteous grief, weeping over the grave of Christian
hopes. Such surely is the image we are meant to see by Guicciardini and his many hollow echoers.

Turn we now for corroboration of that noble picture to the history of this same Ferrante. A
shock awaits us. We find, in this bastard of the great and brilliant Alfonso a cruel, greedy,
covetous monster, so treacherous and so fiendishly brutal that we are compelled to extend him
the charity of supposing him to be something less than sane. Let us consider but one of his
characteristics. He loved to have his enemies under his own supervision, and he kept them so--the
living ones caged and guarded, the dead ones embalmed and habited as in life; and this collection
of mummies was his pride and delight. More, and worse could we tell you of him. But--ex pede,
Herculem.

This man shed tears we are told. Not another word. It is left to our imagination to paint for
us a picture of this weeping; it is left to us to conclude that these precious tears were symbolical
of the grief of Italy herself; that the catastrophe that provoked them must have been terrible
indeed.

But now that we know what manner of man was this who wept, see how different is the inference
that we may draw from his sorrow. Can we still imagine it--as we are desired to do--to have
sprung from a lofty, Christian piety? Let us track those tears to their very source, and we
shall find it to be compounded of rage and fear.

Ferrante saw trouble ahead of him with Lodovico Sforza, concerning a matter which shall be
considered in the next chapter, and not at all would it suit him at such a time that such a
Pope as Alexander--who, he had every reason to suppose, would be on the side of Lodovico--should
rule in Rome.

So he had set himself, by every means in his power, to oppose Roderigo's election. His rage
at the news that all his efforts had been vain, his fear of a man of Roderigo's mettle, and
his undoubted dread of the consequences to himself of his frustrated opposition of that man's
election, may indeed have loosened the tears of this Ferrante who had not even wept at the
death of his own children. We say "may" advisedly; for the matter, from beginning to end, is
one of speculation. If we leave it for the realm of fact, we have to ask--Were there any tears
at all? Upon what authority rests the statement of the Florentine historian? What, in fact,
does he say?

"It is well known that the King of Naples, for all that in public he dissembled the pain it
caused him, signified to the queen, his wife, with tears--which were Unusual in him even on
the death of his children--that a Pope had been created who would be most pernicious to Italy."

So that, when all is said, Ferrante shed his kingly tears to his wife in private, and to her
in private he delivered his opinion of the new Pontiff. How, then, came Guicciardini to know
of the matter? True, he says, "It is well known"--meaning that he had those tears upon hearsay.
It is, of course, possible that Ferrante's queen may have repeated what passed between herself
and the king; but that would surely have been in contravention of the wishes of her husband,
who had, be it remembered, "dissembled his grief in public." And Ferrante does not impress
one as the sort of husband whose wishes his wife would be bold enough to contravene.

It is surprising that upon no better authority than this should these precious tears of Ferrante's
have been crystallized in history.

If this trivial instance has been dealt with at such length it is because, for one reason,
it is typical of the foundation of so many of the Borgia legends, and, for another, because
when history has been carefully sifted for evidence of the "universal dismay with which the
election of Roderigo Borgia was received" King Ferrante's is the only case of dismay that comes
through the mesh at all. Therefore was it expedient to examine it minutely.

That "universal dismay"--like the tears of Ferrante--rests upon the word of Guicciardini. He
says that "men were filled with dread and horror by this election, because it had been effected
by such evil ways [con arte si brutte]; and no less because the nature and condition of the
person elected were largely known to many."

Guicciardini is to be read with the greatest caution and reserve when he deals with Rome. His
bias against, and his enmity of, the Papacy are as obvious as they are notorious, and in his
endeavours to bring it as much as possible into discredit he does not even spare his generous
patrons, the Medicean Popes--Leo X and Clement VII. If he finds it impossible to restrain his
invective against these Pontiffs, who heaped favours and honours upon him, what but virulence
can be expected of him when he writes of Alexander VI? He is largely to blame for the flagrant
exaggeration of many of the charges brought against the Borgias; that he hated them we know,
and that when he wrote of them he dipped his golden Tuscan pen in vitriol and set down what
he desired the world to believe rather than what contemporary documents would have revealed
to him, we can prove here and now from that one statement of his which we have quoted.

Who were the men who were filled with dismay, horror, or dread at Roderigo's election?

The Milanese? No. For we know that Cardinal Ascanio Sforza, the Duke of Milan's brother, was
the most active worker in favour of Roderigo's election, and that this same election was received
and celebrated in Milan with public rejoicings.

The Florentines? No. For the Medici were friendly to the House of Borgia, and we know that
they welcomed the election, and that from Florence Manfredi--the Ferrarese ambassador--wrote
home: "It is said he will be a glorious Pontiff" ("Dicesi che sará glorioso Pontefice").

Were Venice, Genoa, Mantua, Siena, or Lucca dismayed by this election? Surely not, if the superlatively
laudatory congratulations of their various ambassadors are of any account.

Venice confessed that "a better pastor could not have been found for the Church," since he
had proved himself "a chief full of experience and an excellent cardinal."

Genoa said that "his merit lay not in having been elected, but in having been desired."

Mantua declared that it "had long awaited the pontificate of one who, during forty years, had
rendered himself, by his wisdom and justice, capable of any office."

Siena expressed its joy at seeing the summit of eminence attained by a Pope solely upon his
merits--"Pervenuto alla dignitá pontificale meramente per meriti proprii."

Lucca praised the excellent choice made, and extolled the accomplishments, the wisdom, and
experience of the Pontiff.

Not dismay, then, but actual rejoicing must have been almost universal in Italy on the election
of Pope Alexander VI. And very properly--always considering the Pontificate as the temporal
State it was then being accounted; for Roderigo's influence was vast, his intelligence was
renowned, and had again and again been proved, and his administrative talents and capacity
for affairs were known to all. He was well-born, cultured, of a fine and noble presence, and
his wealth was colossal, comprising the archbishoprics of Valencia and Porto, the bishoprics
of Majorca, Carthage, Agria, the abbeys of Subiaco, the Monastery of Our Lady of Bellefontaine,
the deaconry of Sancta Maria in Via Lata, and his offices of Vice-Chancellor and Dean of Holy
Church.

We are told that he gained his election by simony. It is very probable that he did. But the
accusation has never been categorically established, and until that happens it would be well
to moderate the vituperation hurled at him. Charges of that simony are common; conclusive proof
there is none. We find Giacomo Trotti, the French ambassador in Milan, writing to the Duke
of Ferrara a fortnight after Roderigo's election that "the Papacy has been sold by simony and
a thousand rascalities, which is a thing ignominious and detestable."

Ignominious and detestable indeed, if true; but be it remembered that Trotti was the ambassador
of France, whose candidate, backed by French influence and French gold, as we have seen, was
della Rovere; and, even if his statement was true, the "ignominious and detestable thing" was
at least no novelty. Yet Guicciardini, treating of this matter, says: "He gained the Pontificate
owing to discord between the Cardinals Ascanio Sforza and Giuliano di San Pietro in Vincoli;
and still more because, in a manner without precedent in that age [con esempio nuovo in quella
etá] he openly bought the votes of many cardinals, some with money, some with promises of his
offices and benefices, which were very great."

Again Guicciardini betrays his bias by attempting to render Roderigo's course, assuming it
for the moment to be truly represented, peculiarly odious by this assertion that it was without
precedent in that age.

Without precedent! What of the accusations of simony against Innocent VIII, which rest upon
a much sounder basis than these against Alexander, and what of those against Sixtus IV? Further,
if a simoniacal election was unprecedented, what of Lorenzo Valla's fierce indictment of simony--for
which he so narrowly escaped the clutches of the Inquisition some sixty years before this date?

Simony was rampant at the time, and it is the rankest hypocrisy to make this outcry against
Alexander's uses of it, and to forget the others.

Whether he really was elected by simony or not depends largely--so far as the evidence available
goes--upon what we are to consider as simony. If payment in the literal sense was made or promised,
then unquestionably simony there was. But this, though often asserted, still awaits proof.
If the conferring of the benefices vacated by a cardinal on his elevation to the Pontificate
is to be considered simony, then there never was a Pope yet against whom the charge could not
be levelled and established.

Consider that by his election to the Pontificate his Archbishoprics, offices, nay, his very
house itself--which at the time of which we write it was customary to abandon to pillage--are
vacated; and remember that, as Pope, they are now in his gift and that they must of necessity
be bestowed upon somebody. In a time in which Pontiffs are imbued with a spiritual sense of
their office and duties, they will naturally make such bestowals upon those whom they consider
best fitted to use them for the greater honour and glory of God. But we are dealing with no
such spiritual golden age as that when we deal with the Cinquecento, as we have already seen;
and, therefore, all that we can expect of a Pope is that he should bestow the preferment he
has vacated upon those among the cardinals whom he believes to be devoted to himself. Considering
his election in a temporal sense, it is natural that he should behave as any other temporal
prince; that he should remember those to whom he owes the Pontificate, and that he should reward
them suitably. Alexander VI certainly pursued such a course, and the greatest profit from his
election was derived by the Cardinal Sforza who--as Roderigo himself admitted--had certainly
exerted all his influence with the Sacred College to gain him the Pontificate. Alexander gave
him the vacated Vice-Chancellorship (for which, when all is said, Ascanio Sforza was excellently
fitted), his vacated palace on Banchi Vecchi, the town of Nepi, and the bishopric of Agri.

To Orsini he gave the Church of Carthage and the legation of Marche; to Colonna the Abbey of
Subiaco; to Savelli the legation of Perugia (from which he afterwards recalled him, not finding
him suited to so difficult a charge); to Raffaele Riario went Spanish benefices worth four
thousand ducats yearly; to Sanseverino Roderigo's house in Milan, whilst he consented that
Sanseverino's nephew--known as Fracassa--should enter the service of the Church with a condotta
of a hundred men-at-arms and a stipend of thirteen thousand ducats yearly.

Guicciardini says of all this that Ascanio Sforza induced many of the cardinals "to that abominable
contract, and not only by request and persuasion, but by example; because, corrupt and of an
insatiable appetite for riches, he bargained for himself, as the reward of so much turpitude,
the Vice-Chancellorships, churches, fortresses [the very plurals betray the frenzy of exaggeration
dictated by his malice] and his [Roderigo's] palace in Rome full of furniture of great value."

What possible proof can Guicciardini have--what possible proof can there be--of such a "bargain"?
It rests upon purest assumption formed after those properties had changed hands--Ascanio being
rewarded by them for his valuable services, and, also--so far as the Vice-Chancellorship was
concerned--being suitably preferred. To say that Ascanio received them in consequence of a
"bargain" and as the price of his vote and electioneering services is not only an easy thing
to say, but it is the obvious thing for any one to say who aims at defaming.

It is surprising that we should find in Guicciardini no mention of the four mule-loads of silver
removed before the election from Cardinal Roderigo's palace on Banchi Vecchi to Cardinal Ascanio's
palace in Trastevere. This is generally alleged to have been part of the price of Ascanio's
services. Whether it was so, or whether, as has also been urged, it was merely removed to save
it from the pillaging by the mob of the palace of the cardinal elected to the Pontificate,
the fact is interesting as indicating in either case Cardinal Roderigo's assurance of his election.

M. Yriarte does not hesitate to say: "We know to-day, by the dispatches of Valori, the narrative
of Girolamo Porzio, and the Diarium of Burchard, the Master of Ceremonies, each of the stipulations
made with the electors whose votes were bought."

Now whilst we do know from Valori and Porzio what benefices Alexander actually conferred, we
do not know, nor could they possibly have told us, what stipulations had been made which these
benefices were insinuated to satisfy.

Burchard's Diarium might be of more authority on this subject, for Burchard was the Master
of Ceremonies at the Vatican; but, unfortunately for the accuracy of M. Yriarte's statement,
Burchard is silent on the subject, for the excellent reason that there is no diary for the
period under consideration. Burchard's narrative is interrupted on the death of Innocent VIII,
on July 12, and not resumed until December 2, when it is not retrospective.

There is, it is true, the Diarium of Infessura. But that is of no more authority on such a
matter than the narrative of Porzio or the letters of Valori.

Lord Acton--in his essay upon this subject--has not been content to rest the imputation of
simony upon such grounds as satisfied M. Yriarte. He has realized that the only testimony of
any real value in such a case would be the actual evidence of such cardinals as might be willing
to bear witness to the attempt to bribe them. And he takes it for granted--as who would not
at this time of day, and in view of such positive statements as abound?--that such evidence
has been duly collected; thus, he tells us confidently that the charge rests upon the evidence
of those cardinals who refused Roderigo's bribes.

That it most certainly does not. If it did there would be an end to the matter, and so much
ink would not have been spilled over it; but no single cardinal has left any such evidence
as Lord Acton supposes and alleges. It suffices to consider that, according to the only evidences
available--the Casanatense Codices(1) and the dispatches of that same Valori(2) whom M. Yriarte
so confidently cites, Roderigo Borgia's election was unanimous. Who, then, were these cardinals
who refused his bribes? Or are we to suppose that, notwithstanding that refusal--a refusal
which we may justifiably suppose to have been a scandalized and righteously indignant one--they
still afforded him their votes?

  1  "...essendo concordi tutti i cardinali, quasi da contrari voti rivolti
tutti in favore di uno solo, crearono lui sommo ponteflce" (Casanatense
MSS). See P. Leonetti, Alessandro VI. 2 "Fu pubblicato il Cardinale
Vice-Cancelliere in Sommo Pontefice Alessandro VI(to) nuncupato, el
quale dopo una lunga contentione fu creato omnium consensum--ne ii manco
un solo voto" (Valori's letter to the Otto di Pratica, August 12,
1492). See Supplement to Appendix in E. Thuasne's edition of Burchard's
Diarium.

This charge of simony was levelled with the object of making Alexander VI appear singularly
heinous. So much has that object engrossed and blinded those inspired by it, that, of itself,
it betrays them. Had their horror been honest, had it sprung from true principles, had it been
born of any but a desire to befoul and bespatter at all costs Roderigo Borgia, it is not against
him that they would have hurled their denunciations, but against the whole College of Cardinals
which took part in the sacrilege and which included three future Popes.(1)

  1  Cardinals Piccolomini, de'Medici, and Giuliano della Rovere.

Assuming not only that there was simony, but that it was on as wholesale a scale as was alleged,
and that for gold--coined or in the form of benefices--Roderigo bought the cardinal's votes,
what then? He bought them, true. But they--they sold him their sacred trust, their duty to
their God, their priestly honour, their holy vows. For the gold he offered them they bartered
these. So much admitted, then surely, in that transaction, those cardinals were the prostitutes!
The man who bought so much of them, at least, was on no baser level than were they. Yet invective
singles him out for its one object, and so betrays the aforethought malice of its inspiration.

Our quarrel is with that; with that, and with those writers who have taken Alexander's simony
for granted--eagerly almost--for the purpose of heaping odium upon him by making him appear
a scandalous exception to the prevailing rule.

If, nevertheless, we hold, as we have said, that simony probably did take place, we do so,
not so much upon the inconclusive evidence of the fact, as upon the circumstance that it had
become almost an established custom to purchase the tiara, and that Roderigo Borgia--since
his ambition clearly urged him to the Pontificate--would have been an exception had he refrained.

It may seem that to have disputed so long to conclude by admitting so much is no better than
a waste of labour. Not so, we hope. Our aim has been to correct the adjustment of the focus
and properly to trim the light in which Roderigo Borgia is to be viewed, to the end that you
may see him as he was--neither better nor worse--the creature of his times, of his environment,
and of the system in which he was reared and trained. Thus shall you also get a clearer view
of his son Cesare, when presently he takes the stage more prominently.

During the seventeen days of the interregnum between the death of Innocent and the election
of Alexander the wild scenes usual to such seasons had been taking place in Rome; and, notwithstanding
the Cardinal-Chamberlain's prompt action in seizing the gates and bridges, and the patrols'
endeavours to maintain order, crime was unfettered to such an extent that some 220 murders
are computed to have taken place--giving the terrible average of thirteen a day.

It was a very natural epilogue to the lax rule of the lethargic Innocent. One of the first
acts of Alexander's reign was to deal summarily with this lawlessness. He put down violence
with a hard hand that knew no mercy. He razed to the ground the house of a murderer caught
red-handed, and hanged him above the ruins, and so dealt generally that such order came to
prevail as had never before been known in Rome.

Infessura tells us how, in the very month of his election, he appointed inspectors of prisons
and four commissioners to administer justice, and that he himself gave audience on Tuesdays
and settled disputes, concluding, "et justitiam mirabili modo facere coepit."

He paid all salaries promptly--a striking departure, it would seem, from what had been usual
under his predecessor--and the effect of his improved and strenuous legislation was shortly
seen in the diminished prices of commodities.

He was crowned Pope on August 6, on the steps of the Basilica of St. Peter, by the Cardinal-Archdeacon
Piccolomini. The ceremony was celebrated with a splendour worthy of the splendid figure that
was its centre. Through the eyes of Michele Ferno--despite his admission that he is unable
to convey a worthy notion of the spectacle--you may see the gorgeous procession to the Lateran
in which Alexander VI showed himself to the applauding Romans; the multitude of richly adorned
men, gay and festive; the seven hundred priests and prelates, with their familiars the splendid
cavalcade of knights and nobles of Rome; the archers and Turkish horsemen, and the Palatine
Guard, with its great halberds and flashing shields; the twelve white horses, with their golden
bridles, led by footmen; and then Alexander himself on a snow-white horse, "serene of brow
and of majestic dignity," his hand uplifted--the Fisherman's Ring upon its forefinger--to bless
the kneeling populace. The chronicler flings into superlatives when he comes to praise the
personal beauty of the man, his physical vigour and health, "which go to increase the veneration
shown him."

Thus in the brilliant sunshine of that Italian August, amid the plaudits of assembled Rome,
amid banners and flowers, music and incense, the flash of steel and the blaze of decorations
with the Borgian arms everywhere displayed--or, a grazing steer gules--Alexander VI passes
to the Vatican, the aim and summit of his vast ambition.

Friends and enemies alike have sung the splendours of that coronation, and the Bull device--as
you can imagine--plays a considerable part in those verses, be they paeans or lampoons. The
former allude to Borgia as "the Bull," from the majesty and might of the animal that was displayed
upon their shield; the latter render it the subject of much scurrilous invective, to which
it lends itself as readily. And thereafter, in almost all verse of their epoch, writers ever
say "the Bull" when they mean the Borgia.

CHAPTER IV. BORGIA ALLIANCES

At the time of his father's election to the throne of St. Peter, Cesare Borgia--now in his
eighteenth year--was still at the University of Pisa.

It is a little odd, considering the great affection for his children which was ever one of
Roderigo's most conspicuous characteristics, that he should not have ordered Cesare to Rome
at once, to share in the general rejoicings. It has been suggested that Alexander wished to
avoid giving scandal by the presence of his children at such a time. But that again looks like
a judgement formed upon modern standards, for by the standards of his day one cannot conceive
that he would have given very much scandal; moreover, it is to be remembered that Lucrezia
and Giuffredo, at least, were in Rome at the time of their father's election to the tiara.

However that may be, Cesare did not quit Pisa until August of that year 1492, and even then
not for Rome, but for Spoleto--in accordance with his father's orders--where he took up his
residence in the castle. Thence he wrote a letter to Piero de'Medici, which is interesting,
firstly, as showing the good relations prevailing between them; secondly, as refuting a story
in Guicciardini, wherewith that historian, ready, as ever, to belittle the Borgias, attempts
to show him cutting a poor figure. He tells us(1) that, whilst at Pisa, Cesare had occasion
to make an appeal to Piero de'Medici in the matter of a criminal case connected with one of
his familiars; that he went to Florence and waited several hours in vain for an audience, whereafter
he returned to Pisa "accounting himself despised and not a little injured."

  1  Istoria d'Italia, tom. V.

No doubt Guicciardini is as mistaken in this as in many another matter, for the letter written
from Spoleto expresses his regret that, on the occasion of his passage through Florence (on
his way from Pisa to Spoleto), he should not have had time to visit Piero, particularly as
there was a matter upon which he desired urgently to consult with him. He recommends to Piero
his faithful Remolino, whose ambition it is to occupy the chair of canon law at the University
of Pisa, and begs his good offices in that connection. That Juan Vera, Cesare's preceptor and
the bearer of that letter, took back a favourable answer is highly probable, for in Fabroni's
Hist. Acad. Pisan we find this Remolino duly established as a lecturer on canon law in the
following year.

The letter is further of interest as showing Cesare's full consciousness of the importance
of his position; its tone and its signature--"your brother, Cesar de Borgia, Elect of Valencia"--being
such as were usual between princes.

The two chief aims of Alexander VI, from the very beginning of his pontificate, were to re-establish
the power of the Church, which was then the most despised of the temporal States of Italy,
and to promote the fortune of his children. Already on the very day of his coronation he conferred
upon Cesare the bishopric of Valencia, whose revenues amounted to an annual yield of sixteen
thousand ducats. For the time being, however, he had his hands very full of other matters,
and it behoved him to move slowly at first and with the extremest caution.

The clouds of war were lowering heavily over Italy when Alexander came to St. Peter's throne,
and it was his first concern to find for himself a safe position against the coming of the
threatening storm. The chief menace to the general peace was Lodovico Maria Sforza, surnamed
Il Moro,(1) who sat as regent for his nephew, Duke Gian Galeazzo, upon the throne of Milan.
That regency he had usurped from Gian Galeazzo's mother, and he was now in a fair way to usurp
the throne itself. He kept his nephew virtually a prisoner in the Castle of Pavia, together
with his young bride, Isabella of Aragon, who had been sent thither by her father, the Duke
of Calabria, heir to the crown of Naples.

  1  Touching Lodovico Maria's by-name of "Il Moro"--which is generally
translated as "The Moor," whilst in one writer we have found him
mentioned as "Black Lodovico," Benedetto Varchi's explanation (in his
Storia Fiorentina) may be of interest. He tells us that Lodovico was not
so called on account of any swarthiness of complexion, as is supposed by
Guicciardini, because, on the contrary, he was fair; nor yet on account
of his device, showing a Moorish squire, who, brush in hand, dusts the
gown of a young woman in regal apparel, with the motto, "Per Italia
nettar d'ogni bruttura"; this device of the Moor, he tells us, was a
rébus or pun upon the word "moro," which also means the mulberry, and
was so meant by Lodovico. The mulberry burgeons at the end of winter
and blossoms very early. Thus Lodovico symbolized his own prudence and
readiness to seize opportunity betimes.

Gian Galeazzo thus bestowed, Lodovico Maria went calmly about the business of governing, like
one who did not mean to relinquish the regency save to become duke. But it happened that a
boy was born to the young prisoners at Pavia, whereupon, spurred perhaps into activity by this
parenthood and stimulated by the thought that they had now a son's interests to fight for as
well as their own, they made appeal to King Ferrante of Naples that he should enforce his grandson-in-law's
rights to the throne of Milan. King Ferrante could desire nothing better, for if his grandchild
and her husband reigned in Milan, and by his favour and contriving, great should be his influence
in the North of Italy. Therefore he stood their friend.

Matters were at this stage when Alexander VI ascended the papal throne.

This election gave Ferrante pause, for, as we have seen, he had schemed for a Pope devoted
to his interests, who would stand by him in the coming strife, and his schemes were rudely
shaken now. Whilst he was still cogitating the matter of his next move, the wretched Francesco
Cibo (Pope Innocent's son) offered to sell the papal fiefs of Cervetri and Anguillara, which
had been made over to him by his father, to Gentile Orsini--the head of his powerful house.
And Gentile purchased them under a contract signed at the palace of Cardinal Giuliano della
Rovere, on September 3, for the sum of forty thousand ducats advanced him by Ferrante.

Alexander protested strongly against this illegal transaction, for Cervetri and Anguillara
were fiefs of the Church, and neither had Cibo the right to sell nor Orsini the right to buy
them. Moreover, that they should be in the hands of a powerful vassal of Naples such as Orsini
suited the Pope as little as it suited Lodovico Maria Sforza. It stirred the latter into taking
measures against the move he feared Ferrante might make to enforce Gian Galeazzo's claims.

Lodovico Maria went about this with that sly shrewdness so characteristic of him, so well symbolized
by his mulberry badge--a humorous shrewdness almost, which makes him one of the most delightful
rogues in history, just as he was one of the most debonair and cultured. He may indeed be considered
as one of the types of the subtle, crafty, selfish politician that was the ideal of Macchiavelli.

You see him, then, effacing the tight-lipped, cunning smile from his comely face and pointing
out to Venice with a grave, sober countenance how little it can suit her to have the Neapolitan
Spaniards ruffling it in the north, as must happen if Ferrante has his way with Milan. The
truth of this was so obvious that Venice made haste to enter into a league with him, and into
the camp thus formed came, for their own sakes, Mantua, Ferrara, and Siena. The league was
powerful enough thus to cause Ferrante to think twice before he took up the cudgels for Gian
Galeazzo. If Lodovico could include the Pope, the league's might would be so paralysing that
Ferrante would cease to think at all about his grandchildren's affairs.

Foreseeing this, Ferrante had perforce to dry the tears Guicciardini has it that he shed, and,
replacing them by a smile, servile and obsequious, repaired, hat in hand, to protest his friendship
for the Pope's Holiness.

And so, in December of 1492, came the Prince of Altamura--Ferrante's second son--to Rome to
lay his father's homage at the feet of the Pontiff, and at the same time to implore his Holiness
to refuse the King of Hungary the dispensation the latter was asking of the Holy See, to enable
him to repudiate his wife, Donna Leonora--Ferrante's daughter.

Altamura was received in Rome and sumptuously entertained by the Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere.
This cardinal had failed, as we have seen, to gain the Pontificate for himself, despite the
French influence by which he had been supported. Writhing under his defeat, and hating the
man who had defeated him with a hatred so bitter and venomous that the imprint of it is on
almost every act of his life--from the facilities he afforded for the assignment to Orsini
of the papal fiefs that Cibo had to sell--he was already scheming for the overthrow of Alexander.
To this end he needed great and powerful friends; to this end had he lent himself to the Cibo-Orsini
transaction; to this end did he manifest himself the warm well-wisher of Ferrante; to this
end did he cordially welcome the latter's son and envoy, and promise his support to Ferrante's
petition.

But the Holy Father was by no means as anxious for the friendship of the old wolf of Naples.
The matter of the King of Hungary was one that required consideration, and, meanwhile, he may
have hinted slyly there was between Naples and Rome a little matter of two fiefs to be adjusted.

Thus his most shrewd Holiness thought to gain a little time, and in that time he might look
about him and consider what alliances would suit his interests best.

At this Cardinal della Rovere, in high dudgeon, flung out of Rome and away to his Castle of
Ostia to fortify--to wield the sword of St. Paul, since he had missed the keys of St. Peter.
It was a shrewd move. He foresaw the injured dignity of the Spanish House of Naples, and Ferrante's
wrath at the Pope's light treatment of him and apathy for his interests; and the cardinal knew
that with Ferrante were allied the mighty houses of Colonna and Orsini. Thus, by his political
divorcement from the Holy See, he flung in his lot with theirs, hoping for red war and the
deposition of Alexander.

But surely he forgot Milan and Lodovico Maria, whose brother, Ascanio Sforza, was at the Pope's
elbow, the energetic friend to whose efforts Alexander owed the tiara, and who was therefore
hated by della Rovere perhaps as bitterly as Alexander himself.

Alexander went calmly about the business of fortifying the Vatican and the Castle of Sant'
Angelo, and gathering mercenaries into his service. And, lest any attempt should be made upon
his life when he went abroad, he did so with an imposing escort of men-at-arms; which so vexed
and fretted King Ferrante, that he did not omit to comment upon it in scathing terms in a letter
that presently we shall consider. For the rest, the Pope's Holiness preserved an unruffled
front in the face of the hostile preparations that were toward in the kingdom of Naples, knowing
that he could check them when he chose to lift his finger and beckon the Sforza into alliance.
And presently Naples heard an alarming rumour that Lodovico Maria had, in fact, made overtures
to the Pope, and that the Pope had met these advances to the extent of betrothing his daughter
Lucrezia to Giovanni Sforza, Lord of Pesaro and cousin to Lodovico.

So back to the Vatican went the Neapolitan envoys with definite proposals of an alliance to
be cemented by a marriage between Giuffredo Borgia--aged twelve--and Ferrante's granddaughter
Lucrezia of Aragon. The Pope, with his plans but half-matured as yet, temporized, was evasive,
and continued to arm and to recruit. At last, his arrangements completed, he abruptly broke
off his negotiations with Naples, and on April 25, 1493, publicly proclaimed that he had joined
the northern league.

The fury of Ferrante, who realized that he had been played with and outwitted, was expressed
in a rabid letter to his ambassador at the Court of Spain.

"This Pope," he wrote, "leads a life that is the abomination of all, without respect for the
seat he occupies. He cares for nothing save to aggrandize his children, by fair means or foul,
and this is his sole desire. From the beginning of his Pontificate he has done nothing but
disturb the peace, molesting everybody, now in one way, now in another. Rome is more full of
soldiers than of priests, and when he goes abroad it is with troops of men-at-arms about him,
with helmets on their heads and lances by their sides, all his thoughts being given to war
and to our hurt; nor does he overlook anything that can be used against us, not only inciting
in France the Prince of Salerno and other of our rebels, but befriending every bad character
in Italy whom he deems our enemy; and in all things he proceeds with the fraud and dissimulation
natural to him, and to make money he sells even the smallest office and preferment."

Thus Ferrante of the man whose friendship he had been seeking some six weeks earlier, and who
had rejected his advances. It is as well to know the precise conditions under which that letter
was indited, for extracts from it are too often quoted against Alexander. These conditions
known, and known the man who wrote it, the letter's proper value is at once apparent.

It was Ferrante's hope, and no doubt the hope of Giuliano della Rovere, that the King of Spain
would lend an ear to these grievances, and move in the matter of attempting to depose Alexander;
but an event more important than any other in the whole history of Spain--or of Europe, for
that matter--was at the moment claiming its full attention, and the trifling affairs of the
King of Naples--trifling by comparison--went all unheeded. For this was the year in which the
Genoese navigator, Cristofero Colombo, returned to tell of the new and marvellous world he
had discovered beyond the seas, and Ferdinand and Isabella were addressing an appeal to the
Pope--as Ruler of the World--to establish them in the possession of the discovered continent.
Whereupon the Pope drew a line from pole to pole, and granted to Spain the dominion over all
lands discovered, or to be discovered, one hundred miles westward of Cape Verde and the Azores.

And thus Ferrante's appeal to Spain against a Pope who showed himself so ready and complaisant
a friend to Spain went unheeded by Ferdinand and Isabella. And what time the Neapolitan nursed
his bitter chagrin, the alliance between Rome and Milan was consolidated by the marriage of
Lucrezia Borgia to Giovanni Sforza, the comely weakling who was Lord of Pesaro and Cotignola.

Lucrezia Borgia's story has been told elsewhere; her rehabilitation has been undertaken by
a great historian(1) among others, and all serious-minded students must be satisfied at this
time of day that the Lucrezia Borgia of Hugo's tragedy is a creature of fiction, bearing little
or no resemblance to the poor lady who was a pawn in the ambitious game played by her father
and her brother Cesare, before she withdrew to Ferrara, where eventually she died in child-birth
in her forty-first year. We know that she left the duke, her husband, stricken with a grief
that was shared by his subjects, to whom she had so deeply endeared herself by her exemplary
life and loving rule.(2)

  1  Ferdinand Gregorovius, Lucrezia Borgia.
2 See, inter alia, the letters of Alfonso d'Este and Giovanni Gonzaga on
her death, quoted in Gregorovius, Lucrezia Borgia.

Later, in the course of this narrative, where she crosses the story of her brother Cesare,
it will be necessary to deal with some of the revolting calumnies concerning her that were
circulated, and, in passing, shall be revealed the sources of the malice that inspired them
and the nature of the evidence upon which they rest, to the eternal shame alike of those pretended
writers of fact and those avowed writers of fiction who, as dead to scruples as to chivalry,
have not hesitated to make her serve their base melodramatic or pornographic ends.

At present, however, there is no more than her first marriage to be recorded. She was fourteen
years of age at the time, and, like all the Borgias, of a rare personal beauty, with blue eyes
and golden hair. Twice before, already, had she entered into betrothal contracts with gentlemen
of her father's native Spain; but his ever-soaring ambition had caused him successively to
cancel both those unfulfilled contracts. A husband worthy of the daughter of Cardinal Roderigo
Borgia was no longer worthy of the daughter of Pope Alexander VI, for whom an alliance must
now be sought among Italy's princely houses. And so she came to be bestowed upon the Lord of
Pesaro, with a dowry of 30,000 ducats.

Her nuptials were celebrated in the Vatican on June 12, 1493, in the splendid manner worthy
of the rank of all concerned and of the reputation for magnificence which the Borgia had acquired.
That night the Pope gave a supper-party, at which were present some ten cardinals and a number
of ladies and gentlemen of Rome, besides the ambassadors of Ferrara, Venice, Milan, and France.
There was vocal and instrumental music, a comedy was performed, the ladies danced, and they
appear to have carried their gaieties well into the dawn. Hardly the sort of scene for which
the Vatican was the ideal stage. Yet at the time it should have given little or no scandal.
But what a scandal was there not, shortly afterwards, in connection with it, and how that scandal
was heaped up later, by stories so revolting of the doings of that night that one is appalled
at the minds that conceived them and the credulity that accepted them.

Infessura writes of what he heard, and he writes venomously, as he betrays by the bitter sarcasm
with which he refers to the fifty silver cups filled with sweetmeats which the Pope tossed
into the laps of ladies present at the earlier part of the celebration. "He did it," says Infessura,
"to the greater honour and glory of Almighty God and the Church of Rome." Beyond that he ventures
into no great detail, checking himself betimes, however, with a suggested motive for reticence
a thousand times worse than any formal accusation. Thus: "Much else is said, of which I do
not write, because either it is not true, or, if true, incredible."(1)

  1  "Et multa alia dicta sunt; que hic non scribo, que aut non sunt; vel
si sunt, incredibilia" (Infessura, Diarium).

It is amazing that the veil which Infessura drew with those words should have been pierced--not
indeed by the cold light of fact, but by the hot eye of prurient imagination; amazing that
he should be quoted at all--he who was not present--considering that we have the testimony
of what did take place from the pen of an eye-witness, in a letter from Gianandrea Boccaccio,
the ambassador of Ferrara, to his master.

At the end of his letter, which describes the proceedings and the wedding-gifts and their presentation,
he tells us how the night was spent. "Afterwards the ladies danced, and, as an interlude, a
worthy comedy was performed, with much music and singing, the Pope and all the rest of us being
present throughout. What else shall I add? It would make a long letter. The whole night was
spent in this manner; let your lordship decide whether well or ill."

Is not that sufficient to stop the foul mouth of inventive slander? What need to suggest happenings
unspeakable? Yet it is the fashion to quote the last sentence above from Boccaccio's letter
in the original--"totam noctem comsumpsimus; judicet modo Ex(ma.) Dominatio vestra si bene
o male"--as though decency forbade its translation; and at once this poisonous reticence does
its work, and the imagination--and not only that of the unlettered--is fired, and all manner
of abominations are speculatively conceived.

Infessura, being absent, says that the comedies performed were licentious ("lascive"). But
what comedies of that age were not? It was an age which had not yet invented modesty, as we
understand it. That Boccaccio, who was present, saw nothing unusual in the comedy--there was
only one, according to him--is proved by his description of it as "worthy" ("una degna commedia.")

M. Yriarte on this same subject(1) is not only petty, but grotesque. He chooses to relate the
incident from the point of view of Infessura, whom, by the way, he translates with an amazing
freedom,(2) and he makes bold to add regarding Gianandrea Boccaccio that: "It must also be
said that the ambassador of Ferrara, either because he did not see everything, or because he
was less austere than Infessura, was not shocked by the comedies, etc." ("soit qu'il n'ait
pas tout vu, soit qu'il ait été moins austère qu'Infessura, n'est pas choqué....")

  1  La Vie de César Borgia.
2 Thus in the matter of the fifty silver cups tossed by the Pope into
the ladies' laps, "sinum" is the word employed by Infessura--a word
which has too loosely been given its general translation of "bosom,"
ignoring that it equally means "lap" and that "lap" it obviously means
in this instance. M. Yriarte, however, goes a step further, and prefers
to translate it as "corsage," which at once, and unpleasantly, falsifies
the picture; and he adds matter to dot the I's to an extent certainly
not warranted even by Infessura.

M. Yriarte, you observe, does not scruple to opine that Boccaccio, who was present, did not
see everything; but he has no doubt that Infessura, who was not present, and who wrote from
"hearsay," missed nothing.

Alas! Too much of the history of the Borgias has been written in this spirit, and the discrimination
in the selection of authorities has ever been with a view to obtaining the more sensational
rather than the more truthful narrative.

Although it is known that Cesare came to Rome in the early part of 1493--for his presence there
is reported by Gianandrea Boccaccio in March of that year--there is no mention of him at this
time in connection with his sister's wedding. Apparently, then, he was not present, although
it is impossible to suggest where he might have been at the time.

Boccaccio draws a picture of him in that letter, which is worthy of attention, "On the day
before yesterday I found Cesare at home in Trastevere. He was on the point of setting out to
go hunting, and entirely in secular habit; that is to say, dressed in silk and armed. Riding
together, we talked a while. I am among his most intimate acquaintances. He is man of great
talent and of an excellent nature; his manners are those of the son of a great prince; above
everything, he is joyous and light-hearted. He is very modest, much superior to, and of a much
finer appearance than, his brother the Duke of Gandia, who also is not short of natural gifts.
The archbishop never had any inclination for the priesthood. But his benefice yields him over
16,000 ducats."

It may not be amiss--though perhaps no longer very necessary, after what has been written--to
say a word at this stage on the social position of bastards in the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries, to emphasize the fact that no stigma attached to Cesare Borgia or to any other member
of his father's family on the score of the illegitimacy of their birth.

It is sufficient to consider the marriages they contracted to perceive that, however shocking
the circumstances may appear to modern notions, the circumstance of their father being a Pope
not only cannot have been accounted extraordinarily scandalous (if scandalous at all) but,
on the contrary, rendered them eligible for alliances even princely.

In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries we see the bastard born of a noble, as noble as his
father, displaying his father's arms without debruisement and enjoying his rank and inheritance
unchallenged on the score of his birth, even though that inheritance should be a throne--as
witness Lucrezia's husband Giovanni, who, though a bastard of the house of Sforza, succeeded,
nevertheless, his father in the Tyranny of Pesaro and Cotignola.

Later we shall see this same Lucrezia, her illegitimacy notwithstanding, married into the noble
House of Este and seated upon the throne of Ferrara. And before then we shall have seen the
bastard Cesare married to a daughter of the royal House of Navarre. Already we have seen the
bastard Francesco Cibo take to wife the daughter of the great Lorenzo de'Medici, and we have
seen the bastard Girolamo Riario married to Caterina Sforza--a natural daughter of the ducal
House of Milan--and we have seen the pair installed in the Tyranny of Imola and Forli. A score
of other instances might be added; but these should suffice.

The matter calls for the making of no philosophies, craves no explaining, and, above all, needs
no apology. It clears itself. The fifteenth and sixteenth centuries--more just than our own
more enlightened times--attributed no shame to the men and women born out of wedlock, saw no
reason--as no reason is there, Christian or Pagan--why they should suffer for a condition that
was none of their contriving.

To mention it may be of help in visualizing and understanding that direct and forceful epoch,
and may even suggest some lenience in considering a Pope's carnal paternity. To those to whom
the point of view of the Renaissance does not promptly suggest itself from this plain statement
of fact, all unargued as we leave it, we recommend a perusal of Gianpietro de Crescenzi's Il
Nobile Romano.

The marriage of Lucrezia Borgia to Giovanni Sforza tightened the relations between the Pope
and Milan, as the Pope intended. Meanwhile, however, the crafty and mistrustful Lodovico, having
no illusions as to the true values of his allies, and realizing them to be self-seekers like
himself, with interests that were fundamentally different from his own, perceived that they
were likely only to adhere to him for just so long as it suited their own ends. He bethought
him, therefore, of looking about him for other means by which to crush the power of Naples.
France was casting longing eyes upon Italy, and it seemed to Lodovico that in France was a
ready catspaw. Charles VIII, as the representative of the House of Anjou, had a certain meagre
claim upon the throne of Naples; if he could be induced to ride south, lance on thigh, and
press that claim there would be an end to the dominion of the House of Aragon, and so an end
to Lodovico's fears of a Neapolitan interference with his own occupation of the throne of Milan.

To an ordinary schemer that should have been enough; but as a schemer Lodovico was wholly extraordinary.
His plans grew in the maturing, and took in side-issues, until he saw that Naples should be
to Charles VIII as the cheese within the mouse-trap. Let his advent into Italy to break the
power of Naples be free and open; but, once within, he should find Milan and the northern allies
between himself and his retreat, and Lodovico's should it be to bring him to his knees. Thus
schemed Lodovico to shiver, first Naples and then France, before hurling the latter back across
the Alps. A daring, bold, and yet simple plan of action. And what a power in Italy should not
Lodovico derive from its success!

Forthwith he got secretly to work upon it, sending his invitation to Charles to come and make
good his claim to Naples, offering the French troops free passage through his territory.(1)
And in the character of his invitation he played upon the nature of malformed, ambitious Charles,
whose brain was stuffed with romance and chivalric rhodomontades. The conquest of Naples was
an easy affair, no more than a step in the glorious enterprise that awaited the French king,
for from Naples he could cross to engage the Turk, and win back the Holy Sepulchre, thus becoming
a second Charles the Great.

  1  See Corlo, Storia di Milano, and Lodovico's letter to Charles VIII,
quoted therein, lib. vii.

Thus Lodovico Maria the crafty, to dazzle Charles the romantic, and to take the bull of impending
invasion by the very horns.

We have seen the failure of the appeal to Spain against the Pope made by the King of Naples.
To that failure was now added the tightening of Rome's relations with Milan by the marriage
between Lucrezia Borgia and Giovanni Sforza, and Ferrante--rumours of a French invasion, with
Naples for its objective being already in the air--realized that nothing remained him but to
make another attempt to conciliate the Pope's Holiness. And this time he went about his negotiations
in a manner better calculated to serve his ends, since his need was grown more urgent. He sent
the Prince of Altamura again to Rome for the ostensible purpose of settling the vexatious matter
of Cervetri and Anguillara and making alliance with the Holy Father, whilst behind Altamura
was the Neapolitan army ready to move upon Rome should the envoy fail this time.

But on the terms now put forward, Alexander was willing to negotiate, and so a peace was patched
up between Naples and the Holy See, the conditions of which were that Orsini should retain
the fiefs for his lifetime, but that they should revert to Holy Church on his death, and that
he should pay the Church for the life-lease of them the sum of 40,000 ducats, which already
he had paid to Francesco Cibo; that the peace should be consolidated by the marriage of the
Pope's bastard, Giuffredo, with Sancia of Aragon, the natural daughter of the Duke of Calabria,
heir to the throne of Naples, and that she should bring the Principality of Squillace and the
County of Coriate as her dowry.

The other condition demanded by Naples--at the suggestion of Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere--was
that the Pope should disgrace and dismiss his Vice­Chancellor, Ascanio Sforza, which would
have shattered the pontifical relations with Milan. To this, however, the Pope would not agree,
but he met Naples in the matter to the extent of consenting to overlook Cardinal della Rovere's
defection and receive him back into favour.

On these terms the peace was at last concluded in August of 1493, and immediately afterwards
there arrived in Rome the Sieur Peron de Basche, an envoy from the King of France charged with
the mission to prevent any alliance between Rome and Naples.

The Frenchman was behind the fair. The Pope took the only course possible under the awkward
circumstances, and refused to see the ambasssador. Thereupon the offended King of France held
a grand council "in which were proposed and treated many things against the Pope and for the
reform of the Church."

These royal outbursts of Christianity, these pious kingly frenzies to unseat an unworthy Pontiff
and reform the Church, follow always, you will observe, upon the miscarriage of royal wishes.

In the Consistory of September 1493 the Pope created twelve new cardinals to strengthen the
Sacred College in general and his own hand in particular.

Amongst these new creations were the Pope's son Cesare, and Alessandro Farnese, the brother
of the beautiful Giulia. The grant of the red hat to the latter appears to have caused some
scandal, for, owing to the Pope's relations with his sister, to which it was openly said that
Farnese owed the purple, he received the by-name of Cardinal della Gonella--Cardinal of the
Petticoat.

That was the first important step in the fortunes of the House of Farnese, which was to give
dukes to Parma, and reach the throne of Spain (in the person of Isabella Farnese) before becoming
extinct in 1758.

BOOK II. THE BULL PASCANT

Roma Bovem invenit tunc, cum fundatur aratro, Et nunc lapsa suo est ecce renata Bove.

From an inscription quoted by Bernardino Coaxo.

CHAPTER I. THE FRENCH INVASION

You see Cesare Borgia, now in his nineteenth year, raised to the purple with the title of Cardinal-Deacon
of Santa Maria Nuova--notwithstanding which, however, he continues to be known in preference,
and, indeed, to sign himself by the title of his archbishopric, Cardinal of Valencia.

It is hardly necessary to mention that, although already Bishop of Pampeluna and Archbishop
of Valencia, he had received so far only his first tonsure. He never did receive any ecclesiastical
orders beyond the minor and revocable ones.

It was said by Infessura, and has since been repeated by a multitude of historians, upon no
better authority than that of this writer on hearsay and inveterate gossip, that, to raise
Cesare to the purple, Alexander was forced to prove the legitimacy of that young man's birth,
and that to this end he procured false witnesses to swear that he was "the son of Vannozza
de' Catanei and her husband, Domenico d'Arignano." Already has this been touched upon in an
earlier chapter, here it was shown that Vannozza never had a husband of the name of d'Arignano,
and it might reasonably be supposed that this circumstance alone would have sufficed to restrain
any serious writer from accepting and repeating Infessura's unauthoritative statement.

But if more they needed, it was ready to their hands in the Bull of Sixtus IV of October 1,
1480--to which also allusion has been made--dispensing Cesare from proving his legitimacy:
"Super defectum natalium od ordines et quoecumque beneficia."

Besides that, of what avail would any false swearing have been, considering that Cesare was
openly named Borgia, that he was openly acknowledged by his father, and that in the very Bull
above mentioned he is stated to be the son of Roderigo Borgia?

This is another instance of the lightness, the recklessness with which Alexander VI has been
accused of unseemly and illicit conduct, which it may not be amiss to mention at this stage,
since, if not the accusation itself, at least the matter that occasioned it belongs chronologically
here.

During the first months of his reign--following in the footsteps of predecessors who had made
additions to the Vatican--Alexander set about the building of the Borgia Tower. For its decoration
he brought Perugino, Pinturicchio, Volterrano, and Peruzzi to Rome. Concerning Pinturicchio
and Alexander, Vasari tells us, in his Vita degli Artefici, that over the door of one of the
rooms in the Borgia Tower the artist painted a picture of the Virgin Mary in the likeness of
Giulia Farnese (who posed to him as the model) with Alexander kneeling to her in adoration,
arrayed in full pontificals.

Such a thing would have been horrible, revolting, sacrilegious. Fortunately it does not even
amount to a truth untruly told; and well would it be if all the lies against the Borgias were
as easy to refute. True, Pinturicchio did paint Giulia Farnese as the Madonna; true also that
he did paint Alexander kneeling in adoration--but not to the Madonna, not in the same picture
at all. The Madonna for which Giulia Farnese was the model is over a doorway, as Vasari says.
The kneeling Alexander is in another room, and the object of his adoration is the Saviour rising
from His tomb.

Yet one reputable writer after another has repeated that lie of Vasari's, and shocked us by
the scandalous spectacle of a Pope so debauched and lewd that he kneels in pontificals, in
adoration, at the feet of his mistress depicted as the Virgin Mary.

In October of that same year of 1493 Cesare accompanied his father on a visit to Orvieto, a
journey which appears to have been partly undertaken in response to an invitation from Giulia
Farnese's brother Alessandro.

Orvieto was falling at the time into decay and ruin, no longer the prosperous centre it had
been less than a hundred years earlier; but the shrewd eye of Alexander perceived its value
as a stronghold, to be used as an outpost of Rome or as a refuge in time of danger, and he
proceeded to repair and fortify it. In the following summer Cesare was invested with its governorship,
at the request of its inhabitants, who sent an embassy to the Pope with their proposal,--by
way, no doubt, of showing their gratitude for his interest in the town.

But in the meantime, towards the end of 1493, King Ferrante's uneasiness at the ever-swelling
rumours of the impending French invasion was quickened by the fact that the Pope had not yet
sent his son Giuffredo to Naples to marry Donna Sancia, as had been contracted. Ferrante feared
the intrigues of Milan with Alexander, and that the latter might be induced, after all, to
join the northern league. In a frenzy of apprehension, the old king was at last on the point
of going to Milan to throw himself at the feet of Lodovico Sforza, who was now his only hope,
when news reached him that his ambassadors had been ordered to leave France.

That death-blow to his hopes was a death-blow to the man himself. Upon receiving the news he
was smitten by an apoplexy, and upon January 25, 1494, he departed this life without the consolation
of being able to suppose that any of his schemes had done anything to avert the impending ruin
of his house.

In spite of all Alexander's intercessions and representations, calculated to induce Charles
VIII to abandon his descent upon Italy; in spite, no less, of the counsel he received at home
from such far-seeing men as had his ear, the Christian King was now determined upon the expedition
and his preparations were well advanced. In the month of March he assumed the title of King
of Sicily, and sent formal intimation of it to Alexander, demanding his investiture at the
hands of the Pope and offering to pay him a heavy annual tribute. Alexander was thus given
to choose between the wrath of France and the wrath of Naples, and--to put the basest construction
on his motives--he saw that the peril from an enemy on his very frontiers would be more imminent
than that of an enemy beyond the Alps. It is also possible that he chose to be guided by his
sense of justice and to do in the matter what he considered right. By whatever motive he was
prompted, the result was that he refused to accede to the wishes of the Christian King.

The Consistory which received the French ambassador--Peron de Basche--became the scene of stormy
remonstrances, Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere, of course, supporting the ambassador and being
supported in his act of insubordination by the Vice-Chancellor Ascanio Sforza (who represented
his brother Lodovico in the matter) and the Cardinals Sanseverino, Colonna, and Savelli, all
attached to French interests. Peron de Basche so far presumed, no doubt emboldened by this
support, as to threaten the Pope with deposition if he persisted in his refusal to obey the
King of France.

You see once more that kingly attitude, and you shall see it yet again presently and be convinced
of its precise worth. In one hand a bribe of heavy annual tribute, in the other a threat of
deposition; it was thus they conducted their business with the Holy Father. In this instance
his Holiness took the threat, and dismissed the insolent ambassador. Della Rovere, conceiving
that in France he had a stouter ally than in Naples, and seeing that he had once more incurred
the papal anger by his open enmity, fled back to Ostia; and, not feeling safe there, for the
pontifical forces were advancing upon his fortress, took ship to Genoa, and thence to France,
to plot the Pope's ruin with the exasperated Charles; and, the charge of simony being the only
weapon with which they could attack Alexander's seat upon the papal throne, the charge of simony
was once more brandished.

His Holiness took the matter with a becoming and stately calm. He sent his nephew, Giovanni
Borgia, to Naples to crown Alfonso, and with him went Giuffredo Borgia to carry out the marriage
contract with Alfonso's daughter, and thus strengthen the alliance between Rome and Naples.

By the autumn Charles had crossed the Alps with the most formidable army that had ever been
sent out of France, full ninety thousand strong. And so badly was the war conducted by the
Neapolitan generals who were sent to hold him in check that the appearance of the French under
the very walls of Rome was almost such as to take the Pope by surprise. Charles's advance from
the north had been so swift and unhindered that Alexander contemptuously said the French soldiers
had come into Italy with wooden spurs and chalk in their hands to mark their lodgings.

Charles had been well received by the intriguing Lodovico Sforza, with whom he visited the
Castle of Pavia and the unfortunate Gian Galeazzo, who from long confinement, chagrin, and
other causes was now reduced to the sorriest condition. Indeed, on October 22, some days after
that visit, the wretched prince expired. Whether or not Lodovico had him poisoned, as has been
alleged--a charge, which, after all, rests on no proof, nor even upon the word of any person
of reliance--his death most certainly lies at his ambitious uncle's door.

Charles was at Piacenza when the news of Gian Galeazzo's death reached him. Like the good Christian
that he accounted himself, he ordered the most solemn and imposing obsequies for the poor youth
for whom in life he had done nothing.

Gian Galeazzo left a heart-broken girl-widow and two children to succeed him to the throne
he had never been allowed to occupy--the eldest, Francesco Sforza, being a boy of five. Nevertheless,
Lodovico was elected Duke of Milan. Not only did he suborn the Parliament of Milan to that
end, but he induced the Emperor to confirm him in the title. To this the Emperor consented,
seeking to mask the unscrupulous deed by a pitiful sophism. He expounded that the throne of
Milan should originally have been Lodovico's, and never Galeazzo Maria's (Gian Galeazzo's father),
because the latter was born before Francesco Sforza had become Duke of Milan, whereas Lodovico
was born when he already was so.

The obsequies of Gian Galeazzo completed, Charles pushed on. From Florence he issued his manifesto,
and although this confined itself to claiming the kingdom of Naples, and said no word of punishing
the Pope for his disobedience in crowning Alfonso and being now in alliance with him, it stirred
up grave uneasiness at the Vatican.

The Pope's position was becoming extremely difficult; nevertheless, he wore the boldest possible
face when he received the ambassadors of France, and on December 9 refused to grant the letters
patent of passage through the Pontifical States which the French demanded. Thereupon Charles
advanced threateningly upon Rome, and was joined now by those turbulent barons Orsini, Colonna,
and Savelli.

Alexander VI has been widely accused of effecting a volte-face at this stage and betraying
his Neapolitan allies; but his conduct, properly considered, can hardly amount to that. What
concessions he made to France were such as a wise and inadequately supported man must make
to an army ninety thousand strong. To be recklessly and quixotically heroic is not within the
function of Popes; moreover, Alexander had Rome to think of, for Charles had sent word that,
if he were resisted he would leave all in ruins, whereas if a free passage were accorded him
he would do no hurt nor suffer any pillage to be done in Rome.

So the Pope did the only thing consistent with prudence: he made a virtue of necessity and
gave way where it was utterly impossible for him to resist. He permitted Charles the passage
through his territory which Charles was perfectly able to take for himself if refused. There
ensued an interchange of compliments between Pope and King, and early in January Charles entered
Rome in such warlike panoply as struck terror into the hearts of all beholders. Of that entrance
Paolo Giovio has left us an impressive picture.

The vanguard was composed of Swiss and German mercenaries--tall fellows, these professional
warriors, superb in their carriage and stepping in time to the beat of their drums; they were
dressed in variegated, close-fitting garments that revealed all their athletic symmetry. A
fourth of them were armed with long, square-bladed halberts, new to Italy; the remainder trailed
their ten-foot pikes, and carried a short sword at their belts, whilst to every thousand of
them there were a hundred arquebusiers. After them came the French infantry, without armour
save the officers, who wore steel corselets and head-pieces. These, again, were followed by
five thousand Gascon arbalisters, each shouldering his arbalest--a phalanx of short, rude fellows,
not to be compared with the stately Swiss. Next came the cavalry, advancing in squadrons, glittering
and resplendent in their steel casings; 2,500 of these were in full heavy armour, wielding
iron maces and the ponderous lances that were usual also in Italy. Every man-at-arms had with
him three horses, mounted by a squire and two valets (four men going to the lance in France).
Some 5,000 of the cavalry were more lightly armed, in corselets and head-piece only, and they
carried long wooden bows in the English fashion; whilst some were armed with pikes, intended
to complete the work of the heavier cavalry. These were followed by 200 knights--the very flower
of French chivalry for birth and valour--shouldering their heavy iron maces, their armour covered
by purple, gold-embroidered surcoats. Behind them came 400 mounted archers forming the bodyguard
of the king.

The misshapen monarch himself was the very caricature of a man, hideous and grotesque as a
gargoyle. He was short of stature, spindle-shanked, rachitic and malformed, and of his face,
with its colossal nose, loose mouth and shallow brow, Giovio says that "it was the ugliest
ever seen on man."

Such was the person of the young king--he was twenty-four years of age at the time--who poured
his legions into Rome, and all full-armed as if for work of immediate destruction. Seen, as
they were, by torchlight and the blaze of kindled bonfires--for night had fallen long before
the rearguard had entered the city--they looked vague, fantastic, and terrifying. But the most
awe-inspiring sight of all was kept for the end; it consisted of the thirty-six pieces of artillery
which brought up the rear, each piece upon a carriage swiftly drawn by horses, and the longest
measuring eight feet, weighing six thousand pounds, and discharging an iron ball as big as
a man's head.

The king lay in the Palace of San Marco, where a lodging had been prepared for him, and thither
on the day after his entrance came Cesare Borgia, with six Cardinals, from the Castle of Sant'
Angelo, whither the Pope had withdrawn, to wait upon his Christian Majesty. Charles immediately
revealed the full and exigent nature of his demands. He required the Pope's aid and counsel
in the conquest of Naples, upon which he was proceeding; that Cesare Borgia be delivered into
his hands as a hostage to ensure the Pope's friendliness; and that the Castle of Sant' Angelo
be handed over to him to be used as a retreat in case of need or danger. Further, he demanded
that Prince Djem--the brother of Sultan Bajazet, who was in the Pope's hands--should be delivered
up to him as a further hostage.

This Djem (Gem, or Zizim, as his name is variously spelled) was the second son of Mahomet II,
whose throne he had disputed with his brother Bajazet on their father's death. He had raised
an army to enforce his claim, and had not lacked for partisans; but he was defeated and put
to flight by his brother. For safety he had delivered himself up to the Knights of Rhodes,
whom he knew to be Bajazet's implacable enemies. They made him very welcome, for d'Aubusson,
the Grand Master of Rhodes, realized that the possession of the prince's person was a very
fortunate circumstance for Christianity, since by means of such a hostage the Turk could be
kept in submission. Accordingly d'Aubusson had sent him to France, and wrote: "While Djem lives,
and is in our hands, Bajazet will never dare to make war upon Christians, who will thus enjoy
great peace. Thus is it salutary that Djem should remain in our power." And in France Djem
had been well received and treated with every consideration due to a person of his princely rank.

But he appears to have become a subject of contention among the Powers, several of which urged
that he could be of greater service to Christianity in their hands than in those of France.
Thus, the King of Hungary had demanded him because, being a neighbour of Bajazet's, he was
constantly in apprehension of Turkish raids. Ferdinand of Spain had desired him because the
possession of him would assist the Catholic King in the expulsion of the Moors. Ferrante of
Naples had craved him because he lived in perpetual terror of a Turkish invasion.

In the end he had been sent to Rome, whither he went willingly under the advice of the Knights
of Rhodes, whose prisoner he really considered himself. They had discovered that Bajazet was
offering enormous bribes to Charles for the surrender of him, and they feared lest Charles
should succumb to the temptation.

So Prince Djem had come to Rome in the reign of Pope Innocent VIII, and there he had since
remained, Sultan Bajazet making the Pope an annual allowance of forty thousand ducats for his
brother's safe custody. He was a willing prisoner, or rather a willing exile, for, far from
being kept a prisoner, he was treated at Rome with every consideration, associating freely
with those about the Pontifical Court, and being frequently seen abroad in company with the
Pope and the Duke of Gandia.

Now Charles was aware that the Pope, in his dread of a French invasion, and seeing vain all
his efforts to dissuade Charles from making his descent upon Italy, had appealed for aid to
Bajazet. For so doing he has been severely censured, and with some justice, for the picture
of the Head of Christianity making appeal to the infidel to assist him against Christians is
not an edifying one. Still, it receives some measure of justification when we reflect what
was the attitude of these same Christians towards their Head.

Bajazet himself, thrown into a panic at the thought of Djem falling into the hands of a king
who proposed to make a raid upon him, answered the Pope begging his Holiness to "have Djem
removed from the tribulations of this world, and his soul transported to another, where he
might enjoy a greater peace." For this service he offered the Pope 300,000 ducats, to be paid
on delivery of the prince's body; and, if the price was high, so was the service required,
for it would have ensured Bajazet a peace of mind he could not hope to enjoy while his brother
lived.

This letter was intercepted by Giovanni della Rovere, the Prefect of Sinigaglia, who very promptly
handed it to his brother, the Cardinal Giuliano. The cardinal, in his turn, laid it before
the King of France, who now demanded of the Pope the surrender of the person of this Djem as
a further hostage.

Alexander began by rejecting the king's proposals severally and collectively, but Charles pressed
him to reconsider his refusal, and so, being again between the sword and the wall, the Pope
was compelled to submit. A treaty was drawn up and signed on January 15, the king, on his side,
promising to recognize the Pope and to uphold him in all his rights.

On the following day Charles made solemn act of veneration to the Pontiff in Consistory, kissing
his ring and his foot, and professing obedience to him as the kings of France, his forbears,
had ever done. Words for deeds!

Charles remained twelve days longer in Rome, and set out at last, on January 28, upon the conquest
of Naples. First he went solemnly to take his leave of the Pope, and they parted with every
outward mark of a mutual esteem which they most certainly cannot have experienced. When Charles
knelt for the Pope's blessing, Alexander raised him up and embraced him; whilst Cesare completed
the show of friendliness by presenting Charles with six beautiful chargers.

They set out immediately afterwards, the French king taking with him his hostages, neither
of which he was destined to retain for long, with Cesare riding in the place of honour on his
right.

The army lay at Marino that night, and on the following at Velletri. In the latter city Charles
was met by an ambassador of Spain--Antonio da Fonseca. Ferdinand and Isabella were moved at
last to befriend their cousins of Naples, whom all else had now abandoned, and at the same
time serve their own interests. Their ambassador demanded that Charles should abandon his enterprise
and return to France, or else be prepared for war with Spain.

It is eminently probable that Cesare had knowledge of this ultimatum to Charles, and that his
knowledge influenced his conduct. However that may be, he slipped out of Velletri in the dead
of that same night disguised as a groom. Half a mile out of the town, Francesco del Sacco,
an officer of the Podestá of Velletri, awaited him with a horse, and on this he sped back to
Rome, where he arrived on the night of the 30th. He went straight to the house of one Antonio
Flores, an auditor of the Tribunal of the Ruota and a person of his confidence, who through
his influence and protection was destined to rise to the eminence of the archbishopric of Avignon
and Papal Nuncio to the Court of France.

Cesare remained at Flores's house, sending word to the Pope of his presence, but not attempting
to approach the Vatican. On the following day he withdrew to the stronghold of Spoleto.

Meanwhile Rome was thrown into a panic by the young cardinal's action and the dread of reprisals
on the part of France. The quaking municipality sent representatives to Charles to assure him
that Rome had had nothing to do with this breach of the treaty, and to implore him not to visit
it upon the city. The king replied by a special embassy to the Pope, and there apparently dropped
the matter, for a few days later Cesare reappeared at the Vatican.

Charles, meanwhile, despite the threats of Spain, pushed on to accomplish his easy conquest.

King Alfonso had already fled the kingdom (January 25), abdicating in favour of his brother
Federigo. His avowed object was to withdraw to Sicily, retire from the world, and do penance
for his sins, for which no doubt there was ample occasion. The real spur was probably--as opined
by Commines--cowardice; for, says that Frenchman, "Jamais homme cruel ne fut hardi."

Federigo's defence of the realm consigned to him was not conspicuous, for the French entered
Naples almost without striking a blow within twenty days of their departure from Rome.

Scarcely had Charles laid aside his armour when death robbed him of the second hostage he had
brought from the Vatican. On February 25, after a week's illness, Prince Djem died of dysentery
at the Castle of Capua, whither Charles had sent him.

Rumours that he had been poisoned by the Pope arose almost at once; but, considering that twenty­eight
days had elapsed since his parting from Alexander, it was, with the best intentions in the
world, rather difficult to make that poisoning credible, until the bright notion was conceived,
and made public, that the poison used was a "white powder" of unknown components, which did
its work slowly, and killed the victim some time after it had been administered. Thus, by a
bold and brazen invention, an impossible falsehood was made to wear a possible aspect.

And in that you have most probably the origin of the famous secret poison of the Borgias. Having
been invented to fit the alleged poisoning of Prince Djem, which it was desired to fasten upon
the Pope by hook or by crook, it was found altogether too valuable an invention not to be used
again. By means of it, it became possible to lay almost any death in the world at the door
of Alexander.

Before proceeding to inquire further into this particular case, let us here and now say that,
just as to-day there is no inorganic toxin known to science that will either lie fallow for
weeks in the human system, suddenly to become active and slay, or yet to kill by slow degrees
involving some weeks in the process, so none was known in the Borgian or any other era. Science
indeed will tell you that the very notion of any such poison is flagrantly absurd, and that
such a toxic action is against all the laws of nature.

But a scientific disquisition is unnecessary. For our present needs arguments of common sense
should abundantly suffice. This poison--this white powder--was said to be a secret of the Borgias.
If that is so, by what Borgia was the secret of its existence ever divulged? Or, if it never
was divulged, how comes it to be known that a poison so secret, and working at such distances
of time, was ever wielded by them?

The very nature of its alleged action was such as utterly to conceal the hand that had administered
it; yet here, on the first recorded occasion of its alleged use, it was more or less common
knowledge if Giovio and Guicciardini are to be believed!

Sagredo(1) says that Djem died at Terracina three days after having been consigned to Charles
VIII, of poison administered by Alexander, to whom Bajazet had promised a large sum of money
for the deed. The same is practically Giovio's statement, save that Giovio causes him to die
at a later date and at Gaeta; Guicciardini and Corio tell a similar story, but inform us that
he died in Naples.

  1  In Mem. Storiche dei Monarchi Ottomani.

It is entirely upon the authority of these four writers that the Pope is charged with having
poisoned Djem, and it is noteworthy that in the four narratives we find different dates and
three different places given as the date and place of the Turk's death, and more noteworthy
still that in not one instance of these four is date or place correctly stated.

Now the place where Djem died, and the date of his death, were public facts about which there
was no mystery; they were to be ascertained--as they are still--by any painstaking examiner.
His poisoning, on the other hand, was admittedly a secret matter, the truth of which it was
impossible to ascertain with utter and complete finality. Yet of this poisoning they know all
the secrets, these four nimble writers who cannot correctly tell us where or when the man died!

We will turn from the fictions they have left us--which, alas! have but too often been preferred
by subsequent writers to the true facts which lay just as ready to their hands, but of course
were less sensational--and we will consider instead the evidence of those contemporaries who
do, at least, know the time and place of Djem's decease.

If any living man might have known of a secret poison of the Borgias at this stage, that man
was Burchard the Caeremoniarius, and, had he known of it, not for a moment would he have been
silent on the point. Yet not a word of this secret poison shall you find in his diaries, and
concerning the death of Djem he records that "on February 25 died at the Castle of Capua the
said Djem, through meat or drink that disagreed with him."

Panvinio, who, being a Neapolitan, was not likely to be any too friendly to the Pope--as, indeed,
he proves again and again--tells us positively that Djem died of dysentry at Capua.(1)

  1  Vitis Pontif. Rom.

Sanuto, writing to the Council of Ten, says that Djem took ill at Capua of a catarrh, which
"descended to his stomach"; and that so he died.

And now mark Sanuto's reasoning upon his death, which is the very reasoning we should ourselves
employ finally to dispose of this chatter of poisoning, did we not find it awaiting quotation,
more authoritative therefore than it could be from us, and utterly irrefutable and conclusive
in its logic. "This death is very harmful to the King of France, to all Italy, and chiefly
to the Pope, who is thereby deprived of 40,000 ducats yearly, which was paid him by his [Djem's]
brother for his custody. And the king showed himself greatly grieved by this death, and it
was suspected that the Pope had poisoned him, which, however, was not to be believed, as it
would have been to his own loss."

Just so--to his own infinite loss, not only of the 40,000 ducats yearly, but of the hold which
the custody of Djem gave him upon the Turks.

The reason assigned by those who charged Alexander with this crime was the bribe of 300,000
ducats offered by Bajezet in the intercepted letter. The offer--which, incidentally, had never
reached the Pope--was instantly taken as proof of its acceptance--a singular case of making
cause follow upon effect, a method all too prevalent with the Borgian chroniclers. Moreover,
they entirely overlooked the circumstance that, for Djem's death in the hands of France, the
Pope could make no claim upon Bajazet.

Finally--though the danger be incurred of becoming tedious upon this point--they also forgot
that, years before, Bajazet had offered such bribes to Charles for the life of Djem as had
caused the Knights of Rhodes to remove the Turk from French keeping. Upon that circumstance
they might, had it sorted with their inclinations, have set up a stronger case of poisoning
against Charles than against the Pope, and they would not have been put to the necessity of
inventing a toxin that never had place in any earthly pharmacopoeia.

It is not, by this, suggested that there is any shadow of a case against Charles. Djem died
a perfectly natural death, as is established by the only authorities competent to speak upon
the matter, and his death was against the interests of everybody save his brother Bajazet;
and against nobody's so much as the Pope's.

CHAPTER II. THE POPE AND THE SUPERNATURAL

By the middle of March of that year 1495 the conquest of Naples was a thoroughly accomplished
fact, and the French rested upon their victory, took their ease, and made merry in the capital
of the vanquished kingdom.

But in the north Lodovico Sforza-now Duke of Milan de facto, as we have seen--set about the
second part of the game that was to be played. He had a valuable ally in Venice, which looked
none too favourably on the French and was fully disposed to gather its forces against the common
foe. The Council of Ten sent their ambassador, Zorzi, to the Pope to propose an alliance.

News reached Charles in Naples of the league that was being formed. He laughed at it, and the
matter was made the subject of ridicule in some of the comedies that were being performed for
the amusement of his Court. Meanwhile, the intrigue against him went forward; on March 26 his
Holiness sent the Golden Rose to the Doge, and on Palm Sunday the league was solemnly proclaimed
in St. Peter's. Its terms were vague; there was nothing in it that was directly menacing to
Charles; it was simply declared to have been formed for the common good. But in the north the
forces were steadily gathering to cut off the retreat of the French, and suddenly Lodovico
Sforza threw aside the mask and made an attack upon the French navy at Genoa.

At last Charles awoke to his danger and began to care for his safety. Rapidly he organized
the occupation of Naples, and, leaving Montpensier as Viceroy and d'Aubigny as Captain-General,
he set out for Rome with his army, intent upon detaching the Pope from the league; for the
Pope, being the immediate neighbour of Naples, would be as dangerous as an enemy as he was
valuable as an ally to Charles.

He entered Rome on June 1. The Pope, however, was not there to receive him. Alexander had left
on May 28 for Orvieto, accompanied by Cesare, the Sacred College, 200 men-at-arms, and 1,000
horse and 3,000 foot, supplied by Venice. At Orvieto, on June 3, the Pontiff received an ambassador
from the Emperor, who had joined the league, and on the 4th he refused audience to the ambassador
of France, sent to him from Ronciglione, where the King had halted. Charles, insistent, sent
again, determined to see the Pope; but Alexander, quite as determined not to see the king,
pushed on to Perugia with his escort.

There his Holiness abode until the French and Italians had met on the River Taro and joined
battle at Fornovo, of which encounter both sides claimed the victory. If Charles's only object
was to win through, then the victory undoubtedly was his, for he certainly succeeded in cutting
a way through the Italians who disputed his passage. But he suffered heavily, and left behind
him most of his precious artillery, his tents and carriages, and the immense Neapolitan booty
he was taking home, with which he had loaded (says Gregorovius) twenty thousand mules. All
this fell into the hands of the Italian allies under Gonzaga of Mantua, whilst from Fornovo
Charles's retreat was more in the nature of a flight. Thus he won back to France, no whit the
better for his expedition, and the only mark of his passage which he left behind him was an
obscene ailment, which, with the coming of the French into Italy, first manifested itself in
Europe, and which the Italians paid them the questionable compliment of calling "the French
disease"--morbo gallico, or il mal francese.

During the Pope's visit to Perugia an incident occurred which is not without importance to
students of his character, and of the character left of him by his contemporaries and others.

There lived in Perugia at this time a young nun of the Order of St. Dominic, who walked in
the way of St. Catherine of Siena, Colomba da Rieti by name. You will find some marvellous
things about her in the Perugian chronicles of Matarazzo, which, for that matter, abound in
marvellous things--too marvellous mostly to be true.

When he deals with events happening beyond the walls of his native town Matarazzo, as an historian,
is contemptible to a degree second only to that of those who quote him as an authority. When
he deals with matters that, so to speak, befell under his very eyes, he is worthy, if not of
credit at least of attention, for his "atmosphere" is valuable.

Of this Sister Colomba Matarazzo tells us that she ate not nor drank, save sometimes some jujube
fruit, and even these but rarely. "On the day of her coming to Perugia (which happened in 1488),
as she was Crossing the Bridge of St. Gianni some young men attempted to lay hands upon her,
for she was comely and beautiful; but as they did so, she showed them the jujube fruit which
she carried in a white cloth, whereupon they instantly stood bereft of strength and wits."

Next he tells us how she would pass from life for an hour or two, and sometimes for half a
day, and her pulse would cease to beat, and she would, seem all dead. And then she would quiver
and come to herself again, and prophesy the future, and threaten disaster. And again: "One
morning two of her teeth were found to have fallen out, which had happened in fighting with
the devil; and, for the many intercessions which she made, and the scandals which she repaired
by her prayers, the people came to call her saint."

Notwithstanding all this, and the fact that she lived without nourishment, he tells us that
the brothers of St. Francis had little faith in her. Nevertheless, the community built her
a very fine monastery, which was richly endowed, and many nuns took the habit of her Order.

Now it happened that whilst at Perugia in his student days, Cesare had witnessed a miracle
performed by this poor ecstatic girl; or rather he had arrived on the scene--the Church of
St. Catherine of Siena--to find her, with a little naked boy in her lap, the centre of an excited,
frenzied crowd, which was proclaiming loudly that the child had been dead and that she had
resurrected him. This was a statement which the Prior of the Dominicans did not seem disposed
unreservedly to accept, for, when approached with a suggestion that the bells should be rung
in honour of the event, he would not admit that he saw any cause to sanction such a course.

In the few years that were sped since then, however, sister Colomba had acquired the great
reputation of which Matarazzo tells us, so that, throughout the plain of Tiber, the Dominicans
were preaching her fame from convent to convent. In December of 1495 Charles VIII heard of
her at Siena, and was stirred by a curiosity which he accounted devotional--the same curiosity
that caused one of his gentlemen to entreat Savonarola to perform "just a little miracle" for
the King's entertainment. You can picture the gloomy fanatic's reception of that invitation.

The Pope now took the opportunity of his sojourn in Perugia to pay Colomba da Rieti a visit,
and there can be no doubt that he did so in a critical spirit. Accompanied by Cesare and some
cardinals and gentlemen of his following, he went to the Church of St. Dominic and was conducted
to the sister's cell by the Prior--the same who in Cesare's student-days had refused to have
the bells rung.

Upon seeing the magnificent figure of the Pontiff filling the doorway of her little chamber,
Sister Colomba fell at his feet, and, taking hold of the hem of his gown, she remained prostrate
and silent for some moments, when at last she timidly arose. Alexander set her some questions
concerning the Divine Mysteries. These she answered readily at first, but, as his questions
grew, she faltered, became embarrassed, and fell silent, standing before him white and trembling,
no doubt a very piteous figure. The Pope, not liking this, turned to the Prior to demand an
explanation, and admonished him sternly: "Caveto, Pater, quia ego Papa sum!"

This had the effect of throwing the Prior into confusion, and he set himself to explain that
she was in reality very wonderful, that he himself had not at first believed in her, but that
he had seen so much that he had been converted. At this stage Cesare came to his aid, bearing
witness, as he could, that he himself had seen the Prior discredit her when others were already
hailing her as a saint, wherefore, if he now was convinced, he must have had very good evidence
to convince him. We can imagine the Prior's gratitude to the young cardinal for that timely
word when he saw himself in danger perhaps of being called to account for fostering and abetting
an imposture.

What was Alexander's opinion of her in the end we do not know; but we do know that he was not
readily credulous. When, for instance, he heard that the stigmata were alleged to have appeared
upon the body of Lucia di Narni he did what might be expected of a sceptic of our own times
rather than of a churchman of his superstitious age--he sent his physicians to examine her.

That is but one instance of his common-sense attitude towards supernatural manifestations.
His cold, calm judgement caused him to seek, by all available and practical means, to discriminate
between the true and the spurious in an age in which men, by their credulity, were but too
ready to become the prey of any impostor. It argues a breadth of mind altogether beyond the
times in which he had his being. Witches and warlocks, who elsewhere--and even in much later
ages, and in Protestant as well as Catholic States--were given to the fire, he contemptuously
ignored. The unfortunate Moors and Jews, who elsewhere in Europe were being persecuted by the
Holy Inquisition and burnt at the stake as an act of faith for the good of their souls and
the greater honour and glory of God, found in Alexander a tolerant protector and in Rome a
safe shelter.

These circumstances concerning him are not sufficiently known; it is good to know them for
their own sake. But, apart from that, they have a great historical value which it is well to
consider. It is not to be imagined that such breadth of views could be tolerated in a Pope
in the dawn of the sixteenth century. The times were not ripe for it; men did not understand
it; and what men do not understand they thirst to explain, and have a way of explaining in
their own fashion and according to their own lights.

A Pope who did such things could not be a good Pope, since such things must be abhorrent to
God--as men conceived God then.

To understand this is to understand much of the bad feeling against Alexander and his family,
for this is the source of much of it. Because he did not burn witches and magicians it was
presently said that he was himself a warlock, and that he practised black magic. It was not,
perhaps, wanton calumny; it was said in good faith, for it was the only reason the times could
think of that should account for his restraint. Because he tolerated Moors and Jews it was
presently said by some that he was a Moor, by others that he was a Jew, and by others still
that he was both.

What wonder, then, if the rancorous Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere venomously dubbed him Moor
and Jew, and the rabid fanatic Savonarola screamed that he was no Pope at all, that he was
not a Christian, nor did he believe in any God?

Misunderstood in these matters, he was believed to be an infidel, and no crime was too impossible
to be fastened upon the man who was believed to be that in the Italy of the Cinquecento.

Alexander, however, was very far from being an infidel, very far from not being a Christian,
very far from not believing in God, as he has left abundant evidence in the Bulls he issued
during his pontificate. It is certainly wrong to assume--and this is pointed out by l'Espinois--that
a private life which seems to ignore the commandments of the Church must preclude the possibility
of a public life devoted to the service of the Church. This is far from being the case. Such
a state of things--such a dual personality--is by no means inconsistent with churchmen of the
fifteenth, or, for that matter, of the twentieth century.

The whole truth of the matter is contained in a Portuguese rhyme, which may roughly be translated:

     Soundly Father Thomas preaches.
     Don't do as he does; do as he teaches.

A debauchee may preach virtue with salutary effect, just as a man may preach hygiene without
practising the privations which it entails, or may save you from dyspepsia by pointing out
to you what is indigestible without himself abstaining from it.

Such was the case of Alexander VI, as we are justified in concluding from the evidence that
remains.

Let us consider the apostolic zeal revealed by his Bull granting America to Spain. This was
practically conceded--as the very terms of it will show--on condition that Spain should employ
the dominion accorded her over the New World for the purpose of propagating the Christian faith
and the conversion and baptism of the heathen. This is strictly enjoined, and emphasized by
the command that Spain shall send out God-fearing men who are learned in religion and capable
of teaching it to the people of the newly discovered lands.

Thus Alexander invented the missionary.

To King Manuel the Fortunate (of Portugal), who sought his authority for the conquest of Africa,
he similarly enjoined that he should contrive that the name of the Saviour be adored there,
and the Catholic faith spread and honoured, to the end that the king "might win eternal life
and the blessing of the Holy See."

To the soldiers going upon this expedition his Holiness granted the same indulgences as to
those who fought in the Holy Land, and he aided the kings of Spain and Portugal in this propagation
of Christianity out of the coffers of the Church.

He sent to America a dozen of the children of St. Francis, as apostles to preach the Faith,
and he invested them with the amplest powers.

He prosecuted with stern rigour the heretics of Bohemia, who were obscenely insulting Church
and Sacraments, and he proceeded similarly against the "Picards" and "Vaudois." Against the
Lombard demoniacs, who had grown bold, were banding themselves together and doing great evil
to property, to life, and to religion, Alexander raised his mighty arm.

Then there is his Bull of June 1, 1501, against those who already were turning to evil purposes
the newly discovered printing-press. In this he inveighed against the printing of matter prejudicial
to healthy doctrine, to good manners, and, above all, to the Catholic Faith or anything that
should give scandal to the faithful. He threatened the printers of impious works with excommunication
should they persist, and enlisted secular weapons to punish them in a temporal as well as a
spiritual manner. He ordered the preparation of indexes of all works containing anything hurtful
to religion, and pronounced a ban of excommunication against all who should peruse the books
so indexed.

Thus Alexander invented the Index Expurgatorius.

There is abundant evidence that he was a fervid celebrant, and of his extreme devotion to the
Blessed Virgin--in whose honour he revived the ringing of the Angelus Bell--shall be considered
later.

Whatever his private life, it is idle to seek to show that his public career was other than
devoted to the upholding of the dignity and honour of the Church.

CHAPTER III. THE ROMAN BARONS

Having driven Charles VIII out of Italy, it still remained for the allies to remove all traces
of his passage from Naples and to restore the rule of the House of Aragon. In this they had
the aid of Ferdinand and Isabella, who sent an army under the command of that distinguished
soldier Gonzalo de Cordoba, known in his day as the Great Captain.

He landed in Calabria in the spring of 1496, and war broke out afresh through that already
sorely devastated land. The Spaniards were joined by the allied forces of Venice and the Church
under the condotta of the Marquis Gonzaga of Mantua, the leader of the Italians at Fornovo.

Lodovico had detached himself from the league, and again made terms with France for his own
safety's sake. But his cousin, Giovanni Sforza, Tyrant of Pesaro--the husband of Lucrezia Borgia--continued
in the pontifical army at the head of a condotta of 600 lances. Another command in the same
ranks was one of 700 lances under the youthful Giuffredo Borgia, now Prince of Squillace and
the husband of Doña Sancia of Aragon, a lady of exceedingly loose morals, who had brought to
Rome the habits acquired in the most licentious Court of that licentious age.

The French lost Naples even more easily than they had conquered it, and by July 7 Ferdinand
II was able to reenter his capital and reascend his throne. D'Aubigny, the French general,
withdrew to France, whilst Montpensier, the Viceroy, retired to Pozzuoli, where he died in
the following year.

Nothing could better have suited the purposes of Alexander than the state of things which now
prevailed, affording him, as it did, the means to break the power of the insolent Roman barons,
who already had so vexed and troubled him. So in the Consistory of June 1 he published a Bull
whereby Gentile Virginio Orsini, Giangiordano Orsini, and his bastard Paolo Orsini and Bartolomeo
d'Alviano, were declared outlawed for having borne arms with France against the Church, and
their possessions were confiscated to the State. This decree was to be enforced by the sword,
and, for the purposes of the impending war, the Duke of Gandia was recalled to Rome. He arrived
early in August, having left at Gandia his wife Maria Enriquez, a niece of the Royal House
of Spain. It was Cesare Borgia who took the initiative in the pomp with which his brother was
received in Rome, riding out at the head of the entire Pontifical Court to meet and welcome
the young duke.

In addition to being Duke of Gandia, Giovanni Borgia was already Duke of Sessa and Prince of
Teano, which further dignities had been conferred upon him on the occasion of his brother Giuffredo's
marriage to Donna Sancia. To these the Pope now added the governorship of Viterbo and of the
Patrimony of St. Peter, dispossessing Cardinal Farnese of the latter office to bestow it upon
this well-beloved son.

In Venice it was being related, a few months later,--in October--that Gandia had brought a
woman from Spain for his father, and that the latter had taken her to live with him. The story
is given in Sanuto, and of course has been unearthed and served up by most historians and essayists.
It cannot positively be said that it is untrue; but it can be said that it is unconfirmed.
There is, for instance, no word of it in Burchard's Diarium, and when you consider how ready
a chronicler of scandalous matter was this Master of Ceremonies, you will no doubt conclude
that, if any foundation there had been for that Venetian story, Burchard would never have been
silent on the subject.

The Pope had taken into his pay that distinguished condottiero, Duke Guidobaldo of Urbino,
who later was to feel the relentless might of Cesare. To Guidobaldo's command was now entrusted
the punitive expedition against the Orsini, and with him was to go the Duke of Gandia, ostensibly
to share the leadership, in reality that, under so able a master, he might serve his apprenticeship
to the trade of arms. So on October 25 Giovanni Borgia was very solemnly created Gonfalonier
of the Church and Captain-General of the pontifical troops. On the same day the three standards
were blessed in St. Peter's--one being the Papal Gonfalon bearing the arms of the Church and
the other two the personal banners of Guidobaldo and Gandia. The two condottieri attended the
ceremony, arrayed in full armour, and received the white truncheons that were the emblems of
their command.

On the following day the army set out, accompanied by the Cardinal de Luna as papal legate
a latere, and within a month ten Orsini strongholds had surrendered.

So far all had been easy for the papal forces; but now the Orsini rallied in the last three
fortresses that remained them--Bracciano, Trevignano, and Anguillara, and their resistance
suddenly acquired a stubborn character, particularly that of Bracciano, which was captained
by Bartolomeo d'Alviano, a clever, resourceful young soldier who was destined to go far. Thus
the campaign, so easily conducted at the outset, received a check which caused it to drag on
into the winter. And now the barons received further reinforcements. Vitellozzo Vitelli, the
Tyrant of Città di Castello, came to the aid of the Orsini, as did also the turbulent Baglioni
of Perugia, the della Rovere in Rome, and all those who were inimical to Alexander VI. On the
other hand, however, the barons Colonna and Savelli ranged themselves on the side of the Pope.

Already Trevignano had fallen, and the attack of the pontifical army was concentrated upon
Bracciano. Hard pressed, and with all supplies cut off, Bartolomeo d'Alviano was driven to
the very verge of surrender, when over the hills came Carlo Orsini, with the men of Vitellozzo
Vitelli, to take the papal forces by surprise and put them to utter rout. Guidobaldo was made
prisoner, whilst the Duke of Gandia, Fabrizio Colonna, and the papal legate narrowly escaped,
and took shelter in Ronciglione, the Pope's son being slightly wounded in the face.

It was a severe and sudden conclusion to a war that had begun under such excellent auspices
for the Pontificals. Yet, notwithstanding that defeat, which had left guns and baggage in the
hands of the enemy, the Pope was the gainer by the campaign, having won eleven strongholds
from the Orsini in exchange for one battle lost.

The barons now prepared to push home their advantage and complete the victory; but the Pope
checkmated them by an appeal to Gonzalo de Cordoba, who promptly responded and came with Prospero
Colonna to the aid of the Church. He laid siege to Ostia, which was being held for the Cardinal
della Rovere, and compelled it to a speedy surrender, thereby bringing the Orsini resistance
practically to an end. For the present the might of the barons was broken, and they were forced
to pay Alexander the sum of 50,000 ducats to redeem their captured fortresses.

Gonzalo de Cordoba made a triumphal entry into Rome, bringing with him Monaldo da Guerra, the
unfortunate defender of Ostia, in chains. He was received with great honour by the Duke of
Gandia, accompanied by his brother-in-law, Giovanni Sforza, and they escorted him to the Vatican,
where the Pope awaited him.

This was but one of the many occasions just then on which Giovanni Sforza was conspicuous in
public in close association with his father-in-law, the Pope. Burchard mentions his presence
at the blessing of the candles on the Feast of the Purification, and shows him to us as a candle-bearer
standing on the Pope's right hand. Again we see him on Palm Sunday in attendance upon Alexander,
he and Gandia standing together on the steps of the pontifical throne in the Sixtine Chapel
during the Blessing of the Palms. There and elsewhere Lucrezia's husband is prominently in
the public eye during those months of February and March of 1497, and we generally see him
sharing, with the Duke of Gandia, the honour of close attendance upon the Pontiff, all of which
but serves to render the more marked his sudden disappearance from that scene.

The matter of his abrupt and precipitate flight from Rome is one concerning which it is unlikely
that the true and complete facts will ever be revealed. It was public gossip at this time that
his marriage with Lucrezia was not a happy one, and that discord marred their life together.
Lucrezia's reported grievance upon this subject reads a little vaguely to us now, whatever
it may have conveyed at the time. She complained that Giovanni "did not fittingly keep her
company,"(1) which may be taken to mean that a good harmony did not prevail between them, or,
almost equally well, that there were the canonical grounds for complaint against him as a husband
which were afterwards formally preferred and made the grounds for the divorce. It is also possible
that Alexander's ambition may have urged him to dissolve the marriage to the end that she might
be free to be used again as a pawn in his far-reaching game.

  1  "Che non gli faceva buona compagnia."

All that we do know positively is that, one evening in Holy Week, Sforza mounted a Turkish
horse, and, on the pretext of going as far as the Church of Sant' Onofrio to take the air,
he slipped out of Rome, and so desperately did he ride that, twenty-four hours later, he was
home in Pesaro, his horse dropping dead as he reached the town.

Certainly some terrible panic must have urged him, and this rather lends colour to the story
told by Almerici in the Memorie di Pesaro. According to this, the Lord of Pesaro's chamberlain,
Giacomino, was in Lucrezia's apartments one evening when Cesare was announced, whereupon, by
Lucrezia's orders, Giacomino concealed himself behind a screen. The Cardinal of Valencia entered
and talked freely with his sister, the essence of his conversation being that the order had
been issued for her husband's death.

The inference to be drawn from this is that Giovanni had been given to choose in the matter
of a divorce, and that he had refused to be a party to it, whence it was resolved to remove
him in a still more effective manner.

Be that as it may, the chroniclers of Pesaro proceed to relate that, after Cesare had left
her, Lucrezia asked Giacomino if he had heard what had been said, and, upon being answered
in the affirmative, urged him to go at once and warn Giovanni. It was as a consequence of this
alleged warning that Giovanni made his precipitate departure.

A little while later, at the beginning of June, Lucrezia left the Vatican and withdrew to the
Convent of San Sisto, in the Appian Way, a step which immediately gave rise to speculation
and to unbridled gossip, all of which, however, is too vague to be worthy of the least attention.
Aretino's advices to the Cardinal Ippolito d'Este suggest that she did not leave the Vatican
on good terms with her family, and it is very possible, if what the Pesaro chroniclers state
is true, that her withdrawal arose out of her having warned Giovanni of his danger and enabled
him to escape.

At about the same time that Lucrezia withdrew to her convent her brother Gandia was the recipient
of further honours at the hands of his fond father. The Pope had raised the fief of Benevento
to a dukedom, and as a dukedom conferred it upon his son, to him and to his legitimate heirs
for ever. To this he added the valuable lordships of Terracina and Pontecorvo.

Cesare, meanwhile, had by no means been forgotten, and already this young cardinal was--with
perhaps the sole exception of the Cardinal d'Estouteville--the richest churchman in Christendom.
To his many other offices and benefices it was being proposed to add that of Chamberlain of
the Holy See, Cardinal Riario, who held the office, being grievously ill and his recovery despaired
of. Together with that office it was the Pope's avowed intention to bestow upon Cesare the
palace of the late Cardinal of Mantua, and with it, no doubt, he would receive a proportion
of the dead cardinal's benefices.

Cesare was twenty-two years of age at the time; tall, of an athletic slenderness, and exceedingly
graceful in his movements, he was acknowledged to be the handsomest man of his age. His face
was long and pale, his brow lofty, his nose delicately aquiline. He had long auburn hair, and
his hazel eyes, large, quick in their movements, and singularly searching in their glance,
were alive with the genius of the soul behind them. He inherited from his father the stupendous
health and vigour for which Alexander had been remarkable in his youth, and was remarkable
still in his old age. The chase had ever been Cesare's favourite pastime, and the wild boar
his predilect quarry; and in the pursuit of it he had made good use of his exceptional physical
endowments, cultivating them until--like his father before him--he was equal to the endurance
of almost any degree of fatigue.

In the Consistory of June 8 he was appointed legate a latere to go to Naples to crown King
Federigo of Aragon--for in the meanwhile another change had taken place on the Neapolitan throne
by the death of young Ferdinand II, who had been succeeded by his uncle, Federigo, Prince of
Altamura.

Cesare made ready for his departure upon this important mission, upon which he was to be accompanied
by his brother Giovanni, Duke of Gandia. They were both to be back in Rome by September, when
Gandia was to return to Spain, taking with him his sister Lucrezia.

Thus had the Pope disposed; but the Borgia family stood on the eve of the darkest tragedy associated
with its name, a tragedy which was to alter all these plans.

CHAPTER IV. THE MURDER OF THE DUKE OF GANDIA

On June 14, 1497, the eve of Cesare and Giovanni Borgia's departure for Naples, their mother
Vannozza gave them a farewell supper in her beautiful vineyard in Trastevere. In addition to
the two guests of honour several other kinsmen and friends were present, among whom were the
Cardinal of Monreale and young Giuffredo Borgia. They remained at supper until an advanced
hour of the night, when Cesare and Giovanni took their departure, attended only by a few servants
and a mysterious man in a mask, who had come to Giovanni whilst he was at table, and who almost
every day for about a month had been in the habit of visiting him at the Vatican.

The brothers and these attendants rode together into Rome and as far as the Vice-Chancellor
Ascanio Sforza's palace in the Ponte Quarter. Here Giovanni drew rein, and informed Cesare
that he would not be returning to the Vatican just yet, as he was first "going elsewhere to
amuse himself." With that he took his leave of Cesare, and, with one single exception--in addition
to the man in the mask--dismissed his servants. The latter continued their homeward way with
the cardinal, whilst the Duke, taking the man in the mask upon the crupper of his horse and
followed his single attendant, turned and made off in the direction of the Jewish quarter.

In the morning it was found that Giovanni had not yet returned, and his uneasy servants informed
the Pope of his absence and of the circumstances of it. The Pope, however, was not at all alarmed.
Explaining his son's absence in the manner so obviously suggested by Giovanni's parting words
to Cesare on the previous night, he assumed that the gay young Duke was on a visit to some
complacent lady and that presently he would return.

Later in the day, however, news was brought that his horse had been found loose in the streets,
in the neighbourhood of the Cardinal of Parma's palace, with only one stirrup-leather, the
other having clearly been cut from the saddle, and, at the same time, it was related that the
servant who had accompanied him after he had separated from the rest had been found at dawn
in the Piazza della Giudecca mortally wounded and beyond speech, expiring soon after his removal
to a neighbouring house.

Alarm spread through the Vatican, and the anxious Pope ordered inquiries to be made in every
quarter where it was possible that anything might be learned. It was in answer to these inquiries
that a boatman of the Schiavoni--one Giorgio by name--came forward with the story of what he
had seen on the night of Wednesday. He had passed the night on board his boat, on guard over
the timber with which she was laden. She was moored along the bank that runs from the Bridge
of Sant' Angelo to the Church of Santa Maria Nuova.

He related that at about the fifth hour of the night, just before daybreak, he had seen two
men emerge from the narrow street alongside the Hospital of San Girolamo, and stand on the
river's brink at the spot where it was usual for the scavengers to discharge their refuse carts
into the water. These men had looked carefully about, as if to make sure that they were not
being observed. Seeing no one astir, they made a sign, whereupon a man well mounted on a handsome
white horse, his heels armed with golden spurs, rode out of that same narrow street. Behind
him, on the crupper of his horse, Giorgio beheld the body of a man, the head hanging in one
direction and the legs in the other. This body was supported there by two other men on foot,
who walked on either side of the horseman.

Arrived at the water's edge, they turned the horse's hind-quarters to the river; then, taking
the body between them, two of them swung it well out into the stream. After the splash, Giorgio
had heard the horseman inquire whether they had thrown well into the middle, and had heard
him receive the affirmative answer--"Signor, Si." The horseman then sat scanning the surface
a while, and presently pointed out a dark object floating, which proved to be their victim's
cloak. The men threw stones at it, and so sank it, whereupon they turned, and all five departed
as they had come.

Such is the boatman's story, as related in the Diarium of Burchard. When the Pope had heard
it, he asked the fellow why he had not immediately gone to give notice of what he had witnessed,
to which this Giorgio replied that, in his time, he had seen over a hundred bodies thrown into
the Tiber without ever anybody troubling to know anything about them.

This story and Gandia's continued absence threw the Pope into a frenzy of apprehension. He
ordered the bed of the river to be searched foot by foot. Some hundreds of boatmen and fishermen
got to work, and on that same afternoon the body of the ill-fated Duke of Gandia was brought
up in one of the nets. He was not only completely dressed--as was to have been expected from
Giorgio's story--but his gloves and his purse containing thirty ducats were still at his belt,
as was his dagger, the only weapon he had carried; the jewels upon his person, too, were all
intact, which made it abundantly clear that his assassination was not the work of thieves.

His hands were still tied, and there were from ten to fourteen wounds on his body, in addition
to which his throat had been cut.

The corpse was taken in a boat to the Castle of Sant' Angelo, where it was stripped, washed,
and arrayed in the garments of the Captain-General of the Church. That same night, on a bier,
the body covered with a mantle of brocade, the face "looking more beautiful than in life,"
he was carried by torchlight from Sant' Angelo to Santa Maria del Popolo for burial, quietly
and with little pomp.

The Pope's distress was terrible. As the procession was crossing the Bridge of Sant' Angelo,
those who stood there heard his awful cries of anguish, as is related in the dispatches of
an eye-witness quoted by Sanuto. Alexander shut himself up in his apartments with his passionate
sorrow, refusing to see anybody; and it was only by insistence that the Cardinal of Segovia
and some of the Pope's familiars contrived to gain admission to his presence; but even then,
not for three days could they induce him to taste food, nor did he sleep.

At last he roused himself, partly in response to the instances of the Cardinal of Segovia,
partly spurred by the desire to avenge the death of his child, and he ordered Rome to be ransacked
for the assassins; but, although the search was pursued for two months, it proved utterly fruitless.

That is the oft-told story of the death of the Duke of Gandia. Those are all the facts concerning
it that are known or that ever will be known. The rest is speculation, and this speculation
follows the trend of malice rather than of evidence.

Suspicion fell at first upon Giovanni Sforza, who was supposed to have avenged himself thus
upon the Pope for the treatment he had received. There certainly existed that reasonable motive
to actuate him, but not a particle of evidence against him.

Next rumour had it that Cardinal Ascanio Sforza's was the hand that had done this work, and
with this rumour Rome was busy for months. It was known that he had quarrelled violently with
Gandia, who had been grossly insulted by a chamberlain of Ascanio's, and who had wiped out
the insult by having the man seized and hanged.

Sanuto quotes a letter from Rome on July 21, which states that "it is certain that Ascanio
murdered the Duke of Gandia." Cardinal Ascanio's numerous enemies took care to keep the accusation
alive at the Vatican, and Ascanio, in fear for his life, had left Rome and fled to Grottaferrata.
When summoned to Rome, he had refused to come save under safe­conduct. His fears, however,
appear to have been groundless, for the Pope attached no importance to the accusation against
him, convinced of his innocence, as he informed him.

Thereupon public opinion looked about for some other likely person upon whom to fasten its
indictment, and lighted upon Giuffredo Borgia, Gandia's youngest brother. Here, again, a motive
was not wanting. Already has mention been made of the wanton ways of Giuffredo's Neapolitan
wife, Doña Sancia. That she was prodigal of her favours there is no lack of evidence, and it
appears that, amongst those she admitted to them, was the dead duke. Jealousy, then, it was
alleged, was the spur that had driven Giuffredo to the deed; and that the rumour of this must
have been insistent is clear when we find the Pope publicly exonerating his youngest son.

Thus matters stood, and thus had public opinion spoken, when in the month of August the Pope
ordered the search for the murderer to cease. Bracci, the Florentine ambassador, explains this
action of Alexander's. He writes that his Holiness knew who were the murderers, and that he
was taking no further steps in the matter in the hope that thus, conceiving themselves to be
secure, they might more completely discover themselves.

Bracci's next letter bears out the supposition that he writes from inference, and not from
knowledge. He repeats that the investigations have been suspended, and that to account for
this some say what already he has written, whilst others deny it; but that the truth of the
matter is known to none.

Later in the year we find the popular voice denouncing Bartolomeo d'Alviano and the Orsini.
Already in August the Ferrarese ambassador, Manfredi, had written that the death of the Duke
of Gandia was being imputed to Bartolomeo d'Alviano, and in December we see in Sanuto a letter
from Rome which announces that it is positively stated that the Orsini had caused the death
of Giovanni Borgia.

These various rumours were hardly worth mentioning for their own values, but they are important
as showing how public opinion fastened the crime in turn upon everybody it could think of as
at all likely to have had cause to commit it, and more important still for the purpose of refuting
what has since been written concerning the immediate connection of Cesare Borgia with the crime
in the popular mind.

Not until February of the following year was the name of Cesare ever mentioned in connection
with the deed. The first rumour of his guilt synchronized with that of his approaching renunciation
of his ecclesiastical career, and there can be little doubt that the former sprang from the
latter. The world conceived that it had discovered on Cesare's part a motive for the murder
of his brother. That motive--of which so very much has been made--shall presently be examined.
Meanwhile, to deal with the actual rumour, and its crystallization into history. The Ferrarese
ambassador heard it in Venice on February 12, 1498. Capello seized upon it, and repeated it
two and a half years later, stating on September 28, 1500: "etiam amazó il fratello."

And there you have the whole source of all the unbridled accusations subsequently launched
against Cesare, all of which find a prominent place in Gregorovius's Geschichte der Stadt Rom,
whilst the rumours accusing others, which we have mentioned here, are there slurred over.

One hesitates to attack the arguments and conclusions of the very eminent author of that mighty
History of Rome in the Middle Ages, but conscience and justice demand that his chapter upon
this subject be dealt with as it deserves.

The striking talents of Gregorovius are occasionally marred by the egotism and pedantry sometimes
characteristic of the scholars of his nation. He is too positive; he seldom opines; he asserts
with finality the things that only God can know; occasionally his knowledge, transcending the
possible, quits the realm of the historian for that of the romancer, as for instance--to cite
one amid a thousand--when he actually tells us what passes in Cesare Borgia's mind at the coronation
of the King of Naples. In the matter of authorities, he follows a dangerous and insidious eclecticism,
preferring those who support the point of view which he has chosen, without a proper regard
for their intrinsic values.

He tells us definitely that, if Alexander had not positive knowledge, he had at least moral
conviction that it was Cesare who had killed the Duke of Gandia. In that, again, you see the
God-like knowledge which he usurps; you see him clairvoyant rather than historical. Starting
out with the positive assertion that Cesare Borgia was the murderer, he sets himself to prove
it by piling up a mass of worthless evidence, whose worthlessness it is unthinkable he should
not have realized.

"According to the general opinion of the day, which in all probability was correct, Cesare
was the murderer of his brother."

Thus Gregorovius in his Lucrezia Borgia. A deliberate misstatement! For, as we have been at
pains to show, not until the crime had been fastened upon everybody whom public opinion could
conceive to be a possible assassin, not until nearly a year after Gandia's death did rumour
for the first time connect Cesare with the deed. Until then the ambassadors' letters from Rome
in dealing with the murder and reporting speculation upon possible murderers never make a single
allusion to Cesare as the guilty person.

Later, when once it had been bruited, it found its way into the writings of every defamer of
the Borgias, and from several of these it is taken by Gregorovius to help him uphold that theory.

Two motives were urged for the crime. One was Cesare's envy of his brother, whom he desired
to supplant as a secular prince, fretting in the cassock imposed upon himself which restrained
his unbounded ambition. The other--and no epoch but this one under consideration, in its reaction
from the age of chivalry, could have dared to level it without a careful examination of its
sources--was Cesare's jealousy, springing from the incestuous love for their sister Lucrezia,
which he is alleged to have disputed with his brother. Thus, as l'Espinois has pointed out,
to convict Cesare Borgia of a crime which cannot absolutely be proved against him, all that
is necessary is that he should be charged with another crime still more horrible of which even
less proof exists.

This latter motive, it is true, is rejected by Gregorovius. "Our sense of honesty," he writes,
"repels us from attaching faith to the belief spread in that most corrupt age." Yet the authorities
urging one motive are commonly those urging the other, and Gregorovius quotes those that suit
him, without considering that, if he is convinced they lie in one connection, he has not the
right to assume them truthful in another.

The contemporary, or quasi-contemporary writers upon whose "authority" it is usual to show
that Cesare Borgia was guilty of both those revolting crimes are: Sanazzaro, Capello, Macchiavelli,
Matarazzo, Sanuto, Pietro Martire d'Anghiera, Guicciardini, and Panvinio.

A formidable array! But consider them, one by one, at close quarters, and take a critical look
at what they actually wrote:

SANAZZARO was a Neapolitan poet and epigrammatist, who could not--his times being what they
were--be expected to overlook the fact that in these slanderous rumours of incest was excellent
matter for epigrammatical verse. Therefore, he crystallized them into lines which, whilst doing
credit to his wit, reveal his brutal cruelty. No one will seriously suppose that such a man
would be concerned with the veracity of the matter of his verses--even leaving out of the question
his enmity towards the House of Borgia, which will transpire later. For him a ben trovato was
as good matter as a truth, or better. He measured its value by its piquancy, by its adaptability
to epigrammatic rhymes.

Conceive the heartlessness of the man who, at the moment of Alexander's awful grief at the
murder of his son--a grief which so moved even his enemies that the bitter Savonarola, and
the scarcely less bitter Cardinal della Rovere, wrote to condole with him--could pen that terrible
epigram:

     Piscatorem hominum ne te non, Sexte, putemus,
     Piscaris notum retibus ecce tuum.

Consider the ribaldry of that, and ask yourselves whether this is a man who would immolate
the chance of a witticism upon the altar of Truth.

It is significant that Sanazzaro, for what he may be worth, confines himself to the gossip
of incest. Nowhere does he mention that Cesare was the murderer, and we think that his silence
upon the matter, if it shows anything, shows that Cesare's guilt was not so very much the "general
opinion of the day," as Gregorovius asks us to believe.

CAPPELLO was not in Rome at the time of the murder, nor until three years later, when he merely
repeated the rumour that had first sprung up some eight months after the crime.

The precise value of his famous "relation" (in which this matter is recorded, and to which
we shall return in its proper place) and the spirit that actuated him is revealed in another
accusation of murder which he levels at Cesare, an accusation which, of course, has also been
widely disseminated upon no better authority than his own. It is Capello who tells us that
Cesare stabbed the chamberlain Perrotto in the Pope's very arms; he adds the details that the
man had fled thither for shelter from Cesare's fury, and that the blood of him, when he was
stabbed, spurted up into the very face of the Pope. Where he got the story is not readily surmised--unless
it be assumed that he evolved it out of his feelings for the Borgias. The only contemporary
accounts of the death of this Perrotto--or Pedro Caldes, as was his real name--state that he
fell by accident into the Tiber and was drowned.

Burchard, who could not have failed to know if the stabbing story had been true, and would
not have failed to report it, chronicles the fact that Perrotto was fished out of Tiber, having
fallen in six days earlier--"non libenter." This statement, coming from the pen of the Master
of Ceremonies at the Vatican, requires no further corroboration. Yet corroboration there actually
is in a letter from Rome of February 20, 1498, quoted by Marino Sanuto in his Diarii. This
states that Perrotto had been missing for some days, no one knowing what had become of him,
and that now "he has been found drowned in the Tiber."

We mention this, in passing, with the twofold object of slaying another calumny, and revealing
the true value of Capello, who happens to be the chief "witness for the prosecution" put forward
by Gregorovius. "Is it not of great significance," inquires the German historian, "that the
fact should have been related so positively by an ambassador who obtained his knowledge from
the best sources?"

The question is frivolous, for the whole trouble in this matter is that there were no sources
at all, in the proper sense of the word--good or bad. There was simply gossip, which had been
busy with a dozen names already.

MACCHIAVELLI includes a note in his Extracts from Letters to the Ten, in which he mentions
the death of Gandia, adding that "at first nothing was known, and then men said it was done
by the Cardinal of Valencia."

There is nothing very conclusive in that. Besides, incidentally it may be mentioned, that it
is not clear when or how these extracts were compiled by Macchiavelli (in his capacity of Secretary
to the Signory of Florence) from the dispatches of her ambassadors. But it has been shown--though
we are hardly concerned with that at the moment--that these extracts are confused by comments
of his own, either for his own future use or for that of another.

MATARAZZO is the Perugian chronicler of whom we have already expressed the only tenable opinion.
The task he set himself was to record the contemporary events of his native town--the stronghold
of the blood-dripping Baglioni. He enlivened it by every scrap of scandalous gossip that reached
him, however alien to his avowed task. The authenticity of this scandalmongering chronicle
has been questioned; but, even assuming it to be authentic, it is so wildly inaccurate when
dealing with matters happening beyond the walls of Perugia as to be utterly worthless.

Matarazzo relates the story of the incestuous relations prevailing in the Borgia family, and
with an unsparing wealth of detail not to be found elsewhere; but on the subject of the murder
he has a tale to tell entirely different from any other that has been left us. For, whilst
he urges the incest as the motive of the crime, the murderer, he tells us, was Giovanni Sforza,
the outraged husband; and he gives us the fullest details of that murder, time and place and
exactly how committed, and all the other matters which have never been brought to light.

It is all a worthless, garbled piece of fiction, most obviously; as such it has ever been treated;
but it is as plausible as it is untrue, and, at least, as authoritative as any available evidence
assigning the guilt to Cesare.

SANUTO we accept as a more or less careful and painstaking chronicler, whose writings are valuable;
and Sanuto on the matter of the murder confines himself to quoting the letter of February 1498,
in which the accusation against Cesare is first mentioned, after having given other earlier
letters which accuse first Ascanio and then Orsini far more positively than does the latter
letter accuse Cesare.

On the matter of the incest there is no word in Sanuto; but there is mention of Doña Sancia's
indiscretions, and the suggestion that, through jealousy on her account, it was rumoured that
the murder had been committed--another proof of how vague and ill-defined the rumours were.

PIETRO MARTIRE D'ANGHIERA writes from Burgos, in Spain, that he is convinced of the fratricide.
It is interesting to know of that conviction of his; but difficult to conceive how it is to
be accepted as evidence.

If more needs to be said of him, let it be mentioned that the letter in which he expresses
that conviction is dated April 1497--two months before the murder took place! So that even
Gregorovius is forced to doubt the authenticity of that document.

GUICCIARDINI is not a contemporary chronicler of events as they happened, but an historian
writing some thirty years later. He merely repeats what Capello and others have said before
him. It is for him to quote authorities for what he writes, and not to be set up as an authority.
He is not reliable, and he is a notorious defamer of the Papacy, sparing nothing that will
serve his ends. He dilates with gusto upon the accusation of incest.

Lastly, PANVINTO is in the same category as Guicciardini. He was not born until some thirty
years after these events, and his History of the Popes was not written until some sixty years
after the murder of the Duke of Gandia. This history bristles with inaccuracies; he never troubles
to verify his facts, and as an authority he is entirely negligible.

In the valuable Diarium of Burchard there is unfortunately a lacuna at this juncture, from
the day after the murder (of which he gives the full particulars to which we have gone for
our narrative of that event) until the month of August following. And now we may see Gregorovius
actually using silence as evidence. He seizes upon that lacuna, and goes so far as to set up
the tentative explanation that Burchard "perhaps purposely interrupted his Diary that he might
avoid mentioning the fratricide."

If such were the case, it would be a strange departure from Burchard's invariable rule, which
is one of cold, relentless, uncritical chronicling of events, no matter what their nature.
Besides, any significance with which that lacuna might be invested is discounted by the fact
that such gaps are of fairly common occurrence in the course of Burchard's record. Finally
it remains to be shown that the lacuna in question exists in the original diaries, which have
yet to be discovered.

So much for the valuable authorities, out of which--and by means of a selection which is not
quite clearly defined--Gregorovius claims to have proved that the murderer of the Duke of Gandia
was his brother Cesare Borgia, Cardinal of Valencia.(1)

  1  It is rather odd that, in the course of casting about for a possible
murderer of Gandia, public opinion should never have fastened upon
Cardinal Alessandro Farnese. He had lately been stripped of the
Patrimony of St. Peter that the governorship of this might be bestowed
upon Gandia; his resentment had been provoked by that action of the
Pope's, and the relations between himself and the Borgias were strained
in consequence. Possibly there was clear proof that he could have had no
connection with the crime.

Now to examine more closely the actual motives given by those authorities and by later, critical
writers, for attributing the guilt to Cesare. (Collenuccio's letter from Rome to the Duke of
Ferrara, Dec. 25, 1497).

If you know anything of the Italy of to-day, you will be able to conceive for yourself how
the Italy of the fifteenth century must have held her sides and pealed her laughter at the
contemptible spectacle of an unfortunate who afforded such reason to be bundled out of a nuptial
bed. The echo of that mighty burst of laughter must have rung from Calabria to the Alps, and
well may it have filled the handsome weakling who was the object of its cruel ridicule with
a talion fury. The weapons he took up wherewith to defend himself were a little obvious. He
answered the odious reflections upon his virility by a wholesale charge of incest against the
Borgia family; he screamed that what had been said of him was a lie invented by the Borgias
to serve their own unutterable ends.(1) Such was the accusation with which the squirming Lord
of Pesaro retaliated, and, however obvious, yet it was not an accusation that the world of
his day would lightly cast aside, for all that the perspicacious may have rated it at its proper
value.

  1 "Et mancho se e curato de fare prova de qua con Done per poterne
chiarire el Rev. Legato che era qua, sebbene sua Excellentia tastandolo
sopra cio gli ne abbia facto offerta." (Costabili's letter from Milan to the Duke of
Ferrara, June 23, 1497).

What is of great importance to students of the history of the Borgias is that this was the
first occasion on which the accusation of incest was raised. Of course it persisted; such a
charge could not do otherwise. But now that we see in what soil it had its roots we shall know
what importance to attach to it.

Not only did it persist, but it developed, as was but natural. Cesare and the dead Gandia were
included in it, and presently it suggested a motive--not dreamed of until then--why Cesare
might have been his brother's murderer.

Then, early in 1498, came the rumour that Cesare was intending to abandon the purple, and later
Writers, from Capello down to our own times, have chosen to see in Cesare's supposed contemplation
of that step a motive so strong for the crime as to prove it in the most absolutely conclusive
manner. In no case could it be such proof, even if it were admitted as a motive. But is it
really so to be admitted? Did such a motive exist at all? Does it really follow--as has been
taken for granted--that Cesare must have remained an ecclesiastic had Gandia lived? We cannot
see that it does. Indeed, such evidence as there is, when properly considered, points in the
opposite direction, even if no account is taken of the fact that this was not the first occasion
on which it was proposed that Cesare should abandon the ecclesiastical career, as is shown
by the Ferrarese ambassador's dispatches of March 1493.

It is contended that Gandia was a stumbling-block to Cesare, and that Gandia held the secular
possessions which Cesare coveted; but if that were really the case why, when eventually (some
fourteen months after Gandia's death) Cesare doffed the purple to replace it by a soldier's
harness, did he not assume the secular possessions that had been his brother's?

His dead brother's lands and titles went to his dead brother's son, whilst Cesare's career
was totally different, as his aims were totally different, from any that had been Gandia's,
or that might have been Gandia's had the latter lived. True, Cesare became Captain-General
of the Church in his dead brother's place; but for that his brother's death was not necessary.
Gandia had neither the will nor the intellect to undertake the things that awaited Cesare.
He was a soft-natured, pleasure-loving youth, whose way of life was already mapped out for
him. His place was at Gandia, in Spain, and, whilst he might have continued lord of all the
possessions that were his, it would have been Cesare's to become Duke of Valentinois, and to
have made himself master of Romagna, precisely as he did.

In conclusion, Gandia's death no more advanced, than his life could have impeded, the career
which Cesare afterwards made his own, and to say that Cesare murdered him to supplant him is
to set up a theory which the subsequent facts of Cesare's life will nowise justify.

It is idle of Gregorovius to say that the logic of the crime is inexorable--in its assigning
the guilt to Cesare--fatuous of him to suppose that, as he claims, he has definitely proved
Cesare to be his brother's murderer.

There is much against Cesare Borgia, but it never has been proved, and never will be proved,
that he was a fratricide. Indeed the few really known facts of the murder all point to a very
different conclusion--a conclusion more or less obvious, which has been discarded, presumably
for no better reason than because it was obvious.

Where was all this need to go so far afield in quest of a probable murderer imbued with political
motives? Where the need to accuse in turn every enemy that Gandia could possibly possess before
finally fastening upon his own brother?

Certain evidence is afforded by the known facts of the case, scant as they are. It may not
amount to much, but at least it is sufficient to warrant a plausible conclusion, and there
is no justification for discarding it in favour of something for which not a particle of evidence
is forthcoming.

There is, first of all, the man in the mask to be accounted for. That he is connected with
the crime is eminently probable, if not absolutely certain.

It is to be remembered that for a month--according to Burchard--he had been in the habit of
visiting Gandia almost daily. He comes to Vannozza's villa on the night of the murder. Is it
too much to suppose that he brought a message from some one from whom he was in the habit of
bringing messages?

He was seen last on the crupper of Gandia's horse as the latter rode away towards the Jewish
quarter.(1) Gandia himself announced that he was bound on pleasure--going to amuse himself.
Even without the knowledge which we possess of his licentious habits, no doubt could arise
as to the nature of the amusement upon which he was thus bound at dead of night; and there
are the conclusions formed in the morning by his father, when it was found that Gandia had
not returned.

  1  The Ghetto was not yet in existence.  It was not built until 1556,
under Paul IV.

Is it so very difficult to conceive that Gandia, in the course of the assignation to which
he went, should have fallen into the hands of an irate father, husband, or brother? Is it not
really the obvious inference to draw from the few facts that we possess? That it was the inference
drawn by the Pope and clung to even some time after the crime and while rumours of a different
sort were rife, is shown by the perquisition made in the house of Antonio Pico della Mirandola,
who had a daughter whom it was conceived might have been the object of the young duke's nocturnal
visit, and whose house was near the place where Gandia was flung into the Tiber.

We could hazard speculations that would account for the man in the mask, but it is not our
business to speculate save where the indications are fairly clear.

Let us consider the significance of Gandia's tied hands and the wounds upon his body in addition
to the mortal gash across his throat. To what does this condition point? Surely not to a murder
of expediency so much as to a fierce, lustful butchery of vengeance. Surely it suggests that
Gandia may have been tortured before his throat was cut. Why else were his wrists pinioned?
Had he been swiftly done to death there would have been no need for that. Had hired assassins
done the work they would not have stayed to pinion him, nor do we think they would have troubled
to fling him into the river; they would have slain and left him where he fell.

The whole aspect of the case suggests the presence of the master, of the personal enemy himself.
We can conceive Gandia's wrists being tied, to the end that this personal enemy might do his
will upon the wretched young man, dealing him one by one the ten or fourteen wounds in the
body before making an end of him by cutting his throat. We cannot explain the pinioned wrists
in any other way. Then the man on the handsome white horse, the man whom the four others addressed
as men address their lord. Remember his gold spurs--a trifle, perhaps; but hired assassins
do not wear gold spurs, even though their bestriding handsome white horses may be explainable.

Surely that was the master, the personal enemy himself--and it was not Cesare, for Cesare at
the time was at the Vatican.

There we must leave the mystery of the murder of the Duke of Gandia; but we leave it convinced
that, such scant evidence as there is, points to an affair of sordid gallantry, and nowise
implicates his brother Cesare.

CHAPTER V. THE RENUNCIATION OF THE PURPLE

At the Consistory of June 19, 1497 the Sacred College beheld a broken-hearted old man who declared
that he had done with the world, and that henceforth life could offer him nothing that should
endear it to him.

"A greater sorrow than this could not be ours, for we loved him exceedingly, and now we can
hold neither the Papacy nor any other thing as of concern. Had we seven Papacies, we would
give them all to restore the duke to life." So ran his bitter lament.

He denounced his course of life as not having been all that it should have been, and appeared
to see in the murder of his son a punishment for the evil of his ways. Much has been made of
this, and quite unnecessarily. It has been taken eagerly as an admission of his unparalleled
guilt. An admission of guilt it undoubtedly was; but what man is not guilty? and how many men--ay,
and saints even--in the hour of tribulation have cried out that they were being made to feel
the wrath of God for the sins that no man is without?

If humanity contains a type that would not have seen in such a cause for sorrow a visitation
of God, it is the type of inhuman monster to which we are asked to believe that Alexander VI
belonged. A sinner unquestionably he was, and a great one; but a human sinner, and not an incarnate
devil, else there could have been no such outcry from him in such an hour as this.

He announced that henceforth the spiritual needs of the Church should be his only care. He
inveighed against the corruption of the ecclesiastical estate, confessing himself aware of
how far it had strayed from the ancient discipline and from the laws that had been framed to
bridle licence and cupidity, which were now rampant and unchecked; and he proclaimed his intention
to reform the Curia and the Church of Rome. To this end he appointed a commission consisting
of the Cardinal-Bishops Oliviero Caraffa and Giorgio Costa, the Cardinal-Priests Antonietto
Pallavicino and Gianantonio Sangiorgio, and the Cardinal-Deacons Francesco Piccolomini and
Raffaele Riario.

There was even a suggestion that he was proposing to abdicate, but that he was prevailed upon
to do nothing until his grief should have abated and his judgement be restored to its habitual
calm. This suggestion, however, rests upon no sound authority.

Letters of condolence reached him on every hand. Even his arch-enemy, Cardinal Giuliano della
Rovere, put aside his rancour in the face of the Pope's overwhelming grief--and also because
it happened to consort with his own interests, as will presently transpire. He wrote to Alexander
from France that he was truly pained to the very soul of him in his concern for the Pope's
Holiness--a letter which, no doubt, laid the foundations to the reconciliation that was toward
between them.

Still more remarkable was it that the thaumaturgical Savonarola should have paused in the atrabilious
invective with which he was inflaming Florence against the Pope, should have paused to send
him a letter of condolence in which he prayed that the Lord of all mercy might comfort his
Holiness in his tribulation.

That letter is a singular document; singularly human, yielding a singular degree of insight
into the nature of the man who penned it. A whole chapter of intelligent speculation upon the
character of Savonarola, based upon a study of externals, could not reveal as much of the mentality
of that fanatical demagogue as the consideration of just this letter.

The sympathy by which we cannot doubt it to have been primarily inspired is here overspread
by the man's rampant fanaticism, there diluted by the prophecies from which he cannot even
now refrain; and, throughout, the manner is that of the pulpit-thumping orator. The first half
of his letter is a prelude in the form of a sermon upon Faith, all very trite and obvious;
and the notion of this excommunicated friar holding forth to the Pope's Holiness in polemical
platitudes delivered with all the authority of inspired discoveries of his own is one more
proof that at the root of fanaticism in all ages and upon all questions, lies an utter lack
of a sense of fitness and proportion. Having said that "the just man liveth in the Lord by
faith," and that "the Lord in His mercy passeth over all our sins," he proclaims that he announces
things of which he is assured, and for which he is ready to suffer all persecutions, and begs
his Holiness to turn a favourable eye upon the work of faith in which he is labouring, and
to give heed no more to the impious, promising the Holy Father that thus shall the Lord bestow
upon him the essence of joy instead of the spirit of grief. Having begun, as we have seen,
with an assurance that "the Lord in His mercy passeth over all our sins," he concludes by prophesying,
with questionable logic, that "the thunders of His wrath will ere long be heard." Nor does
he omit to mention--with an apparent arrogance that again betrays that same want of a sense
of proportion--that all his predictions are true.

His letter, however, and that of Cardinal della Rovere, among so many others, show us how touched
was the world by the Pope's loss and overwhelming grief, how shocked at the manner in which
this had been brought about.

The commission which Alexander had appointed for the work of reform had meanwhile got to work,
and the Cardinal of Naples edited the articles of a constitution which was undoubtedly the
object of prolonged study and consideration, as is revealed by the numerous erasures and emendations
which it bears. Unfortunately--for reasons which are not apparent--it was never published by
Alexander. Possibly by the time that it was concluded the aggrandizement of the temporal power
was claiming his entire attention to the neglect of the spiritual needs of the Holy See. It
is also possible--as has been abundantly suggested--that the stern mood of penitence had softened
with his sorrow, and was now overpast.

Nevertheless, it may have been some lingering remnant of this fervour of reform that dictated
the severe punishment which fell that year upon the flagitious Bishop of Cosenza. A fine trade
was being driven in Rome by the sale of forged briefs of indulgence. Raynaldus cites a Bull
on that score addressed by Alexander, in the first year of his pontificate, to the bishops
of Spain, enjoining them to visit with punishment all who in that kingdom should be discovered
to be pursuing such a traffic. On September 4, 1497, Burchard tells us, three servants of the
Pontifical Secretary, the Archbishop of Cosenza (Bartolomeo Florido) were arrested in consequence
of the discovery of twenty forged briefs issued by them. In their examination they incriminated
their master the archbishop, who was consequently put upon his trial and found guilty. Alexander
deposed, degraded, and imprisoned him in Sant' Angelo in a dark room, where he was supplied
with oil for his lamp and bread and water for his nourishment until he died. His underlings
were burnt in the Campo di Fiori in the following month.

The Duke of Gandia left a widow and two children--Giovanni, a boy of three years of age, and
Isabella, a girl of two. In the interests of her son, the widowed duchess applied to the Governor
of Valencia in the following September for the boy's investiture in the rights of his deceased
father. This was readily granted upon authority from Rome, and so the boy Giovanni was recognized
as third Duke of Gandia, Prince of Sessa and Teano, and Lord of Cerignola and Montefoscolo,
and the administration of his estates during his minority was entrusted to his uncle, Cesare
Borgia.

The Lordship of Benevento--the last grant made to Giovanni Borgia--was not mentioned; nor was
it then nor ever subsequently claimed by the widow. It is the one possession of Gandia's that
went to Cesare, who was confirmed in it by the King of Naples.

The Gandia branch of the Borgia family remained in Spain, prospered and grew in importance,
and, incidentally, produced St. Francis de Borgia. This Duke of Gandia was Master of the Household
to Charles V, and thus a man of great worldly consequence; but it happened that he was so moved
by the sight of the disfigured body of his master's beautiful queen that he renounced the world
and entered the Society of Jesus, eventually becoming its General. He died in 1562, and in
the fulness of time was canonized.

Cesare's departure for Naples as legate a latere to anoint and crown Federigo of Aragon was
naturally delayed by the tragedy that had assailed his house, and not until July 22 did he
take his leave of the Pope and set out with an escort of two hundred horse.

Naples was still in a state of ferment, split into two parties, one of which favoured France
and the other Aragon, so that disturbances were continual. Alexander expressed the hope that
Cesare might appear in that distracted kingdom in the guise of an "angel of peace," and that
by his coronation of King Federigo he should set a term to the strife that was toward.

The city of Naples itself was now being ravaged by fever, and in consequence of this it was
determined that Cesare should repair instead to Capua, where Federigo would await him. Arrived
there, however, Cesare fell ill, and the coronation ceremony again suffered a postponement
until August 10. Cesare remained a fortnight in the kingdom, and on August 22 set out to return
to Rome, and his departure appears to have been a matter of relief to Federigo, for so impoverished
did the King of Naples find himself that the entertainment of the legate and his numerous escort
had proved a heavy tax upon his flabby purse.

On the morning of September 6 all the cardinals in Rome received a summons to attend at the
Monastery of Santa Maria Nuova to welcome the returned Cardinal of Valencia. In addition to
the Sacred College all the ambassadors of the Powers were present, and, after the celebration
of the Mass, the entire assembly proceeded to the Vatican, where the Pope was waiting to receive
his son. When the young cardinal presented himself at the foot of the papal throne Alexander
opened his arms to him, embraced, and kissed him, speaking no word.

This rests upon the evidence of two eye-witnesses,(1) and the circumstance has been urged and
propounded into the one conclusive piece of evidence that Cesare had murdered his brother,
and that the Pope knew it. In this you have some more of what Gregorovius terms "inexorable
logic." He kissed him, but he spake no word to him; therefore, they reason, Cesare murdered
Gandia. Can absurdity be more absurd, fatuity more fatuous? Lucus a non lucendo! To square
the circle should surely present no difficulty to these subtle logicians.

  1  "Non dixit verbum Pape Valentinus, nec Papa sibi, sed eo deosculato,
descendit de solio" (Burchard's Diarium, and "Solo lo bació," in letter
from Rome in Sanuto's Diarii)

It was, as we have seen, in February of 1498 that it was first rumoured that Cesare intended
to put off the purple; and that the rumour had ample foundation was plain from the circumstance
that the Pope was already laying plans whose fulfilment must be dependent upon that step, and
seeking to arrange a marriage for Cesare with Carlotta of Aragon, King Federigo of Naples's
daughter, stipulating that her dowry should be such that Cesare, in taking her to wife, should
become Prince of Altamura and Tarentum.

But Federigo showed himself unwilling, possibly in consideration of the heavy dowry demanded
and of the heavy draft already made by the Borgias--through Giuffredo Borgia, Prince of Squillace--upon
this Naples which the French invasion had so impoverished. He gave out that he would not have
his daughter wedded to a priest who was the son of a priest and that he would not give his
daughter unless the Pope could contrive that a cardinal might marry and yet retain his hat.

It all sounded as if he were actuated by nice scruples and high principles; but the opinion
is unfortunately not encouraged when we find him, nevertheless, giving his consent to the marriage
of his nephew Alfonso to Lucrezia Borgia upon the pronouncement of her divorce from Giovanni
Sforza. The marriage, let us say in passing, was celebrated at the Vatican on June 20, 1498,
Lucrezia receiving a dowry of 40,000 ducats. But the astute Alexander saw to it that his family
should acquire more than it gave, and contrived that Alfonso should receive the Neapolitan
cities of Biselli and Quadrata, being raised to the title of Prince of Biselli.

Nevertheless, there was a vast difference between giving in marriage a daughter who must take
a weighty dowry out of the kingdom and receiving a daughter who would bring a handsome dowry
with her. And the facts suggest that such was the full measure of Federigo's scruples.

Meanwhile, to dissemble his reluctance to let Cesare have his daughter to wife, Federigo urged
that he must first take the feeling of Ferdinand and Isabella in this matter.

While affairs stood thus, Charles VIII died suddenly at Amboise in April of that year 1498.
Some work was being carried out there by artists whom he had brought from Naples for the purpose,
and, in going to visit this, the king happened to enter a dark gallery, and struck his forehead
so violently against the edge of a door that he expired the same day--at the age of twenty-eight.
He was a poor, malformed fellow, as we have seen, and "of little understanding," Commines tells
us, "but so good that it would have been impossible to have found a kinder creature."

With him the Valois dynasty came to an end. He was succeeded by his cousin, the Duke of Orleans,
who, upon his coronation at Rheims, assumed the title of King of France and the Two Sicilies
and Duke of Milan--a matter which considerably perturbed Federigo of Aragon and Lodovico Sforza.
Each of these rulers saw in that assumption of his own title by Louis XII a declaration of
enmity, the prelude to a declaration of open war; wherefore, deeming it idle to send their
ambassadors to represent them at the Court of France, they refrained from doing so.

Louis XII's claim upon the Duchy of Milan was based upon his being the grandson of Valentina
Visconti, and, considering himself a Visconti, he naturally looked upon the Sforza dominion
as no better than a usurpation which too long had been left undisturbed. To disturb it now
was the first aim of his kingship. And to this end, as well as in another matter, the friendship
of the Pope was very desirable to Louis.

The other matter concerned his matrimonial affairs. No sooner did he find himself King of France
than he applied to Rome for the dissolution of his marriage with Jeanne de Valois, the daughter
of Louis XI. The grounds he urged were threefold: Firstly, between himself and Jeanne there
existed a relationship of the fourth degree and a spiritual affinity, resulting from the fact
that her father, Louis XI, had held him at the baptismal font--which before the Council of
Trent did constitute an impediment to marriage. Secondly, he had not been a willing party to
the union, but had entered into it as a consequence of intimidation from the terrible Louis
XI, who had threatened his life and possessions if not obeyed in this. Thirdly, Jeanne laboured
under physical difficulties which rendered her incapable of maternity.

Of such a nature was the appeal he made to Alexander, and Alexander responded by appointing
a commission presided over by the Cardinal of Luxembourg, and composed of that same cardinal
and the Bishops of Albi and Ceuta, assisted by five other bishops as assessors, to investigate
the king's grievance. There appears to be no good reason for assuming that the inquiry was
not conducted fairly and honourably or that the finding of the bishops and ultimate annulment
of the marriage was not in accordance with their consciences. We are encouraged to assume that
all this was indeed so, when we consider that Jeanne de Valois submitted without protest to
the divorce, and that neither then nor subsequently at any time did she prefer any complaint,
accepting the judgement, it is presumable, as a just and fitting measure.

She applied to the Pope for permission to found a religious order, whose special aim should
be the adoration and the emulation of the perfections of the Blessed Virgin, a permission which
Alexander very readily accorded her. He was, himself, imbued with a very special devotion for
the Mother of the Saviour. We see the spur of this special devotion of his in the votive offering
of a silver effigy to her famous altar of the Santissima Nunziata in Florence, which he had
promised in the event of Rome being freed from Charles VIII. Again, after the accident of the
collapse of a roof in the Vatican, in which he narrowly escaped death, it is to Santa Maria
Nuova that we see him going in procession to hold a solemn thanksgiving service to Our Lady.
In a dozen different ways did that devotion find expression during his pontificate; and be
it remembered that Catholics owe it to Alexander VI that the Angelus-bell is rung thrice daily
in honour of the Blessed Virgin.

To us this devotion to the Mother of Chastity on the part of a churchman openly unchaste in
flagrant subversion of his vows is a strange and incongruous spectacle. But the incongruity
of it is illumining. It reveals Alexander's simple attitude towards the sins of the flesh,
and shows how, in common with most churchmen of his day, he found no conscientious difficulty
in combining fervid devotion with perfervid licence. Whatever it may seem by ours, by his lights--by
the light of the examples about him from his youth, by the light of the precedents afforded
him by his predecessors in St. Peter's Chair--his conduct was a normal enough affair, which
can have afforded him little with which to reproach himself.

In the matter of the annulment of the marriage of Louis XII it is to be conceded that Alexander
made the most of the opportunity it afforded him. He perceived that the moment was propitious
for enlisting the services of the King of France to the achievement of his own ends, more particularly
to further the matter of the marriage of Cesare Borgia with Carlotta of Aragon, who was being
reared at the Court of France. Accordingly Alexander desired the Bishop of Ceuta to lay his
wishes in the matter before the Christian King, and, to the end that Cesare might find a fitting
secular estate awaiting him when eventually he emerged from the clergy, the Pope further suggested
to Louis, through the bishop's agency, that Cesare should receive the investiture of the counties
of Valentinois and Dyois in Dauphiny. On the face of it this wears the look of inviting bribery.
In reality it scarcely amounted to so much, although the opportunism that prompted the request
is undeniable. Yet it is worthy of consideration that in what concerned the counties of Valentinois
and Dyois, the Pope's suggestion constituted a wise political step. These territories had been
in dispute between France and the Holy See for a matter of some two hundred years, during which
the Popes had been claiming dominion over them. The claims had been admitted by Louis XI, who
had relinquished the counties to the Church; but shortly after his death the Parliament of
Dauphiny had restored them to the crown of France. Charles VIII and Innocent VIII had wrangled
over them, and an arbitration was finally projected, but never held.

Alexander now perceived a way to solve the difficulty by a compromise which should enrich his
son and give the latter a title to replace that of cardinal which he was to relinquish. So
his proposal to Louis XII was that the Church should abandon its claim upon the territories,
whilst the king, raising Valentinois to the dignity of a duchy, should so confer it upon Cesare
Borgia.

Although the proposal was politically sound, it constituted at the same time an act of flagrant
nepotism. But let us bear in mind that Alexander did not lack a precedent for this particular
act. When Louis XI had surrendered Valentinois to Sixtus IV, this Pope had bestowed it upon
his nephew Girolamo, thereby vitiating any claim that the Holy See might subsequently have
upon the territory. We judge it--under the circumstances that Louis XI had surrendered it to
the Church--to be a far more flagrant piece of nepotism than was Alexander's now.

Louis XII, nothing behind the Pope in opportunism, saw in the concession asked of him the chance
of acquiring Alexander's good-will. He consented, accompanying his consent by a request for
a cardinal's hat for Georges d'Amboise, Bishop of Rouen, who had been his devoted friend in
less prosperous times, and the sharer of his misfortunes under the previous reign, and was
now his chief counsellor and minister. In addition he besought--dependent, of course, upon
the granting of the solicited divorce--a dispensation to marry Anne of Brittany, the beautiful
widow of Charles VIII. This was Louis's way of raising the price, as it were, of the concession
and services asked of him; yet, that there might be no semblance of bargaining, his consent
to Cesare's being created Duke of Valentinois was simultaneous with his request for further
favours.

With the Royal Patents conferring that duchy upon the Pope's son, Louis de Villeneuve reached
Rome on August 7, 1498. On the same day the young cardinal came before the Sacred College,
assembled in Consistory, to crave permission to doff the purple.

After the act of adoration of the Pope's Holiness, he humbly submitted to his brother cardinals
that his inclinations had ever been in opposition to his embracing the ecclesiastical dignity,
and that, if he had entered upon it at all, this had been solely at the instances of his Holiness,
just as he had persevered in it to gratify him; but that, his inclinations and desires for
the secular estate persisting, he implored the Holy Father, of his clemency, to permit him
to put off his habit and ecclesiastical rank, to restore his hat and benefices to the Church,
and to grant him dispensation to return to the world and be free to contract marriage. And
he prayed the very reverend cardinals to use their good offices on his behalf, adding to his
own their intercessions to the Pope's Holiness to accord him the grace he sought.

The cardinals relegated the decision of the matter to the Pope. Cardinal Ximenes alone--as
the representative of Spain--stood out against the granting of the solicited dispensation,
and threw obstacles in the way of it. In this, no doubt, he obeyed his instructions from Ferdinand
and Isabella, who saw to the bottom of the intrigue with France that was toward, and of the
alliance that impended between Louis XII and the Holy See--an alliance not at all to the interests
of Spain.

The Pope made a speedy rout of the cardinal's objections with the most apostolic and irresistible
of all weapons. He pointed out that it was not for him to hinder the Cardinal of Valencia's
renunciation of the purple, since that renunciation was clearly become necessary for the salvation
of his soul--"Pro salutae animae suae"--to which, of course, Ximenes had no answer.

But, with the object of conciliating Spain, this ever-politic Pope indicated that, if Cesare
was about to become a prince of France, his many ecclesiastical benefices, yielding some 35,000
gold florins yearly, being mostly in Spain, would be bestowed upon Spanish churchmen, and he
further begged Ximenes to remember that he already had a "nephew" at the Court of Spain in
the person of the heir of Gandia, whom he particularly commended to the favour of Ferdinand
and Isabella.

Thus was Cesare Borgia's petition granted, and his return to the world accomplished. And, by
a strange chance of homonymy, his title remained unchanged despite his change of estate. The
Cardinal of Valencia, in Spain, became the Duke of Valence--or Valentinois--in France and in
Italy Valentino remained Valentino.

BOOK III. THE BULL RAMPANT

"Cum numine Caesaris omen."

(motto on Cesare Borgia's sword.)

CHAPTER I. THE DUCHESS OF VALENTINOIS

King Louis XII dispatched the Sieur de Sarenon by sea, with a fleet of three ships and five
galleys, to the end that he should conduct the new duke to France, which fleet was delayed
so that it did not drop its anchors at Ostia until the end of September.

Meanwhile, Cesare's preparations for departure had been going forward, and were the occasion
of a colossal expenditure on the part of his sire. For the Pope desired that his son, in going
to France to assume his estate, and for the further purposes of marrying a wife, of conveying
to Louis the dispensation permitting his marriage with Anne of Brittany, and of bearing the
red hat to Amboise, should display the extraordinary magnificence for which the princes of
cultured and luxurious Italy were at the time renowned.

His suite consisted of fully a hundred attendants, what with esquires, pages, lacqueys and
grooms, whilst twelve chariots and fifty sumpter-mules were laden with his baggage. The horses
of his followers were all sumptuously caparisoned with bridles and stirrups of solid silver;
and, for the rest, the splendour of the liveries, the weapons and the jewels, and the richness
of the gifts he bore with him were the amazement even of that age of dazzling displays.

In Cesare's train went Ramiro de Lorqua, the Master of his Household; Agabito Gherardi, his
secretary; and his Spanish physician, Gaspare Torella--the only medical man of his age who
had succeeded in discovering a treatment for the pudendagra which the French had left in Italy,
and who had dedicated to Cesare his learned treatise upon that disease.

As a body-guard, or escort of honour, Cesare took with him thirty gentlemen, mostly Romans,
among whom were Giangiordano Orsini, Pietro Santa Croce, Mario di Mariano, Domenico Sanguigna,
Giulio Alberini, Bartolomeo Capranica, and Gianbattista Mancini--all young, and all members
of those patrician families which Alexander VI had skilfully attached to his own interest.

The latest of these was the Orsini family, with which an alliance was established by the marriage
celebrated at the Vatican on September 28 of that same year between Fabio Orsini and Girolama
Borgia, a niece of the Pope's.

Cesare's departure took place on October 1, in the early morning, when he rode out with his
princely retinue, and followed the Tiber along Trastevere, without crossing the city. He was
mounted on a handsome charger, caparisoned in red silk and gold brocade--the colours of France,
in which he had also dressed his lacqueys. He wore a doublet of white damask laced with gold,
and carried a mantle of black velvet swinging from his shoulders. Of black velvet, too, was
the cap on his auburn head, its sable colour an effective background for the ruddy effulgence
of the great rubies--"as large as beans"--with which it was adorned.

Of the gentlemen who followed him, the Romans were dressed in the French mode, like himself,
whilst the Spaniards adhered to the fashions of their native Spain.

He was escorted as far as the end of the Banchi by four cardinals, and from a window of the
Vatican the Pope watched the imposing cavalcade and followed it with his eyes until it was
lost to view, weeping, we are told, for very joy at the contemplation of the splendour and
magnificence which it had been his to bestow upon his beloved son--"the very heart of him,"
as he wrote to the King of France in that letter of which Cesare was the bearer.

On October 12 the Duke of Valentinois landed at Marseilles, where he was received by the Bishop
of Dijon, whom the king had sent to meet him, and who now accompanied the illustrious visitor
to Avignon. There Cesare was awaited by the Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere. This prelate was
now anxious to make his peace with Alexander--and presently we shall look into the motives
that probably inspired him, a matter which has so far, we fancy, escaped criticism for reasons
that we shall also strive to make apparent. To the beginnings of a reconciliation with the
Pontiff afforded by his touching letter of condolence on the death of the Duke of Gandia, he
now added a very cordial reception and entertainment of Cesare; and throughout his sojourn
in France the latter received at the hands of della Rovere the very friendliest treatment,
the cardinal missing no opportunity of working in the duke's interests and for the advancement
of his ends.

The Pope wrote to the cardinal commending Cesare to his good graces, and the cardinal replied
with protestations which he certainly proceeded to make good.

Della Rovere was to escort Cesare to the king, who was with his Court then at Chinon, awaiting
the completion of the work that was being carried out at his Castle of Blois, which presently
became his chief residence. But Cesare appears to have tarried in Avignon, for he was still
there at the end of October, nor did he reach Chinon until the middle of December. The pomp
of his entrance was a thing stupendous. We find a detailed relation of it in Brantôme, translated
into prose form some old verses which, he tells us, that he found in the family treasury. He
complains of their coarseness, and those who are acquainted with the delightful old Frenchman's
own frankness of expression may well raise their brows at that criticism of his. Whatever the
coarse liberties taken with the subject--of which we are not allowed more than an occasional
glimpse--and despite the fact that the relation was in verse, which ordinarily makes for the
indulgence of the rhymer's fancy--the description appears to be fairly accurate, for it corresponds
more or less with the particulars given in Sanuto.

At the head of the cavalcade went twenty-four sumpter-mules, laden with coffers and other baggage
under draperies embroidered with Cesare's arms--prominent among which would be the red bull,
the emblem of his house, and the three-pointed flame, his own particular device. Behind these
came another twenty-four mules, caparisoned in the king's colours of scarlet and gold, to be
followed in their turn by sixteen beautiful chargers led by hand, similarly caparisoned, and
their bridles and stirrups of solid silver. Next came eighteen pages on horseback, sixteen
of whom were in scarlet and yellow, whilst the remaining two were in cloth of gold. These were
followed by a posse of lacqueys in the same liveries and two mules laden with coffers draped
with cloth of gold, which contained the gifts of which Cesare was the bearer. Behind these
rode the duke's thirty gentlemen, in cloth of gold and silver, and amongst them came the duke
himself.

Cesare was mounted on a superb war-horse that was all empanoplied in a cuirass of gold leaves
of exquisite workmanship, its head surmounted by a golden artichoke, its tail confined in a
net of gold abundantly studded with pearls. The duke was in black velvet, through the slashings
of which appeared the gold brocade of the undergarment. Suspended from a chain said by Brantôme's
poet to be worth thirty thousand ducats, a medallion of diamonds blazed upon his breast, and
in his black velvet cap glowed those same wonderful rubies that we saw on the occasion of his
departure from Rome. His boots were of black velvet, laced with gold thread that was studded
with gems.

The rear of the cavalcade was brought up by more mules and the chariots bearing his plate and
tents and all the other equipage with which a prince was wont to travel.

It is said by some that his horse was shod with solid gold, and there is also a story--pretty,
but probably untrue--that some of his mules were shod in the same metal, and that, either because
the shoes were loosely attached of intent, or because the metal, being soft, parted readily
from the hoofs, these golden shoes were freely cast and left as largesse for those who might
care to take them.

The Bishop of Rouen--that same Georges d'Amboise for whom he was bringing the red hat--the
Seneschal of Toulouse and several gentlemen of the Court went to meet him on the bridge, and
escorted him up through the town to the castle, where the king awaited him. Louis XII gave
him a warm and cordial welcome, showing him then and thereafter the friendliest consideration.
Not so, however, the lady he was come to woo. It was said in Venice that she was in love with
a young Breton gentleman in the following of Queen Anne. Whether this was true, and Carlotta
acted in the matter in obedience to her own feelings, or whether she was merely pursuing the
instructions she had received from Naples, she obstinately and absolutely refused to entertain
or admit the suit of Cesare.

Della Rovere, on January 18, wrote to the Pope from Nantes, whither the Court had moved, a
letter in which he sang the praises of the young Duke of Valentinois.

"By his modesty his readiness, his prudence, and his other virtues he has known how to earn
the affections of every one." Unfortunately, there was one important exception, as the cardinal
was forced to add: "The damsel, either out of her own contrariness, or because so induced by
others, which is easier to believe, constantly refuses to hear of the wedding."

Della Rovere was quite justified in finding it easier to believe that Carlotta was acting upon
instructions from others, for, when hard pressed to consent to the alliance, she demanded that
the Neapolitan ambassador should himself say that her father desired her to do so--a statement
which, it seems, the ambassador could not bring himself to make.

Baffled by the persistence of that refusal, Cesare all but returned a bachelor to Italy. So
far, indeed, was his departure a settled matter that in February of 1489, at the Castle of
Loches, he received the king's messages for the Pope. Yet Louis hesitated to let him go without
having bound his Holiness to his own interests by stronger bonds.

In the task of tracing the annals of the Borgias, the honest seeker after truth is compelled
to proceed axe in hand that he may hack himself a way through the tangle of irresponsible or
malicious statements that have grown up about this subject, driving their roots deep into the
soil of history. Not a single chance does malignity, free or chartered, appear to have missed
for the invention of flagitious falsehoods concerning this family, or for the no less flagitious
misinterpretation of known facts.

Amid a mass of written nonsense dealing with Cesare's sojourn in France is the oft-repeated,
totally unproven statement that he withheld from Louis the dispensation enabling the latter
to marry Anne of Brittany, until such time as he should have obtained from Louis all that he
desired of him--in short, that he sold him the dispensation for the highest price he could
extract. The only motive served by this statement is once more to show Alexander and his son
in the perpetration of simoniacal practices, and the statement springs, beyond doubt, from
a passage in Macchiavelli's Extracts from Dispatches to the Ten. Elsewhere has been mentioned
the confusion prevailing in those extracts, and their unreliability as historical evidences.
That circumstance can be now established. The passage in question runs as follows:

"This dispensation was given to Valentinois when he went to France without any one being aware
of its existence, with orders to sell it dearly to the king, and not until satisfied of the
wife and his other desires. And, whilst these things were toward, the king learnt from the
Bishop of Ceuta that the dispensation already existed, and so, without having received or even
seen it the marriage was celebrated, and for revealing this the Bishop of Ceuta was put to
death by order of Valentinois."

Now, to begin with, Macchiavelli admits that what passed between Pope and duke was secret.
How, then, does he pretend to possess these details of it? But, leaving that out of the question,
his statement--so abundantly repeated by later writers--is traversed by every one of the actual
facts of the case.

That there can have been no secret at all about the dispensation is made plain by the fact
that Manfredi, the Ferrarese ambassador, writes of it to Duke Ercole on October 2--the day
after Cesare's departure from Rome. And as for the death of Fernando d'Almeida Bishop of Ceuta,
this did not take place then, nor until two years later (on January 7, 1499) at the siege of
Forli, whither he had gone in Cesare's train--as is related in Bernardi's Chronicles and Bonoli's
history of that town.

To return to the matter of Cesare's imminent departure unwed from France, Louis XII was not
the only monarch to whom this was a source of anxiety. Keener far was the anxiety experienced
on that score by the King of Naples, who feared that its immediate consequence would be to
drive the Holy Father into alliance with Venice, which was paying its court to him at the time
and with that end in view. Eager to conciliate Alexander in this hour of peril, Federigo approached
him with alternative proposals, and offered to invest Cesare in the principalities of Salerno
and Sanseverino, which had been taken from the rebel barons. To this the Pope might have consented,
but that, in the moment of considering it, letters reached him from Cesare which made him pause.

Louis XII had also discovered an alternative to the marriage of Cesare with Carlotta, and one
that should more surely draw the Pope into the alliance with Venice and himself.

Among the ladies of the Court of Queen Anne--Louis had now been wedded a month--there were,
besides Carlotta, two other ladies either of whom might make Cesare a suitable duchess. One
of these was a niece of the king's, the daughter of the Comte de Foix; the other was Charlotte
d'Albret, a daughter of Alain d'Albret, Duc de Guyenne, and sister to the King of Navarre.
Between these two Cesare was now given to choose by Louis, and his choice fell upon Charlotte.

She was seventeen years of age and said to be the most beautiful maid in France, and she had
been reared at the honourable and pious Court of Jeanne de Valois, whence she had passed into
that of Anne of Brittany, which latter, says Hilarion de Coste,(1) was "a school of virtue,
an academy of honour."

  1  Éloges et vies des Reynes, Princesses, etc.

Negotiations for her hand were opened with Alain, who, it is said, was at first unwilling,
but in the end won over to consent. Navarre had need of the friendship of the King of France,
that it might withstand the predatory humours of Castille; and so, for his son's sake, Alain
could not long oppose the wishes of Louis. Considering closely the pecuniary difficulties under
which this Alain d'Albret was labouring and his notorious avarice, one is tempted to conclude
that such difficulties as he may have made were dictated by his reduced circumstances, his
impossibility, or unwillingness, to supply his daughter with a dowry fitting her rank, and
an unworthy desire to drive in the matter the best bargain possible. And this is abundantly
confirmed by the obvious care and hard-headed cunning with which the Sieur d'Albret investigated
Cesare's circumstances and sources of revenue to verify their values to be what was alleged.

Eventually he consented to endow her with 30,000 livres Tournois (90,000 francs) to be paid
as follows: 6,000 livres on the celebration of the marriage, and the balance by annual instalments
of 1,500 livres until cleared off. This sum, as a matter of fact, represented her portion of
the inheritance from her deceased mother, Françoise de Bretagne, and it was tendered subject
to her renouncing all rights and succession in any property of her father's or her said deceased
mother's.

Thus is it set forth in the contract drawn up by Alain at Castel-Jaloux on March 23, 1499,
which contract empowers his son Gabriel and one Regnault de St. Chamans to treat and conclude
the marriage urged by the king between the Duke of Valentinois and Alain's daughter, Charlotte
d'Albret. But that was by no means all. Among other conditions imposed by Alain, he stipulated
that the Pope should endow his daughter with 100,000 livres Tournois, and that for his son,
Amanieu d'Albret, there should be a cardinal's hat--for the fulfilment of both of which conditions
Cesare took it upon himself to engage his father.

On April 15 the treaty between France and Venice was signed at Blois. It was a defensive and
offensive alliance directed against all, with the sole exception of the reigning Pontiff, who
should have the faculty to enter into it if he so elected. This was the first decisive step
against the House of Sforza, and so secretly were the negotiations conducted that Lodovico
Sforza's first intimation of them resulted from the capture in Milanese territory of a courier
from the Pope with letters to Cesare in France. From these he learnt, to his dismay, not only
of the existence of the league, but that the Pope had joined it. The immediate consequence
of this positive assurance that Alexander had gone over to Sforza's enemies was Ascanio Sforza's
hurried departure from Rome on July 13.

In the meantime Cesare's marriage had followed almost immediately upon the conclusion of the
treaty. The nuptials were celebrated on May 12, and on the 19th he received at the hands of
the King of France the knightly Order of St. Michael, which was then the highest honour that
France could confer. When the news of this reached the Pope he celebrated the event in Rome
with public festivities and illuminations.

Of Cesare's courtship we have no information. The fact that the marriage was purely one of
political expediency would tend to make us conceive it as invested with that sordid lovelessness
which must so often attend the marriages of princes. But there exists a little data from which
we may draw certain permissible inferences. This damsel of seventeen was said to be the loveliest
in France, and there is more than a suggestion in Le Feron's De Gestis Regnum Gallorum, that
Cesare was by no means indifferent to her charms. He tells us that the Duke of Valentinois
entered into the marriage very heartily, not only for the sake of its expediency, but for "the
beauty of the lady, which was equalled by her virtues and the sweetness of her nature."

Cesare, we have it on more than one authority, was the handsomest man of his day. The gallantry
of his bearing merited the approval of so fastidious a critic in such matters as Baldassare
Castiglione, who mentions it in his Il Cortigiano. Of his personal charm there is also no lack
of commendation from those who had his acquaintance at this time. Added to this, his Italian
splendour and flamboyance may well have dazzled a maid who had been reared amid the grey and
something stern tones of the Court of Jeanne de Valois.

And so it may well be that they loved, and that they were blessed in their love for the little
space allotted them in each other's company. The sequel justifies in a measure the assumption.
Just one little summer out of the span of their lives--brief though those lives were--did they
spend together, and it is good to find some little evidence that, during that brief season
at least, they inhabited life's rose-garden.

In September--just four short months after the wedding-bells had pealed above them--the trumpets
of war blared out their call to arms. Louis's preparations for the invasion of Milan were complete
and he poured his troops through Piedmont under the command of Giangiacomo Trivulzio.

Cesare was to accompany Louis into Italy. He appointed his seventeen-year-old duchess governor
and administrator of his lands and lordships in France and Dauphiny under a deed dated September
8, and he made her heiress to all his moveable possessions in the event of his death. Surely
this bears some witness, not only to the prevailing of a good understanding between them, but
to his esteem of her and the confidence he reposed in her mental qualities. The rest her later
mourning of him shows.

Thus did Cesare take leave of the young wife whom he was never to see again. Their child--born
in the following spring--he was never to see at all. The pity of it! Ambition-driven, to fulfil
the destiny expected of him, he turned his back upon that pleasant land of Dauphiny where the
one calm little season of his manhood had been spent, where happiness and peace might have
been his lifelong portion had he remained. He set his face towards Italy and the storm and
stress before him, and in the train of King Louis he set out upon the turbulent meteoric course
that was to sear so deep and indelible a brand across the scroll of history.

CHAPTER II. THE KNELL OF THE TYRANTS

In the hour of his need Lodovico Sforza found himself without friends or credit, and he had
to pay the price of the sly, faithless egotistical policy he had so long pursued with profit.

His far-reaching schemes were flung into confusion because a French king had knocked his brow
against a door, and had been succeeded by one who conceived that he had a legal right to the
throne of Milan, and the intent and might to enforce it, be the right legal or not. It was
in vain now that Lodovico turned to the powers of Italy for assistance, in vain that his cunning
set fresh intrigues afoot. His neighbours had found him out long since; he had played fast
and loose with them too often, and there was none would trust him now.

Thus he found himself isolated, and in no case to withstand the French avalanche which rolled
down upon his duchy. The fall of Milan was a matter of days; of resistance there was practically
none. Town after town threw up its gates to the invaders, and Lodovico, seeing himself abandoned
on all sides, sought in flight the safety of his own person.

Cesare took no part in the war, which, after all, was no war--no more than an armed progress.
He was at Lyons with the King, and he did not move into Italy until Louis went to take possession
of his new duchy.

Amid the acclamations of the ever-fickle mob, hailing him as its deliverer, Louis XII rode
triumphantly into Milan on October 6, attended by a little host of princes, including the Prince
of Savoy, the Dukes of Montferrat and Ferrara, and the Marquis of Mantua. But the place of
honour went to Cesare Borgia, who rode at the king's side, a brilliant and arresting figure.
This was the occasion on which Baldassare Castiglione--who was in the Marquis of Mantua's suite--was
moved to such praise of the appearance and gallant bearing of the duke, and of the splendid
equipment of his suite, which outshone those of all that little host of attendant princes.

From this time onward Cesare signs himself "Cesare Borgia of France," and quarters on his shield
the golden lilies of France with the red bull of the House of Borgia.

The conditions on which Alexander VI joined the league of France and Venice became apparent
at about this time. They were to be gathered from the embassy of his nephew, the Cardinal Giovanni
Borgia, to Venice in the middle of September. There the latter announced to the Council of
Ten that the Pope's Holiness aimed at the recovery to the Church of those Romagna tyrannies
which originally were fiefs of the Holy See and held by her vicars, who, however, had long
since repudiated the Pontifical authority, refused the payment of their tributes, and in some
instances had even gone so far as to bear arms against the Church.

With one or two exceptions the violent and evil misgovernment of these turbulent princelings
was a scandal to all Italy. They ruled by rapine and murder, and rendered Romagna little better
than a nest of brigands. Their state of secession from the Holy See arose largely out of the
nepotism practised by the last Popes--a nepotism writers are too prone to overlook when charging
Alexander with the same abuse. Such Popes as Sixtus IV and Innocent VIII had broken up the
States of the Church that they might endow their children and their nephews. The nepotism of
such as these never had any result but to impoverish the Holy See; whilst, on the other hand,
the nepotism of Alexander--this Pope who is held up to obloquy as the archetype of the nepotist--had
a tendency rather to enrich it. It was not to the States of the Church, not by easy ways of
plundering the territories of the Holy See, that he turned to found dominions and dynasties
for his children. He went beyond and outside of them, employing princely alliances as the means
to his ends. Gandia was a duke in Spain; Giuffredo a prince in Naples, and Cesare a duke in
France. For none of these could it be said that territories had been filched from Rome, whilst
the alliances made for them were such as tended to strengthen the power of the Pope, and, therefore,
of the Church.

The reconsolidation of the States of the Church, the recovery of her full temporal power, which
his predecessors had so grievously dissipated, had ever been Alexander's aim; Louis XII afforded
him, at last, his opportunity, since with French aid the thing now might be attempted.

His son Cesare was the Hercules to whom was to be given the labour of cleaning out the Augean
stable of the Romagna.

That Alexander may have been single-minded in his purpose has never been supposed. It might,
indeed, be to suppose too much; and the general assumption that, from the outset, his chief
aim was to found a powerful State for his son may be accepted. But let us at least remember
that such had been the aims of several Popes before him. Sixtus IV and Innocent VIII had similarly
aimed at founding dynasties in Romagna for their families, but, lacking the talents and political
acuteness of Alexander and a son of the mettle and capacity of Cesare Borgia, the feeble trail
of their ambition is apt to escape attention. It is also to be remembered that, whatever Alexander's
ulterior motive, the immediate results of the campaign with which he inspired his son were
to reunite to the Church the States which had fallen away from her, and to re-establish her
temporal sway in the full plenitude of its dominion. However much he may have been imbued with
the desire to exalt and aggrandize his children politically, he did nothing that did not at
the same time make for the greater power and glory of the Church.

His formidable Bull published in October set forth how, after trial, it had been found that
the Lords or Vicars of Rimini, Pesaro, Imola, Forli, Camerino and Faenza, with other feudatories
of the Holy See (including the duchy of Urbino) had never paid the yearly tribute due to the
Church, wherefore he, by virtue of his apostolic authority, deprived them of all their rights,
and did declare them so deprived.

It has been said again and again that this Bull amounting to a declaration of war, was no more
than a pretext to indulge his rapacity; but surely it bears the impress of a real grievance,
and, however blameable the results that followed out of it, for the measure itself there were
just and ample grounds.

The effect of that Bull, issued at a moment when Cesare stood at arms with the might of France
at his back, ready to enforce it, was naturally to throw into a state of wild dismay these
Romagna tyrants whose acquaintance we shall make at closer quarters presently in the course
of following Cesare's campaign. Cesare Borgia may have been something of a wolf; but you are
not to suppose that the Romagna was a fold of lambs.

Giovanni Sforza--Cesare's sometime brother-in­law, and Lord of Pesaro--flies in hot haste to
Venice for protection. There are no lengths to which he will not go to thwart the Borgias in
their purpose, to save his tyranny from falling into the power of this family which he hates
most rabidly, and of which he says that, having robbed him of his honour, it would now deprive
him of his possessions. He even offers to make a gift of his dominions to the Republic.

There was much traders' blood in Venice, and, trader-like, she was avid of possessions. You
can surmise how she must have watered at the mouth to see so fine a morsel cast thus into her
lap, and yet to know that the consumption of it might beget a woeful indigestion. Venice shook
her head regretfully. She could not afford to quarrel with her ally, King Louis, and so she
made answer--a thought contemptuously, it seems--that Giovanni should have made his offer while
he was free to do so.

The Florentines exerted themselves to save Forli from the fate that threatened it. They urged
a league of Bologna, Ferrara, Forli, Piombino, and Siena for their common safety--a proposal
which came to nothing, probably because Ferrara and Siena, not being threatened by the Bull,
saw no reason why, for the sake of others, they should call down upon themselves the wrath
of the Borgias and their mighty allies.

Venice desired to save Faenza, whose tyrant, Manfredi, was also attainted for non-payment of
his tributes, and to this end the Republic sent an embassy to Rome with the moneys due. But
the Holy Father refused the gold, declaring that it was too late for payment.

Forli's attempt to avert the danger was of a different sort, and not exerted until this danger--in
the shape of Cesare himself--stood in arms beneath her walls. Two men, both named Tommaso--though
it does not transpire that they were related--one a chamberlain of the Palace of Forli, the
other a musician, were so devoted to the Countess Sforza-Riario, the grim termagant who ruled
the fiefs of her murdered husband, Girolamo Riario, as to have undertaken an enterprise from
which they cannot have hoped to emerge with their lives. It imported no less than the murder
of the Pope. They were arrested on November 21, and in the possession of one of them was found
a hollow cane containing a letter "so impregnated with poison that even to unfold it would
be dangerous." This letter was destined for the Holy Father.

The story reads like a gross exaggeration emanating from men who, on the subject of poisoning,
display the credulity of the fifteenth century, so ignorant in these matters and so prone to
the fantastic. And our minds receive a shock upon learning that, when put to the question,
these messengers actually made a confession--upon which the story rests--admitting that they
had been sent by the countess to slay the Pope, in the hope that thus Forli might be saved
to the Riarii. At first we conclude that those wretched men, examined to the accompaniment
of torture, confessed whatever was required of them, as so frequently happened in such cases.
Such, indeed, is the very explanation advanced by more than one writer, coupled with the suggestion,
in some instances, that the whole affair was trumped up by the Pope to serve his own ends.

They will believe the wildest and silliest of poisoning stories (such as those of Djem and
Cardinal Giovanni Borgia) which reveal the Borgias as the poisoners; but, let another be accused
and the Borgias be the intended victims, and at once they grow rational, and point out to you
the wildness of the statement, the impossibility of its being true. Yet it is a singular fact
that a thorough investigation of this case of the Countess Sforza-Riario's poisoned letter
reveals it to be neither wild nor impossible but simply diabolical. The explanation of the
matter is to be found in Andrea Bernardi's Chronicles of Forli. He tells us exactly how the
thing was contrived, with a precision of detail which we could wish to see emulated by other
contemporaries of his who so lightly throw out accusations of poisoning. He informs us that
a deadly and infectious disease was rampant in Forli in that year 1499, and that, before dispatching
her letter to the Pope, the Countess caused it to be placed upon the body of one who was sick
of this infection--thus hoping to convey it to his Holiness.(1)

  1  "Dite litre lei le aveva fate tocare et tenere adose ad uno nostro
infetado."--Andrea Bernardi (Cronache di Forli).

Alexander held a thanksgiving service for his escape at Santa Maria della Pace, and Cardinal
Raffaele Riario fled precipitately from Rome, justly fearful of being involved in the papal
anger that must fall upon his house.

By that time, however, Cesare had already taken the field. The support of Louis, conqueror
of Milan, had been obtained, and in this Cardinal Giuliano della Rovere had once more been
helpful to the Borgias.

His reconciliation with the Pope, long since deserved by the services he had rendered the House
of Borgia in forwarding Cesare's aims, as we have seen, was completed now by an alliance which
bound the two families together. His nephew, Francesco della Rovere, had married Alexander's
niece, Angela Borgia.

There is a letter from Giuliano to the Pope, dated October 12, 1499, in which he expresses
his deep gratitude in the matter of this marriage, which naturally redounded to the advantage
of his house, and pledges himself to exert all the influence which he commands with Louis XII
for the purpose of furthering the Duke of Valentinois' wishes. So well does he keep this promise
that we see him utterly abandoning his cousins the Riarii, who were likely to be crushed under
the hoofs of the now charging bull, and devoting himself strenuously to equip Cesare for that
same charge. So far does he go in this matter that he is one of the sureties--the other being
the Cardinal Giovanni Borgia--for the loan of 45,000 ducats raised by Cesare in Milan towards
the cost of his campaign.

This is the moment in which to pause and consider this man, who, because he was a bitter enemy
of Alexander's, and who, because earlier he had covered the Pope with obloquy and insult and
is to do so again later, is hailed as a fine, upright, lofty, independent, noble soul.

Not so fine, upright, or noble but that he can put aside his rancour when he finds that there
is more profit in fawning than in snarling; not so independent but that he can become a sycophant
who writes panegyrics of Cesare and letters breathing devotion to the Pope, once he has realized
that thus his interests will be better served. This is the man, remember, who dubbed Alexander
a Jew and a Moor; this the man who agitated at the Courts of France and Spain for Alexander's
deposition from the Pontificate on the score of the simony of his election; this the man whose
vituperations of the Holy Father are so often quoted, since--coming from lips so honest--they
must, from the very moment that he utters them, be merited. If only the historian would turn
the medal about a little, and allow us a glimpse of the reverse as well as of the obverse,
what a world of trouble and misconceptions should we not be spared!

Della Rovere had discovered vain his work of defamation, vain his attempts to induce the Kings
of France and Spain to summon a General Council and depose the man whose seat he coveted, so
he had sought to make his peace with the Holy See. The death of Charles VIII, and the succession
of a king who had need of the Pope's friendship and who found a friend in Alexander, rendered
it all the more necessary that della Rovere should set himself to reconquer, by every means
in his power, the favour of Alexander.

And so you see this honourable, upright man sacrificing his very family to gain that personal
end. Where now is that stubbornly honest conscience of his which made him denounce Alexander
as no Christian and no Pope? Stifled by self-interest. It is as well that this should be understood,
for this way lies the understanding of many things.

The funds for the campaign being found, Cesare received from Louis three hundred lances captained
by Yves d'Allègre and four thousand foot, composed of Swiss and Gascons, led by the Bailie
of Dijon. Further troops were being assembled for him at Cesena--the one fief of Romagna that
remained faithful to the Church--by Achille Tiberti and Ercole Bentivogli, and to these were
to be added the Pontifical troops that would be sent to him; so that Cesare found himself ultimately
at the head of a considerable army, some ten thousand strong, well-equipped and supported by
good artillery.

Louis XII left Milan on November 7--one month after his triumphal entrance--and set out to
return to France, leaving Trivulzio to represent him as ruler of the Milanese. Two days later
Cesare's army took the road, and he himself went with his horse by way of Piacenza, whilst
the foot, under the Bailie of Dijon, having obtained leave of passage through the territories
of Ferrara and Cremona, followed the Po down to Argenta.

Thus did Cesare Borgia--personally attended by a caesarian guard, wearing his livery--set out
upon the conquest of the Romagna. Perhaps at no period of his career is he more remarkable
than at this moment. To all trades men serve apprenticeships, and to none is the apprenticeship
more gradual and arduous than to the trade of arms. Yet Cesare Borgia served none. Like Minerva,
springing full-grown and armed into existence, so Cesare sprang to generalship in the hour
that saw him made a soldier. This was the first army in which he had ever marched, yet he marched
at the head of it. In his twenty-four years of life he had never so much as witnessed a battle
pitched; yet here was he riding to direct battles and to wrest victories. Boundless audacity
and swiftest intelligence welded into an amazing whole!

CHAPTER III. IMOLA AND FORLI

Between his departure from Milan and his arrival before Imola, where his campaign was to be
inaugurated, Cesare paid a flying visit to Rome and his father, whom he had not seen for a
full year. He remained three days at the Vatican, mostly closeted with the Pope's Holiness.
At the end of that time he went north again to rejoin his army, which by now had been swelled
by the forces that had joined it from Cesena, some Pontifical troops, and a condotta under
Vitellozzo Vitelli.

The latter, who was Lord of Castello, had gone to Milan to seek justice at the hands of Louis
XII against the Florentines, who had beheaded his brother Paolo--deservedly, for treason in
the conduct of the war against Pisa. This Vitellozzo was a valuable and experienced captain.
He took service with Cesare, spurred by the hope of ultimately finding a way to avenge himself
upon the Florentines, and in Cesare's train he now advanced upon Imola and Forli.

The warlike Countess Caterina Sforza-Riario had earlier been granted by her children full administration
of their patrimony during their minority. To the defence of this she now addressed herself
with all the resolution of her stern nature. Her life had been unfortunate, and of horrors
she had touched a surfeit. Her father, Galeazzo Sforza, was murdered in Milan Cathedral by
a little band of patriots; her brother Giangaleazzo had died, of want or poison, in the Castle
of Pavia, the victim of her ambitious uncle, Lodovico; her husband, Girolamo Riario, she had
seen butchered and flung naked from a window of the very castle which she now defended; Giacomo
Feo, whom she had secretly married in second nuptials, was done to death in Forli, under her
very eyes, by a party of insurrectionaries. Him she had terribly avenged. Getting her men-at-arms
together, she had ridden at their head into the quarter inhabited by the murderers, and there
ordered--as Macchiavelli tells us--the massacre of every human being that dwelt in it, women
and children included, whilst she remained at hand to see it done. Thereafter she took a third
husband, in Giovanni di Pierfrancesco de'Medici, who died in 1498. By him this lusty woman
had a son whose name was to ring through Italy as that of one of the most illustrious captains
of his day--Giovanni delle Bande Nere.

Such was the woman whom Sanuto has called "great-souled, but a most cruel virago," who now
shut herself into her castle to defy the Borgia.

She had begun by answering the Pope's Bull of attainder with the statement that, far from owing
the Holy See the tribute which it claimed, the Holy See was actually in her debt, her husband,
Count Girolamo Riario, having been a creditor of the Church for the provisions made by him
in his office of Captain-General of the Pontifical forces. This subterfuge, however, had not
weighed with Alexander, whereupon, having also been frustrated in her attempt upon the life
of the Pope's Holiness, she had proceeded to measures of martial resistance. Her children and
her treasures she had dispatched to Florence that they might be out of danger, retaining of
the former only her son Ottaviano, a young man of some twenty years; but, for all that she
kept him near her, it is plain that she did not account him worthy of being entrusted with
the defence of his tyranny, for it was she, herself, the daughter of the bellicose race of
Sforza, who set about the organizing of this.

Disposing of forces that were entirely inadequate to take the field against the invader, she
entrenched herself in her fortress of Forli, provisioning it to withstand a protracted siege
and proceeding to fortify it by throwing up outworks and causing all the gates but one to be
built up.

Whilst herself engaged upon military measures she sent her son Ottaviano to Imola to exhort
the Council to loyalty and the defence of the city. But his mission met with no success. Labouring
against him was a mighty factor which in other future cases was to facilitate Cesare's subjection
of the Romagna. The Riarii--in common with so many other of the Romagna tyrants--had so abused
their rule, so ground the people with taxation, so offended them by violence, and provoked
such deep and bitter enmity that in this hour of their need they found themselves deservedly
abandoned by their subjects. The latter were become eager to try a change of rulers, in the
hope of finding thus an improved condition of things; a worse, they were convinced, would be
impossible.

So detested were the Riarii and so abhorred the memory they left behind them in Imola that
for years afterwards the name of Cesare Borgia was blessed there as that of a minister of divine
justice ("tanquam minister divina justitiae") who had lifted from them the harsh yoke by which
they had been oppressed.

And so it came to pass that, before ever Cesare had come in sight of Imola, he was met by several
of its gentlemen who came to offer him the town, and he received a letter from the pedagogue
Flaminio with assurances that, if it should be at all possible to them, the inhabitants would
throw open the gates to him on his approach. And Flaminio proceeded to implore the duke that
should he, nevertheless, be constrained to have recourse to arms to win admittance, he should
not blame the citizens nor do violence to the city by putting it to pillage, assuring him that
he would never have a more faithful, loving city than Imola once this should be in his power.

The duke immediately sent forward Achille Tiberti with a squadron of horse to demand the surrender
of the town. And the captain of the garrison of Imola replied that he was ready to capitulate,
since that was the will of the people. Three days later--on November 27--Cesare rode in as
conqueror.

The example of the town, however, was not followed by the citadel. Under the command of Dionigio
di Naldo the latter held out, and, as the duke's army made its entrance into Imola, the castellan
signified his resentment by turning his cannon upon the town itself, with such resolute purpose
that many houses were set on fire and demolished. This Naldo was one of the best reputed captains
of foot of his day, and he had seen much service under the Sforza; but his experience could
avail him little here.

On the 28th Cesare opened the attack, training his guns upon the citadel; but it was not until
a week later that, having found a weak spot in the walls on the side commanding the town, he
opened a breach through which his men were able to force a passage, and so possess themselves
of a half-moon. Seeing the enemy practically within his outworks, and being himself severely
wounded in the head, Naldo accounted it time to parley. He begged a three-days' armistice,
pledging himself to surrender at the end of that time should he not receive reinforcements
in the meanwhile; and to this arrangement the duke consented.

The good faith of Naldo has been questioned, and it has been suggested that his asking for
three days' grace was no better than a cloak to cover his treacherous sale of the fortress
to the besieger. It seems, however, to be no more than one of those lightly-uttered, irresponsible
utterances with which the chronicles of the time abound, for Naldo had left his wife and children
at Forli in the hands of the Countess, as hostages for his good faith, and this renders improbable
the unsupported story of his baseness.

On December 7, no reinforcements having reached him, Naldo made formal surrender of the citadel,
safe-conduct having been granted to his garrison.

A week later there arrived at Imola Cesare's cousin, the Cardinal Giovanni Borgia, whom the
Pope had constituted legate in Bologna and the Romagna in place of the Cardinal Ascanio Sforza,
and whom he had sent to support Cesare's operations with ecclesiastical authority. Cardinal
Giovanni, as the Pope's representative, received in the Church of San Domenico the oath of
fealty of the city to the Holy See. This was pledged by four representative members of the
Council of Thirty; and by that act the conquest and subjection of the town became a fully accomplished
fact.

The lesser strongholds of the territory threw up their gates one by one before the advancing
enemy, until only Forli remained to be taken. Cesare pushed forward to reduce it.

On his way he passed through Faenza, whose tyrant, Manfredi, deeming himself secure in the
protection of Venice and in view of the circumstance that the republic had sent to Rome the
arrears of tribute due from his fief, and anxious to conciliate the Pope, received and entertained
Cesare very cordially.

At Forli the case of Imola was practically repeated. Notwithstanding that the inhabitants were
under the immediate eye of the formidable countess, and although she sent her brother, Alessandro
Sforza, to exhort the people and the Council to stand by her, the latter, weary as the rest
of the oppressive tyranny of her family, dispatched their representatives to Cesare to offer
him the town.

The Countess's valour was of the sort that waxes as the straits become more desperate. Since
the town abandoned and betrayed her, she would depend upon her citadel, and by a stubborn resistance
make Cesare pay as dearly as possible for the place. To the danger which she seems almost eager
to incur for her own part, this strong-minded, comely matron will not subject the son she has
kept beside her until now; and so she packs Ottaviano off to Florence and safety. That done,
she gives her mutinous subjects a taste of her anger by attempting to seize half a dozen of
the principal citizens of Forli. As it happened, not only did this intent miscarry, but it
went near being the means of involving her in battle even before the duke's arrival; for the
people, getting wind of the affair, took up arms to defend their threatened fellow-citizens.

She consoled herself, however, by seizing the persons of Nicolo Tornielli and Lodovico Ercolani,
whom the Council had sent to inform her that their representatives had gone to Cesare with
the offer of the town. Further, to vent her rage and signify her humour, she turned her cannon
upon the Communal Palace and shattered the tower of it.

Meanwhile Cesare advanced. It was again Tiberti who now rode forward with his horse to demand
the surrender of Forli. This was accorded as readily as had been that of Imola, whereupon Cesare
came up to take possession in person; but, despite the cordial invitation of the councillors,
he refused to enter the gates until he had signed the articles of capitulation.

On December 19, under a deluge of rain, Cesare, in full armour, the banner of the Church borne
ahead of him, rode into Forli with his troops. He was housed in the palace of Count Luffo Nomaglie
(one of the gentlemen whom Caterina had hoped to capture), and his men were quartered through
the town. These foreign soldiers of his seem to have got a little out of hand here at Forli,
and they committed a good many abuses, to the dismay and discomfort of the Citizens.

Sanuto comments upon this with satisfaction, accounting the city well served for having yielded
herself up like a strumpet. It is a comment more picturesque than just, for obviously Forli
did not surrender through pusillanimity, but to the end that it might be delivered from the
detestable rule of the Riarii.

The city occupied, it now remained to reduce the fortress and bring its warrior-mistress to
terms. Cesare set about this at once, nor allowed the Christmas festivities to interfere with
his labours, but kept his men at work to bring the siege-guns into position. On Christmas Day
the countess belatedly attempted a feeble ruse in the hope of intimidating them. She flew from
her battlements a banner, bearing the device of the lion of St. Mark, thinking to trick Cesare
into the belief that she had obtained the protection of Venice, or, perhaps, signifying thus
that she threw herself into the arms of the republic, making surrender of her fiefs to the
Venetians to the end that she might spite a force which she could not long withstand--as Giovanni
Sforza had sought to do.

But Cesare, nowise disturbed by that banner, pursued his preparations, which included the mounting
of seven cannons and ten falconets in the square before the Church of St. John the Baptist.
When all was ready for the bombardment, he made an effort to cause her to realize the hopelessness
of her resistance and the vain sacrifice of life it must entail. He may have been moved to
this by the valour she displayed, or it may have been that he obeyed the instincts of generalship
which made him ever miserly in the matter of the lives of his soldiers. Be that as it may,
with intent to bring her to a reasonable view of the situation, he rode twice to the very edge
of the ditch to parley with her; but all that came of his endeavours was that on the occasion
of his second appeal to her, he had a narrow escape of falling a victim to her treachery, and
so losing his life.

She came down from the ramparts, and, ordering the lowering of the bridge, invited him to meet
her upon it that there they might confer more at their ease, having, meanwhile, instructed
her castellan to raise the bridge again the moment the duke should set foot upon it. The castellan
took her instructions too literally, for even as the duke did set one foot upon it there was
a grind and clank of machinery, and the great structure swung up and clattered into place.
The duke remained outside, saved by a too great eagerness on the part of those who worked the
winches, for had they waited but a second longer they must have trapped him.

Cesare returned angry to Forli, and set a price upon Caterina's head--20,000 ducats if taken
alive, 10,000 if dead; and on the morrow he opened fire. For a fortnight this was continued
without visible result, and daily the countess was to be seen upon the walls with her castellan,
directing the defences. But on January 12, Cesare's cannon having been concentrated upon one
point, a breach was opened at last. Instantly the waiting citizens, who had been recruited
for the purpose, made forward with their faggots, heaping them up in the moat until a passage
was practicable. Over this went Cesare's soldiers to force an entrance.

A stubborn fight ensued within the ravelin, where the duke's men were held in check by the
defenders, and not until some four hundred corpses choked that narrow space did the besieged
give ground before them.

Like most of the Italian fortresses of the period, the castle of Forli consisted of a citadel
within a citadel. In the heart of the main fabric--but cut off from it again by its own moat--arose
the great tower known as the Maschio. This was ever the last retreat of the besieged when the
fortress itself had been carried by assault, and, in the case of the Maschio of the Citadel
of Forli, so stout was its construction that it was held to be practically invulnerable.

Had the countess's soldiers made their retreat in good order to this tower, where all the munitions
and provisions were stored, Cesare would have found the siege but in the beginning; but in
the confusion of that grim hour, besieged and besiegers, Borgian and Riarian, swept forward
interlocked, a writhing, hacking, bleeding mob of men-at-arms. Thus they flung themselves in
a body across the bridge that spanned the inner moat, and so into the Maschio, whilst the stream
of Cesare's soldiers that poured uninterruptedly across in the immediate wake of that battling
mass rendered it impossible for the defenders to take up the bridge.

Within the tower the carnage went on, and the duke's men hacked their way through what remained
of the Forlivese until they had made themselves masters of that inner stronghold whither Caterina
had sought her last refuge.

A Burgundian serving under the Bailie of Dijon was the first to come upon her in the room to
which she had fled with a few attendants and a handful of men, amongst whom were Alessandro
Sforza, Paolo Riario, and Scipione Riario--this last an illegitimate son of her first husband's,
whom she had adopted. The Burgundian declared her his prisoner, and held her for the price
that had been set upon her head until the arrival of Cesare, who entered the citadel with his
officers a little while after the final assault had been delivered.

Cesare received and treated her with the greatest courtesy, and, seeing her for the moment
destitute, he presented her with a purse containing two hundred ducats for her immediate needs.
Under his escort she left the castle, and was conducted, with her few remaining servants, to
the Nomaglie Palace to remain in the Duke's care, his prisoner. Her brother and the other members
of her family found with her were similarly made prisoners.

After her departure the citadel was given over to pillage, and all hell must have raged in
it if we may judge from an incident related by Bernardi in his chronicles. A young clerk, named
Evangelista da Monsignane, being seized by a Burgundian soldier who asked him if he had any
money, produced and surrendered a purse containing thirteen ducats, and so got out of the mercenaries'
clutches, but only to fall into the hands of others, one of whom again declared him a prisoner.
The poor youth, terrified at the violence about him, and eager to be gone from that shambles,
cried out that, if they would let him go, he would pay them a ransom of a hundred ducats.

Thereupon "Surrender to me!" cried one of the soldiers, and, as the clerk was about to do so,
another, equally greedy for the ransom, thrust himself forward. "No. Surrender to me, rather,"
demanded this one.

The first insisted that the youth was his prisoner, whereupon the second brandished his sword,
threatening to kill Evangelista. The clerk, in a panic, flung himself into the arms of a monk
who was with him, crying out for mercy, and there in the monk's arms he was brutally slain,
"to put an end," said his murderer, "to the dispute."

Forlimpopoli surrendered a few days later to Yves d'Allègre, whom Cesare had sent thither,
whilst in Forli, as soon as he had reduced the citadel, and before even attempting to repair
the damage done, the duke set about establishing order and providing for the dispensation of
justice, exerting to that end the rare administrative ability which not even his bitterest
detractors have denied him.

He sent a castellan to Forlimpopoli and fetched from Imola a Podestà for Forli.(1) He confirmed
the Council of Forty that ruled Forli--being ten for each quarter of the city--and generally
made sound and wise provision for the town's well-being, which we shall presently see bearing
fruit.

  1  It was customary throughout Italy that the Podestà, or chief
magistrate, should never be a native of the town--rarely of the
State--in which he held his office. Thus, having no local interests or
relationships, he was the likelier to dispense justice with desirable
single-mindedness.

Next the repairing of the fortress claimed his attention, and he disposed for this, entrusting
the execution of his instructions to Ramiro de Lorqua, whom he left behind as governor. In
the place where the breach was opened by his cannon he ordered the placing of a marble panel
bearing his arms; and there it is to be seen to this day: Dexter, the sable bars of the House
of Lenzol; Sinister, the Borgia bull in chief, and the lilies of France; and, superimposed,
an inescutcheon bearing the Pontifical arms.

All measures being taken so far as Forli was concerned, Cesare turned his attention to Pesaro,
and prepared to invade it. Before leaving, however, he awaited the return of his absent cousin,
the Cardinal Giovanni Borgia, who, as papal legate, was to receive the oath of fealty of the
town; but, instead of the cardinal whom he was expecting, came a messenger with news of his
death of fever at Fossombrone.

Giovanni Borgia had left Forli on December 28 to go to Cesena, with intent, it was said, to
recruit to his cousin's army those men of Rimini, who, exiled and in rebellion against their
tyrant Malatesta, had sought shelter in that Pontifical fief. Thence he had moved on to Urbino,
where--in the ducal palace--he awaited news of the fall of Forli, and where, whilst waiting,
he fell ill. Nevertheless, when the tidings of Cesare's victory reached him, he insisted upon
getting to horse, to repair to Forli; but, discovering himself too ill to keep the saddle,
he was forced to abandon the journey at Fossombrone, whilst the outcome of the attempt was
an aggravation of the fever resulting in the cardinal's death.

Cesare appears to have been deeply grieved by the loss of Giovanni, and there is every cause
to suppose that a sincere attachment prevailed between the cousins. Yet Cesare has been charged
with his death, and accused of having poisoned him, and, amidst the host of silly, baseless
accusations levelled against Cesare, you shall find none more silly or baseless than this.
In other instances of unproven crimes with which he has been charged there may be some vestiges
of matter that may do duty for evidence or be construed into motives; here there is none that
will serve one purpose or the other, and the appalling and rabid unscrupulousness, the relentless
malice of Borgian chroniclers is in nothing so completely apparent as in this accusation.

Sanuto mentions the advices received, and the rumours which say that Cesare murdered him through
jealousy, knowing him beloved by the Pope, seeing him a legate, and fearing that he might come
to be given the governorship of some Romagna fief.

When Gandia died and Cesare was accused of having murdered him, the motive advanced was that
Cesare, a papal legate, resented a brother who was a duke. Now, Cesare, being a duke, resents
a cousin's being a papal legate. You will observe that, if this method of discovering motives
is pursued a little further, there is no man who died in Cesare's life-time whom Cesare could
not be shown to have had motives for murdering.

Sillier even than Sanuto's is the motive with which Giovio attempts to bolster up the accusation
which he reports: "He [Cesare] poisoned him because he [Giovanni] favoured the Duke of Gandia."

That, apparently, was the best that Giovio could think of. It is hardly intelligible--which
is perhaps inevitable, for it is not easy to be intelligible when you don't quite know, yourself,
what you mean, which must have been Giovio's case.

The whole charge is so utterly foolish, stupid, and malicious that it would scarcely be worth
mentioning, were it not that so many modern writers have included this among the Borgia crimes.
As a matter of fact--and as a comparison of the above-cited dates will show--eighteen days
had elapsed between Giovanni Borgia's leaving Cesare at Forli and his succumbing at Urbino--which
in itself disposes of the matter. It may be mentioned that this is a circumstance which those
foolish or deliberately malicious calumniators either did not trouble to ascertain or else
thought it wiser to slur over. Although, had they been pressed, there was always the death
of Djem to be cited and the fiction of the slow-working poison specially invented to meet and
explain his case.

The preparations for the invasion of Pesaro were complete, and it was determined that on January
22 the army should march out of Forli; but on the night of the 21st a disturbance occurred.
The Swiss under the Bailie of Dijon became mutinous--they appear throughout to have been an
ill-conditioned lot--and they clamoured now for higher pay if they were to go on to Pesaro,
urging that already they had served the Duke of Valentinois as far as they had pledged themselves
to the King of France.

Towards the third hour of the night the Bailie himself, with these mutineers at his heels,
presented himself at the Nomaglie Palace to demand that the Countess Sforza-Riario should be
delivered into his hands. His claim was that she was his prisoner, since she had been arrested
by a soldier of his own, and that her surrender was to France, to which he added--a thought
inconsequently, it seems--that the French law forbade that women should be made prisoners.
Valentinois, taken utterly by surprise, and without the force at hand to resist the Bailie
and his Swiss, was compelled to submit and to allow the latter to carry the countess off to
his own lodging; but he dispatched a messenger to Forlimpopoli with orders for the immediate
return of Allègre and his horse, and in the morning, after Mass, he had the army drawn up in
the market-place; and so, backed by his Spanish, French, and Italian troops, he faced the threatening
Swiss.

The citizens were in a panic, expecting to see battle blaze out at any moment, and apprehensive
of the consequences that might ensue for the town.

The Swiss had grown more mutinous than ever overnight, and they now refused to march until
they were paid. It was Cesare's to quell and restore them to obedience. He informed them that
they should be paid when they reached Cesena, and that, if they were retained thereafter in
his employ, their pay should be on the improved scale which they demanded. Beyond that he made
no concessions. The remainder of his harangue was matter to cow them into submission, for he
threatened to order the ringing of the alarm-bells, and to have them cut to pieces by the people
of Forli whom their gross and predatory habits had already deeply offended.

Order was at last restored, and the Bailie of Dijon was compelled to surrender back the countess
to Cesare. But their departure was postponed until the morrow. On that day, January 23, after
receiving the oath of fealty from the Anziani in the Church of San Mercuriale, the duke marched
his army out of Forli and took the road to Pesaro.

Caterina Sforza Riario went with him. Dressed in black and mounted upon a white horse, the
handsome amazon rode between Cesare Borgia and Yves d'Allègre.

At Cesena the duke made a halt, and there he left the countess in the charge of d'Allègre whilst
he himself rode forward to overtake the main body of his army, which was already as far south
as Cattolica. As for Giovanni Sforza, despite the fact that the Duke of Urbino had sent some
foot to support him, he was far more likely to run than to fight, and in fact he had already
taken the precaution of placing his money and valuables in safety and was disposing, himself,
to follow them. But it happened that there was not yet the need. Fate--in the shape of his
cousin Lodovico of Milan--postponed the occasion.

On the 26th Cesare lay at Montefiori, and there he was reached by couriers sent at all speed
from Milan by Trivulzio. Lodovico Sforza had raised an army of Swiss and German mercenaries
to reconquer his dominions, and the Milanese were opening their arms to receive him back, having
already discovered that, in exchanging his rule for that of the French, they had but exchanged
King Log for King Stork. Trivulzio begged for the instant return of the French troops serving
under Cesare, and Cesare, naturally compelled to accede, was forced to postpone the continuance
of his campaign, a matter which must have been not a little vexatious at such a moment.

He returned to Cesena, where, on the 27th, he dismissed Yves d'Allègre and his men, who made
all haste back to Milan, so that Cesare was left with a force of not more than a thousand foot
and five hundred horse. These, no doubt, would have sufficed him for the conquest of Pesaro,
but Giovanni Sforza, encouraged by his cousin's return, and hopeful now of assistance, would
certainly entrench himself and submit to a siege which must of necessity be long-drawn, since
the departure of the French had deprived Cesare of his artillery.

Therefore the duke disposed matters for his return to Rome instead, and, leaving Ercole Bentivogli
with five hundred horse and Gonsalvo de Mirafuente with three hundred foot to garrison Forli,
he left Cesena with the remainder of his forces, including Vitelli's horse, on January 30.
With him went Caterina Sforza-Riario, and of course there were not wanting those who alleged
that, during the few days at Cesena he had carried his conquest of her further than the matter
of her territories(1)--a rumour whose parent was, no doubt, the ribald jest made in Milan by
Trivulzio when he heard of her capture.

  1  "Teneva detta Madona (la qual é belissima dona, fiola del Ducha
Galeazo di Milan) di zorno e di note in la sna camera, con la
quale--judicio omnium--si deva piacer" (Sanuto's Diarii).

He conducted her to Rome--in golden chains, "like another Palmyra," it is said--and there she
was given the beautiful Belvedere for her prison until she attempted an escape in the following
June; whereupon, for greater safety, she was transferred to the Castle of Sant' Angelo. There
she remained until May of 1501, when, by the intervention of the King of France, she was set
at liberty and permitted to withdraw to Florence to rejoin her children. In the city of the
lilies she abode, devoting herself to good works until she ended her turbulent, unhappy life
in 1509.

The circumstance that she was not made to pay with her life for her attempt to poison the Pope
is surely something in favour of the Borgias, and it goes some way towards refuting the endless
statements of their fierce and vindictive cruelty. Of course, it has been urged that they spared
her from fear of France; but, if that is admitted, what then becomes of the theory of that
secret poison which might so well have been employed in such a case as this?

CHAPTER IV. GONFALONIER OF THE CHURCH

Although Cesare Borgia's conquest of Imola and Forli cannot seriously be accounted extraordinary
military achievements--save by consideration of the act that this was the first campaign he
had conducted--yet in Rome the excitement caused by his victory was enormous. Possibly this
is to be assigned to the compelling quality of the man's personality, which was beginning to
manifest and assert itself and to issue from the shadow into which it had been cast hitherto
by that of his stupendous father.

The enthusiasm mounted higher and higher whilst preparations were being made for his reception,
and reached its climax on February 26, when, with overpowering pomp, he made an entrance into
Rome that was a veritable triumph.

Sanuto tells us that, as news came of his approach, the Pope, in his joyous impatience and
excitement, became unable to discharge the business of his office, and no longer would give
audience to any one. Alexander had ever shown himself the fondest of fathers to his children,
and now he overflowed with pride in this son who already gave such excellent signs of his capacity
as a condottiero, and justified his having put off the cassock to strap a soldier's harness
to his lithe and comely body.

Cardinals Farnese and Borgia, with an imposing suite, rode out some way beyond the gates of
Santa Maria del Popolo to meet the duke. At the gate itself a magnificent reception had been
prepared him, and the entire Pontifical Court, prelates, priests, ambassadors of the Powers,
and officials of the city and curia down to the apostolic abbreviators and secretaries, waited
to receive him.

It was towards evening--between the twenty-second and the twenty-third hours--when he made
his entrance. In the van went the baggage-carts, and behind these marched a thousand foot in
full campaign apparel, headed by two heralds in the duke's livery and one in the livery of
the King of France. Next came Vitellozzo's horse followed by fifty mounted gentlemen-at-arms--the
duke's Caesarean guard--immediately preceding Cesare himself.

The handsome young duke--"bello e biondo"--was splendidly mounted, but very plainly dressed
in black velvet with a simple gold chain for only ornament, and he had about him a hundred
guards on foot, also in black velvet, halbert on shoulder, and a posse of trumpeters in a livery
that displayed his arms. In immediate attendance upon him came several cardinals on their mules,
and behind these followed the ambassadors of the Powers, Cesare's brother Giuffredo Borgia,
and Alfonso of Aragon, Duke of Biselli and Prince of Salerno--Lucrezia's husband and the father
of her boy Roderigo, born some three months earlier. Conspicuous, too, in Cesare's train would
be the imposing figure of the formidable Countess Sforza-Riario, in black upon her white horse,
riding in her golden shackles between her two attendant women.

As the procession reached the Bridge of Sant' Angelo a salute was thundered forth by the guns
from the castle, where floated the banners of Cesare and of the Church. The press of people
from the Porta del Popolo all the way to the Vatican was enormous. It was the year of the Papal
Jubilee, and the city was thronged, with pilgrims from all quarters of Europe who had flocked
to Rome to obtain the plenary indulgence offered by the Pope. So great was the concourse on
this occasion that the procession had the greatest difficulty in moving forward, and the progress
through the streets, packed with shouting multitudes, was of necessity slow. At last, however,
the Bridge of Sant' Angelo being crossed, the procession pushed on to the Vatican along the
new road inaugurated for the Jubilee by Alexander in the previous December.

From the loggia above the portals of the Vatican the Pope watched his son's imposing approach,
and when the latter dismounted at the steps his Holiness, with his five attendant cardinals,
descended to the Chamber of the Papagallo--the papal audience­chamber, contiguous to the Borgia
apartments--to receive the duke. Thither sped Cesare with his multitude of attendants, and
at sight of him now the Pope's eyes were filled with tears of joy. The duke advanced gravely
to the foot of the throne, where he fell upon his knees, and was overheard by Burchard to express
to his father, in their native Spanish, all that he owed to the Pope's Holiness, to which Alexander
replied in the same tongue. Then Cesare stooped and kissed the Pope's feet and then his hand,
whereupon Alexander, conquered no doubt by the paternal instincts of affection that were so
strong in him, raised his son and took him fondly in his arms.

The festivities in honour of Cesare's return were renewed in Rome upon the morrow, and to this
the circumstance that the season was that of carnival undoubtedly contributed and lent the
displays a threatrical character which might otherwise have been absent. In these the duke's
victories were made the subject of illustration. There was a procession of great chariots in
Piazza Navona, with groups symbolizing the triumphs of the ancient Caesar, in the arrangement
of which, no doubt, the assistance had been enlisted of that posse of valiant artists who were
then flocking to Rome and the pontifical Court.

Yriarte, mixing his facts throughout with a liberal leaven of fiction, tells us that "this
is the precise moment in which Cesare Borgia, fixing his eyes upon the Roman Caesar, takes
him definitely for his model and adopts the device 'Aut Caesar, aut nihil.'"

Cesare Borgia never adopted that device, and never displayed it. In connection with him it
is only to be found upon the sword of honour made for him when, while still a cardinal, he
went to crown the King of Naples. It is not at all unlikely that the inscription of the device
upon that sword--which throughout is engraved with illustrations of the career of Julius Caesar--may
have been the conceit of the sword-maker as a rather obvious play upon Cesare's name.(1) Undoubtedly,
were the device of Cesare's own adoption we should find it elsewhere, and nowhere else is it
to be found.

  1  The scabbard of this sword is to be seen in the South Kensington
Museum; the sword itself is in the possession of the Caetani family.

Shortly after Cesare's return to Rome, Imola and Forli sent their ambassadors to the Vatican
to beseech his Holiness to sign the articles which those cities had drawn up and by virtue
of which they created Cesare their lord in the place of the deposed Riarii.

It is quite true that Alexander had announced that, in promoting the Romagna campaign, he had
for object to restore to the Church the States which had rebelliously seceded from her. Yet
there is not sufficient reason to suppose that he was flagrantly breaking his word in acceding
to the request of which those ambassadors were the bearers and in creating his son Count of
Imola and Forli. Admitted that this was to Cesare's benefit and advancement, it is still to
be remembered that those fiefs must be governed for the Church by a Vicar, as had ever been
the case.

That being so, who could have been preferred to Cesare for the dignity, seeing that not only
was the expulsion of the tyrants his work, but that the inhabitants themselves desired him
for their lord? For the rest, granted his exceptional qualifications, it is to be remembered
that the Pope was his father, and--setting aside the guilt and scandal of that paternity--it
is hardly reasonable to expect a father to prefer some other to his son for a stewardship for
which none is so well equipped as that same son. That Imola and Forli were not free gifts to
Cesare, detached, for the purpose of so making them, from the Holy See, is clear from the title
of Vicar with which Cesare assumed control of them, as set forth in the Bull of investiture.

In addition to his receiving the rank of Vicar and Count of Imola and Forli, it was in this
same month of March at last--and after Cesare may be said to have earned it--that he received
the Gonfalon of the Church. With the unanimous concurrence of the Sacred College, the Pope
officially appointed him Captain-General of the Pontifical forces--the coveting of which position
was urged, it will be remembered, as one of his motives for his alleged murder of the Duke
of Gandia three years earlier.

On March 29 Cesare comes to St. Peter's to receive his new dignity and the further honour of
the Golden Rose which the Pope is to bestow upon him--the symbol of the Church Militant and
the Church Triumphant.

Having blessed the Rose, the Pope is borne solemnly into St. Peter's, preceded by the College
of Cardinals. Arrived before the High Altar, he puts off his tiara--the conical, richly jewelled
cap, woven from the plumage of white peacocks--and bareheaded kneels to pray; whereafter he
confesses himself to the Cardinal of Benevento, who was the celebrant on this occasion. That
done, he ascends and takes his seat upon the Pontifical Throne, whither come the cardinals
to adore him, while the organ peals forth and the choir gives voice. Last of all comes Cesare,
dressed in cloth of gold with ermine border, to kneel upon the topmost step of the throne,
whereupon the Pope, removing his tiara and delivering it to the attendant Cardinal of San Clemente,
pronounces the beautiful prayer of the investiture. That ended, the Pope receives from the
hands of the Cardinal of San Clemente the splendid mantle of gonfalonier, and sets it about
the duke's shoulders with the prescribed words: "May the Lord array thee in the garment of
salvation and surround thee with the cloak of happiness." Next he takes from the hands of the
Master of the Ceremonies--that same Burchard whose diary supplies us with these details--the
gonfalonier's cap of scarlet and ermine richly decked with pearls and surmounted by a dove--the
emblem of the Holy Spirit--likewise wrought in pearls. This he places upon Cesare's auburn
head; whereafter, once more putting off his tiara, he utters the prescribed prayer over the
kneeling duke.

That done, and the Holy Father resuming his seat and his tiara, Cesare stoops to kiss the Pope's
feet, then rising, goes in his gonfalonier apparel, the cap upon his head, to take his place
among the cardinals. The organ crashes forth again; the choir intones the "Introito ad altare
Deum"; the celebrant ascends the altar, and, having offered incense, descends again and the
Mass begins.

The Mass being over, and the celebrant having doffed his sacred vestments and rejoined his
brother cardinals, the Cardinal of San Clemente repairs once more to the Papal Throne, preceded
by two chamberlains who carry two folded banners, one bearing the Pope's personal arms, the
other the arms of Holy Church. Behind the cardinal follows an acolyte with the censer and incense-boat
and another with the holy water and the aspersorio, and behind these again two prelates with
a Missal and a candle. The Pope rises, blesses the folded banners and incenses them, having
received the censer from the hands of a priest who has prepared it. Then, as he resumes his
seat, Cesare steps forward once more, and, kneeling, places both hands upon the Missal and
pronounces in a loud, clear voice the words of the oath of fealty to St. Peter and the Pope,
swearing ever to protect the latter and his successors from harm to life, limb, or possessions.
Thereafter the Pope takes the blessed banners and gives the charge of them to Cesare, delivering
into his hands the white truncheon symbolic of his office, whilst the Master of Ceremonies
hands the actual banners to the two deputies, who in full armour have followed to receive them,
and who attach them to the lances provided for the purpose.

The investiture is followed by the bestowal of the Golden Rose, whereafter Cesare, having again
kissed the Pope's feet and the Ring of the Fisherman on his finger, has the cap of office replaced
upon his head by Burchard himself, and so the ceremonial ends.

The Bishop of Isernia was going to Cesena to assume the governorship of that Pontifical fief,
and, profiting by this, Cesare appointed him his lieutenant-general in Romagna, with authority
over all his other officers there and full judicial powers. Further, he desired him to act
as his deputy and receive the oath of fealty of the duke's new subjects.

Meanwhile, Cesare abode in Rome, no doubt impatient of the interruption which his campaign
had suffered, and which it seemed must continue yet awhile. Lodovico Sforza had succeeded in
driving the French out of his dominions as easily as he, himself, had been driven out by them
a few months earlier. But Louis XII sent down a fresh army under La Trémouille, and Lodovico,
basely betrayed by his Swiss mercenaries at Novara in April, was taken prisoner.

That was the definite end of the Sforza rule in Milan. For ten years the crafty, scheming Lodovico
was left to languish a prisoner in the Castle of Loches, at the end of which time he miserably
died.

Immediately upon the return of the French to Milan, the Pope asked for troops that Cesare might
resume his enterprise not only against Pesaro, Faenza, and Rimini, but also against Bologna,
where Giovanni Bentivogli had failed to support--as in duty bound--the King of France against
Lodovico Sforza. But Bentivogli repurchased the forfeited French protection at the price of
40,000 ducats, and so escaped the impending danger; whilst Venice, it happened, was growing
concerned to see no profit accruing to herself out of this league with France and Rome; and
that was a matter which her trader spirit could not brook. Therefore, Venice intervened in
the matter of Rimini and Faenza, which she protected in somewhat the same spirit as the dog
protected the straw in the manger. Next, when, having conquered the Milanese, Louis XII turned
his thoughts to the conquest of Naples, and called upon Venice to march with him as became
a good ally, the Republic made it quite clear that she was not disposed to move unless there
was to be some profit to herself. She pointed out that Mantua and Ferrara were in the same
case as Bologna, for having failed to lend assistance to the French in the hour of need, and
proposed to Louis XII the conquest and division of those territories.

Thus matters stood, and Cesare had perforce to await the conclusion of the Pisan War in which
the French were engaged, confident, however, that, once that was at an end, Louis, in his anxiety
to maintain friendly relations with the Pope, would be able to induce Venice to withdraw her
protection from Rimini and Faenza. So much accomplished for him, he was now in a position to
do the rest without the aid of French troops if necessary. The Jubilee--protracted for a further
year, so vast and continuous was the concourse of the faithful, 200,000 of whom knelt in the
square before St. Peter's on Easter Day to receive the Pope's blessing--was pouring vast sums
of money into the pontifical coffers, and for money men were to be had in plenty by a young
condottiero whose fame had been spreading ever since his return from the Romagna. He was now
the hope of the soldiers of fortune who abounded in Italy, attracted thither from all quarters
by the continual opportunities for employment which that tumultuous land afforded.

It is in speaking of him at about this time, and again praising his personal beauty and fine
appearance, that Capello says of him that, if he lives, he will be one of Italy's greatest
captains.

Such glimpses as in the pages of contemporary records we are allowed of Cesare during that
crowded time of the Papal Jubilee are slight and fleeting. On April 13 we see him on horseback
accompanying the Pope through Rome in the cavalcade that visited the four Basilicas to win
the indulgence offered, and, as usual, he is attended by his hundred armed grooms in black.

On another occasion we behold him very differently engaged--giving an exhibition of his superb
physical gifts, his strength, his courage, and his matchless address. On June 24, at a bull-fight
held in Rome--Spanish tauromachia having been introduced from Naples, where it flourished under
the Aragon dominion--he went down into the arena, and on horseback, armed only with a light
lance, he killed five wild bulls. But the master-stroke he reserved for the end. Dismounting,
and taking a double­handed sword to the sixth bull that was loosed against him, he beheaded
the great beast at one single stroke, "a feat which all Rome considered great."

Thus sped the time of waiting, and meanwhile he gathered about him a Court not only of captains
of fortune, but of men of art and letters, whom he patronized with a liberality--indeed, a
prodigality--so great that it presently became proverbial, and, incidentally, by its proportions
provoked his father's disapproval. In the brilliant group of men of letters who enjoyed his
patronage were such writers as Justolo, Sperulo, and that unfortunate poet Serafino Cimino
da Aquila, known to fame and posterity as the great Aquilano. And it would be, no doubt, during
these months that Pier di Lorenzo painted that portrait of Cesare which Vasari afterwards saw
in Florence, but which, unfortunately, is not now known to exist. Bramante, too, was of his
Court at this time, as was Michelangelo Buonarroti, whose superb group of "Mercy," painted
for Cardinal de Villiers, had just amazed all Rome. With Pinturicchio, and Leonardi da Vinci--whom
we shall see later beside Cesare--Michelangelo was ever held in the highest esteem by the duke.

The story of that young sculptor's leap into fame may not be so widely known but that its repetition
may be tolerated here, particularly since, remotely at least, it touches Cesare Borgia.

When, in 1496, young Buonarroti, at the age of twenty-three, came from Florence to Rome to
seek his fortune at the opulent Pontifical Court, he brought a letter of recommendation to
Cardinal Sforza-Riario. This was the time of the great excavations about Rome; treasures of
ancient art were daily being rescued from the soil, and Cardinal Sforza-Riario was a great
dilletante and collector of the antique. With pride of possession, he conducted the young sculptor
through his gallery, and, displaying his statuary to him, inquired could he do anything that
might compare with it. If the cardinal meant to use the young Florentine cavalierly, his punishment
was immediate and poetic, for amid the antiques Michelangelo beheld a sleeping Cupid which
he instantly claimed as his own work. Riario was angry; no doubt suspicious, too, of fraud.
This Cupid was--as its appearance showed--a genuine antique, which the cardinal had purchased
from a Milanese dealer for two hundred ducats. Michelangelo, in a passion, named the dealer--one
Baldassare--to whom he had sent the statue after treating it, with the questionable morality
of the cinquecentist, so as to give it the appearance of having lain in the ground, to the
end that Baldassare might dispose of it as an antique.

His present fury arose from his learning the price paid by the cardinal to Baldassare, from
whom Michelangelo had received only thirty ducats. In his wrath he demanded--very arbitrarily
it seems--the return of his statue. But to this the cardinal would not consent until Baldassare
had been arrested and made to disgorge the money paid him. Then, at last, Sforza-Riario complied
with Michelangelo's demands and delivered him his Cupid--a piece of work whose possession had
probably ceased to give any pleasure to that collector of the antique.

But the story was bruited abroad, and cultured Rome was agog to see the statue which had duped
so astute a judge as Sforza-Riario. The fame of the young sculptor spread like a ripple over
water, and it was Cesare Borgia--at that time still Cardinal of Valencia who bought the Cupid.
Years later he sent it to Isabella d'Este, assuring her that it had not its equal among contemporary
works of art.

CHAPTER V. THE MURDER OF ALFONSO OF ARAGON

We come now to the consideration of an event which, despite the light that so many, and with
such assurance, have shed upon it, remains wrapped in uncertainty, and presents a mystery second
only to that of the murder of the Duke of Gandia.

It was, you will remember, in July of 1498 that Lucrezia took a second husband in Alfonso of
Aragon, the natural son of Alfonso II of Naples and nephew of Federigo, the reigning king.
He was a handsome boy of seventeen at the time of his marriage--one year younger than Lucrezia--and,
in honour of the event and in compliance with the Pope's insistence, he was created by his
uncle Duke of Biselli and Prince of Salerno. On every hand the marriage was said to be a love-match,
and of it had been born, in November of 1499, the boy Roderigo.

On July 15, 1500, at about the third hour of the night, Alfonso was assaulted and grievously
wounded--mortally, it was said at first--on the steps of St. Peter's.

Burchard's account of the affair is that the young prince was assailed by several assassins,
who wounded him in the head, right arm, and knee. Leaving him, no doubt, for dead, they fled
down the steps, at the foot of which some forty horsemen awaited them, who escorted them out
of the city by the Pertusa Gate. The prince was residing in the palace of the Cardinal of Santa
Maria in Portico, but so desperate was his condition that those who found him upon the steps
of the Basilica bore him into the Vatican, where he was taken to a chamber of the Borgia Tower,
whilst the Cardinal of Capua at once gave him absolution in articulo mortis.

The deed made a great stir in Rome, and was, of course, the subject of immediate gossip, and
three days later Cesare issued an edict forbidding, under pain of death, any man from going
armed between Sant' Angelo and the Vatican.

News of the event was carried immediately to Naples, and King Federigo sent his own physician,
Galieno, to treat and tend his nephew. In the care of that doctor and a hunchback assistant,
Alfonso lay ill of his wounds until August 17, when suddenly be died, to the great astonishment
of Rome, which for some time had believed him out of danger. In recording his actual death,
Burchard is at once explicit and reticent to an extraordinary degree. "Not dying," he writes,
"from the wound he had taken, he was yesterday strangled in his bed at the nineteenth hour."

Between the chronicling of his having been wounded on the steps of St. Peter's and that of
his death, thirty-three days later, there is no entry in Burchard's diary relating to the prince,
nor anything that can in any way help the inquirer to a conclusion; whilst, on the subject
of the strangling, not another word does the Master of Ceremonies add to what has above been
quoted. That he should so coldly--almost cynically--state that Alfonso was strangled, without
so much as suggesting by whom, is singular in one who, however grimly laconic, is seldom reticent--notwithstanding
that he may have been so accounted by those who despaired of finding in his diary the confirmation
of such points of view as they happen to have chosen and of such matters as it pleased them
to believe and propagate.

That same evening Alfonso's body was borne, without pomp, to St. Peter's, and placed in the
Chapel of Santa Maria delle Febbre. It was accompanied by Francesco Borgia, Archbishop of Cosenza.

The doctor who had been in attendance upon the deceased and the hunchback were seized, taken
to Sant' Angelo and examined, but shortly thereafter set at liberty.

So far we are upon what we may consider safe ground. Beyond that we cannot go, save by treading
the uncertain ways of speculation, and by following the accounts of the various rumours circulated
at the time. Formal and absolutely positive evidence of the author of Alfonso's murder there
is none.

