As the long, hot, thirsty hours of that afternoon dragged slowly past, the faces of the men
grew worn and haggard. The two days and nights in the trying storm, the exertion of their search
among the sand hills, the excitement of finding the woman's body and the discovery of the child,
followed by the long sleepless night, and now the hard, hot, dreary hours of the struggle with
the Desert that seemed to gather all its dreadful strength against them, were beginning to
tell. Texas Joe, forced to give constant attention to his team and hardened by years of experience,
showed the strain least, while Pat, unfitted for such a trial by his protracted spree in San
Felipe, undoubtedly suffered most.

After dinner the Irishman sat motionless in his place with downcast face, lifting his head
only at long intervals to gaze with fierce hot eyes upon the barren landscape, while muttering
to himself in a growling undertone. Later he seemed to sink into a stupor and appeared to be
scarcely conscious of his companions. Suddenly he roused himself and, bending forward with
a quick motion, reached the canteen from under the driver's seat. In the act of unscrewing
the cap he was halted by the calm-voice of Texas: "Put that back."

"Go to hell wid ye! I'm no sun-dried herrin'."

The cap came loose, but as he raised the canteen and lifted his face with open parched lips
he looked straight into the muzzle of the big forty-five and back of the gun into the steady
eyes of the plainsman. "I'm sorry, pard, but you can't do it."

For an instant the Irishman sat as if suddenly turned to stone. The water was within reach
of his lips, but over the canteen certain death looked at him, for there was no mistaking the
expression on the face of that man with the gun. Beside himself with thirst, forgetting everything
but the water, and utterly reckless he growled: "Shoot an' be domned, ye murderin' savage!"
and again started to lift the cloth-covered vessel.

At that instant the baby, catching sight of the canteen, called from the rear seat: "Barba
wants drink. Barba thirsty, too."

As though Texas had pulled the trigger the Irishman dropped his hand. Slowly he looked from
face to face of his companions--a dazed expression on his own countenance, as though he were
awakening from a dream. The child, clinging to the Seer with one hand and pointing with the
other, said again: "Barba thirsty; please give Barba drink."

A look of horror and shame went over the face of the Irishman, his form shook like a leaf and
his trembling hands could scarcely hold the canteen. "My Gawd! bhoys," he cried, "fwhat's this
I was doin'?" Then he burst suddenly upon Tex with: "Why the hell don't ye shoot, domn ye?
A baste like me is fit for nothin' but to rot in this Gawd- forsaken land!"

The fierce rage of the man at his own act was pitiful. Texas dropped his gun into the holster
and turned his face away. Jefferson Worth held out a cup. "Give the little one some water,
Pat," he said, in his cold, exact way.

With shaking hands the Irishman poured a little into the cup and, screwing the cap back on
the canteen, he returned it to its place. Then with a groan he bowed his face in his great,
hairy hands.

Just before sun-down they climbed up the ancient beach line to the rim of the Basin and the
Mesa on the east. Halting here for a brief rest and for supper, they looked back over the low,
wide land through which they had come. All along the western sky and far to the southward,
the wall-like mountains lifted their purple heights from the dun plain, a seemingly impassable
barrier, shutting in the land of death; shutting out the life that came to their feet on the
other side. To the north the hills that rim the Basin caught the slanting rays of the setting
sun and glowed rose-color, and pink, and salmon, with deep purple shadows where canyons opened,
all rising out of drifts of silvery light. To the northwest two distant, gleaming, snow-capped
peaks of the Coast Range marked San Antonio Pass. To the west Lone Mountain showed dark blue
against the purple of the hills beyond. Down in the desert basin, drifting above and woven
through the ever-shifting masses of color, shimmering phantom lakes, and dull, dusky patches
of green and brown, long streamers, bars and threads of dust shone like gleaming gold.

Texas Joe, when he had poured for each his portion of water, shook the canteen carefully, and
a smile spread slowly over his sun- blackened features. "What's left belongs to the kid," he
said. "But we'll make it. We'll jest about make it."

The Irishman lifted his cup toward the Desert, saying solemnly: "Here's to ye, domn ye! Ye
ain't got us yet. May ye burn an' blishther an' scorch an' bake 'til yer danged heart shrivels
up an' blows away."

Then he fell to amusing the child with loving fun-talk and queer antics, until she laughed
aloud and permitted him to catch her up in his big hairy hands and to toss her high in the
air. Texas and Abe, joining in the frolic, shared with Pat the little lady's favor, while the
Seer looked smilingly on. But when Jefferson Worth approached, with an offering of pretty stones
and shells which he had gathered on the old beach, she ran up to the engineer's arms. Still
coaxing, the banker held out his offering. The others were silent, watching. Timidly at last,
the child put forth her little hands and accepted the gift, shrinking back quickly with her
treasures to the shelter of the big man's arms.

It was just after noon the next day when the men at the wagon yard on the edge of Rubio City
looked up to see Jefferson Worth's outfit approaching. The dust-covered, nearly-exhausted team
staggered weakly through the gate. On the driver's seat sat a haggard, begrimed figure holding
the reins in his right hand; and in his lap, supported by his free arm, a little girl lay fast
asleep. Then as one of the mules lay down, the men went forward on the run.

Texas stared at them dully for a moment. Then, as he dropped the reins, his parched, cracked
lips parted in what was meant for a smile and he said, in a thick, choking whisper: "We made
it, boys: we jest made it. Somebody take the kid."

Eager hands relieved him of his burden and he slid heavily to the ground to stand dizzily holding
on to a wheel for support.

One of the men said sharply: "But where's Mr. Worth, Tex? What have you done with Jefferson
Worth an' what you doin' with a kid?"

Texas Joe gazed at the questioner steadily as if summoning all his strength of will in an effort
to think. "Hello, Jack! Why--damned if I know--he was with me a little while ago."

The engineer, the banker, the Irishman and the boy were lying unconscious on the bottom of
the wagon.

CHAPTER III.

MISS BARBARA WORTH.

Mrs. Worth, sitting on the wide veranda of her home after a lonely supper, lifted her eyes
frequently from the work in her lap to look down the street. Perhaps it was unusual for a banker's
wife to be darning her husband's socks; it may be, even, that bankers do not usually wear socks
that have been darned. But Mrs. Worth was not sensible that her task was at all strange.

A group of dust-covered cow-boys, coming into town for an evening's pleasure, jogged past with
loud laughter and soft-clinking spurs and bridle-chains. "There's Jefferson Worth's place,"
said one. "D'ye reckon he'll make good corralin' all the money there is in the world?"

Now and then a carriage, filled with well-to-do citizens out for an evening ride, drove slowly
by. The people in the carriages always saluted Mrs. Worth and she returned their salutations
with a prim little bow. But no one stopped to chat or to offer her a seat. In this, also, there
was nothing strange to the woman on the porch of the big, empty house. Sometimes the people
in the carriages, entertaining visiting friends, pointed to Jefferson Worth's house, with proper
explanations, as they also called attention to the Pioneer Bank--Jefferson Worth's bank.

When dusk came and she could no longer see, Mrs. Worth laid aside her work and sat with folded
hands, her face turned down the street. Inside the house the lights were not yet on; there
was no need for them and she liked to sit in the dark.

The Indian servant woman came softly to the door. "Does the Senora wish anything?"

"No, thank you, Ynez; come and sit down."

Noiselessly the woman seated herself on the top step.

"It has been warm to-day, Ynez."

"Si, Senora."

"It is nearly three weeks since Mr. Worth left with Texas Joe for San Felipe, Ynez."

"Si, Senora."

"Do you know how far it is across the Desert to San Felipe?"

"Si. I think three--four day, maybe five, Senora."

"It will be very hot."

"Si, Senora. Las' year my sister's man--Jose--go for San Felipe. No much water. He no come back."

"Yes, I remember. What is it your people call The King's Basin Desert? The Hollow of God's
Hand, isn't it?"

"Si, Senora. La Palma de la Mano de Dios."

"I wish they would come."

"He come pretty quick, I think. Mebbe so he not start when he think. Mebbe so what you call
'beesness' not let him come," said the Indian woman, soothingly.

"But Mr. Worth expected to be back two days ago and he is always on time, you know, Ynez."

"Si, Senora. But mebbe so this one time different"

"I do wish they would---Look, Ynez, look! There's some one stopping!"

A carriage was turning in toward the house.

"It is Senor Worth," said the Indian woman.

"Someone is with him, Ynez. They have a child."

As Jefferson Worth and the Seer came up the walk--the engineer carrying the little girl--Mrs.
Worth rose unsteadily to her feet. "Run, quick, Ynez--quick! The lights!"

That night when the Seer, with everything possible done for his comfort, had retired, and the
baby--bathed and fed--was sound asleep in a child's bed that Ynez had brought from an unused
room in the banker's big house and placed in Mrs. Worth's own chamber, Jefferson Worth and
his wife crept softly to the little girl's bedside. Silently they looked at the baby form under
the snow-white coverlet and at the round, baby face, with the tumbled brown hair, on the pillow.

Mrs. Worth clasped her hands in eager longing as she whispered: "Oh, Jeff, can we keep her?
Can we?"

Jefferson Worth answered in his careful manner: "Did you look for marks on her clothing?"

"There was nothing--not a letter even. And all that she can tell of her name is Barba. I'm
sure she means Barbara." As she answered, Mrs. Worth searched her husband's face anxiously.
Then she exclaimed: "Oh you do want her; you do!" and added wistfully: "Of course we must try
to find her folks, but do you think it very wrong, Jeff, to wish--to wish that we never do?
I feel as though she were sent to take the place of our own little girl. We need her so, Jeff.
I need her so--and you--you will need her, when--" There was a day coming that the banker and
his wife did not talk about. Since the birth and death of their one child, Mrs. Worth had been
a hopeless invalid.

Several weeks passed and every effort to find little Barbara's people was fruitless. Inquiry
in Rubio City and San Felipe and through the newspapers on the Coast brought no returns. The
land in those days was a land of strangers where people came and went with little notice and
were lost quickly in the ever-restless tide. It was not at all strange that no one could identify
an outfit of which it was possible to tell only of a woman and child and one bay horse. There
were many outfits with a woman and child in the party and many that had among the two, four,
six, or more animals one bay horse.

In the meantime, little Barbara, in her new home, was growing gradually away from all that
had gone before her long ride in the big wagon with the men. Already she was beginning to talk
of her "other mamma and papa." Mrs. Worth slipped into the other woman's place in the childish
heart, even as little Barbara filled the empty mother-heart of the woman.

Toward Mr. Worth, though she no longer shrank from him in fear, the little girl maintained
an attitude of questioning regard. With Texas or Pat or the boy Abe, who often went together
to see her, she laughed and chattered like a good little comrade and play-fellow. But when
the Seer came, as he did whenever his duties and his presence in town would permit, she flew
to him with eager love, climbing on his knee or snuggling under his arm with entire confidence
and understanding.

Public interest in Rubio City, keen at first, died out quickly. Rubio City, in those days of
railroad building, had too many things of interest to retain any one thing long. Still, because
it was Jefferson Worth, Rubio City could not altogether drop the matter. So it was one evening
in the Gold Bar saloon, where Pat, coming into town for a quiet evening from the grading camp
on the new road, and Texas Joe, who was just back from another trip across the Desert, were
having a friendly glass in a quiet corner.

"Is there anythin' doin' in that San Felipe I don't know?" was Pat's natural question. "Things
is that slow in this danged town I'm gettin' all dead on me insides."

Texas grinned in his slow way. "There'll be another pay day before long."

"Yes, an' 'tis ye that'll be 'round agin to kape me from proper enjoyment av the blissin's
av civilization wid yer talk av the gold that's to be found in thim mountains that nobody but
ye knows where they are. 'Tis a fool I am to be listenin' to yer crazy drames."

"Just keep your shirt on a little longer, pard," returned the other soothingly. "We've most
enough for a grub-stake now. When we're a little mite better fixed we'll pull out of this sinful
land o' temptation an' when we come back"--he drew a long breath--"we'll do the thing up proper."

Pat dropped his glass with a thump. "We will," he said. "We will that. An' it's to San Felipe
we'll go. Tell me, did you see no wan there inquirin' afther me good health this last thrip?"

"I kept away from Sailor Mike's place, not wishin' to deprive you of your share o' the sport.
But I met a big policeman who said: 'Tell that red-headed Irish bum that it'll be better for
his health to stay away from San Felipe.'"

"He did, did he? He towld ye that? The big slob! He knows ut will be better for him. Fwhat
did ye tell him?"

"I said you'd decided to locate here permanent."

Pat gasped for breath. "Ye towld him that! Ye did! Yer a danged sun- baked herrin' av a man
wid no proper spirit at all. Fwhat the hell do ye mane to be so slanderin' me reputation an'
two or three hundred miles av disert between me an' him? For a sup av wather I'd go to ye wid
me two hands."

Texas Joe laughed outright. "Let's have another drink instead," he said.

In the silence occasioned by the re-filling of their glasses the two friends caught the name
of Jefferson Worth. Instantly their attention was attracted to a well-dressed, smart-looking
stranger, who stood at the bar talking loudly to a man known to Rubio City as a promoter of
somewhat doubtful mining schemes. Pat and Texas listened with amused interest while the two
in concert cursed Jefferson Worth with careful and exhaustive attention to details.

"Go to it, gentlemen!" put in the bar-keeper, as he returned to his place from the table in
the corner. "We-all sure endorses your opinions. Have one on the house." He graciously helped
them to more liquor.

"Brother Worth sure stands high with this here congregation," drawled Texas Joe to his companion.

