Library Edition

THE WIT AND HUMOR OF AMERICA

In Ten Volumes

VOL. I

THE WIT AND HUMOR OF AMERICA

EDITED BY MARSHALL P. WILDER

Volume I

Funk & Wagnalls Company New York and London

Copyright MDCCCCVII, BOBBS-MERRILL COMPANY Copyright MDCCCCXI, THE THWING COMPANY

CONTENTS

                                                                     PAGE
  Anatole Dubois at de Horse Show            Wallace Bruce Amsbary    152
  Billville Spirit Meeting, The              Frank L. Stanton         188
  British Matron, The                        Nathaniel Hawthorne      192
  Champion Checker-Player of Ameriky, The    James Whitcomb Riley     156
  Colonel Sterett's Panther Hunt             Alfred Henry Lewis        98
  Cry from the Consumer, A                   Wilbur D. Nesbit         190
  Curse of the Competent, The                Henry J. Finn             14
  Darby and Joan                             St. John Honeywood       166
  Day We Do Not Celebrate, The               Robert J. Burdette       134
  Deacon's Masterpiece, The; or, The
      Wonderful "One-Hoss Shay"              O.W. Holmes                9
  Deacon's Trout, The                        Henry Ward Beecher       212
  Disappointment, A                          John Boyle O'Reilly      191
  Distichs                                   John Hay                  65
  Down Around the River                      James Whitcomb Riley      29
  Enough                                     Tom Masson               213
  Experiences of the A.C., The               Bayard Taylor            116
  Feast of the Monkeys, The                  John Philip Sousa        183
  Fighting Race, The                         Joseph I.C. Clarke       214
  Grammatical Boy, The                       Bill Nye                  16
  Grizzly-Gru                                Ironquill                174
  John Henry in a Street Car                 Hugh McHugh              177
  Laffing                                    Josh Billings            171
  Letter from Mr. Biggs, A                   E.W. Howe                 69
  Medieval Discoverer, A                     Bill Nye                  31
  Melons                                     Bret Harte                 1
  Menagerie, The                             William Vaughn Moody      24
  Mrs. Johnson                               William Dean Howells      74
  Muskeeter, The                             Josh Billings            181
  My Grandmother's Turkey-Tail Fan           Samuel Minturn Peck      219
  Myopia                                     Wallace Rice             151
  Odyssey of K's, An                         Wilbur D. Nesbit         209
  Old Maid's House, The: In Plan             Elizabeth Stuart Phelps   60
  Organ, The                                 Henry Ward Beecher       217
  Partingtonian Patchwork                    B.P. Shillaber            20
  Pass                                       Ironquill                 91
  Pettibone Lineage, The                     James T. Fields          196
  Psalm of Life, A                           Phoebe Cary              207
  Purple Cow, The                            Gelett Burgess            13
  Quarrel, The                               S.E. Kiser                68
  Similar Cases                              Charlotte Perkins Gilman  56
  Simple English                             Ray Clarke Rose           19
  Spelling Down the Master                   Edward Eggleston         138
  Stage Whispers                             Carolyn Wells            195
  Teaching by Example                        John G. Saxe              91
  Tragedy of It, The                         Alden Charles Noble      194
  Turnings of a Bookworm, The                Carolyn Wells            182
  Wanted--A Cook                             Alan Dale                 35
  What Mr. Robinson Thinks                   James Russell Lowell     131
  When Albani Sang                           William Henry Drummond    92
  When the Frost is on the Punkin            James Whitcomb Riley     169
  Why Moles Have Hands                       Anne Virginia Culbertson 202
  Wouter Van Twiller                         Washington Irving        109
  Yankee Dude'll Do, The                     S.E. Kiser               136

COMPLETE INDEX AT END OF VOLUME X.

FOREWORD

EMBODYING A FEW REMARKS ON THE GENTLE ART OF LAUGH-MAKING.

BY MARSHALL P. WILDER.

Happiness and laughter are two of the most beautiful things in the world, for they are of the
few that are purely unselfish. Laughter is not for yourself, but for others. When people are
happy they present a cheerful spirit, which finds its reflection in every one they meet, for
happiness is as contagious as a yawn. Of all the emotions, laughter is the most versatile,
for it plays equally well the role of either parent or child to happiness.

Then can we say too much in praise of the men who make us laugh? God never gave a man a greater
gift than the power to make others laugh, unless it is the privilege of laughing himself. We
honor, revere, admire our great soldiers, statesmen, and men of letters, but we love the man
who makes us laugh.

No other man to-day enjoys to such an extent the close personal affection, individual yet national,
that is given to Mr. Samuel L. Clemens. He is ours, he is one of us, we have a personal pride
in him--dear "Mark Twain," the beloved child of the American nation. And it was through our
laughter that he won our love.

He is the exponent of the typically American style of fun-making, the humorous story. I asked
Mr. Clemens one day if he could remember the first money he ever earned. With his inimitable
drawl he said:

"Yes, Marsh, it was at school. All boys had the habit of going to school in those days, and
they hadn't any more respect for the desks than they had for the teachers. There was a rule
in our school that any boy marring his desk, either with pencil or knife, would be chastised
publicly before the whole school, or pay a fine of five dollars. Besides the rule, there was
a ruler; I knew it because I had felt it; it was a darned hard one, too. One day I had to tell
my father that I had broken the rule, and had to pay a fine or take a public whipping; and he said:

"'Sam, it would be too bad to have the name of Clemens disgraced before the whole school, so
I'll pay the fine. But I don't want you to lose anything, so come upstairs.'

"I went upstairs with father, and he was for-giving me. I came downstairs with the feeling
in one hand and the five dollars in the other, and decided that as I'd been punished once,
and got used to it, I wouldn't mind taking the other licking at school. So I did, and I kept
the five dollars. That was the first money I ever earned."

The humorous story as expounded by Mark Twain, Artemus Ward, and Robert J. Burdette, is purely
American. Artemus Ward could get laughs out of nothing, by mixing the absurd and the unexpected,
and then backing the combination with a solemn face and earnest manner. For instance, he was
fond of such incongruous statements as: "I once knew a man in New Zealand who hadn't a tooth
in his head," here he would pause for some time, look reminiscent, and continue: "and yet he
could beat a base-drum better than any man I ever knew."

Robert J. Burdette, who wrote columns of capital humor for The Burlington Hawkeye and told
stories superbly, on his first visit to New York was spirited to a notable club, where he told
stories leisurely until half the hearers ached with laughter, and the other half were threatened
with apoplexy. Everyone present declared it the red-letter night of the club, and members who
had missed it came around and demanded the stories at secondhand. Some efforts were made to
oblige them, but without avail, for the tellers had twisted their recollections of the stories
into jokes, and they didn't sound right, so a committee hunted the town for Burdette to help
them out of their difficulty.

Humor is the kindliest method of laugh-making. Wit and satire are ancient, but humor, it has
been claimed, belongs to modern times. A certain type of story, having a sudden and terse conclusion
to a direct statement, has been labeled purely American. For instance: "Willie Jones loaded
and fired a cannon yesterday. The funeral will be to-morrow." But the truth is, it is older
than America; it is very venerable. If you will turn to the twelfth verse of the sixteenth
chapter of II.

Bill Nye was a sturdy and persistent humorist of so good a sort that he never could help being
humorous, yet there was never a sting in his jokes. Gentle raillery was the severest thing
he ever attempted, and even this he did with so genial a smile and so merry an eye, that a
word of his friendly chaffing was worth more than any amount of formal praise.

Few of the great world's great despatches contained so much wisdom in so few words as Nye's
historic wire from Washington:

"My friends and money gave out at 3 A.M."

Eugene Field, the lover of little children, and the self-confessed bibliomaniac, gives us still
another sort of laugh--the tender, indulgent sort. Nothing could be finer than the gentle reminiscence
of "Long Ago," a picture of the lost kingdom of boyhood, which for all its lightness holds
a pathos that clutches one in the throat.

And yet this writer of delicate and subtle humor, this master of tender verse, had a keen and
nimble wit. An ambitious poet once sent him a poem to read entitled "Why do I live?" and Field
immediately wrote back: "Because you sent your poem by mail."

Laughter is one of the best medicines in the world, and though some people would make you force
it down with a spoon, there is no doubt that it is a splendid tonic and awakens the appetite
for happiness.

Colonel Ingersoll wrote on his photograph which adorns my home: "To the man who knows that
mirth is medicine and laughter lengthens life."

Abraham Lincoln, that divinely tender man, believed that fun was an intellectual impetus, for
he read Artemus Ward to his Cabinet before reading his famous emancipation proclamation, and
laying down his book marked the place to resume.

Joel Chandler Harris, whose delightful stories of negro life hold such a high place in American
literature, told me a story of an old negro who claimed that a sense of humor was necessary
to happiness in married life. He said:

"I met a poor old darkey one day, pushing a wheelbarrow loaded with cooking utensils and household
effects. Seeing me looking curiously at him, he shook his head and said:

"'I cain't stand her no longer, boss, I jes' nash'ully cain't stand her no longer.'

"'What's the matter, uncle?' I inquired.

"'Well, you see, suh, she ain't got no idee o' fun--she won't take a joke nohow. The other
night I went home, an' I been takin' a little jes' to waam ma heart--das all, jes to waam ma
heart--an' I got to de fence, an' tried to climb it. I got on de top, an' thar I stays; I couldn't
git one way or t'other. Then a gem'en comes along, an' I says, "Would you min' givin' me a
push?" He says, "Which way you want to go?" I says, "Either way--don't make no dif'unce, jes'
so I git off de fence, for hit's pow'ful oncom'fable up yer." So he give me a push, an' sont
me over to'ard ma side, an' I went home. Then I want sum'in t' eat, an' my ol' 'ooman she wouldn'
git it fo' me, an' so, jes' fo' a joke, das all--jes' a joke, I hit 'er awn de haid. But would
you believe it, she couldn't take a joke. She tu'n aroun', an' sir, she sail inter me sum'in'
scan'lous! I didn' do nothin', 'cause I feelin' kind o'weak jes' then--an' so I made up ma
min' I wasn' goin' to stay with her. Dis mawnin' she gone out washin', an' I jes' move right
out. Hit's no use tryin' to live with a 'ooman who cain't take a joke!'"

From the poems of Thomas Bailey Aldrich to George Ade's Fables in Slang is a far cry, but one
is as typical a style of humor as the other. Ade's is the more distinctly original, for he
not only created the style, but another language. The aptness of its turns, and the marvelous
way in which he hit the bull's-eye of human foibles and weaknesses lifted him into instantaneous
popularity. A famous bon mot of George Ade's which has been quoted threadbare, but which serves
excellently to illustrate his native wit, is his remark about a suit of clothes which the tailor
assured him he could never wear out. He said when he put them on he didn't dare to.

From the laughter-makers pure and simple, we come to those who, while acknowledging the cloud,
yet see the silver lining--the exponents of the smile through tears.

The best of these, Frank L. Stanton, has beautifully said:

    "This world that we're a-livin' in
      Is mighty hard to beat;
    With every rose you get a thorn,
      But ain't the roses sweet?"

He does not deny the thorns, but calls attention to the sweetness of the roses--a gospel of
compensation that speaks to the heart of all; kind words of cheer to the weary traveler.

Such a philosopher was the kind-hearted and sympathetic Irish boy who, walking along with the
parish priest, met a weary organ-grinder, who asked how far it was to the next town. The boy
answered, "Four miles." The priest remonstrated:

"Why, Mike, how can you deceive him so? You know it is eight."

"Well, your riverence," said the good-natured fellow, "I saw how tired he was, and I wanted
to kape his courage up. If I'd told him the truth, he'd have been down-hearted intirely!"

This is really a jolly old world, and people are very apt to find just what they are looking
for. If they are looking for happiness, the best way to find it is to try to give it to others.
If a man goes around with a face as long as a wet day, perfectly certain that he is going to
be kicked, he is seldom disappointed.

A typical exponent of the tenderly human, the tearfully humorous, is James Whitcomb Riley--a
name to conjure with. Only mention it to anyone, and note the spark of interest, the smiling
sigh, the air of gentle retrospection into which he will fall. There is a poem for each and
every one, that commends itself for some special reason, and holds such power of memory or
sentiment as sends it straight into the heart, to remain there treasured and unforgotten.

In these volumes are selections from the pen of all whom I have mentioned, as well as many
more, including a number by the clever women humorists, of whom America is justly proud.

It is with pride and pleasure that I acknowledge the honor done me in being asked to introduce
this company of fun-makers--such a goodly number that space permits the mention of but a few.
But we cannot have too much or even enough of anything so good or so necessary as the literature
that makes us laugh. In that regard we are like a little friend of Mr. Riley's.

The Hoosier poet, as everyone knows, is the devoted friend, companion, and singer of children.
He has a habit of taking them on wild orgies where they are turned loose in a candy store and
told to do their worst. This particular young lady had been allowed to choose all the sorts
of candy she liked until her mouth, both arms, and her pockets were full. Just as they got
to the door to go out, she hung back, and when Mr. Riley stooped over asking her what was the
matter, she whispered:

"Don't you think it smells like ice cream?"

Poems, stories, humorous articles, fables, and fairy tales are offered for your choice, with
subjects as diverse as the styles; but however the laugh is gained, in whatever fashion the
jest is delivered, the laugh-maker is a public benefactor, for laughter is the salt of life,
and keeps the whole dish sweet.

Merrily yours, MARSHALL P. WILDER.

ATLANTIC CITY, 1908.

ACKNOWLEDGMENT

Acknowledgment is due to the following publishers, whose permission was cordially granted to
reprint selections which appear in this collection of American humor.

AINSLEE'S MAGAZINE for "Not According to Schedule," by Mary Stewart Cutting.

THE HENRY ALTEMUS COMPANY for "The New Version," by William J. Lampton.

THE AMERICAN PUBLISHING COMPANY for "How We Bought a Sewin' Machine and Organ," from Josiah
Allen's Wife as a P.A. and P.I., by Marietta Holley.

D. APPLETON & COMPANY for "The Recruit," from With the Band, by Robert W. Chambers.

E.H. BACON & COMPANY for "The V-a-s-e" and "A Concord Love-Song," from The V-a-s-e and Other
Bric-a-Brac, by James Jeffrey Roche.

THE H.M. CALDWELL COMPANY for "Yes" and "Disappointment," from In Bohemia, by John Boyle O'Reilly.

THE COLVER PUBLISHING HOUSE for "The Crimson Cord," by Ellis Parker Butler, and "A Ballade
of the 'How to' Books," by John James Davies, from The American Illustrated Magazine.

THE CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY for "Familiar Authors at Work," by Hayden Carruth, from The
Woman's Home Companion.

THE CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY for "The Love Sonnets of a Husband," by Maurice Smiley, and "Cheer
for the Consumer," by Nixon Waterman, from The Saturday Evening Post.

DEWOLFE, FISKE & COMPANY for "Grandma Keeler Gets Grandpa Ready for Sunday-School," from Cape
Cod Folks, by Sarah P. McLean Greene.

DICK & FITZGERALD for "The Thompson Street Poker Club," from The Thompson Street Poker Club,
by Henry Guy Carleton.

G.W. DILLINGHAM COMPANY for "The Tower of London" and "Science and Natural History," by Charles
Farrar Browne ("Artemus Ward"); "The Musketeer," from Farmer's Alminax, and "Laffing," from
Josh Billings: His Works, by Henry W. Shaw ("Josh Billings"); and for "John Henry in a Street
Car," from John Henry, by George V. Hobart ("Hugh McHugh").

DODD, MEAD & COMPANY for "The Rhyme of the Chivalrous Shark," "The Forbearance of the Admiral,"
"The Dutiful Mariner," "The Meditations of a Mariner" and "The Boat that Ain't," from Nautical
Lays of a Landsman, by Wallace Irwin.

THE DUQUESNE DISTRIBUTING COMPANY for "The Grand Opera," from Billy Baxter's Letters, by William
J. Kountz, Jr.

PAUL ELDER & COMPANY for Sonnets I, VIII, IX, XII, XIV, XXI, from The Love Sonnets of a Hoodlum,
by Wallace Irwin.

EVERYBODY'S MAGAZINE for "The Strike of One," by Elliott Flower; "The Wolf's Holiday," by Caroline
Duer; "A Mother of Four," by Juliet Wilbor Tompkins; "The Weddin'," by Jennie Betts Hartswick,
and "A Double-Dyed Deceiver," by Sydney Porter ("O. Henry").

THE FEDERAL BOOK COMPANY for "Budge and Toddie," from Helen's Babies, by John Habberton.

FORDS, HOWARD & HURLBURT, for "The Deacon's Trout," from Norwood, by Henry Ward Beecher.

FOX, DUFFIELD & COMPANY for "The Paintermine," "The Octopussycat," "The Welsh Rabbittern,"
"The Bumblebeaver," "The Wild Boarder," from Mixed Beasts, by Kenyon Cox; "The Lost Inventor,"
"Niagara Be Dammed," "The Ballad of Grizzly Gulch," "A Letter from Home," "Crankidoxology"
and "Fall Styles in Faces," from At the Sign of the Dollar, by Wallace Irwin, and a selection
from The Golfer's Rubaiyat, by Henry W. Boynton.

THE HARVARD LAMPOON for "A Lay of Ancient Rome," by Thomas Ybarra.

HENRY HOLT & COMPANY for "Araminta and the Automobile," from Cheerful Americans, by Charles
Battell Loomis.

HOUGHTON, MIFFLIN & COMPANY for "A Letter from Mr. Biggs," from The Story of a Country Town,
by E.W. Howe; "The Notary of Perigueux," from Outre-Mer, by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow; "A
Nautical Ballad," from Davy and the Goblin, by Charles E. Carryl; "The Spring Beauties," from
The Ride to the Lady, by Helen Avery Cone; "Praise-God Barebones," from Songs and Lyrics, by
Ellen M. Hutchinson-Cortissoz; "Fable," from Poems, by Ralph Waldo Emerson; "The Owl Critic"
and "Cæsar's Quiet Lunch with Cicero," from Ballads and Other Poems, by James T. Fields; "The
Menagerie," from Poems, by William Vaughn Moody; "The Briefless Barrister," "Comic Miseries,"
"A Reflective Retrospect," "How the Money Goes," "The Coquette," "Icarus," "Teaching by Example,"
from Poems, by John Godfrey Saxe; "My Honey, My Love," by Joel Chandler Harris; "Banty Tim,"
"The Mystery of Gilgal" and "Distichs," from Poems, by John Hay; "The Deacon's Masterpiece,
or The Wonderful One Hoss Shay," "The Height of the Ridiculous," "Evening, By a Tailor," "Latter
Day Warnings," and "Contentment," from Poems, by Oliver Wendell Holmes; two selections from
The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table, by Oliver Wendell Holmes, and "Dislikes," from The Poet
at the Breakfast Table, by Oliver Wendell Holmes; "Plain Language from Truthful James," and
"The Society Upon the Stanislaus," from Poems, by Bret Harte; "Melons," from Mrs. Skaggs' Husbands
and Other Sketches, by Bret Harte; "The Courtin'," "A Letter from Mr. Ezekiel Biglow" and "What
Mr. Robinson Thinks," from Poems, by James Russell Lowell; "The Chief Mate," from Fireside
Travels, by James Russell Lowell; "A Night in a Rocking Chair" and "A Rival Entertainment,"
from Haphazard, by Kate Field; "Mrs. Johnson," from Suburban Sketches, by William Dean Howells;
"Garden Ethics," from My Summer in a Garden, by Charles Dudley Warner; "Our Nearest Neighbor,"
from Marjorie Daw and Other Stories, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich; "Simon Starts in the World"
(J.J. Hooper), "The Duluth Speech" (J. Proctor Knott), "Bill Arp on Litigation" (C.H. Smith),
"Assault and Battery" (J.G. Baldwin), "How Ruby Played" (G.W. Bagby), from Oddities of Southern
Life, edited by Henry Watterson; "The Demon of the Study," from Poems, by John Greenleaf Whittier;
"The Old Maid's House: in Plan," from An Old Maid's Paradise, by Elizabeth Stuart Phelps; "Dum
Vivimus Vigilamus," "What She Said About It," "Dictum Sapienti," "The Lost Word" and "Abou
Ben Butler," from Poems, by Charles Henry Webb ("John Paul"); "Chad's Story of the Goose" and
"Colonel Carter's Story of the Postmaster," from Colonel Carter of Cartersville, by F. Hopkinson
Smith; "The British Matron," from Our Old Home, by Nathaniel Hawthorne; "As Good as a Play,"
from Stories from My Attic, by Horace E. Scudder; "The Pettibone Lineage," by James T. Fields;
"The Experiences of the A.C.," by Bayard Taylor; "Eve's Daughter," by Edward Rowland Sill,
and "The Diamond Wedding," by Edmund Clarence Stedman.

WILLIAM R. JENKINS for "It Is Time to Begin to Conclude," from Soldier Songs and Love Songs,
by Alexander H. Laidlaw.

JOHN LANE COMPANY for "The Invisible Prince," from Comedies and Errors, by Henry Harland.

LIFE PUBLISHING COMPANY for "Hard," "Enough" and "Desolation," from In Merry Measure, by Tom
Masson; "A Branch Library" and "Table Manners," from Tomfoolery, by James Montgomery Flagg;
"The Sonnet of the Lovable Lass and the Plethoric Dad," by J.W. Foley; "Thoughts for an Easter
Morning," by Wallace Irwin; "Suppressed Chapters," by Carolyn Wells; "The Conscientious Curate
and the Beauteous Ballad Girl," by William Russell Rose, and "A Poe-'em of Passion," by Charles
F. Lummis.

LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE for "The Modern Farmer," by Jack Appleton; "The Wicked Zebra" and "The
Happy Land," by Frank Roe Batchelder; "A Mothers' Meeting," by Madeline Bridges; "The Final
Choice" and "A Daniel Come to Judgment," by Edmund Vance Cooke; "The Co-operative Housekeepers"
and "Her 'Angel' Father," by Elliott Flower; "Wasted Opportunities," by Roy Farrell Greene;
"The Auto Rubaiyat," by Reginald W. Kauffman; "It Pays to be Happy" and "Victory," by Tom Masson;
"Is It I?" by Warwick S. Price; "Johnny's Lessons," by Carroll Watson Rankin; "Her Brother:
Enfant Terrible" and "Trouble-Proof," by E.L. Sabin; "A Bookworm's Plaint," by Clinton Scollard;
"Nothin' Done," by S.S. Stinson, and "Uncle Bentley and the Roosters," by Hayden Carruth.

LITTLE, BROWN & COMPANY for "Elizabeth Eliza Writes a Paper," from The Peterkin Papers, by
Lucretia P. Hale; "The Skeleton in the Closet," by Edward Everett Hale, and "The Wolf at Susan's
Door," from The Wolf at Susan's Door and Mrs. Lathrop's Love Affair, by Anne Warner.

LOTHROP, LEE & SHEPARD for "A Letter," from Swingin' Round the Circle, by David Ross Locke
("P. V. Nasby"); "A Cable Car Preacher" and "The Prayer of Cyrus Brown," from Dreams in Homespun,
by Sam Walter Foss; "He Wanted to Know," "Hullo!" and "She Talked," from Back Country Poems,
by Sam Walter Foss; "Mr. Stiver's Horse" and "After the Funeral," from the works of James M.
Bailey (The Danbury News Man); "Yawcob Strauss," "Der Oak und der Vine," "To Bary Jade" and
"Shonny Schwartz," from Leetle Yawcob Strauss, by Charles Follen Adams; "The Coupon Bonds"
and "Darius Greene," from the works of J.T. Trowbridge, and Chapters VII, IX, XVI, XX, XXI,
from "Partingtonian Patchwork," by B.P. Shillaber.

THE S.S. MCCLURE COMPANY and MCCLURE, PHILLIPS & COMPANY for "Morris and the Honorable Tim,"
from Little Citizens, by Myra Kelly.

A.C. MCCLURG & COMPANY for "Simple English," from At the Sign of the Ginger Jar, by Ray Clarke
Rose, and "Ye Legende of Sir Yroncladde," by Wilbur D. Nesbit, from The Athlete's Garland.

DAVID MCKAY for "Hans Breitmann's Party," "Breitmann and the Turners," "Ballad," "Breitmann
in Politics" and "Love Song," from Hans Breitmann's Ballads, by Charles Godfrey Leland, and
"A Boston Ballad," from Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman.

THE MACMILLAN COMPANY for "In a State of Sin," from The Virginian, by Owen Wister.

THE MONARCH BOOK COMPANY for "The Apostasy of William Dodge," from The Seekers, by Stanley
Waterloo.

THE FRANK A. MUNSEY COMPANY for "An Educational Project" and "The Woman-Hater Reformed," by
Roy Farrell Greene; "The Trial That Job Missed," by Kennett Harris; "The Education of Grandpa,"
by Wallace Irwin; "An Improved Calendar," by Tudor Jenks.

SMALL, MAYNARD & COMPANY for "Mr. Dooley on Gold Seeking," "Mr. Dooley on Expert Testimony,"
"Mr. Dooley on Golf," "Mr. Dooley on Football," "Mr. Dooley on Reform Candidates," from Mr.
Dooley in Peace and War, by Finley Peter Dunne; "E.O.R.S.W." from Alphabet of Celebrities,
by Oliver Herford; "A Letter," from The Letters of a Self-Made Merchant to His Son, by George
Horace Lorimer; "Vive La Bagatelle" and "Willy and the Lady," from A Gage of Youth, by Gelett
Burgess; "When the Allegash Drive Goes Through," from Pine Tree Ballads, by Holman F. Day;
"Had a Set of Double Teeth," from Up in Maine, by Holman F. Day; "Similar Cases," from In This
Our World, by Charlotte Perkins Gilman; "Barney McGee," by Richard Hovey, from More Songs from
Vagabondia; "A Modern Eclogue," "The Sceptics," "A Staccato to O le Lupe," "A Spring Feeling,"
"Her Valentine" and "In Philistia," by Bliss Carman, from Last Songs from Vagabondia, and "Vive
la Bagatelle," "A Cavalier's Valentine" and "Holly Song," from Hills of Song, by Clinton Scollard.

THE MUTUAL BOOK COMPANY for "James and Reginald" and "The Story of the Two Friars," from The
Tribune Primer, by Eugene Field.

THE ORANGE JUDD COMPANY for "Spelling Down the Master," from The Hoosier Schoolmaster, by Edward
Eggleston.

JAMES POTT & COMPANY for "The Gusher," from I've Been Thinking, by Charles Battell Loomis.

G.P. PUTNAM'S SONS for "When Albani Sang" and "The Stove Pipe Hole," from The Habitant, by
William Henry Drummond; "National Philosophy," from The Voyageur, by William Henry Drummond;
"The Siege of Djklxprwbz," "Grizzly-gru," "He and She," "The Jackpot," "A Shining Mark," "The
Reason," "Pass" and "The Whisperer," from The Rhymes of Ironquill, by Eugene F. Ware, and "A
Family Horse," from The Sparrowgrass Papers, by Frederick S. Cozzens.

RAND, MCNALLY & COMPANY for "An Arkansas Planter," from An Arkansas Planter, by Opie Read.

A.M. ROBERTSON for "The Drayman," from Songs of Bohemia, by Daniel O'Connell.

R.H. RUSSELL for "Mr. Carteret and His Fellow-Americans Abroad," by David Gray, from The Metropolitan
Magazine.

THE SMART SET PUBLISHING COMPANY for "An Evening Musicale," by May Isabel Fisk, from The Smart Set.

THE FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY for "Colonel Sterett's Panther Hunt," from Wolfville Nights,
by Alfred Henry Lewis; "The Bohemians of Boston," "The Purple Cow" and "Nonsense Verses," from
The Burgess Nonsense Book, by Gelett Burgess, and "My Grandmother's Turkey-tail Fan," "Little
Bopeep and Little Boy Blue" and "My Sweetheart," by Samuel Minturn Peck.

THE TANDY-WHEELER PUBLISHING COMPANY for "Utah," "A New Year Idyl," "The Warrior," "Lost Chords"
and "The Advertiser," from A Little Book of Tribune Verse, by Eugene Field.

THOMPSON & THOMAS for "The Grammatical Boy," by Edgar Wilson Nye ("Bill Nye").

THE A. WESSELS COMPANY for "The Dying Gag," by James L. Ford.

M. WITMARK & SONS for "Walk," from Jim Marshall's New Pianner, by William Devere.

Special thanks are due to George Ade, Wallace Bruce Amsbary, John Kendrick Bangs, H.W. Boynton,
Gelett Burgess, Ellis Parker Butler, Hayden Carruth, Robert W. Chambers, Charles Heber Clarke,
Joseph I.C. Clarke, Mary Stewart Cutting, John James Davies, Caroline Duer, Mrs. Edward Eggleston,
May Isabel Fisk, Elliott Flower, James L. Ford, David Gray, Sarah P. McLean Greene, Jennie
Betts Hartswick, William Dean Howells, Wallace Irwin, Charles F. Johnson, S.E. Kiser, A.H.
Laidlaw, Alfred Henry Lewis, Charles B. Lewis, Charles Battell Loomis, Charles F. Lummis, T.L.
Masson, William Vaughn Moody, R.K. Munkittrick, W.D. Nesbit, Meredith Nicholson, Alden Charles
Noble, Samuel Minturn Peck, Sydney Porter, Wallace Rice, James Whitcomb Riley, Doane Robinson,
Henry A. Shute, F. Hopkinson Smith, Harriet Prescott Spofford, Howard V. Sutherland, John B.
Tabb, Bert Leston Taylor, Juliet Wilbor Tompkins, Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward, Eugene F. Ware,
Anne Warner French and Stanley Waterloo for permission to reprint selections from their works
and for many valuable suggestions.

THE DEACON'S MASTERPIECE

OR, THE WONDERFUL "ONE-HOSS SHAY" That's all I say.

THE PURPLE COW

BY GELETT BURGESS

    Reflections on a Mythic Beast,
    Who's Quite Remarkable, at Least.

    I never Saw a Purple Cow;
      I never Hope to See One;
    But I can Tell you, Anyhow,
      I'd rather See than Be One.

        Cinq Ans Apres.

    (Confession: and a Portrait, Too,
    Upon a Background that I Rue!)

    Ah, yes! I wrote the "Purple Cow"--
      I'm Sorry, now, I Wrote it!
    But I can Tell you, Anyhow,
      I'll Kill you if you Quote it!

THE CURSE OF THE COMPETENT

BY HENRY J. FINN

    My spirit hath been seared, as though the lightning's scathe had rent,
    In the swiftness of its wrath, through the midnight firmament,
    The darkly deepening clouds; and the shadows dim and murky
    Of destiny are on me, for my dinner's naught but--turkey.

    The chords upon my silent lute no soft vibrations know,
    Save where the meanings of despair--out-breathings of my woe--
    Tell of the cold and selfish world. In melancholy mood,
    The soul of genius chills with only--fourteen cords of wood.

    The dreams of the deserted float around my curtained hours,
    And young imaginings are as the thorns bereft of flowers;
    A wretched outcast from mankind, my strength of heart has sank
    Beneath the evils of--ten thousand dollars in the bank.

    This life to me a desert is, and kindness, as the stream
    That singly drops upon the waste where burning breezes teem;
    A banished, blasted plant, I droop, to which no freshness lends
    Its healing balm, for Heaven knows, I've but--a dozen friends.

    And Sorrow round my brow has wreathed its coronal of thorns;
    No dewy pearl of Pleasure my sad sunken eyes adorns;
    Calamity has clothed my thoughts, I feel a bliss no more,--
    Alas! my wardrobe now would only--stock a clothing store.

    The joyousness of Memory from me for aye hath fled;
    It dwells within the dreary habitation of the dead;
    I breathe my midnight melodies in languor and by stealth,
    For Fate inflicts upon my frame--the luxury of health.

    Envy, Neglect, and Scorn have been my hard inheritance;
    And a baneful curse clings to me, like the stain on innocence;
    My moments are as faded leaves, or roses in their blight--
    I'm asked but once a day to dine--to parties every night.

    Would that I were a silver ray upon the moonlit air,
    Or but one gleam that's glorified by each Peruvian's prayer!
    My tortured spirit turns from earth, to ease its bitter loathing;
    My hatred is on all things here, because--I want for nothing.

THE GRAMMATICAL BOY

BY BILL NYE

Sometimes a sad, homesick feeling comes over me, when I compare the prevailing style of anecdote
and school literature with the old McGuffey brand, so well known thirty years ago. To-day our
juvenile literature, it seems to me, is so transparent, so easy to understand, that I am not
surprised to learn that the rising generation shows signs of lawlessness.

Boys to-day do not use the respectful language and large, luxuriant words that they did when
Mr. McGuffey used to stand around and report their conversations for his justly celebrated
school reader. It is disagreeable to think of, but it is none the less true, and for one I
think we should face the facts.

I ask the careful student of school literature to compare the following selection, which I
have written myself with great care, and arranged with special reference to the matter of choice
and difficult words, with the flippant and commonplace terms used in the average school book
of to-day.

One day as George Pillgarlic was going to his tasks, and while passing through the wood, he
spied a tall man approaching in an opposite direction along the highway.

"Ah!" thought George, in a low, mellow tone of voice, "whom have we here?"

"Good morning, my fine fellow," exclaimed the stranger, pleasantly. "Do you reside in this
locality?"

"Indeed I do," retorted George, cheerily, doffing his cap. "In yonder cottage, near the glen,
my widowed mother and her thirteen children dwell with me."

"And is your father dead?" exclaimed the man, with a rising inflection.

"Extremely so," murmured the lad, "and, oh, sir, that is why my poor mother is a widow."

"And how did your papa die?" asked the man, as he thoughtfully stood on the other foot a while.

"Alas! sir," said George, as a large hot tear stole down his pale cheek and fell with a loud
report on the warty surface of his bare foot, "he was lost at sea in a bitter gale. The good
ship foundered two years ago last Christmastide, and father was foundered at the same time.
No one knew of the loss of the ship and that the crew was drowned until the next spring, and
it was then too late."

"And what is your age, my fine fellow?" quoth the stranger.

"If I live till next October," said the boy, in a declamatory tone of voice suitable for a
Second Reader, "I will be seven years of age."

"And who provides for your mother and her large family of children?" queried the man.

"Indeed, I do, sir," replied George, in a shrill tone. "I toil, oh, so hard, sir, for we are
very, very poor, and since my elder sister, Ann, was married and brought her husband home to
live with us, I have to toil more assiduously than heretofore."

"And by what means do you obtain a livelihood?" exclaimed the man, in slowly measured and grammatical
words.

"By digging wells, kind sir," replied George, picking up a tired ant as he spoke and stroking
it on the back. "I have a good education, and so I am able to dig wells as well as a man. I
do this day-times and take in washing at night. In this way I am enabled barely to maintain
our family in a precarious manner; but, oh, sir, should my other sisters marry, I fear that
some of my brothers-in-law would have to suffer."

"And do you not fear the deadly fire-damp?" asked the stranger in an earnest tone.

"Not by a damp sight," answered George, with a low gurgling laugh, for he was a great wag.

"You are indeed a brave lad," exclaimed the stranger, as he repressed a smile. "And do you
not at times become very weary and wish for other ways of passing your time?"

"Indeed, I do, sir," said the lad. "I would fain run and romp and be gay like other boys, but
I must engage in constant manual exercise, or we will have no bread to eat, and I have not
seen a pie since papa perished in the moist and moaning sea."

"And what if I were to tell you that your papa did not perish at sea, but was saved from a
humid grave?" asked the stranger in pleasing tones.

"Ah, sir," exclaimed George, in a genteel manner, again doffing his cap, "I am too polite to
tell you what I would say, and besides, sir, you are much larger than I am."

"But, my brave lad," said the man in low musical tones, "do you not know me, Georgie? Oh, George!"

"I must say," replied George, "that you have the advantage of me. Whilst I may have met you
before, I can not at this moment place you, sir."

"My son! oh, my son!" murmured the man, at the same time taking a large strawberry mark out
of his valise and showing it to the lad. "Do you not recognize your parent on your father's
side? When our good ship went to the bottom, all perished save me. I swam several miles through
the billows, and at last, utterly exhausted, gave up all hope of life. Suddenly I stepped on
something hard. It was the United States.

"And now, my brave boy," exclaimed the man with great glee, "see what I have brought for you."
It was but the work of a moment to unclasp from a shawl-strap which he held in his hand and
present to George's astonished gaze a large forty-cent watermelon, which until now had been
concealed by the shawl-strap.

SIMPLE ENGLISH

BY RAY CLARKE ROSE

    Ofttimes when I put on my gloves,
      I wonder if I'm sane.
    For when I put the right one on,
      The right seems to remain
    To be put on--that is, 'tis left;
      Yet if the left I don,
    The other one is left, and then
      I have the right one on.
    But still I have the left on right;
      The right one, though, is left
    To go right on the left right hand
      All right, if I am deft.

PARTINGTONIAN PATCHWORK

BY B.P. SHILLABER

VII

"Are you in favor of the prohibitive law, or the license law?" asked her opposite neighbor
of the relict of P.P.; corporal of the "Bloody 'Leventh."

She carefully weighed the question, as though she were selling snuff, and answered,--

"Sometimes I think I am, and then again I think I am not."

Her neighbor was perplexed, and repeated the question, varying it a little.

"Have you seen the 'Mrs. Partington Twilight Soap'?" she asked.

"Yes," was the reply; "everybody has seen that; but why?"

"Because," said the dame, "it has two sides to it, and it is hard to choose between them. Now
here are my two neighbors, contagious to me on both sides--one goes for probation, t'other
for licentiousness; and I think the best thing for me is to keep nuisance."

She meant neutral, of course. The neighbor admired, and smiled, while Ike lay on the floor,
with his legs in the air, trying to balance Mrs. Partington's fancy waiter on his toe.

IX

Christmas Ike was made the happy possessor of a fiddle, which he found in the morning near
his stocking.

"Has he got a musical bent?" Banfield asked, of whom Mrs. Partington was buying the instrument.

"Bent, indeed!" said she; "no, he's as straight as an error."

He explained by repeating the question regarding his musical inclination.

"Yes," she replied; "he's dreadfully inclined to music since he had a drum, and I want the
fiddle to see if I can't make another Pickaninny or an Old Bull of him. Jews-harps is simple,
though I can't see how King David played on one of 'em, and sung his psalms at the same time;
but the fiddle is best, because genius can show itself plainer on it without much noise. Some
prefers a violeen; but I don't know."

The fiddle was well improved, till the horsehair all pulled out of the bow, and it was then
twisted up into a fish-line.

XVI

"How limpid you walk!" said a voice behind us, as we were making a hundred and fifty horse-power
effort to reach a table whereon reposed a volume of Bacon. "What is the cause of your lameness?"
It was Mrs. Partington's voice that spoke, and Mrs. Partington's eyes that met the glance we
returned over our left shoulder. "Gout," said we, briefly, almost surlily. "Dear me," said
she; "you are highly flavored! It was only rich people and epicacs in living that had the gout
in olden times." "Ah!" we growled, partly in response, and partly with an infernal twinge,
"Poor soul!" she continued, with commiseration, like an anodyne, in the tones of her voice;
"the best remedy I know for it is an embarkation of Roman wormwood and lobelia for the part
infected, though some say a cranberry poultice is best; but I believe the cranberries is for
erisipilis, and whether either of 'em is a rostrum for the gout or not, I really don't know.
If it was a fraction of the arm, I could jest know what to subscribe." We looked into her eye
with a determination to say something severely bitter, because we felt allopathic just then;
but the kind and sympathizing look that met our own disarmed severity, and sinking into a seat
with our coveted Bacon, we thanked her. It was very evident, all the while, that she, or they,
stayed, that Ike was seeing how near he could come to our lame member, and not touch it. He
did touch it sometimes, but those didn't count.

XX

"I've always noticed," said Mrs. Partington on New Year's Day, dropping her voice to the key
that people adopt when they are disposed to be philosophical or moral; "I've always noticed
that every year added to a man's life is apt to make him older, just as a man who goes a journey
finds, as he jogs on, that every mile he goes brings him nearer where he is going, and farther
from where he started. I am not so young as I was once, and I don't believe I shall ever be,
if I live to the age of Samson, which, Heaven knows as well as I do, I don't want to, for I
wouldn't be a centurion or an octagon, and survive my factories, and become idiomatic, by any
means. But then there is no knowing how a thing will turn out till it takes place; and we shall
come to an end some day, though we may never live to see it."

There was a smart tap on the looking-glass that hung upon the wall, followed instantly by another.

"Gracious!" said she; "what's that? I hope the glass isn't fractioned, for it is a sure sign
of calamity, and mercy knows they come along full fast enough without helping 'em by breaking
looking-glasses."

There was another tap, and she caught sight of a white bean that fell on the floor; and there,
reflected in the glass, was the face of Ike, who was blowing beans at the mirror through a
crack in the door.

XXI

"As for the Chinese question," said Mrs. Partington, reflectively, holding her spoon at "present,"
while the vapor of her cup of tea curled about her face, which shone through it like the moon
through a mist, "it is a great pity that somebody don't answer it, though who under the canister
of heaven can do it, with sich letters as they have on their tea-chists, is more than I can
tell. It is really too bad, though, that some lingister doesn't try it, and not have this provoking
question asked all the time, as if we were ignoramuses, and did not know Toolong from No Strong,
and there never was sich a thing as the seventh commandment, which, Heaven knows, suits this
case to a T, and I hope the breakers of it may escape, but I don't see how they can. The question
must be answered, unless it is like a cannondrum, to be given up, which nobody of any spirit
should do."

She brought the spoon down into the cup, and looked out through the windows of her soul into
celestial fields, peopled with pig-tails, that were all in her eye, while Ike took a double
charge of sugar for his tea, and gave an extra allowance of milk to the kitten.

THE MENAGERIE

BY WILLIAM VAUGHN MOODY

    Thank God my brain is not inclined to cut
      Such capers every day! I'm just about
    Mellow, but then--There goes the tent flap shut.
      Rain's in the wind. I thought so: every snout
      Was twitching when the keeper turned me out.

    That screaming parrot makes my blood run cold.
      Gabriel's trump! the big bull elephant
    Squeals "Rain!" to the parched herd. The monkeys scold,
      And jabber that it's rain-water they want.
      (It makes me sick to see a monkey pant.)

    I'll foot it home, to try and make believe
      I'm sober. After this I stick to beer,
    And drop the circus when the sane folks leave.
      A man's a fool to look at things too near:
      They look back and begin to cut up queer.

    Beasts do, at any rate; especially
      Wild devils caged. They have the coolest way
    Of being something else than what you see:
      You pass a sleek young zebra nosing hay,
      A nylghau looking bored and distingué,--

    And think you've seen a donkey and a bird.
      Not on your life! Just glance back, if you dare.
    The zebra chews, the nylghau hasn't stirred;
      But something's happened, Heaven knows what or where,
      To freeze your scalp and pompadour your hair.

    I'm not precisely an æolian lute
      Hung in the wandering winds of sentiment,
    But drown me if the ugliest, meanest brute
      Grunting and fretting in that sultry tent
      Didn't just floor me with embarrassment!

    'Twas like a thunder-clap from out the clear--
      One minute they were circus beasts, some grand,
    Some ugly, some amusing, and some queer:
      Rival attractions to the hobo band,
      The flying jenny, and the peanut-stand.

    Next minute they were old hearth-mates of mine!
      Lost people, eyeing me with such a stare!
    Patient, satiric, devilish, divine;
      A gaze of hopeless envy, squalid care,
      Hatred, and thwarted love, and dim despair.

    Within my blood my ancient kindred spoke--
      Grotesque and monstrous voices, heard afar
    Down ocean caves when behemoth awoke,
      Or through fern forests roared the plesiosaur
      Locked with the giant-bat in ghastly war.

    And suddenly, as in a flash of light,
      I saw great Nature working out her plan;
    Through all her shapes, from mastodon to mite,
      Forever groping, testing, passing on
      To find at last the shape and soul of Man.

    Till in the fullness of accomplished time,
      Comes brother Forepaugh, upon business bent,
    Tracks her through frozen and through torrid clime,
      And shows us, neatly labeled in a tent,
      The stages of her huge experiment;

    Babbling aloud her shy and reticent hours;
      Dragging to light her blinking, slothful moods;
    Publishing fretful seasons when her powers
      Worked wild and sullen in her solitudes,
      Or when her mordant laughter shook the woods.

    Here, round about me, were her vagrant births;
      Sick dreams she had, fierce projects she essayed;
    Her qualms, her fiery prides, her craze mirths;
      The troublings of her spirit as she strayed,
      Cringed, gloated, mocked, was lordly, was afraid,

    On that long road she went to seek mankind;
      Here were the darkling coverts that she beat
    To find the Hider she was sent to find;
      Here the distracted footprints of her feet
      Whereby her soul's Desire she came to greet.

    But why should they, her botch-work, turn about
      And stare disdain at me, her finished job?
    Why was the place one vast suspended shout
      Of laughter? Why did all the daylight throb
      With soundless guffaw and dumb-stricken sob?

    Helpless I stood among those awful cages;
      The beasts were walking loose, and I was bagged!
    I, I, last product of the toiling ages,
      Goal of heroic feet that never lagged--
      A little man in trousers, slightly jagged.

    Deliver me from such another jury!
      The Judgment-day will be a picnic to't.
    Their satire was more dreadful than their fury,
      And worst of all was just a kind of brute
      Disgust, and giving up, and sinking mute.

    Survival of the fittest adaptation,
      And all their other evolution terms,
    Seem to omit one small consideration,
      To wit, that tumblebugs and angleworms
      Have souls: there's soul in everything that squirms.

    And souls are restless, plagued, impatient things,
      All dream and unaccountable desire;
    Crawling, but pestered with the thought of wings;
      Spreading through every inch of earth's old mire,
      Mystical hanker after something higher.

    Wishes are horses, as I understand.
      I guess a wistful polyp that has strokes
    Of feeling faint to gallivant on land
      Will come to be a scandal to his folk;
      Legs he will sprout, in spite of threats and jokes.

    And at the core of every life that crawls
      Or runs or flies or swims or vegetates--
    Churning the mammoth's heart-blood, in the galls
      Of shark and tiger planting gorgeous hates,
      Lighting the love of eagles for their mates;

    Yes, in the dim brain of the jellied fish
      That is and is not living--moved and stirred
    From the beginning a mysterious wish,
      A vision, a command, a fatal Word:
      The name of Man was uttered, and they heard.

    Upward along the æons of old war
      They sought him: wing and shank-bone, claw and bill,
    Were fashioned and rejected; wide and far
      They roamed the twilight jungles of their will;
      But still they sought him, and desired him still.

    Man they desired, but mind you, Perfect Man,
      The radiant and the loving, yet to be!
    I hardly wonder, when they come to scan
      The upshot of their strenuosity,
      They gazed with mixed emotions upon me.

    Well, my advice to you is, Face the creatures,
      Or spot them sideways with your weather eye,
    Just to keep tab on their expansive features;
      It isn't pleasant when you're stepping high
      To catch a giraffe smiling on the sly.

    If Nature made you graceful, don't get gay
      Back-to before the hippopotamus;
    If meek and godly, find some place to play
      Besides right where three mad hyenas fuss;
      You may hear language that we won't discuss.

    If you're a sweet thing in a flower-bed hat,
      Or her best fellow with your tie tucked in,
    Don't squander love's bright springtime girding at
      An old chimpanzee with an Irish chin:
      There may be hidden meaning in his grin.

DOWN AROUND THE RIVER

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

    Noon-time and June-time, down around the river!
    Have to furse with 'Lizey Ann--but lawzy! I fergive her!
    Drives me off the place, and says 'at all 'at she's a-wishin',
    Land o' gracious! time'll come I'll git enough o' fishin'!
    Little Dave, a-choppin' wood, never 'pears to notice;
    Don't know where she's hid his hat, er keerin' where his coat is,--
    Specalatin', more'n like, he haint a-goin' to mind me,
    And guessin' where, say twelve o'clock, a feller'd likely find me.

    Noon-time and June-time, down around the river!
    Clean out o' sight o' home, and skulkin' under kivver
    Of the sycamores, jack-oaks, and swamp-ash and ellum--
    Idies all so jumbled up, you kin hardly tell'em!--
    Tired, you know, but lovin' it, and smilin' jest to think 'at
    Any sweeter tiredness you'd fairly want to drink it.
    Tired o' fishin'--tired o' fun--line out slack and slacker--
    All you want in all the world's a little more tobacker!

    Hungry, but a-hidin' it, er jes' a-not a-keerin':--
    Kingfisher gittin' up and skootin' out o' hearin';
    Snipes on the t'other side, where the County Ditch is,
    Wadin' up and down the aidge like they'd rolled their britches!
    Old turkle on the root kindo-sorto drappin'
    Intoo th' worter like he don't know how it happen!

    Somebody hollerin'--'way around the bend in
    Upper Fork--where yer eye kin jes' ketch the endin'
    Of the shiney wedge o' wake some muss-rat's a-makin'
    With that pesky nose o' his! Then a sniff o' bacon,
    Corn-bread and 'dock-greens--and little Dave a-shinnin'
    'Crost the rocks and mussel-shells, a-limpin' and a-grinnin',
    With yer dinner fer ye, and a blessin' from the giver.
    Noon-time and June-time down around the river!

WANTED--A COOK

BY ALAN DALE

There was a ring at the front door-bell. Letitia, wrought-up, nervously clutched my arm. For
a moment a sort of paralysis seized me. Then, alertly as a young calf, I bounded toward the
door, hope aroused, and expectation keen. It was rather dark in the outside hall, and I could
not quite perceive the nature of our visitor. But I soon gladly realized that it was something
feminine, and as I held the door open, a thin, small, soiled wisp of a woman glided in and
smiled at me.

"Talar ni svensk?" she asked, but I had no idea what she meant. She may have been impertinent,
or even rude, or perhaps improper, but she looked as though she might be a domestic, and I
led her gently, reverently, to Letitia in the drawing-room. I smiled back at her, in a wild
endeavor to be sympathetic. I would have anointed her, or bathed her feet, or plied her with
figs and dates, or have done anything that any nationality craves as a welcome. As the front
door closed I heaved a sigh of relief. Here was probably the quintessence of five advertisements.
Out of the mountain crept a mouse, and quite a little mouse, too!

"Talar ni svensk?" proved to be nothing more outrageous than "Do you speak Swedish?" My astute
little wife discovered this intuitively. I left them together, my mental excuse being that
women understand each other and that a man is unnecessary, under the circumstances. I had some
misgivings on the subject of Letitia and svensk, but the universal language of femininity is
not without its uses. I devoutly hoped that Letitia would be able to come to terms, as the
mere idea of a cook who couldn't excoriate us in English was, at that moment, delightful. At
the end of a quarter of an hour I strolled back to the drawing-room. Letitia was smiling and
the hand-maiden sat grim and uninspired.

"I've engaged her, Archie," said Letitia. "She knows nothing, as she has told me in the few
words of English that she has picked up, but--you remember what Aunt Julia said about a clean
slate."

I gazed at the maiden, and reflected that while the term "slate" might be perfectly correct,
the adjective seemed a bit over-enthusiastic. She was decidely soiled, this quintessence of
a quintette of advertisements. I said nothing, anxious not to dampen Letitia's elation.

"She has no references," continued my wife, "as she has never been out before. She is just
a simple little Stockholm girl. I like her face immensely, Archie--immensely. She is willing
to begin at once, which shows that she is eager, and consequently likely to suit us. Wait for
me, Archie, while I take her to the kitchen. Kom, Gerda."

Exactly why Letitia couldn't say "Come, Gerda," seemed strange. She probably thought that Kom
must be Swedish, and that it sounded well. She certainly invented Kom on the spur of the Scandinavian
moment, and I learned afterward that it was correct. My inspired Letitia! Still, in spite of
all, my opinion is that "Come, Gerda," would have done just as well.

"Isn't it delightful?" cried Letitia, when she joined me later. "I am really enthusiastic at
the idea of a Swedish girl. I adore Scandinavia, Archie. It always makes me think of Ibsen.
Perhaps Gerda Lyberg--that's her name--will be as interesting as Hedda Gabler, and Mrs. Alving,
and Nora, and all those lovely complex Ibsen creatures."

"They were Norwegians, dear," I said gently, anxious not to shatter illusions; "the Ibsen plays
deal with Christiania, not with Stockholm."

"But they are so near," declared Letitia, amiable and seraphic once more. "Somehow or other,
I invariably mix up Norway and Sweden and Denmark. I know I shall always look upon Gerda as
an Ibsen girl, who has come here to 'live her life,' or 'work out her inheritance.' Perhaps,
dear, she has some interesting internal disease, or a maggoty brain. Don't you think, Archie,
that the Ibsen inheritances are always most fascinating? A bit morbid, but surely fascinating."

"I prefer a healthy cook, Letitia," I said meditatively, "somebody willing to interest herself
in our inheritance, rather than in her own."

"I don't mind what you say now," she pouted, "I am not to be put down by clamor. We really
have a cook at last, and I feel more lenient toward you, Archie. Of course I was only joking
when I suggested the Ibsen diseases. Gerda Lyberg may have inherited from her ancestors something
quite nice and attractive."

"Then you mustn't look upon her as Ibsen, Letitia," I protested. "The Ibsen people never inherit
nice things. Their ancestors always bequeath nasty ones. That is where their consistency comes
in. They are receptacles for horrors. Personally, if you'll excuse my flippancy, I prefer Norwegian
anchovies to Norwegian heroines. It is a mere matter of opinion."

"I'm ashamed of you," retorted Letitia defiantly. "You talk like some of the wretchedly frivolous
criticisms, so called, that men like Acton Davies and Alan Dale inflict upon the long-suffering
public. They never amuse me. Ibsen may make his heroines the recipients of ugly legacies, but
he has never yet cursed them with the odious incubus known as 'a sense of humor.' The people
with a sense of humor have something in their brains worse than maggots. We'll drop the subject,
Archie. I'm going to learn Swedish. Before Gerda Lyberg has been with us a month I intend to
be able to talk fluently. It will be most useful. Next time we go to Europe we'll take in Sweden,
and I'll do the piloting. I am going to buy some Swedish books, and study. Won't it be jolly?
And just think how melancholy we were this morning, you and I, looking out of that window,
and trying to materialize cooks. Wasn't it funny, Archie? What amusing experiences we shall
be able to chronicle, later on!"

Letitia babbled on like half a dozen brooks, and thinking up a gentle parody, in the shape
of, "cooks may come, and men may go," I decided to leave my household gods for the bread-earning
contest down-town. I could not feel quite as sanguine as Letitia, who seemed to have forgotten
the dismal results of the advertisement--just one little puny Swedish result. I should have
preferred to make a choice. Letitia was as pleased with Gerda Lyberg as though she had been
a selection instead of a that-or-nothing.

If somebody had dramatized Gerda Lyberg's initial dinner, it would probably have been considered
exceedingly droll. As a serious episode, however, its humor, to my mind, lacked spontaneity.
Letitia had asked her to cook us a little Swedish meal, so that we could get some idea of Stockholm
life, in which, for some reason or other, we were supposed to be deeply interested. Unfortunately
I was extremely hungry, and had carefully avoided luncheon in order to give my appetite a chance.
We sat down to a huge bowl of cold, greasy soup, in which enormous lumps of meat swam, as though
for their life, awaiting rescue at the prongs of a fork. In addition to this epicurean dish
was a teeming plate of water-soaked potatoes, delicately boiled. That was all. Letitia said
that it was Swedish, and the most annoying part of the entertainment was that I was alone in
my critical disapprobation. Letitia was so engrossed with a little Swedish conversation book
that she brought to table that she forgot the mere material question of food--forgot everything
but the horrible jargon she was studying, and the soiled, wisp-like maiden, who looked more
unlike a clean slate than ever.

"What shall I say to her, Archie?" asked Letitia, turning over the pages of her book, as I
tried to rescue a block of meat from the cold fat in which it lurked. "Here is a chapter on
dinner. 'I am very hungry,' 'Jag är myckel hungrig.' Rather pretty, isn't it? Hark at this:
'Kypare gif mig matsedeln och vinlistan.' That means: 'Waiter, give me the bill of fare, and
the list of wines.'"

"Don't," I cried; "don't. This woman doesn't know what dining means. Look out a chapter on
feeding."

Letitia was perfectly unruffled. She paid no attention to me whatsoever. She was fascinated
with the slovenly girl, who stood around and gaped at her Swedish.

"Gerda," said Letitia, with her eyes on the book, "Gif mir apven senap och nägra potäter."
And then, as Miss Lyberg dived for the drowned potatoes, Letitia exclaimed in an ecstasy of
joy, "She understands, Archie, she understands. I feel I am going to be a great success. Jag
tackar, Gerda. That means 'I thank you,' Jag tackar. See if you can say it, Archie. Just try,
dear, to oblige me. Jag tackar. Now, that's a good boy, jag tackar."

"I won't," I declared spitefully. "No jag tackaring for a parody like this, Letitia. You don't
seem to realize that I'm hungry. Honestly, I prefer a delicatessen dinner to this."

"'Pray, give me a piece of venison,'" read Letitia, absolutely disregarding my mood. "'Var
god och gif mig ett stycke vildt.' It is almost intelligible, isn't it, dear? 'Ni äter icke':
you do not eat."

"I can't," I asserted mournfully, anxious to gain Letitia's sympathy.

It was not forthcoming. Letitia's eyes were fastened on Gerda, and I could not help noting
on the woman's face an expression of scorn. I felt certain of it. She appeared to regard my
wife as a sort of irresponsible freak, and I was vexed to think that Letitia should make such
an exhibition of herself, and countenance the alleged meal that was set before us.

"'I have really dined very well,'" she continued joyously. "Jag har verkligen atit mycket bra.'"

"If you are quite sure that she doesn't understand English, Letitia," I said viciously, "I'll
say to you that this is a kind of joke I don't appreciate. I won't keep such a woman in the
house. Let us put on our things and go out and have dinner. Better late than never."

Letitia was turning over the pages of her book, quite lost to her surroundings. As I concluded
my remarks she looked up and exclaimed, "How very funny, Archie. Just as you said 'Better late
than never,' I came across that very phrase in the list of Swedish proverbs. It must be telepathy,
dear. 'Better late than never,' 'Battre sent än aldrig.' What were you saying on the subject,
dear? Will you repeat it? And do try it in Swedish. Say 'Battre sent än aldrig.'"

"Letitia," I shot forth in a fury, "I'm not in the humor for this sort of thing. I think this
dinner and this woman are rotten. See if you can find the word rotten in Swedish."

"I am surprised at you," Letitia declared glacially, roused from her book by my heroic though
unparliamentary language. "Your expressions are neither English nor Swedish. Please don't use
such gutter-words before a servant, to say nothing of your own wife."

"But she doesn't understand," I protested, glancing at Miss Lyberg. I could have sworn that
I detected a gleam in the woman's eyes and that the sphinx-like attitude of dull incomprehensibility
suggested a strenuous effort. "She doesn't understand anything. She doesn't want to understand."

"In a week from now," said Letitia, "she will understand everything perfectly, for I shall
be able to talk with her. Oh, Archie, do be agreeable. Can't you see that I am having great
fun? Don't be such a greedy boy. If you could only enter into the spirit of the thing, you
wouldn't be so oppressed by the food question. Oh, dear! How important it does seem to be to
men. Gerda, hur gammal är ni?"

The maiden sullenly left the room, and I felt convinced that Letitia had Swedishly asked her
to do so. I was wrong. "Hur gammal är ni," Letitia explained, simply meant, "How old are you?"

"She evidently didn't want to tell me," was my wife's comment, as we went to the drawing-room.
"I imagine, dear, that she doesn't quite like the idea of my ferreting out Swedish so persistently.
But I intend to persevere. The worst of conversation books is that one acquires a language
in such a parroty way. Now, in my book, the only answer to the question 'How old are you?'
is, 'I was born on the tenth of August, 1852.' For the life of me, I couldn't vary that, and
it would be most embarrassing. It would make me fifty-two. If any one asked me in Swedish how
old I was, I should have to be fifty-two!"

"When I think of my five advertisements," I said lugubriously, as I threw myself into an arm-chair,
fatigued at my efforts to discover dinner, "when I remember our expectation, and the pleasant
anticipations of to-day, I feel very bitter, Letitia. Just to think that from it all nothing
has resulted but that beastly mummy, that atrocious ossified thing."

"Archie, Archie!" said my wife warningly; "please be calm. Perhaps I was too engrossed with
my studies to note the deficiencies of dinner. But do remember that I pleaded with her for
a Swedish meal. The poor thing did what I asked her to do. Our dinner was evidently Swedish.
It was not her fault that I asked for it. To-morrow, dear, it shall be different. We had better
stick to the American régime. It is more satisfactory to you. At any rate, we have somebody
in the house, and if our five advertisements had brought forth five hundred applicants we should
only have kept one. So don't torture yourself, Archie. Try and imagine that we had five hundred
applicants, and that we selected Gerda Lyberg."

"I can't, Letitia," I said sulkily, and I heaved a heavy sigh.

"Come," she said soothingly, "come and study Swedish with me. It will be most useful for your
Lives of Great Men. You can read up the Swedes in the original. I'll entertain you with this
book, and you'll forget all about Mrs. Potz--I mean Gerda Lyberg. By-the-by, Archie, she doesn't
remind me so much of Hedda Gabler. I don't fancy that she is very subtile."

"You, Letitia," I retorted, "remind me of Mrs. Nickleby. You ramble on so."

Letitia looked offended. She always declared that Dickens "got on her nerves." She was one
of the new-fashioned readers who have learned to despise Dickens. Personally, I regretted only
his nauseating sense of humor. Letitia placed a cushion behind my head, smoothed my forehead,
kissed me, made her peace, and settled down by my side. Lack of nourishment made me drowsy,
and Letitia's babblings sounded vague and muffled.

"It is a most inclusive little book," she said, "and if I can succeed in memorizing it all
I shall be quite at home with the language. In fact, dear, I think I shall always keep Swedish
cooks. Hark at this: 'If the wind be favorable, we shall be at Gothenburg in forty hours.'
'Om vinden är god, sa äro vi pa pyrtio timmar i Goteborg.' I think it is sweetly pretty. 'You
are seasick.' 'Steward, bring me a glass of brandy and water.' 'We are now entering the harbor.'
'We are now anchoring.' 'Your passports, gentlemen.'"

A comfortable lethargy was stealing o'er me. Letitia took a pencil and paper, and made notes
as she plied the book. "A chapter on 'seeing a town' is most interesting, Archie. Of course,
it must be a Swedish town. 'Do you know the two private galleries of Mr. Smith, the merchant,
and Mr. Muller, the chancellor?' 'To-morrow morning I wish to see all the public buildings
and statues.' 'Statyerna' is Swedish for statues, Archie. Are you listening, dear? 'We will
visit the Church of the Holy Ghost, at two, then we will make an excursion on Lake Mälan and
see the fortress of Vaxholm.' It is a charming little book. Don't you think that it is a great
improvement on the old Ollendorff system? I don't find nonsensical sentences like 'The hat
of my aunt's sister is blue, but the nose of my brother-in-law's sister-in-law is red.'"

I rose and stretched myself. Letitia was still plunged in the irritating guide to Sweden, where
I vowed I would never go. Nothing on earth should ever induce me to visit Sweden. If it came
to a choice between Hoboken and Stockholm, I mentally determined to select the former. As I
paced the room I heard a curious splashing noise in the kitchen. Letitia's studies must have
dulled her ears. She was evidently too deeply engrossed.

I strolled nonchalantly into the hall, and proceeded deliberately toward the kitchen. The thick
carpet deadened my footsteps. The splashing noise grew louder. The kitchen door was closed.
I gently opened it. As I did so a wild scream rent the air. There stood Gerda Lyberg in--in--my
pen declines to write it--a simple unsophisticated birthday dress, taking an ingenuous reluctant
bath in the "stationary tubs," with the plates, and dishes, and dinner things grouped artistically
around her!

The instant she saw me she modestly seized a dish-towel and shouted at the top of her voice.
The kitchen was filled with the steam from the hot water. 'Venus arising' looked nebulous,
and mystic. I beat a hasty retreat, aghast at the revelation, and almost fell against Letitia,
who, dropping her conversation book, came to see what had happened.

"She's bathing!" I gasped, "in the kitchen--among the plates--near the soup--"

"Never!" cried Letitia. Then, melodramatically: "Let me pass. Stand aside, Archie. I'll go
and see. Perhaps--perhaps--you had better come with me."

"Letitia," I gurgled, "I'm shocked! She has nothing on but a dish-towel."

Letitia paused irresolutely for a second, and going into the kitchen shut the door. The splashing
noise ceased. I heard the sound of voices, or rather of a voice--Letitia's! Evidently she had
forgotten Swedish, and such remarks as "If the wind be favorable, we shall be at Gothenburg
in forty hours." I listened attentively, and could not even hear her say "We will visit the
Church of the Holy Ghost at two." It is strange how the stress of circumstances alters the
complexion of a conversation book! All the evening she had studied Swedish, and yet suddenly
confronted by a Swedish lady bathing in our kitchen, dish-toweled but unashamed, all she could
find to say was "How disgusting!" and "How disgraceful!" in English!

"You see," said Letitia, when she emerged, "she is just a simple peasant girl, and only needs
to be told. It is very horrid, of course."

"And unappetizing!" I chimed in.

"Of course--certainly unappetizing. I couldn't think of anything Swedish to say, but I said
several things in English. She was dreadfully sorry that you had seen her, and never contemplated
such a possibility. After all, Archie, bathing is not a crime."

"And we were hunting for a clean slate," I suggested satirically. "Do you think, Letitia, that
she also takes a cold bath in the morning, among the bacon and eggs, and things?"

"That is enough," said Letitia sternly. "The episode need not serve as an excuse for indelicacy."

It was with the advent of Gerda Lyberg that we became absolutely certain, beyond the peradventure
of any doubt, that there was such a thing as the servant question. The knowledge had been gradually
wafted in upon us, but it was not until the lady from Stockholm had definitively planted herself
in our midst that we admitted to ourselves openly, unblushingly, that the problem existed.
Gerda blazoned forth the enigma in all its force and defiance.

The remarkable thing about our latest acquisition was the singularly blank state of her gastronomic
mind. There was nothing that she knew. Most women, and a great many men, intuitively recognize
the physical fact that water, at a certain temperature, boils. Miss Lyberg, apparently seeking
to earn her living in the kitchen, had no certain views as to when the boiling point was reached.
Rumors seemed vaguely to have reached her that things called eggs dropped into water would,
in the course of time--any time, and generally less than a week--become eatable. Letitia bought
a little egg-boiler for her--one of those antique arrangements in which the sands of time play
to the soft-boiled egg. The maiden promptly boiled it with the eggs, and undoubtedly thought
that the hen, in a moment of perturbation, or aberration, had laid it. I say "thought" because
it is the only term I can use. It is, perhaps, inappropriate in connection with Gerda.

Potatoes, subjected to the action of hot water, grow soft. She was certain of that. Whether
she tested them with the poker, or with her hands or feet, we never knew. I inclined to the
last suggestion. The situation was quite marvelous. Here was an alleged worker, in a particular
field, asking the wages of skilled labor, and densely ignorant of every detail connected with
her task. It seemed unique. Carpenters, plumbers, bricklayers, seamstresses, dressmakers, laundresses--all
the sowers and reapers in the little garden of our daily needs, were forced by the inexorable
law of competition to possess some inkling of the significance of their undertakings. With
the cook it was different. She could step jubilantly into any kitchen without the slightest
idea of what she was expected to do there. If she knew that water was wet and that fire was
hot, she felt amply primed to demand a salary.

Impelled by her craving for Swedish literature, Letitia struggled with Miss Lyberg. Compared
with the Swede, my exquisitely ignorant wife was a culinary queen. She was an epicurean caterer.
Letitia's slate-pencil coffee was ambrosia for the gods, sweetest nectar, by the side of the
dishwater that cook prepared. I began to feel quite proud of her. She grew to be an adept in
the art of boiling water. If we could have lived on that fluid, everything would have moved
clockworkily.

"I've discovered one thing," said Letitia on the evening of the third day. "The girl is just
a peasant, probably a worker in the fields. That is why she is so ignorant."

I thought this reasoning foolish. "Even peasants eat, my dear," I muttered. "She must have
seen somebody cook something. Field-workers have good appetites. If this woman ever ate, what
did she eat and why can't we have the same? We have asked her for no luxuries. We have arrived
at the stage, my poor girl, when all we need is, prosaically, to 'fill up.' You have given
her opportunities to offer us samples of peasant food. The result has been nil."

"It is odd," Letitia declared, a wrinkle of perplexity appearing in the smooth surface of her
forehead. "Of course, she says she doesn't understand me. And yet, Archie, I have talked to
her in pure Swedish."

"I suppose you said, 'Pray give me a piece of venison,' from the conversation book."

"Don't be ridiculous, Archie. I know the Swedish for cauliflower, green peas, spinach, a leg
of mutton, mustard, roast meat, soup, and--"

"'If the wind be favorable, we shall be at Gothenburg in forty hours,'" I interrupted. She
was silent, and I went on: "It seems a pity to end your studies in Swedish, Letitia, but fascinating
though they be, they do not really necessitate our keeping this barbarian. You can always pursue
them, and exercise on me. I don't mind. Even with an American cook, if such a being exist,
you could still continue to ask for venison steak in Swedish, and to look forward to arriving
at Gothenburg in forty hours."

Letitia declined to argue. My mood was that known as cranky. We were in the drawing-room, after
what we were compelled to call dinner. It had consisted of steak burned to cinders, potatoes
soaked to a pulp, and a rice pudding that looked like a poultice the morning after, and possibly
tasted like one. Letitia had been shopping, and was therefore unable to supervise. Our delicate
repast was capped by "black" coffee of an indefinite straw-color, and with globules of grease
on the surface. People who can feel elated with the joy of living, after a dinner of this description,
are assuredly both mentally and morally lacking. Men and women there are who will say: "Oh,
give me anything. I'm not particular--so long as it is plain and wholesome." I've met many
of these people. My experience of them is that they are the greatest gluttons on earth, with
veritably voracious appetites, and that the best isn't good enough for them. To be sure, at
a pinch, they will demolish a score of potatoes, if there be nothing else; but offer them caviare,
canvas-back duck, quail, and nesselrode pudding, and they will look askance at food that is
plain and wholesome. The "plain and wholesome" liver is a snare and a delusion, like the "bluff
and genial" visitor whose geniality veils all sorts of satire and merciless comment.

Letitia and I both felt weak and miserable. We had made up our minds not to dine out. We were
resolved to keep the home up, even if, in return, the home kept us down. Give in, we wouldn't.
Our fighting blood was up. We firmly determined not to degenerate into that clammy American
institution, the boarding-house feeder and the restaurant diner. We knew the type; in the feminine,
it sits at table with its bonnet on, and a sullen gnawing expression of animal hunger; in the
masculine, it puts its own knife in the butter, and uses a toothpick. No cook--no lack of cook--should
drive us to these abysmal depths.

Letitia made no feint at Ovid. I simply declined to breathe the breath of The Lives of Great
Men. She read a sweet little classic called "The Table; How to Buy Food, How to Cook It, and
How to Serve It," by Alessandro Filippini--a delightful table-d'hôte-y name. I lay back in
my chair and frowned, waiting until Letitia chose to break the silence. As she was a most chattily
inclined person on all occasions, I reasoned that I should not have to wait long. I was right.

"Archie," said she, "according to this book, there is no place in the civilized world that
contains so large a number of so-called high-livers as New York City, which was educated by
the famous Delmonico and his able lieutenants."

"Great Heaven!" I exclaimed with a groan, "why rub it in, Letitia? I should also say that no
city in the world contained so large a number of low-livers."

"'Westward the course of Empire sways,'" she read, "'and the great glory of the past has departed
from those centers where the culinary art at one time defied all rivals. The scepter of supremacy
has passed into the hands of the metropolis of the New World.'"

"What sickening cant!" I cried. "What fiendishly exaggerated restaurant talk! There are perhaps
fifty fine restaurants in New York. In Paris there are five hundred finer. Here we have places
to eat in; there they have artistic resorts to dine in. One can dine anywhere in Paris. In
New York, save for those fifty fine restaurants, one feeds. Don't read any more of your cook-book
to me, my girl. It is written to catch the American trade, with the subtile pen of flattery."

"Try and be patriotic, dear," she said soothingly. "Of course, I know you wouldn't allow a
Frenchman to say all that, and that you are just talking cussedly with your own wife."

A ring at the bell caused a diversion. We hailed it. We were in the humor to hail anything.
The domestic hearth was most trying. We were bored to death. I sprang up and ran to the door,
a little pastime to which I was growing accustomed. Three tittering young women, each wearing
a hat in which roses, violets, poppies, cornflowers, forget-me-nots, feathers and ribbons ran
riot, confronted me.

"Miss Gerda Lyberg?" said the foremost, who wore a bright red gown, and from whose hat six
spiteful poppies lurched forward and almost hit me in the face.

For a moment, dazed from the cook-book, I was nonplussed. All I could say was "No," meaning
that I wasn't Miss Gerda Lyberg. I felt so sure that I wasn't that I was about to close the door.

"She lives here, I believe," asserted the damsel, again shooting forth the poppies.

I came to myself with an effort. "She is the--the cook," I muttered weakly.

"We are her friends," quoth the damsel, an indignant inflection in her voice. "Kindly let us
in. We've come to the Thursday sociable."

The three bedizened ladies entered without further parley and went toward the kitchen, instinctively
recognizing its direction. I was amazed. I heard a noisy greeting, a peal of laughter, a confusion
of tongues, and then--I groped my way back to Letitia.

"They've come to the Thursday sociable!" I cried.

"Who?" she asked in astonishment, and I imparted to her the full extent of my knowledge. Letitia
took it very nicely. She had always heard, she said, in fact Mrs. Archer had told her, that
Thursday nights were festival occasions with the Swedes. She thought it rather a pleasant and
convivial notion. Servants must enjoy themselves, after all. Better a happy gathering of girls
than a rowdy collection of men. Letitia thought the idea felicitous. She had no objections
to giving privileges to a cook. Nor had I, for the matter of that. I ventured to remark, however,
that Gerda didn't seem to be a cook.

"Then let us call her a 'girl,'" said Letitia.

"Gerda is a girl, only because she isn't a boy," I remarked tauntingly. "If by 'girl' you even
mean servant, then Gerda isn't a girl. Goodness knows what she is. Hello! Another ring!"

This time Miss Lyberg herself went to the door, and we listened. More arrivals for the sociable;
four Swedish guests, all equally gaily attired in flower hats. Some of them wore bangles, the
noise of which, in the hall, sounded like an infuriation of sleigh-bells. They were Christina
and Sophie and Sadie and Alexandra--as we soon learned. It was wonderful how welcome Gerda
made them, and how quickly they were "at home." They rustled through the halls, chatting and
laughing and humming. Such merry girls! Such light-hearted little charmers! Letitia stood looking
at them through the crack of the drawing-room door. Perhaps it was just as well that somebody
should have a good time in our house.

"Just the same, Letitia," I observed, galled, "I think I should say to-morrow that this invasion
is most impertinent--most uncalled for."

"Yes, Archie," said Letitia demurely, "you think you should say it. But please don't think
I shall, for I assure you that I shan't. I suppose that we must discharge her. She can't do
anything and she doesn't want to learn. I don't blame her. She can always get the wages she
asks by doing nothing. You would pursue a similar policy, Archie, if it were possible. Everybody
would. But all other laborers must know how to labor."

I was glad to hear Letitia echoing my sentiments. She was quite unconsciously plagiarizing.
Once again she took up the cook-book. The sound of merrymaking in the kitchen drifted in upon
us. From what we could gather, Gerda seemed to be "dressing up" for the delectation of her
guests. Shrieks of laughter and clapping of hands made us wince. My nerves were on edge. Had
any one at that moment dared to suggest that there was even a suspicion of humor in these proceedings
I should have slain him without compunction. Letitia was less irate and tried to comfort me.

Letitia sighed, and shut up the cook-book. Eggs à la reine seemed as difficult as trigonometry,
or conic sections, or differential calculus--and much more expensive. Certainly the eight giggling
cooks in the kitchen, now at the very height of their exhilaration, worried themselves little
about such concoctions. My nerves again began to play pranks. The devilish pandemonium infuriated
me. Letitia was tired and wanted to go to bed. I was tired and hungry and disillusioned. It
was close upon midnight and the Swedish Thursday was about over. I thought it unwise to allow
them even an initial minute of Friday. When the clock struck twelve, I marched majestically
to the kitchen, threw open the door, revealed the octette in the enjoyment of a mound of ice-cream
and a mountain of cake--that in my famished condition made my mouth water--and announced in
a severe, yet subdued tone, that the revel must cease.

"You must go at once," I said, "I am going to shut up the house."

Then I withdrew and waited. There was a delay, during which a Babel of tongues was let loose,
and then Miss Lyberg's seven guests were heard noisily leaving the house. Two minutes later,
there was a knock at our door and Miss Lyberg appeared, her eyes blazing, her face flushed
and the expression of the hunted antelope defiantly asserting that it would never be brought
to bay, on her perspiring features.

"You've insulted my guests!" she cried, in English as good as my own. "I've had to turn them
out of the house, and I've had about enough of this place."

Letitia's face was a psychological study. Amazement, consternation, humiliation--all seemed
determined to possess her. Here was the obtuse Swede, for whose dear sake she had dallied with
the intricacies of the language of Stockholm, furiously familiar with admirable English! The
dense, dumb Scandinavian--the lady of the "me no understand" rejoinder--apparently had the
"gift of tongues." Letitia trembled. Rarely have I seen her so thoroughly perturbed. Yet seemingly
she was unwilling to credit the testimony of her own ears, for with sudden energy, she confronted
Miss Lyberg, and exclaimed imperiously, in Swedish that was either pure or impure: "Tig. Ga
din väg!"

"Ah, come off!" cried the handmaiden insolently. "I understand English. I haven't been in this
country fifteen years for nothing. It's just on account of folks like you that poor hard-working
girls, who ain't allowed to take no baths or entertain no lady friends, have to protect themselves.
Pretend not to understand them, says I. I've found it worked before this. If they think you
don't understand 'em, they'll let you alone and stop worriting. It's like your impidence to
turn my lady-friends out of this flat. It's like your impidence. I'll--"

Letitia's crestfallen look, following upon her perturbation, completely upset me. A wave of
indignation swamped me. I advanced, and in another minute Miss Gerda Lyberg would have found
herself in the hall, impelled there by a persuasive hand upon her shoulder. However, it was
not to be.

"You just lay a hand on me," she said with cold deliberation, and a smile, "and I'll have you
arrested for assault. Oh, I know the law. I haven't been in this country fifteen years for
nothing. The law looks after poor weak, Swedish girls. Just push me out. It's all I ask. Just
you push me out."

She edged up to me defiantly. My blood boiled. I would have mortgaged the prospects of my Lives
of Great Men (not that they were worth mortgaging) for the exquisite satisfaction of confounding
this abominable woman. Then I saw the peril of the situation. I thought of horrid headliners
in the papers: "Author charged with abusing servant girl," or, "Arrest of Archibald Fairfax
on serious charge," and my mood changed.

"I understood you all the time," continued Miss Lyberg insultingly. "I listened to you. I knew
what you thought of me. Now I'm telling you what I think of you. The idea of turning out my
lady-friends, on a Thursday night, too! And me a-slaving for them, and a-bathing for them,
and a-treating them to ice cream and cake, and in me own kitchen. You ain't no lady. As for
you"--I seemed to be her particular pet--"when I sees a man around the house all the time,
a-molly-coddling and a-fussing, I says to myself, he ain't much good if he can't trust the
women folk alone."

We stood there like dummies, listening to the tirade. What could we do? To be sure, there were
two of us, and we were in our own house. The antagonist, however, was a servant, not in her
own house. The situation, for reasons that it is impossible to define, was hers. She knew it,
too. We allowed her full sway, because we couldn't help it. The sympathy of the public, in
case of violent measures, would not have been on our side. The poor domestic, oppressed and
enslaved, would have appealed to any jury of married men, living luxuriously in cheap boarding-houses!

When she left us, as she did when she was completely ready to do so, Letitia began to cry.
The sight of her tears unnerved me, and I checked a most unfeeling remark that I intended to
make to the effect that, "if the wind be favorable, we shall be at Gothenburg in forty hours."

"It's not that I mind her insolence," she sobbed, "we were going to send her off anyway, weren't
we? But it's so humiliating to be 'done.' We've been 'done.' Here have I been working hard
at Swedish--writing exercises, learning verbs, studying proverbs--just to talk to a woman who
speaks English as well as I do. It's--it's--so--so--mor--mortifying."

"Never mind, dear," I said, drying her eyes for her; "the Swedish will come in handy some day."

"No," she declared vehemently, "don't say that you'll take me to Sweden. I wouldn't go to the
hateful country. It's a hideous language, anyway, isn't it, Archie? It is a nasty, laconic,
ugly tongue. You heard me say Tig to her just now. Tig means 'be silent.' Could anything sound
more repulsive? Tig! Tig! Ugh!"

Letitia stamped her foot. She was exceeding wroth.

SIMILAR CASES

BY CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN

    There was once a little animal,
      No bigger than a fox,
    And on five toes he scampered
      Over Tertiary rocks.
    They called him Eohippus,
      And they called him very small,
    And they thought him of no value--
      When they thought of him at all;
    For the lumpish old Dinoceras
      And Coryphodon so slow
    Were the heavy aristocracy
      In days of long ago.

    Said the little Eohippus,
      "I am going to be a horse!
    And on my middle finger-nails
      To run my earthly course!
    I'm going to have a flowing tail!
      I'm going to have a mane!
    I'm going to stand fourteen hands high
      On the psychozoic plain!"

    The Coryphodon was horrified,
      The Dinoceras was shocked;
    And they chased young Eohippus,
      But he skipped away and mocked;
    Then they laughed enormous laughter,
      And they groaned enormous groans,
    And they bade young Eohippus
      Go view his father's bones:
    Said they, "You always were as small
      And mean as now we see,
    And that's conclusive evidence
      That you're always going to be:
    What! Be a great, tall, handsome beast,
      With hoofs to gallop on?
    Why, you'd have to change your nature!"
      Said the Loxolophodon:
    They considered him disposed of,
      And retired with gait serene;
    That was the way they argued
      In "the early Eocene."

    There was once an Anthropoidal Ape,
      Far smarter than the rest,
    And everything that they could do
      He always did the best;
    So they naturally disliked him,
      And they gave him shoulders cool,
    And when they had to mention him
      They said he was a fool.

    Cried this pretentious Ape one day,
      "I'm going to be a Man!
    And stand upright, and hunt, and fight,
      And conquer all I can!
    I'm going to cut down forest trees,
      To make my houses higher!
    I'm going to kill the Mastodon!
      I'm going to make a fire!"

    Loud screamed the Anthropoidal Apes,
      With laughter wild and gay;
    They tried to catch that boastful one,
      But he always got away;
    So they yelled at him in chorus,
      Which he minded not a whit;
    And they pelted him with cocoanuts,
      Which didn't seem to hit;
    And then they gave him reasons,
      Which they thought of much avail,
    To prove how his preposterous
      Attempt was sure to fail.

    Said the sages, "In the first place,
      The thing can not be done!
    And, second, if it could be,
      It would not be any fun!
    And, third, and most conclusive
      And admitting no reply,
    You would have to change your nature!
      We should like to see you try!"
    They chuckled then triumphantly,
      These lean and hairy shapes,
    For these things passed as arguments
      With the Anthropoidal Apes.

    There was once a Neolithic Man,
      An enterprising wight,
    Who made his chopping implements
      Unusually bright;
    Unusually clever he,
      Unusually brave,
    And he drew delightful Mammoths
      On the borders of his cave.

    To his Neolithic neighbors,
      Who were startled and surprised,
    Said he, "My friends, in course of time,
      We shall be civilized!
    We are going to live in cities!
      We are going to fight in wars!
    We are going to eat three times a day
      Without the natural cause!
    We are going to turn life upside down
      About a thing called gold!
    We are going to want the earth, and take
      As much as we can hold!
    We are going to wear great piles of stuff
      Outside our proper skins!
    We are going to have Diseases!
      And Accomplishments!! And Sins!!!"

    Then they all rose up in fury
      Against their boastful friend,
    For prehistoric patience
      Cometh quickly to an end:
    Said one, "This is chimerical!
      Utopian! Absurd!"
    Said another, "What a stupid life!
      Too dull, upon my word!"
    Cried all, "Before such things can come,
      You idiotic child,
    You must alter Human Nature!"
      And they all sat back and smiled:
    Thought they, "An answer to that last
      It will be hard to find!"
    It was a clinching argument
      To the Neolithic Mind!

THE OLD MAID'S HOUSE: IN PLAN

BY ELIZABETH STUART PHELPS

Corona had five hundred dollars and some pluck for her enterprise. She had also at her command
a trifle for furnishing. But that seemed very small capital. Her friends at large discouraged
her generously. Even Tom said he didn't know about that, and offered her three hundred more.

This manly offer she declined in a womanly manner.

"It is to be my house, thank you, Tom, dear. I can live in yours at home." ...

Corona's architectural library was small. She found on the top shelf one book on the construction
of chicken-roosts, a pamphlet in explanation of the kindergarten system, a cook-book that had
belonged to her grandmother, and a treatise on crochet. There her domestic literature came
to an end. She accordingly bought a book entitled "North American Homes"; then, having, in
addition, begged or borrowed everything within two covers relating to architecture that was
to be found in her immediate circle of acquaintance, she plunged into that unfamiliar science
with hopeful zeal.

The result of her studies was a mixed one. It was necessary, it seemed, to construct the North
American home in so many contradictory methods, or else fail forever of life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness, that Corona felt herself to be laboring under a chronic aberration
of mind.... Then the plans. Well, the plans, it must be confessed, Corona did find it difficult
to understand. She always had found it difficult to understand such things; but then she had
hoped several weeks of close architectural study would shed light upon the density of the subject.
She grew quite morbid about it. She counted the steps when she went up-stairs to bed at night.
She estimated the bedroom post when she walked in the cold, gray dawn....

But the most perplexing thing about the plans was how one story ever got upon another. Corona's
imagination never fully grappled with this fact, although her intellect accepted it. She took
her books down-stairs one night, and Susy came and looked them over.

"Why, these houses are all one-story," said Susy. "Besides, they're nothing but lines, anyway.
I shouldn't draw a house so."

Corona laughed with some embarrassment and no effort at enlightenment. She was not used to
finding herself and Susy so nearly on the same intellectual level as in this instance. She
merely asked: "How should you draw it?"

"Why, so," said Susy, after some severe thought. So she took her little blunt lead pencil,
that the baby had chewed, and drew her plan as follows:

Corona made no comment upon this plan, except to ask Susy if that were the way to spell L;
and then to look in the dictionary, and find that it was not spelled at all. Tom came in, and
asked to see what they were doing.

"I'm helping Corona," said Susy, with much complacency. "These architects' things don't look
any more like houses than they do like the first proposition in Euclid; and the poor girl is
puzzled."

"I'll help you to-morrow, Co," said Tom, who was in too much of a hurry to glance at his wife's
plan. But to-morrow Tom went into town by the early train, and when Corona emerged from her
"North American Homes," with wild eye and knotted brow, at 5 o'clock p.m., she found Susy crying
over a telegram which ran:

     Called to California immediately. Those lost cargoes A No. 1 hides
     turned up. Can't get home to say good-by. Send overcoat and
     flannels by Simpson on midnight express. Gone four weeks. Love to
     all.

     TOM.

This unexpected event threw Corona entirely upon her own resources; and, after a few days more
of patient research, she put on her hat, and stole away at dusk to a builder she knew of down-town--a
nice, fatherly man who had once built a piazza for Tom and had just been elected superintendent
of the Sunday-school. These combined facts gave Corona confidence to trust her case to his
hands. She carried a neat little plan of her own with her, the result of several days' hard
labor. Susy's plan she had taken the precaution to cut into paper dolls for the baby. Corona
found the good man at home, and in her most business-like manner presented her points.

"Got any plan in yer own head?" asked the builder, hearing her in silence. In silence Corona
laid before him the paper which had cost her so much toil.

It was headed in her clear black hand:

  PLAN
  FOR A SMALL BUT HAPPY
  HOME

This was

"Well," said the builder, after a silence,--"well, I've seen worse."

"Thank you," said Corona, faintly.

"How does she set?" asked the builder.

"Who set?" said Corona, a little wildly. She could think of nothing that set but hens.

"Why, the house. Where's the points o' compass?"

"I hadn't thought of those," said Corona.

"And the chimney," suggested the builder. "Where's your chimneys?"

"I didn't put in any chimneys," said Corona.

"Where did you count on your stairs?" pursued the builder.

"Stairs? I--forgot the stairs."

"That's natural," said Mr. Timbers. "Had a plan brought me once without an entry or a window
to it. It wasn't a woman did it, neither. It was a widower, in the noospaper line. What's your
scale?"

"Scale?" asked Corona, without animation.

"Scale of feet. Proportions."

"Oh! I didn't have any scales, but I thought about forty feet front would do. I have but five
hundred dollars. A small house must answer."

The builder smiled. He said he would show her some plans. He took a book from his table and
opened at a plate representing a small, snug cottage, not uncomely. It stood in a flourishing
apple-orchard, and a much larger house appeared dimly in the distance, upon a hill. The cottage
was what is called a "story-and-half" and contained six rooms. The plan was drawn with the
beauty of science.

"There," said Mr. Timbers, "I know a lady built one of those upon her brother-in-law's land.
He give her the land, and she just put up the cottage, and they was all as pleasant as pease
about it. That's about what I'd recommend to you, if you don't object to the name of it."

"What is the matter with the name?" asked Corona.

"Why," said the builder, hesitating, "it is called the Old Maid's House--in the book."

"Mr. Timbers," said Corona, with decision, "why should we seek further than the truth? I will
have that house. Pray, draw me the plan at once."

THE QUARREL

BY S.E. KISER

    "There are quite as good fish
              In the sea
      As any one ever has caught,"
              Said he.
    "But few of the fish--
              In the sea
      Will bite at such bait as you've got,"
              Said she.
    To-day he is gray, and his line's put away,
      But he often looks back with regret;
    She's still "in the sea," and how happy she'd be
      If he were a fisherman yet!

A LETTER FROM MR. BIGGS

BY E.W. HOWE

MY DEAR SIR--Occasionally a gem occurs to me which I am unable to favor you with because of
late we are not much together. Appreciating the keen delight with which you have been kind
enough to receive my philosophy, I take the liberty of sending herewith a number of ideas which
may please and benefit you, and which I have divided into paragraphs with headings.

HAPPINESS

I have observed that happiness and brains seldom go together. The pin-headed woman who regards
her thin-witted husband as the greatest man in the world, is happy, and much good may it do
her. In such cases ignorance is a positive blessing, for good sense would cause the woman to
realize her distressed condition. A man who can think he is as "good as anybody" is happy.
The fact may be notorious that the man is not so "good as anybody" until he is as industrious,
as educated, and as refined as anybody, but he has not brains enough to know this, and, content
with conceit, is happy. A man with a brain large enough to understand mankind is always wretched
and ashamed of himself.

REPUTATION

Reputation is not always desirable. The only thing I have ever heard said in Twin Mounds concerning
Smoky Hill is that good hired girls may be had there.

WOMEN

1. Most women seem to love for no other reason than that it is expected of them.

2. I know too much about women to honor them more than they deserve; in fact I know all about
them. I visited a place once where doctors are made, and saw them cut up one.

3. A woman loses her power when she allows a man to find out all there is to her; I mean by
this that familiarity breeds contempt. I knew a young man once who worked beside a woman in
an office, and he never married.

4. If men would only tell what they actually know about women, instead of what they believe
or hear, they would receive more credit for chastity than is now the case, for they deserve more.

LACK OF SELF-CONFIDENCE

As a people we lack self-confidence. The country is full of men that will readily talk you
to death privately, who would run away in alarm if asked to preside at a public meeting. In
my Alliance movement I often have trouble in getting out a crowd, every farmer in the neighborhood
feeling of so much importance as to fear that if he attends he will be called upon to say something.

IN DISPUTE

In some communities where I have lived the women were mean to their husbands; in others, the
husbands were mean to their wives. It is usually the case that the friends of a wife believe
her husband to be a brute, and the friends of the husband believe the wife to possess no other
talent than to make him miserable. You can't tell how it is; the evidence is divided.

MAN

There is only one grade of men; they are all contemptible. The judge may seem to be a superior
creature so long as he keeps at a distance, for I have never known one who was not constantly
trying to look wise and grave; but when you know him, you find there is nothing remarkable
about him except a plug hat, a respectable coat, and a great deal of vanity, induced by the
servility of those who expect favors.

OPPORTUNITY

You hear a great many persons regretting lack of opportunity. If every man had opportunity
for his desires, this would be a nation of murderers and disgraced women.

EXPECTATION

Always be ready for that which you do not expect. Nothing that you expect ever happens. You
have perhaps observed that when you are waiting for a visitor at the front door, he comes in
at the back, and surprises you.

WOMAN'S WORK

A woman's work is never done, as the almanacs state, for the reason that she does not go about
it in time to finish it.

THE GREATEST OF THESE IS CHARITY

If you can not resist the low impulse to talk about people, say only what you actually know,
instead of what you have heard. And, while you are about it, stop and consider whether you
are not in need of charity yourself.

NEIGHBORS

Every man overestimates his neighbors, because he does not know them so well as he knows himself.
A sensible man despises himself because he knows what a contemptible creature he is. I despise
Lytle Biggs, but I happen to know that his neighbors are just as bad.

VIRTUE

Men are virtuous because the women are; women are virtuous from necessity.

ASHAMED OF THE TRUTH

I believe I never knew any one who was not ashamed of the truth. Did you ever notice that a
railroad company numbers its cars from 1,000, instead of from 1?

KNOWING ONLY ONE OF THEM

We are sometimes unable to understand why a pretty little woman marries a fellow we know to
be worthless; but the fellow, who knows the woman better than we do, considers that he has
thrown himself away. We know the fellow, but we do not know the woman.

AN APOLOGY

I detest an apology. The world is full of people who are always making trouble and apologizing
for it. If a man respects me, he will not give himself occasion for apology. An offense can
not be wiped out in that way. If it could, we would substitute apologies for hangings. I hope
you will never apologize to me; I should regard it as evidence that you had wronged me.

OLDEST INHABITANTS

The people of Smoky Hill are only fit for oldest inhabitants. In thirty or forty years from
now there will be a great demand for reminiscences of the pioneer days. I recommend that they
preserve extensive data for the only period in their lives when they can hope to attract attention.

Be good enough, sir, to regard me, as of old, your friend.

L. BIGGS. To NED WESTLOCK, Twin Mounds.

PASS

BY IRONQUILL

    A father said unto his hopeful son,
    "Who was Leonidas, my cherished one?"
    The boy replied, with words of ardent nature,
    "He was a member of the legislature."
    "How?" asked the parent; then the youngster saith:
    "He got a pass, and held her like grim death."
    "Whose pass? what pass?" the anxious father cried;
    "'Twas the'r monopoly," the boy replied.

    In deference to the public, we must state,
    That boy has been an orphan since that date.

TEACHING BY EXAMPLE

BY JOHN G. SAXE

    "What is the 'Poet's License,' say?"
      Asked rose-lipped Anna of a poet.
    "Now give me an example, pray,
      That when I see one I may know it."
    Quick as a flash he plants a kiss
      Where perfect kisses always fall.
    "Nay, sir! what liberty is this?"
      "The Poet's License,--that is all!"

WHEN ALBANI SANG[1]

BY WILLIAM HENRY DRUMMOND

    Was workin' away on de farm dere, wan morning not long ago,
    Feexin' de fence for winter--'cos dat's w'ere we got de snow!
    W'en Jeremie Plouffe, ma neighbor, come over an' spik wit' me,
    "Antoine, you will come on de city, for hear Ma-dam All-ba-nee?"

    "W'at you mean?" I was sayin' right off, me, "Some woman was mak'
        de speech,
    Or girl on de Hooraw Circus, doin' high kick an' screech?"
    "Non--non," he is spikin'--"Excuse me, dat's be Madam All-ba-nee
    Was leevin' down here on de contree, two mile 'noder side Chambly.

    "She's jus' comin' over from Englan', on steamboat arrive Kebeck,
    Singin' on Lunnon an' Paree, an' havin' beeg tam, I ex-pec',
    But no matter de moche she enjoy it, for travel all roun' de worl',
    Somet'ing on de heart bring her back here, for she was de Chambly girl.

    "She never do not'ing but singin' an' makin' de beeg grande tour
    An' travel on summer an' winter, so mus' be de firs' class for sure!
    Ev'ryboddy I'm t'inkin' was know her, an' I also hear 'noder t'ing,
    She's frien' on La Reine Victoria an' show her de way to sing!"

    "Wall," I say, "you're sure she is Chambly, w'at you call Ma-dam
        All-ba-nee?
    Don't know me dat nam' on de Canton--I hope you're not fool wit' me?"
    An he say, "Lajeunesse, dey was call her, before she is come mariée,
    But she's takin' de nam' of her husban'--I s'pose dat's de only way."

    "C'est bon, mon ami," I was say me, "If I get t'roo de fence nex' day
    An' she don't want too moche on de monee, den mebbe I see her play."
    So I finish dat job on to-morrow, Jeremie he was helpin' me too,
    An' I say, "Len' me t'ree dollar quickly for mak' de voyage wit' you."

    Correc'--so we're startin' nex' morning, an' arrive Montreal all right,
    Buy dollar tiquette on de bureau, an' pass on de hall dat night.
    Beeg crowd, wall! I bet you was dere too, all dress on some fancy
        dress,
    De lady, I don't say not'ing, but man's all w'ite shirt an' no ves'.

    Don't matter, w'en ban' dey be ready, de foreman strek out wit' hees
        steek,
    An' fiddle an' ev'ryt'ing else too, begin for play up de musique.
    It's fonny t'ing too dey was playin' don't lak it mese'f at all,
    I rader be lissen some jeeg, me, or w'at you call "Affer de ball."

    An' I'm not feelin' very surprise den, w'en de crowd holler out,
        "Encore,"
    For mak' all dem feller commencin' an' try leetle piece some more,
    'Twas better wan' too, I be t'inkin', but slow lak you're goin' to die,
    All de sam', noboddy say not'ing, dat mean dey was satisfy.

    Affer dat come de Grande piano, lak we got on Chambly Hotel,
    She's nice lookin' girl was play dat, so of course she's go off purty
        well,
    Den feller he's ronne out an' sing some, it's all about very fine moon,
    Dat shine on Canal, ev'ry night too, I'm sorry I don't know de tune.

    Nex' t'ing I commence get excite, me, for I don't see no great Ma-dam
        yet,
    Too bad I was los all dat monee, an' too late for de raffle tiquette!
    W'en jus' as I feel very sorry, for come all de way from Chambly,
    Jeremie he was w'isper, "Tiens, tiens, prenez garde, she's comin' Ma-dam
        All-ba-nee!"

    Ev'ryboddy seem glad w'en dey see her, come walkin' right down de
        platform,
    An' way dey mak' noise on de han' den, w'y! it's jus' lak de beeg
        tonder storm!
    I'll never see not'ing lak dat, me, no matter I travel de worl',
    An' Ma-dam, you t'ink it was scare her? Non, she laugh lak de Chambly
        girl!

    Dere was young feller comin' behin' her, walk nice, comme un Cavalier,
    An' before All-ba-nee she is ready an' piano get startin' for play,
    De feller commence wit' hees singin', more stronger dan all de res',
    I t'ink he's got very bad manner, know not'ing at all politesse.

    Ma-dam, I s'pose she get mad den, an' before anyboddy can spik,
    She settle right down for mak' sing too, an' purty soon ketch heem up
        quick,
    Den she's kip it on gainin' an' gainin', till de song it is tout finis,
    An' w'en she is beatin' dat feller, Bagosh! I am proud Chambly!

    I'm not very sorry at all, me, w'en de feller was ronnin' away,
    An' man he's come out wit' de piccolo, an' start heem right off for
        play,
    For it's kin' de musique I be fancy, Jeremie he is lak it also,
    An' wan de bes' t'ing on dat ev'ning is man wit' de piccolo!

    Den mebbe ten minute is passin', Ma-dam she is comin' encore,
    Dis tam all alone on de platform, dat feller don't show up no more,
    An' w'en she start off on de singin' Jeremie say, "Antoine, dat's
        Français,"
    Dis give us more pleasure, I tole you, 'cos w'y? We're de pure Canayen!

    Dat song I will never forget me, 't was song of de leetle bird,
    W'en he's fly from it's nes' on de tree top, 'fore res' of de worl' get
        stirred,
    Ma-dam she was tole us about it, den start off so quiet an' low,
    An' sing lak de bird on de morning, de poor leetle small oiseau.

    I 'member wan tam I be sleepin' jus' onder some beeg pine tree
    An song of de robin wak' me, but robin he don't see me,
    Dere's not'ing for scarin' dat bird dere, he's feel all alone on de
        worl',
    Wall! Ma-dam she mus' lissen lak dat too, w'en she was de Chambly girl!

    Cos how could she sing dat nice chanson, de sam' as de bird I was hear,
    Till I see it de maple an' pine tree an' Richelieu ronnin' near,
    Again I'm de leetle feller, lak young colt upon de spring
    Dat's jus' on de way I was feel, me, w'en Ma-dam All-ba-nee is sing!

    An' affer de song it is finish, an' crowd is mak' noise wit' its han',
    I s'pose dey be t'inkin' I'm crazy, dat mebbe I don't onderstan',
    Cos I'm set on de chair very quiet, mese'f an' poor Jeremie,
    An' I see dat hees eye it was cry too, jus' sam' way it go wit' me.

    Dere's rosebush outside on our garden, ev'ry spring it has got new
        nes',
    But only wan bluebird is buil' dere, I know her from all de res',
    An' no matter de far she be flyin' away on de winter tam,
    Back to her own leetle rosebush she's comin' dere jus' de sam'.

    We're not de beeg place on our Canton, mebbe cole on de winter, too,
    But de heart's "Canayen" on our body an' dat's warm enough for true!
    An' w'en All-ba-nee was got lonesome for travel all roun' de worl'
    I hope she'll come home, lak de bluebird, an' again be de Chambly girl!

[Footnote 1: From "The Habitant and Other French Canadian Poems," by William Henry Drummond.
The A.C.!"

    Parson Wilbur sez he never heerd in his life
      Thet th' Apostles rigged out in their swaller-tail coats,
    An' marched round in front of a drum an' a fife,
      To git some on 'em office, an' some on 'em votes;
            But John P.
            Robinson he
    Sez they didn't know everythin' down in Judee.

    Wall, it's a marcy we've gut folks to tell us
      The rights an' the wrongs o' these matters, I vow,--
    God sends country lawyers, an' other wise fellers,
      To start the world's team wen it gits in a slough;
            Fer John P.
            Robinson he
    Sez the world'll go right, ef he hollers out Gee!

THE DAY WE DO NOT CELEBRATE

BY ROBERT J. BURDETTE

    One famous day in great July
    John Adams said, long years gone by,

    "This day that makes a people free
    Shall be the people's jubilee,

    With games, guns, sports, and shows displayed,
    With bells, pomp, bonfires, and parade,

    Throughout this land, from shore to shore,
    From this time forth, forevermore."

    The years passed on, and by and by,
    Men's hearts grew cold in hot July.

    And Mayor Hawarden Cholmondely said
    "Hof rockets Hi ham sore hafraid;

    Hand hif you send one hup hablaze,
    Hi'll send you hup for sixty days."

    Then said the Mayor O'Shay McQuade,
    "Thayre uz no nade fur no perade."

    And Mayor Hans Von Schwartzenmeyer
    Proclaimed, "I'll haf me no bonfier!"

    Said Mayor Baptiste Raphael
    "No make-a ring-a dat-a bell!"

    "By gar!" cried Mayor Jean Crapaud,
    "Zis July games vill has to go!"

    And Mayor Knud Christofferrssonn
    Said, "Djeath to hjjim who fjjres a gjjunn!"

    At last, cried Mayor Wun Lung Lee--
    "Too muchee hoop-la boberee!"

    And so the Yankee holiday,
    Of proclamations passed away.

THE YANKEE DUDE'LL DO

BY S.E. KISER

    When Cholly swung his golf-stick on the links,
      Or knocked the tennis-ball across the net,
    With his bangs done up in cunning little kinks--
      When he wore the tallest collar he could get,
        Oh, it was the fashion then
        To impale him on the pen--
    To regard him as a being made of putty through and through;
        But his racquet's laid away,
        He is roughing it to-day,
    And heroically proving that the Yankee dude'll do.

    When Algy, as some knight of old arrayed,
      Was the leading figure at the "fawncy ball,"
    We loathed him for the silly part he played,
      He was set down as a monkey--that was all!
        Oh, we looked upon him then
        As unfit to class with men,
    As one whose heart was putty, and whose brains were made of glue;
        But he's thrown his cane away,
        And he grasps a gun to-day,
    While the world beholds him, knowing that the Yankee dude'll do.

    When Clarence cruised about upon his yacht,
      Or drove out with his footman through the park,
    His mamma, it was generally thought,
      Ought to have him in her keeping after dark!
        Oh, we ridiculed him then,
        We impaled him on the pen,
    We thought he was effeminate, we dubbed him "Sissy," too;
        But he nobly marched away,
        He is eating pork to-day,
    And heroically proving that the Yankee dude'll do.

    How they hurled themselves against the angry foe,
      In the jungle and the trenches on the hill!
    When the word to charge was given, every dude was on the go--
      He was there to die, to capture, or to kill!
        Oh, he struck his level when
        Men were called upon again
    To preserve the ancient glory of the old red, white, and blue!
        He has thrown his spats away,
        He is wearing spurs to-day,
    And the world will please take notice that the Yankee dude'll do!

MYOPIA

BY WALLACE RICE

    As down the street he took his stroll,
      He cursed, for all he is a saint.
    He saw a sign atop a pole,
    As down the street he took a stroll,
    And climbed it up (near-sighted soul),
      So he could read--and read "FRESH PAINT," ...
    As down the street he took a stroll,
      He cursed, for all he is a saint.
    Ve mak' it op togedder dat
      Ve go an' see dat show,
    Dere's som't'ing dere ve fin' it out
      Maybe ve vant to know.

    Ve leave de leddle farm avile,
      Dat's near to Bourbonnais;
    Ve're soon op to Chicago town
      For spen' de night an' day;
    I nevere lak' dat busy place,
      It's mos' too swif for me,--
    Ve vaste no tam', but gat to place
      Dat ve is com' for see.

    Ve pay de price for tak' us in,
      Dey geeve me deux ticquette;
    Charlotte an' me ve com' for see
      De Horse Show now, you bet.
    Ve soon gat in it veree moch,
      "De push," I t'ink you call,
    To inside on de beeg building,
      Ve're going to see it all.

    De Coliseum is de place,
      Dey mak' de Horse Show dere,
    Five tam's so beeg dan any barn
      At Bourbonnais, by gar!
    I'm look aroun' for place dey haf'
      For dem to pitch de hay.
    "I guess it's 'out of sight,' I t'ink,"
      Dey's von man to me say.

    An' den ve valk aroun' an' 'roun'
      Som' horses for to see;
    Dere's pretty vomans, lots of dem,
      But, for de life of me,
    I can not see de trotter nag,
      Or vat's called t'oroughbred,
    I vonder if ve mak' mistake,
      Gat in wrong place instead.

    But Charlotte is not disappoint',
      Her eyes dey shine so bright,
    It's ven she sees dem vimmens folks,
      Dey dance vit moch delight;
    I den vos tak' a look myself
      On ladies vit fin' drass,
    Dere's nodding else in dat whol' place
      Dat is so interes'.

    I say, "Charlotte," say I to her,
      "Dat ladee in box seat--
    Across de vay vos von beeg swell,
      Her beauty's hard to beat;
    De von dat's gat fonee eyeglass
      Opon a leddle stek,
    I'm t'ink she is most' fin' lookin'
      Wen she bow an' spe'k.

    "It's pretty drass dat she's got on,
      I lak' de polonaise,
    Vere bodice it is all meex op
      Vit jabot all de vays.
    Dat's hang in front vit pleats all roun'--
      It is von fin' tableau."
    An' den Charlotte she turn to me
      An' ask me how I know

    So moch about de Beeg Horse Show,
      W'ich we are com' for see;
    An' den I op an' tol' her dere
      Dat I had com' to be
    Expert on informatione,
      Read papier, I fin' out
    Vat all is in de Horse's Show,
      An' vat's it all about.

    I point to ladee in nex' box,
      She's feex op mighty vell,
    I vish I could haf' vords enough
      Vat she had on to tell;
    De firs' part it vas nodding moch,
      From cloth it vas quite free,
    Lak' fleur-de-lis at Easter tam',
      Mos' beautiful to see.

    An' den dere is commence a line
      Of fluffy cream soufflé,
    My vife it mak' her very diz',
      She's not a vord to say.
    An' den com' yard of crêpe de chine,
      Vit omelette stripe beneadt',
    All fill it op vit fine guimpe jew'ls
      An' concertina pleat.

    Mon Dieu! an' who vould evere t'ink
      Dat Horse Show vas lak' dese!
    A Horse Show dere vidout no horse,
      I t'ink dat's strange beeznesse.
    But I suppose affer de man
      De dry-goods bill dey pay,
    Dere's nodding lef' to spen' on horse
      Ontil som' odder day.

    I tell you every hour you leeve,
      You fin' out som't'ing new;
    An' now I haf' som' vords to tell,
      Som' good it might do you;
    It's mighty fonny, de advise
      I'm geeve to you, of course,
    But never go to Horses Show
      Expecting to see horse.

THE CHAMPION CHECKER-PLAYER OF AMERIKY

BY JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

Of course as fur as Checker-playin's concerned, you can't jest adzackly claim 'at lots makes
fortunes and lots gits bu'sted at it--but still, it's on'y simple jestice to acknowledge 'at
there're absolute p'ints in the game 'at takes scientific principles to figger out, and a mighty
level-headed feller to dimonstrate, don't you understand!

Checkers is a' old enough game, ef age is any rickommendation; and it's a' evident fact, too,
'at "the tooth of time," as the feller says, which fer the last six thousand years has gained
some reputation fer a-eatin' up things in giner'l, don't 'pear to 'a' gnawed much of a hole
in Checkers--jedgin' from the checker-board of to-day and the ones 'at they're uccasionally
shovellin' out at Pomp'y-i, er whatever its name is. Turned up a checker-board there not long
ago, I wuz readin' 'bout, 'at still had the spots on--as plain and fresh as the modern white-pine
board o' our'n, squared off with pencil-marks and pokeberry-juice. These is facts 'at history
herself has dug out, and of course it ain't fer me ner you to turn our nose up at Checkers,
whuther we ever tamper with the fool-game er not. Fur's that's concerned, I don't p'tend to
be no checker-player myse'f,--but I know'd a feller onc't 'at could play, and sorto' made a
business of it; and that man, in my opinion, was a geenyus! Name wuz Wesley Cotterl--John Wesley
Cotterl--jest plain Wes, as us fellers round the Shoe-Shop ust to call him; ust to allus make
the Shoe-Shop his headquarters-like; and, rain er shine, wet er dry, you'd allus find Wes on
hands, ready to banter some feller fer a game, er jest a-settin' humped up there over the checker-board
all alone, a-cipher'n' out some new move er 'nuther, and whistlin' low and solem' to hisse'f-like
and a-payin' no attention to nobody.

And I'll tell you, Wes Cotterl wuz no man's fool, as sly as you keep it! He wuz a deep thinker,
Wes wuz; and ef he'd 'a' jest turned that mind o' his loose on preachin', fer instunce, and
the 'terpertation o' the Bible, don't you know, Wes 'ud 'a' worked p'ints out o' there 'at
no livin' expounderers ever got in gunshot of!

But Wes he didn't 'pear to be cut out fer nothin' much but jest Checker-playin'. Oh, of course,
he could knock round his own woodpile some, and garden a little, more er less; and the neighbers
ust to find Wes purty handy 'bout trimmin' fruit-trees, you understand, and workin' in among
the worms and cattapillers in the vines and shrubbery, and the like. And handlin' bees!--They
wuzn't no man under the heavens 'at knowed more 'bout handlin' bees'n Wes Cotterl!--"Settlin'"
the blame' things when they wuz a-swarmin'; and a-robbin' hives, and all sich fool-resks. W'y,
I've saw Wes Cotterl, 'fore now, when a swarm of bees 'ud settle in a' orchard,--like they
will sometimes, you know,--I've saw Wes Cotterl jest roll up his shirt-sleeves and bend down
a' apple tree limb 'at wuz jest kivvered with the pesky things, and scrape 'em back into the
hive with his naked hands, by the quart and gallon, and never git a scratch! You couldn't hire
a bee to sting Wes Cotterl! But lazy?--I think that man had railly ort to 'a' been a' Injun!
He wuz the fust and on'y man 'at ever I laid eyes on 'at wuz too lazy to drap a checker-man
to p'int out the right road fer a feller 'at ast him onc't the way to Burke's Mill; and Wes,
'ithout ever a-liftin' eye er finger, jest sorto' crooked out that mouth o' his'n in the direction
the feller wanted, and says: "H-yonder!" and went on with his whistlin'. But all this hain't
Checkers, and that's what I started out to tell ye.

Wes had a way o' jest natchurly a-cleanin' out anybody and ever'body 'at 'ud he'p hold up a
checker-board! Wes wuzn't what you'd call a lively player at all, ner a competiter 'at talked
much 'crost the board er made much furse over a game whilse he wuz a-playin'. He had his faults,
o' course, and would take back moves 'casion'ly, er inch up on you ef you didn't watch him,
mebby. But, as a rule, Wes had the insight to grasp the idy of whoever wuz a-playin' ag'in'
him, and his style o' game, you understand, and wuz on the lookout continual'; and under sich
circumstances could play as honest a game o' Checkers as the babe unborn.

One thing in Wes's favor allus wuz the feller's temper.--Nothin' 'peared to aggervate Wes,
and nothin' on earth could break his slow and lazy way o' takin' his own time fer ever'thing.
You jest couldn't crowd Wes er git him rattled anyway.--Jest 'peared to have one fixed principle,
and that wuz to take plenty o' time, and never make no move 'ithout a-ciphern'n' ahead on the
prob'ble consequences, don't you understand! "Be shore you're right," Wes 'ud say, a-lettin'
up fer a second on that low and sorry-like little wind-through-the-keyhole whistle o' his,
and a-nosin' out a place whur he could swap one man fer two.--"Be shore you're right"--and
somep'n' after this style wuz Wes's way: "Be shore you're right"--(whistling a long, lonesome
bar of "Barbara Allen")--"and then"--(another long, retarded bar)--"go ahead!"--and by the
time the feller 'ud git through with his whistlin', and a-stoppin' and a-startin' in ag'in,
he'd be about three men ahead to your one. And then he'd jest go on with his whistlin' 'sef
nothin' had happened, and mebby you a-jest a-rearin' and a-callin' him all the mean, outlandish,
ornry names 'at you could lay tongue to.

But Wes's good nature, I reckon, was the thing 'at he'ped him out as much as any other p'ints
the feller had. And Wes 'ud allus win, in the long run!--I don't keer who played ag'inst him!
It was on'y a question o' time with Wes o' waxin' it to the best of 'em. Lots o' players has
tackled Wes, and right at the start 'ud mebby give him trouble,--but in the long run, now mind
ye--in the long run, no mortal man, I reckon, had any business o' rubbin' knees with Wes Cotterl
under no airthly checker-board in all this vale o' tears!

I mind onc't th' come along a high-toned feller from in around In'i'nop'lus somers.--Wuz a
lawyer, er some p'fessional kind o' man. Had a big yaller, luther-kivvered book under his arm,
and a bunch o' these-'ere big envelop's and a lot o' suppeenies stickin' out o' his breastpocket.
Mighty slick-lookin' feller he wuz; wore a stovepipe hat, sorto' set 'way back on his head--so's
to show off his Giner'l Jackson forr'ed, don't you know! Well-sir, this feller struck the place,
on some business er other, and then missed the hack 'at ort to 'a' tuk him out o' here sooner'n
it did take him out!--And whilse he wuz a-loafin' round, sorto' lonesome--like a feller allus
is in a strange place, you know--he kindo' drapped in on our crowd at the Shoe-Shop, ostenchably
to git a boot-strop stitched on, but I knowed, the minute he set foot in the door, 'at that
feller wanted comp'ny wuss'n cobblin'.

Well, as good luck would have it, there set Wes, as usual, with the checker-board in his lap,
a-playin' all by hisse'f, and a-whistlin' so low and solem'-like and sad it railly made the
crowd seem like a religious getherun' o' some kind er other, we wuz all so quiet and still-like,
as the man come in.

Well, the stranger stated his business, set down, tuk off his boot, and set there nussin' his
foot and talkin' weather fer ten minutes, I reckon, 'fore he ever 'peared to notice Wes at
all. We wuz all back'ard, anyhow, 'bout talkin' much; besides, we knowed, long afore he come
in, all about how hot the weather wuz, and the pore chance there wuz o' rain, and all that;
and so the subject had purty well died out, when jest then the feller's eyes struck Wes and
the checker-board,--and I'll never fergit the warm, salvation smile 'at flashed over him at
the promisin' discovery. "What!" says he, a-grinnin' like a' angel and a-edgin' his cheer to'rds
Wes, "have we a checker-board and checkers here?"

"We hev," says I, knowin' 'at Wes wouldn't let go o' that whistle long enough to answer--more'n
to mebby nod his head.

"And who is your best player?" says the feller, kindo' pitiful-like, with another inquirin'
look at Wes.

"Him," says I, a-pokin' Wes with a peg-float. But Wes on'y spit kindo' absent-like, and went
on with his whistlin'.

"Much of a player, is he?" says the feller, with a sorto' doubtful smile at Wes ag'in.

"Plays a purty good hick'ry," says I, a-pokin' Wes ag'in. "Wes," says I, "here's a gentleman
'at 'ud mebby like to take a hand with you there, and give you a few idys," says I.

"Yes," says the stranger, eager-like, a-settin' his plug-hat keerful' up in the empty shelvin',
and a-rubbin' his hands and smilin' as confident-like as old Hoyle hisse'f,--"Yes, indeed,
I'd be glad to give the gentleman" (meanin' Wes) "a' idy er two about Checkers--ef he'd jest
as lief,--'cause I reckon ef there're any one thing 'at I do know more about 'an another, it's
Checkers," says he; "and there're no game 'at delights me more--pervidin', o' course, I find
a competiter 'at kin make it anyways interestin'."

"Got much of a rickord on Checkers?" says I.

"Well," says the feller, "I don't like to brag, but I've never ben beat--in any legitimut contest,"
says he, "and I've played more'n one o' them," he says, "here and there round the country.
Of course, your friend here," he went on, smilin' sociable at Wes, "he'll take it all in good
part ef I should happen to lead him a little--jest as I'd do," he says, "ef it wuz possible
fer him to lead me."

"Wes," says I, "has warmed the wax in the yeers of some mighty good checker-players," says
I, as he squared the board around, still a-whistlin' to hisse'f-like, as the stranger tuk his
place, a-smilin'-like and roachin' back his hair.

"Move," says Wes.

"No," says the feller, with a polite flourish of his hand; "the first move shall be your'n."
And, by jucks! fer all he wouldn't take even the advantage of a starter, he flaxed it to Wes
the fust game in less'n fifteen minutes.

"Right shore you've give' me your best player?" he says, smilin' round at the crowd, as Wes
set squarin' the board fer another game and whistlin' as onconcerned-like as ef nothin' had
happened more'n ordinary.

"'S your move," says Wes, a-squintin' out into the game 'bout forty foot from shore, and a-whistlin'
purt' nigh in a whisper.

Well-sir, it 'peared-like the feller railly didn't try to play; and you could see, too, 'at
Wes knowed he'd about met his match, and played accordin'. He didn't make no move at all 'at
he didn't give keerful thought to; whilse the feller--! well, as I wuz sayin', it jest 'peared-like
Checkers wuz child's-play fer him! Putt in most o' the time 'long through the game a-sayin'
things calkilated to kindo' bore a' ordinary man. But Wes helt hisse'f purty level, and didn't
show no signs, and kep' up his whistlin', mighty well--considerin'.

"Reckon you play the fiddle, too, as well as Checkers?" says the feller, laughin', as Wes come
a-whistlin' out of the little end of the second game and went on a-fixin' fer the next round.

"'S my move!" says Wes, 'thout seemin' to notice the feller's tantalizin' words whatsomever.

"'L! this time," thinks I, "Mr. Smarty from the metrolopin deestricts, you're liable to git
waxed--shore!" But the feller didn't 'pear to think so at all, and played right ahead as glib-like
and keerless as ever--'casion'ly a-throwin' in them sircastic remarks o' his'n,--'bout bein'
"slow and shore" 'bout things in gineral--"Liked to see that," he said:--"Liked to see fellers
do things with plenty o' deliberation, and even ef a feller wuzn't much of a checker-player,
liked to see him die slow anyhow!--and then 'tend his own funeral," he says,--"and march in
the p'session--to his own music," says he.--And jest then his remarks wuz brung to a close
by Wes a-jumpin' two men, and a-lightin' square in the king-row.... "Crown that," says Wes,
a-droppin' back into his old tune. And fer the rest o' that game Wes helt the feller purty
level, but had to finally knock under--but by jest the clos'test kind o' shave o' winnin'.

"They ain't much use," says the feller, "o' keepin' this thing up--'less I could manage, some
way er other, to git beat onc't 'n a while!"

"Move," says Wes, a-drappin' back into the same old whistle and a-settlin' there.

"'Music has charms,' as the Good Book tells us," says the feller, kindo' nervous-like, and
a-roachin' his hair back as ef some sort o' p'tracted headache wuz a-settin' in.

"Never wuz 'skunked,' wuz ye?" says Wes, kindo' suddent-like, with a fur-off look in them big
white eyes o' his--and then a-whistlin' right on 'sef he hadn't said nothin'.

"Not much!" says the feller, sorto' s'prised-like, as ef such a' idy as that had never struck
him afore.--"Never was 'skunked' myse'f: but I've saw fellers in my time 'at wuz!" says he.

But from that time on I noticed the feller 'peared to play more keerful, and railly la'nched
into the game with somepin' like inter'st. Wes he seemed to be jest a-limber-in'-up-like; and-sir,
blame me! ef he didn't walk the feller's log fer him that time, 'thout no 'pearent trouble at all!

"And, now," says Wes, all quiet-like, a-squarin' the board fer another'n,--"we're kindo' gittin'
at things right. Move." And away went that little unconcerned whistle o' his ag'in, and Mr.
Cityman jest gittin' white and sweaty too--he wuz so nervous. Ner he didn't 'pear to find much
to laugh at in the next game--ner the next two games nuther! Things wuz a-gettin' mighty interestin'
'bout them times, and I guess the feller wuz ser'ous-like a-wakin' up to the solem' fact 'at
it tuk 'bout all his spare time to keep up his end o' the row, and even that state o' pore
satisfaction wuz a-creepin' furder and furder away from him ever' new turn he undertook. Whilse
Wes jest peared to git more deliber't' and certain ever' game; and that unendin' se'f-satisfied
and comfortin' little whistle o' his never drapped a stitch, but toed out ever' game alike,--to'rds
the last, and, fer the most part, disasterss to the feller 'at had started in with sich confidence
and actchul promise, don't you know.

Well-sir, the feller stuck the whole forenoon out, and then the afternoon; and then knuckled
down to it 'way into the night--yes, and plum midnight!--And he buckled into the thing bright
and airly next morning! And-sir, fer two long days and nights, a-hardly a-stoppin' long enough
to eat, the feller stuck it out,--and Wes a-jest a-warpin' it to him hand-over-fist, and leavin'
him furder behind, ever' game!--till finally, to'rds the last, the feller got so blamedon worked
up and excited-like, he jes' 'peared actchully purt' nigh plum crazy and histurical as a woman!

It was a-gittin' late into the shank of the second day, and the boys hed jest lit a candle
fer 'em to finish out one of the clost'est games the feller'd played Wes fer some time. But
Wes wuz jest as cool and ca'm as ever, and still a-whistlin' consolin' to hisse'f-like, whilse
the feller jest 'peared wore out and ready to drap right in his tracks any minute.

"Durn you!" he snarled out at Wes, "hain't you never goern to move?" And there set Wes, a-balancin'
a checker-man above the board, a-studyin' whur to set it, and a-fillin' in the time with that-air
whistle.

"Flames and flashes!" says the feller ag'in, "will you ever stop that death-seducin' tune o'
your'n long enough to move?"--And as Wes deliber't'ly set his man down whur the feller see
he'd haf to jump it and lose two men and a king, Wes wuz a-singin', low and sad-like, as ef
all to hisse'f:

    "O we'll move that man, and leave him there.--
      Fer the love of B-a-r-b--bry Al-len!"

Well-sir! the feller jest jumped to his feet, upset the board, and tore out o' the shop stark-starin'
crazy--blame ef he wuzn't!--'cause some of us putt out after him and overtook him 'way beyent
the 'pike-bridge, and hollered to him;--and he shuk his fist at us and hollered back and says,
says he: "Ef you fellers over here," says he, "'ll agree to muzzle that durn checker-player
o' your'n, I'll bet fifteen hunderd dollars to fifteen cents 'at I kin beat him 'leven games
out of ever' dozent!--But there're no money," he says, "'at kin hire me to play him ag'in,
on this aboundin' airth, on'y on them conditions--'cause that durn, eternal, infernal, dad-blasted
whistle o' his 'ud beat the oldest man in Ameriky!"

DARBY AND JOAN

BY ST. JOHN HONEYWOOD

I

    When Darby saw the setting sun,
    He swung his scythe, and home he run,
    Sat down, drank off his quart, and said,
    "My work is done, I'll go to bed."
    "My work is done!" retorted Joan,
    "My work is done! your constant tone;
    But hapless woman ne'er can say,
    'My work is done,' till judgment day.
    You men can sleep all night, but we
    Must toil."--"Whose fault is that?" quoth he.
    "I know your meaning," Joan replied,
    "But, Sir, my tongue shall not be tied;
    I will go on, and let you know
    What work poor women have to do:
    First, in the morning, though we feel
    As sick as drunkards when they reel;
    Yes, feel such pains in back and head
    As would confine you men to bed,
    We ply the brush, we wield the broom,
    We air the beds, and right the room;
    The cows must next be milked--and then
    We get the breakfast for the men.
    Ere this is done, with whimpering cries,
    And bristly hair, the children rise;
    These must be dressed, and dosed with rue,
    And fed--and all because of you:
    We next"--Here Darby scratched his head,
    And stole off grumbling to his bed;
    And only said, as on she run,
    "Zounds! woman's clack is never done."

II

    At early dawn, ere Phoebus rose,
    Old Joan resumed her tale of woes;
    When Darby thus--"I'll end the strife,
    Be you the man and I the wife:
    Take you the scythe and mow, while I
    Will all your boasted cares supply."
    "Content," quoth Joan, "give me my stint."
    This Darby did, and out she went.
    Old Darby rose and seized the broom,
    And whirled the dirt about the room:
    Which having done, he scarce knew how,
    He hied to milk the brindled cow.
    The brindled cow whisked round her tail
    In Darby's eyes, and kicked the pail.
    The clown, perplexed with grief and pain,
    Swore he'd ne'er try to milk again:
    When turning round, in sad amaze,
    He saw his cottage in a blaze:
    For as he chanced to brush the room,
    In careless haste, he fired the broom.
    The fire at last subdued, he swore
    The broom and he would meet no more.
    Pressed by misfortune, and perplexed,
    Darby prepared for breakfast next;
    But what to get he scarcely knew--
    The bread was spent, the butter too.
    His hands bedaubed with paste and flour,
    Old Darby labored full an hour:
    But, luckless wight! thou couldst not make
    The bread take form of loaf or cake.
    As every door wide open stood,
    In pushed the sow in quest of food;
    And, stumbling onward, with her snout
    O'erset the churn--the cream ran out.
    As Darby turned, the sow to beat,
    The slippery cream betrayed his feet;
    He caught the bread trough in his fall,
    And down came Darby, trough, and all.
    The children, wakened by the clatter,
    Start up, and cry, "Oh! what's the matter?"
    Old Jowler barked, and Tabby mewed,
    And hapless Darby bawled aloud,
    "Return, my Joan, as heretofore,
    I'll play the housewife's part no more:
    Since now, by sad experience taught,
    Compared to thine my work is naught;
    Henceforth, as business calls, I'll take,
    Content, the plough, the scythe, the rake,
    And never more transgress the line
    Our fates have marked, while thou art mine.
    Then, Joan, return, as heretofore,
    I'll vex thy honest soul no more;
    Let's each our proper task attend--
    Forgive the past, and strive to mend."

    There's sompin kind o' hearty-like about the atmosphere
    When the heat of summer's over and the coolin' fall is here.

LAFFING

BY JOSH BILLINGS

Anatomikally konsidered, laffing iz the sensation ov pheeling good all over, and showing it
principally in one spot.

Morally konsidered, it iz the next best thing tew the 10 commandments....

Theoretikally konsidered, it kan out-argy all the logik in existence....

Pyroteknikally konsidered, it is the fire-works of the soul....

But i don't intend this essa for laffing in the lump, but for laffing on the half-shell.

Laffing iz just az natral tew cum tew the surface az a rat iz tew cum out ov hiz hole when
he wants tew.

Yu kant keep it back by swallowing enny more than yu kan the heekups.

If a man kan't laff there iz sum mistake made in putting him together, and if he won't laff
he wants az mutch keeping away from az a bear-trap when it iz sot.

I have seen people who laffed altogether too mutch for their own good or for ennyboddy else's;
they laft like a barrell ov nu sider with the tap pulled out, a perfekt stream.

This is a grate waste ov natral juice.

I have seen other people who didn't laff enuff tew giv themselfs vent; they waz like a barrell
ov nu sider too, that waz bunged up tite, apt tew start a hoop and leak all away on the sly.

Thare ain't neither ov theze 2 ways right, and they never ought tew be pattented....

Genuine laffing iz the vent ov the soul, the nostrils of the heart, and iz just az necessary
for health and happiness az spring water iz for a trout.

Thare iz one kind ov a laff that i always did rekommend; it looks out ov the eye fust with
a merry twinkle, then it kreeps down on its hands and kneze and plays around the mouth like
a pretty moth around the blaze ov a kandle, then it steals over into the dimples ov the cheeks
and rides around into thoze little whirlpools for a while, then it lites up the whole face
like the mello bloom on a damask roze, then it swims oph on the air with a peal az klear and
az happy az a dinner-bell, then it goes bak agin on golden tiptoze like an angel out for an
airing, and laze down on its little bed ov violets in the heart where it cum from.

Thare iz another laff that nobody kan withstand; it iz just az honest and noisy az a distrikt
skool let out tew play, it shakes a man up from hiz toze tew hiz temples, it dubbles and twists
him like a whiskee phit, it lifts him oph from his cheer, like feathers, and lets him bak agin
like melted led, it goes all thru him like a pikpocket, and finally leaves him az weak and
az krazy az tho he had bin soaking all day in a Rushing bath and forgot to be took out.

This kind ov a laff belongs tew jolly good phellows who are az healthy az quakers, and who
are az eazy tew pleaze az a gall who iz going tew be married to-morrow.

In konclushion i say laff every good chance yu kan git, but don't laff unless yu feal like
it, for there ain't nothing in this world more harty than a good honest laff, nor nothing more
hollow than a hartless one.

When yu do laff open yure mouth wide enuff for the noize tew git out without squealing, thro
yure hed bak az tho yu waz going tew be shaved, hold on tew yure false hair with both hands
and then laff till yure soul gets thoroly rested.

But i shall tell yu more about theze things at sum fewter time.

GRIZZLY-GRU

BY IRONQUILL

      O Thoughts of the past and present,
    O whither, and whence, and where,
      Demanded my soul, as I scaled the height
      Of the pine-clad peak in the somber night,
    In the terebinthine air.

      While pondering on the frailty
    Of happiness, hope, and mirth,
      The ascending sun with derisive scoff
      Hurled its golden lances and smote me off
    From the bulge of the restless earth.

      Through the yellowish dawn of velvet
    Where stars were so thickly strewn.
      That quietly chuckled as I passed through,
      I fell in the gardens of Grizzly-Gru,
    On the mad, mysterious moon.

      I fell on the turquoise ether,
    Low down in the wondrous west,
      And thence to the moon in whose yielding blue
      Were hidden the gardens of Grizzly-Gru,
    In the Monarchy of Unrest.

      And there were the fairy gardens,
    Where beautiful cherubs grew
      In daintiest way and on separate stalks,
      In the listed rows by the jasper walks,
    Near the palace of Grizzly-Gru.

      While strolling around the garden
    I noticed the rows were full
      Of every conceivable size and type--
      Some that were buds, and some nearly ripe,
    And some that were ready to pull.

      In gauzy and white corolla,
    Was one who had eyes of blue,
      A little excuse of a baby nose,
      Little pink ears, and ten little toes,
    And a mouth that kept saying ah-goo.

      Ah-gooing as I came near her,
    She raised up her arms in glee--
      Her little fat arms--and she seemed to say,
      "I'm ready to go with you right away;
    Don't hunt any more--take me."

      I picked her off quick and kissed her,
    And, hugging her to my breast,
      I heard a loud yelling that pierced me through,
      'Twas His Terrible Eminence, Grizzly-Gru,
    Of the Monarchy of Unrest.

      He had on a blood-red turban,
    A picturesque lot of clothes,
      With big moustaches both fierce and black,
      And a ghastly saber to cut and hack,
    And shoes that turned up at the toes.

      Out of the gate of the garden
    The cherub and I took flight,
      And closely behind us the saber flew,
      And back of the saber came Grizzly-Gru,
    And he chased us all day till night.

      I ran down the lunar crescent,
    'And out on the silver horn;
      I kissed the baby and held her tight,
      And jumped down into the starry night,
    And--I lit on the earth at morn.

      He fitfully threw his saber,
    It missed and went round the sun;
      He followed no further, he was not rash,
      But the baby held on to my coarse moustache,
    And seemed to enjoy the fun.

      In saving that blue-eyed baby
    From the gardens of Grizzly-Gru,
      I suffered a terrible shock and fright;
      But the doctor believes it will be all right,
    And he thinks he can pull me through.

JOHN HENRY IN A STREET CAR

BY HUGH McHUGH

Throw me in the cellar and batten down the hatches.

I'm a wreck in the key of G flat.

I side-stepped in among a bunch of language-heavers yesterday and ever since I've been sitting
on the ragged edge with my feet hanging over.

I was on my way down to Wall Street to help J. Pierpont Morgan buy a couple of railroads and
all the world seemed as blithe and gay as a love clinch from Laura Jean Libbey's latest.

When I climbed into the cable-car I felt like a man who had mailed money to himself the night
before.

I was aces.

And then somebody blew out my gas.

At the next corner two society flash-lights flopped in and sat next to me.

They had a lot of words they wanted to use and they started in.

The car stopped and two more of the 400's leading ladies jumped the hurdles and came down the
aisle.

They sat on the other side of me.

In a minute they began to bite the dictionary.

Their efforts aroused the energies of three women who sat opposite me, and they proceeded to
beat the English language black and blue.

In a minute the air was so full of talk that the grip germs had to pull out on the platform
and chew the conductor.

The next one to me on my left started in:

"Oh, yes; we discharged our cook day before yesterday, but there's another coming this evening,
and so--"

Her friend broke away and was up and back to the center with this:

"I was coming down Broadway this morning and I saw Julia Marlowe's leading man. I'm sure it
was him, because I saw the show once in Chicago and he has the loveliest eyes I ever looked at!"

I knew that that was my cue to walk out, kick the motorman in the knuckles, upset the car and
send in a fire call, but I passed it up.

I just sat there and bit my nails like the heavy villain in one of Corse Payton's ten, twen,
thir dramas.

That "loveliest eyes" speech had me groggy.

Whenever I hear a woman turn on that "loveliest eyes" gag about an actor I always feel that
a swift slap from a wet dish-rag would look well on her back hair.

Then the bunch across the aisle got the flag.

"Well, you know," says the broad lady who paid for one seat and was compelled by Nature to
use three, "you know there's only five in our family, and so I take just five slices of stale
bread and have a bowl of water ready in which I've dropped a pinch of salt. Then I take a piece
of butter about the size of a walnut, and thoroughly grease the bottom of a frying-pan; then
beat five eggs to a froth, and--"

I'm hoping the conductor will come in and give us all a tip to take to the timber because the
cops are going to pinch the room, but there's nothing doing.

One of the dames on my right finds her voice and passes it around:--

"Oh, I think it's a perfect fright! I always did detest electric blue, anyway. It is so unbecoming,
and then--"

I've just decided that this lady ought to make up as a Swede servant girl and play the part,
when her friend hooks in:

"Oh, yes; I think it will look perfectly sweet! It is a foulard in one of those new heliotrope
tints, made with a crêpe de chine chemisette, with a second vest peeping out on either side
of the front over an embroidered satin vest and cut in scallops on the edge, finished with
a full ruche of white chiffon, and the sleeves are just too tight for any use, and the skirt
is too long for any good, and I declare the lining is too sweet! and I just hate to wear it
out on the street and get it soiled, and I was going to have it made with a tunic, and Mrs.
Wigwag--that's my brother-in-law's first cousin--she had her's made to wear with guimpes--and
they are so economical! and--"

Think of a guy having to ride four miles and get his forehead fanned all the while with talk
about foulard and crêpe de chine and guimpes!

Wouldn't it lead you to a padded cell?

Say! I was down and out--no kidding!

I wanted to get up and fight the door-tender, but I couldn't.

One of the conversationalists was sitting on my overcoat.

I felt that if I got up and called my coat back to Papa she might lose the thread of her story,
and the jar would be something frightful.

So I sat still and saved her life.

The one on my right must have been the Lady President of The Hammer Club.

She was talking about some other girl and she didn't do a thing to the absent one.

She said she was svelte.

I suppose that's Dago for a shine.

That's the way with some women. They can't come right out and call another woman a polish.
They have to beat around the bush and chase their friends to the swamps by throwing things
like "svelte" at them. Tush!

I tried to duck the foreign tattle on my right and by so doing I'm next to this on my left:

"Oh, yes; I think politics is just too lovely! I don't know whether I'd rather be a Democrat
or a Republican, but I think--oh! just look at the hat that woman has on! Isn't that a fright?
Wonder if she trimmed it herself. Of course she did; you can tell by--"

I'm gasping for breath when the broad lady across the aisle gets the floor:

"No, indeed! I didn't have Eliza vaccinated. Why, she's too small yet, and don't you know my
sister's husband's brother's child was vaccinated, and she is younger than our Eliza, but I
don't just care, I don't want--"

Then the sweet girlish thing on my left gave me the corkscrew jab.

It was the finish:

"Isn't that lovely? Well, as I was telling you, Charlie came last night and brought Mr. Storeclose
with him. Mr. Storeclose is awfully nice. He plays the mandolin just too sweet for anything, and--"

Me!--to the oyster beds! No male impersonators garroting a mandolin--not any in mine!

When I want to take a course in music I'll climb into a public library and read how Baldy Sloane
wrote the Tiger Lily with one hand tied behind him and his feet on the piano.

So I fell off the car and crawled home to mother.

THE MUSKEETER

BY JOSH BILLINGS

Muskeeters are a game bug, but they won't bite at a hook. Thare iz millyuns ov them kaught
every year, but not with a hook, this makes the market for them unstiddy, the supply allways
exceeding the demand. The muskeeto iz born on the sly, and cums to maturity quicker than enny
other ov the domestik animiles. A muskeeter at 3 hours old iz just az reddy and anxious to
go into bizzness for himself, az ever he iz, and bites the fust time az sharp, and natral,
as red pepper duz. The muskeeter haz a good ear for musik, and sings without notes. The song
ov the muskeeto iz monotonous to sum folks, but in me it stirs up the memorys ov other days.
I hav lade awake, all nite long, menny a time and listened to the sweet anthems ov the muskeeter.
I am satisfied that thare want nothing made in vain, but i kant help thinking how mighty kluss
the musketoze kum to it. The muskeeter haz inhabited this world since its kreashun, and will
probably hang around here until bizzness closes. Whare the muskeeter goes to in the winter
iz a standing konumdrum, which all the naturalists hav giv up, but we kno he dont go far, for
he iz on hand early each year with hiz probe fresh ground, and polished. Muskeeters must be
one ov the luxurys ov life, they certainly aint one ov the necessarys, not if we kno ourselfs.

THE TURNINGS OF A BOOKWORM

BY CAROLYN WELLS

    Love levels all plots.
    Dead men sell no tales.
    A new boom sweeps clean.
    Circumstances alter bookcases.
    The more haste the less read.
    Too many books spoil the trade.
    Many hands make light literature.
    Epigrams cover a multitude of sins.
    Ye can not serve Art and Mammon.
    A little sequel is a dangerous thing.
    It's a long page that has no turning.
    Don't look a gift-book in the binding.
    A gilt-edged volume needs no accuser.
    In a multitude of characters there is safety.
    Incidents will happen even in the best regulated novels.
    One touch of Nature makes the whole book sell.
    Where there's a will there's a detective story.
    A book in the hand is worth two in the library.
    An ounce of invention is worth a pound of style.
    A good name is rather to be chosen than great characters.
    Where there's so much puff, there must be some buyer.

THE FEAST OF THE MONKEYS

BY JOHN PHILIP SOUSA

    In days of old,
    So I've been told,
    The monkeys gave a feast.
    They sent out cards,
    With kind regards,
    To every bird and beast.
    The guests came dressed,
    In fashion's best,
    Unmindful of expense;
    Except the whale,
    Whose swallowtail,
    Was "soaked" for fifty cents.

    The guests checked wraps,
    Canes, hats and caps;
    And when that task was done,
    The footman he
    With dignitee,
    Announced them one by one.
    In Monkey Hall,
    The host met all,
    And hoped they'd feel at ease,
    "I scarcely can,"
    Said the Black and Tan,
    "I'm busy hunting fleas."

    "While waiting for
    A score or more
    Of guests," the hostess said,
    "We'll have the Poodle
    Sing Yankee Doodle,
    A-standing on his head.
    And when this through,
    Good Parrot, you,
    Please show them how you swear."
    "Oh, dear; don't cuss,"
    Cried the Octopus,
    And he walked off on his ear.

    The Orang-Outang
    A sea-song sang,
    About a Chimpanzee
    Who went abroad,
    In a drinking gourd,
    To the coast of Barberee.
    Where he heard one night,
    When the moon shone bright,
    A school of mermaids pick
    Chromatic scales
    From off their tails,
    And did it mighty slick.

    "All guests are here,
    To eat the cheer,
    And dinner's served, my Lord."
    The butler bowed;
    And then the crowd
    Rushed in with one accord.
    The fiddler-crab
    Came in a cab,
    And played a piece in C;
    While on his horn,
    The Unicorn
    Blew, You'll Remember Me.

    "To give a touch
    Of early Dutch
    To this great feast of feasts,
    I'll drink ten drops
    Of Holland's schnapps,"
    Spoke out the King of Beasts.
    "That must taste fine,"
    Said the Porcupine,
    "Did you see him smack his lip?"
    "I'd smack mine, too,"
    Cried the Kangaroo,
    "If I didn't have the pip."

    The Lion stood,
    And said: "Be good
    Enough to look this way;
    Court Etiquette
    Do not forget,
    And mark well what I say:
    My royal wish
    Is ev'ry dish
    Be tasted first by me."
    "Here's where I smile,"
    Said the Crocodile,
    And he climbed an axle-tree.

    The soup was brought,
    And quick as thought,
    The Lion ate it all.
    "You can't beat that,"
    Exclaimed the Cat,
    "For monumental gall."
    "The soup," all cried.
    "Gone," Leo replied,
    "'Twas just a bit too thick."
    "When we get through,"
    Remarked the Gnu,
    "I'll hit him with a brick."

    The Tiger stepped,
    Or, rather, crept,
    Up where the Lion sat.
    "O, mighty boss
    I'm at a loss
    To know where I am at.
    I came to-night
    With appetite
    To drink and also eat;
    As a Tiger grand,
    I now demand,
    I get there with both feet."

    The Lion got
    All-fired hot
    And in a passion flew.
    "Get out," he cried,
    "And save your hide,
    You most offensive You."
    "I'm not afraid,"
    The Tiger said,
    "I know what I'm about."
    But the Lion's paw
    Reached the Tiger's jaw,
    And he was good and out.

    The salt-sea smell
    Of Mackerel,
    Upon the air arose;
    Each hungry guest
    Great joy expressed,
    And "sniff!" went every nose.
    With glutton look
    The Lion took
    The spiced and sav'ry dish.
    Without a pause
    He worked his jaws,
    And gobbled all the fish.

    Then ate the roast,
    The quail on toast,
    The pork, both fat and lean;
    The jam and lamb,
    The potted ham,
    And drank the kerosene.
    He raised his voice:
    "Come, all rejoice,
    You've seen your monarch dine."
    "Never again,"
    Clucked the Hen,
    And all sang Old Lang Syne.

THE BILLVILLE SPIRIT MEETING

BY FRANK L. STANTON

    We had a sperrit meetin' (we'll never have no more!)
    To call up all the sperrits of them that's "gone before."
    A feller called a "medium" (he wuz of medium size),
    Took the contract fer the fetchin' o' them sperrits from the skies.

    The mayor--the town council--the parson an' his wife,
    Come to shake han's with them sperrits what had left the other life;
    The Colonel an' the Major--the coroner, an' all
    Wuz waitin' an' debatin' in the darkness o' the hall.

    The medium roared, "Silence! Amanda Jones appears!
    Is her husband present?" ("No, sir--he's been restin' twenty years!")
    "Here's the ghost of Sally Spilkins, from the lan' whar' glories glow:
    Would her husband like to see her?" (An' a feeble voice said, "No!")

    "Here's the wife of Colonel Buster; she wears a heavenly smile:
    She wants to see the Colonel, an' she's comin' down the aisle!"
    Then all wuz wild confusion--it warn't a bit o' fun!--
    With "Lord, have mercy on me," the Colonel broke an' run!

    Then the coroner got skeery an' scampered fer his life!
    "Stop--stop him!" said the medium; "here comes his second wife!"
    But thar' warn't a man could stop him in that whole blame settlement.--
    He turned a double summersault an' out the winder went!

    Then, the whole town council follered an' hollered all the way;
    The parson said he had a call 'bout ten miles off, to pray!
    He didn't preach nex' Sunday, an' they tell it roun' a bit,
    Accordin' to the best reports the parson's runnin' yit!

A CRY FROM THE CONSUMER

BY WILBUR D. NESBIT

    Grasshoppers roam the Kansas fields and eat the tender grass--
    A trivial affair, indeed, but what then comes to pass?
    You go to buy a panama, or any other hat;
    You learn the price has been advanced a lot because of that.
    A glacier up in Canada has slipped a mile or two--
    A little thing like this can boost the selling price of glue.
    Occurrences so tragic always thrill me to the core;
    I hope and pray that nothing ever happens any more.

    Last week the peaceful Indians went a-searching after scalps,
    And then there was an avalanche 'way over in the Alps;
    These diametric happenings seem nothing much, but look--
    We had to add a dollar to the wages of the cook.
    The bean-crop down at Boston has grown measurably less,
    And so the dealer charges more for goods to make a dress.
    Each day there is some incident to make a man feel sore,
    I'm on my knees to ask that nothing happens any more.

    It didn't rain in Utah and it did in old Vermont--
    Result: it costs you fifty more to take a summer's jaunt;
    Upon the plains of Tibet some tornadoes took a roll--
    Therefore the barons have to charge a higher price for coal.
    A street-car strike in Omaha has cumulative shocks--
    It boosted huckleberries up to twenty cents a box.
    No matter what is happening it always finds your door--
    Give us a rest! Let nothing ever happen any more.

    Mosquitoes in New Jersey bite a magnate on the wing--
    Result: the poor consumer feels that fierce mosquito's sting:
    The skeeter's song is silenced, but in something like an hour
    The grocers understand that it requires a raise in flour.
    A house burns down in Texas and a stove blows up in Maine,
    Ten minutes later breakfast foods in prices show a gain.
    Effects must follow causes--which is what I most deplore;
    I hope and pray that nothing ever happens any more.

A DISAPPOINTMENT

BY JOHN BOYLE O'REILLY

    Her hair was a waving bronze, and her eyes
      Deep wells that might cover a brooding soul;
    And who, till he weighed it, could ever surmise
      That her heart was a cinder instead of a coal!

THE TRAGEDY OF IT

BY ALDEN CHARLES NOBLE

    Alas for him, alas for it,
      Alas for you and I!
    When this I think I raise my mitt
      To dry my weeping eye.

STAGE WHISPERS

BY CAROLYN WELLS

    Deadheads tell no tales.
    Stars are stubborn things.
    All's not bold that titters.
    Contracts make cowards of us all.
    One good turn deserves an encore.
    A little actress is a dangerous thing.
    It's a long skirt that has no turning.
    Stars rush in where angels fear to tread.
    Managers never hear any good of themselves.
    A manager is known by the company he keeps.
    A plot is not without honor save in comic opera.
    Take care of the dance and the songs will take care of themselves.

THE PETTIBONE LINEAGE

BY JAMES T. FIELDS

My name is Esek Pettibone, and I wish to affirm in the outset that it is a good thing to be
well-born. In thus connecting the mention of my name with a positive statement, I am not aware
that a catastrophe lies coiled up in the juxtaposition. But I can not help writing plainly
that I am still in favor of a distinguished family-tree. ESTO PERPETUA! To have had somebody
for a great-grandfather that was somebody is exciting. To be able to look back on long lines
of ancestry that were rich, but respectable, seems decorous and all right. The present Earl
of Warwick, I think, must have an idea that strict justice has been done him in the way of
being launched properly into the world. I saw the Duke of Newcastle once, and as the farmer
in Conway described Mount Washington, I thought the Duke felt a propensity to "hunch up some."
Somehow it is pleasant to look down on the crowd and have a conscious right to do so.

Left an orphan at the tender age of four years, having no brothers or sisters to prop me round
with young affections and sympathies, I fell into three pairs of hands, excellent in their
way, but peculiar. Patience, Eunice, and Mary Ann Pettibone were my aunts on my father's side.
All my mother's relations kept shady when the lonely orphan looked about for protection; but
Patience Pettibone, in her stately way, said,--"The boy belongs to a good family, and he shall
never want while his three aunts can support him." So I went to live with my plain, but benignant
protectors, in the state of New Hampshire.

During my boyhood the best-drilled lesson that fell to my keeping was this: "Respect yourself.
We come of more than ordinary parentage. Superior blood was probably concerned in getting up
the Pettibones. Hold your head erect, and some day you shall have proof of your high lineage."

I remember once, on being told that I must not share my juvenile sports with the butcher's
three little beings, I begged to know why not. Aunt Eunice looked at Patience, and Mary Ann
knew what she meant.

"My child," slowly murmured the eldest sister, "our family, no doubt, came of a very old stock;
perhaps we belong to the nobility. Our ancestors, it is thought, came over laden with honors,
and no doubt were embarrassed with riches, though the latter importation has dwindled in the
lapse of years. Respect yourself, and when you grow up you will not regret that your old and
careful aunt did not wish you to play with the butcher's offspring."

I felt mortified that I ever had a desire to "knuckle up" with any but kings' sons, or sultans'
little boys. I longed to be among my equals in the urchin line, and fly my kite with only high-born
youngsters.

Thus I lived in a constant scene of self-enchantment on the part of the sisters, who assumed
all the port and feeling that properly belonged to ladies of quality. Patrimonial splendor
to come danced before their dim eyes; and handsome settlements, gay equipages, and a general
grandeur of some sort loomed up in the future for the American branch of the House of Pettibone.

It was a life of opulent self-delusion, which my aunts were never tired of nursing; and I was
too young to doubt the reality of it. All the members of our little household held up their
heads, as if each said, in so many words, "There is no original sin in our composition, whatever
of that commodity there may be mixed up with the common clay of Snowborough."

Aunt Patience was a star, and dwelt apart. Aunt Eunice looked at her through a determined pair
of spectacles, and worshiped while she gazed. The youngest sister lived in a dreamy state of
honors to come, and had constant zoölogical visions of lions, griffins, and unicorns, drawn
and quartered in every possible style known to the Heralds' College. The Reverend Hebrew Bullet,
who used to drop in quite often and drink several compulsory glasses of home-made wine, encouraged
his three parishoners in their aristocratic notions, and extolled them for what he called their
"stooping-down to every-day life." He differed with the ladies of our house only on one point.
He contended that the unicorn of the Bible and the rhinoceros of to-day were one and the same
animal. My aunts held a different opinion.

In the sleeping-room of my Aunt Patience reposed a trunk. Often during my childish years I
longed to lift the lid and spy among its contents the treasures my young fancy conjured up
as lying there in state. I dared not ask to have the cover raised for my gratification, as
I had often been told I was "too little" to estimate aright what that armorial box contained.
"When you grow up, you shall see the inside of it," Aunt Mary used to say to me; and so I wondered,
and wished, but all in vain. I must have the virtue of years before I could view the treasures
of past magnificence so long entombed in that wooden sarcophagus. Once I saw the faded sisters
bending over the trunk together, and, as I thought, embalming something in camphor. Curiosity
impelled me to linger, but, under some pretext, I was nodded out of the room.

Although my kinswomen's means were far from ample, they determined that Swiftmouth College
should have the distinction of calling me one of her sons, and accordingly I was in due time
sent for preparation to a neighboring academy. Years of study and hard fare in country boarding-houses
told upon my self-importance as the descendant of a great Englishman, notwithstanding all my
letters from the honored three came with counsel to "respect myself and keep up the dignity
of the family." Growing-up man forgets good counsel. The Arcadia of respectability is apt to
give place to the levity of football and other low-toned accomplishments. The book of life,
at that period, opens readily at fun and frolic, and the insignia of greatness give the school-boy
no envious pangs.

I was nineteen when I entered the hoary halls of Swiftmouth. I call them hoary, because they
had been built more than fifty years. To me they seemed uncommonly hoary, and I snuffed antiquity
in the dusty purlieus. I now began to study, in good earnest, the wisdom of the past. I saw
clearly the value of dead men and mouldy precepts, especially if the former had been entombed
a thousand years, and if the latter were well done in sounding Greek and Latin. I began to
reverence royal lines of deceased monarchs, and longed to connect my own name, now growing
into college popularity, with some far-off mighty one who had ruled in pomp and luxury his
obsequious people. The trunk in Snowborough troubled my dreams. In that receptacle still slept
the proof of our family distinction. "I will go," quoth I, "to the home of my aunts next vacation
and there learn how we became mighty, and discover precisely why we don't practice to-day our
inherited claims to glory."

I went to Snowborough. Aunt Patience was now anxious to lay before her impatient nephew the
proof he burned to behold. But first she must explain. All the old family documents and letters
were, no doubt, destroyed in the great fire of '98, as nothing in the shape of parchment or
paper implying nobility had ever been discovered in Snowborough, or elsewhere. But there had
been preserved, for many years, a suit of imperial clothes that had been worn, by their great-grandfather
in England, and, no doubt, in the New World also. These garments had been carefully watched
and guarded, for were they not the proof that their owner belonged to a station in life second,
if second at all, to the royal court of King George itself? Precious casket, into which I was
soon to have the privilege of gazing! Through how many long years these fond, foolish virgins
had lighted their unflickering lamps of expectation and hope at this cherished old shrine!

I was now on my way to the family repository of all our greatness. I went up stairs "on the
jump." We all knelt down before the well-preserved box; and my proud Aunt Patience, in a somewhat
reverent manner, turned the key. My heart,--I am not ashamed to confess it now, although it
is forty years since the quartet, in search of family honors, were on their knees that summer
afternoon in Snowborough,--my heart beat high. I was about to look on that which might be a
duke's or an earl's regalia. And I was descended from the owner in a direct line! I had lately
been reading Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus; and I remembered, there before the trunk, the lines:

    "O sacred receptacle of my joys,
    Sweet cell of virtue and nobility!"

The lid went up, and the sisters began to unroll the precious garments, which seemed all enshrined
in aromatic gums and spices. The odor of that interior lives with me to this day; and I grow
faint with the memory of that hour. With pious precision the clothes were uncovered, and at
last the whole suit was laid before my expectant eyes.

Reader! I am an old man now, and have not long to walk this planet. But whatever dreadful shock
may be in reserve for my declining years, I am certain I can bear it; for I went through that
scene at Snowborough, and still live!

When the garments were fully displayed, all the aunts looked at me. I had been to college;
I had studied Burke's Peerage; I had been once to New York. Perhaps I could immediately name
the exact station in noble British life to which that suit of clothes belonged. I could; I
saw it all at a glance. I grew flustered and pale. I dared not look my poor deluded female
relatives in the face.

"What rank in the peerage do these gold-laced garments and big buttons betoken?" cried all three.

"It is a suit of servant's livery!" gasped I, and fell back with a shudder.

That evening, after the sun had gone down, we buried those hateful garments in a ditch at the
bottom of the garden. Rest there perturbed body-coat, yellow trousers, brown gaiters, and all!

    "Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye!"

WHY MOLES HAVE HANDS

BY ANNE VIRGINIA CULBERTSON

One day the children came running to Aunt Nancy with a mole which one of the dogs had just
killed. They had never seen one before and were very curious as to what it might be.

"Well, befo' de king!" said Nancy, "whar y'all bin livin' dat you nuver seed a mole befo'?
Whar you come f'um mus' be a mighty cur'ous spot ef dey ain' have no moleses dar; mus' be sump'n
wrong wid dat place. I bin mos' all over dish yer Sussex kyounty endurin' er my time, an' I
ain' nuver come 'cross no place yit whar dey ain' have moleses.

"Moleses is sut'n'y cur'ous li'l creeturs," she continued. "I bin teckin' tickler notuss un
'em dis long time, an' dey knows mo'n you'd think fer, jes' ter look at 'em. Dough dey lives
down un'need de groun', yit dey is fus'class swimmers; I done seed one, wid my own eyes, crossin'
de branch, an' dey kin root 'long un'need de yearf mos' ez fas' ez a hoss kin trot on top uv
hit. Y'all neenter look dat-a-way, 'kase hit's de trufe; dey's jes' built fer gittin' 'long
fas' unner groun'. Der han's is bofe pickaxes an' shovels fer 'em; dey digs an' scoops wid
der front ones an' kicks de dirt out de way wid der behime ones. Der strong snouts he'ps 'em,
too, ter push der way thu de dirt."

"Their fur is just as soft and shiny as silk," said Janey.

"Yas," said Aunt Nancy, "hit's dat sof an' shiny dat, dough dey live all time in de dirt, not
a speck er dirt sticks to 'em. You ses 'sof an' shiny ez silk,' but I tell you hit is silk;
silk clo'es, dat 'zackly w'at 'tis."

Ned laughed. "Who ever heard of an animal dressed in silk clothes?" he said.

"Nemmine," she answered, "you talks mighty peart, but I knows w'at I knows, an' dish yer I
bin tellin' you is de sho'-'nuff trufe."

"Just see its paws," Janey went on, "why, they look exactly like hands."

"Look lak han's! look lak han's! umph! dey is han's, all thumbered an' fingered jes lak yo'n;
an', w'at's mo', dey wuz onct human ban's; human, dey wuz so!"

"How could they ever have been human hands and then been put on a mole's body?" asked Ned.
"I believe most things you say, Aunt Nancy, but I can't swallow that."

"Dar's a li'l boy roun' dese diggin's whar talkin' mighty sassy an' rambunkshus, seem ter me.
I am' ax you ter swoller nuttin' 't all, but 'pears ter me y'all bin swollerin' dem 'ar ol'
tales right an' lef, faster'n' I kin call 'em ter min', an' I am' seed none er you choke on
'em yit, ner cry, 'nuff said. I'se 'tickler saw'y 'bout dis, 'kase I done had hit in min' ter
tell you a tale 'bout huccome moleses have han'ses, whar I larn f'um a ooman dat come f'um
Fauquier kyounty, but now dat Mars' Ned 'pear ter be so jubous 'bout hit, I ain' gwine was'e
my time on folks whar ain' gwine b'lieve me, nohows. Nemmine, de chillen over on de Thompson
place gwine baig me fer dat tale w'en I goes dar ag'in, an', w'at's mo', dey gwine git hit;
fer dey b'lieves ev'y wu'd dat draps f'um my mouf, lak 'twuz de law an' de gospil."

Of course, the children protested that they were as ready to hang upon her words as the Thompson
children could possibly be, and presented their prior claim to the tale in such moving fashion
that Aunt Nancy was finally prevailed upon to come down from her high horse and tell the story.

"I done tol' you," she said, "dat dem 'ar han's is human, an' I mean jes' w'at I ses, 'kase
de moleses useter be folks, sho'-'nuff folks, dough dey is all swunk up ter dis size an' der
han's is all dat's lef ter tell de tale. Yas, suh, in de ol' days, so fur back dat you kain't
kyount hit, de moleses wuz folks, an' mighty proud an' biggitty folks at dat. Dey wan't gwine
be ketched wearin' any er dish yer kaliker, er linsey-woolsey, er homespun er sech ez dat,
ner even broadclawf, ner bombazine, naw suh! Dey jes' tricked derse'fs out in de fines' an'
shinies' er silk, nuttin' mo' ner less, an' den dey went a-traipsin' up an' down an' hether
an' yon, fer tu'rr folks ter look at an' mek 'miration over. Mo'n dat, dey 'uz so fine an'
fiddlin' dey oon set foot ter de groun' lessen dar wuz a kyarpet spread down fer 'em ter walk
on. Dey tells me hit sut'n'y wuz a sight in de worl' ter see dem 'ar folks walkin' up an' down
on de kyarpets, trailin' an' rus'lin' der silk clo'es, an' curchyin' an' bobbin' ter one nu'rr
w'en dey met up, but nuver speakin' ter de common folks whar walkin' on de groun', ner even
so much ez lookin' at 'em. W'ats mo', dey wuz so uppish dey thought de yearf wuz too low down
fer 'em even ter run der eyes over, so dey went 'long wid der haids r'ared an' der eyes all
time lookin' up, stidder down. You kin be sho' dem gwines-on ain' mek 'em pop'lous wid tu'rr
folks, 'kase people jes' natchelly kain't stan' hit ter have you th'owin' up to 'em dat you
is better'n w'at dey is, w'en all de time dey knows you're nuttin' but folks, same 'z dem.

"Dey kep' gwine on so-fashion, an' gittin' mo' an' mo' pompered an' uppish, 'twel las' dey
'tracted de 'tention er de Lawd, an' He say ter Hisse'f, He do, 'Who is dese yer folks, anyhows,
whar gittin' so airish, walkin' up an' down an' back an' fo'th on my yearf an' spurnin' hit
so's't dey spread kyarpets 'twix' hit an' der footses, treatin' my yearf, w'at I done mek,
lak 'twuz de dirt un'need der footses, an' 'spisin' der feller creeturs an' excusin' 'em er
bein' common, an' keepin' der eyes turnt up all de time, ez ef dey wuz too good ter look at
de things I done mek an' putt on my yearf? I mus' see 'bout dis; I mus' punish dese 'sumptious
people an' show 'em dat one'r my creeturs is jez' ez low down ez tu'rr, in my sight.'

"So de Lawd He pass jedgment on de moleses. Fus' He tuck an' made 'em lose der human shape
an' den He swunk 'em up ontwel dey 'z no bigger'n dey is now, dat 'uz ter show 'em how no-kyount
dey wuz in His sight. Den bekase dey thought derse'fs too good ter walk 'pun de bare groun'
He sont 'em ter live un'need hit, whar dey hatter dig an' scratch der way 'long. Las' uv all
He tuck an' tuck 'way der eyes an' made 'em blin', dat's 'kase dey done 'spise ter look at
der feller creeturs. But He feel kind er saw'y fer 'em w'en He git dat fur, an' He ain' wanter
punish 'em too haivy, so He lef 'em dese silk clo'es whar I done tol' you 'bout, an' dese han's
whar you kin see fer yo'se'fs is human, an' I reckon bofe dem things putt 'em in min' er w'at
dey useter be an' rack 'em 'umble. Uver sence den de moleses bin gwine 'long un'need de groun',
'cordin ter de jedgmen' er de Lawd, an' diggin' an' scratchin' der way thu de worl', in trial
an' tribilashun, wid dem po' li'l human han'ses. An' dat orter l'arn you w'at comes er folks
'spisin' der feller creeturs, an' I want y'all ter 'member dat nex' time I year you call dem
Thompson chillen 'trash.'"

"I'd like to know what use moles are," said Ned, who was of rather an investigating turn of
mind; "they just go round rooting through the ground spoiling people's gardens, and I don't
see what they're good for; you can't eat them or use them any way."

"Sho', chil'!" said Aunt Nancy, "you dunno w'at you talkin' 'bout; de Lawd have some use fer
ev'y creetur He done mek. Dey tells me dat de moleses eats up lots er bugs an' wu'ms an' sech
ez dat, dat mought hurt de craps ef dey wuz let ter live. Sidesen dat, jes' gimme one'r de
claws er dat mole, an' lemme hang hit roun' de neck uv a baby whar cuttin' his toofs, an' I
boun' you, ev'y toof in his jaws gwine come bustin' thu his goms widout nair' a ache er a pain
ter let him know dey's dar. Don't talk ter me 'bout de moleses bein' wufless! I done walk de
flo' too much wid cryin' babies not ter know de use er moleses."

"You don't really believe that, do you?" asked Ned.

"B'lieve hit!" she answered indignantly; "I don' b'lieve hit, I knows hit. I done tol' you
all de things a hyar's foot kin do; w'ats de reason a mole's foot ain' good fer sump'n, too?
Ef folks on'y knowed mo' about sech kyores ez dat dar neenter be so much sickness an' mis'ry
in de worl'. I done kyored myse'f er de rheumatiz in my right arm jes' by tyin' a eel-skin
roun' hit, an' ev'yb'dy on dis plantation knows dat ef you'll wrop a chil's hya'r wid eel-skin
strings hit's boun' ter mek hit grow. Ef you want de chil' hisse'f ter grow an' ter walk soon
you mus' bresh his feet wid de broom. I oon tell you dis ef I hadn't tried 'em myse'f. You
mus'n' talk so biggitty 'bout w'at you dunno nuttin' 't all about. You come f'um up Norf yonner,
an' mebbe dese things don' wu'k de same dar ez w'at dey does down yer whar we bin 'pendin'
on 'em so long."

A PSALM OF LIFE

BY PHOEBE CARY

    Tell me not, in idle jingle,
      Marriage is an empty dream,
    For the girl is dead that's single,
      And things are not what they seem.

    Married life is real, earnest,
      Single blessedness a fib,
    Taken from man, to man returnest,
      Has been spoken of the rib.

    Not enjoyment, and not sorrow,
      Is our destined end or way;
    But to act, that each to-morrow
      Nearer brings the wedding-day.

    Life is long, and youth is fleeting,
      And our hearts, if there we search,
    Still like steady drums are beating
      Anxious marches to the Church.

    Lives of married folks remind us
      We can live our lives as well,
    And, departing, leave behind us;--
      Such examples as will tell;--

    Such examples, that another,
      Sailing far from Hymen's port,
    A forlorn, unmarried brother,
      Seeing, shall take heart, and court.

    Let us then be up and doing,
      With the heart and head begin;
    Still achieving, still pursuing,
      Learn to labor, and to win!

AN ODYSSEY OF K'S

BY WILBUR D. NESBIT

    I've traveled up and down this land
      And crossed it in a hundred ways,
    But somehow can not understand
      These towns with names chock-full of K's.
    For instance, once it fell to me
      To pack my grip and quickly go--
    I thought at first to Kankakee
      But then remembered Kokomo.
    "Oh, Kankakee or Kokomo,"
    I sighed, "just which I do not know."

    Then to the ticket man I went--
      He was a snappy man, and bald,
    Behind an iron railing pent--
      And I confessed that I was stalled.
    "A much K'd town is booked for me,"
      I said. "I'm due to-morrow, so
    I wonder if it's Kankakee
      Or if it can be Kokomo."
    "There's quite a difference," growled he,
    "'Twixt Kokomo and Kankakee."

    He spun a yard of tickets out--
      The folded kind that makes a strip
    And leaves the passenger in doubt
      When the conductor takes a clip.
    He flipped the tickets out, I say,
      And asked: "Now, which one shall it be?
    I'll sell you tickets either way--
      To Kokomo or Kankakee."
    And still I really did not know--
    I thought it might be Kokomo.

    At any rate, I took a chance;
      He struck his stamp-machine a blow
    And I, a toy of circumstance,
      Was ticketed for Kokomo.
    Upon the train I wondered still
      If all was right as it should be.
    Some mystic warning seemed to fill
      My mind with thoughts of Kankakee,
    The car-wheels clicked it out: "Now, he
    Had better be for Kankakee!"

    Until at last it grew so loud,
      At some big town I clambered out
    And elbowed madly through the crowd,
      Determined on the other route.
    The ticket-agent saw my haste;
      "Where do you wish to go?" cried he.
    I yelled: "I have no time to waste--
      Please fix me up for Kankakee!"
    Again the wheels, now fast, now slow,
    Clicked: "Ought to go to Kokomo!"

    Well, anyhow, I did not heed
      The message that they sent to me.
    I went, and landed wrong indeed--
      Went all the way to Kankakee.
    Then, in a rush, I doubled back--
      Went wrong again, I'd have you know.
    There was no call for me, alack!
      Within the town of Kokomo.

    And then I learned, confound the luck,
    I should have gone to Keokuk!

THE DEACON'S TROUT

BY HENRY WARD BEECHER

He was a curious trout. I believe he knew Sunday just as well as Deacon Marble did. At any
rate, the deacon thought the trout meant to aggravate him. The deacon, you know, is a little
waggish. He often tells about that trout. Sez he, "One Sunday morning, just as I got along
by the willows, I heard an awful splash, and not ten feet from shore I saw the trout, as long
as my arm, just curving over like a bow, and going down with something for breakfast. Gracious!
says I, and I almost jumped out of the wagon. But my wife Polly, says she, 'What on airth are
you thinkin' of, Deacon? It's Sabbath day, and you're goin' to meetin'! It's a pretty business
for a deacon!' That sort o' cooled me off. But I do say that, for about a minute, I wished
I wasn't a deacon. But 't wouldn't made any difference, for I came down next day to mill on
purpose, and I came down once or twice more, and nothin' was to be seen, tho' I tried him with
the most temptin' things. Wal, next Sunday I came along ag'in, and, to save my life I couldn't
keep off worldly and wanderin' thoughts. I tried to be sayin' my catechism, but I couldn't
keep my eyes off the pond as we came up to the willows. I'd got along in the catechism, as
smooth as the road, to the Fourth Commandment, and was sayin' it out loud for Polly, and jist
as I was sayin: 'What is required in the Fourth Commandment?' I heard a splash, and there was
the trout, and, afore I could think, I said: 'Gracious, Polly, I must have that trout.' She
almost riz right up, 'I knew you wa'n't sayin' your catechism hearty. Is this the way you answer
the question about keepin' the Lord's day? I'm ashamed, Deacon Marble,' says she. 'You'd better
change your road, and go to meetin' on the road over the hill. If I was a deacon, I wouldn't
let a fish's tail whisk the whole catechism out of my head'; and I had to go to meetin' on
the hill road all the rest of the summer."

ENOUGH[2]

BY TOM MASSON

    I shot a rocket in the air,
    It fell to earth, I knew not where
    Until next day, with rage profound,
    The man it fell on came around.
    In less time than it takes to tell,
    He showed me where that rocket fell;
    And now I do not greatly care
    To shoot more rockets in the air.

[Footnote 2: By permission of Life Publishing Company.]

THE FIGHTING RACE

BY JOSEPH I.C. CLARKE

    "Read out the names!" and Burke sat back,
      And Kelly drooped his head,
    While Shea--they call him Scholar Jack--
      Went down the list of the dead.
    Officers, seamen, gunners, marines,
      The crews of the gig and yawl,
    The bearded man and the lad in his teens,
      Carpenters, coal-passers--all.
    Then knocking the ashes from out his pipe,
      Said Burke, in an off-hand way,
    "We're all in that dead man's list, by Cripe!
      Kelly and Burke and Shea."
    "Well, here's to the Maine, and I'm sorry for Spain!"
      Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

    "Wherever there's Kellys there's trouble," said Burke.
      "Wherever fighting's the game,
    Or a spice of danger in grown man's work,"
      Said Kelly, "you'll find my name."
    "And do we fall short," said Burke, getting mad,
      "When it's touch and go for life?"
    Said Shea, "It's thirty-odd years, be dad,
      Since I charged to drum and fife
    Up Marye's Heights, and my old canteen
      Stopped a Rebel ball on its way.
    There were blossoms of blood on our sprigs of green--
      Kelly and Burke and Shea--
    And the dead didn't brag." "Well, here's to the flag!"
      Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

    "I wish 'twas in Ireland, for there's the place,"
      Said Burke, "that we'd die by right,
    In the cradle of our soldier race,
      After one good stand-up fight.
    My grandfather fell on Vinegar Hill,
      And fighting was not his trade;
    But his rusty pike's in the cabin still,
      With Hessian blood on the blade."
    "Aye, aye," said Kelly, "the pikes were great
      When the word was 'Clear the way!'
    We were thick on the roll in ninety-eight--
      Kelly and Burke and Shea."
    "Well, here's to the pike and the sword and the like!"
      Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

    And Shea, the scholar, with rising joy,
      Said "We were at Ramillies.
    We left our bones at Fontenoy,
      And up in the Pyrenees,
    Before Dunkirk, on Landen's plain,
      Cremona, Lille, and Ghent,
    We're all over Austria, France, and Spain,
      Wherever they pitched a tent.
    We've died for England from Waterloo
      To Egypt and Dargai;
    And still there's enough for a corps or crew,
      Kelly and Burke and Shea."
    "Well, here is to good honest fighting blood!"
      Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

    "Oh, the fighting races don't die out,
      If they seldom die in bed,
    For love is first in their hearts, no doubt,"
      Said Burke. Then Kelly said:
    "When Michael, the Irish Archangel, stands,
      The angel with the sword,
    And the battle-dead from a hundred lands
      Are ranged in one big horde,
    Our line, that for Gabriel's trumpet waits,
      Will stretch tree deep that day,
    From Jehoshaphat to the Golden Gates--
      Kelly and Burke and Shea."
      "Well, here's thank God for the race and the sod!"
      Said Kelly and Burke and Shea.

THE ORGAN

BY HENRY WARD BEECHER

At one of his week night lectures, Beecher was speaking about the building and equipping of
new churches. After a few satirical touches about church architects and their work, he went
on to ridicule the usual style of pulpit--the "sacred mahogany tub"--"plastered up against
some pillar like a barn-swallow's nest." Then he passed on to the erection of the organ, and
to the opening recital.

"The organ long expected has arrived, been unpacked, set up, and gloried over. The great players
of the region round about, or of distant celebrity, have had the grand organ exhibition; and
this magnificent instrument has been put through all its paces in a manner which has surprised
every one, and, if it had had a conscious existence, must have surprised the organ itself most
of all. It has piped, fluted, trumpeted, brayed, thundered. It has played so loud that everybody
was deafened, and so soft that nobody could hear. The pedals played for thunder, the flutes
languished and coquetted, and the swell died away in delicious suffocation, like one singing
a sweet song under the bed-clothes. Now it leads down a stupendous waltz with full brass, sounding
very much as if, in summer, a thunderstorm should play, 'Come, Haste to the Wedding,' or 'Moneymusk.'
Then come marches, galops, and hornpipes. An organ playing hornpipes ought to have elephants
as dancers.

"At length a fugue is rendered to show the whole scope and power of the instrument. The theme,
like a cautious rat, peeps out to see if the coast is clear; and, after a few hesitations,
comes forth and begins to frisk a little, and run up and down to see what it can find. It finds
just what it did not want, a purring tenor lying in ambush and waiting for a spring; and as
the theme comes incautiously near, the savage cat of a tenor springs at it, misses its hold,
and then takes after it with terrible earnestness. But the tenor has miscalculated the agility
of the theme. All that it could do, with the most desperate effort, was to keep the theme from
running back into its hole again; and so they ran up and down, around and around, dodging,
eluding, whipping in and out of every corner and nook, till the whole organ was aroused, and
the bass began to take part, but unluckily slipped and rolled down-stairs, and lay at the bottom
raving and growling in the most awful manner, and nothing could appease it. Sometimes the theme
was caught by one part, and dangled for a moment, then with a snatch, another part took it
and ran off exultant, until, unawares, the same trick was played on it; and, finally, all the
parts, being greatly exercised in mind, began to chase each other promiscuously in and out,
up and down, now separating and now rushing in full tilt together, until everything in the
organ loses patience and all the 'stops' are drawn, and, in spite of all that the brave organist
could do--who bobbed up and down, feet, hands, head and all--the tune broke up into a real
row, and every part was clubbing every other one, until at length, patience being no longer
a virtue, the organist, with two or three terrible crashes, put an end to the riot, and brought
the great organ back to silence."

MY GRANDMOTHER'S TURKEY-TAIL FAN

BY SAMUEL MINTURN PECK

    It owned not the color that vanity dons
      Or slender wits choose for display;
    Its beautiful tint was a delicate bronze,
      A brown softly blended with gray.
    From her waist to her chin, spreading out without break,
      'Twas built on a generous plan:
    The pride of the forest was slaughtered to make
      My grandmother's turkey-tail fan.

    For common occasions it never was meant:
      In a chest between two silken cloths
    'Twas kept safely hidden with careful intent
      In camphor to keep out the moths.
    'Twas famed far and wide through the whole countryside,
      From Beersheba e'en unto Dan;
    And often at meeting with envy 'twas eyed,
      My grandmother's turkey-tail fan.

    Camp-meetings, indeed, were its chiefest delight.
      Like a crook unto sheep gone astray
    It beckoned backsliders to re-seek the right,
      And exhorted the sinners to pray.
    It always beat time when the choir went wrong,
      In psalmody leading the van.
    Old Hundred, I know, was its favorite song--
      My grandmother's turkey-tail fan.

    A fig for the fans that are made nowadays,
      Suited only to frivolous mirth!
    A different thing was the fan that I praise,
      Yet it scorned not the good things of earth.
    At bees and at quiltings 'twas aye to be seen;
      The best of the gossip began
    When in at the doorway had entered serene
      My grandmother's turkey-tail fan.

    Tradition relates of it wonderful tales.
      Its handle of leather was buff.
    Though shorn of its glory, e'en now it exhales
      An odor of hymn-books and snuff.
    Its primeval grace, if you like, you can trace:
      'Twas limned for the future to scan,
    Just under a smiling gold-spectacled face,
      My grandmother's turkey-tail fan.

HOW TO ENJOY THE ECSTASY THAT ACCOMPANIES SUCCESSFUL SPEAKING

Before An Audience

OR

The Use of the Will in Public Speaking

By NATHAN SHEPPARD

Talks to the Students of the University of St. Andrew and the University of Aberdeen

This is not a book on elocution, but it deals in a practical common-sense way with the requirements
and constituents of effective public speaking.

CAPITAL, FAMILIAR, AND RACY

     "I shall recommend it to our three schools of elocution. It is
     capital, familiar, racy, and profoundly philosophical."--Joseph T.
     Duryea, D.D.

REPLETE WITH PRACTICAL SENSE

     "It is replete with practical sense and sound suggestions, and I
     should like to have it talked into the students by the
     author."--Prof. J.H. Gilmore, Rochester University.

"KNOCKS TO FLINDERS" OLD THEORIES

     "The author knocks to flinders the theories of elocutionist, and
     opposes all their rules with one simple counsel--'Wake up your
     will.'"--The New York Evangelist.

TO REACH, MOVE, AND INFLUENCE MEN

     "He does not teach elocution, but the art of public speaking....
     Gives suggestions that will enable one to reach and move and
     influence men."--The Pittsburg Chronicle.

12mo, Cloth, 152 Pages. Price, 75 cents

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

FORCEFUL SPEAKING BY NEW METHODS

THE ESSENTIALS OF ELOCUTION

Revised, Enlarged, New Matter

By ALFRED AYRES

Author of "The Orthoepist," "The Verbalist," etc., etc.

A unique and valuable guide on the art of speaking the language so as to make the thought it
expresses clear and impressive. It is a departure from the old and conventional methods which
have tended so often to make mere automatons on the platform or stage instead of animated souls.

HIGHLY PRAISED BY AUTHORITIES

     "It is worth more than all the ponderous philosophies on the
     subject."--The Lutheran Observer.

     "It is a case where brevity is the soul of value."--The Rochester
     Herald.

     "His suggestions are simple and sensible."--The
     Congregationalist.

     "An unpretentious but really meritorious volume."--Dramatic
     Review.

     "Mr. Ayres has made this subject a study for many years, and what
     he has written is worth reading"--The Dramatic News.

     "It is brightly written and original."--Richard Henry Stoddard.

16mo, Cloth, 174 Pages, Tasteful Binding Deckle Edges. With Frontispiece. 75 cts.

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

HOW TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC

A Most Suggestive and Practical Self-Instructor

By GRENVILLE KLEISER

Author of "Power and Personality in Speaking," etc.

This new book is a complete elocutionary manual comprizing numerous exercises for developing
the speaking voice, deep breathing, pronunciation, vocal expression, and gesture; also selections
for practise from masterpieces of ancient and modern eloquence. It is intended for students,
teachers, business men, lawyers, clergymen, politicians, clubs, debating societies, and, in
fact, every one interested in the art of public speaking.

OUTLINE OF CONTENTS

Mechanics of Elocution       Previous Preparation
Mental Aspects               Physical Preparation
Public Speaking              Mental Preparation
Selections for Practise      Moral Preparation
              Preparation of Speech

     "Many useful suggestions in it."--Hon. Joseph H. Choate, New
     York.

     "It is admirable and practical instruction in the technic of
     speaking, and I congratulate you upon your thorough work."--Hon.
     Albert J. Beveridge.

     "The work has been very carefully and well compiled from a large
     number of our best works on the subject of elocution. It contains
     many admirable suggestions for those who are interested in becoming
     better speakers. As a general text for use in teaching public
     speaking, it may be used with great success."

     John W. Wetzel, Instructor in Public Speaking, Yale University,
     New Haven, Conn.

12mo, Cloth. $1.25, Net; Post-paid, $1.40

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

HOW TO DEVELOP

Power and Personality

IN SPEAKING

By GRENVILLE KLEISER

Author of "How to Speak in Public." Introduction by Lewis O. Brastow, D.D., Professor Emeritus,
Yale Divinity School

This new book gives practical suggestions and exercises for Developing Power and Personality
in Speaking. It has many selections for practise.

POWER.--Power of Voice--Power of Gesture--Power of Vocabulary--Power of Imagination--Power
of English Style--Power of Illustration--Power of Memory--Power of Extempore Speech--Power
of Conversation--Power of Silence--Power of a Whisper--Power of the Eye.

PERSONALITY.--More Personality for the Lawyer--The Salesman--The Preacher--The Politician--The
Physician--The Congressman--The Alert Citizen.

     "I give it my hearty commendation. It should take its place upon
     the library shelves of every public speaker; be read carefully,
     consulted frequently, and held as worthy of faithful obedience. For
     lack of the useful hints that here abound, many men murder the
     truth by their method of presenting it."--S. PARKES CADMAN, D.D.,
     Brooklyn, N.Y.

     "It is a book of value. The selections are fine. It is an excellent
     book for college students."--WM. P. FRYE, President pro tem. of
     the United States Senate.

12mo, Cloth, 422 pages. $1.25, net; by mail, $1.35

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK AND LONDON

How to

ARGUE AND WIN

IN CONVERSATION, IN SALESMANSHIP, IN COMMITTEE-MEETINGS, IN JURY CASES,
IN THE PULPIT, ON THE ROSTRUM, IN DEBATING SOCIETIES.
     Logic will not make a dunce a philosopher, neither will it insure
     success where success is not deserved. But what he does offer the
     honest debater in this practical book, is to put him in possession
     of those laws of argumentation which lie at the bottom of sound
     reasoning, based on fact."--Times-Dispatch, Richmond, Va.

12mo, Cloth. $1.25, net; by mail, $1.40

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

"The Laugh Trust--Their Book"

HUMOROUS HITS AND HOW TO HOLD AN AUDIENCE

By GRENVILLE KLEISER

Author of "How to Speak in Public," etc.

A new collection of successful recitations, sketches, stories, poems, monologues. The favorite
numbers of favorite authors and entertainers. The book also contains practical advice on the
delivery of the selections. The latest and best book for family reading, for teachers, elocutionists,
orators, after-dinner speakers, and actors.

Mr. Kleiser gives also some practical suggestions as to the most successful methods of delivering
humorous or other selections, so that they may make the strongest impression upon an audience.
The book will not only be found to be just what teachers, elocutionists, actors, orators, and
after-dinner speakers have been waiting for, but it will also furnish entertaining material
to read aloud to the family.

FAVORITE SELECTIONS BY FAVORITE AUTHORS INCLUDING

James Whitcomb Riley Henry Drummond Paul Laurence Dunbar Edward Everett Hale Tom Masson Fred.
Emerson Brooks S.E. Kiser S.W. Foss Eugene Field Robert J. Burdette Bill Nye W.J. Lampton W.D.
Nesbit Thos. Bailey Aldrich Nixon Waterman Ben King Walt Whitman Mark Twain Finley Peter Dunne
Richard Mansfield Charles Follen Adams Charles Batell Loomis Joe Kerr Wallace Irwin AND MANY OTHERS

Cloth, 12mo, 316 pages Price, $1, Net; Post-paid, $1.10

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

SPEECHES OF

William Jennings Bryan

Revised and Arranged by Himself

In Five Uniform Volumes, Thin 12mo, Ornamented Boards--Dainty Style

Following Are the Titles:

  THE PEOPLE'S LAW--A discussion of State Constitutions and what they
      should contain.
  THE PRICE OF A SOUL
  THE VALUE OF AN IDEAL
  THE PRINCE OF PEACE
  MAN

Reprinted in this form from Volume II of Mr. Bryan's Speeches. Each of these four addresses
has been delivered before many large audiences.

These five volumes make a most attractive series.

Price of Each, 30 cents, net. Postage 5 cents

       *       *       *       *       *

Two Other Notable Speeches

THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES; to which is added FAITH. The most important address by Mr. Bryan since
his two volumes of "Selected Speeches" were compiled, with one of the best of those added.

One 16mo Volume, in Flexible Leather, with Gilt-Top. 75 cents, net. Postage 5 cents

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

THE ORIGIN AND GROWTH OF THE LANGUAGE AND ITS LITERATURE

Essentials of English Speech and Literature

By FRANK H. VIZETELLY, Litt.D., LL.D.

Managing Editor of the Funk & Wagnalls New Standard Dictionary; Author of "A Desk-Book of Errors
in English," etc.

A record, in concise and interesting style, of the Origin, Growth, Development, and Mutations
of the English language. It treats of Literature and its Elements; of the Dictionary as a Text-Book,
and its Functions; of Grammar, Phonetics, Pronunciation, and Reading; of the Bible as a model
of pure English; of Writing for Publication and of Individuality in Writing; also of the Corruption
of English Speech.

An Appendix of the principal Authors and their works, and a Selection of a Hundred Best Books
is included.

     Raymond Weeks, Ph.D., Prof. Romance Languages, Columbia
     University, says it is: "One of the most valuable books on this
     subject which have come into my hands for a long time."

     Brander Matthews, Litt.D., LL.D., says it is: "A good book--a
     book likely to do good, because it is generally sound and always
     stimulating."

8vo, Cloth, 428 pages. $1.50 net; average carriage charges, 12 cents

FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY, Publishers NEW YORK and LONDON

