Notwithstanding the severe etiquette of the Emperor's court, there were always a few privileged
persons who had the right to enter his apartment, even when he was in bed, though the number
was small.  They consisted of the following persons:--

M. de Talleyrand, vice grand elector; de Montesquiou, grand chamberlain; de Remusat, first
chamberlain; Maret, Corvisart, Denon, Murat, Yvan; Duroc, grand marshal; and de Caulaincourt,
grand equerry.

For a long time all these personages came to the Emperor's apartment almost every morning,
and their visits were the origin of what was afterwards called 'le petit lever'.  M. de Lavalette
also came frequently, and also M. Real and Messieurs Fouche and Savary while each of them was
minister of police.

The princes of the imperial family also enjoyed the right to enter the Emperor's apartment
in the morning.  I often saw the Emperor's mother. The Emperor kissed her hand with much respect
and tenderness, but I have many times heard him reproach her for her excessive economy.  Madame
Mere listened, and then gave as excuse for not changing her style of living reasons which often
vexed his Majesty, but which events have unfortunately justified.

Madame Mere had been a great beauty, and was still very pretty, especially when I saw her for
the first time.  It was impossible to find a better mother; devoted to her children; she lavished
on them the sagest counsels, and always intervened in family quarrels to sustain those whom
she thought in the right; for a long time she took Lucien's part, and I have often heard her
warmly defend Jerome when the First Consul was most severe towards his young brother.  The
only fault in Madame Mere's character was her excessive economy, and on this point astonishing
things could be said without fear of exaggeration, but she was beloved by every one in the
palace for her kindness and affability.

I recall in reference to Madame Mere an incident which greatly amused the Empress Josephine.
Madame was spending several days at Malmaison, when one day one of her ladies, whom she had
caused to be sent for, found, on entering the room, to her great astonishment, Cardinal Fesch
discharging the duty of a lady's maid by lacing up his sister, who had on only her underclothing
and her corset.

One of the subjects on which the Emperor would listen to no raillery was that of custom-house
duties, and towards all contraband proceeding he showed inflexible severity; and this reached
such a point, that one day M. Soiris, director of the custom-house at Verceil, having seized
a package of sixty cashmere shawls, sent from Constantinople to the Empress, the Emperor approved
his action, and the cashmeres were sold for the benefit of the state.  In such cases the Emperor
always said, "How can a sovereign have the laws respected if he does not respect them himself?"
I recall another occasion, and I think the only instance in which he permitted an infraction
of the custom-house regulations; but we shall see the question was not that of ordinary smuggling.

The grenadiers of the Old Guard, under the orders of General Soules, returned to France after
the peace of Tilsit.  On their arrival at Mayence, the custom-house officers endeavored to
perform their duty, and consequently inspected the chests of the Guard and those of the general.
Meanwhile, the director of the custom-house, in doubt what proceedings to take, sought the
general to inform him of the necessity he was under of executing the laws, and of carrying
out the direct orders of the Emperor. The general's reply to this courteous overture was plain
and energetic: "If a single officer dares to place his hand on the boxes of my old mustaches,
I'll throw him into the Rhine!"  The officer insisted.  The custom-house employees were quite
numerous, and were preparing to proceed with the inspection, when General Soules had the boxes
put in the middle of the square, and a regiment detailed to guard them.  The director of the
custom-house, not daring to proceed further, sent to the director- general a report to be submitted
to the Emperor.  Under any other circumstances the case would have been serious; but the Emperor
had just returned to Paris, where he had been welcomed more heartily than ever before by the
acclamations of the people on the occasion of the fetes celebrated in honor of peace, and this
old Guard was returning home resplendent with glory, and after most admirable behavior at Eylau.
All these things combined to quell the Emperor's anger; and having decided not to punish, he
wished to reward them, and not to take seriously their infraction of his custom-house regulations.
General Soules, on reaching Paris, presented himself before the Emperor, who received him cordially,
and, after some remarks relative to the Guard, added: "By the by, what is this you have been
doing?  I heard of you.  What!  you really threatened to throw my custom-house officers into
the Rhine!  Would you have done it?"--"Yes, Sire," replied the general, with his German accent,
"yes; I would have done it.  It was an insult to my old grenadiers to attempt to inspect their
boxes."--"Come, now," said the Emperor very affably, "I see just how it is.  You have been
smuggling."--"I, Sire?"--"Yes, I say.  You have been smuggling.  You bought linen in Hanover.
You wanted to furnish your house handsomely, as you imagined I would appoint you senator. 
You were not mistaken.  Go and have your senator's coat made, but do not repeat this performance,
for next time I will have you shot."

During our stay at Bayonne, in 1808, every one was struck with the awkward manners of the King
and Queen of Spain, and the poor taste displayed in their toilets, the disgraceful appearance
of their equipages, and a certain air of constraint and embarrassment which was general among
all the persons of their suite.  The elegant manners of the French and the magnificence of
the imperial equipages furnished such a contrast to all this that it rendered them indescribably
ridiculous.  The Emperor, who had such exquisite tact in all matters, was not one of the last
to perceive this, but, nevertheless, was not pleased that an opportunity should be found to
ridicule crowned heads.  One morning at his toilet he said to me, "I say, then, Monsieur le
drole, you, who are so well versed in these matters, give a few hints to the valet de chambre
of the King and Queen of Spain.  They appear so awkward they really excite my pity."  I eagerly
did what his Majesty suggested; but he did not content himself with this, but also communicated
to the Empress Josephine his observations on the queen and her ladies.  The Empress Josephine,
who was the embodiment of taste, gave orders accordingly; and for two days her hairdressers
and women were occupied exclusively in giving lessons in taste and elegance to their Spanish
brethren.  This is a striking evidence of how the Emperor found time for everything, and could
descend from his elevated duties to the most insignificant affairs.

The grand marshal of the palace (Duroc) was almost the same height as the Emperor.  He walked
badly and ungracefully, but had a tolerably good head and features.  He was quick tempered,
impulsive, and swore like a soldier; but he had much administrative ability, of which he gave
more than one proof in the organization of the imperial household, which was ably and wisely
regulated.  When the enemy's cannon deprived his Majesty of this devoted servitor and sincere
friend, the Empress Josephine said that she knew only two men capable of filling his place;
these were General Drouot and M. de Flahaut, and the whole household hoped that one of these
two gentlemen would be nominated; this, however, was not the case.

M. de Caulaincourt, Duke of Vicenza, was extremely severe towards the household; but he was
just and of a chivalrous loyalty, and his word was as good as a contract: He was feared and
yet beloved.  He had a piercing eye, spoke quickly and with great ease.  The Emperor's regard
for him was well known, and certainly no one was more worthy of it than he.

The Count de Remusat was of medium height, with a smooth, white face, obliging, amiable, and
with natural politeness and good taste; but he was extravagant, lacked order in managing his
own affairs and consequently those of the Emperor.  This lavish expenditure, which is admirable
from one point of view, might have suited any other sovereign; but the Emperor was economical,
and though, much attached to M. de Remusat, dismissed him from the head of the wardrobe bureau,
and put in his place Monsieur de Turenne, who exercised the strictest economy.  M. de Turenne
possessed perhaps a little too much of what his predecessor lacked, but it was exactly this
that pleased the Emperor.  M. de Turenne was quite a pretty man, thinking perhaps a little
too much of himself, a great talker and Anglo-maniac, which led the Emperor to give him the
name of my lord Kinsester (who cannot be silent); but he told a story well, and sometimes his
Majesty took pleasure in making him relate the chronicles of Paris.

When the Count of Turenne replaced the Count of Remusat in the office of grand master of the
wardrobe, in order not to exceed the sum of twenty thousand francs which his Majesty allowed
for his toilet, he exercised the greatest possible economy in the quantity, price, and quality
of things indispensable to the household.  I have been told, but I do not know whether it is
true, that, in order to ascertain exactly what were the profits of the Emperor's furnishers,
he went to the various factories of Paris with samples of gloves, silk stockings, aloes wood,
etc.; but, even if this is true, it only does honor to the zeal and probity of M. de Turenne.

I knew very little of Count Segur, grand master of ceremonies.  It was said in the household
that he was haughty and somewhat abrupt, but perfectly polite and intelligent, with a delicate
and refined face.

It would be necessary to have witnessed the perfect order which reigned in the Emperor's household
to comprehend it fully.  From the time of the Consulate, General Duroc had brought into the
administration of the interior affairs of the palace that spirit of order and economy which
especially characterized him.  But, great as was the Emperor's confidence in General Duroc,
he did not disdain to throw the glance of a master over things which seemed insignificant,
and with which, in general, sovereigns rarely occupy themselves.  Thus, for example, in the
beginning of the Empire there was some little extravagance in certain parts of the palace,
notably at Saint-Cloud, where the aides-de-camp kept open table; but this was, nevertheless,
far from equaling the excessive prodigality of the ancient regime.  Champagne and other wines
especially were used in great quantities, and it was very necessary that the Emperor should
establish regulations as to his cellar.  He summoned the chief of the household service, Soupe
Pierrugues, and said to him, "Monsieur, I commit to you the keys of my imperial cellars; you
will there have charge of the wines of all kinds; some are needed in my palaces of the Tuileries,
Saint- Cloud, Compiegne, Fontainebleau, Marrac, Lacken, and Turin.  Establish a moderate price
at all these residences, and you alone will furnish wines to my household."  This arrangement
was made, and all kinds of fraud were impossible, as the deputy of M. Soupe Pierrugues delivered
wines only on a note signed by the controller of the kitchen; all the bottles not opened were
returned, and each evening an account was given of what had been used for that day.

The service had the same regulations while we were on campaigns.  During the second campaign
of Vienna, I recollect that the house deputy of Soupe Pierrugues was M. Eugene Pierrugues,
frank, gay, witty, and much beloved by us all.  An imprudence cost him dear, for in consequence
of a heedlessness natural at his age he had his arm broken.  We were then at Schoenbrunn. 
Those who have seen this imperial residence know that splendid avenues extend in front of the
palace, leading to the road to Vienna.  As I often took horseback rides through the town, M.
Eugene Pierrugues wished to accompany me one day, and borrowed a horse from one of the quartermasters
of the palace.  He was forewarned that the horse was very fiery; but he paid no attention to
that, and immediately put him into a gallop.  I reined mine in, in order not to excite my companion's;
but in spite of this precaution the horse ran away, dashed into the woods, and broke the arm
of his unfortunate and imprudent rider. M. Eugene Pierrugues was, however, not unhorsed by
the blow, and kept his seat a short while after the injury; but it was very serious, and it
was necessary to carry him back to the palace.  I, more than any one else, was distressed by
this frightful accident; and we established a regular attendance on him, so that one at least
could always be with him when our duties allowed.  I have never seen suffering borne with more
fortitude; and it was carried to such a remarkable degree, that, finding his arm badly set,
at the end of a few days he had it again fractured, an operation which caused him horrible
suffering.

My uncle, who was usher of the Emperor's cabinet, related to me an anecdote which is probably
entirely unknown; since everything, as we shall see, occurred under cover of the most profound
mystery.  "One evening," he said to me, "Marshal Duroc gave me in person orders to extinguish
the lights in the saloon in front of his Majesty's cabinet, and to leave only a few candles
lighted.  I was surprised at such a novel order, especially as the grand marshal was not accustomed
to give them thus directly, but, nevertheless, executed it precisely, and waited at my post.
At ten o'clock Marshal Duroc returned, accompanied by a personage whose features it was impossible
to distinguish, as he was entirely wrapped in a large cloak, his head covered, and his hat
pulled down over his eyes.  I withdrew, leaving the two alone, but had hardly left the saloon
when the Emperor entered, and Marshal Duroc also retired, leaving the stranger alone with his
Majesty.  From the tone in which the Emperor spoke it was easy to see that he was greatly irritated.
He spoke very loud; and I heard him say, 'Well, Monsieur, you will never change then. It is
gold you want, always gold.  You draw on all foreign banks, and have no confidence in that
of Paris.  You have ruined the bank of Hamburg; you have caused M. Drouet (or Drouaut, for
the name was pronounced very quickly) to lose two millions:

"The Emperor," my uncle continued, "conversed in this strain for a long while, though the stranger
did not reply, or replied in so low a tone that it was impossible to hear a word; and the scene,
which must have been most trying to the mysterious personage, lasted about twenty minutes.
At last he was permitted to leave, which he did with the same precautions as on his arrival,
and retired from the palace as secretly as he had come."

Nothing of this scene was known in Paris; and, moreover, neither my uncle nor I have ever sought
to ascertain the name of the person whom the Emperor overwhelmed with such numerous and severe
reproaches.

Whenever circumstances allowed, the Emperor's habits of life were very regular, his time being
almost uniformly divided as follows.  Every morning, at nine o'clock precisely, the Emperor
left the imperial apartments; his exactness in observing hours was carried to an extreme, and
I have sometimes seen him wait two or three moments in order that no one might be taken by
surprise.  At nine o'clock his toilet was made for the whole day.  When he had reached the
reception-room, the officers on duty were first admitted, and received his Majesty's orders
for their time of service.

Immediately after this, what was called the grandes entrees took place. That is to say, personages
of high rank were admitted, who had this right on account of their duties, or by the special
favor of the Emperor; and I can assert that this favor was much envied.  It was granted generally
to all the officers of the imperial household, even if they were not on duty; and every one
remained standing, as did the Emperor also.  He made the tour of all the persons present, nearly
always addressed a remark or a question to each one; and it was amusing to see afterwards,
during the whole day, the proud and haughty bearing of those to whom the Emperor had spoken
a little longer than to others.  This ceremony usually lasted a half-hour, and as soon as it
was finished the Emperor bowed and each retired.

At half-past nine the Emperor's breakfast was served, usually on a small mahogany stand; and
this first repast commonly lasted only seven or eight minutes, though sometimes it was prolonged,
and even lasted quite a long while.  This, however, was only on rare occasions, when the Emperor
was in unusually good-humor, and wished to indulge in the pleasure of a conversation with men
of great merit, whom he had known a long while, and who happened to be present at his breakfast.
There he was no longer the formal Emperor of the levee; he was in a manner the hero of Italy,
the conqueror of Egypt, and above all the member of the Institute.  Those who came most habitually
were Messieurs Monge, Berthollet, Costaz (superintendent of crown buildings), Denon, Corvisart,
David, Gerard, Isabey, Talma, and Fontaine (his first architect).  How many noble thoughts,
how many elevated sentiments, found vent in these conversations which the Emperor was accustomed
to open by saying, "Come, Messieurs, I close the door of my cabinet."  This was the signal,
and it was truly miraculous to see his Majesty's aptitude in putting his genius in communication
with these great intellects with such diversities of talent.

I recall that, during the days preceding the Emperor's coronation, M. Isabey attended regularly
at the Emperor's breakfast, and was present almost every morning; and strange, too, it did
not seem an absurd thing to see children's toys used to represent the imposing ceremony which
was to exert such a great influence over the destinies of the world.  The intelligent painter
of his Majesty's cabinet portraits caused to be placed on a large table a number of small figures
representing all the personages who were to take part in the ceremony of the coronation; each
had his designated place; and no one was omitted, from the Emperor to the Pope, and even to
the choristers, each being dressed in the costume he was expected to wear.

These rehearsals took place frequently, and all were eager to consult the model in order to
make no mistake as to the place each was to occupy.  On those days, as may be imagined, the
door of the cabinet was closed, and in consequence the ministers sometimes, waited awhile.
Immediately after the breakfast the Emperor admitted his ministers and director generals; and
these audiences, devoted to the special work of each minister and of each director, lasted
until six o'clock in the evening, with the exception of those days on which his Majesty occupied
himself exclusively with governmental affairs, and presided over the council of state, or the
ministerial councils.

At the Tuileries and at Saint-Cloud dinner was served at six o'clock; and the Emperor dined
each day alone with the Empress, except on Sunday, when all the family were admitted to dinner.
The Emperor, Empress, and Madame Mere only were seated in armchairs; all others, whether kings
or queens, having only ordinary chairs.  There was only one course before the dessert.  His
Majesty usually drank Chambertin wine, but rarely without water, and hardly more than one bottle.
To dine with the Emperor was rather an honor than a pleasure to those who were admitted; for
it was necessary, to use the common expression, to swallow in post haste, as his Majesty never
remained at table more than fifteen or eighteen minutes. After his dinner, as after breakfast,
the Emperor habitually took a cup of coffee, which the Empress poured out.  Under the Consulate
Madame Bonaparte began this custom, because the General often forgot to take his coffee; she
continued it after she became Empress, and the Empress Marie Louise retained the same custom.

After dinner the Empress descended to her apartments, where she found assembled her ladies
and the officers on duty; and the Emperor sometimes accompanied her, but remained only a short
while.  Such was the customary routine of life in the palace at the Tuileries on those days
when there was neither the chase in the morning, nor concert nor theater in the evening; and
the life at Saint-Cloud differed little from that at the Tuileries.  Sometimes rides were taken
in coaches when the weather permitted; and on Wednesday, the day set for the council of ministers,
these officials were invariably honored by an invitation to dine with their Majesties.  When
there was a hunt at Fontainebleau, Rambouillet, or Compiegne, the usual routine was omitted;
the ladies followed in coaches, and the whole household dined with the Emperor and Empress
under a tent erected in the forest.  It sometimes happened, though rarely, that the Emperor
invited unexpectedly some members of his family to remain to dine with him; and this recalls
an anecdote which should have a place in this connection.  The King of Naples came one day
to visit the Emperor, and being invited to dine, accepted, forgetting that he was in morning
dress, and there was barely time for him to change his costume, and consequently none to return
to the Elysee, which he then inhabited.  The king ran quickly up to my room, and informed me
of his embarrassment, which I instantly relieved, to his great delight.  I had at that time
a very handsome wardrobe, almost all the articles of which were then entirely new; so I gave
him a shirt, vest, breeches, stockings, and shoes, and assisted him to dress, and fortunately
everything fitted as if it had been made especially for him.  He showed towards me the same
kindness and affability he always manifested, and thanked me in the most charming manner. 
In the evening the King of Naples, after taking leave of the Emperor, returned to my room to
resume his morning dress, and begged me to come to him next day at the laysee, which I did
punctually after relating to the Emperor all that had occurred, much to his amusement. On my
arrival at the Elysee I was immediately introduced into the king's apartments, who repeated
his thanks in the most gracious manner, and gave me a pretty Breguet watch.

     [Abraham Louis Breguet, the celebrated watchmaker, was born at
     Neuchatel, 1747; died 1823.  He made numerous improvements in
     watches and in nautical and astronomical instruments.]

During our campaigns I sometimes had occasion to render little services of the same nature
to the King of Naples; but the question was not then, as at Saint-Cloud, one of silk stockings,
for more than once on the bivouac I shared with him a bundle of straw, which I had been fortunate
enough to procure.  In such cases I must avow the sacrifice was much greater on my part than
when I had shared my wardrobe with him.  The king was not backward in expressing his gratitude;
and I thought it a most remarkable thing to see a sovereign, whose palace was filled with all
that luxury can invent to add to comfort, and all that art can create which is splendid and
magnificent, only too happy in procuring half of a bundle of straw on which to rest his head.

I will now give some fresh souvenirs which have just recurred to my mind concerning the Court
theater.  At Saint-Cloud, in order to reach the theater hall, it was necessary to cross the
whole length of the Orangery; and nothing could be more elegant than the manner in which it
was decorated on these occasions.  Rows of rare plants were arranged in tiers, and the whole
lighted by lamps; and during the winter the boxes were hidden by covering them with moss and
flowers, which produced a charming effect under the lights.

The parterre of the theater was usually filled with generals, senators, and councilors of state;
the first boxes were reserved for the princes and princesses of the imperial family, for foreign
princes, marshals, their wives, and ladies of honor.  In the second tier were placed all persons
attached to the Court.  Between the acts, ices and refreshments were served; but the ancient
etiquette had been re-established in one particular, which greatly displeased the actors,--no
applause was allowed; and Talma often told me that the kind of coldness produced by this silence
was very detrimental at certain parts where the actor felt the need of being enthused.  Nevertheless,
it sometimes happened that the Emperor, in testimony of his satisfaction, made a slight signal
with his hand; and then and also at the grandest periods we heard, if not applause, at least
a flattering murmur which the spectators were not always able to repress.

The chief charm of these brilliant assemblies was the presence of the Emperor; and consequently
an invitation to the theater of Saint-Cloud was an honor much desired.  In the time of the
Empress Josephine there were no representations at the palace in the absence of the Emperor;
but when Marie Louise was alone at Saint-Cloud during the campaign of Dresden, two representations
a week were given, and the whole repertoire of Gretry was played in succession before her Majesty.
At the end of each piece there was always a little ballet.

The theater of Saint-Cloud was, so to speak, on more than one occasion the theater of first
attempts.  For instance, M. Raynouard played there for the first time the 'Etats de Blois',
a work which the Emperor would not allow to be played in public, and which was not done, in
fact, until after the return of Louis XVIII.

'The Venetians' by M. Amand also made its first appearance on the theater of Saint-Cloud, or
rather of Malmaison.  This was not highly considered at the time; but the infallible judgment
the Emperor displayed in his choice of plays and actors was most remarkable.  He generally
gave M. Corvisart the preference in deciding these matters, on which he descanted with much
complacence when his more weighty occupations allowed.  He was usually less severe and more
just than Geoffroy;  and it is much to be desired that the criticisms and opinions of the Emperor
concerning authors and actors could have been preserved.  They would have been of much benefit
to the progress of art.

In speaking of the retreat from Moscow, I related previously in my memoirs that I had the good
fortune to offer a place in my carriage to the young Prince of Aremborg, and assisted him in
continuing his journey. I recall another occasion in the life of this prince, when one of my
friends was very useful to him, some particulars of which may not be without interest.

The Prince of Aremberg, an ordnance officer of the Emperor, had, as we know, married Mademoiselle
Tascher, niece of the Empress Josephine. Having been sent into Spain, he was there taken by
the English, and afterwards carried a prisoner to England.  His captivity was at first very
disagreeable; and he told me himself that he was very unhappy, until he made the acquaintance
of one of my friends, M. Herz, commissary of war, who possessed a fine mind, was very intelligent,
spoke several languages, and was, like the prince, a prisoner in England.  The acquaintance
formed at once between the prince and M. Herz soon became so intimate that they were constantly
together; and thus passed the time as happily as it can with one far from his native land and
deprived of his liberty.

They were living thus, ameliorating for each other the ennui of captivity, when M. Herz was
exchanged, which was, perhaps, a great misfortune for him, as we shall afterwards see.  At
all events, the prince was deeply distressed at being left alone; but, nevertheless, gave M.
Herz several letters to his family, and at the same time sent his mother his mustache, which
he had mounted in a medallion with a chain. One day the Princess of Aremberg arrived at Saint-Cloud
and demanded a private audience of the Emperor.

"My son," said she, "demands your Majesty's permission to attempt his escape from England."--"Madame,"
said the Emperor, "your request is most embarrassing!  I do not forbid your son, but I can
by no means authorize him."

It was at the time I had the honor of saving the Prince of Aremberg's life that I learned from
him these particulars.  As for my poor friend Herz, his liberty became fatal to him, owing
to an inexplicable succession of events.  Having been sent by Marshal Augereau to Stralsund
to perform a secret mission, he died there, suffocated by the fire of a brass stove in the
room in which he slept.  His secretary and his servant nearly fell victims to the same accident;
but, more fortunate than he, their lives were saved.  The Prince of Aremberg spoke to me of
the death of M. Herz with real feeling; and it was easy to see that, prince as he was and allied
to the Emperor, he entertained a most sincere friendship for his companion in captivity.

CHAPTER, XXXI.

MILITARY ANECDOTES.

I have collected under the title of Military Anecdotes some facts which came to my knowledge
while I accompanied the Emperor on his campaigns, and the authenticity of which I guarantee.
I might have scattered them through my memoirs, and placed them in their proper periods; my
not having done so is not owing to forgetfulness on my part, but because I thought that these
incidents would have an added interest by being collected together, since in them we see the
direct influence of the Emperor upon his soldiers, and thus can more easily form an exact idea
of the manner in which his Majesty treated them, his consideration for them, and their attachment
to his person.

During the autumn of 1804, between the time of the creation of the empire and the coronation
of the Emperor, his Majesty made several journeys to the camp of Boulogne; and from this fact
rumors arose that the expedition against England would soon set sail.  In one of his frequent
tours of inspection, the Emperor, stopping one day near the end of the camp on the left, spoke
to a cannoneer from a guard ship, and while conversing with him, asked him several questions,
among others, the following, "What is thought here of the Emperor?"--"That 'sacre tondu' puts
us out of breath as soon as he arrives.  Each time he comes we have not a moment's repose while
he is here.  It might be thought he was enraged against those dogs of English who are always
beating us, not much to our own credit."

"You believe in glory, then?"  said the Emperor.  The cannoneer then looked at him fixedly:
"Somewhat, I think.  Do you doubt it?"--"No, I do not doubt it, but money, do you believe in
that also?"--"Ah! what--I see --do you mean to insult me, you questioner?  I know no other
interest than that of the state."--"No, no, my brave soldier; I do not intend to insult you,
but I bet that a twenty-franc piece would not be disagreeable to you in drinking a cup to my
health."  While speaking thus the Emperor had drawn a Napoleon from his pocket, which he presented
to the cannoneer, whereupon the latter uttered a shout loud enough to be heard by the sentinel
at the west post some distance off; and even threw himself on the Emperor, whom he took for
a spy, and was about to seize him by the throat when the Emperor suddenly opened his gray overcoat
and revealed his identity.  The soldier's astonishment may be imagined!  He prostrated himself
at the feet of the Emperor, overcome with confusion at his mistake; but the latter, extending
his hand, said, "Rise, my brave fellow, you have done your duty; but you will not keep your
word, I am very sure; you will accept this piece, and drink to the health of the 'sacre tondo',
will you not?  "The Emperor then continued his rounds as if nothing had occurred.

Every one admits to-day that never, perhaps, has any man been gifted to the same degree as
the Emperor with the art of addressing soldiers.  He appreciated this talent highly in others;
but it was not fine phrases which pleased him, and accordingly he held that a master-piece
of this kind was the very short harangue of General Vandamme to the soldiers he commanded the
day of the battle of Austerlitz.  When day began to break General Vandamme said to the troops,
"My brave fellows!  There are the Russians!  Load your pieces, pick your flints, put powder
in the pan, fix bayonets, ready and--forward!"  I remember one day the Emperor spoke of this
oration before Marshal Berthier, who laughed at it.  "That is like you," he said.  "Well, all
the advocates of Paris would not have said it so well; the soldier understands this, and that
is the way battles are won."

When after the first campaign of Vienna, so happily terminated by the peace of Presburg, the
Emperor was returning to Paris, many complaints reached him against the exactions of certain
generals, notably General Vandamme.  Complaint was made, amongst other grievances, that in
the little village of Lantza this general had allowed himself five hundred florins per day,
that is to say, eleven hundred and twenty-five francs, simply for the daily expenses of his
table.  It was on this occasion the Emperor said of him: "Pillages like a madman, but brave
as Caesar." Nevertheless, the Emperor, indignant at such exactions, and determined to put an
end to them, summoned the general to Paris to reprimand him; but the latter, as soon as he
entered the Emperor's presence, began to speak before his Majesty had time to address him,
saying, "Sire, I know why you have summoned me; but as you know my devotion and my bravery
I trust you will excuse some slight altercations as to the furnishing of my table, matters
too petty, at any rate, to occupy your Majesty."  The Emperor smiled at the oratorical skillfulness
of General Vandamme, and contented himself with saying, "Well, well!  say no more, but be more
circumspect in future."

General Vandamme, happy to have escaped with so gentle an admonition, returned to Lantza to
resume his command.  He was indeed more circumspect than in the past; but he found and seized
the occasion to revenge himself on the town for the compulsory self-denial the Emperor had
imposed on him.  On his arrival he found in the suburbs a large number of recruits who had
come from Paris in his absence; and it occurred to him to make them all enter the town, alleging
that it was indispensable they should be drilled under his own eyes.  This was an enormous
expense to the town, which would have been very willing to recall its complaints, and continue
his expenses at the rate of five hundred florins per day.

The Emperor does not figure in the following anecdote.  I will relate it, however, as a good
instance of the manners and the astuteness of our soldiers on the campaign.

During the year 1806, a part of our troops having their quarters in Bavaria, a soldier of the
fourth regiment of the line, named Varengo, was lodged at Indersdorff with a joiner.  Varengo
wished to compel his host to pay him two florins, or four livres ten sous, per day for his
pleasures.  He had no right to exact this.  To succeed in making it to his interest to comply
he set himself to make a continual racket in the house.  The poor carpenter, not being able
to endure it longer, resolved to complain, but thought it prudent not to carry his complaints
to the officers of the company in which Varengo served.  He knew by his own experience, at
least by that of his neighbors, that these gentlemen were by no means accessible to complaints
of this kind.  He decided to address himself to the general commanding, and set out on the
road to Augsburg, the chief place of the arrondissement.

On his arrival at the bureau of the town, he was met by the general, and began to submit to
him an account of his misfortunes; but unfortunately the general did not know the German language,
so he sent for his interpreter, told the carpenter to explain himself, and inquired of what
he complained.  Now, the general's interpreting secretary was a quartermaster who had been
attached to the general's staff since the Peace of Presburg, and happened to be, as luck would
have it, the first cousin of this Varengo against whom the complaint was made.  Without hesitation
the quartermaster, as soon as he heard his cousin's name, gave an entirely incorrect translation
of the report, assuring the general that this peasant, although in very comfortable circumstances,
disobeyed the order of the day, in refusing to furnish fresh meat for the brave soldier who
lodged with him; and this was the origin of the disagreement on which the complaint was based,
no other motive being alleged for demanding a change.  The general was much irritated, and
gave orders to his secretary to require the peasant, under severe penalties, to furnish fresh
meat for his guest.  The order was written; but instead of submitting it to the supervision
of the general, the interpreting secretary wrote out at length that the carpenter should pay
two florins per day to Varengo.  The poor fellow, having read this in German, could not restrain
a movement of anger, seeing which, the general, thinking he had resisted the order, ordered
him out, threatening him with his riding- whip.  Thus, thanks to his cousin, the interpreter,
Varengo regularly received two florins per day, which enabled him to be one of the jolliest
soldiers in his company.

The Emperor did not like duelling.  He often pretended to be ignorant of duels; but when he
had to admit his knowledge of one, loudly expressed his dissatisfaction.  I recall in this
connection two or three circumstances which I shall attempt to relate.

