My query as to the authorship of The Adventures of Gaudentio di Lucca has drawn so satisfactory
a reply from your correspondents (whom I beg to thank most heartily for the information they
have communicated), that I am induced to ask you to aid me in ascertaining the authorships
of the following works of which I have copies:--

    "Histoire de l'Inquisition et son Origine. A Cologne, chez Pierre
    Marteau, M.DC.XCIII." 1 vol. 12mo.

Is this the same work as that mentioned in Watt's Bib. Brit. as--

    "The History of the Inquisition and its Origin, by James Marsollier,
    1693." 12mo.?

I have often searched for a copy of this work in English, but have never found it. Was it ever
translated into English?

    "L'INQUISIZIONE PROCESSATA OPERA STORICA E CURIOSA, Divisa in due Tomi.
    IN COLONIA APPRESSO PAULO DELLA TENAGLIA, M.DC.LXXXI."

I should like to know something of the authorship of these volumes, and of the circumstances
under which they were published.

    "The Slaughter-House, or a brief description of the Spanish
    Inquisition, &c., gathered together by the pains and study of James
    Salgado." N.D.

The biographical dictionaries within my reach give no account of Salgado. Who was he?

    "Historia Persecutionium Ecclesiæ Bohemicæ jam inde à primordiis
    Conversionis suæ ad Christianismum hoc est, 894, ad annum usque 1632,
    Ferdinando Secundo Austriaco regnante, &c., anno Domini M D CXLVIII." 1
    vol. 32mo.

I have an English translation of this small work, published in 1650. Can any of your readers
inform me who were the authors? (The preface concludes, "In our banishment in the year 1632.
N. N. N., &c.")

IOTA.

Liverpool, October, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Osnaburg Bishopric.--Can any of your correspondents inform me who succeeded the late Duke of
York as Bishop of Osnaburg? how the Duke of York attained it? and whether there were any ecclesiastical
duties attached to it? or whether the appointment was a lay one?

B. M.

Meaning of "Farlief".--May I ask for a definition of the word "farlief", used in Devonshire
to designate some service or payment to the lord of the manor by his copyholders, apparently
analogous to the old feudal "relief"?

V. J. S.

Margaret Dyneley.--In Stanford Dingley Church, Berkshire, there is a "brass" of Margaret Dyneley,
from whose family, I presume, the parish has received its appellation of Dingley. As, however,
I have not yet succeeded in obtaining any account as to this lady or her ancestors, I should
feel obliged by any information which your learned correspondents only be able to afford.

J. H. K.

Tristan d'Acunha.--COSMOPOLITE will be glad to have references to any authentic sources of
information respecting the island of Tristan d'Acunha.

Production of Fire by Friction.--In most of the accounts written by persons who have visited
the South Sea Islands, we meet with descriptions of the method adopted by the natives to produce
fire by the rapid attrition of two bits of wood. Now I wish to ask whether any person has ever
seen the same effect produced in this country by similar means? If not, to what cause is the
difficulty--if such difficulty really exists--attributable?

{359} Does it depend upon the nature of the wood used, the condition of the atmosphere, or
the dexterity of the operator? I have not quoted any particular passages, as they are sufficiently
familiar to readers of voyages and travels in the South Sea hemisphere; and although they exhibit
some diversity in the modus operandi, the principle involved is essentially the same in each
mode. I need scarcely add, that I am of course well aware of the means by which, whether by
accident or design, heat is ordinarily generated by friction in this country.

D.

Rotherfield.

Murderer hanged when pardoned.--I have a copy of the Protestant's Almanack for 1680, full of
MS. notes of the period, written by one of the Crew family. Among other matter it states:

    "A man was hung for a murder in Southwark (I think), notwithstanding
    the king's pardon had been obtained for him, and he actually had it in
    his pocket at the time."

Will some kind friend oblige me with further information of this case, or tell me where I may
obtain it?

GILBERT.

In what composition of Burke's is it to be found?

Q.(2.)

Licensing of Books.--Can any of your readers inform me what was the law in 1665 relative to
the licensing of books? also when it was introduced (or revived), and when modified? I find
in a manual of devotion printed in that year the following page, after the preface:--

    "I have perused this book, and finding nothing in it but what may tend
    to the increase of private devotion and piety, I recommend it to my
    Lord the Bishop of London for his licence to have it printed."

JO. DURESME.

     "Imprimatur:
  Tho. Grigg, R. P. D. Hamff.
      Ep. Lond. a Sac. Dom.
  Ex Ædibus, Lond.
      Mart. 28. 1665."

R. N.

Captain John Stevens.--I should be glad to learn some account of Capt. John Stevens, the continuator
of Dugdale's Monasticon in 1722. He is generally considered to have edited the English abridgment
of the Monasticon, in one vol. 1718, though a passage in Thoresby's Diary mentions that it
contained "some reflections upon the Reformation, which the Spanish Priest, who is said to
be translator and abridger of the three Latin volumes, would not omit."

A note by the editor of Thoresby's Diary says that--

    "Mr. Gough was uncertain by whom this Translation and Abridgment was
    prepared. He supposed that it was done by Captain Stevens, the author,
    or rather compiler of a valuable, Supplement to the Monasticon, in
    which he was assisted by Thoresby."

J. T. A.

Le Bon Gendarme.--Close to the boundary stone which separates the parishes of Fulham and Hammersmith,
and facing the lane which leads to Brook Green, on the Hammersmith Road, is a way-side public-house,
known as "The Black Bull." So late as three months ago, in addition to the sign of the Black
Bull, there was painted over the door, but somewhat high up, a worn-out inscription, "Le Bon
Gendarme," as if that had originally been the name of the inn. These words have been lately
effaced altogether: but as they no doubt relate to some circumstance or adventure which had
happened in or near to the place, perhaps some reader of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" will have
the goodness to satisfy the curiosity of one who has asked at the inn in vain for a solution.

U. U. C.

University Club.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

TASSO TRANSLATED BY FAIRFAX.

The variation in the first stanza of Fairfax's Godfrey of Bulloigne has been long known to
bibliographers, and was pointed out in The Critical Review more than thirty years ago. I cannot
fix on the particular number, but it contained a long notice of the version of Tasso by Fairfax,
and the very stanzas extracted by T. N. The translator could not please himself with the outset
of his undertaking, and hence the recorded substitution; but it is not known that he carried
his fastidiousness so far as to furnish a third version of the first stanza, as well as of
the "Argument" of the introductory canto, differing from both the others. In the instance pointed
out by T. N. the substitution was effected by pasting the approved stanza over the disapproved
stanza; but the third version was given by reprinting the whole leaf, which contains other
variations of typography, besides such as it was thought necessary to make in the first stanza.

