Cardinal Allen's Admonition (Vol. ii., p. 463.).--In the Grenville Library, at the British
Museum, there is a copy of this work, which I happen to have seen only a few hours before I
read Mr. Bliss's Query. Mr. Mendham's reprint of the Admonition, published by Duncan in 1842,
appeared to me to be remarkably accurate, from a hasty collation which I made of some parts
of it with the original. The Grenville copy was formerly Herbert's, and may possible be the
same which was sold for 35s. in Mr. Caldecott's sale in 1832. Connected with this Admonition
of Cardinal Allen, there is another question of some interest. This was drawn up by Cardinal
Allen, and printed at Antwerp; and copies were intended to be distributed in England upon the
landing of the Spanish Armada. Can any of your readers inform me who is the present possessor
of the document referred to, or whether it has ever been reprinted, or referred to by any writer?
Antony Wood, I am aware, refers to the document, but it is plain that he never saw it.

H.P.

Bolton's Ace (Vol. ii., p. 413.).--Ray's anecdote concerning the proverb, "Bate me an ace,
quoth Bolton," is perhaps more correctly told in the Witty Aunsweres and Saiengs of Englishmen
(Cotton MS. Jul. F. x.):

    "William Paulett, Marques of Wynchester and Highe Treasurer
    of Engelande, being presented by John Heywoode with a booke,
    asked hym what yt conteyned? and when Heywoode told him 'all
    the proverbs in Englishe.' 'What all?' quoth my Lorde; 'No,
    Bate me an ace, quoth Bolton, is that in youre booke?' 'No,
    by my faith, my Lorde, I thinke not,' annswered Heywoode."

The "booke" presented by Heywoode to the Marquis of Winchester was A Dialogue contayning in
Effect the Number of all the Proverbes in the English Tongue compact in a Matter concerning
two Marriages; first printed by Berthelet in 1546. In 1556 it was "Newly overseen and somewhat
augmented." A copy of the latter is in the British Museum.

John Bolton, from whom the proverb derives its origin, was one of Henry VIII.'s "diverting
vagabonds." He is several times mentioned as winning money from the king at cards and dice
in one of the Royal Household Books.

It is but right that I should give this information to your correspondent "T. Cr.", as I have
omitted to "note it" in my reprint of Hutton's curious tract.

Edward F. Rimbault.

Cardinal Beaton (Vol. ii., p. 433.).--In Smith's Iconographia Scotica is a portrait of Beaton
said to be painted by Vandyke, and evidently the one engraved in Lodge. It is accompanied by
a memoir, which would probably be of use to Scotus, as it contains references to a great number
of authorities used in its compilation. If Scotus has not met with this, and will send me his
address I will forward to him the leaves containing the life.

John I. Dredge.

Pateley Bridge.

Portrait of Cardinal Beaton (Vol. ii., p. 433.).--In No. 57. allusion is made to the portrait
of Cardinal Beaton, now at Blairs College, near Aberdeen. In Fyvie Castle, Aberdeenshire, where
one of the copies of this portrait, from the easel of James Giles, Esq., R.S.A., now is, there
are some manuscripts of Abbé Macpherson (who sent the Blairs picture to this country), purchased
at the sale of the late Mr. Chalmers, author of Caledonia. Among them there might possibly
be some which might tend to confirm the authenticity of the original painting.

S.P.

"He that runs may read" (Vol. ii., pp. 374. 439.).--It is idle to prolong this controversy.
I think it is no interpretation of part of ver. 2., chap. ii, Habakkuk. Nor do I believe that
it has any reference to it. But it is obviously a favourite poetic quotation, and your readers
will find it at line 80, in Cowper's Tirocinium, or A Review of Schools.

J.G.H.

Pimlico.

Sir George Downing (Vol. ii., p. 464.).--Particulars respecting the first Sir George Downing
may be found in Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses, ii. 27. 758, 759.; Wotton's English Baronetage, iv.
415.; Parliamentary History of England, xix. 411. 465. 499.; Continuation of the Life of Edward
Earl of Clarendon, royal 8vo. edit., 1116, 1117. 1165-1170, Burnet's History of his own Time,
ed. 1838, 136.; Heath's Chronicle, 2nd edit., 448. 528, 529, 530. 582.; Personal History of
Charles II. (at end of Bohn's edition of Grammont), 431.; Lister's Life of Clarendon, ii. 231-255.
268-271. 311-315. (Mr. Lister's third volume contains numerous letters to and from Sir George
Downing); Vaughan's Protectorate of Cromwell, i. 227. 255, 256. 264. 266. 268., ii. 299. 317.
433.; Courtenay's Memoirs of Sir W. Temple, i. 117. 264. 269.; Pepys's Diary; and Evelyn's Diary.

Wotton was not acquainted with the fact stated by your correspondent, that "the family is of
most ancient origin in Devonshire." Wotton states, and apparently on good authority, that the
first of the family of whom he had found mention, was Godfrey Downing, of the county of the
city of {498} Norwich, who had a son, Arthur Downing, of the county of Norfolk, whose son,
Calybut (the grandfather of the first Sir George), was of Shennington, in Gloucestershire.

Mr. Sims, in his Index to the Heralds' Visitations, refers to pedigrees and arms of the family
of Downing under Buckinghamshire, Essex, and Norfolk.

C.H. Cooper.

Cambridge, December 9. 1850.

Burning to Death, or Burning of the Hill (Vol. ii., p. 441.).--The following extract from Collinson's
Somerset, vol. iii. p. 374., where it is quoted from the Laws of the Miners of Mendip, 1687,
may throw some light upon the incidents referred to by J.W.H.:--

    "Among certain laws by which the miners were anciently
    regulated is the following, viz.:

    "'That if any man of that occupation do pick or steal any lead
    or ore to the value of thirteen pence halfpenny, the lord or
    his officer may arrest all his lead and ore, house and hearth,
    with all his goods, grooves, and works, and keep them as
    forfeit to his own use; and shall take the person that hath so
    offended, and bring him where his house and work, and all his
    tools and instruments belonging to the same occupation, are;
    and put him into his house or work, and set every thing on
    fire about him, and banish him from that occupation before all
    the miners for ever.'--Laws of the Miners of Mendip, 1687.

    "This is called Burning of the Hill."

It is to be hoped that any of the readers of "Notes and Queries" resident among this mining
population (who are said to retain many other ancient and remarkable customs), and possessing
any information in illustration of it, will record it in your columns.

William J. Thoms.

The Roscommon Peerage (Vol. ii., p. 469.).--My attention has been called to an article in No.
58. respecting the descendants of the first Earl of Roscommon.

As I am very interested in the subject, I beg An Hiberian, should this meet his eye, to allow
me to correspond with him.

He is quite right as to the old tombstone. When I was a boy, some five or six and forty years
ago, my father, one day as we were passing by the churchyard, mentioned that stone to me; but
as I had then several cousins living whose claims were prior to mine, the matter made but little
impression upon my mind.

My father was Thomas, the second son of Garrett, who was the son of Thomas, down to whom the
genealogy from the first Earl was traced upon the stone.

That stone and another, as I learn, were removed and destroyed, or concealed, many years ago,
doubtless through some interested motive; and, unfortunately, no copies of the inscriptions
have, that I can discover, been preserved by any branch of the family.

When the late Earl became a claimant, it was not known whether the descendants of Patrick,
my father's elder brother, who had all emigrated, were living or dead; which circumstance,
it was considered, would be an impediment to my claim.

Besides which it was also thought, the testimony on the stone having been lost, that the traditions
in the family would not be sufficient to establish a claim: under these circumstances I refrained
from coming forward to oppose the claims of the late Earl. But now, as it is believed that
there are none of my cousins living, I am endeavouring to collect evidence in support of my
claim; and proof of what your correspondent states would be exceedingly useful.

Garrett Dillon, M.D.

8. Queen's Parade, Bath.

The Word "after" in the Rubric (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--In the edition of the Latin Common Prayer,
published in 12mo., Londini, 1574, which must be a very early edition (probably the fourth
or fifth), there is a great verbal difference in the conclusion of the exhortation from the
English original. It stands thus:

    "Quapropter omnes vos qui præsentes hic adestis, per Dei nomen
    obtestor, ut interni sensus vestri, cum meo conjuncti pariter,
    ad cælestis clementiæ thronum subvolent, ut in hunc, qui
    sequitur, sermonem, succedatur."

Then follows the rubric, "Generalis confessio, ab universa congregatione dicenda, genibus flexis."
It would appear from this, that the confession was repented at the same time by the minister
and the congregation, and not by the congregation after the minister.

Of the authenticity of this edition there can be no doubt. It bears the royal arms on the titlepage,
and is printed "Cum privilegio Regiæ majestatis. Excudebat Thomas Vautrollerius." I have not
seen the earlier editions. A Greek version was printed with the Latin, in one volume, one year
before; and the Latin was republished in 1584. The edition of 1574 was printed before the Catechism
was completed by the questions on the sacraments. In the rubrics of the Lord's Prayer, in the
Post Communion, and in the last prayers the Commination Service, the word after is rendered
by post.

The difference between the Latin and the English in the exhortation is very remarkable, for
it does not make the priest dictate the confession, but repeat it with them; whereas the English
services of Edward and Elizabeth, unaltered in any subsequent editions, distinctly make the
priest dictate the confession. There can be no doubt about the sense of the word after, when
we find it in the rubrics of the Post Communion and Commination translated post. Some of your
readers may be able to give an account of the Latin versions, and explain by what influence
the alteration {499} was made, and how it came to be sanctioned, while the English remained
unchanged.

Enough has been written, perhaps, on the meaning of this passage; and opinion will always be
divided between those who adopt the prosaical, and those who prefer the more poetical reading:
but when Mr. Stephens says the construction is merely an instance of a "common ellipsis," I
cannot but think it would be an advantage if he would inform us whether he uses this term in
its common acceptation, and if so, if he would give the meaning stated at first. If this be
a common ellipsis, I must confess myself to be so stupid as not to understand it.

I dissent, too, altogether from the opinion that the comma is of any importance in the construction
of this passage. Assuming, as one correspondent says, and as Mr. Stephens (for I don't quite
understand his brief judgment) seems to say, that "most busie least" means least busy, the
placing a comma between "least" and the conjunction "when" can in no way affect the sense,
though, as a matter of taste, I should decidedly object to it.

To show that I am not wedded to any particular interpretation, I have another suggestion to
make which has struck me even while writing. Taking "lest" for least, can it have been used
for at least, or as some people say, leastwise? The sense would still be the same as I have
contended for, expressed something like this: "But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my
labours: at least they are most busy when I forget myself in my occupation."

Samuel Hickson.

Lady Compton's Letter (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--Mr. C.H. Cooper inquires whether this letter appeared
before 1839? Gifford gives an extract from it in Massinger's City Madam, Act II., where the
daughters of Sir John Frugal make somewhat similar stipulations from their suitors. When speaking
of this letter as "a modest and consolatory one," Gifford adds, "it is yet extant." The editor
of a work entitled Relics of Literature (1823) gives it at length, with this reference, "Harleian
MSS. 7003." The property of Lady Compton's father, Sir John Spencer, is stated variously from
300,000l. to 800,000l. In this case, riches brought with them their customary share of anxieties.
Lysons, in his Environs of London, informs us that a plot was actually laid for carrying off
the wealthy merchant from his house at Canonbury, by a pirate of Dunkirk, in the hope of obtaining
a large ransom.

J.H.M.

Midwives licensed (Vol. ii., p. 408.).--I have a manuscript volume which belonged to Bishop
Warburton, and apparently to other Bishops of Gloucester before him; containing, amongst other
Pontificalia, in writing of various ages, a number of forms of licences, among which occurs
"Licentia Obstetricis," whereby the bishop

    "eandem A.B. ad exercendam Artem et Officium Obstetricis in et
    per totam Diocesin Gloucestrensem prædietam admisit et Literas
    Testimoniales superiade fieri decrevit."

There is no mention of charms or incantations in the licence, but the oath "de jure in hac
parte requisito," is required to have been made. The form is of the same writing as several
others which bear dates from 1709 to 1719. Below is a memorandum of the fees, amounting to 17s. 6d.

Thomas Kerslake.

Bristol.

Echo Song (Vol. ii., p. 441.).--Although I cannot supply Llyd Rhys Morgan with the name of
the writer, I may refer him to D'Israeli's Curiosities of Literature, p. 257. (Moxon's edit.
1840), where he will find another Echo Song, by a certain Francis Cole, so similar to the one
he quotes as to induce me to think that they either come from the same pen, or that the one
is an imitation of the other.

Y.

The Irish Brigade (Vol. ii., pp. 407. 452.).--It is understood John C. O'Callaghan, Esq., author
of the Green Book, contemplated a much more copious work on the subject than that by the late
Matthew O'Connor, mentioned by your correspondent (p. 452.). The Union Quotidienne of 23rd
April last announced a work by M. de la Ponce, Essai sur l'Irlande Ancienne, et sur les Brigades
Irlandaises au Service de France, depuis leur Organisation en 1691; but whether published or
not I am not aware. Perhaps some of your correspondents may know.

Drumlethglas.

To save one's Bacon (Vol. ii., p. 424.).--May I venture to suggest that this phrase has reference
to the custom at Dunmow, in Essex, of giving a flitch of bacon to any married couple residing
in the parish, who live in harmony for a year and a day. A man and his wife who stopped short
when on the verge of a quarrel might be said to have "just saved their bacon;" and in course
of time the phrase would be applied to any one who barely escaped any loss or danger.

X.Z.

"The Times" Newspaper and the Coptic Language (Vol. ii., p. 377.).--J.E. quotes a passage from
The Times newspaper respecting the Coptic language, and asks if any correspondent can furnish
a clearer account of its structure than the writer of that article has given. A reference to
the work {500} which he was reviewing (Kenrick's Ancient Egypt under the Pharaohs) will show
the origin of the apparent inconsistency on which J.E. animadverts. In that work it is said
(vol. i. p. 100.):

    "The roots of the Coptic language appear to have been
    generally monosyllabic, and the derivatives have been formed
    by a very simple system of prefixing, inserting, and affixing
    certain letters, which have usually undergone but little
    change, not having been incorporated with the root, nor melted
    down by crasis, nor softened by any euphonic rules."

Again (vol. i. p. 107.), speaking of the supposed connexion between India and Egypt:

    "The Sanscrit is the most polished and copious language ever
    spoken by man; the Coptic, the most rude of all which were
    used by the civilised nations of antiquity."

The writer in The Times, currente calamo, has thrown the contents of these two sentences together,
and somewhat strengthened the expressions of his author, who does not call the Coptic system
of inflexion rude, nor assert that it is totally different from the Syro-Arabian system, but
quotes the opinion of Benfey, that they differ so much that neither can have originated from
the other, but both from a parent language. The distinction between a system of inflexion and
one of affixes and prefixes is not permanent. What we call the inflexions of the Greek verb
were once, no doubt, affixes; but while, in the Greek, they have become incorporated with the
root, in the Coptic they stand rigidly apart from it.

Herampion.

Luther's Hymns (Vol. ii., p. 327.).--A writer in the Parish Choir of September last (p. 140.)
has traced the words "In the midst of life we are in death" to a higher source than the Salisbury
Service-book. It occurs in the choir-book of the monks of St. Gall in Switzerland, and was
probably composed by Notker, surnamed the Stammerer, about the end of the ninth century, or
the beginning of the tenth.

C.H.

St. Catherine's Hall, Cambridge.

Osnaburg Bishopric (Vol. ii., pp. 358. 484.).--The occupiers of this bishopric were princes
ecclesiastical of the empire, and had not only the ordinary authority of bishops in their dioceses,
but were sovereigns of their provinces and towns in the same manner as were the princes temporal.

The bishopric of Osnaburg was founded by Charlemagne, and was filled by various princes until
1625, when Cardinal Francis William, Count of Wartemburg, was elected by the chapter.

By the Treaty of Osnaburg, 1642, which was ratified at the Peace of Westphalia, 1648, the House
of Brunswick resigned all claims to the archbishoprics of Magdeburg and Bremen, and to the
bishoprics of Halberstadt and Ratzburg; and received the alternate nomination of the bishopric
of Osnaburg, which was declared to belong jointly to the Catholic and the Protestant branch
of Brunswick.

Under this arrangement, on the death of Count Wartemburg in 1662, Ernest Augustus I., the sixtieth
bishop, patriarch of the present royal family of England, succeeded to the government of Osnaburg,
which he held for thirty-six years.

Ernest Augustus II, sixty-second bishop, Duke of Brunswick and Lunenburg, was made Duke of
York and Albany, and Bishop of Osnaburg, in 1716, in the room of Charles Joseph of Lorraine.
He died in 1748.

Frederick, second son of George III., was appointed bishop at an early age; he being called,
in a work dedicated to him in 1772, "An infant bishop."

By the Treaty of Vienna, the bishopric of Osnaburg was made part of the kingdom of Hanover.

The ancient territory of the Bishop of Osnaburg consisted of Osnaburg, Iborg, Forstenau, Bostel,
Quakenburg, Vorde Gronsburg, Hunteburg on the lake Dummer, Witlage, Melle, and Holte.

In Halliday's History of the House of Guelph, 4to., 1821, at p. 133., the conditions of the
Treaty of Osnaburg relative to the bishopric are given at length.

Whilst preparing the above I have seen the reply of F.E. at p. 447., and would beg to correct
the following errors:--

The Treaty of Osnaburg was 1642, not 1624.

