'No opinion,' said Julia, 'has been more strongly confirmed within me by this audience before
Aurelian, than this, that it has been of most auspicious influence upon our faith. Not that
some have not been filled with a bitterer spirit than before; but that more have been favorably
inclined toward us by the disclosures, Probus, which you made; and whether they become Christians
or not eventually, they will be far more ready to defend us in our claim for the common rights
of citizens. Marcellinus, who sat near me, was of this number. He expressed frequently, in
most emphatic terms, his surprise at what he heard, which, he said, he was constrained to admit
as true and fair statements, seeing they were supported and corroborated by my and your presence
and silence. At the close he declared his purpose to procure the gospels for his perusal.'

'And yet,' said I, 'the late consul Capitolinus, who was at my side, and whose clear and intelligent
mind is hardly equaled here in Rome, was confirmed--even as Porphyrius was, or pretended to
be--in all his previous unfavorable impressions. He did not disguise his opinion, but freely
said, that in his judgment the religion ought to be suppressed, and that, though he should
by no means defend any measures like those which he understood Aurelian had resolved to put
in force, he should advocate such action in regard to it, as could not fail to expel it from
the empire in no very great number of years.'

'I could observe,' added Probus, 'the same differences of feeling and judgment all over the
surface of that sea of faces. But if I should express my belief as to the proportion of friends
and enemies there present, I should not hesitate to say--and that I am sure without any imposition
upon my own credulity--that the greater part by far were upon our side--not in faith as you
may suppose--but in that good opinion of us, and of the tendencies of our doctrine and the
value of our services, that is very near it, and is better than the public profession of Christ
of many others.'

'It will be a long time, I am persuaded,' said Julia, 'before the truths received then into
many minds will cease to operate in our behalf. But what think you was the feeling of Aurelian?
His countenance was hidden from me--yet that would reveal not much. It is immovable at those
times, when he is deeply stirred, or has any motive to conceal his sentiments.'

'I cannot believe,' replied Probus, 'that any impression, such as we could wish, was made upon
that hard and cruel heart. Not the brazen statue, against the base of which he leaned, stood
in its place more dead to whatever it was that came from my lips than he. He has not been moved,
we may well believe, to change any of his designs. Whatever yesterday it was in his intent
to do, he will accomplish tomorrow. I do not believe we have anything to hope at his hands.'

'Alas, Lucius!' said Julia, 'that our faith in Christ, and our interest and concern for its
progress in Rome, should after all come to this. How happy was I in Syria, with this belief
as my bosom companion and friend; and free, too, to speak of it, to any and to all. How needless
is all the misery which this rude, unlettered tyrant is about to inflict! How happily for all,
would things take their course even here, might they but be left to run in those natural channels
which would reveal themselves, and which would then conduct to those ends which the Divine
Providence has proposed. But man wickedly interposes; and a misery is inflicted, which otherwise
would have never fallen upon us, and which in the counsels of God was never designed. What
now think you, Probus, will be the event?'

'I cannot doubt,' he replied, 'that tomorrow will witness all that report has already spread
abroad as the purpose of Aurelian. Urged on by both Fronto and Varus, he will not pause in
his course. Rome, ere the Ides, will swim in Christian blood. I see not whence deliverance
is to come. Miracle alone could save us; and miracle has long since ceased to be the order
of Providence. Having provided for us this immense instrument of moral reform in the authority
and doctrine of Christ, we are now left, as doubtless it is on the whole best for our character
and our virtues we should be, to our own unassisted strength, to combat with all the evils
that may assail us, both from without and within. For myself, I can meet this tempest without
a thought of reluctance or dread. I am a solitary man; having neither child nor relative to
mourn my loss; I have friends indeed, whom I love, and from whom I would not willingly part;
but, if any considerable purpose is to be gained by my death to that cause for which I have
lived, neither I nor they can lament that it should occur. Under these convictions as to my
own fate--and that of all, must I say and believe? no; I cannot, will not, believe that humanity
has taken its final departure from the bosom of Aurelian--I turn to one bright spot, and there
my thoughts dwell, and there my hopes gather strength, and that is here where you, Piso, and
you, lady, will still dwell, too high for the aim of the imperial murderer to reach. Here I
shall believe will there he an asylum for many a wearied spirit, a safe refuge from the sharp
pelting of the storm without. And when a calm shall come again, from beneath this roof, as
once from the ark of God, shall there go forth those who shall again people the waste-places
of the church, and change the wilderness of death into a fruitful garden full of the plants
of Heaven.'

'That it is the present purpose of Aurelian to spare me,' I answered, 'whatever provocation
I may give him, I fully believe. He is true; and his word to that end, with no wish expressed
on my part, has been given. But do not suppose that in that direction at least he may not change
his purpose. Superstitiously mad as he now is, a mere plaything too in the bloody hands of
Fronto--and nothing can well be esteemed as more insecure than even my life, privileged and
secure as it may seem. If it should occur to him, in his day or his night visions and dreams,
that I, more than others, should be an acceptable offering to his god, my life would be to
him but that of an insect buzzing around his ear; and being dead by a blow, he would miss me
no more. Still, let the mercy that is vouchsafed, whether great or little, be gratefully confessed.'

You then see, Fausta, the position in which your old friends now stand here in Rome. Who could
have believed, when we talked over our dangers in Palmyra, that greater and more dreadful still
awaited us in our own home. It has come upon us with such suddenness that we can scarce believe
it ourselves. Yet are we prepared, with an even mind and a trusting faith, for whatever may betide.

It is happy for me, and for Julia, that our religion has fixed within us so firm a belief in
a superintending Providence--who orders not only the greatest but the least events of life,
who is as much concerned for the happiness and the moral welfare of the humblest individual,
as he is for the orderly movement of a world--that we sit down under the shadows that overhang
us, perfectly convinced that some end of good to the church or the world is to be achieved
through these convulsions, greater than could have been achieved in any other way. The Supreme
Ruler, we believe, is infinitely wise and infinitely good. But he would be neither, if unnecessary
suffering were meted out to his creatures. This suffering then is not unnecessary. But through
it, in ways which our sight now is not piercing enough to discern--but may hereafter be--shall
a blessing redound both to the individuals concerned, to the present generation, and a remote
posterity, which could not otherwise have been secured. This we must believe; or we must renounce
all belief.

Forget not to remember us with affection to Gracchus and Calpurnius.

       *       *       *       *       *

I also was present at the hearing of Probus. But of that I need say nothing; Piso having so
fully written concerning it to the daughter of Gracchus.

Early on the following day I was at the Gardens of Sallust, where I was present both with the
Emperor and Livia, and with the Emperor and Fronto, and heard conversations which I here record.

When I entered the apartment, in which it was customary for the Empress to sit at this time
of the day, I found her there engaged upon her embroidery, while the Emperor paced back and
forth, his arms crossed behind him, and care and anxiety marked upon his countenance. Livia,
though she sat quietly at her work, seemed ill at ease, and as if some thought were busy within,
to which she would gladly give utterance. She was evidently relieved by my entrance, and immediately
made her usual inquiries after the health of the Queen, in which Aurelian joined her.

Aurelian then turned to me and said,

'I saw you yesterday at the Palatine, Nicomachus; what thought you of the Christian's defence?'

'It did not convert me to his faith--'

'Neither, by the gods! did it me,' quickly interrupted Aurelian.

'But,' I went on, 'it seemed to show good cause why they should not be harshly or cruelly dealt
with. He proved them to be a harmless people, if not positively profitable to the state.'

'I do not see that,' replied the Emperor. 'It is impossible they should be harmless who sap
the foundations of religion; it is impossible they should be profitable who seduce from their
allegiance the good subjects of the empire; and this religion of the Christians does both.'

'I agree that it is so,' I rejoined, 'if it is to be assumed in the controversy that the prevailing
religion of the Romans is a perfect one, and that any addition or alteration is necessarily
an evil. That seems to be the position of Porphyrius and others. But to that I can by no means
assent. It seems to me that the religions of mankind are susceptible of improvement as governments
are, and other like institutions; that what may be perfectly well suited to a nation in one
stage of its growth, may be very ill adapted to another; that the gods in their providence
accordingly design that one form of religious worship and belief should in successive ages
be superseded by others, which shall be more exactly suited to their larger growth, and more
urgent and very different necessities. The religion of the early days of Rome was perhaps all
that so rude a people were capable of comprehending--all that they wanted. It worked well for
them, and you have reason for gratitude that it was bestowed upon them, and has conferred so
great benefits upon the preceding centuries. But the light of the sun is not clearer than it
is that, for this present passing age, that religion is stark naught.'

The Emperor frowned, and stood still in his walk, looking sternly upon me; but I heeded him not.

'Most, of any intelligence and reflection,' I continued, 'spurn it away from them as fit but
for children and slaves. Must they then be without any principle of this kind? Is it safe for
a community to grow up without faith in a superintending power, from whom they come, to whom
they are responsible? I think not. In any such community--and Rome is becoming such a one--the
elements of disruption, anarchy, and ruin, are there at work, and will overthrow it. A society
of atheists is a contradiction in terms. Atheists may live alone, but not together. Will you
compel your subjects to become such? If a part remain true to the ancient faith, and find it
to be sufficient, will you deny to the other part the faith which they crave, and which would
be sufficient for them? I doubt if that were according to the dictates of wisdom and philosophy.
And how know you, Aurelian, that this religion of Christ may not be the very principle which,
and which alone, may save your people from atheism, and your empire from the ruin that would
bring along in its train?'

'I cannot deny,' said the Emperor in reply, 'that there is some sense and apparent truth in
what you have said. But to me it is shadowy and intangible. It is the speculation of that curious
class among men, who, never satisfied with what exists, are always desiring some new forms
of truth, in religion, in government, and all subjects of that nature. I could feel no more
certain of going or doing right by conforming to their theories, than I feel now in adhering
to what is already established. Nay, I can see safety nowhere but in what already is. There
is the only certainty. Suppose some enthusiast in matters of government were to propose his
system, by which the present established institutions were all to be abandoned and new ones
set up, should I permit him to go freely among the people, puzzling their heads with what it
is impossible they should understand, and by his sophistries alienating them from their venerable
parent? Not so, by Hercules! I should ill deserve my office of supreme guardian of the honor
and liberties of Rome, did I not mew him up in the Fabrician dungeons, or send him lower still
to the Stygian shades.'

'But,' said Livia, who had seemed anxious to speak, 'though it may be right, and best for the
interests of Rome, to suppress this new worship, yet why, Aurelian, need it be done at such
expense of life? Can no way be devised by which the professors of this faith shall be banished,
for instance, the realm, and no new teachers of it permitted to enter it afterward but at the
risk of life, or some other appointed penalty? Sure I am, from what I heard from the Christian
Probus, and what I have heard so often from the lips of Julia, this people cannot be the sore
in the body of the state which Fronto represents them.'

'I cannot, Livia,' replied the Emperor, 'refuse to obey what to me have been warnings from
the gods.'

'But may not the heavenly signs have been read amiss?' rejoined Livia.

'There is no truth in augury, if my duty be not where I have placed it,' answered Aurelian.

'And perhaps, Aurelian,' said the Empress, 'there is none. I have heard that the priests of
the temples play many a trick upon their devout worshippers.'

'Livia, it has doubtless been so; but you would not believe that Fronto has trifled with Aurelian?'

'I believe Fronto capable of any crime by which the gods may be served. Have you not heard,
Aurelian what fell from the dying Christian's lips?'

'I have, Livia; and have cast it from me as at best the coinage of a moonstruck mountebank.
Shall the word of such a one as Macer the Christian, unseat my trust in such a one as Fronto?
That were not reasonable, Livia.'

'Then, Aurelian, if not for any reason that I can give, for the love you bear me, withhold
your hand from this innocent people. You have often asked me to crave somewhat which it would
be hard for you to grant, that you might show how near you hold me. Grant me this favor, and
it shall be more to me than if you gave me the one half the empire.'

The Emperor's stern countenance relaxed, and wore for a moment that softened expression, accompanied
by a smile, that on his face might be termed beautiful. He was moved by the unaffected warmth
and winning grace with which those words were spoken by Livia. But he only said,

'I love thee, Livia, as thou knowest,--but not so well as Rome or the gods.'

'I would not, Aurelian,' replied the Empress, 'that love of me should draw you away from what
you owe to Rome--from what is the clear path of a monarch's duty; but this seems at best a
doubtful case. They who are equally Roman in their blood differ here. It is not wrong to ask
you, for my sake, to lean to the side of mercy.'

'You are never wrong, Livia. And were it only right to--'

'But are you not, Aurelian, always sure of being right in being merciful? Can it ever afterward
repent you that you drew back from the shedding of blood?'

'It is called mercy, Livia, when he who has the power spares the culprit, forgives the offence,
and sends him from the gibbet or the cross back to his weeping friends. The crowds throw up
their caps and shout as for some great and good deliverance. But the mercy that returns upon
the world a villain, whose crimes had richly earned for him his death, is hardly a doubtful
virtue. Though, as is well known, I am not famed for mercy, yet were it clear to me what in
this case were the truest mercy--for the pleasure, Livia, of pleasuring thee, I would be merciful.
But I should not agree with thee in what is mercy. It were no mercy to Rome, as I judge, to
spare these Christians, whatever the grace might be to them. Punishment is often mercy. In
destroying these wretches I am merciful both to Rome and to the world, and shall look to have
their thanks.'

'There comes, Aurelian.' said Livia, rising, 'thy evil genius--thy ill-possessing demon--who
has so changed the kindly current of thy blood. I would that he, who so loves the gods, were
with them. I cannot wait him.'

With these words Livia rose and left the apartment, just as Fronto entered in another direction.

'Welcome, Fronto!' said Aurelian. 'How thrive our affairs?'

'As we could wish, great Emperor. The city with us, and the gods with us,--we cannot but prosper.
A few days will see great changes.'

'How turns out the tale of Curio? What find you to be the truth? Are the Christians here, or
are they fled?'

'His tale was partly false and partly true. More are fled than Piso or the Christians will
allow; but doubtless the greater part, by large odds, remain.'

'That is well. Then for the other side of this great duty. Is thine own house purged? Is the
temple, new and of milk-white marble, now as clean and white in its priesthood? Have those
young sots and pimps yet atoned for their foul impieties?'

'They have,' replied Fronto. 'They have been dealt with; and their carcases swinging and bleaching
in the wind will long serve I trust to keep us sweet. The temple, I now may believe, is thoroughly
swept.'

'And how is it, Fronto, with the rest?'

'The work goes on. Your messengers are abroad; and it will be neither for want of power, will,
nor zeal, if from this time Hellenism stands not before the world as beautiful in her purity
as she is venerable in years and truth.'

'The gods be praised that I have been stirred up to this! When this double duty shall be done,
Hellenism reformed, and her enemy extinct, then may I say that life has not been spent for
naught. But meanwhile, Fronto, the army needs me. All is prepared, and letters urge me on.
To-morrow I would start for Thrace. Yet it cannot be so soon.'

'No,' said the priest. 'Rome will need you more than Thrace, till the edicts have been published,
and the work well begun. Then, Aurelian, may it be safely entrusted, so far as zeal and industry
shall serve, to those behind.'

'I believe it, Fronto. I see myself doubly reflected in thee: and almost so in Varus. The Christians,
were I gone, would have four Aurelians for one. Well, let us rejoice that piety is not dead.
The sacrifice this morning was propitious. I feel its power in every thought and movement.'

'But while all things else seem propitious, Aurelian, one keeps yet a dark and threatening aspect.'

'What mean you?'

'Piso!--'

'Fronto, I have in that made known my will, and more than once. Why again dispute it?'

'I know no will, great Cæsar, that may rightly cross or surmount that of the gods. They, to
me, are supreme, not Aurelian.'

Aurelian moved from the priest, and paced the room.

'I see not, Fronto, with such plainness the will of Heaven in this.'

''Tis hard to see the divine will, when the human will and human affections are so strong.'

'My aim is to please the gods in all things,' replied the Emperor.

'Love too, Aurelian, blinds the eye, and softening the heart toward our fellow, hardens it
toward the gods.' This he uttered with a strange significancy.

'I think, Fronto, mine has been all too hard toward man, if it were truly charged. At least,
of late, the gods can have no ground of blame.'

'Rome,' replied the priest, 'is not slow to see and praise the zeal that is now crowning her
seven hills with a greater glory than ever yet has rested on them. Let her see that her great
son can finish what has been so well begun.'

'Fronto, I say it, but I say it with some inward pain, that were it plain the will of the gods
were so--'

'Piso should die!' eagerly interrupted the priest.

'I will not say it yet, Fronto.'

'I see not why Aurelian should stagger at it. If the will of the gods is in this whole enterprise;
if they will that these hundreds and thousands, these crowds of young and old, little children
and tender youth, should all perish, that posterity by such sacrifice now in the beginning
may be delivered from the curse that were else entailed upon them, then who can doubt, to whom
truth is the chief thing, that they will, nay, and ordain in their sacred breasts, that he
who is their chief and head, about whom others cluster, from whose station and power they daily
draw fresh supplies of courage, should perish too; nay, that he should be the first great offering,
that so, the multitudes who stay their weak faith on him, may, on his loss, turn again unharmed
to their ancient faith. That too, were the truest mercy.'

'There may be something in that, Fronto. Nevertheless, I do not yet see so much to rest upon
one life. If all the rest were dead, and but one alive, and he Piso, I see not but the work
were done.'

'A thousand were better left, Aurelian, than Piso and the lady Julia! They are more in the
ears and eyes of Rome than all the preachers of this accursed tribe. They are preaching, not
on their holydays to a mob of beggarly knaves, men and women dragged up by their hot and zealous
caterers from the lanes and kennels of the city, within the walls of their filthy synagogues,
but they preach every day, to the very princes and nobles of the state--at the capitol to the
Senate--here in thy palaces to all the greatest and best of Rome and, by the gods! as I believe,
make more converts to their impieties than all the army of their atheistical priesthood. Upon
Probus, Piso, and Julia, hang the Christians of Rome. Hew them away, end the branches die.
Probus, ere tomorrow's sun is set, feeds the beasts of the Flavian--then--'

'Hold, Fronto! I will no more of it now. I have, besides, assured Piso of his safety.'

'There is no virtue like that of those, who, having erred, repent.'

Aurelian looked for the moment as if he would willingly have hurled Fronto, and his temple
after him, to Tartarus. But the bold man heeded him not.

'Shall I,' he continued, 'say what it is that thus ties the hands of the conqueror of the world?'

'Say what thou wilt.'

'Rome says, I say it not--but Rome says, 'tis love.'

'What mean they? I take you not. Love?'

'Of the princess Julia, still so called.'

A deep blush burned upon the cheek of Aurelian. He paused a moment, as if for some storm within
to subside. He then said, in his deep tone, that indicates the presence of the whole soul--but
without passion--

'Fronto, 'tis partly true--truer than I wish it were. When in Syria my eye first beheld her,
I loved her--as I never loved before, and never shall again. But not for the Emperor of the
world would she part from young Piso. I sued, as man never sued before, but all in vain. Her
image still haunts the chambers of my brain; yet, with truth do I say it, but as some pure
vision sent from the gods. I confess, Fronto, it is she who stands between me and the will
of Heaven. I know not what force, but that of all the gods, could make me harm her. To no other
ear has this ever been revealed. She is to me god and goddess.'

'Now, Aurelian, that thou has spoken in the fullness of thy heart, do I hold thee redeemed
from the invisible tyrant. In our own hearts we sin and err, as we dare not when the covering
is off, and others can look in and see how weak we are. Thou canst not, great Cæsar, for this
fondness forget and put far from thee the vision of thy mother, whom, in dreams or in substantial
shape, the gods sent down to revive thy fainting zeal! Let it not be that that call shall have
been in vain.'

'Fronto, urge now no more. Hast thou seen Varus?'

'I have.'

'Are the edicts ready?'

'They are.'

'Again then at the hour of noon let them glare forth upon the enemies of Rome from the columns
of the capitol. Let Varus be so instructed. Now I would be alone.'

Whereupon the priest withdrew, and I also rose from where I had sat, to take my leave, when
the Emperor said,

'This seems harsh to thee, Nicomachus?'

'I cannot but pray the gods,' I said, 'to change the mind of Aurelian!'

'They have made his mind what it is, Nicomachus.'

'Not they,' I said, 'but Fronto.'

'But,' he quickly added, 'the gods made Fronto, and have put their mind in him, or it has never
been known on earth. You know not the worth, Greek, of this man. Had Rome possessed such a
one two hundred years ago, this work had not now to be done.'

Saying which, he withdrew into his inner apartment, and I sought again the presence of Livia.

LETTER XI.

FROM PISO TO FAUSTA.

A day has passed, Fausta, since the hearing of Probus, and I hasten to inform you of its events.

But, first of all, before I enter upon the dark chapter of our calamities, let me cheer you
and myself by dwelling a moment upon one bright and sunny spot. Early in the day we were informed
that Isaac was desirous to see us. He was at once admitted. As he entered, it was easy to see
that some great good fortune had befallen him. His face shone through the effect of some inward
joy, and his eyes sparkled in their deep sockets like burning tapers. When our customary salutations
and inquiries were over, Julia said to him,

'I think, Isaac, you must have sold a jewel this morning to no less a person than Aurelian,
if the face may be held as an index of good or evil fortune.'

'I have parted with no jewel, lady,' he replied, 'but there has fallen into my hands a diamond
of inestimable value, drawn from those mines of the Orient, which I may say, not all the wealth
of Aurelian could purchase of me. Whenever I shall receive such permission, it will give me
highest delight to show it to thee.'

'Only a single jewel, Isaac?' said Julia. 'Is it but one stone that so transports thee, and
makes thy face that of a young man?'

'Lady, to confess the truth, there are four--four living stories and precious--more precious
than any that of old blazed upon the breastplate of our high-priest Princess, I have come to
tell thee and Piso what none in Rome besides, as I think, would care to know--and strange it
is that you Christians should be those whom I, a Jew, most love, and that I, an old and worn-out
man, should fill any space, were it no bigger than a grain of wheat, in your regards--I have
come to tell you what you have already discovered, that Hagar is arrived with the young Ishmael,
and with them two dark-eyed daughters of Israel, who are as welcome as the others. There is
not now, Piso, within the walls of Rome a dwelling happier than mine. Soon as leisure and inclination
shall serve, come, if you will do us such grace, to the street Janus, and behold our contentment.
Sorry am I that the times come laden to you with so many terrors. Piso,' continued he, in a
more earnest tone, and bending toward me, 'rely upon the word of one who is rarely deceived,
and who now tells thee, there is a sword hanging over thy head! Fronto thirsts for thy life,
and thine, lady! and Aurelian, much as he may love you, is, as we have already seen, not proof
against the violent zeal of the priest. Come to the street Janus, and I will warrant you safety
and life. There is none for you here--nor in Rome--if Aurelian's hounds can scent you.'

We were again obliged to state, with all the force we could give to them, the reasons which
bound us to remain, not only in Rome, but in our own dwelling, and await whatever the times
might bring forth. He was again slow to be convinced, so earnestly does he desire our safety.
But at length he was persuaded that he himself would take the same course were he called upon
to defend the religion of his fathers. He then departed, having first exacted a promise that
we would soon see his new family.

Soon as Isaac was gone I sought the streets.

Rome, Fausta, has put on the appearance of the Saturnalia. Although no license of destruction
has yet been publicly given, the whole city is in commotion--the lower orders noisy and turbulent,
as if they had already received their commission of death. Efforts have been made, both on
the part of the senate and that of the nobles who are not of that body, joined by many of all
classes, to arrest the Emperor in his murderous career, but in vain. Not the Seven Hills are
more firmly rooted in the earth, than he in his purposes of blood. This is well known abroad;
and the people are the more emboldened in the course they take. They know well that Aurelian
is supreme and omnipotent; that no power in Rome can come in between him and his object, whatever
it may be; and that they, therefore, though they should err through their haste, and in their
zeal even go before the edicts, would find in him a lenient judge. No Christian was accordingly
to be now seen in the streets--for nowhere were they safe from the ferocious language, or even
the violent assaults, of the mob. These cruel executioners I found all along, wherever I moved,
standing about in groups as if impatiently awaiting the hour of noon, or else gathered about
the dwellings of well-known Christians, assailing the buildings with stones, and the ears of
their pent-up inhabitants with all that variety of imprecation they so well know how to use.
It was almost with sensations of guilt that I walked the streets of Rome in safety, bearing
a sort of charmed life, while these thousands of my friends were already suffering more through
their horrible anticipation, than they would when they should come to endure the reality. But,
although I passed along uninjured by actual assault, the tongue was freely let loose upon me,
and promises were abundantly lavished that, before many days were gone, not even the name of
Piso, nor the favor of Aurelian, should save me from the common doom.

As the hour of noon drew nigh, it seemed as if the entire population of Rome was pouring itself
into the streets and avenues leading to the capitol. Not the triumph of Aurelian itself filled
this people with a more absorbing, and, as it appeared, a more pleasing interest, than did
the approaching calamities of the Christians. Expectation was written on every face. Even the
boys threw up their caps as in anticipation of somewhat that was to add greatly to their happiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sixth hour has come and is gone. The edicts are published, and the Christians are now declared
enemies of the state and of the gods, and are required to be informed against by all good citizens,
and arraigned before the Prefect and the other magistrates especially appointed for the purpose.

       *       *       *       *       *

All is now confusion, uproar, and cruel violence.

       *       *       *       *       *

No sooner was the purport of the edicts ascertained by the multitudes who on this occasion,
as before, thronged the capitol, than they scattered in pursuit of their victims. The priests
of the temples heading the furious crowds, they hastened from the hill in every direction,
assailing, as they reached them, the houses of the Christians, and dragging the wretched inhabitants
to the presence of their barbarous judges. Although in the present edicts the people are not
let loose as authorized murderers upon the Christians, they are nevertheless exhorted and required
to inform against them and bring them before the proper tribunals on the charge of Christianity,
so that there is lodged in their hands a fearful power to harrass and injure--a power which
is used as you may suppose Romans would use it. Every species of violence has this day been
put in practice upon this innocent people; their perpetrators feeling sure that, in the confusion,
deeds at which even Varus or Aurelian might take offence will be overlooked. The tribunals
have been thronged from noon till night with Christians and their accusers. As the examination
of those who have been brought up has rarely occupied but a few moments, the evidence always
being sufficiently full to prove them Christians, and, when that has been wanting, their own
ready confession supplying the defect--the prisons are already filling with their unhappy tenants,
and extensive provisions are making to receive them in other buildings set apart for the time
to this office. A needless provision. For it requires but little knowledge of Aurelian to know
that his impatient temper will not long endure the tedious process of a regular accusation,
trial, condemnation, and punishment. A year, in that case, would scarce suffice to make way
with the Christians of Rome. Long before the prisons can be emptied in a legal way of the tenants
already crowding them, will the Emperor resort to the speedier method of a general and indiscriminate
massacre. No one can doubt this, who is familiar as I am with Aurelian, and the spirits who
now rule him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let me tell you now of the fate of Probus.

He was seated within his own quiet home at the time the edicts were proclaimed from the steps
of the capitol. The moment the herald who proclaimed them had pronounced the last word, and
was affixing them to the column, the name of Probus was heard shouted from one side of the
hill to the other, and, while the multitude scattered in every direction in pursuit of those
who were known to them severally as Christians, a large division of it made on the instant
for his dwelling. On arriving there, roused by the noise of the approaching throng, Probus
came forth. He was saluted by cries and yells, that seemed rather to proceed from troops of
wild beasts than men. He would fain have spoken to them, but no word would they hear. 'Away
with the Christian dog to the Prefect!' arose in one deafening shout from the people; and on
the instant he was seized and bound, and led unresisting away to the tribunal of Varus.

As he was dragged violently along, and was now passing the door which leads to the room where
Varus sits, Felix, the bishop, having already stood before the Prefect, was leaving the hall,
urged along by soldiers who were bearing him to prison.

'Be of good cheer, Probus!' exclaimed he; 'a crown awaits thee within. Rome needs thy life,
and Christ thy soul.'

'Peace, dotard!' cried one of those who guarded and led him; and at the same moment brought
his spear with such force upon his head that he felled him to the pavement.

