There is Greek
in this text which has been transliterated into Arabic  | |letters.                       
| +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

Explanation of Frontispiece

The picture is reproduced from Baumeister's Denkmäler des klassichen Alterthums, volume I.,
figure 730 (text on p. 663). It is on a vase and describes one of the twelve heroic deeds of
Herakles. The latter, holding aloft his club, drags two-headed Cerberus out of Hades by a chain
drawn through the jaw of one of his heads. He is just about to pass Cerberus through a portal
indicated by an Ionic pillar. To the right Persephone, stepping out of her palace, seems to
forbid the rape. Herakles in his turn seems to threaten the goddess, while Hermes, to the left,
holds a protecting or restraining arm over him. Athene, with averted face, ready to depart
with her protégé, stands in front of four horses hitched to her chariot. Upon her shield the
eagle augurs the success of the entire undertaking.

  CERBERUS,

  THE DOG OF HADES

  The History of an Idea

  BY

  MAURICE BLOOMFIELD
  Professor of Sanskrit and Comparative Philology
  Johns Hopkins University

  CHICAGO
  The Open Court Publishing Company

  LONDON
  KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRÜBNER & CO., LTD
  1905

  COPYRIGHT 1905
  BY
  THE OPEN COURT PUBLISHING CO.
  CHICAGO

  To the Memory
       of
  F. Max Müller

CERBERUS, THE DOG OF HADES

Hermes, the guide of the dead, brings to Pluto's kingdom their psyches, "that gibber like bats,
as they fare down the dank ways, past the streams of Okeanos, past the gates of the sun and
the land of dreams, to the meadow of asphodel in the dark realm of Hades, where dwell the souls,
the phantoms of men outworn." So begins the twenty-fourth book of the Odyssey. Later poets
have Charon, a grim boatsman, receive the dead at the River of Woe; he ferries them across,
provided the passage money has been placed in their mouths, and their bodies have been duly
buried in the world above. Otherwise they are left to gibber on the hither bank. Pluto's house,
wide-gated, thronged with guests, has a janitor Kerberos, sometimes friendly, sometimes snarling
when new guests arrive, but always hostile to those who would depart. Honey cakes are provided
for them that are about to go to Hades--the sop to Cerberus. This dog, nameless and undescribed,
Homer mentions simply as the dog of Hades, whom Herakles, as the last and chief test of his
strength, snatched from the horrible house of Hades.[1] First Hesiod and next Stesichorus discover
his name to be Kerberos. The latter seems to have composed a poem on the dog. Hesiod[2] mentions
not only the name but also the genealogy of Kerberos. Of Typhaon and Echidna he was born, the
irresistible and ineffable flesh-devourer, the voracious, brazen-voiced, fifty-headed dog of hell.

Plato in the Republic refers to the composite nature of Kerberos.[3] Not until Apollodorus
(2. 5. 12. 1. ff.), in the second century B. C., comes the familiar description: Kerberos now
has three dog heads, a dragon tail, and his back is covered with the heads of serpents. But
his plural heads must have been familiarly assumed by the Greeks; this will appear from the
evidence of their sculptures and vase-paintings.

CERBERUS IN CLASSIC ART.

Classic art has taken up Cerberus very generously; his treatment, however, is far from being
as definite as that of the Greek and Roman poets. Statues, sarcophagi, and vase paintings whose
theme is Hades, or scenes laid in Hades, represent him as a ferocious Greek collie, often encircled
with serpents, and with a serpent for a tail, but there is no certainty as to the number of
his heads. Often he is three-headed in art as in literature, as may be seen conveniently in
the reproductions in Baumeister's Denkmäler des Klassischen Altertums. Very familiar is the
statue in the villa Borghese of Pluto enthroned, three-headed Cerberus by his side.[4] A Greek
scarabæus shows a pair of lovers, or a married couple, who have died at the same time, crossing
in Charon's ferry. As they are approaching the other bank of the Styx, where a three-headed
Cerberus is awaiting them, the girl seems afright and is upheld by her male companion.[5] On
the other hand, a bronze in Naples shows the smiling boy Herakles engaged in strangling two
serpents, one with each hand. The figure rests on a cylindrical base upon which are depicted
eight of the wonderful deeds which Herakles performs later on. By a rope he leads a two-headed
Cerberus from Hades.[6]

This last of the wonderful deeds of Herakles is a favorite theme of vase pictures. Herakles
is regularly accompanied by Hermes and Athena; the dog, whose marvelous shape Homer fails to
reveal, is generally two-headed. Such a vase may be seen in Gerhard, Auserlesene Vasenbilder,
ii. 131.[7] Or still more conveniently, Professor Norton has reproduced[8] an amphora in the
Louvre with a picture of the dicephalous Kerberos. Upon the forehead of each of the two heads
rises a serpent. Herakles in tunic and lion's skin, armed with bow, quiver, and sword, stoops
towards the dog. He holds a chain in his left hand, while he stretches out his right with a
petting gesture. Between the two is a tree, against which leans the club of Herakles. Behind
him stands Athena.

CERBERUS IN ROMAN AND MODERN LITERATURE.

Neither Greek literature, nor Greek art, however, really seems to fix either the shape or nature
of Kerberos; it was left to the Roman poets to say the last word about him. They finally settle
the number of his heads, or the number of his bodies fused in one. He is triceps "three-headed,"
triplex or tergeminus "threefold," triformis "of three bodies," or simply Tricerberus. Tibullus
says explicitly that he has both three heads and three tongues: cui tres sint linguæ tergeminumque
caput. Virgil, in the Æneid, vi. 417, has huge Cerberus barking with triple jaws; his neck
bristles with serpents. Ovid in his Metamorphoses, x. 21, makes Orpheus, looking for dear Eurydice
in Tartarus, declare that he did not go down in order that he might chain the three necks,
shaggy with serpents, of the monster begotten of Medusa. His business also is settled for all
time; he is the terrible, fearless, and watchful janitor, or guardian (janitor or custos) of
Orcus, the Styx, Lethe, or the black Kingdom.[9] And so he remains for modern poets, as when
Dante, reproducing Virgil, describes him:[10]

  "When Cerberus, that great worm, had seen us
  His mouth he opened and his fangs were shown,
  And then my leader with his folded palms
  Took of the earth, and filling full his hand,
  Into those hungry gullets flung it down."

Or Shakespeare, Love's Labor Lost, v. ii: "Great Hercules is presented by this imp whose club
killed Cerberus, the three-headed canis."

CLASSICAL EXPLANATIONS OF CERBERUS.

Such classical explanations of Cerberus' shape as I have seen are feeble and foolishly reasonable.
Heraclitus, [Greek: Peri apistôn] 331, states that Kerberos had two pups. They always attended
their father, and therefore he appeared to be three-headed. The mythographer Palaephatos(39)
states that Kerberos was considered three-headed from his name [Greek: Trikarênos] which he
obtained from the city Trikarenos in Phliasia. And a late Roman rationalistic mythographer
by the name of Fulgentius[11] tells us that Petronius defined Cerberus as the lawyer of Hades,
apparently because of his three jaws, or the cumulative glibness of three tongues. Fulgentius
himself has a fabula in which he says that Cerberus means Creaboros, that is, "flesh-eating,"
and that the three heads of Cerberus are respectively, infancy, youth, and old age, through
which death has entered the circle of the earth--per quas introivit mors in orbem terrarum.[12]

A MODERN VIEW.

  "Lasciate ogni speranza voi ch' entrate"

Can we bid this "schwankende Gestalt," this monstrous vision, floating about upon the filmy
photographs of murky Hades, stand still, emerge into light, and assume clear and reasonable
outlines?

  "Hence loathed melancholy of Cerberus and blackest Midnight born."

An American humorist, John Kendrick Bangs, who likes to place his skits in Hades, steps in
"where angels fear to tread," and launches with a light heart the discussion as to whether
Cerberus is one or more dogs. The city of Cimmeria in Hades, having tried asphalt pavement,
which was found too sloppy for that climate, and Nicholson wood pavement, which kept taking
fire, decides on Belgian blocks. In order to meet the new expense a dog-tax is imposed. Since
Cerberus belongs to Hades as a whole, the state must pay his tax, and is willing enough to
do so--on Cerberus as one dog. The city, however, endeavors to collect on three dogs--one license
for each head. Two infernal coppers, sent to impound Cerberus, fare not well, one of them being
badly chewed up by Cerberus, the other nabbed bodily and thrown into the Styx. In consequence
of this they obtain damages from the city. The city then decides to bring suit against the
state. The bench consists of Apollyon himself and Judge Blackstone; Coke appears for the city,
Catiline for the state. The first dog-catcher, called to testify, and asked whether he is familiar
with dogs, replies in the affirmative, adding that he had never got quite so intimate with
one as he got with him.

"With whom?" asks Coke.

"Cerberus," replies the witness.

"Do you consider him to be one dog, two dogs, or three dogs?"

Catiline objects to this question as a leading one, but Coke manages to get it in under another
form: "How many dogs did you see when you saw Cerberus?"

"Three, anyhow," replies the witness with feeling, "though afterwards I thought there was a
whole bench-show atop of me."

On cross-examination Catiline asks him blandly: "My poor friend, if you considered Cerberus
to be three dogs anyhow, why did you in your examination a moment since refer to the avalanche
of caninity, of which you so affectingly speak, as him?"

"He is a him," sturdily says the witness. After this Coke, discomfited, decides to call his
second witness: "What is your business?" asks Coke, after the usual preliminaries.

"I'm out of business. Livin' on my damages."

"What damages?"

"Them I got from the city for injuries did me by that there--I should say them there--dorgs,
Cerberus."

And so on. Catiline gains the day for the state by his superior logic; the city of Cimmeria
must content itself with taxes on a single dog. But the logic of the facts, it will appear,
are with the dog-catchers, Judge Coke, and the city of Cimmeria as against the state of Hades:
Cerberus is more than one dog.

FUTURE LIFE IN THE VEDA.

India is the home of the Cerberus myth in its clearest and fullest development. In order to
appreciate its nature we must bear in mind that the early Hindu conceptions of a future life
are auspicious, and quite the reverse of sombre. The statements in the Veda about life after
death exclude all notions of hell. The early visions are simple, poetic and cheerful. The bodies
of the dead are burned and their ashes are consigned to earth. But this is viewed merely as
a symbolic act of preparation--cooking it is called forthright--for another life of joy. The
righteous forefathers of old who died before, they have found another good place. Especially
Yama, the first mortal, has gone to the great rivers on high; he has searched out, like a pioneer,
the way for all his descendants: "He went before and found a dwelling which no power can debar
us from. Our fathers of old have traveled the path; it leads every earth-born mortal thither.
There in the midst of the highest heaven beams unfading light and eternal waters flow; there
every wish is fulfilled on the rich meadows of Yama." Day by day Yama sends forth two dogs,
his messengers, to search out among men those who are to join the fathers that are having an
excellent time in Yama's company.

THE TWO DOGS OF YAMA.

The tenth book of the Rig-Veda contains in hymns 14-18 a collection of funeral stanzas quite
unrivaled for mythological and ethnological interest in the literature of ancient peoples.
In hymn 14 there are three stanzas (10-12) that deal with the two dogs of Yama. This is the
classical passage, all depends upon its interpretation. They contain detached statements which
take up the idea from different points of view, that are not easily harmonized as long as the
dogs are merely ordinary canines; they resolve themselves fitly and neatly into a pair of natural
objects, if we follow closely all the ideas which the Hindus associated with them.

In the first place, it is clear that we are dealing with the conception of Cerberus. In stanza
10 the two dogs are conceived as ill-disposed creatures, standing guard to keep the departed
souls out of bliss. The soul on its way to heaven is addressed as follows:

"Run past straightway the two four-eyed dogs, the spotted and (the dark), the brood of Saram[=a];
enter in among the propitious fathers who hold high feast with Yama."

A somewhat later text, the book of house-rite of [=A]çval[=a]yana, has the notion of the sop
to Cerberus: "To the two dogs born in the house of (Yama) Vivasvant's son, to the dark and
the spotted, I have given a cake; do ye guard me ever on my road!"

The twelfth stanza of the Rig-Veda hymn strikes a somewhat different note which suggests both
good and evil in the character of the two dogs: "The two brown, broad-nosed messengers of Yama,
life-robbing, wander among men. May they restore to us to-day the auspicious breath of life,
that we may behold the sun." Evidently the part of the Cerberi here is not in harmony with
their function in stanza 10: instead of debarring men from the abodes of bliss they pick out
the dead that are ultimately destined to boon companionship with Yama. The same idea is expressed
simply and clearly in prayers for long life in the Atharva-Veda: "The two dogs of Yama, the
dark and the spotted, that guard the road (to heaven), that have been dispatched, shall not
(go after) thee! Come hither, do not long to be away! Do not tarry here with thy mind turned
to a distance." (viii. 1. 9.) And again: "Remain here, O man, with thy soul entire! Do not
follow the two messengers of Yama; come to the abodes of the living." (v. 30. 6.)

These prayers contain the natural, yet under the circumstances rather paradoxical, desire to
live yet a little longer upon the earth in the light of the sun. Fitfully the mortal Hindu
regales himself with saccharine promises of paradise; in his every-day mood he clings to life
and shrinks with the uneasy sense that his paradise may not materialize, even if the hope is
expressed glibly and fluently. The real craving is expressed in numberless passages: "May we
live a hundred autumns, surrounded by lusty sons." Homer's Hades has wiped out this inconsistency,
only to substitute another. Odysseus, on returning from his visit to Hades, exclaims baldly:
"Better a swineherd on the surface of the earth in the light of the sun than king of the shades
in Hades." It is almost adding insult to injury to have the road to such a Hades barred by
Cerberus. This latter paradox must be removed in order that the myth shall become intelligible.

The eleventh of the Rig-Veda stanzas presents the two dogs as guides of the soul [Greek: psychopompoi]
to heaven: "To thy two four-eyed, road-guarding, man-beholding watch-dogs entrust him, O King
Yama, and bestow on him prosperity and health."

THE TWO DOGS IN HEAVEN.

With the change of the abode of the dead from inferno to heaven the two Cerberi are eo ipso
also evicted. That follows of itself, even if we had not explicit testimony. A legend of the
Br[=a]hmana-texts, the Hindu equivalent of the Talmud, tells repeatedly that there are two
dogs in heaven, and that these two dogs are Yama's dogs. I shall present two versions of the
story, a kind of [Greek: Gigantomachia] in order to establish the equation between the terms
"two dogs of Yama," and "two heavenly dogs."

"There were Asuras (demons) named K[=a]lak[=a]njas. They piled up a fire altar in order to
obtain the world of heaven. Man by man they placed a brick upon it. The god Indra, passing
himself off for a Brahmin, put on a brick for himself. They climbed up to heaven. Indra pulled
out his brick; they tumbled down. And they who tumbled down became spiders; two flew up, and
became the two heavenly dogs." (Br[=a]hmana of the T[=a]ittir[=i]yas 1. 1. 2.)

"The Asuras (demons) called K[=a]lak[=a]njas piled bricks for an altar, saying: 'We will ascend
to heaven.' Indra, passing himself off for a Brahmin, came to them; he put on a brick. They
at first came near getting to heaven; then Indra tore out his brick. The Asuras becoming quite
feeble fell down; the two that were uppermost became the dogs of Yama, those which were lower
became spiders." (Br[=a]hmana of the M[=a]itra 1. 6. 9.)

This theme is so well fixed in the minds of the time that it is elaborated in a charm to preserve
from some kind of injury, addressed to the mythic figures of the legend:

"Through the air he flies looking down upon all beings: with the majesty of the heavenly dog,
with that oblation would we pay homage to thee.

"The three K[=a]lak[=a]njas, that are fixed upon the sky like gods, all these I have called
to help, to render this person free from harm.

"In the waters is thy origin, upon the heavens thy home, in the middle of the sea, and upon
the earth, thy greatness; with the majesty of the heavenly dog, with that oblation would we
pay homage to thee." (Atharva-Veda vi., 80.)

The single heavenly dog that is described here is of no mean interest. The passage proves the
individual character of each of the two dogs of Yama; they cannot be a vague pair of heavenly
dogs, but must be based each upon some definite phenomenon in the heavens.

Yet another text, Hiranyakeçin's book of house-rites, locates the dogs of Yama, describing
them in unmistakable language, in heaven: "The brood of Saram[=a], dark beneath and brown,
run, looking down upon the sea." (ii. 7. 2.)

THE TWO DOGS OF YAMA EXPLAIN THEMSELVES.

There are not many things in heaven that can be represented as a pair, coursing across the
sky, looking down upon the sea, and having other related properties. My readers will make a
shrewd guess, but I prefer to let the texts themselves unfold the transparent mystery. The
Veda of the Katha school (xxxvii. 14) says: "These two dogs of Yama, verily, are day and night,"
and the Br[=a]hmana of the K[=a]ush[=i]takins (ii. 9) argues in Talmudic strain: "At eve, when
the sun has gone down, before darkness has set in, one should sacrifice the agnihotra-sacrifice;
in the morning before sunrise, when darkness is dispelled, at that time, one should sacrifice
the agnihotra-sacrifice; at that time the gods arrive. Therefore (the two dogs of Yama) Çy[=a]ma
and Çabala (the dark and the spotted) tear to pieces the agnihotra of him that sacrifices otherwise.
Çabala is the day; Çy[=a]ma is the night. He who sacrifices in the night, his agnihotra Çy[=a]ma
tears asunder; he who sacrifices in broad daylight, his agnihotra Çabala tears asunder." Even
more drily the two dogs of Yama are correlated with the time-markers of heaven in a passage
of the T[=a]ittir[=i]ya-Veda (v. 7. 19); here sundry parts of the sacrificial horse are assigned
to four cosmic phenomena in the following order: 1. Sun and moon. 2. Çy[=a]ma and Çabala (the
two dogs of Yama). 3. Dawn. 4. Evening twilight. So that the dogs of Yama are sandwiched in
between sun and moon on the one side, dawn and evening twilight on the other. Obviously they
are here, either as a special designation of day and night, or their physical equivalents,
sun and moon. And now the Çatapatha-Br[=a]hmana says explicitly: "The moon verily is the divine
dog; he looks down upon the cattle of the sacrificer." And again a passage in the Kashmir version
of the Atharva-Veda says: "The four-eyed dog (the moon) surveys by night the sphere of the night."

SUN AND MOON AS STATIONS ON THE WAY TO SALVATION.

Even the theosophic Upanishads are compelled to make their way through this tolerably crude
mythology when they come to deal with the passage of the soul to release from existence and
absorption in the universal Brahma. The human mind does not easily escape some kind of eschatological
topography. The Brahma itself may be devoid of all properties, universal, pervasive, situated
below as well as above, the one true thing everywhere; still even the Upanishads finally fix
upon a world of Brahma, and that is above, not below, nor elsewhere; hence the soul must pass
the great cosmic potencies that seem to lie on the road from the sublunary regions to Brahma.
The K[=a]ush[=i]taki Upanishad (1. 2. 3) arranges that all who leave this world first go to
the moon, the moon being the door of the world of light. The moon asks certain theosophic questions;
he alone who can answer them is considered sufficiently emancipated to advance to the world
of Brahma. He who cannot--alas!--is born again as worm or as fly; as fish or as fowl; as lion
or as boar; as bull or tiger or man; or as something else--any old thing, as we should say--in
this place or in that place, according to the quality of his works and the degree of his knowledge;
that is, in accordance with the doctrine of Karma. Similarly the M[=a]itri Upanishad (vi. 38)
sketches salvation as follows: When a mortal no longer approves of wrath, and ponders the true
wish, he penetrates the veil that encloses the Brahma, breaks through the concentric circles
of sun, moon, fire, etc., that occupy the ether. Only then does he behold the supreme thing
that is founded upon its own greatness only. And now the Ch[=a]ndogya Upanishad (viii. 13)
has the same idea, mentioning both moon and sun by their ancient names and in their capacity
as dogs of Yama. The soul of the aspirant for fusion with Brahma resorts purgatorio-fashion
alternately to Çy[=a]ma (the moon-dog) and Çabala (the sun-dog): "From Çy[=a]ma (the moon)
do I resort to Çabala (the sun); from Çabala to Çy[=a]ma. Shaking off sin, as a steed shakes
off (the loose hair of) its mane, as the moon frees itself from the maw of R[=a]hu, the demon
of eclipse, casting aside my body, my real self delivered, do I enter into the uncreated world
of Brahma."[13]

ANALYSIS OF THE MYTH.

Hindu mythology is famous for what I should like to hear called arrested personification, or
arrested anthropomorphism. More than elsewhere mythic figures seem here to cling to the dear
memories of their birth and youth. This is due in part to the unequaled impressiveness of nature
in India; in part to the dogged schematism of the Hindu mind, which dislikes to let go of any
part of a thing from the beginning to end. On the one hand, their constant, almost too rhythmic
resort to nature in their poetry, and on the other, their Ved[=a]nta philosophy, or for that
matter their Ars amatoria (K[=a]maç[=a]stra), the latter worked out with painstaking and undignified
detail, illustrate the two points. Hence we find here a situation which is familiar enough
in the Veda, but scarcely and rarely exhibited in other mythological fields. Dogs, the two
dogs of Yama are, but yet, too, sun and moon. It is quite surprising how well the attributes
of things so different keep on fitting them both well enough. The color and brightness of the
sun jumps with the fixed epithet, "spotted," of the sun-dog Çabala; the moon-dog is black (Çy[=a]ma
or Çy[=a]va). Sun and moon, as they move across the sky, are the natural messengers of Yama,
seated on high in the abode of the blessed, but Yama is after all death, and death hounds us
all. Epithets like "man-beholding," or "guarding the way," suit neutrally both conceptions.
Above all, the earliest statements about Yama's dogs are relieved of their inconsistencies.
On the one hand the exhortation to the dead to run past the two dogs in order to get to heaven,
suits the idea of the heavenly dogs who are coursing across the sky. On the other hand, by
an easy, though quite contrary, change of mental position, the same two heavenly dogs are the
guides who guard the way and look upon men favorably; hence they are ordered by Yama to take
charge of the dead and to furnish them such health and prosperity as the shades happen to have
use for. Again, by an equally simple shift of position, sun and moon move among men as the
messengers of death; by night and by day men perish, while these heavenly bodies alternate
in their presence among men.[14] Hence a text of the Veda can say in a similar mood: "May Day
and Night procure for us long life" (House-book of [=A]çval[=a]yana, ii. 4. 14). Conversely
it is a commonplace of the Veda to say that day and night destroy the lives of men. One text
says that, "day and night are the encircling arms of death" (Br[=a]hmana of the K[=a]ush[=i]takin,
ii. 9). Another, more explicitly, "the year is death"; by means of day and night does it destroy
the life of mortals (Çatapatha-Br[=a]hmana, x. 4. 3. 1). He who wishes to be released from
the grim grip of day and night sacrifices (symbolically) white and black rice, and pronounces
the words: "Hail to Day; hail to Night; hail to Release" (Br[=a]hmana of the T[=a]ittiriya,
iii. 1. 6. 2). Who does not remember in this connection the parable widely current in the Orient,
in which two rats, one white, the other black, gnaw alternately, but without let-up, the plant
or tree of life?[15]

THE CERBERI IN THE NORSE MYTH.

Norse mythology also contains certain animal pairs which seem to reflect the two dualities,
sun and moon, and day and night. There is here no certainty as to detail; the Norse myth is
advanced and congealed, if not spurious, as Professor Bugge and his school would have us believe.
At the feet of Odin lie his two wolves, Geri and Freki, "Greedy" and "Voracious." They hurl
themselves across the lands when peace is broken. Who shall say that they are to be entirely
dissociated from Yama's two dogs of death? The virgin Menglödh sleeps in her wonderful castle
on the mountain called Hyfja, guarded by the two dogs Geri and Gifr, "Greedy" and "Violent,"
who take turns in watching; only alternately may they sleep as they watch the Hyfja mountain.
"One sleeps by night, the other by day, and thus no one may enter" (Fiölsvinnsmâl, 16). It
is not necessary to suppose any direct connection between this fable and the Vedic myth, but
the root of the thought, no matter from how great a distance it may have come, and how completely
it may have been worked over by the Norse skald, is, after all, alternating sun and moon and
their partners, day and night.

CERBERUS IN THE PERSIAN AVESTA.

No reasonable student of mythology will demand of a myth so clearly destined for fructification
an everlasting virginal inviolateness. From the start almost the two dogs of Yama are the brood
of Saram[=a]. Why? Saram[=a] is the female messenger of the gods, at the root identical with
Hermes or Hermeias; she is therefore the predestined mother of those other messengers, the
two four-eyed dogs of Yama. And as the latter are her litter the myth becomes retroactive;
she herself is fancied later on as a four-eyed bitch (Atharva-Veda, iv. 20. 7). Similarly the
epithet "broad-nosed" stands not in need of mythic interpretation, as soon as it has become
a question of life-hunting dogs. Elusive and vague, I confess, is the persistent and important
attribute "four-eyed." This touch is both old and widespread. The Avesta, the bible of the
ancient Iranians, has reduced the Cerberus myth to stunted rudiments. In Vendidad, xiii. 8.
9, the killing of dogs is forbidden, because the soul of the slayer "when passing to the other
world, shall fly amid louder howling and fiercer pursuit than the sheep does when the wolf
rushes upon it in the lofty forest. No soul will come and meet his departing soul and help
it through the howls and pursuit in the other world; nor will the dogs that keep the Cinvad
bridge (the bridge to paradise) help his departing soul through the howls and pursuit in the
other world." The Avesta also conceives this dog to be four-eyed. When a man dies, as soon
as the soul has parted from the body, the evil one, the corpse-devil (Druj Nasu), from the
regions of hell, falls upon the dead. Whoever henceforth touches the corpse becomes unclean,
and makes unclean whomsoever he touches. The devil is expelled from the dead by means of the
"look of the dog": a "four-eyed dog" is brought near the body and is made to look at the dead;
as soon as he has done so the devil flees back to hell (Vendidad, vii. 7; viii. 41). It is
not easy to fetch from a mythological hell mythological monsters for casual purposes, especially
as men are always engaged in dying upon the earth. Herakles is the only one who, one single
time, performed this notable "stunt." So the Parsis, being at a loss to find four-eyed dogs,
interpret the name as meaning a dog with two spots over the eyes. Curiously enough the Hindu
scholiasts also regularly interpret the term "four-eyed" in exactly the same way, "with spots
over the eyes." And the Vedic ritual in its turn has occasion to realize the mythological four-eyed
dog in practice. The horse, at the horse-sacrifice, must take a bath for consecration to the
holy end to which it is put. It must also be guarded against hostile influences. A low-caste
man brings a four-eyed dog--here obviously the symbol of the hostile powers--kills him with
a club, and afterwards places him under the feet of the horse. It is scarcely necessary to
state that this is a dog with spots over his eyes, and that he is a symbol of Cerberus.[16]

THE TERM "FOUR-EYED."

The epithet "four-eyed" may possibly contain a tentative coagulation of the two dogs in one.
The capacity of the two dogs to see both by day (the sun) and by night (the moon) may have
given the myth a slight start into the direction of the two-headed Greek Cerberus. But there
is the alternate possibility that four-eyed is but a figure of speech for "sharp-sighted,"
especially as I have shown elsewhere that the parallel expression "to run with four feet" is
a Vedic figure of speech for "swift of foot."[17] Certainly the god Agni, "Fire," is once in
the Rig-Veda (i. 31. 13) called "four-eyed," which can only mean "sharp-sighted."

THE DUAL ÇABAL[=A]U.

The two dogs of Yama derive their proper names from their color epithets. The passages above
make it clear that Çy[=a]ma (rarely Çy[=a]va), "the black," is the moon dog, and that Çabala,
"the spotted, or brindled," is the sun dog. In one early passage (Rig-Veda, x. 14. 10) both
dogs are named in the dual as Çabal[=a]u. But for a certain Vedic usage one might think that
"the two spotted ones" was their earliest designation. The usage referred to is the eliptic
dual: a close or natural pair, each member of which suggests the other, may be expressed through
the dual of one of them, as when either m[=a]tar[=a]u or pitar[=a]u, literally, "the two mothers,"
and "the two fathers," each mean "the two parents."[18] From this we may conclude that Çabal[=a]u
means really Çabala and Çy[=a]ma, and not the two Çabalas, that is, "the two spotted ones."

IS ÇABALAS = [Greek: Kerberos]?

More than a hundred years ago the Anglo-Indian Wilford, in the Asiatick Researches, iii., page
409, wrote: "Yama, the regent of hell, has two dogs, according to the Pur[=a]nas; one of them
named Cerbura, or varied; the other Syama, or black." He then compares Cerbura with Kerberos,
of course. The form Cerbura he obtained from his consulting Pandit, who explained the name
Çabala by the Sanskrit word karbura "variegated," a regular gloss of the Hindu scholiasts.

About fifty years later a number of distinguished scholars of the past generation, Max Müller,
Albrecht Weber, and Theodor Benfey, compared the word Çabala with Greek [Greek: Kerberos] (rarely
[Greek: Kerbelos]), but, since then, this identification has been assailed in numerous quarters
with some degree of heat, because it suffers from a slight phonetic difficulty. One need but
remember the swift changes which the name of Apollo passes through in the mouths of the Greeks--[Greek:
Apollôn], [Greek: Apellôn], [Greek: Appellôn], [Greek: Apeilôn], [Greek: Aploun][19]--to realize
that it is useless to demand strict phonetic conservation of mythic proper names. The nominative
Çabalas, translated sound for sound into Greek, yields [Greek: Keberos], [Greek: Kebelos];
vice versa, [Greek: Kerberos?] translated sound for sound into Vedic Sanskrit yields Çalbalas,
or perhaps, dialectically, Çabbalas. It is a sober view that considers it rather surprising
that the two languages have not manipulated their respective versions of the word so as to
increase still further the phonetic distance between them. Certainly the burden is now to prove
that the identification is to be rejected, and, I think, that the soundest linguistic science
will refuse ultimately to consider the phonetic discrepancy between the two words as a matter
of serious import.

But whether the names Çabalas and Kerberos are identical or not, the myth itself is the thing.
The explanation which we have coaxed step by step from the texts of the Veda imparts to the
myth a definite character: it is no longer a dark and uncertain touch in the troubled visions
of hell, but an uncommonly lucid treatment of an important cosmic phenomenon. Sun and moon
course across the sky: beyond is the abode of light and the blessed. The coursers are at one
moment regarded as barring the way to heaven; at another as outposts who may guide the soul
to heaven. In yet another mood, as they constantly, day by day, look down upon the race of
men, dying day by day, they are regarded as picking daily candidates for the final journey.
In due time Yama and his heaven are degraded to a mere Pluto and hell; then the terrible character
of the two dogs is all that can be left to them. And the two dogs blend into a unit variously,
either a four-eyed Parsi dog, or a two-headed--finally a plural-headed--Kerberos.

OTHER DOGS OF HELL.

The peace of mind of one or the other reader is likely to be disturbed by the appearance of
a hell-dog here and there among peoples outside of the Indo-European (Aryan) family. So, e.
g., I. G. Müller, in his Geschichte der Americanischen Urreligionen, second edition, p. 88,
mentions a dog who threatens to swallow the souls in their passage of the river of hell. There
was a custom among the Mordwines to put a club into the coffin with the corpse, to enable him
to drive away the watch-dogs at the gate of the nether world.[20] The Mordwines, however, have
borrowed much of their mythology from the Iranians. The dog is prominent in animal mythology;
one of his functions is to watch. It is quite possible, nay likely, that a dog, pure and simple,
has strayed occasionally into this sphere of conceptions without any further organic meaning--simply
as a baying, hostile watch-dog. But we cannot prove anything by an ignorant non possumus; the
conception may, even if we cannot say must, after all in each case, have been derived from
essentially the same source: the dead journeying upward to heaven interfered with by a coursing
heavenly body, the sun or the moon, or both. Anyhow, the organic quality of the Indo-European,
or at least the Hindu myth makes it guide and philosopher. From dual sun and moon coursing
across the sky to the two hell-hounds, each step of development is no less clear than from
Zeus pater, "Father Sky," to breezy Jove, the gentleman about town with his escapades and amours.
To reverse the process, to imagine that the Hindus started with two visionary dogs and finally
identified them with sun and moon--that is as easy and natural as it is for a river to flow
up the hill back to its source.

MAX MÜLLER'S CERBERUS.

The rudiment of the present essay in Comparative Mythology was published by the writer some
years ago in a learned journal, under the title, "The two dogs of Yama in a new role."[22]
My late lamented friend, Max Müller, the gifted writer who knew best of all men how to rivet
the attention of the cultivated public upon questions of this sort, did me the honor to notice
my proposition in an article in the London Academy of August 13, 1892 (number 1058, page 134-5),
entitled "Professor Bloomfield's Contributions to the Interpretation of the Veda." In this
article he seems to try to establish a certain similarity between his conception of the Kerberos
myth and my own. This similarity seems to me to be entirely illusory. Professor Müller's own
last words on the subject in the Preface of his Contributions to the Science of Mythology (p.
xvi.), will make clear the difference between our views. He identifies, as he always has identified,
Kerberos with the Vedic stem çarvara, from which is derived çarvar[=i], "night." To quote his
own words: "The germ of the idea ... must be discovered in that nocturnal darkness, that ç[=a]rvaram
tamas, which native mythologists in India had not yet quite forgotten in post-Vedic times."
With such a view my own has not the least point of contact. Çabala, the name of one of the
dogs, means "spotted, bright"; it is the name of the sun-dog; it is quite the opposite of the
ç[=a]rvaram tamas. The name of the moon-dog, and, by transfer, the dog of the night, is Çy[=a]ma
or Çy[=a]va "black," not Çabala, nor Çarvara. The association of the two dogs with day and
night is the association of sun and moon with their respective diurnal divisions, and nothing
more. Of Cimmerian gloom there can be nothing in the myth primarily, because it deals at the
beginning with heaven, and not with hell; with an auspicious, and not a gloomy, vision of life
after death.

CERBERUS AND COMPARATIVE MYTHOLOGY.

In conclusion I would draw the attention of those scholars, writers, and publicists that have
declared bankruptcy against the methods and results of Comparative Mythology to the present
attempt to establish an Indo-European naturalistic myth. I would ask them to consider, in the
light of the Veda, that it is probable that the early notions of future life turn to the visible
heaven with its sun and moon, rather than to the topographically unstable and elusive caves
and gullies that lead to a wide-gated Hades. In heaven, therefore, and not in hell, is the
likely breeding spot of the Cerberus myth. On the way to heaven there is but one pair that
can have shaped itself reasonably in the minds of primitive observers into a pair of Cerberi.
Sun and moon, the Veda declares, are the Cerberi. In due time, and by gradual stages, the heaven
myth became a hell myth. The Vedic seers had no Pluto, no Hades, no Styx, and no Charon; yet
they had the pair of dogs. Now when Yama and his heaven become Pluto and hell, then, and only
then, Yama's dogs are on a plane with the three-headed, or two-headed, Greek Kerberos. Is it
not likely that the chthonic hell visions of the Greeks were also preceded by heavenly visions,
and that Kerberos originally sprang from heaven? Consider, too, the breadth and the persistence
of these ideas, their simple background, and their natural transition from one feature to another
in the myth of Cerberus; that is, the notions of sun and moon (day and night) in their relation
to the precarious life of man upon the earth, his death, and his future life. For my part,
I do not believe that the honest critics of the methods and results of Comparative Mythology,
though they have been made justly suspicious by the many failures in this field, will ever
successfully "run past, straightway, the two four-eyed dogs, the spotted and the dark, the
Çabal[=a]u, the brood of Saram[=a]."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Iliad viii. 368; Odyssey xi. 623.

[2] Theogony, 311 ff.; cf. also 769 ff.

[3] Republic, 588 C.

[4] Baumeister, volume I., page 620 (figure 690).

[5] Baumeister, volume I., page 379 (figure 415).

[6] Baumeister, volume I., page 653 (figure 721).

[7] Baumeister, volume I., page 663 (figure 730). See the Frontispiece and its explanation.

[8] American Journal of Archæology, volume XI., page 14 (figure 12, page 15).

[9] Custos opaci pervigil regni canis. Seneca.

[10] Inferno, Canto vi., 13 ff.

[11] See p. 99 of the Teubner edition of his writings.

[12] Fulgentius, Liber I., Fabula VI., de Tricerbero, p. 20 of the Teubner edition.

[13] Both Çankara, the great Hindu theologian and commentator of the Upanishads, as well as
all modern interpreters of the Upanishads, have failed to see the sense of this passage.

[14] Cf. the notion of the sun as the "highest death" in T[=a]ittir[=i]va Br[=a]hmana, i. 8. 4.

[15] See Ernst Kuhn, Festgruss an Otto von Böhtlingk, page 68 ff.

[16] Similar notions in Russia and Russian Asia are reported by Wsevolod Miller, Atti del iv.
Congresso Internazionale degli Orientalisti, vol. ii. p. 43; and by Casartelli, Babylonian
and Oriental Record, iv. 266 ff. They are most likely derived from Iranian sources.

[17] See American Journal of Philology, vol. XI., p. 355.

[18] Similarly in Greek [Greek: Aiante] means Ajax and Teukros; see Delbrück, Vergleichende
Syntax, i. 137.

[19] See Usener, Götternamen, p. 303 ff.

[20] Max Müller, Contributions to the Science of Mythology, p. 240.

[21] Brinton, The Myths of the New World. Second Edition, p. 265.

[22] Presented to the American Oriental Society at its meeting May 5, 1891; and printed in
its Journal, Vol. XV., pp. 163 ff.

+--------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcriber's Notes:          
| |Standardized Punctuation.                               | |Page 29: Changed whomsover to
whomsoever.               | |Page 34: Changed [Greek: Kebreros] to [Greek: Kerberos].| |Footnote
18: Changed I. 137. to i. 137.                 | +--------------------------------------------------------+

