193
  Collar of SS. 194
  Tenyson--Coleridge--Extract from Baker's MSS. on
    Barth. Dodyngton, and William Jenkin, by J.E.B.
    Mayor. 195
  Parallel Passages. 196
  Folk Lore:--Power of Prophecy--Bay Leaves at Funerals--Shoes
    (old) thrown for Luck--Roasting Mice for Hooping-Cough--The
    Story of Mr. Fox--Baptismal Superstition--Rushbearing. 196

QUERIES:--
  Who wrote Shakspeare's Henry VIII.? by Samuel
    Hickson. 198
  Minor Queries:--The Abbé Strickland--Works on
    Aerostation--Pilgrims' Road to Canterbury--"Ædricus
    qui signa fundebat"--Osmund, the Waterman--Logic--Darbon
    Gatherall--Damasked Linen--Flourish--Drax Abbey and Free
    School--Ancient Catalogue of Books. 198

REPLIES:--
  Shakspeare's Use of the Word "Delighted," by S.W.
    Singer. 200
  Family of Love. 201
  Translation of the Philobiblon. 202
  Etymological Queries, by S.W. Singer. 203
  Replies to Minor Queries:--Lord Richard
    Christophilus--Poker--Querela Cantabrigiensis--"One
    Bell"--Fabulous Account of the Lion--Pomfret on the
    Thames--Walrond Family--Armenian Language--Genealogical
    Query--Richard Baxter's Descendants--Duresme and Dunelm. 204

MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c. 207
  Books and Odd Volumes Wanted. 207
  Notices to Correspondents. 207
  Advertisements. 207

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES

NOTES AND QUERIES

The history of books and periodicals of a similar character ought to be the object of interest
to the readers of this work. The number of works in which answers have been given to proposed
questions is not small. Not to mention the Spectator and its imitators, nor the class of almanacs
which give riddles and problems, nor mathematical periodicals of a more extensive character,--though
all these ought to be discussed in course of time,--there yet remains a class of books in which
general questions proposed by the public are answered periodically, either by the public or
by the editors. Perhaps an account of one of these may bring out others.

In 1736 and 1737 appeared the Weekly Oracle; or, Universal Library. Published by a Society
of Gentlemen. One folio sheet was published weekly, usually ending in the middle of a sentence.
(Query. What is the technical name for this mode of publication? If none, what ought to be?)
I have one folio volume of seventy numbers, at the end of which notice of suspension is given,
with prospect of revival in another form probably no more was published. The introduction is
an account of the editorial staff to wit, a learned divine who "hath entered with so much discernment
into the true spirit of the schoolmen, especially Thomas Aquinas and Duns Scotus, that he is
qualified to resolve, to a hair's breadth, the nicest cases of conscience." A physician who
"knows, to a mathematical point, the just tone and harmony of the risings pulses...." A lawyer
who "what he this day has proved to be a contingent remainder, to-morrow he will with equal
learning show must operate as an executory devise or as a springing use." A philosopher "able
to give the true reason of all things, from the composition of watches, to the raising of minced
pies ... and who, if he is closely questioned about the planner of squaring the circle, or
by what means the perpetual motion, or longitude, may be discovered, we believe has honesty,
and we are sure that he has skill enough to say that he knows--nothing of the matter." A moral
philosopher who has "discovered a perpetuum mobile of government." An eminent virtuoso who
understands "what is the best pickle to preserve a rattle-snake or an Egyptian mummy, better
than the nature of the government he lives under, or the economy and welfare of himself and
family." Lastly, a man of mode. "Him the beaus and the ladies may consult in the affairs of
love, dress, and equipage."

There is a great deal of good answering to tolerably rational questions, mixed with some attempts
at humour, and other eccentricities, and occasionally a freedom, both of question and answer,
by which we might, were it advisable, confirm the fact, that the decorums of 1736 and of 1850
are two different things.{194}

First, as an instance of a question and answer, which might do as well (if the record be correct)
for the present publication.

    "Q. We read in our public papers of the Pope's Bull and the
    Pope's Brief; pray, Gentlemen, what is the difference between
    them?

    "A. They differ much in the same manner as the Great Seal and
    Privy Seal do here in England. The Bull being of the highest
    authority where the papal power extends; the Brief is of less
    authority. The Bull has a leaden seal upon silk affixed to the
    foot of the instrument, as the wax under the Great Seal is to
    our letters patent. The Brief has sub annulo piscatoris upon
    the side."

Query. Is this answer complete and correct?

Now for another specimen:

  "Q. Wise Oracle show,
        A good reason why,
      When from tavern we go,
        You're welcome they cry.

  "A. The reason is plain,
       'Cause doubtful to know,
      Till seeing their gain,
        If you came well or no."

The following is an example of unanswerable refutation. To show why a man has not one rib less
than a woman, it is stated that imperfections are not hereditary; as in the case of

    "One Mr. L----, an honest sailor not far from Stepney, who has
    but one arm, and who cannot walk himself without the assistance
    of a wooden leg, and yet has a son, born some years after the
    amputation of is own limbs, whom he has bred both a fiddler and
    a dancing master."

One more, not for the wretched play upon words, but because it may make a new Query,--What
does it all mean?

    "Q. Gentlemen, in the preamble to the late Earl of Oxford's
    patent, I observed, 'And whom they have congratulated upon his
    escape from the rage of a flagitious parricide.' I desire to
    know by whom, at what time, and in what manner, the said
    parricide was to have been committed.

    "A. Was to have been! He actually was committed--to Newgate."

So much for some of the "NOTES AND QUEERIES" (as the word ought to be spelt) of a century ago.

M.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLLAR OF SS.

  "All the ensigns and marks of honour appertaining
  to persons of highest distinction, are equestrian."--Sabnasins.

The interest which attaches to this very ancient and distinguished ensign of chivalrous honour
will excuse the introduction into your pages of a fuller dissertation upon the subject than
what appears in "NOTES AND QUERIES," Nos. 39. and 41., in answer to the several questions put
by your correspondents B. and [Greek: Ph].

After referring to the papers on the Collar of SS., and other collars of livery, published
a few years ago in the Gentleman's Magazine, and his intention to arrange them, and other additional
collections on the same subject, in the shape of a small volume, MR. J.G. NICHOLS proceeds to say:

    "As a direct answer to B.'s question, 'Is there any list of
    persons who were honoured with that badge, (viz., the Collar of
    SS.?)', I may reply, No. Persons were not, in fact, 'honoured
    with the badge,' in the sense that persons are now decorated
    with stars, crosses, or medals; but the livery collar was
    assumed by parties holding a certain position. So far as can
    be ascertained, these were either knights attached to the royal
    household or service, who wore gold or gilt collars, or esquires
    in the like position who wore silver collars."

From the statute for the regulation of apparel, passed in the 2nd year of the reign of Henry
IV., it is ordained that--

    "All the sons of the king, dukes, earls, barons, and baronettes,
    might use the livery of our Lord the King of his collar as well
    in his absence as in his presence; and that all other knights
    and esquires should use it only in the presence of the king and
    not in his absence."

The royal assent to this bill was accompanied with further regulations, among which were:

    "That the dukes, earls, barons, and baronettes of the realm
    might use the said livery in their counties and elsewhere; and
    that knights and esquires might use the said livery in going
    from the hostel of the king and returning, to it, always
    provided that they did not use it in the counties and countries
    in which they resided or sojourned."

That the golden Collar of SS. was the undoubted badge or mark of a knight (chevalier, eques
auratus seu ordo equestris, for these words respectively indicate the same grade or dignity
of knighthood) all our ancient heraldic writers allow. But, were it otherwise, the extract
from the statute above given shows that MR. NICHOLS is incorrect in stating, 1st. That there
is no list of persons who were honoured with the collar of SS.; 2nd. That persons were not
honoured with the badge, in the sense that persons are now decorated with stars, crosses, &c.;
3rd. That the collar was assumed; and, 4th. That the assumers were, "so far as can be ascertained,
knights holding a certain position,--such as being attached to the royal household or service."

It is important to point out these four inaccuracies of MR. NICHOLS' reply to B., because it
is desirable that his forthcoming volume should not be a heterogeneous collection of notices
relating to the Collar of SS., mixed up with observations that will only serve the purpose
of darkening knowledge upon the subject of which he treats.

The Collar of SS. is found in great variety of {195} shapes, and at what precise time it became
an ensign of equestrian nobility no one can tell. Collars were worn at least so far back as
the days of Livy (i.e. the commencement of the Christian era); for he recounts that Manlius
having pulled off the collar of a Gaul, took the name of Torquatus, and afterwards always wore
the collar. Such being the case, there is no room for doubting that this ensign formed one
of the ornaments of knighthood from the period of that dignity's earliest introduction into
England.

There is a notion, from the circumstance of "Soverayne" being the favourite motto or impress
of Henry IV., that the Collar of SS. takes its name from the initial letter of that word; and
the introduction of the portcullis into the collar, which was the device of the House of Lancaster,
is also considered by some as proof that the collar originated with that king. In the effigies,
however, of Henry IV. and his queen, Joan of Navarre, in the Chapel of St. Thomas Becket, Canterbury
Cathedral, the collar which appears round the neck of the queen (there is none upon that of
the king) has no portcullis. And as to the derivations of the name of the collar from "Soverayne,"
from St. Simplicius, from the martyrs of Soissons (viz. St. Crespin and St. Crespinian, upon
whose anniversary the battle of Agincourt was fought), from the Countess of Salisbury, of Garter
notoriety, from the word "Souvenez" and, lastly, from Seneschallus or Steward (which latter
is MR. NICHOLS' notion)--they may all be regarded as mere monkish or heraldic gossip. Put these
notices together and they may be considered sufficient to demolish the Lancastrian origin theory
of the collar, on the one hand, and to unfold the true source of the collar's nomenclature
on the other, viz. that it comes from the S-shaped lever upon the bit of the bridle of the
war steed.

To [Greek: Ph].'s question, "Who are the persons now privileged to wear these collars?" MR.
NICHOLS answers, "I believe the reply must be confined to the judges, the Lord Mayor of London,
the Lord Mayor of Dublin, the kings and heralds of arms." The privilege of wearing a Collar
of SS., so far as the various persons enumerated are concerned, is a mere official privilege,
and can scarcely be cited in reply to [Greek: Ph].'s interrogative, except upon the principle,
"Exceptio probat regulam." The persons now privileged to wear the ancient golden Collar of
SS. are the equites aurati, or knights (chevaliers) in the British monarchy, a body which includes
all the hereditary order of baronets in England, Scotland, and Ireland, with such of their
eldest sons, being of age, as choose to claim inauguration as knights. It is presumable too
that the Collar of SS. is also an incident of the minor degree of knight bachelor (bas-chevalier
seu miles-bachillarus); whilst the silver Collar of SS. belongs to every head of a family of
ancient esquirage quality, bearing arms. It is true, the fashion of wearing the collar, whether
gold or silver, may be said to have been in desuetude for centuries. But rights of blood never
prescribe; and there are strong grounds to believe that there will again be a general revival
of the use of such distinctions.

There are various other points bearing upon the subject of the Collar of SS., upon which I
wish to offer some remarks, and with your permission I will return to the subject. I cannot,
however, conclude without observing, that it would much add to the value of MR. NICHOLS' compilation
if he would extend it so as to embrace a description of the floreal coronet of knighthood,
the belt of honour, the helmet, scarf, ring, spars, &c.,--all indeed, that the words "ad recipiendum
a nobis ARMA MILITARIA" implied in the ancient proclamations for taking the order of knighthood.
If MR. NICHOLS, in addition to this, will show also wherein the knights of this equestrian
quality differed from such persons as were distrained "ad se milites faciendos," he will solve
a number of knotty difficulties in heraldic literature, and will enable the public generally
to understand that there are many more chivalrous rights and privileges inherent in the subject
than what is dreamt of in the philosophy either of the court at St. James's, or the college
on St. Bennet's Hill.

ARMIGER. (Chaucer, Troilus and Creseide, iii. 1626. Marino, Adone, c. xiv., st. 100. Fortinguerra,
Riciardetto, c. xi. st. 83.)

In Coleridge's second Lay Sermon (ed. 1839, p. 365.) the passage-- {196}

    "What are you," (a philosopher was once asked), "in consequence
    of your admiration of these abstruse speculations?" He answered;
    "What I am, it does not become me to say; but what thousands
    are, who despise them, and even pride themselves on their
    ignorance, I see, and tremble."

is a quotation from Schiller (Werke, vol. i., p. 414. 1838)

  "AN DIE MUSE.

  "Was ich ohne dich wäre, ich weiss es nicht; aber mir
          grauet,
  Seh'ich, was ohne dich Hundert und Tausende sind."

In Appendix (B.) to Coleridge's first Lay Sermon (p. 276.), we read,--

    "An age or nation may become free from certain prejudices,
    beliefs, and superstitious practices, in two ways. It may have
    really risen above them; or it may have fallen below them, and
    become too bad for their continuance."

Though not given as a quotation, this passage is no doubt borrowed from Baader, as quoted by
Archdeacon Hare in a note to his Sermons on the Mission of the Comforter,--

    "Nations, like individuals, may get free and rid of certain
    prejudices, beliefs, customs, abuses, &c., in two ways. They may
    really have risen above them, or they may have fallen below them
    and become too bad for them."

In a volume of tracts (Class mark Gg. 5. 27.) in St. John's College Library, Cambridge, is
a copy of Nicolas Carr's edition of the Olynthiacs and Philippics of Demosthenes, (4to. London,
Henry Denham 1571.). As Carr died before the work was published, his friends wrote a number
of commemorative pieces in Greek and Latin, prose and verse, which are annexed to the volume.
Amongst the rest, Barth. Dodyngton wrote a copy of Greek elegiacs, and a Latin prose epistle.
On Dodyngton, Baker has written the following note:--

    "Barthol. Dodyngtonus in Com. Middlesex. natus, admissus fuit
    Discipulus Coll. Jo. pro Fundatrice an. 1548.--Idem admissus
    Socius, Apr. 8, an. 1552.--Idem admissus Socius Senior, an.
    1558.--Idem admissus Socius Major Coll. Trin. Oct. 29, an.
    1580."

In the same volume is note on Cheke:--

    "Joan. Cheke admissus Socius Coll. Jo. Cant., Mar. 26, an. 21.
    Henrici 8'vi."

Another tract in the same volume is "Exodus, &c., a Sermon Preach't Sept. 12, 1675. By occasion
of the much lamented Death of that Learned and Reverend Minister of Christ, Dr. Lazarus Seaman."--By
William Jenkyn. After Dr. Seaman's name Baker adds, "some time Master of Peter House." Of Jenkyn
he says: "Gul. Jenkin Coll. Jo. admissus in Matriculam Academiæ (designatus Joannensis), Jul.
3, an. 1628."

J.E.B. Mayor.

St. John's College, Cambridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARALLEL PASSAGES.

I believe the following have not been hitherto noticed in "NOTES AND QUERIES."

  "Nec mirum, quod divina natura dedit agros, ars
  humana ædidicavit urbes."--Varro, R. R. iii. 1.

  "God made the country and man made the town,
  What wonder then," &c.--The Task, i.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "[Greek: O de Kritias ... ekaleito idiotaes men en philosophois,
    philosuph s de en idiotais.]"--Schol. in Timoeum. Platonis.

    "Sparsum memini hominem inter scholasticos insanum, inter sanos
    scholasticum."--Seneca, Controv. i 7., Excerpt. ex Controv.
    ii.

    "Lord Chesterfield is a Wit among Lords, and a Lord among
    Wits."--Johnsoniana.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "[Greek: Ostis eim ego; Meton,
  On oiden Hellas cho Kolonos.]"

  Aristophanes, The Birds, 997.

  "Under the Tropics is our language spoke,
  And part of Flanders hath received our yoke."

  Martinus Scriblerus, Ch. xi.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Pandite, atque aperite propere januam hanc Orci,
          obsecro:
   Nam equidem haud aliter esse duco: quippe quo
          memo advenit
  Nisi quem spes reliquêre omnes."

  Plautus, Bacchis, Act iii Sc. 1.

  "Per me si va nella città dolente

  Lasciate ogni speranza, voi che intrate."

  Dante, Inferno, iii. 1-9.

W.B.D.

       *       *       *       *       *

FOLK LORE.

Power of Prophecy.--MR. AUG. GUEST (Vol. ii., p. 116.) will perhaps accept--as a small tribute
to his interesting communication on the subject of that "power of prophecy" which I apprehend
to be still believed by many to exist during certain lucid intervals before death--a reference
to Sir Henry Halford's Essay on the [Greek: Kausos] of Aretæus. (See Sir H. Halford's Essays
and Orations read and delivered at the Royal College of Physicians, Lond. 1831, pp. 93. et seq.)

J. Sansom.

Bay Leaves at Funerals.--In some parts of Wales it is customary for funerals to be preceded
by a female carrying bays, the leaves of which she sprinkles at intervals in the road which
the corpse will traverse.

Query, Is this custom practised elsewhere; and what is the meaning and origin of the use of
the bay?

N.P.

Shoes (old) thrown for luck.--Brand, in his Popular Antiquities, observes, that it is accounted
{197} lucky by the vulgar to throw an old shoe after a person when they wish him to succeed
in what he is going about. This custom is very prevalent in Norfolk whenever servants are going
in search of new places; and especially when they are going to be married, a shoe is thrown
after them as they proceed to church.

C.P.R.M.

Some years ago, when the vessels engaged in the Greenland whale-fishery left Whitby, in Yorkshire,
I observed the wives and friends of the sailors to throw old shoes at the ships as they passed
the pier-head. Query, What is the origin of this practice?

[Hebrew: T.A.]

Roasting Mice for Hooping-cough is also very common in Norfolk; but I am sorry to say that
a more cruel superstitious practice is sometimes inflicted on the little animal; for it is
not many years since I accidentally entered the kitchen in time to save a poor little mouse
from being hung up by the tail and roasted alive, as the means of expelling the others of its
race from the house. I trust that this barbarous practice will soon be forgotten.

R.G.P.M.

The Story of Mr. Fox.--Your correspondent F.L., who has related the story of Sir Richard, surnamed
Bloody, Baker, is, doubtless, aware of a similar tale with which Mr. Blakeway furnished my
late friend James Boswell, and which the latter observed "is perhaps one of the most happy
illustrations of Shakspeare that has appeared."--(Malone's Shakspeare, vol. vii. pp. 20. 163.)

The two narratives of Bloody Baker and Mr. Fox are substantially the same. Variations will
naturally creep in when a story is related by word of mouth; for instance, the admonition over
the chamber in Mr. Fox's house--

  "Be bold, be bold! but not too bold
  Lest that your heart's blood should run cold."

is altogether of a more dignified character than the similar warning given by the parrot, at
p. 68. Each of these worthies, Baker and Fox, is seen bringing into his house the corpse of
a murdered lady, whose hand falls into the lap of the concealed visitor; but in Fox's story
the ornament on the hand is a rich bracelet, in Baker's a ring. The assassins are, in both
stories, invited to the visitor's house, and upon Fox summary justice is inflicted.

It may be asked, if Baker was burned, how came he to have a tomb with gloves, helmet, &c.,
suspended over it in Cranbrook Church? Such honour was not paid to a man of higher rank in
Salisbury Cathedral, a murderer also, who was hung, viz., Lord Stourton. Dodsworth tells us
that till about 1775, no chivalrous emblems were suspended over the latter, but only a twisted
wire, with a noose, emblematic of the halter. Allow me to ask, What instances have we of tombs
or gravestones, as memorials of individuals who have suffered at the stake, exclusive of those
monuments which in after times may have been raised in honour of distinguished martyrs at the
Reformation?

J.H.M.

Bath.

Baptismal Superstition.--In the north of England, when several children are brought to be baptized
at the same time, great anxiety is shown by the people lest the girls should take the precedence
of the boys; in which case it is believed the latter, when arrived at man's estate, would be
beardless.

E.H.A.

Rushbearing (Vol. i., p 259.).--Wednesday, July 21, 1847, Grasmere Church was decorated with
ribbons, which had some reference to the rushbearing which had taken place on the preceding Sunday.

It takes place at Ambleside one Sunday later.

Extract from Black's "Guide to the Lakes," p. 43.

    "An interesting ceremony takes place at Ambleside once every
    year, which the stranger may think himself fortunate in seeing,
    not so much for the mere sight itself, though that is pretty
    enough, as for its being the vestige of a very ancient
    observance. The ceremony alluded to is called Rushbearing. On
    the eve of the last Sunday in July, the village girls walk in
    procession to the chapel bearing garlands of flowers (formerly
    rushes), which are there tastefully disposed. After service, the
    day following, these are removed, and it is usual that a sermon,
    in allusion to the event, be preached. In former
    times, the rushes were spread upon the floor of the sacred
    edifice, and the garlands remained until withered. Possibly the
    practice of covering the floors of buildings with rushes by way
    of protection against the damp earth, may have had something to
    do with keeping the custom in existence, long after the origin
    of the institution had been forgotten. The ceremony of
    Rushbearing has now fallen into complete disuse, except in a few
    secluded hamlets in Westmoreland, and in one or two other places
    in the kingdom; nor can that disuse be much regretted, since
    what was founded as a religious act, every where degenerated
    into an occasion for unseemly revelry, in fact, into a sort of
    rustic saturnalia. And yet, when we look at this remain of the
    olden time, as observed at Ambleside, we are tempted to say with
    the poet,--

                  "'Many precious rites
      And customs of our rural ancestry
      Are gone or stealing from us: this, I hope
      Will last for ever.'"

       *       *       *       *       * {198}

QUERIES.

WHO WROTE SHAKSPEARE'S HENRY VIII.?

I had no sooner read the title of an essay in the current number of the Gentleman's Magazine,
"Who wrote Shakspeare's Henry VIII.?" than I became aware that I had been anticipated in at
least the publication of a discovery I made three or four years ago, but for the making known
of which a favourable opportunity had not occurred. The fact is, that I was anxious to arrive
at a more satisfactory conclusion than has yet presented itself to me, and a paper on the subject
commenced more than two years ago, I, with this feeling, laid aside. My present object is to
strengthen the argument of the writer in the Gentleman's Magazine, by recording the fact that
I, having no communication with him, or knowledge of him, even of his name, should have arrived
at exactly the same conclusion as his own. That conclusion is (should any of your readers not
have seen the article referred to), that Fletcher has at least an equal claim with Shakspeare
to the authorship of Henry VIII.

In the unfinished paper to which I have alluded, having asked how it was that, with so much
to be learned personal to Shakspeare from his works, our criticism was so limited, and having
stated it to be my intention to confine myself to the simple inquiry, "What did Shakspeare
really write?" I continued:

    "To those who consider the text as having been settled 'by
    authority,' this question may seem superfluous; but, not to
    refer to plays of very early date, in connection with which we
    could bring forward facts that, we doubt not, would be
    considered sufficiently startling; we now state it as our belief
    that a great portion of the play of Henry VIII.--nay, more
    than half, was not written by Shakspeare."

My intention now is not to enter into any argument in support of this view, but to state the
results, which will be shown in the following extract from my note-book:

Henry VIII.
Act I.  Scene 1. Shakspeare.
           "  2.    Ditto.
           "  3. Fletcher.
           "  4.    Ditto.
Act II.    "  1.    Ditto.
           "  2.    Ditto.
           "  3. Shakspeare.
           "  4.    Ditto.
Act III.   "  1. Fletcher.
           "  2. Shakspeare, (ending with 'what
                                appetite you have.')
           "  2. Fletcher, (beginning from the
                                            above.)
Act IV.    "  1.    Ditto.
           "  2.    Ditto.
Act V.  Scene 1. Shakspeare
           "  2. Fletcher.
           "  3.    Ditto.
           "  4.    Ditto.
Prologue and Epilogue, Ditto.

So far all is clear, and in this apportionment Mr. Urban's correspondent and myself are agreed.
My conviction here is as complete as it is of my own identity. But beyond, at present, all
is dark; I cannot understand the arrangement; and I doubt if my friend, who has treated the
question with so much ability, is altogether satisfied with his own explanation.

In the meanwhile, I would suggest one or two points for consideration. In those parts which
I have set down as Shakspeare's, and in which this writer imagines he occasionally detects
"a third hand," does the metre differ materially from that of Shakspeare's early plays?

It will be observed that, in Act iii., Scene 2., there are two farewells, the second being
a kind of amplification of the first; both, however, being in the part which I ascribe to Fletcher.
Is it not probable that these were written at different periods? And supposing Fletcher to
have improved his part, might there not originally have been a stronger analogy than now appears
between this play and the Two Noble Kinsmen?

The more it is tested the brighter shines out the character of Shakspeare. The flatteries of
James and Elizabeth may now go packing together. The following four lines which I have met
with in no other edition of Shakspeare than Mr. Collier's, are worth any one of his plays for
their personal value; they show how he could evade a compliment with the enunciation of a general
truth that yet could be taken as a compliment by the person for whom it was intended:

  Shakspeare on the King.

Samuel Hickson.

August 12. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

The Abbé Strickland.--In the third volume of the Castlereagh Correspondence, an Abbé Strickland
figures as a negotiator between the English Catholics and the court of Rome. His name is also
mentioned unfavourably in the "Quarterly" review of that work. Will some of your readers direct
me where further information can be had of him, and his ultimate destination?

J.W.H. {199}

Aerostation, Works on.--Will you have the goodness to inquire for me among your readers and
contributors, for the titles of any works on--or references to good articles in encyclopaedias
or dictionaries on--or for remarkable isolated passages relating to--Aerostation, or the arts
of, or attempts at, flying, either by means of mechanical wings, &c., or by the aid of balloons.

C.B.M.

Pilgrims' Road to Canterbury.--Can any of the readers of "Notes and Queries" point out the
route which was pursued by Chaucer and his fellow-travellers on the pilgrimage which his genius
has immortalised? Is the route of the old pilgrims' road laid down upon any early maps? (it
is not, I believe, marked on the Ordnance Survey;) and would it be possible to traverse it
at the present time? Any hints upon these points, and any references to objects of interest
on the line of road inquired after, will be thankfully received by

Philo-Chaucer.

"Ædricus qui signa fundebat."--In a chronicle of Battel Abbey, compiled in the twelfth century,
there is a list of the abbey's tenants in the town of Battel. Among many such names as Gilbertus
Textor, Godwinus Cocus, Rotbertus filius Siflet, Rotbertus de Havena, I find that of "Ædricus
qui signa fundebat." As this phrase is susceptible of several widely different renderings,
I shall be grateful to any of your ingenious readers who will give me their opinions as to
its actual meaning. I may add that Ædric was living about the year 1170, so that the phrase
can have no reference to events connected with the battle of Hastings.

M.A. Lower.

Lewes, July 30. 1850.

Osmund the Waterman.--In his description of the Flowering Fern (Osmunda regalis), Mr. Newman
observes, that "the rhizoma [root-stock], when cut through, has a whitish centre or core, called
by old Gerarde in his Herbal, 'the heart of Osmund the waterman.' My lore is insufficient to
furnish my readers with the history of the said Osmund." (History of British Ferns, by Ed.
Newman, 2nd ed., p. 334.) Can any of your readers supply this deficiency?

J.M.B.

