It is one of the few countries in the world, and they grow fewer each year, which is still
unexplored--unknown. Thousands of square miles in Morocco have never been crossed by a European,
or at any rate none have returned to tell the tale: maps mark only blank spaces, and have no
names for villages, no records of mountains or rivers: there are no roads, still less railways,
in the country: the only means of transport along the wild, worn tracks is by camels, mules,
and donkeys: he who will not ride perforce walks.

The bare fringe alone of Morocco, its coast towns, and the choice, let us say, of two roads
connecting them with its capitals, Fez and Morocco City, are open to travellers; beyond these
limits it is difficult and dangerous for Europeans to venture. Of even its coasts towns England
knows little enough: a daily paper printed in 1902 describes one flourishing seaport of thirty
thousand inhabitants as "a village." There is more vagueness, in fact, about a country three
times the size of Great Britain and four days' journey from London than of many a remote corner
in the heart of Asia.

The reason is at hand. An old Arabic proverb, "The earth is a peacock: Morocco is the tail
of it," typifies the entire satisfaction of its inhabitants with their native land. What is,
is good; why "civilize" and "progress"? As far as possible there shall no European enter therein.
Realizing that, were new blood allowed to come into Morocco, its own effete and uneducated
people would have no chance in the race of life, and end by hopelessly knuckling under to the
European, the country isolates itself; nor is it likely that the jealous Powers of Europe will
allow any one of their number to disturb that isolation and pluck the tempting fruit.

And so to-day Morocco drowses in an atmosphere of laissez faire, a decadent nation, a collection
of lawless tribes, who have changed little for the last two thousand years, living still much
after the manner of Old Testament days. They are devout Mussulmans. They believe the world
to be flat, and to come to an end with the west coast of Morocco. Their country they call El
Moghreb el Aksa, which means, "The Extreme West," or "The Land of the Setting Sun": "Morocco"
and "Moors" are entirely European words, and never used by the Moors themselves--the one being
a corruption of the name of their capital city, the other having been given them by the Spaniards.

Morocco should be fascinating on the face of it: a great country running into hundreds of thousands
of square miles, the only independent Mussulman state of North Africa, with six million followers
of the great Prophet, and a perfect climate, soil, and water-supply to boot, needs no extolling.
And yet its chiefest fascination lies in things which, from some points of view, ought not to be.

Its remote removal from all appertaining to the twentieth century, its strangely simple, untaught
life, the solemn, stately men, the veiled women and their eyes, the steely blue cactus, the
white cities and the glaring light, the mystery and the fatalism which intensify the air, are
alike oddly inevitable and incomprehensible to a European. The other side of the closed door
has always constituted, for the wandering vagrants among mankind, their hearts' desire. For
them there is still Morocco; and the door will be shut in their faces again and again by a
people and a faith and customs which they can never understand. And though it be useless they
will still go on, because it seems the best thing.

