Some thinkers have proclaimed change to be the deepest manifestation of reality, while others
have insisted upon something abiding behind a world of flux. The question whether change or
permanence is more essential arose early in Greek philosophy. Heraclitus was the first one
to see in change a deeper significance than in the permanence of the Eleatics. A more dramatic
opposition than the one which ensued between the Heracliteans and the Eleatics can scarcely
be imagined--both schools claiming a monopoly of reason and truth, both distrusting the senses,
and each charging the other with illusion. Now the significance of Hegel's philosophy can be
grasped only when we bear in mind that it was just this profound distinction between the permanent
and the changing that Hegel sought to understand and to interpret. He saw more deeply into
the reality of movement and change than any other philosopher before or after him.

Very early in his life, judging by the recently published writings of his youth, Hegel became
interested in various phases of movement and change. The vicissitudes of his own inner or outer
life he did not analyze. He was not given to introspection. Romanticism and mysticism were
foreign to his nature. His temperament was rather that of the objective thinker. Not his own
passions, hopes, and fears, but those of others invited his curiosity. With an humane attitude,
the young Hegel approached religious and historical problems. The dramatic life and death of
Jesus, the tragic fate of "the glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was Rome," the discrepancies
between Christ's teachings and the positive Christian religion, the fall of paganism and the
triumph of the Christian Church--these were the problems over which the young Hegel pondered.
Through an intense study of these problems, he discovered that evil, sin, longing, and suffering
are woven into the very tissue of religious and historical processes, and that these negative
elements determine the very meaning and progress of history and religion. Thereupon he began
a systematic sketch of a philosophy in which a negative factor was to be recognized as the
positive vehicle in the development of the whole world. And thus his genius came upon a method
which revealed to him an orderly unfolding in the world with stages of relative values, the
higher developing from the lower, and all stages constituting an organic whole.

The method which the young Hegel discovered empirically, and which the mature rationalist applied
to every sphere of human life and thought, is the famous Dialectical Method. This method is,
in general, nothing else than the recognition of the necessary presence of a negative factor
in the constitution of the world. Everything in the world--be it a religious cult or a logical
category, a human passion or a scientific law--is, so Hegel holds, the result of a process
which involves the overcoming of a negative element. Without such an element to overcome, the
world would indeed be an inert and irrational affair. That any rational and worthy activity
entails the encounter of opposition and the removal of obstacles is an observation commonplace
enough. A preëstablished harmony of foreseen happy issues--a fool's paradise--is scarcely our
ideal of a rational world. Just as a game is not worth playing when its result is predetermined
by the great inferiority of the opponent, so life without something negative to overcome loses
its zest. But the process of overcoming is not anything contingent; it operates according to
a uniform and universal law. And this law constitutes Hegel's most central doctrine--his doctrine
of Evolution.

In order to bring this doctrine into better relief, it may be well to contrast it superficially
with the Darwinian theory of transformation. In general, Hegel's doctrine is a concept of value,
Darwin's is not. What Darwinians mean by evolution is not an unfolding of the past, a progressive
development of a hierarchy of phases, in which the later is superior and organically related
to the earlier. No sufficient criterion is provided by them for evaluating the various stages
in the course of an evolutionary process. The biologist's world would probably have been just
as rational if the famous ape-like progenitor of man had chanced to become his offspring-assuming
an original environment favorable for such transformation. Some criterion besides the mere
external and accidental "struggle for existence" and "survival of the fittest" must be furnished
to account for a progressive evolution. Does the phrase "survival of the fittest" say much
more than that those who happen to survive are the fittest, or that their survival proves their
fitness? But that survival itself is valuable: that it is better to be alive than dead; that
existence has a value other than itself; that what comes later in the history of the race or
of the universe is an advance over what went before-that, in a word, the world is subject to
an immanent development, only a comprehensive and systematic philosophy can attempt to show.

The task of Hegel's whole philosophy consists in showing, by means of one uniform principle,
that the world manifests everywhere a genuine evolution. Unlike the participants in the biological
"struggle for existence," the struggling beings of Hegel's universe never end in slaying, but
in reconciliation. Their very struggle gives birth to a new being which includes them, and
this being is "higher" in the scale of existence, because it represents the preservation of
two mutually opposed beings. Only where conflicts are adjusted, oppositions overcome, negations
removed, is there advance, in Hegel's sense; and only where there is a passage from the positive
through its challenging negative to a higher form inclusive of both is there a case of real
development.

The ordinary process of learning by experience illustrates somewhat Hegel's meaning. An individual
finds himself, for instance, in the presence of a wholly new situation that elicits an immediate,
definite reaction. In his ignorance, he chooses the wrong mode of behavior. As a consequence,
trouble ensues; feelings are hurt, pride is wounded, motives are misconstrued. Embittered and
disappointed with himself, he experiences great mental sorrow. But he soon learns to see the
situation in its true light; he condemns his deed and offers to make amends. And after the
wounds begin to heal again, the inner struggles experienced commence to assume a positive worth.
They have led him to a deeper insight into his own motives, to a better self-comprehension.
And he finally comes forth from the whole affair enriched and enlightened. Now in this formal
example, to which any content may be supplied, three phases can be distinguished. First, we
have the person as he meant to be in the presence of the new situation, unaware of trouble.
Then, his wrong reaction engendered a hostile element. He was at war with himself; he was not
what he meant to be. And finally, he returned to himself richer and wiser, including within
himself the negative experience as a valuable asset in the advance of his development.

This process of falling away from oneself, of facing oneself as an enemy whom one reconciles
to and includes in one's larger self, is certainly a familiar process. It is a process just
like this that develops one's personality. However the self may be defined metaphysically,
it is for every self-conscious individual a never-ceasing battle with conflicting motives and
antagonistic desires--a never-ending cycle of endeavor, failure, and success through the very
agency of failure.

A more typical instance of this rhythmic process is Hegel's view of the evolution of religion.
Religion, in general, is based on a dualism which it seeks to overcome. Though God is in heaven
and man on earth, religion longs to bridge the gulf which separates man and God. The religions
of the Orient emphasize God's infinity. God is everything, man is nothing. Like an Oriental
prince, God is conceived to have despotic sway over man, his creature. Only in contemplating
God's omnipotence and his own nothingness can man find solace and peace. Opposed to this religion
of the infinite is the finite religion of Greece.

Man in Greece stands in the centre of a beautiful cosmos which is not alien to his spirit.
The gods on high, conceived after the likeness of man, are the expression of a free people
conscious of their freedom. And the divinities worshiped, under the form of Zeus, Apollo, Aphrodite--what
are they but idealized and glorified Greeks? Can a more complete antithesis be imagined? But
Christianity becomes possible after this struggle only, for in Christianity is contained both
the principle of Oriental infinity and the element of Hellenic finitude, for in a being who
is both God and man--a God-man--the gulf between the infinite and finite is bridged. The Christian,
like the Greek, worships man--Jesus; but this man is one with the eternal being of the Orient.
Because it is the outcome of the Oriental and Greek opposition, the Christian religion is,
in Hegel's sense, a higher one. Viewing the Oriental and the Hellenic religions historically
in terms of the biological "struggle for existence," the extinction of neither has resulted.
The Christian religion is the unity of these two struggling opposites; in it they are conciliated
and preserved. And this for Hegel is genuine evolution.

That evolution demands a union of opposites seems at first paradoxical enough. To say that
Christianity is a religion of both infinity and finitude means nothing less than that it contains
a contradiction. Hegel's view, strange as it may sound, is just this: everything includes a
contradiction in it, everything is both positive and negative, everything expresses at once
its Everlasting Yea and its Everlasting No. The negative character of the world is the very
vehicle of its progress. Life and activity mean the triumph of the positive over the negative,
a triumph which results from absorbing and assimilating it. The myth of the Phoenix typifies
the life of reason "eternally preparing for itself," as Hegel says, "a funeral pile, and consuming
itself upon it; but so that from its ashes it produces the new, renovated, fresh life." That
the power of negativity enters constitutively into the rationality of the world, nay, that
the rationality of the world demands negativity in it, is Hegel's most original contribution
to thought. His complete philosophy is the attempt to show in detail that the whole universe
and everything it contains manifests the process of uniformly struggling with a negative power,
and is an outcome of conflicting, but reconciled forces. An impressionistic picture of the
world's eternal becoming through this process is furnished by the first of Hegel's great works,
the Phenomenology of Spirit. The book is, in a sense, a cross-section of the entire spiritual
world. It depicts the necessary unfolding of typical phases of the spiritual life of mankind.
Logical categories, scientific laws, historical epochs, literary tendencies, religious processes,
social, moral, and artistic institutions, all exemplify the same onward movement through a
union of opposites. There is eternal and total instability everywhere. But this unrest and
instability is of a necessary and uniform nature, according to the one eternally fixed principle
which renders the universe as a whole organic and orderly.

Organic Wholeness! This phrase contains the rationale of the restless flow and the evanescent
being of the Hegelian world. It is but from the point of view of the whole that its countless
conflicts, discrepancies, and contradictions can be understood. As the members of the body
find only in the body as a whole their raison d'être, so the manifold expressions of the world
are the expressions of one organism. A hand which is cut off, as Hegel somewhere remarks, still
looks like a hand, and exists; but it is not a real hand. Similarly any part of the world,
severed from its connection with the whole, any isolated historical event, any one religious
view, any particular scientific explanation, any single social body, any mere individual person,
is like an amputated bodily organ. Hegel's view of the world as organic depends upon exhibiting
the partial and abstract nature of other views. In his Phenomenology a variety of interpretations
of the world and of the meaning and destiny of life are scrutinized as to their adequacy and
concreteness. When not challenged, the point of view of common sense, for instance, seems concrete
and natural. The reaction of common sense to the world is direct and practical, it has few
questions to ask, and philosophic speculations appear to it abstract and barren. But, upon
analysis, it is the common sense view that stands revealed as abstract and barren. For an abstract
object is one that does not fully correspond to the rich and manifold reality; it is incomplete
and one-sided.

Precisely such an object is the world of common sense. Its concreteness is ignorance. There
are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of by common sense. Its work-a-day world
is not even a faint reflex of the vast and complex universe. It sees but the immediate, the
obvious, the superficial. So instead of being concrete, it is, in truth, the very opposite.
Nor is empirical science with its predilection for "facts" better off. Every science able to
cope with a mere fragmentary aspect of the world and from a partial point of view, is forced
to ignore much of the concrete content of even its own realm. Likewise, art and religion, though
in their views more synthetic and therefore more concrete, are one-sided; they seek to satisfy
special needs. Philosophy alone--Hegelian philosophy--is concrete. Its aim is to interpret
the world in its entirety and complexity, its ideal is to harmonize the demands of common sense,
the interests of science, the appeal of art, and the longing of religion into one coherent
whole. This view of philosophy, because it deals with the universe in its fulness and variety,
alone can make claim to real concreteness. Nor are the other views false. They form for Hegel
the necessary rungs on the ladder which leads up to his own philosophic vision. Thus the Hegelian
vision is itself an organic process, including all other interpretations of life and of the
world as its necessary phases. In the immanent unfolding of the Hegelian view is epitomized
the onward march and the organic unity of the World-Spirit itself.

The technical formulation of this view is contained in his Logic. This book may indeed be said
to be Hegel's master-stroke. Nothing less is attempted in it than the proof that the very process
of reasoning manifests the same principle of evolution through a union of opposites. Hegel
was well aware, as much as recent exponents of anti-intellectualism, that through "static"
concepts we transmute and falsify the "fluent" reality. A concept means a that-and-no-other."
But are our concepts static, fixed, and discontinuous? What if the very concepts we employ
in reasoning should exemplify the universal flow of life? Hegel finds that indeed to be the
case. Concepts we daily use, such as quality and quantity, essence and phenomenon, appearance
and reality, matter and force, cause and effect, are not fixed and isolated entities, but form
a continuous system of interdependent elements. Stated dogmatically the meaning is this: As
concavity and convexity are inseparably connected, though one is the very opposite of the other--as
one cannot, so to speak, live without the other, both being always found in union--so can no
concept be discovered that is not thus wedded to its contradiction. Every concept develops,
upon analysis, a stubbornly negative mate. No concept is statable or definable without its
opposite; one involves the other. One cannot speak of motion without implying rest; one cannot
mention the finite without at the same time referring to the infinite; one cannot define cause
without explicitly defining effect. Not only is this true, but concepts, when applied, reveal
perpetual oscillation. Take the terms "north" and "south." The mention of the north pole, for
example, implies at once the south pole also; it can be distinguished only by contrast with
the other, which it thus includes. But it is a north pole only by excluding the south pole
from itself--by being itself and not merely what the other is not. The situation is paradoxical
enough: Each aspect--the negative or the positive--of anything appears to exclude the other,
while each requires its own other for its very definition and expression. It needs the other,
and yet is independent of it. How Hegel proves this of all concepts, cannot here be shown.
The result is that no concept can be taken by itself as a "that-and-no-other." It is perpetually
accompanied by its "other" as man is by his shadow. The attempt to isolate any logical category
and regard it as fixed and stable thus proves futile. Each category--to show this is the task
of Hegel's Logic--is itself an organism, the result of a process which takes place within its
inner constitution. And all logical categories, inevitably used in describing and explaining
our world, form one system of interdependent and organically related parts. Hegel begins with
an analysis of a concept that most abstractly describes reality, follows it through its countless
conflicts and contradictions, and finally reaches the highest category which, including all
the foregoing categories in organic unity, is alone adequate to characterize the universe as
an organism. What these categories are and what Hegel's procedure is in showing their necessary
sequential development, can here not even be hinted at.

That the logical development of the categories of thought is the same as the historical evolution
of life--and vice versa--establishes for Hegel the identity of thought and reality. In the
history of philosophy, the discrepancy between thought and reality has often been emphasized.
There are those who insist that reality is too vast and too deep for man with his limited vision
to penetrate; others, again, who set only certain bounds to man's understanding, reality consisting,
they hold, of knowable and unknowable parts; and others still who see in the very shifts and
changes of philosophic and scientific opinion the delusion of reason and the illusiveness of
reality. The history of thought certainly does present an array of conflicting views concerning
the limits of human reason. But all the contradictions and conflicts of thought prove to Hegel
the sovereignty of reason. The conflicts of reason are its own necessary processes and expressions.
Its dialectic instability is instability that is peculiar to all reality. Both thought and
reality manifest one nature and one process. Hence reason with its "dynamic" categories can
comprehend the "fluent" reality, because it is flesh of its flesh and bone of its bone. Hegel's
bold and oft quoted words "What is rational is real; and what is real is rational," pithily
express his whole doctrine. The nature of rationality and the nature of reality are, for Hegel,
one and the same spiritual process, the organic process of triumphing over and conquering conflicts
and contradictions. Where reality conforms to this process it is rational (that which does
not conform to it is not reality at all, but has, like an amputated leg, mere contingent existence);
the logical formula of this process is but an abstract account of what reality is in its essence.

The equation of the real and the rational, or the discovery of one significant process underlying
both life and reason, led Hegel to proclaim a new kind of logic, so well characterized by Professor
Royce as the "logic of passion." To repeat what has been said above, this means that categories
are related to one another as historical epochs, as religious processes, as social and moral
institutions, nay, as human passions, wills, and deeds are related to one another. Mutual conflict
and contradiction appear as their sole constant factor amid all their variable conditions.
The introduction of contradiction into logical concepts as their sine qua non meant indeed
a revolutionary departure from traditional logic. Prior to Hegel, logical reasoning was reasoning
in accordance with the law of contradiction, i. e., with the assumption that nothing can have
at the same time and at the same place contradictory and inconsistent qualities or elements.
For Hegel, on the contrary, contradiction is the very moving principle of the world, the pulse
of its life. Alle Dinge sind an sich selbst widersprechend, as he drastically says. The deeper
reason why Hegel invests contradiction with a positive value lies in the fact that, since the
nature of everything involves the union of discrepant elements, nothing can bear isolation
and independence. Terms, processes, epochs, institutions, depend upon one another for their
meaning, expression, and existence; it is impossible to take anything in isolation. But this
is just what one does in dealing with the world in art or in science, in religion or in business;
one is always dealing with error and contradiction, because one is dealing with fragments or
bits of life and experience. Hence--and this is Hegel's crowning thought--anything short of
the whole universe is inevitably contradictory. In brief, contradiction has the same sting
for Hegel as it has for any one else. Without losing its nature of "contradictoriness," contradiction
has logically this positive meaning. Since it is an essential element of every partial, isolated,
and independent view of experience and thought, one is necessarily led to transcend it and
to see the universe in organic wholeness.

Thus, as Hegel puts his fundamental idea, "the truth is the whole." Neither things nor categories,
neither histories nor religions, neither sciences nor arts, express or exhaust by themselves
the whole essence of the universe. The essence of the universe is the life of the totality
of all things, not their sum. As the life of man is not the sum of his bodily and mental functions,
the whole man being present in each and all of these, so must the universe be conceived as
omnipresent in each of its parts and expressions. This is the significance of Hegel's conception
of the universe as an organism. The World-Spirit--Hegel's God--constitutes, thinks, lives,
wills, and is all in unity. The evolution of the universe is thus the evolution of God himself.

The task of philosophy, then, as Hegel conceives it, is to portray in systematic form the evolution
of the World-Spirit in all its necessary ramifications. These ramifications themselves are
conceived as constituting complete wholes, such as logic, nature, mind, society, history, art,
religion, philosophy, so that the universe in its onward march through these is represented
as a Whole of Wholes--ein Kreis von Kreisen. In Hegel's complete philosophy each of these special
spheres finds its proper place and elaborate treatment.

