Three large canoes, each of which contained some of the chief people of the kingdom, approached.
Canopies were spread from one end of the canoes to the other, of fine mats supported on a framework
of reeds. The occupants were attired in white linen or cloth of Calicut, each person seated
in order according to his rank, the white heads of some of them showing the wisdom of the King
in employing grave and reverend councillors.  Besides them were a number of young, handsome-looking
men, who, also attired in white, stood under the canopy, but showing, from the places they
occupied, that they were of inferior rank.  Round them, again, were arranged soldiers, neat
and orderly, with their arms brightly polished.  On the galleries on the outside of the state
barge sat the rowers, in three ranks, each canoe having eight.  At the head of the canoe sat
two men, one holding a drum and the other a brass instrument, with which they struck time to
direct the rowers.  In the bow also was a handsome brass cannon of about a yard in length,
and each man, except the rowers, had his sword, dagger, and shield, some of them carrying other
weapons, such as guns, lances, bows, and darts.

As these magnificently equipped barges came near the ship, they rowed round and round, one
following the other, the chief persons in them bowing low as they did so, in token of homage.
They then put the former envoy on board, who signified that the King was coming, and desired
that a hawser might be sent to the barges, in order that they might tow the ship into a better
berth.

As the Golden Hind went gliding on, the King himself came off in a handsome barge, richly ornamented,
accompanied by six grave and ancient fathers, and as he approached he also bowed towards the
ship in a far more humble way than could have been expected.  He was a tall, very corpulent
man, of a pleasant and handsome countenance.  So great was the respect shown him, that even
the chief councillors did not speak to him except on their knees.  Drake, wishing to do all
the honour in his power to the King, and highly pleased at the confidence he exhibited, ordered
the ordnance to be fired, the trumpets to sound, and the band to strike up a lively tune.

This delighted the King so much that he requested the band to come into a boat, which was towed
by his barge for a whole hour together.  Drake, to strengthen the friendship thus commenced,
sent a variety of presents to the King, who had in the meantime dispatched a messenger to bring
his brother, named Moro.  The latter soon appeared, accompanied by a number of followers, all
handsomely dressed, in barges as magnificent as those of the King.

His Majesty now expressed his wish to return on shore, saying that he would come back the next
day, and before night he sent on board rice, sugar-canes, and sugar in various forms, fowls,
plantains, cocoa-nuts, and sago, now first known to the English.  They might also have obtained
any amount of cloves, but Drake did not wish further to load his ship.

The Admiral was expecting the arrival of the King, when Prince Moro came with apologies, saying
that if Drake would go ashore he himself would remain as a hostage.  To this, however, all
the officers were greatly averse, suspecting treachery, and he therefore determined to send
several of them with Prince Moro, retaining the Viceroy of Motir as a hostage.

On landing they were courteously received by a large number of persons of rank in handsome
dresses, and were conducted to the palace.  This was a four-sided building, the centre canopied
by a cloth of many colours, such as tents are made of.  All the way round it were cushioned
seats. It was the usual council-house, and not used for any other purpose.  On one side was
the chair of state, placed on a handsome carpet, having over it a very beautiful and rich canopy.

As the King did not make his appearance for an hour, the officers had time to examine things
at their leisure.  Before he appeared, about threescore noble, grave, and ancient personages
entered and took their seats round the building, while at the farther end were a large number
of richly dressed young men.  Outside stood four fine-looking white-headed persons clothed
in red robes reaching to the ground, having turbans on their heads similar to the Turks.  They
were, it was understood, strangers, but long resident in the country.  Two of them were Turks,
one an Italian, and the last a Spaniard, who had been rescued from the Portuguese.

At length the King appeared, followed by ten grave senators, walking under a rich canopy embossed
with gold, and guarded by twelve men armed with lances, the points turned downwards.

The officers, accompanied by Prince Moro, rose to meet him.  He received them graciously. 
He was dressed like his countrymen, but far more sumptuously.  His garments from the waist
downward were of cloth of gold of the richest description; his legs were bare, but on his feet
he wore red slippers; his head-dress was a sort of turban twisted through wide gold rings,
and somewhat resembled a crown.  Round his neck he wore a massive gold chain; on his left hand
four magnificent rings, adorned by a diamond, an emerald, a ruby, and a turquoise; and on his
right an unusually large turquoise in one ring, and in another ring many diamonds of a smaller
size artistically arranged.

While he sat in his chair of state, on his right side stood a page holding a large fan, richly
embroidered and set with sapphires, with which he constantly fanned his master.  The heat was
excessive, both on account of the sun's rays and the number of persons assembled.

The officers, having delivered their message, received permission to take their departure.
Before retiring to the boats, they had time to examine the castle, which was very ill fortified.
It had only two guns, which had been captured from the Portuguese, and they were not mounted.
The present King had lately succeeded his father, who had been killed by the Portuguese.  Having
driven them out of the country, he greatly increased his strength, and was contemplating an
attack on Tidore, from which he hoped to expel them.

While the Golden Hind remained off Ternate, a stranger came on board, very well dressed, and
of courteous manners.  He described himself as a Chinese, related to the Emperor of China.
He said that being accused of a crime of which he was innocent, he thought it prudent to quit
his country and travel, after having obtained permission from the King, that should he bring
back anything curious, he should obtain his pardon.

Having described the unbounded wealth of China, he entreated Drake to visit the country before
returning to Europe.  Drake, however, having already more than wealth enough on board his ship,
and wishing to get back to England as soon as possible, declined his offer.

On the 9th of November, having shipped all necessary stores and provisions, the Golden Hind
proceeded on her voyage.  It was necessary, however, before she could attempt to cross the
wide expanse of the Indian Ocean, and to encounter the storms off Cape Horn and in the Atlantic,
which might be expected, to careen and thoroughly repair her.  On the 14th, therefore, they
anchored at a convenient spot near an uninhabited island off the east coast of Celebes.  The
first thing they did was to pitch their tents, and entrench themselves as strongly as they
could on the shore, lest any of the inhabitants of the larger island in view might attack them.
After having thus provided for their security, they landed the cargo and set up a smith's forge.
As all their coals were spent, before they could use it, they had to manufacture charcoal.

The place was remarkably healthy, and those who had hitherto been sickly quickly recovered
their strength.  The island was thickly wooded with trees of great height.  Among them fire-flies
in vast numbers were seen flitting, at night every twig on the trees appearing as if lighted
up by stars.

They also saw what they took to be huge bats, which moved rapidly through the air with short
flights.  When they alighted they hung on the boughs, with their backs downwards.  They also
found, in vast numbers, large land crabs, which lived in colonies under the roots of trees,
but never, as far as they could see, entered the water.  They accordingly called this place
Crab Island.

All necessary repairs being completed, the Golden Hind sailed on the 12th of December, directing
her course westward.  When off the coast of Celebes, she became entangled among reefs and shoals,
from out of which it required the greatest possible care to find a free passage.  Here they
were sailing, now in one direction, now in another, until the 9th of January, when, a favourable
breeze springing up, they believed that they had extricated themselves from their dangerous
position, and that they had an open sea before them.  They were running under all sail, when,
in the beginning of the first night watch, a loud grating sound was heard,--the masts quivered:
the Golden Hind had run hard and fast on a rock.  No land was in sight; there appeared no hopes
of getting her off.  Like pious men as they were, of a sort, they fell down on their knees
and implored God's protection.  They then rose,--their brave Admiral setting the example,--and
bestirred themselves to see what could be done.  The pumps were tried and quickly sucked dry,
showing that the hull of the Golden Hind was sound.

It was now deemed important to carry an anchor out to seaward, but before doing so a boat was
lowered, into which the Admiral leaped, undertaking the charge of sounding all round the ship;
but even at a boat's length from her no bottom was found to which a cable could reach. She
appeared fixed hard and fast, and should any sea get up she must inevitably quickly go to pieces.

Of this all were thoroughly convinced, although, Drake and his officers setting the example,
all manfully kept up their spirits.  Their boat could not carry more than twenty persons at
once with safety, while the whole company consisted of fifty-eight, and the land was six leagues
from them, the wind being directly off shore.  At first it was proposed to send one boat-load
on shore, but there was the risk of their falling into the hands of the savage inhabitants.
Anxiously they awaited the return of day.  It came at length.  They forthwith made another
attempt to carry out an anchor, but no holding ground was found.  They were apparently on the
very pinnacle of a rock.  It was the top of high water.  There appeared every probability that,
when the tide became lower, the ship would fall over on her bilge and be destroyed.

Again they took to praying, and, after a short address by the Admiral and chaplain, they all
together partook of the sacrament.  Then, lest they should be guilty of not using all lawful
means to free themselves from their danger, they commenced unloading the ship by casting all
the goods they could lay their hands on into the sea.

Powder and shot and provisions were hove overboard, for they trusted that, should God permit
the ship once more to float, He would not allow them to fall into the hands of their enemies,
or to perish from want of food.  The tide continued to fall, but the breeze blew strongly against
the side which was inclined towards the rock, and kept the ship on an even keel, although,
at one time, on that side there was not more than seven feet of water, while she required thirteen
to float her.  The breeze increasing, she heeled over on the opposite side, where the water
was the deepest, and by this means, her keel tearing away the coral rock, she was suddenly
floated, at a moment no one expected, into deep water.  A shout of joy escaped the throats
of the gallant crew of the Golden Hind, nor did they forget to offer up their grateful thanks
to Heaven for their delivery.  This was the greatest danger they had hitherto encountered.
For many days afterwards, however, they were entangled among the reefs off the low coast of
Celebes.

On the 20th of January, Drake, desiring to come to an anchor, sent the boat a considerable
distance off, to look for a spot where he could bring up.  Before, however, she could return,
the ship was struck by a wind from the south-west, little short of a hurricane, by which the
sea was rapidly lashed into fury, endangering not only the boat, but the ship herself, for
she was now caught on a lee shore, off which it seemed impossible to beat.  Happily the violence
of the storm passed over, and the Golden Hind, picking up her boat, was able to ply off the
land. Although she got clear of that danger, for many days she was exposed to others of a similar
nature, and, being struck by another violent squall, it became necessary to furl all sail and
to run under bare poles.

On the 6th of February five islands were in sight, towards one of which they steered, and came
to an anchor.  Here they wooded and watered, and on the 8th, as they were again at sea, two
canoes were seen coming off to the ship.  The natives in them, who were fine-looking fellows,
but naked, with the exception of turbans on their heads and cloths round their loins, invited
them to come to their town of Barativa.

Piloted by the strangers, the Golden Hind steered on for the town. The inhabitants appeared
honest and hospitably inclined, and brought off a plentiful supply of nutmegs, pepper, lemons,
cucumbers, cocoa-nuts, figs, sago, and other fruits.  Indeed, they behaved in so kind and friendly
a way that the crew of the Golden Hind felt themselves safer and more at their ease than they
had at any place they had visited, with the exception of Ternate.

Two days were spent in recruiting their strength after their toil, and taking fresh provisions
on board.  Once more they sailed westward, and, after passing many other islands, on the 9th
of March came in sight of the large island of Java.  Drake, without hesitation, accompanied
by several of his officers, went on shore and presented himself to the King, by whom he was
cordially welcomed and entertained with music and a review of his troops.  They found that
this island was governed by a principal chief or Rajah, named Donan, who had under him several
other rajahs, each presiding over a certain district.  Scarcely a day passed that the Rajah
or some of his subordinates did not come on board.  They were invariably entertained by music
and the exhibition of those things which it was thought would be pleasing to them.

Rajah Donan, in return, entertained them with a concert of his national instruments, which
sounded strange in their ears; he likewise sent on board an ox.  Though these visits caused
some interruption, the crew, eager to prosecute their voyage, laboured hard in refitting and
cleaning the bottom of the ship, which was found to be covered with barnacles, greatly impeding
her sailing.

In all their transactions with these people they found them a mild and gentle race, honest
and just in their dealings.  Goats, hens, cocoa-nuts, plantains, and other kinds of fruits
were obtained.  The Golden Hind at length set sail from Java on the 26th of March, steering
west-south-west, directly for the Cape of Good Hope.

Thus, as they had passed over the Pacific, the bold mariners steered their course, day after
day the sea and sky alone in sight, until the 21st of May, when high rocky land was seen on
the starboard bow, which they well knew was the southern part of Africa.  They coasted along
until the 15th of June, when, with a smooth sea and gentle wind from the south-east, they passed
so near to the Cape that they might have sent a shot on shore from one of their guns.

Thus their experience differed greatly from that of the Portuguese, who had always represented
it as a cape of storms.  The crew of the Golden Hind suspected that they had done so for the
purpose of preventing other mariners from attempting to pass it.  The crew of the Golden Hind
had now proved that the dreaded cape could be rounded and the Straits of Magellan passed through
in safety.

For a whole month they did not again sight land until the 15th of June, when they passed Rio
de Sesto, where they saw some boats of negroes fishing, but did not communicate with them.
On the 22nd of the same month they came to an anchor off Sierra Leone, where, at the mouth
of the river Tagoine, they spent two days watering.  They were not a little astonished to see
countless numbers of oysters clinging to the branches of the mangrove-trees overhanging the
water.  These and plenty of lemons, which they found very wholesome and refreshing, were used
as food.

Once more the Golden Hind was at sea steering northward, the richest argosy which had ever
yet floated on the ocean.  The hearts of the gallant crew beat high as they neared their native
shores.  No longer fearing danger, even from revengeful Spaniards, they stood on until, greatly
to their joy, soundings were struck.  The well-known Land's End and the Start came in sight,
and on the 25th of September, 1580--Sunday, according to the reckoning on board--the Golden
Hind, after a voyage of two years and ten months, dropped her anchor in the harbour of Plymouth.

Great was the astonishment of the mariners when they found that the true day, with those who
had remained on shore, was Monday the 26th, they not being aware that they had lost a day by
the course they had steered, following the sun, and thereby gaining on him.

When the amount of wealth Drake had brought was known, his arrival was hailed throughout the
kingdom as an event of national importance; still more so by those who could best appreciate
the value of his great undertaking in having circumnavigated the globe, passed through the
Straits of Magellan, and made many most important discoveries.

There were those, however, who endeavoured to detract from his merits, and accused him merely
of being a successful pirate.  Others blamed him for having put the unhappy Doughty to death,
and many complained that his attack on the Spaniards would lay their mercantile marine at the
mercy of their enemies.

He was, notwithstanding the remarks of his detractors, graciously received at Court in private,
although the Queen thought it necessary to show him a certain amount of coldness in public.

So violent were the complaints made by the Spanish ambassador, that she sequestrated the treasure
brought home by the Golden Hind, and part of it was paid over to the Spanish agent, by whom
it was transmitted to Philip, and employed in supporting the Irish rebellion.  The Queen, however,
laughed at the complaints of the ambassador that the English had intruded into the South Sea,
observing that she knew not why her subjects and others should be prohibited from sailing to
the Indies, which she could not acknowledge to belong to the Spaniards by virtue of the Pope's
bull, for that could never oblige princes who owed him no obedience, nor by reason that the
Spaniards had arrived here and there, had erected cottages, and given names to capes and rivers.

A rupture with Spain becoming inevitable, Queen Elizabeth, throwing aside her simulated coldness,
received Drake openly, and expressed her admiration of his boldness, discretion, and brilliant
success.  The Golden Hind having been brought up to Deptford on the 4th of April, 1581, she
went on board in state, and Drake, who knew the tastes of his royal mistress, spared no pains
in preparing a worthy banquet.  Copies of Latin verses written by the Winchester scholars,
praising the Golden Hind and her commander, were nailed to the masts.  The banquet over, the
Queen conferred upon Drake the honour of knighthood, and issued orders that his ship should
be preserved as a monument of the glory of the nation and of the illustrious navigator.

After a residence of two or three years on shore, Sir Francis Drake put to sea in command of
a squadron destined to attack the Spaniards wherever they should be found.  Having captured
some small vessels, he surprised Saint Jago, the chief town of the Cape de Verde Islands, and
thence sailed for the Leeward Islands, after which he visited the principal town of San Domingo,
though less booty was obtained than was expected.

His next enterprise was directed against Carthagena, which was gallantly captured, the Governor,
Alonzo Bravo, being taken prisoner.  After a part of the city had been destroyed, a ransom
of thirty thousand pounds was accepted for the preservation of the latter.  The yellow fever,
however, broke out, and carried off numbers of the victorious Englishmen, so that projected
attempts on Nombre de Dios and Panama were abandoned, and the squadron sailed for the coast
of Florida.  Here two settlements, San Augustine and Santa Helena, were burned, and then, touching
at Virginia, Drake took on board the hapless survivors of the colony commenced the previous
year by Sir Walter Raleigh.

Though the booty obtained was insignificant, the dismantling of so many fortresses at the commencement
of the war was of importance.

This was the first of many services rendered by the great navigator. Rumours of an intended
invasion of England by the Spaniards, with their so-called Invincible Armada, induced the merchants
of London to fit out at their own expense twenty-six vessels of different sizes, which were
placed under the command of Drake.  To this squadron four ships and two pinnaces were added
by the Queen, the largest of which, named the Bonaventura, was commanded by Drake in person.

With this force, early in April, 1587, he sailed from Plymouth to look out for the Spaniards.
Hearing from the commanders of two Dutch vessels that a Spanish fleet was lying at Cadiz, about
to sail with stores and ammunition of all sorts, he steered for that port, and in the course
of one day and two nights destroyed shipping amounting to ten thousand tons.

This important service rendered, he gained information that the Saint Philipe, a Portuguese
carrack from the East Indies, was expected at Terceira, one of the Azores.  Though the crews
of the squadron were almost destitute of provisions, by threats and promises he induced them
to continue at sea, and ere long came in sight of and captured the richest prize ever yet taken;
but valuable as was her cargo, still more so were the papers found on board, for from them
the English merchants acquired so thorough a knowledge of the Indian trade, that they were
ere long able to found that profitable company which established the empire of Britain in the East.

Returning home, Sir Francis was in the following year appointed Vice-Admiral under Lord Howard
of Effingham.  Before long news came that the Spanish Armada was approaching the coast.

Who does not know how Drake, warping his ships out of Plymouth Harbour, attacked the haughty
Dons, hanging on their rear as they sailed vauntingly on, harassing, capturing, and destroying
them?  How he ran alongside a mighty galleon commanded by Don Pedro de Valdez, which at the
name of Drake surrendered without striking a blow?  How the navy of England did their part,
though Heaven gained them the victory?

