CONTENTS

       *       *       *       *       *

                                                           PAGE.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANHATTAN

LIFE INS. CO. OF NEW YORK,

156 and 158 Broadway.

THIRTY-THIRD YEAR.

DESCRIPTION--One of the oldest, strongest, best.

POLICIES--Incontestable, non-forfeitable, definite cash surrender values.

RATES--Safe, low, and participating or not, as desired.

RISKS carefully selected.

PROMPT, liberal dealing.

GENERAL AGENTS AND CANVASSERS WANTED in desirable territory, to whom permanent employment and
liberal compensation will be given.

Address

  H. STOKES, President.

  H. Y. WEMPLE, Sec'y.
  S. N. STEBBINS, Act'y.
  J. L. HALSEY, 1st V.-P.
  H. B. STOKES, 2d V.-P.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AMERICAN MISSIONARY.

VOL. XXXVIII.     JANUARY, 1884.     NO. 1.

       *       *       *       *       *

American Missionary Association.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another year. Are we ready for it, ready to work and to win? The harvest is still plenteous
and every increase of store is precious. Who can measure such privilege? And what of opportunities?
The swift-winged events of our civilization are continually hurrying us into the midst of them.
It is a day of speedy rewards. Christ comes quickly in these times. The business of the Church
is helped as absolutely as secular business by the development and use of material agencies
for advancement. What is wanted is the good seed of the word. It is that--the light which shines
forth from that--which gives life and growth and masterly power. We want faith in the promises.
It shall be said, "The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and His Christ."
The truth of it is not to be doubted or eclipsed. We want power from on high, and that is neither
distant nor subject to unseasonable delay. What the year shall be is for us, under God, to
determine. Let us labor and pray that the word of promise--the divine imbuement--may make rich
and fruitful, and place the great religious interests of our land on the foundation of God
which standeth sure.

       *       *       *       *       *

We devote considerable space in this number of the Missionary to the papers and reports presented
at the Woman's Meeting held in connection with our Annual Meeting in Brooklyn. The topics considered
related to the wide range of work conducted by this Association. They were treated by persons
having much experience in our mission fields, and will be welcomed not only as interesting
reading, but as furnishing authoritative data for the encouragement of the friends of our work.
The constitution proposed at the meeting, for Women's co-operative societies is given, and
is commended to the attention of those ladies who desire to aid mission work in our own country.

The valuable Paper on "Woman's Work in Modern Charity and Missions," read by Rev. A. H. Bradford
at our Annual Meeting, not published elsewhere, has been put in pamphlet form, with a view
to general distribution. We will be pleased to furnish copies gratuitously, in such numbers
as may be desired, to those wishing it for the promotion of woman's work.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are happy to report that the practice of paying for subscriptions for the American Missionary
is becoming more general year by year. This is as it should be. We try to make the Missionary
worth the price, which is fifty cents annually. We believe the information it contains is of
value to all, and that most of it cannot be found elsewhere. Will not our friends kindly aid
us in its circulation, remitting to our treasurer at once what may be gathered for that purpose?

       *       *       *       *       *

JOINT COMMITTEE.

The Joint Committee appointed by the American Home Missionary Society and the American Missionary
Association for the consideration of the relation between the two societies, met by adjournment
at Springfield, Mass., Dec. 11. The committee on the part of the A. H. M. S. consisted of Rev.
J. E. Twitchell, D.D., Rev. Lyman Abbott, D.D., Rev. Geo. L. Walker, D.D., Rev. C. L. Goodell,
D.D., and A. S. Barnes, Esq. The Committee on the part of the A. M. A. consisted of Rev. J.
L. Withrow, D.D., Rev. Washington Gladden, D.D., Rev. D. O. Mears, D.D., Prest. S. C. Bartlett,
and Rev. W. H. Ward, D.D. All were present except Dr. Goodell, and his place was filled by
Mr. S. B. Capen. A letter from Dr. Goodell was read. Dr. Barrows, representing the Home Missionary
Society, and Dr. Strieby, representing the American Missionary Association, were also present
by invitation.

It was manifest that the members of the Committee were equally friends of both societies and
sought only their greatest efficiency. No partisan feeling found utterance. The members of
the Committee are men of independent views and judgment, and examined the subject before them
from different standpoints, and yet reached in the paper presented below a remarkable degree
of unanimity--every item receiving a unanimous vote. The result will command and deserves the
attention of the churches. The following is

THE ACTION OF THE COMMITTEE.

Consulting the principle of comity between the two societies--the A. H. M. S. and the A. M.
A.--and that traditional policy of Congregationalists which ignores caste and color lines,
and also in view of the present relative position and strength of the two societies, we, the
Joint Committee, give as our judgment:

1. That, as heretofore, the principal work of the American Home Missionary Society should be
in the West, and the principal work of the American Missionary Association should be in the South.

2. Whatever new work may be called for in any locality should be under the charge of the society
already occupying the ground. No exception to this rule should be allowed unless it be by agreement
between the two societies.

3. Concerning work already established by either society, we would recommend that if either
comity, economy or efficiency will be advanced by it, such a transfer of the work should be
made as shall bring the work of the societies into harmony with the preceding recommendations.

4. We would recommend to the two societies to consider the practicability of using a common
superintendent in those portions of the field where an economical and efficient administration
will be secured by it.

       *       *       *       *       *

ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS A DAY.

What can be done with it? We can sustain efficiently our current work of educating teachers
and preachers and the planting of churches. In the progress of development, more requires more.
If the Association did not need increased receipts it would be evidence of lack of growth.
There is no such lack. New demands are springing up at every point, and it is wise economy
to meet these demands. They are simply the healthy development of legitimate missionary work.

Just now there is urgent demand for the increase of facilities for promoting industrial education.
The South is arising into a new life. New fields of labor are rapidly opening. Skilled workmen
are wanted. The possibilities of agricultural prosperity are becoming better understood. The
aspiring youth of both sexes are comprehending their opportunities, and the industrial departments
in connection with our institutions are patronized as never before. We ought to make the most
of them now.

We need more means for supplying the minds of those hungering for knowledge with good reading.
The colored people have few, if any, books or periodicals. We ought to have the means at once
for furnishing fifty libraries and reading-rooms at as many different points. Such help to
those willing to help themselves to some extent should be provided.

The students leaving our schools to go forth as teachers may be numbered by thousands. These
explore the dark places of the land. They open schools in such buildings as can be found, or,
finding none, teach out of doors. We need means to aid many such with supplemental support,
making it possible for them to continue their schools longer than the few months provided for
by the limited State appropriations. Thousands of dollars could be used wisely in this way.
The opportunity now for temperance work is more promising than ever. A temperance wave has
been sweeping some portions of the South. Our students are thoroughly indoctrinated in the
principles of total abstinence. They make the best advocates of the cause that can be had for
many localities. It is a crucial period. The time to do this work is now--now, while the great
questions at issue are being agitated and settled. We ought to have means for extending our
efforts to the utmost in this direction.

Of more importance still is evangelistic work, supplemental to the labors of our pastors. This
is coming into more than usual prominence. Our students have had thorough training for it,
and no little experience in it during their course of study. A score of them in every Southern
State could be set to work with profit, if we had the money for such outlay. Nothing could
do more for immediate results in developing a pure Christianity among the untaught and unsaved
poor of the South.

We might also, with a thousand dollars a day, do more than we have ever done to foster the
growth of right and permanent institutions in all our fields of labor. This is the great and
urgent necessity. Out of Christian churches and schools will flow all the benefits demanded
by a Christian civilization. For this especially we emphasize our appeal. To what better use
can the Christians and patriots of our country devote a thousand dollars a day?

       *       *       *       *       *

A friend, noting the annual average addition of churches as five or six, raised the question
whether the time had not come for doubling that rate. The Association is glad to recognize
this worthy aspiration and itself to avow the spirit of it, and still further to remind the
friends that the disposition of leaders on the field to magnify the work of each year is also
in the same line. Nevertheless, we find that those who become in some sense responsible for
the nurture and support of these ecclesiastical children born to us become conservative instead
of becoming rash, as is sometimes averred. Yet we are able to give assurance that the Field
Superintendent and his associates, with their eyes upon the whole field, watching the germs
and their unfolding, are only anxious to set out these plants of the Lord's house as fast as
is at all consistent. We also see, in no far-away future, a large church work for us as the
fruitage of our school work.

       *       *       *       *       *

A prize of $75 is given annually to the best male Greek scholar in the High School at Newport,
R. I. The best examination this year was by the daughter of George Rice, the colored steward
of the steamer Pilgrim. As she was not eligible to the award a gentleman from New York sent
her $75 in gold.

       *       *       *       *       *

WANTED!

--We greatly need a new school building, for the lower grades at Tougaloo University, a two-story
building with school rooms below and a chapel above. Who will give $3,000 for ---- Hall at
Tougaloo?

--We need also a steam engine for the Industrial Department at Tougaloo, a portable engine
of ten or twelve horse-power. Who will give it, or the money needful?

--We need twenty or more sets of carpenters' tools for schools of carpentry at Talladega and
elsewhere. Who will give one or more sets?

--We need illustrated books and magazines for our Reading Rooms. Who will give us subscriptions
to Wide Awake, St. Nicholas, etc., or money to buy such books as will help to create the reading
habit?

       *       *       *       *       *

BENEFACTIONS.

Rutgers College has received $1,000 toward an endowment fund from Mr. R. H. Ballentine, Newark,
N. J.

Mayor Low, of Brooklyn, has given the city of Salem, Mass., $7,500, the income of which is
to be applied in aid of needy students in college.

Illinois College has recently received a gift of $1,000 from Mr. E. W. Blatchford, of Chicago,
who was a member of the class of '65.

Mr. George W. Dixon, of Bethlehem, Pa., has given $20,000 to Linden Hall Female Seminary, to
build a Gothic chapel in memory of his daughter.

Mr. Roland Mather, of Hartford, Conn., has given $10,000 to Olivet College, Mich.

Joseph Dean, of Minneapolis, has placed in the hands of the trustees of Hamlin University $25,000
to increase the endowment of that institution.

Mrs. Robert L. Stuart has given $150,000 to Princeton College to endow the department of philosophy
and pay the salaries of professors in logic, ethics and psychology.

Among the wants specified in the report of the Executive Committee of the A. M. A. for the
coming year was $10,000 for a new hall for the Edward Smith College, at Little Rock, Ark. It
is proposed that the donor of the amount name the hall at his discretion.

       *       *       *       *       *

GENERAL NOTES.

AFRICA.

--Among the Belgians no less than six commercial societies have been constituted to explore
the Congo.

--The Livingstone Inland Mission has founded a new station at Ngoma's Town, one hundred kilometers
up the river from Stanley Pool.

--The merchants of Lisbon have constituted a company for the navigation of the Quanza. They
have constructed to this effect in England a steamer, the Serpa Pinto, which was to be delivered
in September.

--The Scotch Presbyterian Church have decided to furnish a steamer for the use of the Old Calabar
Mission. The young people throughout the church have been requested to take up the matter and
secure the money by the time the steamer is ready.

--According to a dispatch from Sierra Leone the Queen of Massah, with the consent of the native
chiefs, has authorized the annexation of the neighboring territory of Sherbro to the English
possession, which will thus extend without interruption from Sierra Leone to Liberia.

--The fever of speculation reigns at Axim and in the districts of the Golden Coast. From the
climate and the conditions of exploration, the working of the mines proceeds slowly. Commander
Cameron, director of the West African Goldfields Company, has introduced upon his grant the
hydraulic processes employed in California.

--The Journal of Geneva announces that the International African Association is occupied at
present in seeking colonists who will receive gratuitously land in the countries of the Congo,
of which Stanley has taken possession. It is negotiating to attract the Germans, and already
the Prussian journals speak of the creation of a German Consulate.

--Flegel has offered to the African German Society to make a new exploration in a region entirely
unknown, which extends to the Congo; or, if they choose, to return toward the west to Mount
Cameroon. The Government of the German Empire has granted a sum of 50,000 francs for this exploration.
On the other hand, some private individuals of Lagos, where Flegel has resided since his last
voyage, have furnished him funds with which to conduct an exploration to the basin of the Niger
and to Bénoué, in the advancement of science and commerce.

--Mr. Petersen and Dr. Sims have founded at Stanley Pool a new station for the Livingstone
Inland Mission. Dr. Sims very quickly commenced to heal the sick, which gained him the confidence
of the natives. These latter do not labor hard enough to produce from their land the provisions
necessary for the number of Europeans established at Stanley Pool, and the price of provisions
has greatly increased. The steamer, Henry Reed, destined for the Upper Congo was to start out
the first of August.

THE INDIANS.

--Of the 6,000 Pi-Utes it is said that there are never more than 600 on their reservation at
one time. Not more than fifty attend the agency school.

--The National Indian Association, an organization composed exclusively of ladies, has for
its object to obtain for the Indians the rights of citizens, and to induce the Government to
allow them to own farms.

--The General Council of the Choctaw Nation, recently closed, appropriated $100,000 for the
erection of a new council house, the old one to be used as a manual-labor school for the education
and training in industrial pursuits of fifty orphan boys.

--The ceremony of receiving Sitting-Bull into the Catholic Church at Fort Yates has been indefinitely
postponed because Sitting-Bull cannot make up his mind which of his two wives he will let go.
Bishop Marty has had him under his care for several months, and his instructions were being
rapidly absorbed by the Chief; but separation from his wives proved too much, and he will probably
return to heathenism.

THE CHINESE.

--The missionaries in China, to the number of 231, have presented another petition to the House
of Commons against the infamous opium traffic.

--There is a Chinaman at work in Tahiti, in the South Sea Islands, who is said to be a whole
Bible society in himself, expending twenty dollars a month out of a salary of twenty-five dollars,
for Bibles to distribute among his countrymen there.

--The largest bell in the world is in Kiota, Japan. It is 24 feet high and 16 inches thick
at the rim. It is sounded by a suspended piece of wood, like a battering ram, which strikes
it on the outside, and its booming can be heard for miles. Nobody knows when or by whom it
was cast, and though its surface is covered with characters, no scholar has yet been able to
translate them.

--The Foreign Missionary says the great secret of success in teaching the Chinese in America
lies in the direct personal influence of the teacher over the pupil. Generally each pupil is
provided with a teacher, and the chances of spiritual benefit are in direct proportion to the
cordial sympathy and manifest kindness evinced. The first important revelation that dawns upon
the Chinaman is that there are those in this land who are not hoodlums, and that brutality
is not the universal law in America; that Christianity is higher and purer than the enactments
of Congress, and that Christ is the friend of all men, and has died for Chinamen as well as
"Melicans."

       *       *       *       *       *

BUREAU OF WOMAN'S WORK.

MISS D. E. EMERSON, SECRETARY.

       *       *       *       *       *

PAPERS READ AT THE WOMAN'S MEETING IN BROOKLYN.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE INDIAN WOMAN.

BY MRS. A. L. RIGGS.

To describe an Indian woman is no easy task for one who lives among them, for every peculiarity
becomes so familiar, and so interwoven with our common everyday experience, that we forget
how strange and unlike white women she appeared to us at first. But she is a woman, even though
she wears her shawl over her head and carries her baby on her back.

How uninteresting, you must think, and she probably thinks the same of you. She does not know
that you care for her. She feels that she is different in some way, and most likely if you
smile upon her she will not know it, for she is too modest even to look at you; but speak to
her in a pleasant tone and offer to shake hands with her and notice her baby, and she begins
to think that you are a woman. In her no trace of dignity nor Pocahontas beauty are discernible,
but she is untidy in person and attire, her movements are decidedly lackadaisical. An uninteresting
object, indeed, to one who does not care to help her. But we believe that she has a woman's
heart; and more than that--she has a soul.

Her aspirations for herself are limited, but she wants her child to grow up in the white people's
way. Yet how small her conception of how this is to be accomplished!

She is a heathen--hemmed in on every side by fear and superstition. Her gods are gods of fear.
She believes in witchcraft, is afraid of a world full of evil spirits. Under a pagan religion
her place is next to the mere animals. She goes with her husband to the hunt, not as a companion,
but as the drudge, the human pack-horse; she prepares the food, and her husband devours it
regardless of her needs; he may boast of his "old woman" as being "nina mimi heca" (swift or
good to work) for that is the only accomplishment required in his selfish, egotistical mind.
"The Indian woman comes into the world under a species of protest--every Indian parent desiring
to have boys, rather than girls, hence she grows up into a condition of servitude." "In the
Indian nation to purchase a wife is the honorable way, all other ways are dishonorable, and
the man having bought his wife, although the custom of the country does not allow him to dispose
of her to another, yet he may put her away, or leave her, at his pleasure. He may also whip
her and beat her, for she is his money." I never shall forget one poor woman who came to me
soon after we went to the Indian country. She showed me her back covered with the marks where
her husband had beaten her.

Now I have given you a brief description of the Indian woman as we find her. What can be done
for her? What would you do for her? There is only one thing. Help her to become a Christian.
This is not to be accomplished in a hurry, for she is in bondage to her husband--to her religion.
But faith and prayer, together with a genuine interest in the Indian home, can accomplish much.
Desolate and comfortless though that home may be, it can be transformed, and the husband even
can be made to see that there is something more real, something that is more satisfying, something
that is more comforting than this life of fear and bondage to his heathen gods. "The man has
more to give up than the woman if he becomes a Christian. If a woman changes her gods and her
religion, no one cares very much; it is 'only a woman.' But a man must abandon his ancestral
faith, which binds him more strongly than the woman, for the very reason that he is a man,
and has been inducted into manhood through the ceremonies of his religion."

He can be led to see that his wife is worth more to him than his horse or his dog; and he begins
to see that he can do some of the work which she has been obliged to do, and thus she is enabled
to make home more attractive. With the dawn of Christianity comes the first effort toward civilized
ways. The husband now brings the wood and water, and little by little a few household conveniences
appear, such as chairs, a table, a few dishes; also knives and forks are used instead of fingers;
even lambrequins are sometimes seen--hung, however, in the most absurd way, outside the shades--and
we are astonished to see in some of the houses white counterpanes and ruffled pillow-shams.
Also a U. S. T. D. blanket is often spread down for a carpet, and the rude, rough walls are
covered with pictures cut from illustrated newspapers.

We find them ready and anxious to be taught many simple and needful domestic arts, such as
making light bread and preparing wholesome dishes of food for the sick. The teaching of making
light bread became quite an important part of my duties as a missionary's wife, and for the
Indian women to take lessons in bread-making became quite fashionable.

Then she shows a desire to dress like white women, and instead of the broadcloth skirt tied
around her waist with a string and the short calico sack, and moccasins upon her feet, she
appears with a kilt plaiting around her dress skirt, and, what probably in her mind is an improvement
upon white woman's taste, the plaiting is headed with two or three rows of bright worsted skirt
braid. As she admires the thin and lightly covered head of the white baby, she closely clips
her own baby's hair so as to have it as nearly like a white baby as possible. But all this
is the mere outside of life--one benefit which Christianity brings to her personally. She begins
to show that she has become a missionary at heart and that she has a desire to send this great
blessing which has wrought such a change in her home into other homes; and as others like herself,
near at hand, have been treasuring up the blessed words of the Lord Jesus, "Go ye and preach
my gospel," they begin to think that they can do something to send the good tidings to those
who are in the darkness which so recently surrounded themselves.

Now, in the Dakota mission, we have thirteen churches, and in every one a woman's missionary
society, and the money raised is used to support native missionaries--that is, Christian Indians
are sent out among the heathen Indians as missionaries, and are supported by Indian societies.
The Indian woman's society is conducted very much like any sewing society among white women.
Some woman is appointed to lead the devotional exercises, and we have our officers appointed
annually. They make children's clothing after the white woman's fashion, and many useful articles
similar to those usually made in sewing societies. Those women who are able make articles after
their own styles, such as moccasins, pretty bags handsomely ornamented with porcupine, bead
or ribbon work. These articles are gifts to the society, and we have no difficulty in disposing
of them to those who wish specimens of Indian woman's skill in fancy work, or who may wish
to help this native missionary work which is being so nobly carried on. Some of these women
are really wonderful in their zeal and faithfulness, walking six, seven, or eight miles to
the meeting every week. I could tell you many things about these faithful Christian Indian
women, but do you wish any better proof of the hold Christianity has upon Indians?

As I said before, an Indian woman's aspirations for herself are limited, but she wants her
child to grow up in the white people's way. Now, if we are to elevate the Indian nation, let
us plant in the homes the desire for the Gospel, and as we do it gather the children as fast
as they are old enough to leave their mother's care into Christian training schools. Now out
in the Indian country we are all the time carrying on missionary work in the homes, planting
schools, organizing churches, and sending out native missionaries.

We have at Santee Agency, Neb., a large school of advanced grade, well established for the
education of children and youth. So well known is this school among Christian Indians that
our accommodations have become very limited, and last year we were obliged to refuse many who
wished to come. I think you cannot know how hard it is for us to say, We cannot take you.

The great Dakota nation is ready to receive the Christian religion. We have the Bible in the
Dakota language--a monument grand and beautiful to one who has just gone to his reward. Years
of patient, quiet toil were spent in translating the precious words from the Greek and the
Hebrew into the language of over fifty thousand savages. Then what hinders the work? We have
hymns in the Dakota tongue. Who will go and sing these precious words to those who never heard
them? There are those who are ready to go, but where is the money to send them? If you cannot
go, what hinders you from sending some one? To be sure, this is a work of difficulty, for how
can we expect a few years of training to so revolutionize a savage's live that he can withstand
the heathenism which still permeates his native home? But we have those whom we can trust,
and who are filling places of responsibility and usefulness. Besides those who have gone out
as missionaries and teachers, we have in our school at Santee native teachers, and our own
children are taught by them. One of our pupils is assistant matron in the Dakota Home. One
who has been under our care is in the little city of Pierre, D. T., giving music lessons to
white pupils. I give only a few instances, to show that we are beginning to see the results
of our work.

Then give the free Gospel of the love of Christ to this great heathen nation right here so
near us. Here is the Bible, here are the hymns; who will provide the means to scatter them,
and who will go to carry them? We are preparing those who will go with you as assistants and
interpreters. We hear of those who wish to get rid of the Indians; the surest way to do it
is to educate them and Christianize them.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHINESE.

EXTRACT FROM ADDRESS OF MRS. W. C. POND.

I will not waste time upon an introduction. I will only say that I am glad to be among you;
glad that you are interested in the Chinese work, with which we have been connected so many
years in California. We feel that we are greatly privileged in having these dark souls within
our reach. We can obey our Saviour's last command, "Disciple all nations," without having to
go far from our homes and native land. They are with us and we have but to open our hearts
and our churches to them and they will come in. They are coming in; not in large numbers but
one by one. In the church of which my husband has been the pastor for nearly ten years there
are over seventy Chinese members--about one-third of our whole membership.

Many inquire how Chinese converts are tested. They join the Christian Association on probation
and after a test of six or eight months are recommended to the church. Then they come before
a committee of the church and are examined, and after studying the articles of faith, in their
own language, for several weeks they are propounded for church membership, and if they prove
satisfactory are baptized and come into full fellowship with the church. They are not hurried
into the church and are themselves timid and prefer to wait.

We have no work among the Chinese women that we can call our own. Both Presbyterians and Methodists
have such a work in San Francisco, and it divides into very little sections what can be at
best but a small work, because there are only three or four hundred Chinese women in San Francisco,
and not a tenth of these accessible. But if means would allow we would be glad to attempt a
work among the women at Sacramento, where nothing is done for them. With our very limited resources
we can save more by working among the thousands of men and boys.

But we have much work by women of whom I would like to make mention. Patient and heroic, prayerful
and soul-saving have been their efforts among the Chinese. I would like to tell you of one
who has recently gone to her reward. Before leaving my home two months ago I called upon her
and found her strength failing. But she was hopeful respecting her recovery, and the strongest
incentive she had to get well was that she might have more opportunities to tell the story
of Jesus to her boys, as she called those in the Chinese school. And when death came to her,
six Chinese acted as pall-bearers at her funeral, at her own request. The church was more than
half filled with Chinese, and the scene was touching in the extreme, as one by one they went
to look upon her face for the last time.

