Arabic Numerals.--In the Archæological Journal (vol. vi. p. 291.), it is stated that the earliest
"example of the use of Arabic numerals in any work connected with building" is the date 1445,
on the tower of Heathfield Church, Sussex, though "they were common in MSS. after 1320, and
in astronomical Tracts as early as 1290." As it is probable that not a few instances of the
employment of the Arabic numeral characters of an earlier date than that at Heathfield are
to be met with in different parts of the country, will you permit me to make use of your paper
to inquire whether any such are known to any of your readers, and if they will be so obliging
as to communicate their knowledge through the medium of your columns? As the subject is one
of considerable interest, it would be desirable that any date belonging to the fifteenth or
the early part of the sixteenth century should be made known, and registered in your valuable
publication. I am already acquainted with Astle, On Writing, Wallis's Algebra, Nouveau Traité
de Diplomatique, the Huctiana, Pegge's Life of Grostête, and the Philosophical Transactions;
but I wish for additional, and, if possible, more recent information.

Does any one of your readers know what became of the MSS. formerly in the possession of the
above-named Thomas Astle, formerly Keeper of the Tower Records? In Sir W. Burrell's Sussex
collections in the British Museum are copies of charters, "ex MSS. penes T. Aste," with notices
of curious seals appended, which I should be glad to be able to inspect.

E.V.

Stephen Eiton, or Eden's "Acta Regis Edw. II."--The interesting account of St. Thomas of Lancaster,
with the appended queries (No. 12. p. 181.), reminds me of the work of Stephen Eiton or Eden,
a canon-regular of Warter, in Yorkshire, entitled, "Acta Regis Edwardi iidi," which is said
still to remain in manuscript. Where is it deposited?

T.J.

Dog Latin.--Permit me also to ask, what is the origin of the expression "Dog Latin"?

T.J.

The Cuckoo--the Welch Ambassador.--In Middleton's A Trick to Catch the Old One, Act iv. sc.
5., Dampet says:--

   "Why, thou rogue of universality, do I not know thee? Thy
   sound is like the cuckoo, the Welch Embassador."

And the editor of the continuation of Dodsley's Collection remarks on the passage,--

   "Why the cuckoo is called the Welch Embassador, I know not."

{231}Perhaps some of your readers can explain why the cuckoo is so called.

G.

A recent Novel.--Having lately met with an extremely rare little volume, the title of which
runs thus: "La prise d'un Seigneur Ecossois et de ses gens qui pilloient les navires pescheurs
de France, ensemble le razement de leur fort et le rétablissement d'un autre pour le service
du Roi ... en la Nouvelle France ... par le sieur Malepart. Rouen, le Boullenger, 1630. 12o.
24pp." I was reminded of a modern novel, the principal scenes of which are laid in an island
inhabited by a British nobleman of high rank, who, having committed a political crime, had
been reported dead, but was saved by singular circumstances, and led the life of a buccaneer.
Can any of your numerous readers be good enough to mention the title of the novel alluded to,
which has escaped my memory?

ADOLPHUS.

Authorship of a Couplet.--Can you help me to the authorship of the following lines?--

   "Th' unhappy have whole days, and those they choose;
    The happy have but hours, and those they lose."

P.S.

Seal of Killigrew, and Genealogy of the Killigrew Family.--"BURIENSIS" (No. 13. p. 204.) is
informed that the arms on the seal at Sudbury are certainly those of a member of the old Cornish
house of Killigrew. These arms, impaled by those of Lower, occur on a monument at Llandulph,
near Saltash, to the memory of Sir Nicholas Lower, and Elizabeth his wife, who died in 1638.
She was a daughter of Sir Henry Killegrewe, of London, and a near relative, I believe, of the
Master of the Revels.

While on this subject, I beg to put a query to your genealogical readers. The double-headed
eagle, the bordure bizantée, and the demilion charged with bezants, are all evident derivations
from the armorial bearings of Richard, titular king of the Romans, Earl of Cornwall, &c., second
son of King John. The family of Killegrewe is of venerable antiquity in Cornwall. What I wish
to ascertain is, the nature of the connection between the family and that unfortunate "king."
Was it one of consanguinity, or merely one of feudal dependence?

MARK ANTONY LOWER.

*** See, on the origin of the arms of Richard and their derivatives, my Curiosities of Heraldry,
pp. 309. et seq.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

SELAGO AND SAMOLUS.

In common with the mistletoe and vervain the Druids held the Selago and Samolus as sacred plants,
and never approached them but in the most devout and reverential manner. When they were gathered
for religious purposes the greatest care was taken lest they should fall to the earth, for
it was an established principle of Druidism, that every thing that was sacred would be profaned
if allowed to touch the ground; hence their solicitude to catch the anguinum:

   "------------------When they bear
    Their wond'rous egg aloof in air:
    Thence before to earth it fall,
    The Druid in his hallow'd pall
    Receives the prize."

Pliny, in his Natural History (lib. xxiv. cap. 11.) gives a circumstantial account of the ceremonies
used by the Druids in gathering the Selago and Samolus, and of the uses to which they were
applied:--

   "Similis berbæ huie sabinæ est Selago appellata. Legitur
    sine ferro dextra manu per tunicam, qua sinistra
    exuitur velut a furante, candida veste vestito, pureque
    lotis nudis pedibus, saero facto priusquam legatur,
    pane vinoque. Fertur in mappa nova. Hanc contra omnem
    perniciem habendam prodidere Druidæ Gallorum, et contra
    omnia oculorum vitia fumum ejus prodesse.

    "Iidem Samolum herbam nominavere nascentem in humidis:
    et hanc sinistra manu legi a jejunis contra morbos suum
    boumque, nec respicere legentem: nec alibi quam in
    canali, deponere, ibique conterere poturis."

From the very slight manner in which these plants are described by Pliny, it is next to impossible
to identify them with any degree of certainty, though many attempts for the purpose have been
made. So far as I know, Pliny is the only ancient author who mentions them, and we have therefore
nothing to guide us beyond what he has said in this passage.

The word Selago is supposed to be derived from se and lego, i.e. quid certo ritu seligeretur.
Linnæus appropriated the name to a pretty genus of Cape plants, but which can have nothing
whatever to do with the Selago of the Druids. It has been thought to be the same as the Serratula
Chamæpeuce of Linnæus, but without sufficient reason, for Pliny says it resembles the savine;
and Matthiolus, in his Commentary on Dioscorides, when speaking of the savine (Juniperus Sabina),
says:--

   "Siquidem vidi pro Sabina assumi quandam herbam
    dodrantalem quæ quibusdam in montibus plurima nascitur,
    folio tamaricis, licet nec odore nec sapore Sabinam
    Hanc sæpius existimavi esse Selaginem referat. a Plinio
    lib. xxiv. c. 11. commemoratam."

Samolus, or as some copies read Samosum, is said to be derived from two Celtic words, san,
salutary, and mos, pig; denoting a property in the plant which answers to the description of
Pliny, who says the Gauls considered the Samolus as a specific in all maladies of swine and
cattle. {232}But there is not less difficulty in identifying this plant than in the former
case. Some have thought it the same as the little marsh plant, with small white flowers, which
Linnæus calls Samolus Valerandi, while others consider it to be the Anemone Pulsatilla. I am
ignorant of the salutary properties of these plants, and must leave it to be decided which
of them has the greatest claims to be considered the Samolus of Pliny.

G.M.

Is there any English translation of Ælian's Various History, or of the work ascribed to the
same author on the Peculiarities of Animals?

East Winch. Jan. 1850.

Selago and Samolus.--The Selago (mentioned by "PWCCA," No. 10. p. 157.), in Welsh Gras Duw
(Gratia Dei), was held by the Druids as a charm against all misfortunes; they called it Dawn
y Dovydd, the gift of the Lord. They also ascribed great virtues to the Samolus, which was
called Gwlydd, mild or tender. All that can be known respecting the Selago and Samolus, may
be seen in Borlase's Antiquities of Cornwall.

GOMER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ÆLFRIC'S COLLOQUY.

In the Anglo-Saxon Gloss, to Ælfric's Latin dialogue, higdifatu is not, I conceive, an error
of the scribe, but a variation of dialect, and therefore, standing in no need of correction
into hydigfatu ("NOTES and QUERIES," No. 13.). Hig, hi and hy, are perfectly identical, and
nothing is more usual in A.S. than the omission of the final g after i; consequently, hig=hy,
di=dig, therefore higdi=hydig. Mr. Singer's reading of cassidilia for culidilia, I consider
to be well-founded.

His conjecture, that sprote=Goth. sprauto, has something very specious about it, and yet I
must reject it. That useful and sagacious author, Dr. Kitchener, tells us, that there is only
one thing to be done in a hurry (or sprauto); and even if he had not informed us what that
one thing is, very few indeed would ever have imagined that it was fish-catching. The word
sprote was a puzzle to me, and I had often questioned myself as to its meaning, but never could
get a satisfactory answer; nor was it until some time after the publication of the 2nd edition
of my Analecta that it occurred to me that it might signify a wicker or sallow basket (such
as is still in use for the capture of eels), from Lat. sporta, whence the German sportel. My
conjecture, of salice for the salu of the text, was based on the possibility that the apparatus
might somehow or other be made of the salix.

I beg leave to inform "SELEUCUS," that The Phoenix, with an English version, and with the Latin
original, is to be found in the Codex Exoniensis, edited by me, in 1842, for the Society of
Antiquaries. The Latin ascribed to Lactantius, is printed in the Variourum edition of Claudian,
and, I believe, in the editions of Lactantius.

Jan. 30, 1850.

B. THORPE.

       *       *       *       *       *

PORTRAITS OF LUTHER AND ERASMUS.

Your correspondent, "R.G." (No. 13. p. 203.), is correct in supposing the wood-cut portrait
of Luther to be that which is prefixed to the treatise "De Captivitate Babylonica Ecclesiæ,"
where he is habited as a monk; but it was evidently only a copy from the very interesting copper-plate
engraving of his friend Lucas Cranach, bearing the date 1520, of which a very accurate copy
was prefixed to the translation of "Luther's Way to Prayer," published by Mr. Pickering in
1846. Juncker's book is a very good repertory of the various representations of the great reformer,
but the prints are generally but faithless copies. In 1750 Kirchmayer printed an especial disquisition
upon the portrait by Lucas Cranach of 1523, under the following title:--"Disquisitio Historia
de Martini Lutheri Oris et Vultus Habitu Hervieo ad vivum expresso in Imagine divine pencilli
Lucæ Cranachj patris in ære hic incisa," &c., Wittebergæ Sax. 1750, 4to. The works in which
the Germans have sought to do honour to their great protestant saint, are numerous enough to
fill a small library but two of them are so remarkable as to deserve notice, 1. "Luther's Merkwürdige
Lebensumstande bey seiner Medicinalischen Leibesconstitution, Krankheiten, geistlichen und
leiblichen Anfectungen und andern Zufallen, &c., von F.G. Keil," Leipsig, 1764. 2. "Luther's
Merkwürdige Reisegeschichte zu Erganzung seiner Lebensumstande, von Jo. Th. Lingke," Leipsig,
1769, 4to. The earliest wood-cut representation of Erasmus with which I am acquainted is a
medallion accompanying another of Ulric of Hutten, on the title-page of the following work
of the unfortunate but heroic champion of the Reformation:--"Ulrichi ab Hutten cum Erasmo Rotirodamo,
Presbytero, Theologo, Expostulatio." There is reason to believe that this Expostulation was
printed only a short month before Hutten died; and, though it bears neither date nor name of
printer, that it was printed by Johannes Schott, at Strasburg, in the month of July, 1523.
It has another portrait of Hutten at the end, the whole strikingly spirited and characteristic;
by some they have been attributed to Holbein, and if not by him, which is doubtful, they are
at least worthy of him.

One would gladly forget this strife between the great promoter of learning and the soldier-scholar.
Erasmus's conduct was unworthy of a great man, and can never be vindicated.

S.W.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

{233} REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Praise undeserved.--The correct quotation, referred to in No. 14. p. 222., is

    "Praise undeserved is Satire in disguise."

It is by Mr. Br----st, author of a copy of verses called the British Beauties. I cannot fill
up the "hiatus," which in this case is not "maxime deflendus," because I have now no time to
search the Museum Catalogue. I apprehend that the author belonged to the "mob of gentlemen
who wrote with ease," as it is something like Savage's "tenth transmitter" (which, by the bye,
your correspondent, Mr. Gutch, should have said is said to be Pope's)--his only good line.
Here is my authority:

EPIGRAM

On a certain line of Mr. Br----, author of a copy of verses called the "British Beauties."--From
the "GARLAND," a collection of Poems, 1721.

   "When one good line did much my wonder raise
    In Br----st's works, I stood resolved to praise;
    And had, but that the modest author cries,
    Praise undeserv'd is satire in disguise."

I would add, that I believe this Epigram to be Dr. Kenrick's, Goldsmith's old persecutor in
later years.

J.H.F.

Singular Motto.--The "singular motto" which occasions "P.H.F.'s" wonder (No. 14. p. 214.),
is, without doubt, a cypher, and only to be rendered by those who have a Key. Such are not
unfrequent in German, Austrian, or Bohemian Heraldry.

J.H.F.

Discurs. Modest.--At p. 205. No. 13., your correspondent N. replies to A.T.'s query, that "there
can be no reasonable doubt, that the original authority for Rem transubstantiationis patres
ne altigisse quidem, is William Watson in his Quodlibet, ii. 4. p. 31."

By a note of mine, I find that this secular priest, W. Watson, lays the expression in question
to the charge of the Jesuits as "an heretical and most dangerous assertion of theirs." Admitting,
therefore, the Discurs. Modest. to have been published after Watson's Decacordon, i.e. later
than 1602 (which can hardly be doubted), still the further question remains to be asked: "In
what writings of the Jesuits, prior to 1602, had W. Watson himself found these words, with
which he charges them?" Should you think this further query of importance enough to find a
place in your paper, perhaps some one of your readers might throw yet another ray of light
upon this subject.

J.S.

Oxford

Pallace (No. 13. p. 202).--Mr. Halliwell, in his Dictionary of Archaic, &c. Words, explains
this word as used in Devonshire:--

   "Palace, a Storehouse."--Devon. "At Dartmouth,
    I am told there are some of these storehouses, called
    palaces, cut out of the rock, still retaining the name."
    --MS Devon. Gloss.

C.W.G.

Meaning of "Pallace".--The term "Pallace" (No. 13. p. 202.) is applied in Totnes to denote
a landing-place inclosed by walls, but not roofed in. Many of these "pallaces" have been converted
into coal-cellars. Perhaps pales may have been used originally to form these inclosures in
lieu of walls;--and hence the word "pallace" would mean a place paled in. I find repeated mention
made of "pallaces" in a schedule attached to a deed of the Corporation of Totnes, bearing date
September 18th, 1719, a copy of which is now before me, and from it the following extracts
are taken:--

   "One linney and two pallaces or yards."

   "All those houses, rooms, cellars, and pallaces."

   "All that great cellar lately rebuilt, and the plott of ground
    or pallace thereto belonging lately converted into a cellar."

   "All that little cellar and pallace lately rebuilt, and
    the kay or landing place thereto belonging, and near adjoyning
    unto and upon the river Dart."

   "And the little pallace or landing-place."

Apropos of landing-places, it may interest some of your readers to learn that the very stone
upon which Brutus, the nephew of Æneas, landed at Totnes, still remains! It is inserted in
the foot-way nearly opposite the Mayoralty-house in the Fore Street. From Totnes, the neighbouring
shore was heretofore called Totonese: and the British History tells us, that Brutus, the founder
of the British nation, arrived here; and Havillanus [John de Alvilla or Hauteville, according
to Mr. Wright] as a poet, following the same authority, writes thus:--

   "Inde dato cursu, Brutus comitatus Achate
    Gallorum spoliis cumulatis navibus aequor
    Exarat, et superis auraque faventibus usus,
    Littora felices intrat Totonesia portus."

    "From hence great Brute with his Achates steer'd,
    Full fraught with Gallic spoils their ships appear'd;
    The Winds and Gods were all at their command,
    And happy Totnes shew'd them grateful land."

Gibson's Camden.

Totnes is made mention of the Lais de Marie:--

   "Il tient sun chemin tut avant.
    A la mer vient, si est passer,
    En Toteneis est arriver."--Lai d'Elidne.

J. MILNER BARRY, M.D.

Totnes, Devon, Jan. 30. 1850.

{234} Litany Version of the Psalms.--The doubts produced by Beloe's self-contradicting statements
on the subject of the Bishops' Bible, which are referred to by "X.X." (No. 13. p. 203.), may
thus be settled. The first edition of this Bible, printed in 1568, contains a new translation
of the Psalms by Becon. In the second folio edition, 1572, are inserted, in opposite columns,
"the translation according to the Ebrewe," which differs but little from the former, in Roman
letter, and "the translation used in common prayer," or that of the Great Bible, printed by
Whitchurch, 1553, in black letter.

The clarum et venerabile nomen associated with the Bishops' Bible, a very magnificent and perfect
copy of which is now open before me, suggests the inquiry whether there is any copy known of
Archbishop Parker's rare volume on the English Church, 1572, which is not noticed by Martin
in the list of eighteen which he had discovered. He does not mention that in the Chetham library.

T. JONES.

Tempora mutantur &c.--In reply to your correspondent, "E.V." (No. 14. p. 215.), I beg to state,
that the germ of "Tempora mutantur, et nos mutamur in illis," is to be found in the Delitiæ
Poetarium Germanorum, vol. i. p. 685., under the Poems of Matthias Borbonius. He considers
them as a saying of Lotharius I. (flor. Cir. 830.):--

   "Omnia mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis;
    Illa vices quasdam res habet, illa suas."

I sent this communication, some years ago, to Sharpe's Magazine, where it will be found, vol.
v. p. 208.

L.S.

