With the consideration of man in the light of occult science, what this signifies in general,
immediately becomes evident. It rests upon the recognition of something hidden behind that
which is revealed to the outer senses and to the intellect acquired through perception. These
senses and this intellect can apprehend only a part of all that which occult science unveils
as the total human entity, and this part is the physical body. In order to throw light upon
its conception of this physical body, occult science at first directs attention to a phenomenon
which confronts all observers of life like a great riddle,—the phenomenon of death,—and in
connection with it, points to so-called inanimate nature, the mineral kingdom. We are thus
referred to facts, which it devolves on occult science to explain, and to which an important
part of this work must be devoted. But to begin with, only a few points will be touched upon,
by way of orientation.

Within manifested nature the physical body, according to occult science, is that part of man
which is of the same nature as the mineral kingdom. On the other hand, that which distinguishes
man from minerals is considered as not being part of the physical body. From the occult point
of view, what is of supreme importance is the fact that death separates the human being from
that which, during life, is of like nature with the mineral world. Occult science points to
the dead body as that part of man which is to be found existing in the same way in the mineral
kingdom. It lays strong emphasis upon the fact that in this principle of the human being, which
it looks upon as the physical body, and which death reduces to a corpse, the same materials
and forces are at work as in the mineral realm; but no less emphasis is laid upon the fact
that at death disintegration of the physical body sets in. Occult science therefore says: “It
is true that the same materials and forces are at work in the physical body as in the mineral,
but during life their activity is placed at the disposal of something higher. They are left
to themselves only when death occurs. Then they act, as they must in conformity with their
own nature, as decomposers of the physical body.”

Thus a sharp distinction must be drawn between the manifested and the hidden elements in man.
For during life, that which is hidden from view has to wage perpetual war on the materials
and forces of the mineral world. This indicates the point at which occult science steps in.
It has to characterize that which wages the war alluded to, as a principle which is hidden
from sense-observation. Clairvoyant sight alone can reveal its workings. How man arrives at
awareness of this hidden element, as plainly as his ordinary eyes see the phenomena of sense,
will be described in a later part of this book. Results of clairvoyant observation will be
given now for the reason already pointed out in the preceding pages, that is, that communications
about the way in which the higher sight is obtained can only be of value to the student when
he has first become acquainted, in the form of a narrative, with the results of clairvoyant
research. For in this sphere it is quite possible to understand things which one is not yet
able to observe. Indeed, the right path to higher vision starts with understanding.

Now, although the hidden something which wages war on the disintegration of the physical body
can be observed only by the higher sight, it is plainly visible in its effects to the human
faculty of judgment which is limited to the manifested world; and these effects are expressed
in the form or shape in which mineral materials and forces are combined during life. When death
has intervened, the form disappears little by little, and the physical body becomes part of
the rest of the mineral world. But the clairvoyant is able to observe this hidden something
as an independent member of the human organism, which during life prevents the physical materials
and forces from taking their natural course, which would lead to the dissolution of the physical
body. This independent principle is called the etheric or vital body.

If misunderstandings are not to arise at the outset, two things must be borne in mind in connection
with this account of a second principle of human nature. The word “etheric” is used here in
a different sense from that of modern physics, which designates as “ether” the medium by which
light is transmitted. In occult science the use of the word is limited to the sense given above.
It denotes that which is accessible to higher sight, and can be known to physical observation
only by its effects, that is, by its power of giving a definite form or shape to the mineral
materials and forces present in the physical body. Again, the use of the word “body” must not
be misunderstood. It is necessary to use the words of every day language in describing things
on a higher plane of existence, and these terms, when applied to sense-observation, express
only what is physical. The etheric body has, of course, nothing of a bodily nature in the physical
sense, however ethereal we might imagine such a body to be. As soon as the occultist mentions
this etheric or vital body, he reaches the point at which he is bound to encounter the opposition
of many contemporary opinions. The development of the human mind has been such that the mention
of such a principle of human nature is necessarily looked upon as unscientific. The materialistic
way of thinking has arrived at the conclusion that there is nothing to be seen in a living
body but a combination of physical substances and forces such as are also found in the so-called
inanimate body of the mineral, the only difference being that they are more complicated in
the living than in the lifeless body. Yet it is not very long since other views were held,
even by official science.

It is evident to any one who studies the works of many earnest men of science, produced during
the first half of the nineteenth century, that at that time many a genuine investigator of
nature was conscious of some factor acting within the living body other than in the lifeless
mineral. It was termed “vital force.” It is true this vital force is not represented as being
what has been above characterized as the vital body, but underlying the conception was a dim
idea of the existence of such a body. Vital force was generally regarded as something which
in a living body was united with physical matter and forces in the same way that the force
of a magnet unites itself with iron. Then came the time when vital force was banished from
the domain of science. Mere physical and chemical causes were accounted all sufficient.

At the present moment, however, there is a reaction in this respect in some scientific quarters.
It is sometimes conceded that the hypothesis of something of the nature of “vital force” is
not pure nonsense. Yet even the scientist who concedes this much is not willing to make common
cause with the occultist with regard to the vital body. As a rule, it serves no useful purpose
to enter upon a discussion of such views from the standpoint of occult science. It should be
much more the concern of the occultist to recognize that the materialistic way of thinking
is a necessary concomitant phenomenon of the great advance of natural science in our day. This
advance is due to the vast improvements in the instruments used in sense-observation. And it
is in the very nature of man to bring some of his faculties to a certain degree of perfection
at the expense of others. Exact sense-observation, which has been evolved to such an important
extent by natural science, was bound to leave in the background the cultivation of those human
faculties which lead into the hidden worlds. But the time has come when this cultivation is
once more necessary; and recognition of the invisible will not be won by combating opinions
which are the logical outcome of a denial of its existence, but rather by setting the invisible
in the right light. Then it will be recognized by those for whom the “time has come.”

It was necessary to say this much, in order that it may not be imagined that occult science
is ignorant of the standpoint of natural science when mention is made of an “etheric body,”
which, in many circles must necessarily be considered as purely imaginary.

Thus the etheric body is the second principle of the human being. For the clairvoyant, it possesses
a higher degree of reality than the physical body. A description of how it is seen by the clairvoyant
can be given only in later parts of this book, when the sense in which such descriptions are
to be taken will become manifest. For the present it will be enough to say that the etheric
body penetrates the physical body in all its parts, and is to be regarded as a kind of architect
of the latter. All the physical organs are maintained in their form and shape by the currents
and movements of the etheric body. The physical heart is based upon an etheric heart, the physical
brain, upon an etheric brain, and the physical, with this difference, that in the etheric body
the parts flow into one another in active motion, whereas in the physical body they are separated
from each other.

Man has this etheric body in common with all plants, just as he has the physical body in common
with minerals. Everything living has its etheric body.

The study of occult science proceeds upwards from the etheric body to another principle of
the human being. To aid in the formation of an idea of this principle, it draws attention to
the phenomenon of sleep, just as in connection with the etheric body attention was drawn to
death. All human work, so far as the manifested world is concerned, is dependent upon activity
during waking life. But that activity is possible only as long as man is able to recuperate
his exhausted forces by sleep. Action and thought disappear, pain and pleasure fade away during
sleep, and on re-awaking, man’s conscious powers ascend from the unconsciousness of sleep as
though from hidden mysterious sources of energy. It is the same consciousness which sinks down
into dim depths on falling asleep and ascends from them again on re-awaking.

That which awakens life again out of this state of unconsciousness is, according to occult
science, the third principle of the human being. It is called the astral body. Just as the
physical body cannot keep its form by means of the mineral substances and forces it contains,
but must, in order to be kept together, be interpenetrated by the etheric body, so is it impossible
for the forces of the etheric body to illuminate themselves with the light of consciousness.
An etheric body left to its own resources would be in a permanent state of sleep.(1) An etheric
body awake, is illuminated by an astral body. This astral body seems to sense-observation to
disappear when man falls asleep; to clairvoyant observation it is still present, with the difference
that it appears separated from or drawn out of the etheric body. Sense-observation has nothing
to do with the astral body itself, but only with its effects in the manifested world, and these
cease during sleep. In the same sense in which man possesses his physical body in common with
plants, he resembles animals as regards his astral body.

Plants are in a permanent state of sleep. One who does not judge accurately in these matters
may easily make the mistake of attributing to plants the same kind of consciousness as that
of animals and human beings in the waking state; but this assumption can only be due to an
inaccurate conception of consciousness. In that case it is said that, if an external stimulus
is applied to a plant, it responds by certain movements, as would an animal. The sensitiveness
of some plants is spoken of,—for example, of those which contract their leaves when certain
external things act upon them. But the characteristic mark of consciousness is not that a being
reacts in a certain way to an impression, but that it experiences something in its inner nature
which adds a new element to mere reaction. Otherwise we should be able to speak of the consciousness
of a piece of iron when it expands under the influence of heat. Consciousness is present only
when, through the effect of heat, the being feels pain or pleasure inwardly.

The fourth principle of being which occult science attributes to man is one which he does not
share in common with the rest of the manifested world. It is that which differentiates him
from his fellow creatures and makes him the crown of creation. Occult science helps in forming
a conception of this further principle of human nature by pointing out the existence of an
essential difference between the kinds of experience in waking life. On the one hand, man is
constantly subjected to experiences which must of necessity come and go; on the other, he has
experiences with which this is not the case. This fact comes out with special force if human
experiences are compared with those of animals. An animal experiences the influences of the
outer world with great regularity; under the influence of heat and cold it becomes conscious
of pain or pleasure, and during certain regularly recurring bodily processes it feels hunger
and thirst. The sum total of man’s life is not exhausted by such experiences; he is able to
develop desires and wishes which go beyond these things. In the case of an animal it would
always be possible, on going far enough into the matter, to ascertain the cause—either within
or without its body—which impelled it to any given act or feeling. This is by no means the
case with man. He may engender wishes and desires for which no adequate cause exists either
inside or outside of his body. A particular source must be found for everything in this domain;
and according to occult science this source is to be found in the human “I” or “ego.” Therefore
the ego will be spoken of as the fourth principle of the human being.

Were the astral body left to its own resources, feelings of pleasure and pain, and sensations
of hunger and thirst, would take place within it, but there would be lacking the consciousness
of something lasting in all these feelings. It is not the permanent as such, which is here
designated the “ego,” but rather that which experiences this permanent element. In this domain,
conceptions must be very exactly expressed if misunderstandings are not to arise. With the
becoming aware of something permanent, lasting, within the changing inner experiences, begins
the dawn of “ego consciousness.”

The sensation of hunger, for instance, cannot give a creature the feeling of having an ego.
Hunger sets in when the recurring causes make themselves felt in the being concerned, which
then devours its food just because these recurring conditions are present. For the ego-consciousness
to arise, there must not only be these recurring conditions, urging the being to take food,
but there must have been pleasure derived from previous satisfaction of hunger, and the consciousness
of the pleasure must have remained, so that not only the present experience of hunger but the
past experience of pleasure urges the being to take nourishment.

Just as the physical body falls into decay if the etheric body does not keep it together, and
as the etheric body sinks into unconsciousness if not illuminated by the astral body, so the
astral body would necessarily allow the past to be lost in oblivion unless the ego rescued
the past by carrying it over into the present. What death is to the physical body and sleep
to the etheric, the power of forgetting is to the astral body. We may put this in another way,
and say that life is the special characteristic of the etheric body, consciousness that of
the astral body, and memory that of the ego.

It is still easier to make the mistake of attributing memory(2) to an animal than that of attributing
consciousness to a plant. It is so natural to think of memory when a dog recognizes its master,
whom perhaps it has not seen for some time; yet in reality the recognition is not due to memory
at all, but to something quite different. The dog feels a certain attraction toward its master
which proceeds from the personality of the latter. This gives the dog a sense of pleasure whenever
its master is present, and every time this happens it is a cause of the repetition of the pleasure.
But memory only exists in a being when he not only feels his present experiences, but retains
those of the past. A person might admit this, and yet fall into the error of thinking the dog
has memory. For it might be said that the dog pines when its master leaves it, and therefore
it retains a remembrance of him. This too is an inaccurate opinion. Living with its master
has made his presence a condition of well-being to the dog, and it feels his absence much in
the same way in which it feels hunger. One who does not make these distinctions will not arrive
at a clear understanding of the true conditions of life.

Memory and forgetfulness have for the ego much the same significance that waking and sleeping
have for the astral body. Just as sleep banishes into nothingness the cares and troubles of
the day, so does forgetfulness draw a veil over the sad experiences of life and efface part
of the past. And just as sleep is necessary for the recuperation of the exhausted vital forces,
so must a man blot out from his memory certain portions of his past life if he is to face his
new experiences freely and without prejudice. It is out of this very forgetfulness that strength
arises for the perception of new facts. Let us take the case of learning to write. All the
details which a child has to go through in this process are forgotten. What remains is the
ability to write. How would a person ever be able to write if each time he took up his pen
all his experiences in learning to write rose up before his mind?

Now there are many different degrees of memory. Its simplest form is manifest when a person
perceives an object and, after turning away from it, retains its image in his mind. He formed
the image while looking at the object, A process was then carried out between his astral body
and his ego. The astral body lifted into consciousness the outward impression of the object,
but knowledge of the object would last only as long as the thing itself was present, unless
the ego absorbed the knowledge into itself and made it its own.

It is at this point that occult science draws the dividing line between what belongs to the
body and what belongs to the soul. It speaks of the astral body as long as it is a question
of the gaining of knowledge from an object which is present. But what gives knowledge duration
is known as soul. From this it can at once be seen how close is the connection in man between
the astral body and that part of the soul which gives a lasting quality to knowledge. The two
are, to a certain extent, united into one principle of human nature. Consequently, this unity
is often denoted the astral body. When exact terms are desired, the astral body is called the
soul-body, and the soul, in so far as it is united with the latter, is called the sentient soul.

The ego rises to a higher stage of its being when it centres its activity on what it has gained
for itself out of its knowledge of objective things. It is by means of this activity that the
ego detaches itself more and more from the objects of perception, in order to work within that
which is its own possession. The part of the soul on which this work devolves is called the
rational- or intellectual-soul.(3) It is the peculiarity of the sentient and intellectual souls
that they work with that which they receive through sense-impressions of external objects of
which they retain the memory. The soul is then wholly surrendered to something which is really
outside it. Even what it has made its own through memory, it has actually received from without.
But it is able to go beyond all this, and occult science can most easily give an idea of this
by drawing attention to a simple fact, which, however, is of the greatest importance. It is,
that in the whole range of speech there is but one name which is distinguished by its very
nature from all other names. This is the name “I.” Every other name can be applied by any one
to the thing or being to which it belongs. The word “I,” as the designation of a being, has
a meaning only when given to that being by himself. Never can any outside voice call us by
the name of “I.” We can apply it only to ourselves. I am only an “I” to myself; to every one
else I am a “you,” and every one else is a “you” to me. This fact is the outward expression
of a deeply significant truth. The real essence of the ego is independent of everything outside
of it, and it is on this account that its name cannot be applied to it by any one else. This
is the reason why those religions confessions which have consciously maintained their connections
with occult science, speak the word “I” as the “unutterable name of God.” For the fact above
mentioned is exactly what is referred to when this expression is used. Nothing outward has
access to that part of the human soul of which we are now speaking. It is the “hidden sanctuary”
of the soul. Only a being of like nature with the soul can win entrance there. “The divinity
dwelling in man speaks when the soul recognizes itself as an ego.” Just as the sentient and
intellectual souls live in the outer world, so a third soul-principle is immersed in the divine
when the soul becomes conscious of its own nature.

In this connection a misunderstanding may easily arise; it may seem as though occult science
interpreted the ego to be one with God. But it by no means says that the ego is God, only that
it is of the same nature and essence as God. Does any one declare the drop of water taken from
the ocean to be the ocean, when he asserts that the drop and the ocean are the same in essence
or substance? If a comparison is needed, we may say, “The ego is related to God as the drop
of water is to the ocean.” Man is able to find a divine element within himself, because his
original essence is derived directly from the Divine. Thus man, through the third principle
of his soul, attains an inner knowledge of himself, just as through his astral body he gains
knowledge of the outer world. For this reason occult science calls the third soul-principle
the consciousness-soul, and it holds that the soul-part of man consists of three principles,
the sentient-, intellectual-, and consciousness-souls, just as the bodily part has three principles,
the physical, etheric, and astral bodies.

The real nature of the ego is first revealed in the consciousness-soul. Through feeling and
reason the soul loses itself in other things; but as the consciousness-soul it lays hold of
its own essence. Therefore this ego can only be perceived through the consciousness-soul by
a certain inner activity. The images of external objects are formed as those objects come and
go, and the images go on working in the intellect by virtue of their own force. But if the
ego is to perceive itself, it cannot merely surrender itself; it must first, by inner activity,
draw up its own being out of its depths, in order to become conscious of it. A new activity
of the ego begins with this self cognition,—with self-recollection. Owing to this activity,
the perception of the ego in the consciousness-soul possesses an entirely different meaning
for man from that conveyed by the observation of all that reaches him through the three bodily
principles and the two other soul-principles. The power which reveals the ego in the consciousness-soul
is in fact the same power which manifests everywhere else in the world; only in the body and
the lower soul-principles it does not come forth directly, but is manifested little by little
in its effects. The lowest manifestation is through the physical body, thence a gradual ascent
is made to that which fills the intellectual soul. Indeed, we may say that with each ascending
step one of the veils falls away in which the hidden centre is wrapped. In that which fills
the consciousness-soul, this hidden centre emerges unveiled into the temple of the soul. Yet
it shows itself just here to be but a drop from the ocean of the all-pervading Primordial Essence;
and it is here that man first has to grasp it,—this Primordial Essence. He must recognize it
in himself before he is able to find it in its manifestations.

That which penetrates into the consciousness-soul like a drop from the ocean is called by occult
science Spirit. In this way is the consciousness-soul united with the spirit, which is the
hidden principle in all manifested things. If man wishes to lay hold of the spirit in all manifestation,
he must do it in the same way in which he lays hold of the ego in the consciousness-soul. He
must extend to the visible world the activity which has led him to the perception of his ego.
By this means he evolves to yet higher planes of his being. He adds something new to the principles
of his body and soul. The first thing that happens is that he himself conquers what lies hidden
in his lower soul-principles, and this is effected through the work which the ego carries on
within the soul. How man is engaged in this work becomes evident if we compare a high-minded
idealist with a person who is still given up to low desires and so-called sensual pleasures.
The latter becomes transmuted into the former if he withdraws from certain lower tendencies
and turns to higher ones. He thus works through his ego upon his soul thereby ennobling and
spiritualizing it. The ego has become the master of that man’s soul-life. This may be carried
so far that no desire or wish can take root in the soul unless the ego permits its entrance.
In this way the whole soul becomes a manifestation of the ego, which previously only the consciousness-soul
had been. All civilized life and all spiritual effort really consist in the one work, which
has for its object to make the ego the master. Every one now living is engaged in this work
whether he wishes it or not, and whether or not he is conscious of the fact.

Again, by this work human nature is drawn upward to higher stages of being. Man develops new
principles of his being. These lie hidden from him behind what is manifest. If man is able
by working upon his soul, to make his ego master of it, so that the latter brings into manifestation
what is hidden, the work may extend yet farther and include the astral body. In that case the
ego takes possession of the astral body by uniting itself with the hidden wisdom of this astral
principle. In occult science the astral body which is thus conquered and transformed by the
ego is called the Spirit-Self. (This is the same as what is known as “Manas” in theosophical
literature, a term borrowed from the wisdom of the East.) In the Spirit-Self a higher principle
is added to human nature, one which is present as though in the germ, and which in the course
of the work of the human being on itself comes forth more and more.

Man conquers his astral body by pushing through to the hidden forces lying behind it; a similar
thing happens, at a later stage of development, to the etheric body: but the work on the latter
is more arduous, for what is hidden in the etheric body is enveloped in two veils, but what
is hidden in the astral body in only one.(4) Occult science gives an idea of the difference
in the work on the two bodies by pointing out certain changes which may take place in man in
the course of his development. Let us at first think of the way in which certain soul-qualities
of man develop when the ego works upon the soul; how pleasures and desires, joys and sorrows,
may change. We have only to look back to our childhood. What gave us pleasure then, what caused
us pain? What have we learned in addition to what we knew as children? All this is but an expression
of the way in which the ego has gained the mastery over the astral body, for it is this principle
which is the vehicle of pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow. Compared with these things, how
little in the course of time do certain other human qualities change, for example, the temperament,
the deeper peculiarities of the character, and like qualities. A passionate child will often
retain certain tendencies to sudden anger during its development in later life.

This is such a striking fact that there are thinkers who entirely deny the possibility of changing
the fundamental character. They assume that it is something permanent throughout life, and
that it is merely a question of its being manifested in one way or another. But such an opinion
is due to defective observation. To one who is capable of seeing such things, it is evident
that even the character and temperament of a person may be transformed under the influence
of his ego. It is true that this change is slow in comparison with the change in the qualities
before mentioned. We may compare the relation to each other of the rates of change in the two
bodies to the movements of the hour-hand and minute-hand of a clock. Now the forces which bring
about a change of character or temperament belong to the hidden forces of the etheric body.
They are of the same nature as the forces which govern the kingdom of life,—the same, therefore,
as the forces of growth, nutrition, and generation. Further explanations in this work will
throw the right light on these things.

Thus it is not when man simply gives himself up to pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, that
the ego is working on the astral body, but when the peculiarities of these qualities of the
soul are changed; and the work is extended in the same way to the etheric body, when the ego
applies its energies to changing the character or temperament. This change, too, is one in
which every person living is engaged, whether consciously or not. The most powerful incitement
to this kind of change in ordinary life is that given by religion. If the ego allows the impulses
which flow from religion to work upon it again and again, they become a power within it which
extends to the etheric body and changes it as lesser impulses in life effect the transformation
of the astral body. These lesser impulses, which come to man through study, reflection, the
ennobling of feeling, and so on, are subject to the manifold changes of existence; but religious
feelings impress a certain stamp of uniformity upon all thinking, feeling, and willing. They
diffuse an equal and single light over the whole life of the soul.

