I was the child of old age. My nativity, I am told, was not heartily welcomed, for the family
was already within one of a dozen, and the means of support were not superabundant. I arrived
at Middlebrook, New Jersey, while my father kept the toll-gate, at which business the older
children helped him, but I was too small to be of service. I have no memory of residence there,
except the day of departure, and that only emphasised by the fact that we left an old cat which
had purred her way into my affections, and separation from her was my first sorrow, so far
as I can remember.

In that home at Middlebrook, and in the few years after, I went through the entire curriculum
of infantile ailments. The first of these was scarlet fever, which so nearly consummated its
fell work on me that I was given up by the doctors as doomed to die, and, according to custom
in those times in such a case, my grave clothes were completed, the neighbours gathering for
that purpose. During those early years I took such a large share of epidemics that I have never
been sick since with anything worthy of being called illness. I never knew or heard of anyone
who has had such remarkable and unvarying health as I have had, and I mention it with gratitude
to God, in whose "hand our breath is, and all our ways."

The "grippe," as it is called, touched me at Vienna when on my way from the Holy Land, but
I felt it only half a day, and never again since.

I often wonder what has become of our old cradle in which all of us children were rocked! We
were a large family, and that old cradle was going a good many years. I remember just how it
looked. It was old-fashioned and had no tapestry. Its two sides and canopy were of plain wood,
but there was a great deal of sound sleeping in that cradle, and many aches and pains were
soothed in it. Most vividly I remember that the rockers, which came out from under the cradle,
were on the top and side very smooth, so smooth that they actually glistened. But it went right
on and rocked for Phoebe the first, and for DeWitt the last. Two eyes, two hands, and two feet
were the capital my father started with.

Benignity, kindness, keen humour, broad common sense and industry characterised my mother.
The Reverend Dr. Chambers was for many years her pastor. He had fifty years of pastorate service,
in Somerville, N.J., and the Collegiate Church, New York. He said, in an address at the dedication
of the Brooklyn Tabernacle, that my mother was the most consecrated Christian person he had
ever known. My mother worked very hard, and when we would come in and sit down at the table
at noon, I remember how she used to look.

My father was a religious, hard-working, honest man. Every day began and closed with family
worship, led by my father, or, in case of his absence, by Mother. That which was evidently
uppermost in the minds of my parents, and that which was the most pervading principle in their
lives, was the Christian religion. The family Bible held a perfect fascination for me, not
a page that was not discoloured either with time or tears. My parents read out of it as long
as I can remember. When my brother Van Nest died in a foreign land, and the news came to our
country home, that night they read the eternal consolations out of the old book. When my brother
David died that book comforted the old people in their trouble. My father in mid-life, fifteen
years an invalid, out of that book read of the ravens that fed Elijah all through the hard
struggle for bread. When my mother died that book illumined the dark valley. In the years that
followed of loneliness, it comforted my father with the thought of reunion, which took place
afterward in Heaven.

To the wonderful conversion of my grandfather and grandmother, in those grand old days of our
declaration of independence, I trace the whole purpose, trend, and energies of my life. I have
told the story of the conversion of my grandfather and grandmother before. I repeat it here,
for my children.

My grandfather and grandmother went from Somerville to Baskenridge to attend revival meetings
under the ministry of Dr. Finney. They were so impressed with the meetings that when they came
back to Somerville they were seized upon by a great desire for the salvation of their children.
That evening the children were going off for a gay party, and my grandmother said to the children,
"When you get all ready for the entertainment, come into my room; I have something very important
to tell you." After they were all ready they came into my grandmother's room, and she said
to them, "Go and have a good time, but while you are gone I want you to know I am praying for
you and will do nothing but pray for you until you get back." They did not enjoy the entertainment
much because they thought all the time of the fact that Mother was praying for them. The evening
passed. The next day my grandparents heard sobbing and crying in the daughter's room, and they
went in and found her praying for the salvation of God, and her daughter Phoebe said, "I wish
you would go to the barn and to the waggon-house for Jehiel and David (the brothers) are under
powerful conviction of sin." My grandparent went to the barn, and Jehiel, who afterward became
a useful minister of the Gospel, was imploring the mercy of Christ; and then, having first
knelt with him and commended his soul to Christ, they went to the waggon-house, and there was
David crying for the salvation of his soul--David, who afterward became my father. David could
not keep the story to himself, and he crossed the fields to a farmhouse and told one to whom
he had been affianced the story of his own salvation, and she yielded her heart to God. The
story of the converted household went all through the neighbourhood. In a few weeks two hundred
souls stood up in the plain meeting house at Somerville to profess faith in Christ, among them
David and Catherine, afterward my parents.

My mother, impressed with that, in after life, when she had a large family of children gathered
around her, made a covenant with three neighbours, three mothers. They would meet once a week
to pray for the salvation of their children until all their children were converted--this incident
was not known until after my mother's death, the covenant then being revealed by one of the
survivors. We used to say: "Mother, where are you going?" and she would say, "I am just going
out a little while; going over to the neighbours." They kept on in that covenant until all
their families were brought into the kingdom of God, myself the last, and I trace that line
of results back to that evening when my grandmother commended our family to Christ, the tide
of influence going on until this hour, and it will never cease.

My mother died in her seventy-sixth year.

My father, as long as I can remember, was an elder in churches. He conducted prayer-meetings
in the country, when he was sometimes the only man to take part, giving out a hymn and leading
the singing; then reading the Scriptures and offering prayer; then giving out another hymn
and leading in that; and then praying again; and so continuing the meeting for the usual length
of time, and with no lack of interest.

He knew about all the cheerful tunes that were ever printed in old "New Brunswick Collection,"
and the "Shunway," and the sweetest melodies that Thomas Hastings ever composed. He took the
pitch of sacred song on Sabbath morning, and kept it through all the week.

My father was the only person whom I ever knew without any element of fear. I do not believe
he understood the sensation.

Seated in a waggon one day during a runaway that every moment threatened our demolition, he
was perfectly calm. He turned around to me, a boy of seven years, and said, "DeWitt, what are
you crying about? I guess we can ride as fast as they can run."

There was one scene I remember, that showed his poise and courage as nothing else could. He
was Sheriff of Somerset County, N.J., and we lived in the court house, attached to which was
the County Jail. During my father's absence one day a prisoner got playing the maniac, dashing
things to pieces, vociferating horribly, and flourishing a knife with which he had threatened
to carve any one who came near the wicket of his prison, Constables were called in to quell
this real or dramatised maniac, but they fell back in terror from the door of the prison. Their
show of firearms made no impression upon the demented wretch. After awhile my father returned
and was told of the trouble, and indeed he heard it before he reached home. The whole family
implored him not to go near the man who was cursing, and armed with a knife. But father could
not be deterred. He did not stand outside the door and at a safe distance, but took the key
and opened the door, and without any weapon of defence came upon the man, thundering at him,
"Sit down and give me that knife!" The tragedy was ended. I never remember to have heard him
make a gloomy remark. This was not because he had no perception of the pollutions of society.
I once said to my father, "Are people so much worse now than they used to-be?" He made no answer
for a minute, for the old people do not like to confess much to the boys. But after awhile
his eye twinkled and he said: "Well, DeWitt, the fact is that people were never any better
than they ought to be."

Ours was an industrious home. I was brought up to regard laziness as an abominable disease.
He died just three years from the day when my mother sped on.

When my father lay dying the old country minister said to him, "Mr. Talmage, how do you feel
now as you are about to pass the Jordan of death?" He replied--and it was the last thing he
ever said--"I feel well; I feel very well; all is well"--lifting his hand in a benediction,
a speechless benediction, which I pray God may go down through all the generations--"It is well!"

Four of his sons became ministers of the Gospel: Reverend James R. Talmage, D.D., who was preaching
before I was born, and who died in 1879; Reverend John Van Nest Talmage, D.D., who spent his
life as a missionary in China, and died in the summer of 1892; Reverend Goyn Talmage, D.D.,
who after doing a great work for God, died in 1891. But all my brothers and sisters were decidedly
Christian, lived usefully and died peacefully.

The house at Gateville, near Bound Brook, in which I was born, has gone down. Not one stone
has been left upon another. I one day picked up a fragment of the chimney, or wall, and carried
it home. But the home that I associate with my childhood was about three miles from Somerville,
N.J. The house, the waggon-shed, the barn, are now just as I remember them from childhood days.
It was called "Uncle John's Place" from the fact that my mother's uncle, John Van Nest, owned
it, and from him my father rented it "on shares." Here I rode the horse to brook. Here I hunted
for and captured Easter eggs. Here the natural world made its deepest impression on me. Here
I learned some of the fatigues and hardships of the farmer's life--not as I felt them, but
as my father and mother endured them. Here my brother Daniel brought home his bride. From here
I went to the country school. Here in the evening the family were gathered, mother knitting
or sewing, father vehemently talking politics or religion with some neighbour not right on
the subject of the tariff, or baptism, and the rest of us reading or listening. All the group
are gone except my sister Catherine and myself.

My childhood, as I look back upon it, is to me a mystery. While I always possessed a keen sense
of the ludicrous, and a hearty appreciation of fun of all sorts, there was a sedate side of
my nature that demonstrated itself to the older members of the family, and of which they often
spoke. For half days, or whole days, at a time I remember sitting on a small footstool beside
an ordinary chair on which lay open "Scott's Commentaries on the Bible." I not only read the
Scriptures out of this book, but long discourses of Thomas Scott, and passages adjoining. I
could not have understood much of these profound and elaborate commentaries. They were not
written or printed for children, but they had for my childish mind a fascination that kept
me from play, and from the ordinary occupations of persons of my years.

So, also, it was with the religious literature of the old-fashioned kind, with which some of
the tables of my father's house were piled. Indeed, when afterwards I was living at my brothers'
house, he a clergyman, I read through and through and through the four or five volumes of Dwight's
"Theology," which must have been a wading-in far beyond my depth. I think if I had not possessed
an unusual resiliency of temperament, the reading and thinking so much of things pertaining
to the soul and a future state would have made me morbid and unnatural. This tendency to read
and think in sacred directions was not a case of early piety. I do not know what it was. I
suppose in all natures there are things inexplicable. How strange is the phenomenon of childhood
days to an old man!

How well I remember Sanderson's stage coach, running from New Brunswick to Easton, as he drove
through Somerville, New Jersey, turning up to the post-office and dropping the mail-bags with
ten letters and two or three newspapers! On the box Sanderson himself, six feet two inches,
and well proportioned, long lash-whip in one hand, the reins of six horses in the other, the
"leaders" lathered along the lines of the traces, foam dripping from the bits! It was the event
of the day when the stage came. It was our highest ambition to become a stage-driver. Some
of the boys climbed on the great leathern boot of the stage, and those of us who could not
get on shouted "Cut behind!" I saw the old stage-driver not long ago, and I expressed to him
my surprise that one around whose head I had seen a halo of glory in my boyhood time was only
a man like the rest of us. Between Sanderson's stage-coach and a Chicago express train, what
a difference!

And I shall always marvel at our family doctor. Dear old Dr. Skillman! My father's doctor,
my mother's doctor, in the village home! He carried all the confidences of all the families
for ten miles around. We all felt better as soon as we saw him enter the house. His face pronounced
a beatitude before he said a word. He welcomed all of us children into life, and he closed
the old people's eyes.

THE SECOND MILESTONE

1845-1869

When moving out of a house I have always been in the habit, after everything was gone, of going
into each room and bidding it a mute farewell. There are the rooms named after the different
members of the family. I suppose it is so in all households. It was so in mine; we named the
rooms after the persons who occupied them. I moved from the house of my boyhood with a sort
of mute affection for its remembrances that are most vivid in its hours of crisis and meditation.
Through all the years that have intervened there is no holier sanctuary to me than the memory
of my mother's vacant chair. I remember it well. It made a creaking noise as it moved. It was
just high enough to allow us children to put our heads into her lap. That was the bank where
we deposited all our hurts and worries.

"Oh, yes," I replied, "I was looking out at the old place where my mother lived and died."

I pass over the boyhood days and the country school. The first real breath of life is in young
manhood, when, with the strength of the unknown, he dares to choose a career. I first studied
for the law, at the New York University.

New York in 1850 was a small place compared to the New York of to-day, but it had all the effervescence
and glitter of the entire country even then. I shall never forget the excitement when on September
1st, 1850, Jenny Lind landed from the steamer "Atlantic." Not merely because of her reputation
as a singer, but because of her fame for generosity and kindness were the people aroused to
welcome her. The first $10,000 she earned in America she devoted to charity, and in all the
cities of America she poured forth her benefactions. Castle Garden was then the great concert
hall of New York, and I shall never forget the night of her first appearance. I was a college
boy, and Jenny Lind was the first great singer I ever heard. There were certain cadences in
her voice that overwhelmed the audience with emotion. I remember a clergyman sitting near me
who was so overcome that he was obliged to leave the auditorium. The school of suffering and
sorrow had done as much for her voice as the Academy of Stockholm.

The woman who had her in charge when a child used to lock her in a room
when she went off to the daily work. There by the hour Jenny would sit
at the window, her only amusement singing, while she stroked her cat on
her lap. But sitting there by the window her voice fell on a listener in
the street. The listener called a music master to stand by the same
window, and he was fascinated and amazed, and took the child to the
director of the Royal Opera, asking for her the advantages of musical
education, and the director roughly said: "What shall we do with that
ugly thing? See what feet she has. And, then, her face; she will never
be presentable. No, we can't take her. Away with her!" But God had
decreed for this child of nature a grand career, and all those sorrows
were woven into her faculty of song. She never could have been what she
became, royally arrayed on the platforms of Berlin and Vienna and Paris
and London and New York, had she not first been the poor girl in the
garret at Stockholm. She had been perfected through suffering.
    And safe at rest I cannot be
      Until my heart finds rest in Thee.

There never was anyone who could equal Jenny Lind in the warble. Some said it was like a lark,
but she surpassed the lark. Oh, what a warble! I hear it yet. All who heard it thirty-five
years ago are hearing it yet.

I should probably have been a lawyer, except for the prayers of my mother and father that I
should preach the Gospel. Later, I entered the New Brunswick Theological Seminary. Why I ever
thought of any other work in the world than that which I have done, is another mystery of my
youth. Everything in my heredity and in my heart indicated my career as a preacher. And yet,
in the days of my infancy I was carried by Christian parents to the house of God, and consecrated
in baptism to the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost; but that did not save me. In after
time I was taught to kneel at the Christian family altar with father and mother and brothers
and sisters. In after time I read Doddridge's "Rise and Progress," and Baxter's "Call to the
Unconverted," and all the religious books around my father's household; but that did not save
me. But one day the voice of Christ came into my heart saying, "Repent, repent; believe, believe,"
and I accepted the offer of mercy.

It happened this way: Truman Osborne, one of the evangelists who went through this country
some years ago, had a wonderful art in the right direction. He came to my father's house one
day, and while we were all seated in the room, he said: "Mr. Talmage, are all your children
Christians?" Father said: "Yes, all but De Witt." Then Truman Osborne looked down into the
fireplace, and began to tell a story of a storm that came on the mountains, and all the sheep
were in the fold; but there was one lamb outside that perished in the storm. Had he looked
me in the eye, I should have been angered when he told me that story; but he looked into the
fireplace, and it was so pathetically and beautifully done that I never found any peace until
I was inside the fold, where the other sheep are.

When I was a lad a book came out entitled "Dow Junior's Patent Sermons"; it made a great stir,
a very wide laugh all over the country, that book did. It was a caricature of the Christian
ministry and of the Word of God and of the Day of Judgment. Oh, we had a great laugh! The commentary
on the whole thing is that the author of that book died in poverty, shame, debauchery, kicked
out of society.

I have no doubt that derision kept many people out of the ark. The world laughed to see a man
go in, and said, "Here is a man starting for the ark. Why, there will be no deluge. If there
is one, that miserable ship will not weather it. Aha! going into the ark! Well, that is too
good to keep. Here, fellows, have you heard the news? This man is going into the ark." Under
this artillery of scorn the man's good resolution perished.

I was the youngest of a large family of children. My parents were neither rich nor poor; four
of the sons wanted collegiate education, and four obtained it, but not without great home-struggle.
The day I left our country home to look after myself we rode across the country, and my father
was driving. He began to tell how good the Lord had been to him, in sickness and in health,
and when times of hardship came how Providence had always provided the means of livelihood
for the large household; and he wound up by saying, "De Witt, I have always found it safe to
trust the Lord." I have felt the mighty impetus of that lesson in the farm waggon. It has been
fulfilled in my own life and in the lives of many consecrated men and women I have known.

In the church at Somerville, New Jersey, where I was afterwards pastor, John Vredenburgh preached
for a great many years. He felt that his ministry was a failure, and others felt so, although
he was a faithful minister preaching the Gospel all the time. He died, and died amid some discouragements,
and went home to God; for no one ever doubted that John Vredenburgh was a good Christian minister.
A little while after his death there came a great awakening in Somerville, and one Sabbath
two hundred souls stood up at the Christian altar espousing the cause of Christ, among them
my own father and mother. And what was peculiar in regard to nearly all of those two hundred
souls was that they dated their religious impressions from the ministry of John Vredenburgh.

