No. 54.]
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9.                                        385
    Misplaced Words in Shakspeare's Troilus and Cressida      386
    Master John Shorne, by W. J. Thoms                        387
    Corrigenda of Printer's Errors                            388
    Folk-lore of Wales: No. 3. Meddygon Myddvai--No. 4.
      Trwyn Pwcca                                             388
    Connexion of Words: the Word "Freight"                    389
    Minor Notes:--Smith's Obituary--George Wither the
        Poet, a Printer--Corruption of the Text of Gibbon's
        "Decline and Fall"--Traditional Story concerning
        Cardinal Wolsey                                       389

  QUERIES:--

    Early Sale of Gems, Drawings, and Curiosities             390
    Minor Queries:--Quotations wanted--Death of Richard
        H.--Sir W. Herschel's Observations and Writings--
        Swearing by Swans--Automachia--Poa cynosuwides--
        Vineyards--Martin, Cockerell, and Hopkins
        Families--Camden's Poem on the Marriage of the
        Thames and Isis--National Airs of England--Poor
        Pillgarlick--Inscription on a Portrait--Burton's
        Parliamentary Diary--Tobacconists--"The Owl is
        abroad"--Scandal against Queen Elizabeth--Letters
        of Horning--Cromwell poisoned                         391

  REPLIES:--

    Collar of SS.                                             393
    Daniel De Foe, by W. Crafter                              395
    "Antiquitas Sæculi Juventus Mundi"                        395
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Sir Gammer Vans--
        Hipperswitches--Cat and Bagpipes--Forlot, Firlot,
        or Furlet--Sitting during the Lessons--Engelmann's
        Bibliotheca Auctor.

ENGLISH AND NORMAN SONGS OF THE FOURTEENTH CENTURY.

In a vellum book, known as The Red Book of Ossory, and preserved in the archives of that see,
is contained a collection of Latin religious poetry, written in a good bold hand of the 14th
century; prefixed to several of the hymns, in a contemporary and identical hand, are sometimes
one sometimes more lines of a song in old English or Norman French, which as they occur I here
give:

 "Alas hou shold y syng, yloren is my playnge
  Hou sholdy wiz zat olde man}
                                  } swettist of al zinge."
  To leven and let my leman  }

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Harrow ieo su thy: p fol amo^r de mal amy."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Have m^rcie on me frere: Barfote zat ygo."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Do Do. nightyngale syng ful myrie
  Shal y nevre for zyn love lengre karie."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Have God day me lemon," &c.

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Gaveth me no garlond of greene,
  Bot hit ben of Wythones yuroght."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Do Do nyztyngale syng wel miry
  Shal y nevre for zyn love lengre kary."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Hew alas p amo^r
  Oy moy myst en tant dolour."

       *       *       *       *       *

 "Hey how ze chevaldoures woke al nyght."

It is quite evident that these lines were thus prefixed (as is still the custom), to indicate
the air to which the Latin hymns were to be sung. This is also set forth in a memorandum at
the commencement, which states that these songs, Cantilene, were composed by the Bishop of
Ossory for the vicars of his cathedral church, and for his priests and clerks,

    "ne guttura eorum et ora deo sanctificata polluantur cantilenis
    teatralibus turpibus et secularibus: et cum sint cantatores, provideant
    sibi notis convenientibus, secundum quod dictamina requirunt."--Lib.
    Rub. Ossor. fol. 70.

We may, I think, safely conclude that the lines above given were the commencement of the cantilene
teatrales turpes et seculares, which the good bishop wished to deprive his clergy of all excuse
for singing, by providing them with pious hymns to the same airs; thinking, I suppose, like
John Wesley in after years, it was a pity the devil should monopolise all the good tunes. I
shall merely add that the author of the Latin poetry seems to have been Richard de Ledrede,
who filled {386} the see of Ossory from 1318 to 1360, and was rendered famous by his proceedings
against Dame Alice Kyteller for heresy and witchcraft. (See a contemporary account of the "proceedings"
published by the Camden Society in 1843; a most valuable contribution to Irish history, and
well deserving of still more editorial labour than has been bestowed on it.) I have copied
the old English and Norman-French word for word, preserving the contractions wherever they
occurred.

I shall conclude this "note" by proposing two "Queries:" to such of your contributors as are
learned in old English and French song-lore, viz.,

1. Are the entire songs, of which the above lines form the commencements, known or recoverable?

2. If so, is the music to which they were sung handed down?

I shall feel much obliged by answers to both or either of the above Queries, and

 "Bis dat, qui cito dat."

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny, Nov. 1. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISPLACED WORDS IN SHAKSPEARE'S TROILUS AND CRESSIDA.

In that immaculate volume, the first folio edition of Shakspeare, of which Mr. Knight says:
"Perhaps, all things considered, there never was a book so correctly printed"! a passage in
Troilus and Cressida, Act. v. Sc. 3., where Cassandra and Andromache are attempting to dissuade
Hector from going to battle, is thus given:

 "And. O be perswaded: doe not count it holy,
  To hurt by being iust; it is lawful:
  For we would count giue much to as violent thefts,
  And rob in the behalfe of charitie."

Deviating from his usual practice, Mr. Knight makes an omission and a transposition, and reads
thus:

                     "Do not count it holy
  To hurt by being just: it is as lawful,
  For we would give much, to count violent thefts,
  And rob in the behalf of charity."

with the following note; the ordinary reading is

 "'For we would give much to use violent thefts.'"

To use thefts is clearly not Shakspearian. Perhaps count or give might be omitted, supposing
that one word had been substituted for another in the manuscript, without the erasure of the
first written; but this omission will not give us a meaning. We have ventured to transpose
count and omit as:

 "For we would give much, to count violent thefts."

We have now a clear meaning: it is as lawful because we desire to give much, to count violent
thefts as holy, "and rob in the behalf of charity."

Thus giving his reasons: "This line [the third] is so corrupt in the folio 1623, as to afford
no sense. The words and their arrangement are the same in the second and third folio, while
the fourth only alters would to will." Tyrwhitt read:

 "For we would give much to use violent thefts,"

which is objectionable, not merely because it wanders from the text, but because it inserts
a phrase, "to use violent thefts," which is awkward and unlike Shakspeare. The reading I have
adopted is that suggested by Mr. Amyot, who observes upon it: "Here, I think, with little more
than transposition (us being, substituted for we, and would omitted), the meaning, as far as
we can collect it, is not departed from nor perverted, as in Rowe's strange interpolation:

 "For us to count we give what's gain'd by thefts."

The original is one of the few passages which, as it seems to me, must be left to the reader's
sagacity, and of the difficulties attending which we cannot arrive at any satisfactory solution."

Mr. Collier's better judgment has here given way to his deference for the opinion of his worthy
friend; the deviation from the old copy being quite as violent as any that he has ever quarrelled
with in others.

Bearing in mind MR. HICKSON'S valuable canon (which should be the guide of future editors),
let us see what is the state of the case. The line is a nonsensical jumble, and has probably
been printed from an interlineation in the manuscript copy, two words being evidently transposed,
and one of them, at the same time, glaringly mistaken. The poet would never have repeated the
word count, which occurs in the first line, in the sense given to it either by Mr. Collier
or by Mr. Knight.

Preserving every word in the old copy, I read the passage thus:--

 "O! be persuaded. Do not count it holy
  To hurt by being just: it is as lawful as
  (For we would give much) to commit violent thefts
  And rob in the behalf of charity."

"To count violent thefts" here would be sheer nonsense; and when we recollect how easy it is
to mistake comit for count, the former word being almost always thus written and often thus
printed, we must, I think, be convinced that in copying an interlineated MS., the printer misplaced
and misprinted that word, and transposed as, if the repetition of it be not also an error.--"For,"
commencing the parenthesis, "we would give much" stands for cause. The emphasis should, I think,
be {387} laid on for; and commit be accented on the first syllable. Thus the line, though of
twelve syllables, is not unmetrical; indeed much less prosaic than with the old reading of count.

This correction, upon the principle which governs Messrs. Collier and Knight, and which indeed
should govern all of us,

 "To lose no drop of that immortal man,"

ought to be satisfactory; for it is effected without taking away a letter. The transposition
of two evidently misplaced words, and the correction of a letter or two palpably misprinted
in one of them, is the whole gentle violence that has been used in a passage which has been,
as we see, considered desperate. But, as Pope sings:

 "Our sacred Shakspeare,--comprehensive mind!
  Who for all ages writ, and all mankind,
  Has been to careless printers oft a prey,
  Nor time, nor moth e'er spoil'd as much as they;
  Let the right reading drive the cloud away,
  And sense breaks on us with resistless day."

PERIERGUS BIBLIOPHILUS.

October, 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MASTER JOHN SHORNE.

If proof were wanted how little is now known of those saints whose names were once in everybody's
mouth, although they never figured in any calendar, it might be found in the fact that my friend,
Mr. Payne Collier, whose intimate knowledge of the phrases and allusions scattered through
our early writers is so well known and admitted, should, in his valuable Extracts from the
Registers of the Stationers' Company (1557-1570), have illustrated this entry,--

    "1569-70. Rd. of Thomas Colwell, for his lycense for the pryntinge of a
    ballett intituled 'Newes to Northumberlande yt skylles not where, to
    Syr John Shorne, a churche rebell there' ... iiij^d."

by a note, from which the following is an extract:--

    "Sir John Shorne no doubt is to be taken as a generic name for a shaven
    Roman Catholic priest."

Reasonable, however, as is Mr. Collier's conjecture, it is not borne out by the facts of the
case. The name Sir John Shorne is not a generic name, but the name of a personage frequently
alluded to, but whose history is involved in considerable obscurity. Perhaps the following
notes may be the means, by drawing forth others, of throwing some light upon it. In Michael
Wodde's Dialogue, quoted by Brand, we read--

    "If we were sycke of the pestylence we ran to Sainte Rooke; if of the
    ague, to Sainte Pernel or Master John Shorne."

Latimer, in his Second Sermon preached in Lincolnshire, p. 475. (Parker Society ed.), says,--

