On the 14th of July, 1678, La Salle and Tonti embarked at Rochelle with thirty men, and in
two months arrived at Quebec. They took Father Hennepin with them, and hastened on to the great
lakes,[396] where they spent two years in raising forts and building vessels of forty or fifty
tons burden, and carrying on the fur trade with the natives. The party then pushed forward
to the extremity of Michigan. Their friendly relations with the Indians were here interrupted
by a party of the Outagamis having robbed them of a coat. The French held a council to devise
means of deterring the savages from such depredations, and it was somewhat hastily determined
to demand restitution of the coat under the threat of putting the offending chief to death.
The Outagamis, having divided the stolen garment into a number of small pieces for general
distribution, found it impossible to comply with this requisition, and thinking that no resource
remained, presented themselves to the French in battle array. However, through the wise mediation
of Father Hennepin, the quarrel was arranged, and a good understanding restored.

La Salle now set out with a party of forty-four men and three Recollets, to pursue his cherished
object of exploring the course of the Mississippi. He descended the stream of the Illinois,
and was charmed with the beauty and fertility of the banks: large villages rose on each side;
the first, containing 500 wooden huts, they found deserted, but in descending the river they
suddenly perceived that two large bodies of Indians were assembled on opposite banks, in order
of battle. After a parley, however, the Indians presented the calumet of peace, and entertained
the strangers at a great feast.

The discontents among his own followers proved far more dangerous to La Salle than the caprice
or hostility of the savages. They murmured at being led into unknown regions, among barbarous
tribes, to gratify the ambition of an adventurer, and determined to destroy him and return
to France. They were base enough to tell the natives that La Salle was a spy of the Iroquois,
their ancient enemies, and it required all his genius and courage to remove this idea from
the minds of the ignorant savages. Failing in this scheme, they endeavored to poison him and
all his faithful adherents at a Christmas dinner; by the use of timely remedies, however, the
intended victims recovered, and the villains, having fled, were in vain pursued over the trackless
deserts.

La Salle was obliged to return to the forts for aid, on account of the desertion of so many
of his followers; but he sent Father Hennepin, with Dacan and three other Frenchmen, to explore
the sources of the Mississippi, and left Tonti in the command of a small fort, erected on the
Illinois, which he, however, was soon obliged to desert, in consequence of the hostility of
the Iroquois. La Salle collected twenty men, with the necessary arms and provisions, and, unshaken
by accumulated disasters, determined at once to make his way to the Gulf of Mexico down the
course of the Mississippi. He passed the entrance of the swollen and muddy Missouri, and the
beautiful Ohio, and, still descending, traversed countries where dwelt the numerous and friendly
Chickasaw and Arkansaw Indians. Next he came to the Taencas, a people far advanced beyond their
savage neighbors in civilization, and obeying an absolute prince. Farther on, the Natchez received
him with hospitality; but the Quinipissas, who inhabited the shores more to the south, assailed
him with showers of arrows. He wisely pursued his important journey without seeking to avenge
the insult. Tangibao, still lower down the stream, had just been desolated by one of the terrible
irruptions of savage war: the bodies of the dead lay piled in heaps among the ruins of their
former habitations. For leagues beyond, the channel began to widen, and at length became so
vast that one shore was no longer visible from the other. The water was now brackish, and beautiful
sea-shells were seen strewn along the shore. They had reached the mouth of the Mississippi,
the Father of Rivers.

La Salle celebrated the successful end of his adventurous voyage with great rejoicings. Te
Deum was sung, a cross was suspended from the top of a lofty tree, and a shield, bearing the
arms of France, was erected close at hand. They attempted to determine the latitude by an observation
of the sun, but the result was altogether erroneous.

The country immediately around the outlet of this vast stream was desolate and uninteresting.
Far as the eye could teach, swampy flats and inundated morasses filled the dreary prospect.
Under the ardent rays of the tropical sun, noisome vapors exhaled from the rank soil and sluggish
waters, poisoning the breezes from the southern seas, and corrupting them into the breath of
pestilence. Masses of floating trees, whose large branches were scathed by months of alternate
immersion and exposure, during hundreds of leagues of travel, choked up many of the numerous
outlets of the river, and, cemented together by the alluvial deposits of the muddy stream,
gradually became fixed and solid, throwing up a rank vegetation.[397] Above this dreary delta,
however, the country was rich and beautiful, and graceful undulations succeeded to the monotonous
level of the lower banks.

After a brief repose, La Salle proceeded to re-ascend the river toward Canada, eager to carry
the important tidings of his success to France. His journey was beset with difficulties and
dangers. The course of the stream, though not rapid, perpetually impeded his progress. Provisions
began to fail, and dire necessity drove him to perilous measures for obtaining supplies. Having
met with four women of the hostile tribe of the Quinipissas, he treated them with great kindness,
loading them with such gifts as might most win their favor. The chief of the savages then came
forward and invited the French to his village, offering them the much-needed refreshments which
they sought. But a cruel treachery lurked under this friendly seeming, and the adventurers
were only saved from destruction by the careful vigilance of their leader. At daybreak the
following morning, the Indians made a sudden attack upon their guests; the French, however,
being thoroughly on the alert, repulsed the assailants, and slew several of the bravest warriors.
Infuriated by the treachery of the savages, the victors followed the customs of Indian warfare,
and scalped those of the enemy who fell into their power.

As they ascended the river they were again endangered by the secret hostility of the Natchez,[398]
from the effects of which a constant front of preparation alone preserved them. After several
months of unceasing toil and watchfulness, with many strange and romantic adventures, but no
other serious obstruction, the hardy travelers at length joyfully beheld the headland of Quebec.

Immediately after his arrival, La Salle hastened to France to announce his great discovery,[399]
and reap the distinction justly due to his eminent merits. (1682.) He was received with every
honor, and all his plans and suggestions were approved by the court. Under his direction and
command, an expedition was fitted out, consisting of four vessels and 280 men, for the purpose
of forming a settlement at the mouth of the Mississippi, and thence establishing a regular
communication with Canada, along the course of the Great River. At the same time, he received
the commission of governor over the whole of the vast country extending between the lakes and
the Gulf of Mexico. The little squadron sailed from La Rochelle on the 24th of July, 1684,
along with the West India fleet, and having touched at St. Domingo and Cuba by the way, arrived
in safety on the coast of Florida.

La Salle was involved in great perplexity by ignorance of the longitude of the river's mouth.
Not having descended so far in his former expedition as to be able to judge of its appearance
from the sea, he passed the main entrance of the Mississippi unawares, and proceeded 200 miles
to the westward, where he found himself in a bay, since called St. Bernard's. Attracted by
the favorable appearance of the surrounding country, La Salle here founded the fort which was
to be the basis of his future establishment. But difficulties and misfortunes crowded upon
him; the vessel containing his stores and utensils was sunk through the negligence or treachery
of her commander, and a great portion of the cargo lost or seized by the Indians. The violent
measures he adopted to compel restitution of the plundered goods kindled a deep resentment
in the minds of this fierce and haughty tribe, the Clamcoets by name. They made a sudden midnight
attack upon the settlement, slew two of the French, and wounded several, and whenever opportunity
offered afterward, repeated their assaults. The tropical climate, however, proved a far deadlier
foe than even the savage, and at length the spirit of the colonists gave way under accumulated
difficulties.

Meanwhile Tonti, who had descended the Mississippi to join La Salle, sought him in vain at
the mouth of the river, and along the coast for twenty leagues at either side. Having found
no trace or tidings of the expedition, he relinquished the search in despair, and sailed upward
again to the Canadian Lakes.

La Salle bore up with noble courage and energy against the difficulties that surrounded him.
His subordinates thwarted him on every occasion, and at length broke out into a violent mutiny,
which he, however, vigorously suppressed. But when he discovered that the settlement founded
and sustained by his unceasing labors was not, as he had fondly supposed, at the mouth of the
Great River, he experienced the bitterest disappointment. The surrounding country, though fertile,
offered no brilliant prospect of sudden wealth or hopes of future commerce. He determined,
therefore, once again to explore the vast streams of the Mississippi and Illinois, and to endeavor
to gain a greater knowledge of the interior of the continent. He took with him on this expedition
his nephew, a worthy but impetuous youth, named Moranger, and about twenty men. This young
man's haughty spirit excited a savage thirst of vengeance in the minds of his uncle's lawless
followers; they watched their opportunity, and in a remote and dreary solitude in the depths
of the new continent, La Salle and Moranger were both slain by their murderous hands. Thus
sadly perished, in a nameless wilderness, one of the most daring and gifted among those wonderful
men to whom the discovery of the New World had opened a field of glory. His temper was, doubtless,
at times, violent and overbearing,[400] but he was dearly loved by his friends, respected by
his dependents, and fondly revered by those among the Indians who came within his influence.
His greatest difficulties arose from those who were placed under his command, abandoned and
ungovernable men, the very refuse of society, and amenable to no laws, human or divine.

It has been already mentioned that La Salle had sent Dacan and Father Hennepin to explore the
Mississippi, on his first return from the Illinois to Lake Michigan. They descended that great
river almost to the sea; but their followers, becoming alarmed at the idea of falling into
the hands of the Spaniards, compelled them to return without having perfected their expedition.
They re-ascended the stream, and passed the mouths of the Illinois and Wisconsin, and even
reached beyond those magnificent falls to which the adventurous priest has given the name of
St. Anthony. Continual danger threatened these travelers, from the caprice or hostility of
the Indians; they were held for a long time in a cruel captivity, forced to accompany their
captors through the most difficult countries, at a pace of almost incredible rapidity, till,
with their feet and limbs cut and bleeding, they were well-nigh incapable of moving any further.
After some time Hennepin was adopted by a chief as his son, and treated with much kindness;
when winter came on, however, and a great scarcity of provisions arose, the Indians, being
unable any longer to support their captives, allowed them to depart. The father and his companions
used this liberty to continue their explorations down the Mississippi. After many other perils
and adventures, they at length met the Sieur de Luth, who commanded a party sent in search
of them, and with further instructions to form a settlement on the Great River. Hennepin at
first turned back with the sieur, but found so many obstacles and difficulties that he determined
for the present to return to Canada.

The disasters attending the expeditions of La Salle and Hennepin for some time deterred others
from venturing to explore the dangerous regions of the West, and the government totally neglected
to occupy the splendid field which the adventure of those men had opened to French enterprise.
It was left to the love of gain or glory, or the religious zeal of individuals, to continue
the explorations of this savage but magnificent country. The Baron la Hontan was one of the
first and most conspicuous of these dauntless travelers.[401] He had gone to Canada in early
life with a view of retrieving the broken fortunes of his ancient family, and had obtained
employment upon the lakes under the French government. While thus occupied, he became intimately
acquainted with the life and customs of the savages, and, from his intercourse with them, formed
the idea of penetrating into the interior of their country, where the white man's foot had
never before trodden. His actual discoveries were probably not very important, and his record
of them is confused and imperfect; but he was the first to learn the existence of the Rocky
Mountains, and of that vast ocean which separates the western coast of North America from the
continent of Asia.[402]

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 387: "On espéroit beaucoup de la Compagnie des Indes Occidentales, mais elle ne prit
guère plus à coeur les intérêts de la Nouvelle France, que n'avoit fait la précédente, ainsi
que M. Talon avoit prévu. Cependant comme les secours que le Canada avait reçus les dernières
années, l'avoient mis sur un assez bon pied, il s'y conserva quelque tems, et il n'est pas
même retombé depuis dans l'état de foiblesse et d'épuisement dont le roi venoit de le tirer."--Charlevoix,
tom. ii., p. 161.]

[Footnote 388: "Le peuple adoroit Frontenac à cause de sa bonté."--La Potherie, tom. iv., p.
110; Charlevoix, tom ii., p. 246.]

[Footnote 389: The Mississippi.]

[Footnote 390: "Ce lac a porté quelque tems le nom de St. Louis, on lui donna ensuite celui
de Frontenac, aussi bien qu'au fort de Catarocoui dont le Comte de Frontenac fut le fondateur,
mais insensiblement le lac a repris son ancien nom, qui est Huron ou Iroquois, et le fort celui
du lieu où il est bâti (1721)."--Charlevoix, tom. v., p. 287.]

[Footnote 391: "Le Père J. Marquette, natif de Laon en Picardie, a été un des plus illustres
missionnaires du la Nouvelle France; il en a parcouru presque toutes les contrées, et il y
a fait plusieurs découvertes dont la dernière est celle du Micissipi. Deux ans après cette
découverte, comme il alloit à Michillimackinack, il entra le 18me de May, 1675, dans la rivière
dont il s'agit; il dressa son autel sur le terrein bas, qu'on lassia à droite en y entrant,
et il y dit la messe. Il s'éloigna, ensuite un peu pour faire son action de graces, et pria
les hommes qui conduisoient son canot, de le laisser seul pendant une demie heure. Ce tems
passé, ils allèrent le chercher, et furent très surpris de le trouver mort, ils se souvinrent
néanmoins qu'en entrant dans la rivière, il lui étoit échappé de dire qu'il finiroit la son
voyage. Aujourd'hui les sauvages n'appellent cette rivière autrement que la rivière de la robe
noire;[392] les François lui ont donné le nom du Père Marquette, et ne manquent jamais de l'invoquer,
quand ils se trouvent en quelque danger sur le Lac Michigan. Plusieurs ont assuré qu'ils se
croyoient redevables à son intercession, d'avoir echappé à de très grands perils."--Charlevoix,
tom. vi., p. 21.]

[Footnote 392: "Les sauvages appellent ainsi les Jésuites. Ils nomment les Prêtres, les Collets
blancs, et les Recollets, les Robes grises."]

[Footnote 393: Relation de Marquette: Recueil de Thevenot, tom. i.]

[Footnote 394: The signification of the word Ohio is "Beautiful River." According to Bancroft,
it was called the Wabash in La Salle's time, and long afterward.]

[Footnote 395: "La Chine is a fine village three French miles to the southeast of Montreal,
but on the same side, close to the River St. Lawrence. Here is a church of stone, with a small
steeple, and the whole place has a very agreeable situation. Its name is said to have had the
following origin: As the unfortunate M. de Sales was here, who was afterward murdered by his
own countrymen further up the country, he was very intent on discovering a shorter road to
China by means of the River St. Lawrence. He talked of nothing at that time but his now short
way to China; but, as his project of undertaking this journey in order to make this discovery
was stopped by an accident which happened to him here, and he did not at that time come any
nearer China, this place got its name, as it were, by way of joke."--Kalm, in Pinkerton, vol.
xiii., p. 699.]

[Footnote 396: See Appendix. No. LXIV. (see Vol II)]

[Footnote 397: "This is the site of New Orleans. New Orleans, holding, from its position, the
command of all the immense navigable river-courses of interior America, is making the most
rapid progress of any American city, and will doubtless one day become the greatest in that
continent--perhaps even in the world. A formidable evil, however, exists in the insalubrity
of the air, arising from the extensive marshes and inundated grounds which border the lower
part of the Mississippi. The terrible malady that bears the name of the yellow fever, makes
its first appearance in the early days of August, and continues till October. During that era
New Orleans appears like a deserted city; all who possibly can, fly to the north or the upper
country; most of the shops are shut; and the silence of the streets is only interrupted by
the sound of the hearse passing through them. In one year two thousand died of this fever.
Since the morasses have been partially cleared, its ravages have been less destructive; and,
as this work is going on, the city may hope, in time, to be almost free from this terrible
scourge."--Murray's America, vol. ii., p. 428.]

[Footnote 398: "Garcilasso de la Vega parle de cette nation comme d'un peuple puissant, et
il n'y a pas six ans qu'on y comptoit quatre mille guerriers. Aujourd'hui les Natchez ne pourroient
pas mettre sur pied deux mille combattans (1714)."--Charlevoix, tom. vi., p. 177.]

[Footnote 399: "La Louisiane est le nom que M. de la Sale a donné au pays qu'arrose le Mississippi
audessous de la Rivière des Illinois et qu'il a conservé jusqu'à present. C'étoit en l'honneur
de Louis XIV., qui regnoit alors en France."--Charlevoix, tom. ii., p. 436.]

[Footnote 400: Charlevoix thus speaks of the selection of M. de la Salle by M. de Seignelay:
"Il n'est point de vertu qui ne soit mêlée de quelque défaut: c'est le sort ordinaire de l'humanité.
Ce qui met le comble a notre humiliation, c'est que les plus grands défauts accompagnent souvent
les plus éminentes qualités, et que la jalousie que celles-ci inspirent trouve presque toujours
dans ceux-là un spécieux prétexte pour couvrir ce que cette passion a de bas et d'injuste.
C'est à ceux qui sont établis pour gouverner les hommes à se faire jour pour sortir de cette
labyrinthe, à dégager le vrai des ténébres dont la passion veut l'offusquer, et à connoître
si bien ceux dont ils veulent se servir, qu'en leur donnent lieu de faire usage de ce qu'ils
ont de bon, ils se précautionnent sur ce qu'ils ont de mauvais."--Charlevoix, tom. ii., p. 2.]

[Footnote 401: Mémoires de l'Amérique Septentrionale par M. le Baron de la Hontan: à Amsterdam,
1705. For the character of these memoirs, see Charlevoix, tom. vi., p. 408. They are translated
in Pinkerton, vol. xiii.]

[Footnote 402: The North Pacific Ocean. The South Pacific Ocean had been discovered by the
Spaniard Balboa in 1513.]

CHAPTER XIV.

An embittered disagreement between the governor general, Comte de Frontenac, and the intendant,
M. de Cheneau, M. Talon's successor, rendered it necessary to recall both those officers from
the colony. The French court attributed the greater share of blame to the governor, but the
haughty and unbending disposition of the intendant was probably a principal cause of those
untoward disputes. M. le Févre de la Barre and M. de Meules succeeded them in their respective
offices, with special recommendation from the king to cultivate friendly relations with each
other, and with M. de Blénac, the governor general of the French American islands.

New France had for many years remained in a state of great confusion, and had made but little
progress in prosperity or population, and now the prospects of a disastrous war darkened the
future of the colonists. Various causes had united to revive the hostility of the Iroquois,
their ancient and powerful foes. Since New York had fallen into English hands, the savages
found it more advantageous to carry their trade thither than to barter their furs with the
privileged company of France. The falling off of commercial intercourse soon led to further
alienation, which the death of an Iroquois chief by the hands of an Illinois, in the territory
of the Ottawas, then allies of the white men, soon turned into open hostility. The Comte de
Frontenac had failed in his attempts to negotiate with the savages; and on the arrival of his
successor, an invasion of the colony was hourly expected. M. de la Barre at once perceived
the dangerous state of affairs; he therefore summoned an assembly of all the leading men in
the country, ecclesiastical, civil, and military, and demanded counsel from them in the emergency.

