Here should come a business note to John Scott, editor of the London Magazine, dated August
24, 1820, given in the Boston Bibliophile edition.]

LETTER 263A

CHARLES LAMB TO S. T. COLERIDGE

[No date. ? Autumn, 1820.]

Dear C.,--Why will you make your visits, which should give pleasure, matter of regret to your
friends? You never come but you take away some folio that is part of my existence. With a great
deal of difficulty I was made to comprehend the extent of my loss. My maid Becky brought me
a dirty bit of paper, which contained her description of some book which Mr. Coleridge had
taken away. It was "Luster's Tables," which, for some time, I could not make out. "What! has
he carried away any of the tables, Becky?" "No, it wasn't any tables, but it was a book that
he called Luster's Tables." I was obliged to search personally among my shelves, and a huge
fissure suddenly disclosed to me the true nature of the damage I had sustained. That book,
C., you should not have taken away, for it is not mine; it is the property of a friend, who
does not know its value, nor indeed have I been very sedulous in explaining to him the estimate
of it; but was rather contented in giving a sort of corroboration to a hint that he let fall,
as to its being suspected to be not genuine, so that in all probability it would have fallen
to me as a deodand; not but I am as sure it is Luther's as I am sure that Jack Bunyan wrote
the "Pilgrim's Progress;" but it was not for me to pronounce upon the validity of testimony
that had been disputed by learneder clerks than I. So I quietly let it occupy the place it
had usurped upon my shelves, and should never have thought of issuing an ejectment against
it; for why should I be so bigoted as to allow rites of hospitality to none but my own books,
children, &c.?--a species of egotism I abhor from my heart. No; let 'em all snug together,
Hebrews and Proselytes of the gate; no selfish partiality of mine shall make distinction between
them; I charge no warehouse-room for my friends' commodities; they are welcome to come and
stay as long as they like, without paying rent. I have several such strangers that I treat
with more than Arabian courtesy; there's a copy of More's fine poem, which is none of mine;
but I cherish it as my own; I am none of those churlish landlords that advertise the goods
to be taken away in ten days' time, or then to be sold to pay expenses. So you see I had no
right to lend you that book; I may lend you my own books, because it is at my own hazard, but
it is not honest to hazard a friend's property; I always make that distinction. I hope you
will bring it with you, or send it by Hartley; or he can bring that, and you the "Polemical
Discourses," and come and eat some atoning mutton with us one of these days shortly. We are
engaged two or three Sundays deep, but always dine at home on week-days at half-past four.
So come all four--men and books I mean--my third shelf (northern compartment) from the top
has two devilish gaps, where you have knocked out its two eye-teeth.

Your wronged friend, C. LAMB.

[This letter is usually dated 1824, but I think it was written earlier. For one reason, Hartley
Coleridge was not in London in that year, and for another, there are several phrases in the
Elia essay "Two Races of Men" (printed in the London Magazine, December, 1820) that are so
similar to some in this letter that I imagine the letter to have suggested the subject of the
essay, the composition of which immediately followed it.

"Luster's Tables"--Luther's Table Talk.

"More's fine poem." The Psychozoia Platonica, 1642, of Henry More, the Platonist. Lamb seems
to have returned the book, for it was not among his books that he left. Luther's Table Talk
seems also to have been given up.]

APPENDIX

CONSISTING OF THE LONGER PASSAGES FROM BOOKS REFERRED TO BY LAMB IN HIS LETTERS

COLERIDGE'S "ODE ON THE DEPARTING YEAR"
  Starting from my silent sadness
  Then with no unholy madness,
Ere yet the entered cloud forbade my sight,
I rais'd th' impetuous song, and solemnized his flight.
Groans not her Chariot o'er its onward way?"
   When shall scepter'd SLAUGHTER cease?
   Awhile He crouch'd, O Victor France!

ANTISTROPHE II

  On every Harp, on every Tongue
  While the mute Enchantment hung;
  Like Midnight from a thundercloud,
  Spake the sudden SPIRIT loud--
  "Thou in stormy blackness throning
  "Love and uncreated Light,
  "By the Earth's unsolac'd groaning
  "Seize thy terrors, Arm of Might!
  "By Belgium's corse-impeded flood!
  "By Vendee steaming Brother's blood!
  "By PEACE with proffer'd insult scar'd,
  "Masked hate, and envying scorn! By Torture's Howl!
    "Avenger, rise!

EPODE II

  The Voice had ceas'd, the Phantoms fled,
  Yet still I gasp'd and reel'd with dread.
     Away, my soul, away!
In vain, in vain, the birds of warning sing--
And hark!

WITHER'S "SUPERSEDEAS TO ALL THEM, WHOSE CUSTOME IT IS, WITHOUT ANY DESERVING, TO IMPORTUNE
AUTHORS TO GIVE UNTO THEM THEIR BOOKES"

FROM A COLLECTION OP EMBLEMS, 1635

(See Letter 35, page 123)

It merits not your Anger, nor my Blame,
That, thus I have inscrib'd this Epigram:
For, they who know me, know, that, Bookes thus large,
And, fraught with Emblems, do augment the Charge
Too much above my Fortunes, to afford
A Gift so costly, for an Aierie-word:
And, I have prov'd, your Begging-Qualitie,
So forward, to oppresse my Modestie;
That, for my future ease, it seemeth fit,
To take some Order, for preventing it.
And, peradventure, other Authors may,
Find Cause to thanke me for't, another day.
  These many years, it hath your Custom bin,
That, when in my possession, you have seene
A Volume, of mine owne, you did no more,
But, Aske and Take; As if you thought my store
Encreast, without my Cost; And, that, by Giving,
(Both Paines and Charges too) I got my living;
Or, that, I find the Paper and the Printing,
As easie to me, as the Bookes Inventing.
  If, of my Studies, no esteeme you have,
You, then abuse the Courtesies you crave;
And, are Unthankfull. If you prize them ought,
Why should my Labour, not enough be thought,
Unlesse, I adde Expences to my paines?
The Stationer, affoords for little Gaines,
The Bookes you crave: And, He, as well as I
Might give away, what you repine to buy:
For, what hee Gives, doth onely Mony Cost,
In mine, both Mony, Time, and Wit is lost.
What I shall Give, and what I have bestow'd
On Friends, to whom, I Love, or Service ow'd,
I grudge not; And, I thinke it is from them,
Sufficient, that such Gifts they do esteeme:
Yea, and, it is a Favour too, when they
Will take these Trifles, my large Dues to pay;
(Or, Aske them at my hands, when I forget,
That, I am to their Love, so much in debt.)
  But, this inferres not, that, I should bestow
The like on all men, who my Name do know;
Or, have the Face to aske: For, then, I might,
Of Wit and Mony, soone be begger'd, quite.
  So much, already, hath beene Beg'd away,
(For which, I neither had, nor looke for pay)
As being valu'd at the common Rate,
Had rais'd, Five hundred Crownes, in my Estate.
Which, (if I may confesse it) signifies,
That, I was farre more Liberall, than Wise.
  But, for the time to come, resolv'd I am,
That, till without denyall (or just blame)
I may of those, who Cloth and Clothes do make,
(As oft as I shall need them) Aske, and Take;
You shall no more befoole me. Therfore, Pray
Be Answer'd; And, henceforward, keepe away.

PASSAGE FROM GEORGE DYER'S "POETIC SYMPATHIES"

FROM POEMS, 1800

(See Letter 83, page 218)

