  Wake, Lady! wake! thy lover waits,
  Thy steed stands saddled at the gates;
  Here is a garment, rich and rare,
  To wrap thee from the cold night-air;
    Th' appointed hour is flown.
  Danger and doubt have vanish'd quite,
  Our way before lies clear and right,
  And all is ready for the flight,
    Save thou alone!

  Wake, Lady! wake! I have a wreath
  Thy broad fair brow should rise beneath;
  I have a ring that must not shine
  On any finger, Love! but thine--
    I've kept my plighted vow;
  Beneath thy casement here I stand,
  To lead thee by thine own white hand,
  Far from this dull and captive strand--
    But where art thou?

  Wake, Lady! wake! She wakes! she wakes!
  Through the green mead her course she takes;
  And now her lover's arms enfold
  A prize more precious far than gold,
    Blushing like morning's ray;
  Now mount thy palfrey, Maiden kind!
  Nor pause to cast one look behind,
  But swifter than the viewless wind,
    Away! away!

Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GATHERER

  "A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles."
SHAKSPEARE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FILTHY WATER.

If the unhappy victims of mud-juice had constant access to the solar microscope, and there
was occasionally in London a little sunshine to set off the animated bedevilments which are
crowded into the composition, and could see thousands of animals, generated in filth, and living
in the highest spirits and the greatest abundance, in the stuff destined for their stomachs,
they would go mad. Boiled down in tea (for which, in the midst of starvation, a cockney pays
five hundred per cent. beyond its value, and a tax of five hundred per cent. more than that,)
these centipedes, toads, small alligators, large worms, white bait, snails, caterpillars, maggots,
eels, minnows, weeds, moss, offal in detachments, gas-juice, vinegar lees, tallow droppings,
galls, particles of dead men, women, children, horses, and dogs, train-oil, copper, dye-stuff,
soot, and dead fish, are all, according to the chemistry of the washerwomen, neutralized, mollified,
clarified, and rectified--but this we doubt; and if any of the unhappy persons who imbibe nastiness
fourteen times a week, under the idea that it is good and wholesome because it is hot, will
take the trouble to look at the agreeable deposit in the bottom of the "slop-basin," they will
find that independent of all the muddy, fishy, oily, gaseous, animal and vegetable stuff, introduced
into their stomachs under the guise of that most poisonous of all herbs, tea, they are in the
habit of swallowing mud, earth, stones, sand, and gravel, in quantities sufficient to establish
in less than three months spaces of land as big as Cornish freeholds in their insides.--John Bull.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAPOLEON.

While Napoleon was a subaltern in the army, a Russian officer remarked, with much self-sufficiency,
"That his country fought for glory and the French for gain."--"You are perfectly right," answered
Napoleon; "every one fights for that which he does not possess."

INA.

       *       *       *       *       *

FORBIDDEN FRUIT.

Sir Richard Steele, who represented the borough of Stockbridge, Hants, in parliament in the
reign of Queen Anne, carried his election against a powerful opposition, by sticking a large
apple full of guineas, and declaring that it should be the prize of that man whose wife was
first brought to bed after that day nine months. This merry offer procured him the interest
of the ladies, who, it is said, commemorate Sir Richard's bounty to this day, and once made
a vigorous effort to procure a standing order of the corporation, that no man should ever be
received as a candidate who did not offer himself on the same terms.

HALBERT H.

       *       *       *       *       *

EPITAPH ON A SILLY, DRUNKEN SOT.

