"But unfortunately," said d'Autachamps, "it is Danton, Robespierre, and the mob of Paris who
have now the supreme power, and for a time will have their way--they who are wise will lie
by till the storm has blown over."

"And are we to remain quiet while we are robbed of every thing which we esteem as holy?" said
Larochejaquelin; "are we all to acquiesce in the brutality of such men as Danton, for fear
the mob of Paris should be too strong for us?"

"I for one, will not!" said Charette.

"Nor I," said Larochejaquelin--not while I have a sword to draw, and an arm to use it. You
are silent, Charles--is a Republic so much to your mind, that you have not a word, or even
a wish for your King?"

"You are too talkative, Henri," replied the other; "will it not be well to think a little first
before we proclaim definitively what we mean to do? We do not even know as yet in what position
Louis XVI. may find himself tomorrow--he may be more firmly seated on his throne than he has
been at any time since the Three Estates first met at Versailles."

As he ceased speaking, the door opened, and Adolphe Denot entered, hot with walking fast, and
with his whole dress disordered by pushing through the dense masses of the crowd.

"Speak, Adolphe," said Henri, "have they decreed--has it come to the vote?"

"Are they still sitting?" said Fleuriot; "Danton, I am sure would not have yielded so soon
as this:--if the chamber be closed, he must have been victorious."

"The King," said Denot, pausing for breath, "the King is to be taken to the Temple!"

There was a momentary silence among them all--their worst fears had been realized--the brute
force of Paris had been triumphant. The firmness of Roland, the eloquence of Vergniaud, the
patriotism of Guadet had been of no avail. The King of France--the heir of so long a line of
royalty--the King, who had discarded the vices of his predecessors, and proved himself the
friend of. the people, was to be incarcerated in the worst prison in Paris by the vote of that
very Assembly which he had himself called into existence.

"He is to be confined in the Temple," continued Denot, "with the Queen and the two children.
The populace are mad; they would kill him, if they could lay their hands on him."

"Where are your hopes now, Charles?" said Larochejaquelin. "Is it yet time for us to proclaim
what we are--is it yet time for us to move? or are we to set still, until Danton enrolls us
in his list of suspected persons?"

No one immediately answered the appeal of the hot young loyalist, and after a moment or two
de Lescure spoke.

"Adolphe, did you hear the words of the decree?"

"Again and again," said Denot. "I was at the door of the Assembly, and the decree was known
to the crowd the moment the votes had been taken."

"But did you hear the exact words?"

"That Louis and his family should be imprisoned in the Temple," answered Denot.

"Did they say the King, or did they call him by his name?" asked de Lescure again. "Did they
decree that the King should be imprisoned, or Louis Capet?"

As he spoke, the door again opened, and another member, who had been among the crowd, entered
the room.

"Gentlemen," said he, "allow me the honour to congratulate you. Yon do not know your own happiness.
You are no longer the burdened slaves of an effete monarchy; you are now the vigorous children
of a young Republic."

"Vive le Roi, quand meme," said Larochejaquelin, standing up in the middle of the room. "I
am glad they have so plainly declared themselves; we are driven now to do the same. Prince,
now is the time to stand by our King. Charette, your hand; our dreams must now be accomplished.
You will doubt no longer, Charles. Prudence herself would now feel that we have no longer aught
to wait for."

"No--we must delay no longer," said Adolphe Denot. "A King is to be saved; every hour of delay
is an hour of treason, while the King is in the hands of his enemies."

"A fine sentiment, Denot," said d'Autachamps; "but how will you avoid the treason?--how do
you purpose to rescue his Majesty?"

"With my sword," said Adolphe, turning round shortly. "Do you doubt my will?"

"We only doubt your power, Adolphe," said de Lescure. "We only fear you may not be able to
raise the standard of revolt against the armed sections of all Paris, backed by a decree of
the Assembly."

"I can at any rate die in the attempt," replied Denot. "I cannot draw the breath of life from
the atmosphere of a Republic! I will not live by the permission of Messieurs Danton and Robespierre."

"Whatever we do," said Fleuriot, "the club must be given up. We are known to be friendly to
the King, and we are too weak to stand our ground; indeed, we should only incur useless danger
by meeting here"

"And waste the time which we may well employ in the provinces," said Charette.

"You are right, Charette," said Rochejaquelin, whom the wildness of his friend Denot had a
little sobered. "You are quite right--Paris is no longer a place for us. I will go back to
the Bocage; there, at least, I may own among my neighbours that I am not a republican; there,
perhaps, I may make some effort for my King--here I can make none. You will not stay in Paris,
Charles, to hear unwashed revolutionists clatter of Louis Capet?"

"No, Henri, I also will return home. Charette is right. We should but waste our time in Paris,
and be in danger. We shall probably be in safety in Poitou."

"Perhaps not in safety," said Henri. "We may, I trust, soon be in action."

"How in action?" said Fleuriot. "What do you intend to do?"

"To follow any one who will lead me to assist in restoring the King to his throne," replied
Henri. "Let us, at any rate, retire to our provinces; and be assured that the National Assembly
will soon hear of us."

The club was broken up; the young friends met no more in the Rue Vivienne. Within a week from
the 10th of August, the denizens of the municipality had searched the rooms for any relics
which might be discovered there indicatory of a feeling inimical to the Republic; their residences
also were searched, and there were orders at the barriers that they should not pass out; but
the future Vendean leaders had too quickly appreciated the signs of the time; they had gone
before the revolutionary tribunal had had time to form itself. They were gone, and their names
for a season were forgotten in Paris; but Henri Rochejaquelin was right--before long, the National
Assembly did hear of them; before twelve months had passed, they were more feared by the Republic,
than the allied forces of England, Austria, and Prussia.

CHAPTER II

ST. FLORENT

Nothing occurred in the provinces, subsequently called La Vendee, during the autumn or winter
of 1792 of sufficient notice to claim a place in history, but during that time the feelings
which afterwards occasioned the revolt in that country, were every day becoming more ardent.
The people obstinately refused to attend the churches to which the constitutional clergy had
been appointed; indeed, these pastors had found it all but impossible to live in the parishes
assigned to them; no one would take them as tenants; no servants would live with them; the
bakers and grocers would not deal with them; the tailors would not make their clothes for them,
nor the shoemakers shoes. During the week they were debarred from all worldly commerce, and
on Sundays they performed their religious ceremonies between empty walls.

The banished priests, on the other hand, who were strictly forbidden to perform any of the
sacerdotal duties, continued among the trees and rocks to collect their own congregations undiminished
in number, and much more than ordinarily zealous, in their religious duties; and with the licence
which such sylvan chapels were found to foster, denunciations against the Republic, and prayers
for the speedy restoration of the monarchy, were mingled with the sacred observances.

The execution of Louis, in January, 1793, greatly increased the attachment which was now felt
in this locality to his family. In Nantes and Angers, in Saumur, Thouars, and other towns in
which the presence of Republican forces commanded the adhesion of the inhabitants this event
was commemorated by illuminations, but this very show of joy at so cruel a murder, more than
the murder itself, acerbated the feelings both of the gentry and the peasants. They were given
to understand that those who wished well to their country were now expected to show some sign
of gratitude for what the blessed revolution had done for them--that those who desired to stand
well with the Republic should rejoice openly at their deliverance from thraldom. In fact, those
who lived in large towns, and who would not illuminate, were to be marked men--marked as secret
friends to the monarchy--as inveterate foes to the Republic--and they were told that they were
to be treated accordingly. Men then began to congregate in numbers round the churches, and
in the village squares, and to ask each other whether they had better not act as enemies, if
they were to be considered as enemies; to complain of their increasing poverty and diminished
comfort; and to long for the coming time, when the King should enjoy his own again.

The feeling with the country gentry was very generally the same as with the peasantry, though
hitherto they had openly expressed no opposition to the ruling Government. They had, however,
been always elected to those situations which the leaders of the revolution had wished the
people to fill exclusively with persons from their own ranks. They were chosen as mayors in
the small towns, and were always requested to act as officers in the corps of the National
Guards, which were formed in this, as in every other district of France. On this account the
peculiar ill-will of the Republican Government was directed against them. In France, at that
time, political inactivity was an impossibility. Revolt against the Republic, or active participation
in its measures, was the only choice left to those who did not choose to fly their country,
and many of the seigneurs of Anjou and Poitou would not adopt the latter alternative.

In March, the Commissaries of the Republic entered these provinces to collect from that district,
its portion towards the levy of three hundred thousand men which had been ordered by the Convention.
This was an intolerable grievance--it was not to be borne, that so many of their youths should
be forcibly dragged away to fight the battles of the Republic--battles in which they would
rather that the Republic should be worsted. Besides, every one would lose a relative, a friend,
or a lover; the decree affected every individual in the district. The peasants declared that
they would not obey the orders of the Convention--that they would not fight the battles of
the Republic.

This was the commencement of the revolt. The troops of the Republic were, of course, put in
motion to assist the officers who were entrusted with the carrying out of the conscription.
There were garrisons in Nantes, in Anjou, and in Saumur; and detachments from these places
were sent into the smaller towns and villages, into every mayoralty, to enforce the collection
of the levy, and to take off with them the victims of the conscription. Among other places,
an attempt was made to carry out the new law at St. Florent, and at this place was made the
first successful resistance, by an armed force, to the troops of the Convention.

St. Florent is a small town on the south bank of the Loire, in the province of Anjou, and at
the northern extremity of that district, now so well known by the name of La Vendee. It boasted
of a weekly market, a few granaries for the storing of corn, and four yearly fairs for the
sale of cattle. Its population and trade, at the commencement of the war, was hardly sufficient
to entitle it to the name of a town; but it had early acquired some celebrity as a place in
which the Republic was known to be very unpopular, and in which the attachment of the people
to the throne was peculiarly warm.

Here the work of the conscription was commenced in silence. The lists were filled, and the
names were drawn. No opposition was shown to the employe's in this portion of their unpopular
work. Indeed, it appears that no organized system of opposition had been planned; but the first
attempt that was made to collect the unfortunate recruits upon whom the lots had fallen, was
the signal for a general revolt. The first name on the list was that of Peter Berrier; and
had Peter Berrier intended to prove himself a good citizen and a willing soldier, he should,
without further call, have attended that day at the temporary barracks which had been established
in St. Florent. But he had not done so, and there was nothing wonderful or unusual in this;
for on all occasions of the kind many of the conscripts had to be sought out, and brought forth
from the bosoms of their families, to which they retired, with a bashful diffidence as to their
own peculiar fitness for martial glory. But in this instance not one of the chosen warriors
obeyed the summons of the Convention, by attending at the barracks of St. Florent. Not one
of the three hundred thousand men was there; and it was soon apparent to the colonel in command
of the detachment, that he had before him the unpleasant duty of collecting one by one, from
their different hiding-places, the whole contingent which the town of St. Florent was bound
to supply.

Peter Berrier was the first on the list, and as it was well known that he was an ostler at
a little auberge in the middle of the square, a corporal and a couple of soldiers was despatched
to the house of entertainment to capture him; and the trio soon found that they would not have
far to search, for Peter was standing at the gate of the inn yard, and with him three or four
of his acquaintance--men equally well-known in St. Florent.

There was a sturdy farmer there of the better sort--a man who not only held a farm near the
town, but had a small shop within it, for the sale of seeds and tools for planting--his name
was Foret--and it was said that no man in St. Florent was more anxious for the restoration
of the King. There was the keeper of the auberge himself, who seemed but little inclined to
find fault with his servant, for the contumacious manner in which he treated the commands of
the Convention; and there was the well-known postillion of St. Florent, the crack of whose
whip was so welcome from Angers to Nantes, the sound of whose cheery voice was so warmly greeted
at every hostelrie between those towns. The name of Cathelineau was not then so well known
as it was some six months afterwards, but even then Cathelineau, the postillion, was the most
popular man in St. Florent. He was the merriest among the mirthful, the friend of every child,
the playmate of every lass in the town; but he was the comforter of those poorer than himself,
and the solace of the aged and afflicted. He was the friend of the banished priest, and the
trusted messenger of the royalist seigneur; all classes adored him, save those who sided with
the Republic, and by them he had long been looked on as an open and declared enemy. St. Florent
was justly proud of its postillion; and now that evil days were come upon the little town,
that their priests were banished, and these young men called for to swell the armies of the
hated Convention, many flocked to Cathelineau to ask from whence he expected deliverance from
all their troubles.

It was well known that Peter Berrier was the first whom the Colonel's myrmidons would be sent
to seize, and many eyes were resting on the group collected at the gateway of the auberge,
as the corporal and the two soldiers, without their muskets, but with pistols at their belts,
marched across from the little barracks to the spot where they were standing. At any rate,
Cathelineau had not advised a retreat, for there stood Peter Berrier--prominent in the front
of the group--a little pale to be sure, and perhaps rather uneasy in his attitude; but still
evidently prepared to bear the brunt of that day's proceeding. He was not going to run away,
or he would long since have started. He was not going to obey the orders of the Convention,
or he would not have stood there so openly and firmly, waiting the approach of the corporal
and the two soldiers. It was very evident that there was to be a row in St. Florent that day,
and that the postillion approved of it.

As the military party drew near to the gate of the inn yard, the corporal opened a small roll
of paper, which he held in his hand, and standing still about six paces distant from the spot
where Peter was maintaining his ground, read or pretended to read, the following words from
the piece of paper which he held in his hands:

"In the name of the French Republic, and  by command of the Convention, you, Peter Berrier,
having been duly, legally, and specially drawn, chosen, and selected by lot, to serve in the
armies of the Republic for one year, from the date of your first bearing arms, or for so long
as your services may be necessary to the security of the Republic, are hereby required and
desired to join the detachment of the Republican army at present serving in St. Florent, without
let, delay, or hindrance, and thereby show yourself a friend to your country, and a good citizen
of the Republic."

The corporal pronounced this form of invitation in that tone of voice, which proved that it
was very familiar to him, and that he was much in the habit of requesting good citizens to
join the armies of the Republic for such time as their services might be necessary; and, having
finished it, he rolled up the piece of paper, stuck it into his belt, as he might soon require
the use of his hands, and, walking quite close up to the group, said--

"Come, Peter Berrier, you are not such a fool, I hope, as to intend giving us any trouble.
Come along."

Peter looked first into the farmer's face; then to his master's; and, lastly, to the postillion's;
and, seeing that they were all evidently firm in their resolve, he plucked up spirit, and replied.--"Why,
Mr Corporal, I have no inclination just at present to go to fight for the Republic. You see
I have no quarrel yet with my master here, M. Debedin, and he cannot well spare me. I am afraid,
Mr Corporal, I must decline."

"That's nonsense, you know," growled the corporal; "you must come, you know; and as well first
as last. I don't want to be uncivil to a comrade, and I'd be sorry to have to lay a hand on you."

"Then you'd better keep your hands off," said Cathelineau, "we quiet people in St. Florent
don't bear handling well."

The corporal looked up at the postillion, but he soon saw that he wasn't joking.

"Take my word for it, my friend," continued Cathelineau, "Peter Berrier does not wish to be
a soldier, and, if you force him to become one, it is not on the side of the Republic that
he will be found fighting."

"We'll take chances for that," replied the corporal, not exactly understanding what the other
meant; "at any rate, back without him we won't go; and if you're determined for a riot, Messieurs,
why I'm sorry; but I can't help it," and, appealing to Peter as a last hope, he said, "Come,
Berrier, will you come with us quietly, or must we three drag you across the square to the
barracks."

"At any rate, Mr Corporal," said Peter, "I will not go with you quietly; as to the being dragged,
I can say nothing about that yet."

The corporal looked round towards the barracks, as he felt that it was possible that he might
want more assistance, and he saw that a body of men under arms was standing immediately in
front of the building, and that a couple of the officers were with them. The corporal saw at
a glance that they were ready for immediate action, if their services should be requisite.
In fact, the colonel of the detachment well knew the feeling in the place with reference to
the levies of the conscription. He was sure, from the fact of not a single man having attended
at the barracks, as directed, that there existed some general determination to resist the demands
of the Convention, and he had consequently closely watched the proceedings of the corporal.

"Take your answer, Mr Corporal," said Cathelineau: "had Peter Berrier intended to have joined
you. he would not have troubled you to come across the square to fetch him. In one word, he
will not go with you; if as you say, you intend to drag him across the market-place, you will
find that you have enough to do. Peter Berrier has many friends in St. Florent."

The corporal again looked round, and he saw that the men under arms now stretched from the
front of the barracks, nearly into the square; but he also saw that the inhabitants of the
town were standing clustering at all the doors, and that men were crowding towards the square
from the different inlets. Four or five of the more respectable inhabitants had also joined
the group in the gateway, from the hands of one of whom the postillion quietly took a stout
ash stick. The corporal, however, was not a coward, and he saw that, if he intended to return
with Peter Berrier, he should not delay his work with any further parley, so he took his pistol
from his belt and cocked it, and, stepping quite close to Berrier, said,

"Come men--forward, and bring him off; one man to each shoulder," and he himself seized hold
of the breast of Peter's coat with his left hand and pulled him forward a step or two.

Peter was a little afraid of the pistol, but still he resisted manfully: from the corporal's
position, Cathelineau was unable to reach with his stick the arm which had laid hold of Berrier,
but it descended heavily on the first soldier, who came to the corporal's assistance. The blow
fell directly across the man's wrist, and his arm dropt powerless to his side. The corporal
immediately released his hold of Peter's coat, and turning on Cathelineau raised his pistol
and fired; the shot missed the postillion, but it struck M. Debedin, the keeper of the auberge,
and wounded him severely in the jaw. He was taken at once into the house, and the report was
instantaneously spread through the town, that M. Debedin had been shot dead by the soldiery.

The ash stick of the postillion was again raised, and this time the corporal's head was the
sufferer; the man's shako protected his skull, which, if uncovered, would have probably been
fractured; but he was half-stunned, at any rate stupified by the blow, and was pulled about
and pushed from one to another by the crowd who had now collected in the archway, without making
any further attempt to carry off his prisoner.

The other soldier, when he saw his two comrades struck, fired his pistol also, and wounded
some other person in the crowd. He then attempted to make his escape back towards the barracks,
but he was tripped up violently as he attempted to run, and fell on his face on the pavement.
The unfortunate trio were finally made prisoners of; they were disarmed, their hands bound
together, and then left under a strong guard in the cow-house attached to the auberge.

This skirmish, in which Berrier was so successfully rescued, occurred with greater rapidity
than it has been recounted; for, as soon as the colonel heard the first shot fired, he ordered
his men to advance in a trot across the square. It took some little time for him to give his
orders to the lieutenants, and for the lieutenants to put the men into motion; but within five
minutes from the time that the first shot was fired, about forty men had been commanded to
halt in front of the hotel; they all had their muskets in their hands and their bayonets fixed,
and as soon as they halted a portion of them were wheeled round, so that the whole body formed
a square. By this time, however, the corporal and the two soldiers were out of sight, and so
was also Peter Berrier, for Cathelineau considered that now as the man had withstood the first
shock, and had resolutely and manfully refused to comply with the order of the Convention,
it was better that he should be out of the way, and that the brunt of the battle should be
borne by his friends. Peter was consequently placed in the cow-house with the captives, and
had the gratification of acting as guard over the three first prisoners taken in the Vendean war.

Cathelineau and Foret, however, stood out prominently before the men who were collected before
the auberge, and had already taken on themselves the dangerous honour of leading the revolt.

"Men of St. Florent," said the colonel addressing the crowd, "I am most reluctant to order
the soldiers to fire upon the inhabitants of the town; but unless you at once restore the three
men who were sent over here on duty, and give up the man, Peter Berrier, who has been drawn
as a conscript, I will do so at once."

"Peter Berrier is a free man," said Foret, "and declines going with you; and as for your three
soldiers, they have fired at and killed or wounded two inhabitants of the town--they at any
rate shall be brought before the mayor, before they are given up."

"Sergeant," said the colonel, "take out six men and make prisoner that man; if a rescue be
attempted, the soldiers shall at once fire on the people, and on your own heads be your own blood."

The sergeant and the six men instantly stepped out, but Foret was surrounded by a dense crowd
of friends, and the soldiers found it utterly impossible to lay hold of him.

"Your pistols, sergeant; use your pistols," roared the colonel, as he himself drew one of his
own from his holsters, and at the same time gave orders to the men in the ranks to present
their pieces.

The sergeant followed by his six men, made a desperate dash into the crowd with the object
of getting hold of Foret; but in spite of the butt-end of their pistols, with which the soldiers
laid about them, they found themselves overpowered, and were barely able to make good their
retreat to the main body of the detachment; at the same time, a volley of stones, brickbats
and rough missiles of all kinds, descended on the soldiers from every side, for they were now
nearly surrounded; a stone struck the Colonel's horse and made him rear: immediately afterwards,
another stone struck himself on the side of the face, and nearly dismounted him.

"Fire," roared the Colonel, and the whole detachment fired at the same moment; the soldiers
fronting the auberge could not fire into the mob directly before them, or they would have run
the risk of killing their own comrades, who were still struggling there with the townspeople;
and in this way, Cathelineau and Foret were saved, but the carnage all around them was horrid;
the soldiers had fired point blank into the dense crowd, and not a bullet had fallen idle to
the ground. A terrible scream followed the discharge of musketry; the dying and the wounded
literally covered the space round the soldiers, but they were quickly dragged into the back
ground, and their places filled by men who were evidently determined that they would not easily
be conquered.

