When I was a boy, such a portrait, in oil painting, hung upon the south wall of the body of
St. Michael's Church, Cambridge, between the pulpit and a small door to the west, leading into
the south aisle.

Out of the window of the chamber in which the King was kneeling was represented a storm at
sea, and the ship being driven by it upon some rocks.

A few years ago, upon visiting Cambridge, I went purposely to St. Michael's Church to see this
picture, which had been so familiar to me in my boyhood. The clerk told me it had been taken
down, and was in the vestry. In the vestry I found it, on its side, on the floor against the
wall. {138}

You are probably aware that this St. Michael's Church was nearly destroyed by fire not many
weeks since; that a committee is established to arrange its restoration.

Would it not be worth while that some inquiry should be made about the fate of this picture?

R.O.

Dec. 17. 1849.

P.S.--I may add, that there was affixed to the bottom of the frame of the picture a board,
on which was painted, in conformably large letters--

  "LORD, remember David and all his trouble."

  Psalm cxxxii. 1.

The italics in part of the Note above quoted are mine. 53., is a slip of parchment, upon which
is written by the hands of Richard Duke of Gloucester, and Henry Duke of Buckingham, the following
couplet:--

  "Loyaulte me lie
   Richard Gloucestre

  "Souente me souène
   Harre Bokingh'a'm." The meaning of Gloucester's motto is
perfectly free from misapprehension; but he asserts his fidelity to the
crown, which he soon so flagrantly outraged--"Loyalty binds me." In the
work above mentioned, the motto of Buckingham is interpreted by these
words, in modern French:--"Souvent me souviens." This does not appear to
me perfectly satisfactory; and I have to request the opinions of such as
are conversant with old manuscripts, whether the true meaning, or even
the true reading, of the Duke of Buckingham's motto has as yet been
ascertained?

H.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES IN ANSWER TO QUERIES.

Lord Erskine's Brooms.--"G.B." informs us, that the anecdote about Lord Erskine's brooms, and
the apprehension of his servant for selling them without a licence, will be found in his Life
by Lord Campbell (Lives of the Chancellors, vol. vi. p. 618.). Erskine himself attended the
sessions to plead the man's cause, and contended that the brooms were agricultural produce,
or, as he jocosely observed, "came under the sweeping clause." The when is about 1807, and
the where an estate in Sussex, which proved rather an unprofitable speculation to its owner,
as it produced nothing but birch trees, and those but stunted ones. To which information "W.J."
adds, that about the same period Lord Erskine printed, for private circulation, An Appeal in
favour of the agricultural Services of Rooks; a production probably scarce now, but full of
humanity, and very characteristic.

Scarborough Warning.--In a postscript to a letter written from court on the 19th January, 1603,
by Toby Matthew, Bishop of Durham, to Hutton, Archbishop of York, I find the term Scarborough
warning. Can any of the correspondents of your valuable paper inform me of the origin and prevalence
of this saying? The postscript is--

    "When I was in the middest of this discourse, I received a
    message from my lord chamberlaine, that it was his majesty's
    pleasure that I should preach before him upon Sunday next; which
    Scarborough warning did not perplex me, but so puzzled me, as
    no mervail if somewhat be pretermitted, which otherwise I might
    have better remembered."

Quoted in Caldwell's Conferences, p. 166.

W.M.C.

    [NARES tells us, that Ray, on the authority of Fuller, states
    that this saying took its origin from "Thomas Stafford, who, in
    the reign of Mary, A.D. 1557, with a small company, seized on
    Scarborough Castle (utterly destitute of provision for
    resistance), before the townsmen had the least notice of their
    approach;" but shows that it was probably much older, as, in a
    ballad written by J. Heywood on the taking of that place by
    Stafford, the following more probable origin is given to the
    proverb:--

      "This term Scarborow warning grew (some say),
         By hasty hanging for rank robbery theare.
       Who that was met, but suspect in that way,
         Straight he was trust up, whatever he were."

    This implies that Scarborough imitated the Halifax gibbet law.
    Is any thing known of such a privilege being claimed or
    exercised by the men of Scarborough? We should be glad to hear
    from any local antiquary upon this point.]

Gray's Elegy.--In answer to your correspondent, J.F.M. (p. 101.), who asks for information
respecting the competition for the best translation of Gray's Elegy, in which Dr. Sparke was
a candidate, I would beg to refer him to the satirical poem attributed to Mr. T.J. Matthias,
formerly Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, entitled The Pursuits of Literature, in which
a ludicrous account is given of the affair. It does not appear who offered the prize, but Mr.
Nares, the editor of The British Critic, was the judge, and the place of meeting "The Musical
Room in {139} Hanover Square," which was decorated for the occasion with appropriate scenery--at
least so says The Critic. He thus describes the solemnity (p. 174 8th edit. 1798):--

  "Lo, learned clerks in sable stole,
  Graceful in years, pant eager for the goal.
  Old Norbury starts, and, with the seventh-form boys,
  In weeds of Greek the church-yard's peace annoys,
  With classic Weston, Charley Coote and Tew,
  In dismal dance about the mournful yew.
  But first in notes Sicilian placed on high,
  Bates sounds the soft precluding symphony;
  And in sad cadence, as the bands condense,
  The curfew tolls the knell of parting sense."

The distribution of prizes is thus recorded, Dr. Norbury being apparently the "conqueror:"--

  "Nares rising paused; then gave, the contest done,
  To Weston, Taylor's Hymns and Alciphron,
  And Rochester's Address to lemans loose;
  To Tew, Parr's Sermon and the game of goose;
  To Coote the foolscap, as the best relief
  A dean could hope; last to the hoary chief
  He filled a cup; then placed on Norbury's back
  The Sunday suit of customary black.
  The gabbling ceased; with fixed and serious look
  Gray glanced from high, and owned his rival, COOK."

W. Lincoln's Inn, Dec. 17.

Coffee, the Lacedæmonian Black Broth.--Your correspondent "R.O." inquires what modern author
suggests the probability of coffee being the black broth of the Lacedæmonians? The suggestion,
I think, originated with George Sandys, the translator of Ovid's Metamorphoses. Sandys travelled
in the Turkish empire in 1610. He first published his Notes in 1615. The following is from
the 6th edit.

E.B. PRICE.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

THE LAST OF THE VILLAINS.

It would be an interesting fact if we could ascertain the last bondsman by blood--nativus de
sanguine--who lived in this country. The beginning of the seventeenth century is the period
usually referred to as the date of the extinction of personal villenage. In the celebrated
argument in the case of the negro Somerset (State Trials, vol. xx. p. 41), an instance as late
as 1617-18 is cited as the latest in our law books. (See Noy's Reports, p. 27.) It is probably
the latest recorded claim, but it is observable that the claim failed, and that the supposed
villain was adjudged to be a free man. I can supply the names of three who were living near
Brighton in the year 1617, and whose thraldom does not appear to have been disputed. Norden,
from whose unpublished Survey of certain Crown Manors I have extracted the following notice,
adverts to the fact, but seems to think that the times were rather unfavourable to any attempt
by the lord of the manor to put his rights in force.

    "There are three bondmen of bloude belonginge unto this manor,
    never known to be anie way mannumissed, namely, Thomas Goringe,
    William and John Goringe. Thomas Goringe dwells at Amberley,
    William at Piddinghow, and John Goringe at Rottingdean. What
    goods they have the Jurie know not. All poor men. Thomas hath
    the reversion of a cotage now in the tenure of William Jefferye.
    But mee thinks this kinde of advantage is nowe out of season;
    yet, were they men of ability, they might be, upon some
    consideration, infraunchized." (Survey of the Manor of Falmer,
    Sussex.)

I shall be glad to know whether any more recent instance can be pointed out.

E. SMIRKE.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DORE OF HOLY SCRIPTURE.

In Herbert's edition of Ames's Typographical Antiquities, 1785, vol. i. p. 492., is noticed
The Dore of Holy Scripture, 12mo., printed by John Gowghe in 1536; and, at p. 494., a reprint
of the same work is mentioned in 1540, by the same printer, and a description of a copy given
from one then in the possession of Herbert himself. In the preface prefixed by the printer,
he calls the work "the prologue of the fyrste translatoure of the byble out of latyn in to
Englyshe;" and at the end of the work is this note:--"Perused by doctor Taylor and doctor Barons,
Master Ceton and Master Tornor." As I am much interested in the subject to which this publication
refers, may I ask for information on three points?--1. What evidence is there of this edition
of 1536, beyond the statement in Ames? 2. What has become of the copy of the edition of 1540,
formerly belonging to Herbert? and, 3. Who are the persons who peruse and revise the latter
edition? There is not copy of either edition, as far as I can trace, in the British Museum,
in the Bodleian, or at Lambeth.

I may add to these queries the following remarks:--

1. Ames asserted that The Dore of Holy Scripture was among the books prohibited to be read
{140} by the injunctions of Henry the Eighth, and refers, as his authority, to Foxe's Acts
and Monument, ed. 1562, p. 574. Herbert, in a note, questions the fact, and raises a doubt
as to the existence of the passage in Foxe, since it is not in the edition of 1641. I have,
however, the first edition now before me of 1563 (not 1562), and at p. 574., among "the names
of certen bokes whiche after this injunction [namely, of 1539], or some other in the said kinges
dayes were prohybited," occurs, "Item, the doore of holy scripture. made by Jhon. Gowghe."

2. This work was again printed by Crowley in 1550, 12mo., under a different title, namely,
The Pathway to Perfect Knowledge; and in the preface, he falsely ascribes it to John Wycliffe,
and adds, "the original wherof is in an olde English Bible, betwixt the Olde Testament and
the Newe, which Bible remaineth now in the Kyng his Majesties chamber." This Bible appears
to be the identical manuscript copy of the later Wycliffe version of the Scriptures, now preserved
in the University Library, Cambridge, and marked Mm 2. 15. A copy of Crowley's edition is in
the British Museum, but the orthography and language of the tract are modernised.

F.M. B.M., Dec. 19.

       *       *       *       *       *

TURNER'S MS. HISTORY OF WESTMINSTER--CRUCIFIX OF EDWARD THE CONFESSOR.

On April 6. 1708, Henry Turner was elected, by the vestry, organist of St. Margaret's, Westminster,
in the room of the famous "Father Smith" (Bernard Schmidt). As regards his musical capabilities,
Hawkins does not assign him a niche in his Temple of Worthies, although he names some of his
predecessors and successors in that office. One merit we must accord him, that of true antiquarian
love and zeal in all matters regarding "this renowned city." "Great materials are said to have
been collected for a full description (of Westminster), by a parish-clerk of St. Margaret's.
I presume this is Henry Turner, mentioned in Widmore's Account of the Writers of the History
of Westminster Abbey.... His book was only a survey of the city of Westminster, purposely omitting
the history of the (collegiate) church."--Gough, Brit. Top. vol. i. p. 761. Lond. 1780. "The
man's natural parts were very good; he was also very diligent in making enquiries relating
to his subject, and he had collected a great deal."--Widmore's Acc. of Writers of the Hist.
of Westm. Abbey, pp. 6, 7. Lond. 1751. As regards his personal history, I alighted on some
curious notes on a fly-leaf of a transcript of a register: "Henry Turner, borne at Yearely,
Derbyshire, 12. July, 1679: married Eliz. Sabin, of Clement Danes, in St. Margrts. Westmr.
Feb. 26. 1701. by Dr. Onley."

In 1697 it was discovered that some valuable MS. records belonging to the parish, and taken
out of the Tower of London, had been lost by their keeper. This history in its time appears
to have suffered the same fate. However, there is this entry in the Harleian MSS. 7045. fol.
361.: "From the learned Dr. Kennet, Dean of Peterborough's Collection. MSS. MS. H. On Aug.
2. 1708, at Windsor, I read over the History of the Parish of St. Margaret's, Westminster,
drawn up in MS. by one of the parish clerks." Some interesting extracts follow. Compare Aysc.
Add. MSS. Brit. Mus. 4163. fol. 5. Bishop Kennet resided in St. James's Street, in this parish,
and died there on Dec. 19. 1728. I have applied in vain for any account of this MS. to the
librarians of Windsor Castle and Eton College.

Can any of your readers give a clue to its recovery? Are any aware that this survey, which
would be valuable now, still exists? There is an instance, as early as the fifteenth century,
of the union of the offices of lay-clerk and organist in St. Margaret's, in the person of one
Metyngham, and H. Turner also held them at the same time; since, on July 28th, 1713, he was
elected parish-clerk by the vestry, in "consideration of the experience they had of fitness
and diligence in executing the office of deputy-clerk of this parish for several years last
past;" and he did not resign the place of organist until 2nd October, 1718.

May I make another Query?--The gold chain and crucifix, laid in the grave of K. Edward the
Confessor, were removed by Charles Taylor, and given into the hands of King James II. On the
reverse of the same cross was pictured a Benedictine monk, in his habit, and on each side of
him these capital Roman letter,--

On the right limb thus:     and on the left thus:
           (A)                       P.
    Z.      A.     X             A.      C.
            A                        H.

Antiq. of St. Peter's, vol. ii. App. n. iij, Ed. 1722.

What does the inscription mean? Is the former portion to be understood "[Greek: A. O. Zoae
agion Christos]"? What is the import of the latter?

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TALISMAN OF CHARLEMAGNE.

Many years back, "Prince" Louis Napoleon was stated to be in possesion of the talisman of Charlemagne;--"a
small nut, in a gold filigree envelopment, found round the neck of that monarch on the opening
of his tomb, and given by the town of Aachen (Aix-la-Chapelle) to Buonaparte, and by him to
his favourite Hortense, ci-de-vant Queen of Holland, at whose death it descended to her son,"
the present President of the French Republic. {141}

The Germans have a curious legend connected with this talisman. It was framed by some of the
magi in the train of the ambassadors of Aaroun-al-Raschid to the mighty Emperor of the West,
at the instance of his spouse Fastrada, with the virtue that her husband should be always fascinated
towards the person or thing on which it was. The constant love of Charles to this his spouse
was the consequence; but, as it was not taken from her finger after death, the affection of
the emperor was continued unchanging to the corpse, which he would on no account allow to be
interred, even when it became offensive. His confessor, having some knowledge of the occult
sciences, at last drew off the amulet from the inanimate body, which was then permitted to
be buried; but he retained possession of it himself, and thence became Charles's chief favourite
and prime minister, till he had been promoted to the highest ecclesiastical dignity, as Archbishop
of Mainz and Chancellor of the Empire. At this pitch of power, whether he thought he could
rise no higher, or scruples of conscience were awakened by the hierarchical vow, he would hold
the heathen charm no longer, and he threw it into a lake not far from his metropolitan seat,
where the town of Ingethüm now stands. The regard and affection of the monarch were immediately
diverted from the monk, and all men, to the country surrounding the lake; and he determined
on building there a magnificent palace for his constant residence, and robbed all the ancient
royal and imperial residences, even to the distance of Ravenna, in Italy, to adorn it. Here
he subsequently resided and died: but it seems the charm had a passive as well as an active
power; his throes of death were long and violent; and though dissolution seemed every moment
impending, still he lingered in ceaseless agony, till the Archbishop, who was called to his
bed-side to administer the last sacred rites, perceiving the cause, caused the lake to be dragged,
and, silently restoring the talisman to the person of the dying monarch, his struggling soul
parted quietly away. The grave was opened by the third Otto in 997, and possibly the town of
Aachen may have been thought the proper depository of the powerful drug, to be by them surrendered
to one who was believed by many, as he believed himself to be, a second Charlemagne.

So much for the introduction to the following Queries:--1. Can any of your readers say whether
this amulet is still in possession of the President of the French Republic? 2. If so, might
not the believers in the doctrines of Sympathy attribute the votes of the six millions who,
in Dec. 1848, voted in favour of his election, to the sympathetic influence of his "nut in
gold filigree," and be justified in looking upon those who voted for his rivals as no true
Franks? It was originally concocted for a Frankish monarch of pure blood, and may be supposed
to exercise its potency only on those of genuine descent and untainted lineage.

WILLIAM BELL, Phil. Dr.

       *       *       *       *       *

DICK SHORE--ISLE OF DOGS--KATHERINE PEGG.

I entirely concur in the opinion of your able correspondent, Mr. P.
Cunningham, that Pepys's Diary is well deserving all the illustrative
light which may be reflected upon it from your useful pages. In
submitting the following Query, however, my object is to glean a scrap
of information on a point connected with the neglected topography of the
east end of London, taking Pepys for my text. Hence we walked to Dick Shoare, and
    thence to the Towre, and so home."--Vol. i. p. 178. new Ed.

I shall be glad to learn from any of your readers what part of the northern bank of the river,
between Blackwall and the Tower, was called Dick Shore. It is not marked on any of the old
maps of London I have been able to consult; but it was probably beyond the most easterly point
generally shown within their limits. The modern maps present no trace of the locality in question.

The dock-yard visited by Pepys was long one of the most considerable private ship-building
establishments in England. For may years it was conducted by Mr. Perry, and subsequently, under
the firm of Wigram and Green, the property having been purchased by the late Sir Robert Wigram,
Bart. The extensive premises are still applied to the same use; but they have been divided
to form two distinct yards, conducted by separate firms.

The origin of the name (Isle of Dogs), given to the marshy tract of land lying within the bold
curve of the Thames between Blackwall and Limehouse, is still undetermined. The common story
is, that it receives its name from the king's hounds having been kept there during the residence
of the royal family at Greenwich. This tradition is wholly unsupported; nor is it very probable
that the king's hounds would be kennelled in this ungenial and inconvenient place, while they
could be kept on the Kentish side of the river, in the vicinity of Greenwich Castle, then occupying
the site of the present Observatory.

The denominations "isle" and "island" appear to have been bestowed on many places not geographically
entitled to them. The Isle of Dogs, before the construction of the canal which now crosses
its isthmus, was in fact a peninsula.

To the account of Katherine Pegg, given by your correspondents, pp. 90, 91, may be added, that,
besides Charles Fitz-Charles, Earl of Plymouth, she had, by Charles II., a daughter, who died
in her infancy. Mrs. Pegg was one of the three wives of Sir Edward Greene, of Sampford (not
Samford), near Thaxted, Essex, created a baronet 26th July, 1660 (within two months of the
Restoration), to whom she seems to have been not unfitly matched; for it is recorded of him
that, "by his extravagancy and love of gambling, he entirely ruined his estate, and his large
inheritance passed from his family." He had issue two daughters, who married.--See Burke's
Extinct Baronetage.

I do not think that Katherine Pegg, whose son by the King was born in 1657, was "the pretty
woman newly come called Pegg," saluted by Pepys, 7th May, 1668, as Mr. Cunningham surmises.

J.T. HAMMACK.

December.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

The Strand Maypole.--"E.F.R." inquires what was the ultimate fate of the "tall Maypole" which
"once o'erlooked the Strand"? It was taken down about the year 1717, when it was found to measure
a hundred feet. It was obtained by Sir Isaac Newton, and borne on a carriage, for timber, to
Wanstead, in Essex, the seat of the Earl of Tylney, where, under the direction of the Reverend
Mr. Pound Breton, it was placed in the Park, for the erection of a telescope, the largest then
in the world, presented by a French gentleman to the Royal Society.

To Fettle.--What is the derivation of the verb "to fettle?" In the North it means to amend--to
repair--to put a thing, which is out of order, into such a state as to effectuate, or to be
effectual for, its original, or a given purpose; e.g. a cart out of order is sent to the wheelwright's
to be fettled. It has been suggested that the word is a verbalised corruption of the word "effectual."
Bailey, in his Dictionary, has designated it as a north country word: but it is evident that
he misunderstood its entire meaning; for he has merely "to fettle to," and seems to have been
ignorant of the use of the word "fettle" as a verb active. To revert to my former example of
its use--An injured cart is fettled by the wheel-wright; the wheelwright fettles the injured cart.

L.C.R.

Greek Verse.--Can any of your readers inform me who is the author of the line--

"[Greek: Pollai men thnaetois glottai, mia d' athanatoisi]?"

C.

Dr. Dee's petition to James I.--"E.F.R." states that he has lately discovered, in the lining
of an ancient trunk, two or three curious broadsides, one of which purports to be Dr. Dee's
petition to James I., 1604, against the report raised against him, namely, "That he is or hath
bin a Conjurer and Caller, or Invocator of Divels." He would be glad to know whether this curious
broadside has been printed in any memoir of Dr. Dee.

Vondel's Lucifer.--"F." desires to be informed whether the tragedy or dramatic poem Lucifer,
of the Dutch poet Vondel, which has been said to bear some analogy to Paradise Lost, has ever
been translated? and if not, why not? The French writer, Alfred de Vigny, in Stella, calls
Vondel (Wundel in his spelling) "ce vieux Shakspeare de la Hollande."

Discurs Modest.--In Bishop Andrewes' Reply to the Apology of Bellarmine, chap. i. p. 7, ed.
4to. London, 1610, certain jesuits in prison are reported to have confessed, Rem transubstantiationis
patres ne attigisse quidem; as authority for which is quoted Discurs Modest, p. 13. From this
work apparently the passage is copied by Jeremy Taylor, Real Presence, sect. 12. § 16; Dissuasive,
part i. chap. 1. § 5, and part 2. book 2. sect. 3. 3: also by Cosin on Transubstantiation,
chap. 6. § 17. Can any of your readers favour me with a clue to the Modest Discourse?

A.T.

Ptolemy of Alexandria.--"QUERY" wishes to be informed what works of Ptolemy of Alexandria are
to be met with in an English translation.

Vanbrugh's London Improvements.--In the London Journal of March 16th, 1722-23, there is the
following paragraph:--

    "We are informed that Sir John Vanbrugh, in his scheme for new
    paving the cities of London and Westminster, among other things,
    proposes a tax on all gentlemen's coaches, to stop all channels
    in the street, and to carry all the water off by drains and
    common sewers under ground."

Sir John Vanbrugh was chiefly known as an architect of noblemen's and gentlemen's mansions.
Can any of your readers supply me with a reference to any detailed plan, from Sir John, for
the general improvement of the metropolis?

B.M.

Becket's Grace-Cup.--The inscription round the neck of this so-called cup, of which a representation
is given in No. 1. of Mr. Scott's Antiquarian Gleanings, is thus printed by him--GOD FERARE--:
to which he adds, in explanation, "probably the name of the goldsmith." {143} At the foot of
an earlier print of this relic, the inscription is given thus--FERARE GOD--and till the appearance
of Mr. Scott's version, I had considered the former word as an accidental error of the engraver,
instead of FEARE; which would present a moral motto, suiting the SOBRII ESTOTE round the lid.--As
Mr. Nichols, in his recent interesting work on Pilgrimages to Walsingham and Canterbury, noticing
the misnomer of the cup (p. 229, n.), indicates its date to be of "the early part of the sixteenth
century," perhaps some one of your well-informed readers could state if any artist-goldsmith
of that era, and of that name, be known.

ALICUI.

Sir Henry Herbert's Office-Book.--I should be glad to know if any of your readers can tell
me the "whereabouts" of Sir Henry Herbert's Office-Book, a MS. frequently referred to by Malone,
Chalmers, and Collier. Sir Henry Herbert was Master of the Revels to King James the First,
and the two succeeding kings, and the said MS. contains an account of almost every piece exhibited
at any of the theatres from August, 1623, to the commencement of the rebellion in 1641. Malone,
in his Historical Account of the English Stage (edit. Boswell, iii. 57.), says, in a note--

    "For the use of this very curious and valuable manuscript I am
    indebted to Francis Ingram, of Ribbisford, near Bewdley, in
    Worcestershire, Esq., Deputy Remembrancer in the Court of the
    Exchequer. It has lately been found in the same old chest which
    contained the manuscript Memoirs of Lord Herbert of Cherbury,
    from which Mr. Walpole, about twenty years ago, printed the life
    of that nobleman, who was elder brother to Sir Henry Herbert."

In another place, Malone adds:--

    "This valuable manuscript, having lain for a considerable time
    in a damp place, is unfortunately damaged, and in a very
    mouldering condition; however, no material part of it appears to
    have perished."

Such being the case, it becomes more than ever desirable that this interesting volume should
be sought after, and the whole of its contents put on record before its total decay. Surely,
if its depositary is known, and accessible, it is well worth the attention of the Shakespeare
Society, or some other learned body instituted for the preservation of documents of this nature.

A biographical account of the various persons that have held the appointment of "Master of
the Revels," with such particulars of the stage as would necessarily fall in, would form a
valuable Prolegomena to the publication of Sir Henry's Office-Book. We have, it is true, much
information upon this subject, but in a very scattered form.

I have now before me a list of the "Masters of the Revells," with the dates of their patents,
which I beg to transcribe. It is of more than ordinary value, being in the handwriting of Sir
Henry Herbert himself, and copied at the back of the worthy knight's "Petition to Charles the
Second against the Grant to Killegrew and Davenant to form Two Companies of Players."

"Masters of ye Revells.

"Sir Richard Guilford    - not on record. Sir Thomas Cawerden      - [1544] 36 Henry VIII.
Sir Thomas Beneger       - not on record. Sir John Fortescue       - not on record. Edmund
Tilney, Esq.      - July 24 [1578] 21 Eliz. Sir George Buck          - June 23 [1603] I Jac.
Sir John Astley          - [1612] 10 Jac. I. Benjamin Johnson         - [1617] 15 Jac. I. Sir
Henry Herbert, and} Simon Thelwall, Esq.  }  - Aug. 21 [1629] 5 Car. I."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT. DR. BROOK TAYLOR'S PERSPECTIVE. 1st edit. 1715.

2. DR. AUSTIN'S CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF EUCLID. (Date not known.)

3. DR. ABRAHAM ROBERTSON ON RATIO AND PROPORTION. Oxford. 1804.

4. LAWSON'S DISSERTATION ON THE ANALYSIS OF THE ANTIENTS. Edited by Fryer, and printed in Bristol,
1809.--[The particular copy wanted is interleaved with thick paper and MS. alterations by the
Editor. 1. 2. 3. and 4., so that our subscribers have now an opportunity of completing their sets.

Our correspondent who inquired respecting the Life and Diary of Haydon the Painter, is informed
that its publication is suspended for the present.

       *       *       *       *       * {144}

This day is published, price 6s.,

THE PILGRIMAGES OF WALSINGHAM and CANTERBURY: by DESIDERIUS ERASMUS. Being his Colloquy on
Pilgrimage, translated and illustrated with Notes, by JOHN GOUGH NICHOLS, F.S.A.; together
with the Colloquy on Rash Vows, and the Characters of Archbishop Warham and Dean Collet, by
the same Author.

"This entertaining little volume will afford to many a reader not only much information on
the subject of Pilgrimages, but also numerous illustrations of the feelings and habits of the
times."--Athenæum.

"We can conceive no more perfect translation than Mr. Nichols has given; most delicately does
he express the quiet eloquence and quieter irony of the original; while his Notes--which occupy
about three-fourths of the handsome volume--are full of the most curious, learned, and interesting
matter."--Weekly News.

"In the Appendix, Mr. Nichols gives a very interesting dissertation on pilgrimages in general,
and furnishes us with much curious information relative to Walsingham, and a judicious summary
of facts and circumstances connected with the murder of Archbishop Becket."-- Salisbury Journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE.

