"Read? No. Why should he read? What was the use of reading? The thing you wanted to do was
to remember. Now he, if he was doctoring any one, he would try first this herb and then that.
This herb no good. Try another. Another no good. Another no good. He might try twelve herbs,
and all no good. And the thirteenth herb would be good. And then he would remember that herb.
Why! all his doctoring he taught himself . . ."

A rough sort of doctoring it is too, consisting of two remedies--a violent purge, or else burning
with a hot iron. Every sore place is burnt; and for all sorts of illnesses, in cases of rheumatism,
etc., etc., the patient is scored, perhaps all over his chest or back--"fired" like a horse.
Sores are always cauterized. Bullets are never extracted. Wounds are bound up with earth and
rags. A serious gunshot wound, means death. Certainly there is a wide field for women doctors
in Morocco.

From this house we went on to one where the father, mother, and children were all having a
meal--a poverty-stricken family again, where one of the children was wasting away with fever.
The rest of the party were sitting round an earthenware pan, which was full of mallow leaves,
stewed in native oil, with red pepper and garlic in huge quantities. They were dipping in their
fingers, fishing out the greasy mallow and garlic, and laying it on their brown native bread
and eating it. They insisted upon our joining them. It is no excuse to say "I have dined lately,"
for a Moor eats at any time, when there happens to be food. Miss Banks tasted the stew with
a heroism worthy the noblest end.

We went on to the house of a man who has one of the best shops in Tetuan. It was consequently
comfortable, and delightfully fresh-looking. The master of the house was in bed with fever--that
is to say, we found him reclining on a divan on the floor, beside a gorgeous bed, with a lily-white
turban fresh from the wash-tub wound round his head. We sat down on the divan running round
the room, and Miss Banks was glad to hear that her patient had at last consented to take quinine.
He was worn-looking, with small black beard and moustache. Moors, like every effete people,
are unable to grow a great quantity of hair on their faces.

After visiting her cases Miss Banks suggested something of a change, and we turned into the
best part of Tetuan, to pay a call upon one of the first families in Morocco, the head of which
is now dead. B---- was probably the most wealthy and enlightened Moor in the city: he was once
employed by Government, and he made his little pile; but he had never married--or, rather,
his only marriage had ended in a speedy divorce; and most of his life he had been able to afford
to keep a galaxy of slaves, whom he had freed in time, and whose offspring represent the family
to-day.

The name of the chief of his slaves, and the mistress of the dead man's house at the present
moment, is Fatima. Fatima has a history. B---- possessed twenty white slaves: they were chiefly
stolen from villages in the south, and they passed into his hands; but his treasures were two
beautiful Circassian women from Turkey, one of whom he sent to the late Sultan (who is the
mother of the present Sultan), the other he kept for himself--Fatima. Fatima early showed a
disposition far from humble, and B---- spoilt her. At last he made her head of his house and
all his slaves. One day she caused two of these women to be beaten in such a manner that one
of them died. The other vowed revenge; went to B----, and told him that she had seen Fatima
looking through a window at a man in the garden below. Considering that a woman of superior
class must not look out of her window, though the prospect be an arid yard, the statement was
calculated to rouse B----. Brought up on such proverbs as "When the bee hums and the buttermilk
ferments, place, O brother, a halter on thy little daughter," and to consider women "the nearest
roads to hell," B----took prompt and drastic measures. He chained Fatima up to a pillar for
three months, and fed her on bread and water. Her eldest daughter was to be married. Fatima
was released and told she might attend the wedding, but only as the equal of the lowest slave,
and dressed as such. She said that she had been accustomed to mixing with the first-born of
Tetuan as an equal, and she would go among them as nothing else. To break Fatima's pride, B----
married a wife; but the wiles of his old favourite were too strong for him, and he gave her
presents, including a gold bracelet. The indignant wife, furious at her husband's attentions
to a mere slave, got a divorce and left B----; whereupon he fell into the arms of Fatima, and
she graciously consented to become once more head of his house. She is now the proudest woman
in Tetuan, inclined to look upon the missionaries and European women in general as dust under
her feet. Her ignorance is unbounded. "India!" she said to Miss Hubbard. "You say all India
belongs to you English. You may well wish it did. You've only got one port."

Meanwhile, we had reached the door of this famous lady's house, and were clanging the great
knocker. It was superior to any door we had "wakened" that afternoon--made of pale, cinnamon-coloured
wood, and immensely wide, carved up above and brightened with great fork-like hinges and nail-heads
as large as pennies. A vastly stout slave, smart in proportion, opened the door, and said something
in Arabic to Miss Banks, which, translated, intimated that a large tea party was going on within.
She led us along far-reaching, wide passages, which at length opened out into an extensive
patio, paved with great black and white marble tiles, like a giant chess-board. A double row
of finely tiled pillars supported the roof, and a fountain shot up water in the centre of all.
The style of the building suggested that the dead man had known how to spend some of his money,
and to make for himself a place refined and romantic rather than gorgeous.

Stepping down the cool aisles between the pillars, the slave took us towards a room opening
out of the patio; and such a room!--hung with embroideries, surrounded with luxurious divans
worked in scarlet and white, carpeted with deep-piled carpets, and yet no more than a mere
setting for the fantastic butterfly world which seemed let loose inside. Tetuan's most aristocratic
women, scented favourites of Moorish society, kept in lavender and reared on sugar and orange-flower
water, are not among those things which one easily forgets. About twelve of them or more--enough
to dazzle and not bewilder, furnish to perfection yet avoid a crush--were half reclining on
the divans round the room. Fatima was on our immediate left as we entered; a holy Shar[=i]fa
on the right; the daughter of another Shar[=i]f sat beyond her. The circle was one of Sanctity
and Rank.

We shook hands with the mistress of the house, and were motioned to take our seats on the divan
exactly opposite her.

Fatima was no disappointment. She suggested much, and more than fulfilled the promise of her
history. She was pale and dark, with a little head like a snake's, thin sarcastic lips, and
eyes full of smouldering devil. Two silver trays stood in front of her, covered with fragile
porcelain cups and thin gilded cut-glass, with a silver-topped box full of fragrant mint, another
quaint box containing fine green tea, an enormous cut-glass sugar-basin heaped with small rocks
of white sugar, two silver embossed and steaming teapots, some scent-sprinklers and incense-burners
of silver. At her elbow, on the floor, was the largest silver urn I ever saw, capable of supplying
half a dozen school feasts; down the room, in a line, upon the carpets, stood round baskets,
three feet in diameter, filled with palest cream-coloured bracelet-shaped loaves of bread,
made of too fine and white a flour and too perfectly baked for any but the upper ten to indulge
in. The centre basket contained perhaps fifty cakes--nothing on a small scale here--made of
thin flaked pastry, iced over with sugar, filled with a confectionery of almonds, and quinces,
and raisins, and orange-flower water, and an essence, one drop of which cost five shillings.
These take a day to make, and are only met with in an elaborate ménage. Other tarts, lavishly
coated with a snow of white sugar, contained jams and nuts and all the sweet things dear to
the Moorish heart.

The movements of Fatima's small hands among the cups, covered with rings, each polished nail
just touched with a half-moon of dark red henna, were born of dolce far niente, backed by a
long line famous for their beauty: her restless black eyes alternately gleamed with cruelty
and cunning; flashed with passion; grew sad as it is given to few eyes to grow.

Many embroidered buttons, as edgings in front, betokened garment within garment, which she
wore, all of them at last confined by a broad, richly worked belt; her kaftan was of lemon-yellow,
shining with silver borderings; the muslin "overall" was the thinnest atmosphere of white;
there were many necklaces, chiefly pearl, round her neck, and, most characteristic of all,
a tiny yellow silk handkerchief was knotted once round her throat; on her black head, colour
ran riot in silks of all shades, tied and twisted and arranged as only a Moorish hand knows;
her feet were wrapped in a soft pale yellow shawl, embroidered. She did not get up when we came in.

Multiply Fatima twelve times, in colours more opulent and more bizarre than her own, instead
of her lithe figure, picture stone upon stone of sleek flesh, and some idea of the epicureanism
of the scene is arrived at. Sitting on each side of us were two of the fattest women I have
ever seen.

Meanwhile, Fatima signed to a slave to carry across the cups of tea which she had poured out,
together with thin china plates; then we were supplied with the fine sweet bread. Miss Banks
explained that I was not a tabiba (doctor). Fatima told her I was to ask about anything which
I did not understand, and with interpretations we carried on trifling conversation. It was
like stepping into "The Arabian Nights" come to life. These women seldom go out of doors, or,
if they do, nothing is to be seen of them except a figure in an immense creamy woollen haik
from top to toe, heavily veiled: possibly a pair of haunting eyes and beautiful slippers suggest
an attractive "beyond." But here were we "i' the centre of the labyrinth," where mere men can
never go; in a maze of hot imperious colour; in a world of ivory-tinted faces, flowing lines,
and stately gestures; among abandon such as one little dreams of in a Mohammedan double-locked
world.

They lie at the ends of the pole, the women of Morocco: the countrywomen, beasts of burden;
the wives of the rich, sumptuously fed and caparisoned lap-dogs.

Amidst such a show of silk and embroidery no English-woman, in the utilitarian coat and skirt
best fitted for travel, could feel other than out of place, nor resist the weak desire that
the imperious Fatima and her circle should have another impression of our countrywomen made
upon their ignorant minds than that given by short skirts and nailed boots--say, Covent Garden
one night when the opera has drawn all the diamonds in town.

I remember the Moorish French Consul, in the Tetuan post-office, saw R. writing a card in there
once.

"What a great thing it is," he said to Mr. Bewicke, "that your women can write and can arrange
things for themselves. I go away; my wife cannot write to me. Our women are just like animals."

