Transcriber's Note:

  The accenting of the Japanese names is not consistent throughout the
  book. The accents are preserved as given in the book.

                         Japanese Literature

                      INCLUDING SELECTIONS FROM

                           GENJI MONOGATARI

                                 AND

                      CLASSICAL POETRY AND DRAMA

                               OF JAPAN

              WITH CRITICAL AND BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES BY

                       EPIPHANIUS WILSON, A.M.

                           REVISED EDITION

                           COPYRIGHT, 1900
                        BY THE COLONIAL PRESS

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

GENJI MONOGATARI

Introduction

CHAPTER

   I.--The Chamber of Kiri

  II.--The Broom-like Tree

 III.--Beautiful Cicada

  IV.--Evening Glory

   V.--Young Violet

  VI.--Saffron Flower

 VII.--Maple Fête

VIII.--Flower-Feast

  IX.--Hollyhock

   X.--Divine Tree

  XI.--Villa of Falling Flowers

 XII.--Exile at Suma

XIII.--Exile at Akashi

 XIV.--The Beacon

  XV.--Overgrown Mugwort

 XVI.--Barrier House

XVII.--Competitive Show of Pictures

CLASSICAL POETRY OF JAPAN

Introduction

BALLADS--

  The Fisher-Boy Urashima

  On Seeing a Dead Body

  The Maiden of Unáhi

  The Grave of the Maiden of Unáhi

  The Maiden of Katsushika

  The Beggar's Complaint

  A Soldier's Regrets on Leaving Home

LOVE SONGS--

  On Beholding the Mountain

  Love is Pain

  Hitomaro to His Mistress

  No Tidings

  Homeward

  The Maiden and the Dog

  Love is All

  Husband and Wife

  He Comes Not

  He and She

  The Pearls

  A Damsel Crossing a Bridge

  Secret Love

  The Omen

  A Maiden's Lament

  Rain and Snow

  Mount Mikash

  Evening

ELEGIES--

  On the Death of the Mikado Tenji

  On the Death of the Poet's Mistress

  Elegy on the Poet's Wife

  On the Death of Prince Hinami

  On the Death of the Nun Riguwañ

  On the Poet's Son, Furubi

  Short Stanza on the Same Occasion

MISCELLANEOUS POEMS--

  View from Mount Kago

  The Mikado's Bow

  Spring and Autumn

  Spring

  Recollections of My Children

  The Brook of Hatsúse

  Lines to a Friend

  A Very Ancient Ode

  The Bridge to Heaven

  Ode to the Cuckoo

  The Ascent of Mount Tsukúba

  Couplet

SHORT STANZAS

THE DRAMA OF JAPAN

Nakamitsu

Abstraction

       *       *       *       *       *

GENJI MONOGATARI

BY

MURASAKI SHIKIB

[Translated into English by Suyematz Kenchio]

INTRODUCTION

BY THE TRANSLATOR

Genji Monogatari,[1] the original of this translation, is one of the standard works of Japanese
literature. It has been regarded for centuries as a national treasure. The title of the work
is by no means unknown to those Europeans who take an interest in Japanese matters, for it
is mentioned or alluded to in almost every European work relating to our country. It was written
by a lady, who, from her writings, is considered one of the most talented women that Japan
has ever produced.

She was the daughter of Fujiwara Tametoki, a petty Court noble, remotely connected with the
great family of Fujiwara, in the tenth century after Christ, and was generally called Murasaki
Shikib. About these names a few remarks are necessary. The word "Shikib" means "ceremonies,"
and is more properly a name adopted, with the addition of certain suffixes, to designate special
Court offices. Thus the term "Shikib-Kiô" is synonymous with "master of the ceremonies," and
"Shikib-no-Jiô" with "secretary to the master of the ceremonies." Hence it might at first sight
appear rather peculiar if such an appellation should happen to be used as the name of a woman.
It was, however, a custom of the period for noble ladies and their attendants to be often called
after such offices, generally with the suffix "No-Kata," indicating the female sex, and somewhat
corresponding to the word "madam." This probably originated in the same way as the practice
in America of calling ladies by their husbands' official titles, such as Mrs. Captain, Mrs.
Judge, etc., only that in the case of the Japanese custom the official title came in time to
be used without any immediate association with the offices themselves, and often even as a
maiden name. From this custom our authoress came to be called "Shikib," a name which did not
originally apply to a person. To this another name, Murasaki, was added, in order to distinguish
her from other ladies who may also have been called Shikib. "Murasaki" means "violet," whether
the flower or the color. Concerning the origin of this appellation there exist two different
opinions. Those holding one, derive it from her family name, Fujiwara; for "Fujiwara" literally
means "the field of Wistaria," and the color of the Wistaria blossom is violet. Those holding
the other, trace it to the fact that out of several persons introduced into the story, Violet
(Murasaki in the text) is a most modest and gentle woman, whence it is thought that the admirers
of the work transferred the name to the authoress herself. In her youth she was maid of honor
to a daughter of the then prime minister, who became eventually the wife of the Emperor Ichijiô,
better known by her surname, Jiôtô-Monin, and who is especially famous as having been the patroness
of our authoress. Murasaki Shikib married a noble, named Nobtaka, to whom she bore a daughter,
who, herself, wrote a work of fiction, called "Sagoromo" (narrow sleeves). She survived her
husband, Nobtaka, some years, and spent her latter days in quiet retirement, dying in the year
992 after Christ. The diary which she wrote during her retirement is still in existence, and
her tomb may yet be seen in a Buddhist temple in Kiôto, the old capital where the principal
scenes of her story are laid.

The exact date when her story was written is not given in the work, but her diary proves that
it was evidently composed before she arrived at old age.

The traditional account given of the circumstances which preceded the writing of the story
is this: when the above-mentioned Empress was asked by the Saigû (the sacred virgin of the
temple of Ise) if her Majesty could not procure an interesting romance for her, because the
older fictions had become too familiar, she requested Shikib to write a new one, and the result
of this request was this story.

The tradition goes on to say that when this request was made Shikib retired to the Buddhist
temple in Ishiyama, situated on hilly ground at the head of the picturesque river Wooji, looking
down on Lake Biwa. There she betook herself to undergo the "Tooya" (confinement in a temple
throughout the night), a solemn religious observance for the purpose of obtaining divine help
and good success in her undertaking. It was the evening of the fifteenth of August. Before
her eyes the view extended for miles. In the silver lake below, the pale face of the full moon
was reflected in the calm, mirror-like waters, displaying itself in indescribable beauty. Her
mind became more and more serene as she gazed on the prospect before her, while her imagination
became more and more lively as she grew calmer and calmer. The ideas and incidents of the story,
which she was about to write, stole into her mind as if by divine influence. The first topic
which struck her most strongly was that given in the chapters on exile. These she wrote down
immediately, in order not to allow the inspiration of the moment to be lost, on the back of
a roll of Daihannia (the Chinese translation of Mahâprajñâpâramitâ, one of the Buddhist Sûtras),
and formed subsequently two chapters in the text, the Suma and Akashi, all the remaining parts
of the work having been added one by one. It is said that this idea of exile came naturally
to her mind, because a prince who had been known to her from her childhood had been an exile
at Kiûsiû, a little before this period.

It is also said that the authoress afterwards copied the roll of Daihannia with her own hand,
in expiation of her having profanely used it as a notebook, and that she dedicated it to the
Temple, in which there is still a room where she is alleged to have written down the story.
A roll of Daihannia is there also, which is asserted to be the very same one copied by her.

How far these traditions are in accordance with fact may be a matter of question, but thus
they have come down to us, and are popularly believed.

Many Europeans, I daresay, have noticed on our lacquer work and other art objects, the representation
of a lady seated at a writing-desk, with a pen held in her tiny fingers, gazing at the moon
reflected in a lake. This lady is no other than our authoress.

The number of chapters in the modern text of the story is fifty-four, one of these having the
title only and nothing else. There is some reason to believe that there might have existed
a few additional chapters.

Of these fifty-four chapters, the first forty-one relate to the life and adventures of Prince
Genji; and those which come after refer principally to one of his sons. The last ten are supposed
to have been added by another hand, generally presumed to have been that of her daughter. This
is conjectured because the style of these final chapters is somewhat dissimilar to that of
those which precede. The period of time covered by the entire story is some sixty years, and
this volume of translation comprises the first seventeen chapters.

The aims which the authoress seems always to have kept in view are revealed to us at some length
by the mouth of her hero: "ordinary histories," he is made to say, "are the mere records of
events, and are generally treated in a one-sided manner. They give no insight into the true
state of society. This, however, is the very sphere on which romances principally dwell. Romances,"
he continues, "are indeed fictions, but they are by no means always pure inventions; their
only peculiarities being these, that in them the writers often trace out, among numerous real
characters, the best, when they wish to represent the good, and the oddest, when they wish
to amuse."

From these remarks we can plainly see that our authoress fully understood the true vocation
of a romance writer, and has successfully realized the conception in her writings.

The period to which her story relates is supposed to be the earlier part of the tenth century
after Christ, a time contemporary with her own life. For some centuries before this period,
our country had made a signal progress in civilization by its own internal development, and
by the external influence of the enlightenment of China, with whom we had had for some time
considerable intercourse. No country could have been happier than was ours at this epoch. It
enjoyed perfect tranquillity, being alike free from all fears of foreign invasion and domestic
commotions. Such a state of things, however, could not continue long without producing some
evils; and we can hardly be surprised to find that the Imperial capital became a sort of centre
of comparative luxury and idleness. Society lost sight, to a great extent, of true morality,
and the effeminacy of the people constituted the chief feature of the age. Men were ever ready
to carry on sentimental adventures whenever they found opportunities, and the ladies of the
time were not disposed to disencourage them altogether. The Court was the focus of society,
and the utmost ambition of ladies of some birth was to be introduced there. As to the state
of politics, the Emperor, it is true, reigned; but all the real power was monopolized by members
of the Fujiwara families. These, again, vied among themselves for the possession of this power,
and their daughters were generally used as political instruments, since almost all the Royal
consorts were taken from some of these families. The abdication of an emperor was a common
event, and arose chiefly from the intrigues of these same families, although partly from the
prevailing influence of Buddhism over the public mind.

Such, then, was the condition of society at the time when the authoress, Murasaki Shikib, lived;
and such was the sphere of her labors, a description of which she was destined to hand down
to posterity by her writings. In fact, there is no better history than her story, which so
vividly illustrates the society of her time. True it is that she openly declares in one passage
of her story that politics are not matters which women are supposed to understand; yet, when
we carefully study her writings, we can scarcely fail to recognize her work as a partly political
one. This fact becomes more vividly interesting when we consider that the unsatisfactory conditions
of both the state and society soon brought about a grievous weakening of the Imperial authority,
and opened wide the gate for the ascendency of the military class. This was followed by the
systematic formation of feudalism, which, for some seven centuries, totally changed the face
of Japan. For from the first ascendency of this military system down to our own days everything
in society--ambitions, honors, the very temperament and daily pursuits of men, and political
institutes themselves--became thoroughly unlike those of which our authoress was an eye-witness.
I may almost say that for several centuries Japan never recovered the ancient civilization
which she had once attained and lost.

Another merit of the work consists in its having been written in pure classical Japanese; and
here it may be mentioned that we had once made a remarkable progress in our own language quite
independently of any foreign influence, and that when the native literature was at first founded,
its language was identical with that spoken. Though the predominance of Chinese studies had
arrested the progress of the native literature, it was still extant at the time, and even for
some time after the date of our authoress. But with the ascendency of the military class, the
neglect of all literature became for centuries universal. The little that has been preserved
is an almost unreadable chaos of mixed Chinese and Japanese. Thus a gulf gradually opened between
the spoken and the written language. It has been only during the last two hundred and fifty
years that our country has once more enjoyed a long continuance of peace, and has once more
renewed its interest in literature. Still Chinese has occupied the front rank, and almost monopolized
attention. It is true that within the last sixty or seventy years numerous works of fiction
of different schools have been produced, mostly in the native language, and that these, when
judged as stories, generally excel in their plots those of the classical period. The status,
however, of these writers has never been recognized by the public, nor have they enjoyed the
same degree of honor as scholars of a different description. Their style of composition, moreover,
has never reached the same degree of refinement which distinguished the ancient works. This
last is a strong reason for our appreciation of true classical works such as that of our authoress.

Again, the concise description of scenery, the elegance of which it is almost impossible to
render with due force in another language, and the true and delicate touches of human nature
which everywhere abound in the work, especially in the long dialogue in Chapter II, are almost
marvellous when we consider the sex of the writer, and the early period when she wrote.

Yet this work affords fair ground for criticism. The thread of her story is often diffuse and
somewhat disjointed, a fault probably due to the fact that she had more flights of imagination
than power of equal and systematic condensation: she having been often carried away by that
imagination from points where she ought to have rested. But, on the other hand, in most parts
the dialogue is scanty, which might have been prolonged to considerable advantage, if it had
been framed on models of modern composition. The work, also, is too voluminous.

In translating I have cut out several passages which appeared superfluous, though nothing has
been added to the original.

The authoress has been by no means exact in following the order of dates, though this appears
to have proceeded from her endeavor to complete each distinctive group of ideas in each particular
chapter. In fact she had even left the chapters unnumbered, simply contenting herself with
a brief heading, after which each is now called, such as "Chapter Kiri-Tsubo," etc., so that
the numbering has been undertaken by the translator for the convenience of the reader. It has
no extraordinarily intricate plot like those which excite the readers of the sensational romances
of the modern western style. It has many heroines, but only one hero, and this comes no doubt
from the peculiar purpose of the writer to portray different varieties and shades of female
characters at once, as is shadowed in Chapter II, and also to display the intense fickleness
and selfishness of man.

I notice these points beforehand in order to prepare the reader for the more salient faults
of the work. On the whole my principal object is not so much to amuse my readers as to present
them with a study of human nature, and to give them information on the history of the social
and political condition of my native country nearly a thousand years ago. They will be able
to compare it with the condition of mediæval and modern Europe.

Another peculiarity of the work to which I would draw attention is that, with few exceptions,
it does not give proper names to the personages introduced; for the male characters official
titles are generally employed, and to the principal female ones some appellation taken from
an incident belonging to the history of each; for instance, a girl is named Violet because
the hero once compared her to that flower, while another is called Yûgao because she was found
in a humble dwelling where the flowers of the Yûgao covered the hedges with a mantle of blossom.

I have now only to add that the translation is, perhaps, not always idiomatic, though in this
matter I have availed myself of some valuable assistance, for which I feel most thankful.

SUYEMATZ KENCHIO.

Tokyo, Japan.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Which means, "The Romance of Genji."]

GENJI MONOGATARI

CHAPTER I

THE CHAMBER OF KIRI[2]

In the reign of a certain Emperor, whose name is unknown to us, there was, among the Niogo[76]
and Kôyi[3] of the Imperial Court, one who, though she was not of high birth, enjoyed the full
tide of Royal favor. Hence her superiors, each one of whom had always been thinking--"I shall
be the one," gazed upon her disdainfully with malignant eyes, and her equals and inferiors
were more indignant still.

Such being the state of affairs, the anxiety which she had to endure was great and constant,
and this was probably the reason why her health was at last so much affected, that she was
often compelled to absent herself from Court, and to retire to the residence of her mother.

Her father, who was a Dainagon,[4] was dead; but her mother, being a woman of good sense, gave
her every possible guidance in the due performance of Court ceremony, so that in this respect
she seemed but little different from those whose fathers and mothers were still alive to bring
them before public notice, yet, nevertheless, her friendliness made her oftentimes feel very
diffident from the want of any patron of influence.

These circumstances, however, only tended to make the favor shown to her by the Emperor wax
warmer and warmer, and it was even shown to such an extent as to become a warning to after-generations.
There had been instances in China in which favoritism such as this had caused national disturbance
and disaster; and thus the matter became a subject of public animadversion, and it seemed not
improbable that people would begin to allude even to the example of Yô-ki-hi.[5]

In due course, and in consequence, we may suppose, of the Divine blessing on the sincerity
of their affection, a jewel of a little prince was born to her. The first prince who had been
born to the Emperor was the child of Koki-den-Niogo,[6] the daughter of the Udaijin (a great
officer of State). Not only was he first in point of age, but his influence on his mother's
side was so great that public opinion had almost unanimously fixed upon him as heir-apparent.
Of this the Emperor was fully conscious, and he only regarded the new-born child with that
affection which one lavishes on a domestic favorite. Nevertheless, the mother of the first
prince had, not unnaturally, a foreboding that unless matters were managed adroitly her child
might be superseded by the younger one. She, we may observe, had been established at Court
before any other lady, and had more children than one. The Emperor, therefore, was obliged
to treat her with due respect, and reproaches from her always affected him more keenly than
those of any others.

To return to her rival. Her constitution was extremely delicate, as we have seen already, and
she was surrounded by those who would fain lay bare, so to say, her hidden scars. Her apartments
in the palace were Kiri-Tsubo (the chamber of Kiri); so called from the trees that were planted
around. In visiting her there the Emperor had to pass before several other chambers, whose
occupants universally chafed when they saw it. And again, when it was her turn to attend upon
the Emperor, it often happened that they played off mischievous pranks upon her, at different
points in the corridor, which leads to the Imperial quarters. Sometimes they would soil the
skirts of her attendants, sometimes they would shut against her the door of the covered portico,
where no other passage existed; and thus, in every possible way, they one and all combined
to annoy her.

The Emperor at length became aware of this, and gave her, for her special chamber, another
apartment, which was in the Kôrô-Den, and which was quite close to those in which he himself
resided. It had been originally occupied by another lady who was now removed, and thus fresh
resentment was aroused.

When the young Prince was three years old the Hakamagi[7] took place. It was celebrated with
a pomp scarcely inferior to that which adorned the investiture of the first Prince. In fact,
all available treasures were exhausted on the occasion. And again the public manifested its
disapprobation. In the summer of the same year the Kiri-Tsubo-Kôyi became ill, and wished to
retire from the palace. The Emperor, however, who was accustomed to see her indisposed, strove
to induce her to remain. But her illness increased day by day; and she had drooped and pined
away until she was now but a shadow of her former self. She made scarcely any response to the
affectionate words and expressions of tenderness which her Royal lover caressingly bestowed
upon her. Her eyes were half-closed: she lay like a fading flower in the last stage of exhaustion,
and she became so much enfeebled that her mother appeared before the Emperor and entreated
with tears that she might be allowed to leave. Distracted by his vain endeavors to devise means
to aid her, the Emperor at length ordered a Te-gruma[8] to be in readiness to convey her to
her own home, but even then he went to her apartment and cried despairingly: "Did not we vow
that we would neither of us be either before or after the other even in travelling the last
long journey of life? And can you find it in your heart to leave me now?" Sadly and tenderly
looking up, she thus replied, with almost failing breath:--

    "Since my departure for this dark journey,
      Makes you so sad and lonely,
    Fain would I stay though weak and weary,
      And live for your sake only!"

"Had I but known this before--"

She appeared to have much more to say, but was too weak to continue. Overpowered with grief,
the Emperor at one moment would fain accompany her himself, and at another moment would have
her remain to the end where she then was.

At the last, her departure was hurried, because the exorcism for the sick had been appointed
to take place on that evening at her home, and she went. The child Prince, however, had been
left in the Palace, as his mother wished, even at that time, to make her withdrawal as privately
as possible, so as to avoid any invidious observations on the part of her rivals. To the Emperor
the night now became black with gloom. He sent messenger after messenger to make inquiries,
and could not await their return with patience. Midnight came, and with it the sound of lamentation.
The messenger, who could do nothing else, hurried back with the sad tidings of the truth. From
that moment the mind of the Emperor was darkened, and he confined himself to his private apartments.

He would still have kept with himself the young Prince now motherless, but there was no precedent
for this, and it was arranged that he should be sent to his grandmother for the mourning. The
child, who understood nothing, looked with amazement at the sad countenances of the Emperor,
and of those around him. All separations have their sting, but sharp indeed was the sting in
a case like this.

Now the funeral took place. The weeping and wailing mother, who might have longed to mingle
in the same flames,[9] entered a carriage, accompanied by female mourners. The procession arrived
at the cemetery of Otagi, and the solemn rites commenced. What were then the thoughts of the
desolate mother? The image of her dead daughter was still vividly present to her--still seemed
animated with life. She must see her remains become ashes to convince herself that she was
really dead. During the ceremony, an Imperial messenger came from the Palace, and invested
the dead with the title of Sammi. The letters patent were read, and listened to in solemn silence.
The Emperor conferred this title now in regret that during her lifetime he had not even promoted
her position from a Kôyi to a Niogo, and wishing at this last moment to raise her title at
least one step higher. Once more several tokens of disapprobation were manifested against the
proceeding. But, in other respects, the beauty of the departed, and her gracious bearing, which
had ever commanded admiration, made people begin to think of her with sympathy. It was the
excess of the Emperor's favor which had created so many detractors during her lifetime; but
now even rivals felt pity for her; and if any did not, it was in the Koki-den. "When one is
no more, the memory becomes so dear," may be an illustration of a case such as this.

Some days passed, and due requiem services were carefully performed. The Emperor was still
plunged in thought, and no society had attractions for him. His constant consolation was to
send messengers to the grandmother of the child, and to make inquiries after them. It was now
autumn, and the evening winds blew chill and cold. The Emperor--who, when he saw the first
Prince, could not refrain from thinking of the younger one--became more thoughtful than ever;
and, on this evening, he sent Yugei-no Miôbu[10] to repeat his inquiries. She went as the new
moon just rose, and the Emperor stood and contemplated from his veranda the prospect spread
before him. At such moments he had usually been surrounded by a few chosen friends, one of
whom was almost invariably his lost love. Now she was no more. The thrilling notes of her music,
the touching strains of her melodies, stole over him in his dark and dreary reverie.

The Miôbu arrived at her destination; and, as she drove in, a sense of sadness seized upon her.

The owner of the house had long been a widow; but the residence, in former times, had been
made beautiful for the pleasure of her only daughter. Now, bereaved of this daughter, she dwelt
alone; and the grounds were overgrown with weeds, which here and there lay prostrated by the
violence of the winds; while over them, fair as elsewhere, gleamed the mild lustre of the impartial
moon. The Miôbu entered, and was led into a front room in the southern part of the building.
At first the hostess and the messenger were equally at a loss for words. At length the silence
was broken by the hostess, who said:--

"Already have I felt that I have lived too long, but doubly do I feel it now that I am visited
by such a messenger as you." Here she paused, and seemed unable to contend with her emotion.

"When Naishi-no-Ske returned from you," said the Miôbu, "she reported to the Emperor that when
she saw you, face to face, her sympathy for you was irresistible. I, too, see now how true
it is!" A moment's hesitation, and she proceeded to deliver the Imperial message:--

"The Emperor commanded me to say that for some time he had wandered in his fancy, and imagined
he was but in a dream; and that, though he was now more tranquil, he could not find that it
was only a dream. Again, that there is no one who can really sympathize with him; and he hopes
that you will come to the Palace, and talk with him. His Majesty said also that the absence
of the Prince made him anxious, and that he is desirous that you should speedily make up your
mind. In giving me this message, he did not speak with readiness. He seemed to fear to be considered
unmanly, and strove to exercise reserve. I could not help experiencing sympathy with him, and
hurried away here, almost fearing that, perhaps, I had not quite caught his full meaning."

So saying, she presented to her a letter from the Emperor. The lady's sight was dim and indistinct.
Taking it, therefore, to the lamp, she said, "Perhaps the light will help me to decipher,"
and then read as follows, much in unison with the oral message: "I thought that time only would
assuage my grief; but time only brings before me more vividly my recollection of the lost one.
Yet, it is inevitable. How is my boy? Of him, too, I am always thinking. Time once was when
we both hoped to bring him up together. May he still be to you a memento of his mother!"

Such was the brief outline of the letter, and it contained the following:--

    "The sound of the wind is dull and drear
      Across Miyagi's[11] dewy lea,
    And makes me mourn for the motherless deer
      That sleeps beneath the Hagi tree."

She put gently the letter aside, and said, "Life and the world are irksome to me; and you can
see, then, how reluctantly I should present myself at the Palace. I cannot go myself, though
it is painful to me to seem to neglect the honored command. As for the little Prince, I know
not why he thought of it, but he seems quite willing to go. This is very natural. Please to
inform his Majesty that this is our position. Very possibly, when one remembers the birth of
the young Prince, it would not be well for him to spend too much of his time as he does now."

Then she wrote quickly a short answer, and handed it to the Miôbu. At this time her grandson
was sleeping soundly.

"I should like to see the boy awake, and to tell the Emperor all about him, but he will already
be impatiently awaiting my return," said the messenger. And she prepared to depart.

"It would be a relief to me to tell you how a mother laments over her departed child. Visit
me, then, sometimes, if you can, as a friend, when you are not engaged or pressed for time.
Formerly, when you came here, your visit was ever glad and welcome; now I see in you the messenger
of woe. More and more my life seems aimless to me. From the time of my child's birth, her father
always looked forward to her being presented at Court, and when dying he repeatedly enjoined
me to carry out that wish. You know that my daughter had no patron to watch over her, and I
well knew how difficult would be her position among her fellow-maidens. Yet, I did not disobey
her father's request, and she went to Court. There the Emperor showed her a kindness beyond
our hopes. For the sake of that kindness she uncomplainingly endured all the cruel taunts of
envious companions. But their envy ever deepening, and her troubles ever increasing, at last
she passed away, worn out, as it were, with care. When I think of the matter in that light,
the kindest favors seem to me fraught with misfortune. Ah! that the blind affection of a mother
should make me talk in this way!"

"The thoughts of his Majesty may be even as your own," said the Miôbu. "Often when he alluded
to his overpowering affection for her, he said that perhaps all this might have been because
their love was destined not to last long. And that though he ever strove not to injure any
subject, yet for Kiri-Tsubo, and for her alone, he had sometimes caused the ill-will of others;
that when all this has been done, she was no more! All this he told me in deep gloom, and added
that it made him ponder on their previous existence."

The night was now far advanced, and again the Miôbu rose to take leave. The moon was sailing
down westward and the cool breeze was waving the herbage to and fro, in which numerous mushi
were plaintively singing.[12] The messenger, being still somehow unready to start, hummed--

    "Fain would one weep the whole night long,
    As weeps the Sudu-Mushi's song,
    Who chants her melancholy lay,
    Till night and darkness pass away."

As she still lingered, the lady took up the refrain--

    "To the heath where the Sudu-Mushi sings,
      From beyond the clouds[13] one comes from on high
    And more dews on the grass around she flings,
      And adds her own, to the night wind's sigh."

A Court dress and a set of beautiful ornamental hairpins, which had belonged to Kiri-Tsubo,
were presented to the Miôbu by her hostess, who thought that these things, which her daughter
had left to be available on such occasions, would be a more suitable gift, under present circumstances,
than any other.

On the return of the Miôbu she found that the Emperor had not yet retired to rest. He was really
awaiting her return, but was apparently engaged in admiring the Tsubo-Senzai--or stands of
flowers--which were placed in front of the palaces, and in which the flowers were in full bloom.
With him were four or five ladies, his intimate friends, with whom he was conversing. In these
days his favorite topic of conversation was the "Long Regret."[14] Nothing pleased him more
than to gaze upon the picture of that poem, which had been painted by Prince Teishi-In, or
to talk about the native poems on the same subject, which had been composed, at the Royal command,
by Ise, the poetess, and by Tsurayuki, the poet. And it was in this way that he was engaged
on this particular evening.

To him the Miôbu now went immediately, and she faithfully reported to him all that she had
seen, and she gave to him also the answer to his letter. That letter stated that the mother
of Kiri-Tsubo felt honored by his gracious inquiries, and that she was so truly grateful that
she scarcely knew how to express herself. She proceeded to say that his condescension made
her feel at liberty to offer to him the following:--

    "Since now no fostering love is found,
      And the Hagi tree is dead and sere,
    The motherless deer lies on the ground,
      Helpless and weak, no shelter near."

The Emperor strove in vain to repress his own emotion; and old memories, dating from the time
when he first saw his favorite, rose up before him fast and thick. "How precious has been each
moment to me, but yet what a long time has elapsed since then," thought he, and he said to
the Miôbu, "How often have I, too, desired to see the daughter of the Dainagon in such a position
as her father would have desired to see her. 'Tis in vain to speak of that now!"

A pause, and he continued, "The child, however, may survive, and fortune may have some boon
in store for him; and his grandmother's prayer should rather be for long life."

The presents were then shown to him. "Ah," thought he, "could they be the souvenirs sent by
the once lost love," as he murmured--

    "Oh, could I find some wizard sprite,
      To bear my words to her I love,
    Beyond the shades of envious night,
      To where she dwells in realms above!"

Now the picture of beautiful Yô-ki-hi, however skilful the painter may have been, is after
all only a picture. It lacks life and animation. Her features may have been worthily compared
to the lotus and to the willow of the Imperial gardens, but the style after all was Chinese,
and to the Emperor his lost love was all in all, nor, in his eyes, was any other object comparable
to her. Who doubts that they, too, had vowed to unite wings, and intertwine branches! But to
what end? The murmur of winds, the music of insects, now only served to cause him melancholy.

In the meantime, in the Koki-Den was heard the sound of music. She who dwelt there, and who
had not now for a long time been with the Emperor, was heedlessly protracting her strains until
this late hour of the evening.

How painfully must these have sounded to the Emperor!

    "Moonlight is gone, and darkness reigns
      E'en in the realms 'above the clouds,'
    Ah! how can light, or tranquil peace,
      Shine o'er that lone and lowly home!"

Thus thought the Emperor, and he did not retire until "the lamps were trimmed to the end!"
The sound of the night watch of the right guard[15] was now heard. It was five o'clock in the
morning. So, to avoid notice, he withdrew to his bedroom, but calm slumber hardly visited his
eyes. This now became a common occurrence.

When he rose in the morning he would reflect on the time gone by when "they knew not even that
the casement was bright." But now, too, he would neglect "Morning Court." His appetite failed
him. The delicacies of the so-called "great table" had no temptation for him. Men pitied him
much. "There must have been some divine mystery that predetermined the course of their love,"
said they, "for in matters in which she is concerned he is powerless to reason, and wisdom
deserts him. The welfare of the State ceases to interest him." And now people actually began
to quote instances that had occurred in a foreign Court.

