If this Journal has earned, during a quarter of a century's career of unwavering consistency
and independence, any title to the respect of the Conservative party, we desire now to rely
upon that title for the purpose of adding weight to our solemn protest against the want of
union and energy--against the apathy, from whatever cause arising--now but too visible. In
vain do we and others exert ourselves to the uttermost to diffuse sound political principles
by means of the press; in vain do the distinguished leaders of our party fight the battles
of the constitution with consummate skill and energy in parliament--if their exertions be not
supported by corresponding energy and activity on the part of the Conservative constituencies,
and those persons of talent and influence professing the same principles, by whom they can,
and ought to be, easily set in motion. It is true that persons of liberal education, of a high
and generous tone of feeling, of intellectual refinement, are entitled to treat such men as
Cobden, Bright, and Acland, with profound contempt, and dislike the notion of personal contact
or collision with them, as representatives of the foulest state of ill feeling that can be
generated in the worst manufacturing regions--of sordid avarice, selfishness, envy, and malignity;
but they are active--ever up and doing, and steadily applying themselves, with palatable topics,
to the corruption of the hearts of the working classes. Vast as are our forces, they can effect
comparatively nothing without union, energy, and system: with these, their power is tremendous
and irresistible. What we would say, therefore, is--ORGANIZE! ORGANIZE! ORGANIZE! Let every
existing Conservative club or association be stirred up into increased action, and put into
real working trim forthwith; and where none such clubs or associations exist, let them be immediately
formed, and set into cheerful and spirited motion. Let them all be placed under the vigilant
superintendence of one or two real men of business--of local knowledge, of ability, and influence.
We would point out Conservative solicitors as auxiliaries of infinite value to those engaged
in the good cause; men of high character, of business habits, extensive acquaintance with the
character and circumstances of the electors--and capable of bringing legitimate influence to
bear upon them in a far more direct and effective manner than any other class of persons. One
such gentleman--say a young and active solicitor, with a moderate salary, as permanent secretary
in order to secure and, in some measure, requite his services throughout the year--would be
worth fifty dilletante "friends of the good cause dropping in every now and then," but whose
"friendship" evaporates in mere talk. Let every local Conservative newspaper receive constant
and substantial patronage; for they are worthy of the very highest consideration, on account
of the ability with which they are generally conducted, and their great influence upon local
society. Many of them, to our own knowledge, display a degree of talent and knowledge which
would do honour to the very highest metropolitan journals. Let them, then, be vigorously supported,
their circulation extended through the influence of the resident nobility and gentry, and the
clergy of every particular district throughout the kingdom. Let no opportunity be missed of
exposing the true character of the vile and selfish agitators of the Anti-corn-law league.
Let not the league have all the "publishing" to themselves; but let their impudent fallacies
and falsehoods be instantly encountered and exposed on the spot, by means of small and cheap
tracts and pamphlets, which shall bring plain, wholesome, and important truths home to the
businesses and bosoms of the very humblest in the land. Again, let the resident gentry seek
frequent opportunities of mingling with their humbler neighbours, friends, and dependents,
by way of keeping up a cordial and hearty good understanding with them, so as to rely upon
their effective co-operation whenever occasions may arise for political action.

Let all this be done, and we may defy a hundred Anti-corn-law Leagues. Let these objects be
kept constantly in view, and the Anti-corn-law League will be utterly palsied, had it a hundred
times its present funds--a thousand times its present members!

Let us now, however, turn for a brief space to Ireland; the present condition of which we contemplate
with profound concern and anxiety, but with neither surprise nor dismay. As far as regards
the Government, the state of affairs in Ireland bears at this moment unquestionable testimony
to the stability and strength of the Government; and no one know this better than the gigantic
impostor, to whom so much of the misery of that afflicted portion of the empire is owing. He
perceives, with inexpressible mortification, that neither he nor his present position awake
any sympathy or excitement whatever in the kingdom at large, where the enormity of his misconduct
is fully appreciated, and every movement of the Government against him sanctioned by public
opinion. The general feeling is one of profound disgust towards him, sympathy and commiseration
for his long-plundered dupes and of perfect confidence that the Government will deal firmly
and wisely with both. As for a Repeal of the Union! Pshaw! Every child knows that it is a notion
too absurd to be seriously dealt with; that Great Britain would rather plunge instanter into
the bloodiest civil war that ever desolated a country, than submit to the dismemberment of
the empire by repealing the union between Great Britain and Ireland. This opinion has had,
from time to time, every possible mode of authentic and solemn expression that can be given
to the national will; in speeches from the Throne; in Parliamentary declarations by the leaders
of both the Whig and Conservative Governments; the members of both Houses of Parliament are
(with not a single exception worth noticing) unanimous upon the subject; the press, whether
quarterly, monthly, weekly, or daily, of all classes and shades of political opinions, is unanimous
upon the subject; in society, whether high or low, the subject is never broached, except to
enquire whether any one can, for one moment, seriously believe the Repeal of the Union to be
possible. In Ireland itself, the vast majority of the intellect, wealth, and respectability
of the island, without distinction of religion or politics, entertains the same opinion and
determination which prevail in Great Britain. Is Mr O'Connell ignorant of all this? He knows
it as certainly as he knows that Queen Victoria occupies the throne of these realms; and yet,
down to his very last appearance in public, he has solemnly and perseveringly asseverated that
the Repeal of the Union is an absolutely certain and inevitable event, and one that will happen
within a few months! Is he in his senses? If so, he is speaking from his knowledge of some
vast and dreadful conspiracy, which he has organized himself, which has hitherto escaped detection.
The idea is too monstrous to be entertained for a moment. What, then, can Mr O'Connell be about?
Our opinion is, that his sole object in setting on foot the Repeal agitation, was to increase
his pecuniary resources, and at the same time overthrow Sir Robert Peel's Government, by showing
the Queen and the nation that his admitted "chief difficulty"--Ireland--was one insuperable;
and that he must consequently retire. We believe, moreover, that he is, to a certain extent,
acting upon a secret understanding with the party of the late Government, who, however, never
contemplated matters being carried to their present pitch; but that the Ministry would long
ago have retired, terrified before the tremendous "demonstration" in Ireland. We feel as certain
as if it were a past event, that, had the desperate experiment succeeded so far as to replace
the present by the late Government, Mr O'Connell's intention was to have announced his determination
to "give England ONE MORE trial"--to place Repeal once more in abeyance--in order to see whether
England would really, at length, do "justice to Ireland;" in other words, restore the halcyon
days of Lord Normanby's nominal, and Mr O'Connell's real, rule in Ireland, and enable him,
by these means, to provide for himself, his family, and dependents; for old age is creeping
rapidly upon him--his physical powers are no longer equal to the task of vigorous agitation--and
he is known to be in utterly desperate circumstances. The reckless character of his proceedings
during the last fifteen months, is, in our opinion, fully accounted for, by his unexpected
discovery, that the ministry were strong enough to defy any thing that he could do, and to
continue calmly in their course of administering, not pseudo, but real "justice to Ireland,"
supported in that course by the manifest favour and countenance of the Crown, overwhelming
majorities in Parliament, and the decided and unequivocal expression of public opinion. His
personal position was, in truth, inexpressibly galling and most critical, and he must have
agitated, or sunk at once into ignominious obscurity and submission to a Government whom, individually
and collectively, he loathed and abhorred. Vain were the hopes which, doubtless, he had entertained,
that, as his agitation assumed a bolder form, it would provoke formidable demonstrations in
England against Ministers and their policy; not a meeting could be got up to petition her Majesty
for the dismissal of her Ministers! But it is quite conceivable that Mr O'Connell, in the course
he was pursuing, forgot to consider the possibility of developing a power which might be too
great for him, which would not be wielded by him, but carry him along with it. The following
remarkable expressions fell from the perplexed and terrified agitator, at a great dinner at
Lismore in the county of Waterford, in the month of September last:--"Like the heavy school-boy
on the ice, my pupils are overtaking me. It is now my duty to regulate the vigour and temper
the energy of the people--to compress, as it were, the exuberance of both."

We said that Mr O'Connell revived the Repeal agitation; and the fact was so. He first raised
it in 1829--having, however, at various previous periods of his life, professed a desire to
struggle for Repeal; but Mr Shiel, in his examination before the House of Commons in 1825,
characterized such allusions as mere "rhetorical artifices." "What were his real motives,"
observes the able and impartial author of Ireland and its Rulers[35], "when he announced his
new agitation in 1829, can be left only to him to determine." It is probable that they were
of so mixed a nature, that he himself could not accurately define them.... It is, however,
quite possible, that, after having so long tasted of the luxuries of popularity, he could not
consent that the chalice should pass from his lips. Agitation had, perhaps, begun to be necessary
to his existence: a tranquil life would have been a hell to him." It would seem that Mr O'Connell's
earliest recorded manifesto on Repeal was on the 3d June 1829, previous to the Clare election,
on which occasion he said--"We want political excitement, in order that we may insist on our
rights as Irishmen, but not as Catholics;" and on the 20th of the same month in the same year,
1829, he predicted--listen to this, ye his infatuated dupes!--"that BEFORE THREE YEARS THERE
WOULD BE A PARLIAMENT IN DUBLIN!!!" In the general elections of 1832, it was proclaimed by
Mr O'Connell, that no member should be returned unless he solemnly pledged himself to vote
for the Repeal of the Union; but it was at the same time hinted, that if they would only enter
the House as professed Repealers, they would never be required to VOTE for Repeal. On the hustings
at the county of Waterford election, one of these gentry, Sir Richard Keave, on being closely
questioned concerning the real nature of his opinion on Repeal, let out the whole truth:--"I
will hold it as an imposing weapon to get justice to Ireland." This has held true ever since,
and completely exemplifies all the intervening operations of Mr O'Connell. It has been his
practice ever since "to connect every grievance with the subject of Repeal--to convert every
wrongful act of any Government into an argument for the necessity of an Irish Legislature."
Can it be wondered at that the present Government, thoroughly aware of the true state of the
case--knowing their man--should regard the cry for Repeal simply as an imposture, its utterers
as impostors? They did and do so regard it and its utterers--never allowing either the one
or the other to disturb their administration of affairs with impartiality and firmness; but,
nevertheless, keeping a most watchful eye upon all their movements.

    [35] pp. 43, 50.

At length, whether emboldened by a conviction that the non-interference of the Government was
occasioned solely by their incapacity to grapple with an agitation becoming hourly more formidable,
and that thus his schemes were succeeding--or impelled onwards by those whom he had roused
into action, but could no longer restrain--his movements became daily characterized by more
astounding audacity--more vivid the glare of sedition, and even treason, which surrounded them:
still the Government interfered not. Their apparent inaction most wondered, very many murmured,
some were alarmed, and Mr O'Connell laughed at. Sir Robert Peel, on one occasion, when his
attention was challenged to the subject in the House of Commons, replied, that "he was not
in the least degree moved or disturbed by what was passing in Ireland." This perfect calmness
of the Government served to check the rising of any alarm in the country; which felt a confidence
of the Ministry's being equal to any exigency that could be contemplated. Thus stood matters
till the 11th July last, when, at the close of the debate on the state of Ireland, Sir Robert
Peel delivered a very remarkable speech. It consisted of a calm demonstration of the falsehood
of all the charges brought by the Repealers against the imperial Parliament; of the impolicy
and the impracticability of the various schemes for the relief of Ireland proposed by the Opposition;
of the absolute impossibility of Parliament entertaining the question of a Repeal of the Union;
and a distinct answer to the question--"What course do you intend to pursue?" That answer is
worthy of being distinctly brought under the notice of the reader. "I am prepared to administer
the law in Ireland upon principles of justice and impartiality. I am prepared to recognise
the principle established by law--that there shall be equality in civil privileges. I am prepared
to respect the franchise, to give substantially, although not nominally, equality. In respect
to the social condition of Ireland--as to the relation of landlord and tenant[36]--I am prepared
to give the most deliberate consideration to the important matters involved in those questions.
With respect to the Established Church, I have already stated that we are not prepared to make
an alteration in the law by which that Church is maintained."

    [36] In conformity with this declaration, has been issued the
    recent commission, for "enquiring into the state of the law
    and practice in respect to the occupation of land in Ireland,
    and in respect also to the burdens of county cess and other
    charges, which fall respectively on the landlord and occupying
    tenant, and for reporting as to the amendments, if any, of the
    existing laws, which, having due regard to the just rights of
    property, may be calculated to encourage the cultivation of
    the soil, to extend a better system of agriculture, and to
    improve the relation between landlord and tenant, in that part
    of the United Kingdom."

We recollect being greatly struck with the ominous calmness perceptible in the tone of this
speech. It seemed characterised by a solemn declaration to place the agitation of Ireland for
ever in the wrong--to deprive them of all pretence for accusing England of having misgoverned
Ireland since the Union. It appeared to us as if that speech had been designed to lay the basis
of a contemplated movement against the agitation of the most decisive kind. The Government
acted up to the spirit of the declaration, on that occasion, of Sir Robert Peel, with perfect
dignity and resolution, unmoved by the taunts, the threats, the expostulations, or fears of
either enemies or friends. Mr O'Connell's tone increased in audacity; but we greatly doubt
whether in his heart he had not frequent misgivings as to the real nature of the "frightful
silence"--"cette affreuse silence"--of a Government in whose councils the Duke of Wellington
took a decided part, and which was actually at that moment taking complete military occupation
of Ireland. On what information they were acting, no one knew; but their preparations were
for the worst. During all this time nothing could exceed the tranquillity which prevailed in
England. None of these threatening appearances, these tremendous preparations, caused the least
excitement or alarm; the funds did not vary a farthing per cent in consequence of them; and
to what could all this be ascribed but to the strength of public confidence in the Government?
At length the harvest in Ireland had been got in; ships of war surrounded the coast; thirty
thousand picked and chosen troops, ready for instant action, were disposed in the most masterly
manner all over Ireland. With an almost insane audacity, Mr O'Connell appointed his crowning
monster meeting to take place at Clontarf, in the immediate vicinity of the residence and presence
of the Queen's representative, and of such a military force as rendered the bare possibility
of encountering it appalling. The critical moment, however, for the interference of Government
had at length arrived, and it spoke out in a voice of thunder, prohibiting the monster meeting.
The rest is matter of history. The monster demagogue fell prostrate and confounded among his
panic-stricken confederates; and, in an agony of consternation, declared their implicit obedience
to the proclamation, and set about dispersing the myriad dupes, as fast as they arrived to
attend the prohibited meeting. Thus was the Queen's peace preserved, her crown and dignity
vindicated, without one sword being drawn or one shot being fired. Mr O'Connell had repeatedly
"defied the Government to go to law with him." They have gone to law with him; and by this
time we suspect that he finds himself in an infinitely more serious position than he has ever
been in, during the whole of a long and prosperous career of agitation. Here, however, we leave
him and his fellow defendants.

