I became her second assistant engineer in Panama Bay in 1859, cruising in her around the Horn
and back to Norfolk. Her chief engineer was Alban C. Stimers. Little did we dream that he was
to be the right-hand man of Ericsson in the construction of the Monitor, while I was to hold
a similar post in the conversion of our own ship into an ironclad, or that, in less than a
year and a half, we would be seeking to destroy each other, he as chief engineer of the Monitor
and I in the corresponding position on the Merrimac.

In the harbor of Rio on our return voyage we met the Congress, and as we sailed away after
coaling she fired a friendly salute and cheered us, and we responded with a will. When the
two ships next met it was in one of the deadliest combats of naval history.

The machinery of the Merrimac was condemned, and she went out of commission on our return.
She was still at Norfolk when the war broke out, and was set on fire by the Federals when Norfolk
was evacuated. Some of the workmen in the navy-yard scuttled and sank her, thus putting out
the flames. When she was raised by the Confederates she was nothing but a burned and blackened
hulk.

Her charred upper works were cut away, and in the center a casement shield one hundred and
eighty feet long was built of pitch-pine and oak, two feet thick. This was covered with iron
plates, one to two inches thick and eight inches wide, bolted over each other and through and
through the woodwork, giving a protective armor four inches in thickness. The shield sloped
at an angle of about thirty-six degrees, and was covered with an iron grating that served as
an upper deck. For fifty feet forward and aft her decks were submerged below the water, and
the prow was shod with an iron beak to receive the impact when ramming.

Even naval officers were skeptical as to the result. The plates were rolled at the Tredegar
mills at Richmond, and arrived so slowly that we were nearly a year in finishing her. We could
have rolled them at Norfolk and built four Merrimacs in that time, had the South understood
the importance of a navy at the outbreak of the war.

I remember that my old friend and comrade, Captain Charles MacIntosh, while awaiting orders,
used to come over and stand on the granite curbing of the dock to watch the work as it crawled
along.

"Good-by, Ramsay," he said, sadly, on the eve of starting to command a ram at New Orleans.
"I shall never see you again. She will prove your coffin." A short time afterward the poor
fellow had both legs shot from under him and died almost immediately.

Rifled guns were just coming into use, and Lieutenant Brooke, who designed the Merrimac, considered
the question of having some of her guns rifled. How to procure such cannon was not easily discovered,
as we had no foundries in the South. There were many cast-iron cannon that had fallen into
our hands at Norfolk, and he conceived the idea of turning some of this ordnance into rifles.
In order to enable them to stand the additional bursting strain we forged wrought-iron bands
and shrank them over the chambers, and we devised a special tool for rifling the bore of the
guns. They gave effective service.

Many details remained uncompleted when we were at last floated out of dry-dock, but there was
great pressure for us to make some demonstration that might serve to check McClellan in his
advance up the Peninsula.

The ship was still full of workmen hurrying her to completion when Commodore Franklin Buchanan
arrived from Richmond one March morning and ordered every one out of the ship, except her crew
of three hundred and fifty men which had been hastily drilled on shore in the management of
the big guns, and directed Executive Officer Jones to prepare to sail at once.

At that time nothing was known of our destination. All we knew was that we were off at last.
Buchanan sent for me. The veteran sailor, the beau ideal of a naval officer of the old school,
with his tall form, harsh features, and clear, piercing eyes, was pacing the deck with a stride
I found it difficult to match, although he was then over sixty and I but twenty-four.

"Ramsay," he asked, "what would happen to your engines and boilers if there should be a collision?"

"They are braced tight," I assured him. "Though the boilers stand fourteen feet, they are so
securely fastened that no collision could budge them."

"I am going to ram the Cumberland," said my commander. "I'm told she has the new rifled guns,
the only ones in their whole fleet we have cause to fear. The moment we are in the Roads I'm
going to make right for her and ram her. How about your engines? They were in bad shape in
the old ship, I understand. Can we rely on them? Should they be tested by a trial trip?"

"She will have to travel some ten miles down the river before we get to the Roads," I said.
"If any trouble develops I'll report it. I think that will be sufficient trial trip."

I watched the machinery carefully as we sped down the Elizabeth River, and soon satisfied myself
that all was well. Then I went on deck.

"How fast is she going do you think?" I asked one of the pilots.

"Eight or nine knots an hour," he replied, making a rapid calculation from objects ashore.
The Merrimac as an ironclad was faster under steam than she had ever been before with her top
hamper of masts and sails.

I presented myself to the commodore. "The machinery is all right, sir," I assured him.

Across the river at Newport News gleamed the batteries and white tents of the Federal camp
and the vessels of the fleet blockading the mouth of the James, chief among them the Congress
and the Cumberland, tall and stately, with every line and spar clearly defined against the
blue March sky, their decks and ports bristling with guns, while the rigging of the Cumberland
was gay with the red, white, and blue of sailors' garments hung out to dry.

As we rounded into view the white-winged sailing craft that sprinkled the bay and long lines
of tugs and small boats scurried to the far shore like chickens on the approach of a hovering
hawk. They had seen our black hulk which looked like the roof of a barn afloat. Suddenly huge
volumes of smoke began to pour from the funnels of the frigates Minnesota and Roanoke at Old
Point. They had seen us, too, and were getting up steam. Bright-colored signal flags were run
up and down the masts of all the ships of the Federal fleet. The Congress shook out her topsails.
Down came the clothes-line on the Cumberland, and boats were lowered and dropped astern.

Our crew was summoned to the gun-deck, and Buchanan addressed us: "Sailors, in a few minutes
you will have the long-looked-for opportunity of showing your devotion to our cause. Remember
that you are about to strike for your country and your homes. The Confederacy expects every
man to do his duty. Beat to quarters." Every terse, burning word is engraved on my memory,
though fifty years have passed since they were spoken.

Just as he had finished, the mess caterer touched my elbow and whispered: "Better get your
lunch now, Mr. Ramsay. It will be your last chance. The galley-fires must be put out when the
magazines are opened."

On my way I saw Assistant-Surgeon Garnett at a table laying out lint and surgical implements.
I had no appetite, and merely tasted some cold tongue and a cup of coffee. Passing along the
gun-deck, I saw the pale and determined countenances of the guns' crews, as they stood motionless
at their posts, with set lips unsmiling, contrasting with the careless expression of sailors
when practised at "fighting quarters" on a man-of-war. This was the real thing.

As we approached the Federal ships we were met by a veritable storm of shells which must have
sunk any ship then afloat--except the Merrimac. They struck our sloping sides, were deflected
upward to burst harmlessly in the air, or rolled down and fell hissing into the water, dashing
the spray up into our ports.

As we drew nearer the Cumberland, above the roar of battle rang the voice of Buchanan, "Do
you surrender?"

"Never!" retorted the gallant Morris.

The crux of what followed was down in the engine-room. Two gongs, the signal to stop, were
quickly followed by three, the signal to reverse. There was an ominous pause, then a crash,
shaking us all off our feet. The engines labored. The vessel was shaken in every fiber. Our
bow was visibly depressed. We seemed to be bearing down with a weight on our prow. Thud, thud,
thud, came the rain of shot on our shield from the double-decked battery of the Congress. There
was a terrible crash in the fire-room. For a moment we thought one of the boilers had burst.
No, it was the explosion of a shell in our stack. Was any one hit? No, thank God! The firemen
had been warned to keep away from the up-take, so the fragments of shell fell harmlessly on
the iron floor-plates.

We had rushed on the doomed ship, relentless as fate, crashing through her barricade of heavy
spars and torpedo fenders, striking her below her starboard fore-chains, and crushing far into
her. For a moment the whole weight of her hung on our prow and threatened to carry us down
with her, the return wave of the collision curling up into our bow port.

The Cumberland began to sink slowly, bow first, but continued to fight desperately for the
forty minutes that elapsed after her doom was sealed, while we were engaged with both the Cumberland
and the Congress, being right between them.

We had left our cast-iron beak in the side of the Cumberland. Like the wasp, we could sting
but once, leaving it in the wound.

Our smoke-stack was riddled, our flag was shot down several times, and was finally secured
to a rent in the stack. On our gun-deck the men were fighting like demons. There was no thought
or time for the wounded and dying as they tugged away at their guns, training and sighting
their pieces while the orders rang out, "Sponge, load, fire!"

"The muzzle of our gun has been shot away," cried one of the gunners.

"No matter, keep on loading and firing--do the best you can with it," replied Lieutenant Jones.

"Keep away from the side ports, don't lean against the shield, look out for the sharpshooters,"
rang the warnings. Some of our men who failed to heed them and leaned against the shield were
stunned and carried below, bleeding at the ears. All were full of courage and worked with a
will; they were so begrimed with powder that they looked like negroes.

"Pass along the cartridges."

"More powder."

"A shell for number six."

"A wet wad for the hot-shot gun."

"Put out that pipe and don't light it again on peril of your life."

Such were the directions and commands, issued like clockwork amid the confusion of battle.
Our executive officer seemed to be in a dozen places at once.

This gives some faint notion of the scene passing behind our grim iron casement, which to the
beholders without seemed a machine of destruction. Human hearts were beating and bleeding there.
Human lives were being sacrificed. Pain, death, wounds, glory--that was the sum of it.

On the doomed ship Cumberland the battle raged with equal fury. The sanded deck was red and
slippery with blood. Delirium seized the crew. They stripped to their trousers, kicked off
their shoes, tied handkerchiefs about their heads, and fought and cheered as their ship sank
beneath their feet. Then the order came, "All save who can." There was a scramble for the spar-deck
and a rush overboard. The ship listed. The after pivot-gun broke loose and rushed down the
decline like a furious animal, rolling over a man as it bounded overboard, leaving a mass of
mangled flesh on deck.

We now turned to the Congress, which had tried to escape but had grounded, and the battle raged
once more, broadside upon broadside, delivered at close range, the Merrimac working closer
all the time with her bow pointed as if to ram the Congress. A shell from Lieutenant Wood's
gun sped through their line of powder-passers, not only cutting down the men, but exploding
the powder buckets in their hands, spreading death and destruction and setting fire to the ship.

At last came the order, "Cease firing."

"The Congress has surrendered," some one cried. "Look out of the port. See, she has run up
white flags. The officers are waving their handkerchiefs."

At this several of the officers started to leave their posts and rush on deck, but Lieutenant
Jones in his stentorian voice sang out: "Stand by your guns, and, lieutenants, be ready to
resume firing at the word. See that your guns are well supplied with ammunition during the
lull. Dr. Garnett, see how those poor fellows yonder are coming on. Mr. Littlepage, tell Paymaster
Semple to have a care of the berth-deck and use every precaution against fire. Mr. Hasker,
call away the cutter's crew and have them in readiness. Mr. Lindsay [to the carpenter], sound
the well, examine the forehold, and report if you find anything wrong." Such was Catesby Ap.
R. Jones, the executive officer of the Merrimac.

When it was fully evident that there was to be a suspension of hostilities, and these details
had all been attended to, several of the officers went to stand beside Buchanan on the upper
grating.

The whole scene was changed. A pall of black smoke hung about the ships and obscured the clean-cut
outlines of the shore. Down the river were the three frigates St. Lawrence, Roanoke, and Minnesota,
also enveloped in the clouds of battle that now and then reflected the crimson lightnings of
the god of war. The masts of the Cumberland were protruding above the water. The Congress presented
a terrible scene of carnage.

The gunboats Beaufort and Raleigh were signaled to take off the wounded and fire the ship.
They were driven away by sharpshooters on shore, who suddenly turned their fire on us, notwithstanding
the white flag of the Congress. Buchanan fell, severely wounded in the groin.

As he was being carried below he said to Executive Officer Jones: "Plug hot shot into her and
don't leave her until she's afire. They must look after their own wounded, since they won't
let us"--a characteristic command when it is remembered that his own brother, McKean Buchanan,
was paymaster of the Congress and might have been numbered among the wounded.

We had kept two furnaces for the purpose of heating shot. They were rolled into the flames
on a grating, rolled out into iron buckets, hoisted to the gun-deck, and rolled into the guns,
which had been prepared with wads of wet hemp. Then the gun would be touched off quickly and
the shot sent on its errand of destruction.

Leaving the Congress wrapped in sheets of flame, we made for the three other frigates. The
St. Lawrence and Roanoke had run aground, but were pulled off by tugs and made their escape.
The Minnesota was not so fortunate, but we drew twenty-three feet of water and could not get
near enough to destroy her, while our guns could not be elevated owing to the narrow embrasures,
and their range was only a mile; so we made for our moorings at Sewall's Point.

All the evening we stood on deck watching the brilliant display of the burning ship. Every
part of her was on fire at the same time, the red-tongued flames running up shrouds, masts,
and stays, and extending out to the yard-arms. She stood in bold relief against the black background,
lighting up the Roads and reflecting her lurid lights on the bosom of the now placid and hushed
waters. Every now and then the flames would reach one of the loaded cannon and a shell would
hiss at random through the darkness. About midnight came the grand finale. The magazines exploded,
shooting up a huge column of firebrands hundreds of feet in the air, and then the burning hulk
burst asunder and melted into the waters, while the calm night spread her sable mantle over
Hampton Roads.

The Monitor arrived during the evening and anchored under the stern of the Minnesota, her lighter
draught enabling her to do so without danger. To us the ensuing engagement was in the nature
of a surprise. If we had known we were to meet her we would have at least been supplied with
solid shot for our rifled guns. We might even have thought best to wait until our iron beak,
lost in the side of the Cumberland, could be replaced. Buchanan was incapacitated by his wound,
and the command devolved upon Lieutenant Jones.

We left our anchorage shortly before eight o'clock next morning and steamed across and up stream
toward the Minnesota, thinking to make short work of her and soon return with her colors trailing
under ours. We approached her slowly, feeling our way cautiously along the edge of the channel,
when suddenly, to our astonishment, a black object that looked like the historic description,
"a barrel-head afloat with a cheese-box on top of it," moved slowly out from under the Minnesota
and boldly confronted us. It must be confessed that both ships were queer-looking craft, as
grotesque to the eyes of the men of '62 as they would appear to those of the present generation.

And now the great fight was on, a fight the like of which the world had never seen. With the
battle of yesterday old methods had passed away, and with them the experience of a thousand
years "of battle and of breeze" was brought to naught.

We hovered about each other in spirals, gradually contracting the circuits until we were within
point-blank range, but our shell glanced from the Monitor's turret just as hers did from our
sloping sides. For two hours the cannonade continued without perceptible damage to either of
the combatants.

On our gun-deck all was bustle, smoke, grimy figures, and stern commands, while down in the
engine and boiler rooms the sixteen furnaces were belching out fire and smoke, and the firemen
standing in front of them, like so many gladiators, tugged away with devil's-claw and slice-bar,
inducing by their exertions more and more intense combustion and heat. The noise of the cracking,
roaring fires, escaping steam, and the loud and labored pulsations of the engines, together
with the roar of battle above and the thud and vibration of the huge masses of iron which were
hurled against us produced a scene and sound to be compared only with the poet's picture of
the lower regions.

And then an accident occurred that threatened our utter destruction. We stuck fast aground
on a sand-bar.

Our situation was critical. The Monitor could, at her leisure, come close up to us and yet
be out of our reach, owing to our inability to deflect our guns. In she came and began to sound
every chink in our armor--every one but that which was actually vulnerable, had she known it.

The coal consumption of the two days' fight had lightened our prow until our unprotected submerged
deck was almost awash. The armor on our sides below the water-line had been extended but about
three feet, owing to our hasty departure before the work was finished. Lightened as we were,
these exposed portions rendered us no longer an ironclad, and the Monitor might have pierced
us between wind and water had she depressed her guns.

