Betty Taradine is billeting at her pretty manor-house a nice vague Colonel. The Vicar's sister
disapproves, because Betty is a grass-widow, and Penelope, the all-but-flapper, an insufficient
chaperone. She expresses her disapproval with a hardy insolence which must be rare with vicars'
sisters in these emancipated times. Naturally when you have a great deal of palaver about Betty's
husband having deserted her two years ago after a serious tiff, and no word spoken or written
since, you rightly guess that the expected new Adjutant, Captain Rymill, will be none other
than the missing man. But you probably don't guess that Betty, to spoof the Church and keep
the Colonel, has decided to kill her husband by faked telegram. So you have a distinctly intriguing
theme, which Miss TENNYSON JESSE and Captain HARWOOD handle with very considerable adroitness
and embroider with many really sparkling and laughter-compelling lines.

I should like to ask the pleasant authors some questions. How is it that the infinitely susceptible
Colonel who loves Penelope, but is so overcome by the pseudo-sorrowing Betty that he is afraid
of "saying so much more than he means," and appeals to his invaluable Adjutant for help--how
is it he survived a bachelor till fifty? And how did Betty, with her abysmal ignorance of pass-book
lore, manage to postpone her financial catastrophe for two whole years? And how do they suppose
so popular and personable man as Taradine could come back to England under an assumed name
without a number of highly inconvenient questions being asked? More seriously, I would ask
if they really expect us to believe in the reconciliation on so deep a note of this nice butterfly
and this callous husband, who never intended, but for the War, to come back from his big-game
shooting, and who took no pains to arrange suitable guidance (there was a lawyer vaguely mentioned
but he seems to have been singularly unobtrusive) for the obviously incompetent spouse whom
he professes still to love? I am afraid it will not do. The one real point of weakness in the
presentation was that Mr. EADIE could not modulate from the key of agreeable flippancy in which
the comedy as a whole was set into that of the solemnly sentimental coda. Thus was the artistic
unity of a pleasant trifle destroyed.

Mr. DAWSON MILWARD'S clever careful method made the Colonel a very live and plausible figure.
Some of his intimate touches were exceedingly adroit. The authors deserve a fair share of the
credit. Indeed there was throughout a suggestion of clever characterisation conspicuously above
the average of this genre. Penelope was an excellently developed part, rendered with unexpectedly
mature skill by Miss STELLA JESSE. The Vicar promised at first to be a new type, but the authors
seemed to have lost interest in him half-way, and not even Mr. LAWRENCE HANRAY'S skill and
restraint could quite save him. I rate Mr. EADIE as an actor too high to be much amused by
him in obviously EADIE parts. "A man's reach must exceed his grasp." I think it just to Miss
HOEY to say that she seemed a little handicapped by efforts of memory, a condition which will
duly disappear and leave her charm to assert itself. Mr. GEORGE HOWARD was quite admirable
as a Scots bank manager; Miss BLANCHE STANLEY, a really sound combination of essential good-nature
and wounded dignity as a cook on the verge of giving notice. Miss GERTRUDE STERROLL tackled
a vicaress of the Mid-Victorian era (authors' responsibility this) with a courage which deserves
both praise and sympathy.

T.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AIRMAN.

  Jack loves dreadnoughts, Peggy loves trains,
  But I know what I love--aeroplanes.

  Jack will sail the high seas if he can stick it;
  Peggy'll be the girl in blue who asks to see your ticket;
  But I will steer my aeroplane over London town
  And loop the loop till Nurse cries out, "Lor', Master Jim, come down!"

  Jack will be an admiral if he isn't sick;
  Peggy'll take the tickets and punch them with a click;
  But I will make a splendid hum up there in the blue;
  I'll look down on London town, I'll look down on you.

  Jack will hunt for U-boats and sink the beasts by scores;
  Peggy'll have a perfect life, slamming carriage doors;
  But I shall join the R.F.C. and Nurse herself will shout,
  "There's Master Flight-Commander Jim has put them Huns to rout."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A well-known Liverpool shipowner and philanthropist is giving
    £70,000--£100 for each year of his life--to various charitable
    and philanthropic objects."--Scotsman.

He might almost have lived in the time of the Patriarchs, but we gather that he preferred the
days of the profits.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Often it was impossible to detect the existence of underground
    works until their occupants opened fire. At one such spot a white
    hag was displayed, and when our men charily approached a burst of
    fire met them."--East Anglian Daily Times.

The enemy is evidently up to his old trick--taking cover behind women.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(BY MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS.)

I foresee the appearance, during the next few years, of many regimental handbooks that will
record the history at this present visibly and gloriously in the making. One such has already
reached me, a second edition of A Brief History of the King's Royal Rifle Corps (WARREN), compiled
and edited by Lieut.-General Sir EDWARD HUTTON, K.C.B. It is a book to be bought and treasured
by many to whom the record of a fine and famous regiment has become in these last years doubly
precious. The moment of its appearance is indeed excellently opportune, from the fact that,
in the first place, the K.R.R. was recruited from our brothers across the Atlantic, the 60th
Royal Americans (as they were then) having been raised, in 1756, from the colonists in the
Eastern States, with a view to retrieving the recent disaster to General BRADDOCK'S troops,
and to provide a force that could meet the French and Indians upon equal terms. Thus the Regiment,
which its historian modestly calls a typical unit of the British Army, is in its origin another
link between the two great English-speaking allies of to-day. It has a record, certainly second
to none, from Quebec to Ypres--one that splendidly bears out the words, themselves ringing
like steel, of its motto, Celer et Audax. I should add that all profits from the sale of the
book will go to "The Ladies' Guild of the King's Royal Rifle Corps." Friends past and present
will no doubt see to it that these profits are considerable.

       *       *       *       *       *

In The Immortal Gamble (A. AND C. BLACK), by A.T. STEWART and C.J. PESHALL, the Acting Commander
and Chaplain of H.M.S. Cornwallis describe the part taken by their ship and its gallant complement
in the bombardment of Gallipoli and the subsequent landings down to the final evacuation. The
account is clear, concise, unemotional, and uncontroversial. As a glimpse rather than a survey
of the Dardanelles campaign it strengthens our faith in the spirit of the race without hopelessly
undermining our confidence in its intelligence. Beyond the fact that it records deeds of brave
men the book has no mission, and its cheerful detachment might not, in the absence of sterner
chronicles, be salutary. But as long as there are enough Commissions to publish scathing reports
on this or that phase of national ineptitude it is not the publishers' business to provide
cathartics for the fatted soul of a self-satisfied people. As the passing of time obliterates
the futilities and burnishes the heroisms of the noblest and most forlorn adventure in the
history of the race, The Immortal Gamble will find a just place among the simple chronicles
of courage which the War is storing up for the inspiration of the generations to come.

       *       *       *       *       *

I fancy that of late the cinema has somewhat departed from its life-long preoccupation with
the cow-boy, otherwise, I should have little hesitation in predicting a great future on the
film for Naomi of the Mountains (CASSELL). For this very stirring drama of the wilder West
is so packed with what I can't resist calling "reelism" that it is almost impossible to think
of it otherwise than in terms of the screen. It is concerned with the wooing, by two contrasted
suitors, of Naomi, herself more or less a child of nature, who dwelt in the back-of-beyond
with her old, fanatic and extremely unpleasant father. But, though the action is of the breathless
type that we have come to expect from such a setting, there is far more character and serious
observation than you would be prepared to find. Mr. CHRISTOPHER CULLEY has drawn a real woman,
and at least two human and well-observed men. I will not give you in detail the varied course
of Naomi's romance, which ends in a perfect orgy of battle, with sheriffs and shooting, redskins
and revolvers--in short, all the effects that Mr. HAWTREY not long ago so successfully illustrated
on the stage. To sum up, I should describe Naomi of the Mountains as melodrama with a difference--the
difference residing in its clever character-drawing and some touches of genuine emotion which
lift it above the ordinary. And this from one to whom the Wild West in fiction has long been
a weariness is something more than tepid praise.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir CHARLES WALDSTEIN, author of the thoughtful Aristodemocracy, is a thinker with an internationalist
mind. But pray don't think he's not a whole-hogger about the War. In What Germany is Fighting
For (LONGMANS) he analyses the Germans' statement of their war-aims and does good service by
presenting an excellent translation, with comment and epilogue, of the famous manifesto of
"The Six Associations," and the "Independent Committee for a German Peace." It is an insolent,
humourless, immoral document. Anything like it published in England would be laughed out of
court by Englishmen. It is difficult to keep one's temper when one reads all this nauseating
stuff about the little German lamb being threatened by the wolf, England (or Russia or France,
as best suits the current paragraph), and Germany's fine solicitude for the freedom of the
seas. It is no disrespect to Sir CHARLES WALDSTEIN that his acute and dispassionate comment
is not so forcible an argument to hold us unflinchingly to the essence of our task as any page
of the manifesto itself. The German, with all his craft, has an almost unlimited capacity for
giving himself away. It would seem that, after all, humour is the best gift of the gods....
Our commentator ends with an epigram to the general effect that "until they adopt, in common
with us, the ideal of the Gentleman, in contradistinction to that of the Superman," we must
continue to strafe them in war or peace. His book constitutes an important War document.

       *       *       *       *       *

If I had been compelled to nominate an author to write a book called The Gossip Shop (HODDER
AND STOUGHTON) I should have selected Mrs. J.E. BUCKROSE without a moment's hesitation. So
I ought to be happy. Anything more soothing to tired nerves than the tittle-tattle of these
Wendlebury old ladies it is impossible to imagine. And to add to the lullaby we are given an
ancient cab-horse called Griselda, who with a flick of her tail seems to render the atmosphere
even more calm and serene. Then there is a love-story which, in spite of misunderstandings,
is never really perturbing, and--as a spice--a fortune telling lady who in such respectable
society is as near to being naughty as doesn't matter. Small beer? Perhaps. But if you want
to get away from the War and rumours of it, I advise you to take a draught of this tranquillizing
potion.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From a Booksellers' Catalogue:--

    "PLUTARCH: His Life, his Parallel Lives, and his Morals. 3/6."

So spicy a story is surely cheap at the price.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The cause of the explosion is unknown, but it is assumed that
    some combustible matter was among the coal."--Daily Dispatch.

It is only fair to some of the coal merchants to say that they take great pains to reduce this
danger to a minimum.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FISHES' FEAST.

    "Sugar cargoes amounting to over 40,000 tons have been put down
    by mines and submarines."--Daily Paper.

  Full many a cube of Sparkling Loaf agleam
    The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean bear;
  Full many a sack of Crystals melts astream
    And wastes its sweetness on the fishes there.