One last thing needs to be said about the necessary attitude of heart of the reader. If God
is to bless him at all through these pages, he must come to them with a deep hunger of heart.
He must be possessed with a dissatisfaction of the state of the Church in general, and of himself
in particular--especially of himself. He must be willing for God to begin His work in himself
first, rather than in the other man. He must, moreover, be possessed with the holy expectancy
that God can and will meet his need. If he is in any sense a Christian leader, the urgency
of the matter is intensified many times over. His willingness to admit his need and be blessed
will determine the degree to which God can bless the people to whom he ministers. Above all
he must realise that he must be the first to humble himself at the Cross. If a new honesty
with regard to sin is needed among his people, he must realise it must begin with himself.
It was when the King of Nineveh arose from his throne and covered himself with sackcloth and
sat in ashes as a sign of his repentance, that his people repented.

Let not, however, those readers who are not leaders be tempted to look at those who are and
wait for them. God wants to begin with each one of us. He wants to begin with YOU.

May God bless us all.

Roy HESSION. January, 1950.

CHAPTER I BROKENNESS

We want to be very simple in this matter of Revival. Revival is just the life of the Lord Jesus
poured into human hearts. Jesus is always victorious. In heaven they are praising Him all the
time for His victory. Whatever may be our experience of failure and barrenness, He is never
defeated. His power is boundless. And we, on our part, have only to get into a right relationship
with Him, and we shall see His power being demonstrated in our hearts and lives and service,
and His victorious life will fill us and overflow through us to others. And that is Revival
in its essence.

If, however, we are to come into this right relationship with Him, the first thing we must
learn is that our wills must be broken to His will. To be broken is the beginning of Revival.
It is painful, it is humiliating, but it is the only way. It is being "Not I, but Christ,"[footnote1:Gal.
2: 20.] and a "C" is a bent "I." The Lord Jesus cannot live in us fully and reveal Himself
through us until the proud self within us is broken. This simply means that the hard unyielding
self, which justifies itself, wants its own way, stands up for its rights, and seeks its own
glory, at last bows its head to God's will, admits its wrong, gives up its own way to Jesus,
surrenders its rights and discards its own glory--that the Lord Jesus might have all and be
all. In other words it is dying to self and self-attitudes.

And as we look honestly at our Christian lives, we can see how much of this self there is in
each of us. It is so often self who tries to live the Christian life (the mere fact that we
use the word "try" indicates that it is self who has the responsibility). It is self, too,
who is often doing Christian work. It is always self who gets irritable and envious and resentful
and critical and worried. It is self who is hard and unyielding in its attitudes to others.
It is self who is shy and self-conscious and reserved. No wonder we need breaking. As long
as self is in control, God can do little with us, for all the fruits of the Spirit (they are
enumerated in Galatians 5), with which God longs to fill us, are the complete antithesis of
the hard, unbroken spirit within us and presupposes that it has been crucified.

Being broken is both God's work and ours. He brings His pressure to bear, but we have to make
the choice. If we are really open to conviction as we seek fellowship with God (and willingness
for the light is the prime condition of fellowship with God), God will show us the expressions
of this proud, hard self that cause Him pain. Then it is, we can stiffen our necks and refuse
to repent or we can bow the head and say, "Yes, Lord." Brokenness in daily experience is simply
the response of humility to the conviction of God. And inasmuch as this conviction is continuous,
we shall need to be broken continually. And this can be very costly, when we see all the yielding
of rights and selfish interests that this will involve, and the confessions and restitutions
that may be sometimes necessary.

For this reason, we are not likely to be broken except at the Cross of Jesus. The willingness
of Jesus to be broken for us is the all-compelling motive in our being broken too. We see Him,
Who is in the form of God, counting not equality with God a prize to be grasped at and hung
on to, but letting it go for us and taking upon Him the form of a Servant--God's Servant, man's
Servant. We see Him willing to have no rights of His own, no home of His own, no possessions
of His own, willing to let men revile Him and not revile again, willing to let men tread on
Him and not retaliate or defend Himself. Above all, we see Him broken as He meekly goes to
Calvary to become men's scapegoat by bearing their sins in His own body on the Tree. In a pathetic
passage in a prophetic Psalm, He says, "I am a worm and no man."[footnote2:Psalm 22: 6.] Those
who have been in tropical lands tell us that there is a big difference between a snake and
a worm, when you attempt to strike at them. The snake rears itself up and hisses and tries
to strike back--a true picture of self. But a worm offers no resistance, it allows you to do
what you like with it, kick it or squash it under your heel--a picture of true brokenness.
And Jesus was willing to become just that for us--a worm and no man. And He did so, because
that is what He saw us to be, worms having forfeited all rights by our sin, except to deserve
hell. And He now calls us to take our rightful place as worms for Him and with Him. The whole
Sermon on the Mount with its teaching of non-retaliation, love for enemies and selfless giving,
assumes that that is our position. But only the vision of the Love that was willing to be broken
for us can constrain us to be willing for that.

"Lord, bend that proud and stiff necked I,
    Help me to bow the head and die;
Beholding Him on Calvary,
    Who bowed His head for me."

But dying to self is not a thing we do once for all. There may be an initial dying when God
first shows these things, but ever after it will be a constant dying, for only so can the Lord
Jesus be revealed constantly through us.[footnote3: 2 Cor. 4: 10.] All day long the choice
will be before us in a thousand ways. It will mean no plans, no time, no money, no pleasure
of our own. It will mean a constant yielding to those around us, for our yieldedness to God
is measured by our yieldedness to man. Every humiliation, everyone who tries and vexes us,
is God's way of breaking us, so that there is a yet deeper channel in us for the Life of Christ.

You see, the only life that pleases God and that can be victorious is His life--never our life,
no matter how hard we try. But inasmuch as our self-centred life is the exact opposite of His,
we can never be filled with His life unless we are prepared for God to bring our life constantly
to death. And in that we must co-operate by our moral choice.

CHAPTER 2 CUPS RUNNING OVER

Brokenness, however, is but the beginning of Revival. Revival itself is being absolutely filled
to overflowing with the Holy Spirit, and that is victorious living. If we were asked this moment
if we were filled with the Holy Spirit, how many of us would dare to answer "yes"? Revival
is when we can say "yes" at any moment of the day. It is not egoistic to say so, for filling
to overflowing is utterly and completely God's work--it is all of grace. All we have to do
is to present our empty, broken self and let Him fill and keep filled. Andrew Murray says,
"Just as water ever seeks and fills the lowest place, so the moment God finds you abased and
empty, His glory and power flow in." The picture that has made things simple and clear to so
many of us is that of the human heart as a cup, which we hold out to Jesus, longing that He
might fill it with the Water of Life. Jesus is pictured as bearing the golden water pot with
the Water of Life. As He passes by, He looks into our cup and if it is clean, He fills to overflowing
with the Water of Life. And as Jesus is always passing by, the cup can be always running over.
That is something of what David meant, when he said, "My cup runneth over." This is Revival--you
and I--full to overflowing with blessing ourselves and to others--with a constant peace in
our hearts. People imagine that dying to self makes one miserable. But it just the opposite.
It is the refusal to die to self that makes one miserable. The more we know of death with Him,
the more we shall know of His life in us, and so the more of real peace and joy. His life,
too, will overflow through us to lost souls in a real concern for their salvation, and to our
fellow Christians in a deep desire for their blessing.

Under the Blood.

Only one thing prevents Jesus filling our cups as He passes by, and that is sin in one of its
thousand forms. The Lord Jesus does not fill dirty cups. Anything that springs from self, however
small it may be, is sin. Self-energy or self-complacency in service is sin. Self-pity in trials
or difficulties, self-seeking in business or Christian work, self-indulgence in one's spare
time, sensitiveness, touchiness, resentment and self-defence when we are hurt or injured by
others, self-consciousness, reserve, worry, fear, all spring from self and all are sin and
make our cups unclean.[*] But all of them were put into that other cup, which the Lord Jesus
shrank from momentarily in Gethsemane, but which He drank to the dregs at Calvary--the cup
of our sin. And if we will allow Him to show us what is in our cups and then give it to Him,
He will cleanse them in the precious Blood that still flows for sin. That does not mean mere
cleansing from the guilt of sin, nor even from the stain of sin--though thank God both of these
are true--but from the sin itself, whatever it may be. And as He cleanses our cups, so He fills
them to overflowing with His Holy Spirit.

And we are able daily to avail ourselves of that precious Blood. Suppose you have let the Lord
Jesus cleanse your cup and have trusted Him to fill it to overflowing, then something comes
along--a touch of envy or temper. What happens? Your cup becomes dirty and it ceases to overflow.
And if we are constantly being defeated in this way, then our cup is never overflowing.

If we are to know continuous Revival, we must learn the way to keep our cups clean. It is never
God's will that a Revival should cease, and be known in history as the Revival of this or that
year. When that happens it is due to only one thing--sin, just those little sins that the devil
drops into our cup. But if we will go back to Calvary and learn afresh the power of the Blood
of Jesus to cleanse moment by moment from the beginnings of sin, then we have learnt the secret
of cups constantly cleansed and constantly overflowing. The moment you are conscious of that
touch of envy, criticism, irritability, whatever it is--ask Jesus to cover it with His precious
Blood and cleanse it away and you will find the reaction gone, your joy and peace restored
and your cup running over. And the more you trust the Blood of Jesus in this way, the less
will you even have these reactions. But cleansing is only possible when we have first been
broken before God on the point concerned. Suppose we are irritated by certain traits in someone.
It is not enough just to take our reactions of irritation to Calvary. We must first be broken,
that is, we must yield to God over the whole question and accept that person and his ways as
His will for us. Then we are able to take our wrong reaction to Jesus, knowing that His Blood
will cleanse away our sin; and when we have been cleansed from sin, let us not keep mourning
over it, let us not be occupied with ourselves. But let us look up to our victorious Lord,
and praise Him that He is still victorious.

There is one simple but all-inclusive guide the Word of God gives to regulate our walk with
Jesus and to make us to know when sin has come in. Colossians 3:15 says, "Let the peace of
God rule in your hearts." Everything that disturbs the peace of God in our hearts is sin, no
matter how small it is, and no matter how little like sin it may at first appear to be. This
peace is to "rule" our hearts, or (a more literal translation) "be the referee" in our hearts.
When the referee blows his whistle at a football match, the game has to stop, a foul has been
committed. When we lose our peace, God's referee in our hearts has blown his whistle! Let us
stop immediately, ask God to show us what is wrong, put by faith the sin He shows us under
the Blood of Jesus, and then peace will be restored and we shall go on our way with our cups
running over. If, however, God does not give us His peace, it will be because we are not really
broken. Perhaps we have yet to say "sorry" to somebody else as well as to God. Or perhaps we
still feel it is the other person's fault. But if we have lost our peace, it is obvious whose
fault it is. We do not lose peace with God over another person's sin, but only over our own.
God wants to show us our reactions, and only when we are willing to be cleansed there, will
we have His peace. Oh, what a simple but searching thing it is to be ruled by the peace of
God, none other than the Holy Spirit Himself! Former selfish ways, which we never bothered
about, are now shown to us and we cannot walk in them without the referee blowing his whistle.
Grumbling, bossiness, carelessness, down to the smallest thing are all revealed as sins, when
we are prepared to let our days be ruled by the peace of God. Many times a day and over the
smallest things we shall have to avail ourselves of the cleansing Blood of Jesus, and we shall
find ourselves walking the way of brokenness as never before. But Jesus will be manifested
in all His loveliness and grace in that brokenness.

Many of us, however, have neglected the referee's whistle so often and for so long that we
have ceased to hear it. Days follow days and we feel we have little need of cleansing and no
occasion of being broken. In that condition we are usually in a worse state than we ever imagine.
It will need a great hunger for restored fellowship with God to possess our hearts before we
will be willing to cry to God to show us where the Blood of Jesus must be applied. He will
show us, to begin with, just one thing, and it will be our obedience and brokenness on that
one thing that will be the first step into Revival for us.

[footnote*:Some may be inclined to question whether it is right to call such things as self-consciousness,
reserve and fear, sins. "Call them infirmities, disabilities, temperamental weaknesses, if
you will," some have said, "but not sins. To do so would be to get us into bondage." The reverse,
however, is true. If these things are not sins, then we must put up with them for the rest
of our lives, there is no deliverance. But if these and other things like them are indeed sins,
then there is a Fountain for sin, and we may experience cleansing and deliverance from them,
if we put them immediately under His precious Blood, the moment we are conscious of them. And
they are sins. Their source is unbelief and an inverted form of pride, and they have hindered
and hidden Him times without number.]

CHAPTER 3 THE WAY OF FELLOWSHIP

When man fell and chose to make himself, rather than God, the centre of his life, the effect
was not only to put man out of fellowship with God, but also out of fellowship with his fellow
man. The story of man's first quarrel with God in the third chapter of Genesis is closely followed,
in the fourth chapter, by the story of man's first quarrel with his fellow, Cain's murder of
Abel. The Fall is simply, "we have turned every one to his own way."[footnote1: Is. 53: 6]
If I want my own way rather than God's, it is quite obvious that I shall want my own way rather
than the other man's. A man does not assert his independence of God to surrender it to a fellow
man, if he can help it. But a world in which each man wants his own way cannot but be a world
full of tensions, barriers, suspicions, misunderstandings, clashes and conflicts.

Now the work of the Lord Jesus Christ on the Cross was not only to bring men back into fellowship
with God, but also into fellowship with their fellow men. Indeed it cannot do one without the
other. As the spokes get nearer the centre of the wheel, they get nearer to one another. But
if we have not been brought into vital fellowship with our brother, it is a proof that to that
extent we have not been brought into vital fellowship with God. The first epistle of John (what
a new light Revival sheds on this Scripture!) insists on testing the depth and reality of a
man's fellowship with God by the depth and reality of his fellowship with his brethren.[footnote2:I
John 2:9,3:14-15,4:20]

Some of us have come to see how utterly connected a man's relationship to his fellows is with
his relationship to God. Everything that comes as a barrier between us and another, be it never
so small, comes as a barrier between us and God. We have found that where these barriers are
not put right immediately, they get thicker and thicker until we find ourselves shut off from
God and our brother by what seem to be veritable brick walls. Quite obviously, if we allow
New Life to come to us, it will have to manifest itself by a walk of oneness with God and our
brother, with nothing between.

Light and Darkness.

On what basis can we have real fellowship with God and our brother? Here 1 John 1:7 has come
afresh to us. What is meant by light and darkness is that light reveals, darkness hides. When
anything reproves us, shows us up as we really are--that is light. "Whatsoever doth make manifest
is light."[footnote3:Eph.5: 13] But whenever we do anything or say anything (or don't say anything)
to hide what we are or what we've done--that is darkness.

Now the first effect of sin in our lives is always to make us try and hide what we are. Sin
made our first parents hide behind the trees of the garden and it has had the same effect on
us ever since. Sin always involves us in being unreal, pretending, duplicity, window dressing,
excusing ourselves and blaming others--and we can do all that as much by our silence as by
saying or doing something. This is what the previous verse calls "walking in darkness." With
some of us, the sin in question may be nothing more than self-consciousness (anything with
"I" in it is sin) and the hiding, nothing more than an assumed heartiness to cover that self-consciousness,
but it is walking in darkness none the less.

In contrast to all this in us, verse 5 of this chapter tells us that "God is light," that is,
God is the All-revealing One, who shows up every man as he really is. And it goes on to say,
"In Him is no darkness at all," that is, there is absolutely nothing in God which can be one
with the tiniest bit of darkness or hiding in us.

Quite obviously, then, it is utterly impossible for us to be walking in any degree of darkness
and have fellowship with God. While we are in that condition of darkness, we cannot have true
fellowship with our brother either--for we are not real with him, and no one can have fellowship
with an unreal person. A wall of reserve separates him and us.

The Only Basis for Fellowship.

The only basis for real fellowship with God and man is to live out in the open with both. "But
if we walk in the light, as He is in the light, we have fellowship one with another." To walk
in the light is the opposite of walking in darkness. Spurgeon defines it in one of his sermons
as "the willingness to know and be known." As far as God is concerned, this means that we are
willing to know the whole truth about ourselves, we are open to conviction. We will bend the
neck to the first twinges of conscience. Everything He shows us to be sin, we will deal with
as sin--we will hide or excuse nothing. Such a walk in the light cannot but discover sin increasingly
in our lives, and we shall see things to be sin which we never thought to be such before. For
that reason we might shrink from this walk, and be tempted to make for cover. But the verse
goes on with the precious words, "and the Blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanseth us from
all sin." Everything that the light of God shows up as sin, we can confess and carry to the
Fountain of Blood and it is gone, gone from God's sight and gone from our hearts. By the power
of the precious Blood we can be made more stainless than the driven snow; and thus continually
abiding in the light and cleansed by the Blood, we have fellowship with God.

But the fellowship promised us here is not only with God, but "one with another"; and that
involves us in walking in the light with our brother too. In any case, we cannot be "in the
open" with God and "in the dark" with him. This means that we must be as willing to know the
truth about ourselves from our brother as to know it from God. We must be prepared for him
to hold the light to us (and we must be willing to do the same service for him) and challenge
us in love about anything he sees in our lives which is not the highest. We must be willing
not only to know, but to be known by him for what we really are. That means we are not going
to hide our inner selves from those with whom we ought to be in fellowship; we are not going
to window dress and put on appearances; nor are we going to whitewash and excuse ourselves.
We are going to be honest about ourselves with them. We are willing to give up our spiritual
privacy, pocket our pride and risk our reputations for the sake of being open and transparent
with our brethren in Christ. It means, too, that we are not going to cherish any wrong feeling
in our hearts about another, but we are first going to claim deliverance from it from God and
put it right with the one concerned. As we walk this way, we shall find that we shall have
fellowship with one another at an altogether new level, and we shall not love one another less,
but infinitely more.

No Bondage.

Walking in the light is simply walking with Jesus. Therefore there need be no bondage about
it. We have not necessarily got to tell everybody everything about ourselves. The fundamental
thing is our attitude of walking in the light, rather than the act. Are we willing to be in
the open with our brother--and be so in word when God tells us to? That is the "armour of light"--true
transparency. This may sometimes be humbling, but it will help us to a new reality with Christ,
and to a new self-knowledge. We have become so used to the fact that God knows all about us
that it does not seem to register with us, and we inevitably end by not knowing the truth about
ourselves. But let a man begin to be absolutely honest about himself with but one other, as
God guides him, and he will come to a knowledge of himself and his sins that he never had before,
and he will begin to see more clearly than ever before where the redemption of Christ has got
to be applied progressively to his life. This is the reason why James tells us to put ourselves
under the discipline of "confessing our faults one to another."

In 1 John 1:7, of course, the purpose of "walking in the light" is that we might "have fellowship
one with another." And what fellowship it is when we walk this way together! Obviously, love
will flow from one to another, when each is prepared to be known as the repentant sinner he
is at the Cross of Jesus. When the barriers are down and the masks are off, God has a chance
of making us really one. But there is also the added joy of knowing that in such a fellowship
we are "safe." No fear now that others may be thinking thoughts about us or having reactions
toward us, which they are hiding from us. In a fellowship which is committed to walk in the
light beneath the Cross, we know that if there is any thought about us, it will quickly be
brought into the light, either in brokenness and confession (where there has been wrong and
unlove), or else as a loving challenge, as something that we ought to know about ourselves.

It must not, however, be forgotten that our walk in the light is first and foremost with the
Lord Jesus. It is with Him first that we must get things settled and it is His cleansing and
victory that must first be obtained. Then when God guides us to open our hearts with others,
we come to them with far more of a testimony than a confession (except where that is specifically
due) and we praise God together.

Teams of Two for Revival.

Jesus wants you to begin walking in the light with Him in a new way today. Join with one other--your
Christian friend, the person you live with, your wife, your husband. Drop the mask. God has
doubtless convicted you of one thing more than another that you have got to be honest with
them about. Start there. Be a team of two to work for revival amongst your circle. As others
are broken at the Cross they will be added to your fellowship, as God leads. Get together from
time to time for fellowship and to share your spiritual experience with real openness. In complete
oneness pray together for others, and go out as a team with fresh testimony. God through such
a fellowship will begin to work wondrously. As He saves and blesses others in this vital way,
they can start to live and work as a fellowship too. As one billiard ball will move another
billiard ball, so one group will set off another group, until the whole of our land is covered
with New Life from the risen Lord Jesus.

CHAPTER 4 THE HIGHWAY OF HOLINESS

One of the things that we must learn if we are to live the victorious Christian life is its
utter simplicity. How complicated we have made it! Great volumes are written, all sorts of
technical phrases are used, we are told the secret lies in this, or that and so on. But to
most of us, it is all so complicated that, although we know it in theory, we are unable to
relate what we know to our practical daily living. In order to make the simple truths we have
been considering even clearer, we want in this chapter to cast them all in picture form.

The Highway.

An "over-all" picture of the life of victory, which has come to many of us is that of the Highway
in Isaiah 35: "And an highway shall be there and a way and it shall be called the way of holiness."
The picture is that of a Highway built up from the surrounding morass, the world. Though the
Highway is narrow and uphill, it is not beyond any of us to walk it, for "the wayfaring men,
though fools, shall not err therein." Though there are many dangers if we get off the road,
while we keep to the Highway there is safety, for "no lion shall be there, nor any ravenous
beast shall go up thereon." Only one kind of person is barred from walking there and that is
the unclean one. "The unclean shall not pass over it." This includes not only the sinner who
does not know Christ as his Saviour, but the Christian who does and yet is walking in unconfessed
and uncleansed sin.

The only way on to the Highway is up a small dark, forbidding hill--the Hill of Calvary. It
is the sort of hill we have to climb on our hands and knees--especially our knees. If we are
content with our present Christian life, if we do not desire with a desperate hunger to get
on to the Highway, we shall never get to our knees and thus never climb the hill. But if we
are dissatisfied, if we are hungry, then we will find ourselves ascending. Don't hurry. Let
God make you really hungry for the Highway; let Him really drive you to your knees in longing
prayer. Mere sightseers won't get very far. "Ye shall find Me when ye shall search for Me with
all your heart."

A Low Door.

At the top of the hill, guarding the way to the Highway, stands so gaunt and grim ... the Cross.
There it stands, the Divider of time and the Divider of men. At the foot of the Cross is a
low door, so low that to get through it one has to stoop and crawl through. It is the only
entrance to the Highway. We must go through it if we would go any further on our way. This
door is called the Door of the Broken Ones. Only the broken can enter the Highway. To be broken
means to be "not I, but Christ." There is in every one of us a proud, stiff-necked "I." The
stiff neck began in the Garden of Eden when Adam and Eve, who had always bowed their heads
in surrender to God's will, stiffened their necks, struck out for independence and tried to
be "as gods." All the way through the Bible, God charges His people with the same stiff neck;
and it manifests itself in us, too. We are hard and unyielding. We are sensitive and easily
hurt. We get irritable, envious and critical. We are resentful and unforgiving. We are self-indulgent--and
how often that can lead to impurity! Every one of these things, and many more, spring from
this proud self within. If it were not there and Christ were in its place, we would not have
these reactions. Before we can enter the Highway, God must bend and break that stiff-necked
self, so that Christ reigns in its stead. To be broken means to have no rights before God and
man. It does not mean merely surrendering my rights to Him but rather recognising that I haven't
any, except to deserve hell. It means just being nothing and having nothing that I call my
own, neither time, money, possessions nor position.

In order to break our wills to His, God brings us to the foot of the Cross and there shows
us what real brokenness is. We see those wounded Hands and Feet, that Face of Love crowned
with thorns and we see the complete brokenness of the One who said, "Not my will, but Thine
be done," as He drank the bitter cup of our sin to its dregs. So the way to be broken is to
look on Him and to realise it was our sin which nailed Him there. Then as we see the love and
brokenness of the God who died in our place, our hearts will become strangely melted and we
will want to be broken for Him and we shall pray,

"Oh, to be saved from myself, dear Lord,
    Oh, to be lost in Thee,
Oh, that it might be no more I,
    But Christ that lives in me."

And some of us have found that there is no prayer that God is so swift to answer as the prayer
that He might break us.

A Constant Choice.

But do not let us imagine that we have to be broken only once as we go through the door. Ever
after it will be a constant choice before us. God brings His pressure to bear on us, but we
have to make the choice. If someone hurts and slights us, we immediately have the choice of
accepting the slight as a means of grace to humble us lower or we can resist it and stiffen
our necks again with all the disturbance of spirit that that is bound to bring. Right the way
through the day our brokenness will be tested and it is no use our pretending we are broken
before God, if we are not broken in our attitude to those around us. God nearly always tests
us through other people. There are no second causes for the Christian. God's will is made known
in His providence, and His providences are so often others with their many demands on us. If
you find yourself in a patch of unbrokenness, the only way is to go afresh to Calvary and see
Christ broken for you and you will come away willing to be broken for Him.

Over the Door of the Broken Ones is sprinkled the precious Blood of the Lord Jesus. As we bend
to crawl through, the Blood cleanses from all sin. For not only have we to bend to get through,
but only the clean can walk the Highway. Maybe you have never known Jesus as your Saviour,
maybe you have known Him for years, but in either case you are defiled by sin, the sins of
pride, envy, resentment, impurity, etc. If you will give them all to Him who bore them on the
Cross, He will whisper to you again what He once said on the Cross, "It is finished," and your
heart will be cleansed whiter than snow.

The Gift of His Fulness.

So we get on to the Highway. There it stretches before us, a narrow uphill road, bathed in
light, leading towards the Heavenly Jerusalem. The embankment on either side slopes away into
thick darkness. In fact, the darkness creeps right to the very edges of the Highway, but on
the Highway itself all is light. Behind us is the Cross, no longer dark and forbidding, but
radiant and glowing, and we no longer see Jesus stretched across its arms, but walking the
Highway overflowing with resurrection life. In His Hands He carries a pitcher with the Water
of Life. He comes right up to us and asks us to hold out our hearts, and just as if we were
handing Him a cup, we present to Him our empty hearts. He looks inside--a painful scrutiny--and
where He sees we have allowed His Blood to cleanse them, He fills them with the Water of Life.
So we go on our way rejoicing and praising God and overflowing with His new life. This is revival.
You and I full of the Holy Spirit all the time, loving others and concerned for their salvation.
No struggling, no tarrying. Just simply giving Him each sin to cleanse in His precious Blood
and accepting from His hands the free gift of His Fulness, and then allowing Him to do the
work through us. As we walk along with Him, He is always there continually filling so that
our cups continually overflow.

So the rest of our Christian life simply consists now of walking along the Highway, with hearts
overflowing, bowing the neck to His will all the time, constantly trusting the Blood to cleanse
us and living in complete oneness with Jesus. There is nothing spectacular about this life,
no emotional experiences to sigh after and wait for. It is just plain day to day living the
life the Lord intended us to live. This is real holiness.

Off the Highway.

