THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 20. No. 558.] SATURDAY, JULY 21, 1832. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW CHURCH OF ST. DUNSTAN IN THE WEST.

In our fourteenth volume we took a farewell glance of the old church of St. Dunstan, and adverted
to the proposed new structure. Little did we then expect that within three years the removal
of the old church would be effected, and a fabric of greatly surpassing beauty raised in its
place. All this has been accomplished by the unanimity of the parishioners of St. Dunstan,
unaided by any public grant, and assisted only by their own right spirit, integrity, and well-directed
taste. The erection of this Church, as the annexed Engraving shows, is not to be considered
merely as a parochial, but as a public, benefit, and must be ranked among the most important
of our metropolitan improvements. The different situation of the new and the old churches will
occasion an addition of 30 feet to the width of the opposite street, and it will be perceived
by the Engraving,[1] that improvements are contemplated in the houses adjoining the church,
so as to give an unique architectural character to this portion of the line of Fleet-street.

    [1] Copied, by permission, from a handsome Lithograph, published
    by Mr. Waller, Fleet-street.

The church has been built from the designs and under the superintendance of John Shaw, Esq.,
F.R. and A.S. the architect of Christ's Hospital. The tower is of the Kelton stone, a very
superior kind of freestone, of beautiful colour, from the county of Rutland. Of this material
King's College Chapel, Cambridge, and many other of our finest edifices have been constructed.
The tower has below an entrance doorway, finished with rich mouldings and tracery; on each
side are the arms of his Majesty and the City of London. Above is a clock with three dials,
and a belfry to admit the fine set of bells[2] from the old church, the sound of which will
doubtless receive effect through the four large upper windows which are the main features of
the tower. Above these windows, the tower, hitherto square, becomes gradually octagonal, springing
from corbeled heads; till terminated by four octagonal pinnacles, and crowned by an octagonal
moulded battlement. Upon the tower is an enriched stone lantern, perforated with gothic windows
of two heights, each angle having a buttress and enriched finial; the whole being terminated
by an ornamental, pierced, and very rich crown parapet. The height of the tower, to the battlements,
is 90 feet; and the whole height of the tower and lantern is 130 feet.

    [2] The tower of the old church was furnished with a set of
    eight very excellent bells: there was also a bell of a smaller
    size suspended in one of the turrets, which was rung every
    morning at a quarter before seven o'clock. On the walls of the
    belfry were some records of exploits in ringing, which had been
    performed there on different occasions.

The body of the church is of fine brick, finished with stone, and of octagon form, about 50
feet diameter. The interior has eight recesses; one of these being occupied by the altar with
a large pointed window above, and three others by the organ and galleries for the children
of the parish schools: the remaining four recesses are unoccupied by galleries; against their
walls are placed the sepulchral monuments from the old church. The octagon form was often adopted
in the lady-chapels at the east end of our most ancient cathedrals, where the recesses were
devoted to tombs and private chapels. The upper or clere story is supported on arches, with
an enriched gothic window in each compartment. The roof springs from clustered columns, branching
into an enriched groined ceiling, with a very large and embellished pendent key-stone in the
centre, from which will be suspended the chandelier to light the whole of the interior. The
ornaments of this key-stone are of a very elegant character: its foliated tracery, as well
as the richness of the bosses, corbels, and other embellishments throughout the interior, are
extremely beautiful. The pewing, gallery fronts, and fittings will be of fine oak; and we learn
that the altar and eight clere story windows will be filled with painted glass. The church
is calculated to hold about 900 persons.

The tower is connected with the main body by a lobby, and will front the street, enclosed with
a handsome railing. The builders of the church are Messrs. Browne and Atkinson, of Goswell-street,
London; and the pewing and interior fittings are about to be executed by Messrs. Cubitt.

       *       *       *       *       *

We could occupy a column or a page with enumerating the monumental remains of the old church,
although we have already mentioned the principal of them. (See Mirror, vol. xiv. p. 145-243.)
It is our intention to return to them, even if it be but to point the attention of the lover
of parochial antiquities to a Series of Views of St. Dunstan and its Monuments, with an Historical
Account of the Church, by the Rev. J.F. Denham; which by its concise yet satisfactory details,
leads us to wish that every parish in the metropolis were illustrated by so accomplished an
annalist.

       *       *       *       *       *

ITALIAN HYMN TO THE MADONNA.

  When the cypress-tree is weeping
    With the bright rose o'er the tomb.
  And the sunny orb is sleeping
    On the mountain's brow of gloom.
  Sweet mother at thy shrine
    Our spirits melt in prayer,
  Beneath the loveliness divine,
    Which art has pictured there.

  Or when the crystal star of Even
    Is mirror'd in the silent sea,
  And we can almost deem that heaven
    Derives its calmest smile from thee.
  Oh, virgin, if the lute
    Invokes thy name in song,
  Be thine the only voice that's mute,
    Amid the tuneful throng.

  When battle waves her falchion gory,
    Over the dead on sea or land,
  And one proud heart receives the glory,
    Won by the blood of many a band,
  If the hero's prayer to thee,
    From his fading lips be given,
  Awake his heart to ecstacy,
    With brightest hopes of heaven.

  Madonna! on whose bosom slumber'd,
    The infant, Christ, with sunny brow,
  The viewless hours have pass'd unnumber'd,
    Since we adored thy shrine as now;
  But not the gorgeous sky,
    Nor the blue expansive sea,
  To us such beauty could supply,
    As that which hallow'd thee!

  And when the scenes of life are faded
    From our dim eyes like phantom-things,
  When gentlest hearts with gloom are shaded,
    And cease to thrill at Fancy's strings,
  Thou, like the rainbow's form,
    When summer skies are dark,
  Shalt give thy light amid the storm,
    And guide the Wanderer's bark!

G.R. CARTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE FOOD.

We ought not perhaps to insist too much on the opinions of the heathen philosophers, because
the extension of knowledge, and a more matured experience, has shown the fallacy of many of
their notions; but if we were permitted to lay any stress on the authority of these celebrated
men, we might bring forward a mine of classical learning in commendation of a vegetable diet;
we might point to the life of a Pythagoras, or a Seneca, as well as to the works of a Plato,
and show how the wisest among the ancients lived, as well as thought, with regard to this subject.

But we shall be contented, as far as authority is concerned, to rest our claims to attention,
rather upon that which bears a more modern date, and to bring forward the evidence of facts
instead of the theories of ingenuity. The subject itself we may venture to hope, though a little
homely, is not without interest, and certainly not unimportant. It is somewhat scientific from
its very nature, and so far from being a matter confined to the medical faculty, it is one
on which every man exerts, every day of his existence, his own free choice, as far indeed as
custom has allowed him the exercise of that freedom.

But, though we will not go back to the dreams of our forefathers, (who, if they had more genius,
had fewer materials for it to work upon than their servile children,) yet we must always make
the Bible an exception, and in the present case we find it expedient as well as becoming, to
refer to that oldest and most valuable of records. We have there no express mention of eating
flesh before the Flood; but, on the contrary, a direct command that man should subsist on the
fruits of the earth. 33.)

Thus in the first ages of the world, and during the shepherd state of society, men lived upon
berries, and such fruits as the earth spontaneously produced; we have mentioned generally how
the philosophers of Greece and Rome preferred to live, and there are not wanting instances
of men bred up in the sensuality of modern times who have followed their example. The philosopher,
Franklin, who reached a great age, for a considerable portion of his life kept entirely to
a vegetable diet; and Abernethy, a name yet more familiar in our ears, has left us this maxim,
that "a vegetable diet and abstinence from fermented liquors tends more than anything else
to tranquillize the system."--(vide the Abernethian Code.) Another popular and scientific writer
of the present day makes a similar confession, which coming from such an unexpected quarter
carries weight: "Although professedly friends to gastronomy, moderated by a decided aversion
to anything like sensuality, we are of opinion that man is less fit to feed upon carnal than
vegetable substance." Thus we might go on multiplying authorities on this subject, but we shall
content ourselves with referring briefly to one or two authors of a more literary stamp, and
have done with quotation. The somewhat visionary but fascinating Rousseau, has also in his
Treatise of Education, to which we refer our readers, most powerfully condemned the use of
flesh, and he humorously attributes the proverbial boorishness of Englishmen to their fondness
for roast beef!

And now let us look a little to facts: in all ages of the world those have ever been the most
savage nations which observed an animal diet. Thus the Tartars, the Ethiopians, the Scythians,
and the Arabians, who live wholly on animal food, possess that ferocity of mind and fierceness
of character, common to carnivorous animals, while the vegetable diet of the Brahmins and Hindoos
gives to their character a gentleness and mildness directly the reverse; potatoes, chestnuts,
&c. satisfy the wants of the Alpine peasant, and there are numerous, harmless tribes, who feed
solely on vegetables and water. Even Homer in his time has made the Cyclops, who were flesh
eaters, horrid monsters of men, and the Lotophagi, he has described as a people so amiable,
that when strangers had once become acquainted with them, and tasted the fruits on which they
lived, they even forgot their native country to take up their abode with their hosts. But in
those civilized countries where animal food is commonly eaten, it must follow that the lower
orders, who compose the great majority of the population, cannot partake of it in any great
quantities; now it does not appear that the rich enjoy better health from this luxurious mode
of living, or that the poor are less healthy from the want of it; on the contrary, the wealthier
classes are subject to many chronic and other disorders arising from their aliment, and they
have a very large body of physicians, who subsist by a constant attendance on them, while on
the other hand, those in the lower walks of life are seldom out of health, owing to their more
simple and less injurious mode of living; they suffer only from accident and natural disease,
and, generally speaking, when they are attacked, it proves their first and last illness. Moreover,
as the poor are more at ease while they live, so too experience shows that they live longer;
cases of longevity are very rare with those in affluent circumstances, while most of the famous
instances on record of persons arriving at extraordinary old age, have been peasants, fishermen,
&c.

An hospital was established some short time since in the neighbourhood of London for the purpose
of experiment, and it was ascertained by actual computation, and by comparison with the bills
of mortality, that an average number of persons will reach a greater age by observing strictly
a vegetable diet.

Compared with the English, the French have a greater proportion of arable land than pasture,
and consequently they rear fewer cattle, yet they have a thriving population, and that would
hardly be if they were stinted in quality or quantity of food. The Irish peasantry live principally
on potatoes, yet they have seldom been found fault with as labourers, and seem to be a well-built
and able-bodied race of men. But we have not only sufficient proof of the beneficial effect
of vegetable aliment--there are many instances on record, if we had time or space for them--to
show how detrimental the contrary regimen has sometimes been. One example is worth mentioning:
a man was prevailed on by a reward to live upon partridges without any vegetables, but he was
obliged to desist at the end of eight days, from the appearance of strong symptoms of putrefaction.

That we live upon meat, and yet increase in growth and strength is little to the point, but
whether we might not be still better without it; dogs thrive upon flesh, but biscuits are better
for them: that we are fond of it is still less pertinent, for who does not know that custom
alters nature itself, that it becomes, in fact, a second nature, and that such things as we
are accustomed to, though actually evil in their own nature, yet become gradually less offensive,
and at last pleasant. We have very remarkable proofs of this in all parts of the world. In
China they eat cats and dogs, while the poorer classes think rats, mice, and other vermin,
no bad food. The Romans thought peacocks a dainty, which we quite nauseate. The Greenlander
and the Esquimaux relish train-oil, whilst these and all savages, on first tasting our wines
are disgusted and spit them out. Horse-flesh is commonly sold in the markets of the north.
Then again, there are some wandering Moors, who subsist entirely on gum senegal, and there
have been many cases of shipwreck where the mariners have even subsisted for weeks on old shoes,
tobacco, or whatever they could get; in short, what cannot custom effect? The Turk, by constant
habit, is enabled to take opium in quantities that would soon destroy us; and every one must
have known private cases where individuals in this country could take laudanum in surprising
doses; we have all more or less experienced the power of habit in our acquired tastes, and
whether we derive pleasure from the fumes of tobacco, or approve the flavour of olives, we
may remember that at first we disliked, or were indifferent about either. History itself informs
us, that Mithridates was able to drink poison; and there was a female slave, sent to Alexander
by King Porus, who was even brought up with it from her infancy. But to bring this influence
of custom upon the taste, still more in point, we find recorded in a work upon zoology, the
following remarkable case:--The provender for a lamb, which a ship's company had on board,
was all consumed; in the absence of other food they offered it flesh, which it was at last
compelled to devour, and gradually acquired such a relish for this new aliment, that it could
never after be prevailed on to eat any thing else.

It is very certain that the most natural tastes are the most simple: our first aliment is milk,
and it is only by degrees we bring ourselves to relish strong food; one speaking proof that
such stimulating diet is not natural to the human palate, is the indifference children have
for such food, and they evidently prefer pastry, fruit, &c., until the digestive organs become
more depraved. Neither has man the peculiarities of a carnivorous animal; he has no hawk-bill,
no sharp talons to tear his prey, and he wants that strength of stomach and power of digestion
which is requisite to assimilate such heavy fare; his tongue is not rough, but, as compared
with that of ravenous animals, of a very smooth texture; neither are his teeth pointed and
rough like a saw, which above all is a distinguishing mark. It is well known that in our West
Indian colonies, all the negroes still surviving, who were originally brought over from Africa,
have their teeth filed down to this day, which was at first expressly done for the purpose
of tearing and eating human flesh. It is probable that the first man who adopted this most
horrible custom, was driven to it by necessity and the want or scarcity of other food, and
we know certainly that cannibals are as much excited by the spirit of revenge as by an appetite
for flesh, in devouring their captured enemies; we, however, have not even this poor plea;
we are even ungrateful in attending to the satisfaction of our desires, for we kill without
remorse, as well the ox that labours for us, as the sheep that clothes us, and disregarding
all the natural wealth of the fields, and the delicacies of the garden, we capriciously destroy
creatures who are no doubt sent into the world to enjoy life as well as ourselves. But you
who contend that you are born with an inclination to such food, why object to kill what you
would eat? do it, however, with your own hands, and without the aid of a knife; tear your victim
to pieces with your fingers, as lions do with their claws, and after worrying a hare or a lamb,
fall on and eat alive as they do; drink up the flowing blood, and devour the flesh while it
is yet warm! Is not the very idea horrible? we know we could not do it; as it is, the sight
of uncooked flesh with all its raw horror excites loathing and disgust, and it is only by culinary
preparation, it can be softened and rendered somewhat more susceptible of mastication and digestion;
it must be completely transformed by roasting, boiling, &c., and afterwards so disguised by
salts, spices, and various sauces, that the natural taste is gone, the palate is deceived into
the admission of such uncouth fare, and finds a flavour in the taste of these cadaverous morsels.

May we be allowed to take for granted, that health may be preserved through the same means
by which it is recovered? If so, animal food is clearly an impediment to a healthy state of
body, for health is restored by a simple and fleshless diet, and therefore may be preserved
by the same regimen. That animal food is highly stimulant there can be no doubt; but like all
other stimulants, it produces weakness eventually, for when excitement has been brought to
its acme, debility must of necessity succeed.

The grand objection to an animal diet, is its detrimental effect upon the mind: it is well
known that flesh-eating makes the body strong and lusty, (and it is for that reason recommended
to pugilists who are in a course of training,) but the mind becomes weak and inactive; for
it must needs happen, where a muddy and clogged body is shackled down by heavy and unnatural
nourishment, that all the vigour and brilliancy of the understanding must be confused and made
dull, and that, wanting clearness for nobler things, it must ramble after little and unworthy
objects. The passions cannot fail to be excited, and thus the whole of the irrational nature
becoming fattened as it were, the soul is drawn downward and abandons its proper love of true
being. The truth of this we must all more or less have experienced: we are never so lively
when we have dined, and the studious man knows well that the morning is the more proper time
for his employment.

Why then should we not liberate ourselves from such inconvenience, by abandoning as far as
we can a fleshy diet? and let us remember, that even on the score of comfort, the pain of indigence
is much milder than that which is produced by repletion. We should thus free ourselves at once
from a heavy and somnolent condition of body, from many and vehement diseases, from the want
of medical assistance, from "the crassitude of the corporeal bond," and above all, from that
savage and unnatural strength which incites to base actions, so as to escape an Iliad of evils!

F.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY FATHERLAND.

FROM THE GERMAN OF KORNER.

  Where is the minstrel's Fatherland?
    'Tis where the spirit warmest glows,
    Where laurels bloom for noblest brows,
    Where warlike hearts the truest vows
      Swear, lit by friendship's holy brand;
      There was once my Fatherland.

  What calls the minstrel, Fatherland?
    That land, which weeps beneath the yoke
    Its slaughter'd sons, and foeman's stroke:
    Land of the stern, unbending oak.
      Land of the free, the German land,
      That once I call'd my Fatherland.

  Why weeps the minstrel's Fatherland?
    It weeps before a tyrant's dread,
    The valour of its monarch's fled;
    At Deutchland's voice a people dead,
      Despised, unheeded its command.
      This, this weeps, my Fatherland.

  Whom calls the minstrel's Fatherland?
    It calls on spirits pale with wonder,
    In desperation's words of thunder,
    To rise and burst its chain asunder.
      On retribution's vengeful hand,
      On this calls my Fatherland.

  What would the minstrel's Fatherland?
    To blot out slav'ry's foul disgrace,
    The bloodhound from its realms to chase,
    And free to bear a freeborn race:
      Or bid them free beneath its sand,
      This, this would my Fatherland.

  And hopes the minstrel's Fatherland?
    Yes, that for God and Deutchland's sake,
    Its own true people will awake,
    And outrag'd heaven, vengeance take;
      That he,[3] whose prowess has been scann'd,
      Will save the minstrel's Fatherland.

H.

    [3] Blucher.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NATURALIST.

       *       *       *       *       *

ERRORS IN NATURAL HISTORY.

(From Chit-chat, in the Magazine of Natural History, by Dovaston and Von Osdat.)

Dov. Ray tells a humourous story, that, after the patiently exploring commissioners, at the
end of their long examinations, deliberately confessed their utter ignorance to account for
the Goodwin Sands, an old man gravely asserted Tenterden steeple to be the cause.

Von Os. Tenterden steeple!

Dov. Ay; Tenterden steeple: for that those sands first appeared the year it was erected.

Von Os. And the slightest interview with the mass of mankind, any hour, will prove the race
of Tenterden philosophers to be far from extinct.

Dov. Particularly with regard to facts relative to natural history: and this is the more lamentable,
and perhaps the more surprising, when we consider its unlimited adaptability to all capacities,
ages, sexes, and ranks; and, moreover, the absolute necessity of many parts of it to their
intellectual existence.

Von Os. There is in our village, a slater, very fond of keeping bees. These useful insects,
he says, at breeding-time sweat prodigiously; and each lays four eggs at the bottom of each
cell: soon after which, he has observed the combs to become full of maggots, which must be
carefully destroyed by smoke! When any one of his numerous family is buried, as the corpse
passes out of the house, he carefully loosens every hive, and lifts it up; otherwise, he says,
the bees would all die!

Dov. The superstitions about bees are numberless.

Von Os. And yet this poor fellow believes himself inspired with "grace abounding;" and readily
undertakes to "spound," as he calls it, any verse read to him, however remotely insulated from
the context.

Dov. But what would you think of a gentleman I have the pleasure of visiting in the higher
ranks, and whose conversation is really a happiness to me, who talks of little young bees?--and
really believes that they grow! He smiled at me compassionately when I told him that insects
never grew when in the perfect state; but, like Minerva from the brain of Jove, issue full-armed
with sharpest weapons, and corslets of burnished green, purple, and gold, in panoply complete:
yet is this gentleman a man of genius, wit, and very extensive knowledge.

Von Os. Not in bees.

Dov. He was not aware of the numerous species of British bees; and that several, of a small
intrepid sort, will enter the hives, and prey on the treasures of their more industrious congeners.

Von Os. Reasoning from analogy does not do in natural history.

Dov. No; for who, without observation, or the information of others, ever by analogical reasoning
could reconcile the enormous difference of size and colour, in the sexes of some of the humble
bees?--or ever discover that in some species there are even females of two sizes?

Von Os. But these never grow.

Dov. Certainly not. Bees, however, hatched in very old cells, will be somewhat smaller: as
each maggot leaves a skin behind which, though thinner than the finest silk, layer after layer,
contracts the cells, and somewhat compresses the future bee.

Von Os. No ignorance is so contemptible as that of what is hourly before our eyes. I do not
so much wonder at the fellow who inquired if America was a very large town, as at him who,
finding the froth of the Cicada spumaria L. on almost every blade in his garden, wondered where
were all the cuckoos that produced it.

Dov. They call it cuckoo-spit, from its plentiful appearance about the arrival of that bird.

Von Os. That is reasoning from analogy.

Dov. And yet I see not why the bird should be given to spitting; unless, indeed, he came from
America.

Von Os. The vulgar, too, not only delight in wonders inexplicable, but have a rabid propensity
to pry into futurity.

Dov. I believe that propensity is far from being confined to the vulgar.

Von Os. True; but not in so ridiculous a way: as they prophesy the future price of wheat from
the number of lenticular knobs (containing the sporules) in the bottom of a cup of the fungus
Nidularia.

Dov. The weather may be foretold with considerable certainty, for a short time, from many hygrometric
plants, and the atmospheric influence on animals.

Von Os. And from Cloudology, by the changing of primary clouds into compound; and these resolving
themselves into nimbi, for rain; or gathering into cumuli, for fair weather. This is like to
become a very useful and pleasing science.

Dov. It is wonders of this kind, and forewarnings of this nature, that natural history offers
to the contemplative mind: in the place of superstitious follies, and unavailing predictions,
such as the foretelling of luck from the number or chattering of magpies; and the wonder how
red clover changes itself into grass, as many a farmer at this moment believes.

Von Os. Linnaeus himself was a bit of a prophet; as, indeed, thus well he might; for experience
and observation amount almost to the power of vatacination. In his Academic Aménities he says,
"Deus, O.M. et Natura nihil frustra creaverit. Posteros tamen tot inventuros fore utilitates
ex muscis arguor, quot ex reliquis vegetabilibus."

