At this critical moment an agonizing shriek rang through the forest. The same runners who had
sped to Marie Torode's cottage and had learnt there that the wise woman had in truth passed
away, had brought back with them Suzanne's mother, who threw herself on her child's body endeavouring
to staunch the blood, and to restore animation. Finding her efforts vain, she had listened
anxiously to the words that had passed, and on hearing the priest's sentence of doom she burst
into frantic grief and supplication. Turning to each disputant she cried--"Save her! save her
young life! I suckled her, I reared her, I love her!--oh, how I love her!--do not let her die!"

"She can be saved!" curtly responded the stranger. The priest was silent. A murmur arose. Austin,
who had trained himself to study those among whom he laboured, saw that the feeling was rising
strongly against him. His antagonist saw it also, and pressed her victory.

"Yes!" she said scornfully, "it is a small matter for my Gods to save her, but they will not
be besought while this bald-pate obtrudes his presence. Let him leave us!"

The priest was much perplexed. He knew the skill of these lonely women; secretly he had faith
in their power of witchcraft, though attributing it to the direct agency of Satan. He thought
it not impossible that there was truth in the boast; and his heart was wrung with the mother's
grief. On the other hand, the public defeat was a sore trial; but it was clear to him that
for the present at least the analogy of Elijah's struggle was imperfect: he must wait, and
meanwhile bear his discomfiture with meekness. He prepared to retire. The victor was not, however,
even now satisfied. "Take with you," she said, "yon idol that defaces the sacred oak!"

The good fathers, following their usual practice of associating emblems of heathen with those
of Christian worship, in the hope of gradually diverting the reverence to the latter without
giving to the former a ruder shock than could be endured, had suspended a small cross on the
oak, hoping eventually to carve the tree itself into a sacred emblem; it was to this that the
woman was pointing with a sneer.

But this time she had made a blunder. Father Austin turned to the crucifix and his strength
and fire returned. Taking it from the tree, reverently kissing it and holding it aloft, he
said solemnly--"Let my brothers and sisters come with me! We will pray apart, where no profane
words can reach us. Perchance our prayers may be granted!" Not a few of the hearers followed
him; sufficient indeed to make an imposing procession: the triumph of the Evil One was at least
dimmed.

But his adversary did not appear to notice their departure. She gave a sharp glance in the
direction of the oak, and the now discrowned girl was quickly at her side. Receiving some rapid
instructions, the latter disappeared into the wood, and shortly returned with some herbs, which
she passed to her companion; she then resumed her position by the stone. The old woman placed
some leaves, which she selected, on the wound: the bleeding at once ceased; squeezing juice
from the herbs, she applied an ointment made from it; then, opening a phial attached to her
waist-belt, she poured some drops of liquid into the girl's mouth, gently parting her lips.
This done, she stood erect and began an incantation, or rather a supplication, in an unknown
tongue. As she proceeded her form became rigid, her eye gleamed, her arms, the hands clenched,
were raised above her head. The sun flashed on the circlet, glittered on the embossed girdle:
on the right arm was a heavy bracelet, composed of a golden serpent winding in weird folds
round a human bone; the head was towards the wearer's wrist, and the jewelled eyes which, being
of large size, must have been formed of rare stones, glowed and shot fire as the red beams
struck on them through the branches. It seemed that a forked tongue darted in and out, but
this may have been imagined by the heated fancies of the bystanders. The prayer ended; the
stillness of death rested a moment on man and nature; then a wild gust of wind, striking the
oak without any preliminary warning, bent and snapped the upper branches, and crashed inland
through the swaying forest. The watchers saw the colour return to the cheeks of the wounded
girl, who opened her eyes and sate up. "Take her home," said the sorceress, now quite composed,
to the mother; "she is yours again!--till Marie calls her!" she added in a low voice to herself.
The happy mother, shedding tears of joy, but in vain attempting to get her thanks accepted,
obeyed the injunction.

As she and her friends disappeared, the old woman, turning to the awed people who seemed more
than ever disposed to look on her as a supernatural being, said sternly--"Why linger you here?
Are you unmindful of your duties? See you not how the shadows lengthen?" These words produced
a magical effect: the deep emotions by which the mass had been recently swayed were swiftly
replaced by equally profound feelings of a different nature, as cloud succeeds cloud in a storm-swept
sky.

And now a singular scene was enacted. A procession was formed, headed by the old men, bare-headed;
the musicians followed, behind whom walked with solemn step the younger members of the community.
This procession, emerging from the western border of the forest, slowly climbed the slopes
of the Rocque du Guet, and arriving at the summit bent its way seaward, halting at the edge
of the precipitous cliff.

The sun was nearing the horizon. The scene was one of unsurpassed loveliness. Behind lay the
central and southern portions of the island, hushed as if their primaeval rocks were still
tenantless. The outlines of the isles of Herm and Jethou were visible, but already sinking
into the shades of evening. On the left the bold bluffs of L'Erée and Lihou, on the right the
rugged masses of the Grandes and the Grosses Rocques, the Gros Commet, the Grande and Petite
Fourque, lay in sharpened outline, the lapping waves already assuming a grey tint. These masses
formed the framework of a picture which embraced a boundless wealth of colour, an infinite
depth of softness. Straight from the sun shot out across Cobo Bay a joyous river of gold, so
bright that eye could ill bear to face its glow; here and there in its course stood out quaintly-shaped
rocks, some drenched with the fulness of the glorious bath, others catching now and again a
sprinkling shower. On each side of the river the sea, clear to its depths where alternate sand
and rock made a tangle of capriciously mingled light and shade; its surface, here blue as the
still waters of the Grotta Azzurra, there green as the olive, here again red-brown as Carthaginian
marble, lay waveless, as with a sense that the beauty was too perfect to be disturbed. Suddenly
the scene was changed; the lustrous outflow was swiftly drawn in and absorbed; a grey hue swept
over the darkening surface; in the distance the round, blood-coloured, orb hung above the expectant
ocean.

Then all assembled fell on their knees. The music gave out sharp plaintive notes which were
answered by the voices of men and women in short, wailing, as it were inquiring, rhythm; this
continued till the sun was on the point of disappearance, when music and voices together burst
into a sad chant, seemingly of farewell; the kneeling people extending their hands seaward
with an appealing gesture. One figure only was erect; on the projecting boulder, which is still
so conspicuous a feature of the Rocque du Guet, stood the sorceress, her arms also outstretched,
her figure, firm, erect, sharply outlined, such as Turner's mind conceived when he sketched
the Last Man.

Father Austin contemplated the scene from a distance. By his side was his favourite convert,
Jean Letocq.

"Strange!" he said, placing his hand on his companion's shoulder. "Your race are not sun-worshippers.
Never, except on this day of the year, do they show this feeling; but who that saw them to-day
would doubt that they are so! Is it that from old times their intense love of nature has led
them to show in this way their sadness at its decay? or do they by mourning over the close
of the sun's longest day symbolize their recognition of the inevitable end of the longest life
of man? I cannot tell. But, blind as this worship is, it is better than that of the work of
man's hands. By God's will your countrymen may be led from kneeling to the created to mount
the ladder till they bend the knee only to the Creator. It may be well, too, that their chosen
object of veneration is the only object in nature which dies but to rise again. Thus may they
be led to the comprehension of the great truth of the resurrection. But Satan," he added with
warmth, "must be wrestled with and cast down, specially when he takes the forms of temptation
which he has assumed to-day: those of power and beauty. Prayer and fasting are sorely needed."

For once his pupil was not altogether docile. "Thou hast taught me, father," he replied, "the
lesson of charity. This old woman is sinful, her error is deep, but may she not be converted
and saved?"

"The devils can never regain Paradise," replied the priest sternly. "Arm thyself, Jean, against
their wiles, in which I fear thou art already entangled. The two forms we have to-day seen
are but human in seeming: demons surely lurked beneath."

Jean was now in open rebellion. "Nay, good father," he said decisively, "the maiden was no
fiend; if her companion be an imp of darkness, as well she may, be it my task to rescue her
from the evil snare into which she has fallen!" He had indeed a vivid recollection of the soft,
human hand to which he had ventured to give a gentle pressure when he had assisted in placing
the wreath on the fair, marble, brow, and had no doubt of the girl's womanhood. As he spoke
he vanished from the side of the priest, who, seeing the two objects of his pious aversion
entering the darkening glades of the wood, was at no loss to divine the cause of his disappearance.
The holy father shook his head, and sighed deeply. He was accustomed to disappointments, but
this day his path had to an unusual extent been beset with thorns. His faith was unshaken,
and he humbly laid the fault on his own shoulders, promising further privations to his already
sorely afflicted body. Meanwhile he descended the hill, directing his course to Lihou. Pausing
on his way through the forest to replace the cross on the oak, he saw Jean, walking slowly
homewards, his listless step showing that his quest had failed. The Evil One had, he thought,
for the time at least, forborne to press his advantage. Further off he heard the scattered
voices of the dispersing throng.

CHAPTER III.

DEVOTION.

    "There glides a step through the foliage thick,
    And her cheek grows pale and her heart beats quick,
    There whispers a voice through the rustling leaves,
    And her blush returns, and her bosom heaves;
    A moment more--and they shall meet.
    'Tis past--her lover's at her feet."

    Parasina.--BYRON.

After visiting all the accessible parts of the island Jean satisfied himself that it was useless
to search further in them for traces of the strangers. Persons so remarkable could not, it
was clear, conceal themselves from the knowledge of the inhabitants. He must therefore either
admit that the monk's surmise was correct, or must search in quarters hitherto unexplored.
Though his rejection of the former alternative was a foregone conclusion, his adoption of the
latter was a remarkable proof of the strength of his passion. There was only one district unexplored,
and that was practically unapproachable.

Early in the sixth century some piratical vessels had entered Rocquaine Bay in a shattered
condition; the crews succeeded in landing, but the ships, for seagoing purposes, were beyond
repair. The pirates penetrated inland, driving out the inhabitants from Torteval and some of
the adjoining valleys. Here they settled; and being skilled in hunting and fishing, having
a fair knowledge of husbandry, and finding the position peculiarly adapted for their marauding
pursuits, throve and prospered: so much so that when, some years afterwards, they had an opportunity
of leaving, the majority elected to remain. Their descendants had continued to occupy the same
district. Who they were, whether pure Northmen or of some mixed race, it would be idle to conjecture:
they were originally put down by the islanders as Sarrazins, that being the name under which
the simple people classed all pirates; the strangers, however, resented this description, and
had consequently come to be spoken of as Les Voizins, a definition to which no exception could
be taken. Hardy and warlike, quick of temper and rough of speech, they had an undisputed ascendancy
over the natives, to whom, though dangerous if provoked, they had often given powerful aid
in times of peril. On the whole they made not bad neighbours, but a condition was imposed by
them the violation of which was never forgiven: no native was permitted, under any pretext,
to enter their territory; death was the sure fate of an intruder found in Rocquaine Bay or
setting foot in the Voizin hills or valleys. Whatever may have been the cause of this regulation
the result had been to keep the race as pure as it was on the day of the first landing.

Now it was in the Terre des Voizins that Jean had resolved to seek his beloved, and his resolution
was unalterable. He knew the danger; he wished to avoid death if possible; he meant to employ
to the full the resources at his command; foolhardy as his enterprise seemed it was long and
carefully planned. He knew that in the summer evenings it was the custom of the Voizin women
to visit the sunny shores of the bay: this he had seen from Lihou; could he then succeed in
landing unperceived, and in concealing himself in one of the many clefts of the rocks, he felt
sure that if the well-known form were there he would descry it; what would follow afterwards
was a question which had taken many fantastic shapes in his imagination, none of which had
assumed a definite form.

Towards the close of July the conditions were favourable for his attempt. In the night a strong
tide would be running into the bay; the wind was south-westerly, the moon set early. He prepared
to start. He had selected a small and light boat, which would travel fast under his powerful
strokes, and might be so handled as not to attract attention; in it he had stored provisions
which would last for a few days and a small cask of fresh water. Towards evening he shaped
his course for Lihou.

He had seen but little of the monk since the day of the feast, but he was yearning to see him
now. His love for the man, his reverence for the truths he taught, his thought of his own future
if he lost his life in his rash expedition, all urged him to seek a parting interview.

The brothers received him affectionately and bade him join their frugal meal. The monks were
five in number: they had been six, but one had recently been drowned while returning from a
pious mission to Herm. Jean knew them all; they were honest, God-fearing men, trustful and
truthful. If their reasoning powers were not great, their faith was unswerving. Their life
was a prolonged asceticism, and they had fair reason to expect that martyrdom would be their
earthly crown.

The only exceptional feature of the repast was the appearance of one who had never yet been
seated there in Jean's presence; this guest was the hermit who dwelt on the extreme point,
against which the Atlantic waves dashed in their fiercest fury. The recluse did not seem to
cultivate the duty of abstemiousness, but he maintained silence. Jean could not forbear furtively
scanning his appearance, which was indeed remarkable. He would have been of large stature in
any country; compared with the natives his proportions were gigantic. His broad shoulders and
muscular arms betokened enormous strength; his hair and beard were fair; his blue eyes had
a clear, frank, expression; there was firmness of purpose in his massive jaw; he seemed between
forty and fifty, and would have been strikingly handsome but for three deep scars which totally
marred the expression of his features. As Jean eyed him he returned the compliment, but the
meal was soon over and the youth accompanied Father Austin to his cell.

There a long and sleepless night was passed by both. The monk in vain endeavoured to combat
Jean's resolution; he argued, prayed, indeed threatened, but without effect. Finding his efforts
hopeless he abandoned them, and endeavoured to fortify his charge against the influence of
the spell under which he believed him to have fallen. Then the young man was again the pupil;
he listened humbly and reverently to the repetition of the great truths which the father strove
to rivet on his mind, and joined earnestly in the prayers for truth and constancy. As daylight
broke, and he at length laid himself down to rest, his latest vision was that of the good man
kneeling by him with that rapt look of contemplation which seemed to foreshadow his immortality.

Jean slept profoundly for some hours. When night began to fall he received Austin's blessing,
no further reference being made to his expedition, and when the moon was on the eve of disappearance
he launched his boat. As he rounded Lihou point another boat shot out, the occupant of which
hailed him. Recognizing the hermit, Jean paused. "You steer wrong," said the giant, speaking
with an accent which at once reminded his hearer of that of the maiden; "your course is to
the rising sun." "I go where I will," replied Jean, nettled at this unlooked-for interruption.
"Youth," answered the other, "I have watched thee and wish thee well! rush not heedlessly to
certain death!" "Stay me not!" resolutely answered Jean, wondering at the interest taken in
him by this strange being. "Thou knowest not!" said the hermit sternly; "it is not only from
death I wish to save thee, but from worse than death; I tell thee I--" He checked himself,
as if fearful of saying too much, and bent his eyes searchingly into those of Jean, who murmured
simply, "I am resolved." "Then God help thee and speed thee!" said the giant. Glancing into
the boat he saw one of the curved and pierced shells then, as now, used by Guernsey seamen
as signal-horns: pointing to it he said, "If in peril, where a blast may be heard on Lihou,
sound the horn twice: it is a poor hope but may serve thee!" He was gone.

Jean paddled into the dreaded bay; the moon had now sunk and he was further favoured by a slight
mist. Knowing the tides from infancy, he worked his way noiselessly till he approached where
the Voizin fleet lay, then laid himself down and let the current take him. He passed several
boats in safety; as far as he could judge, from the observations he had taken from Lihou, he
was nearly past the anchorage when a crash, succeeded by a grating sound, warned him of danger.
A curse, followed by an ejaculation of surprise and pleasure, enlightened him as to the nature
of the collision: he was in contact with one of the anchored vessels. "Odin is good!" cried
a voice; "ha! a skiff drifted from a wrecked vessel! and all eyes but mine sleeping!" The speaker
threw over a small anchor and grappled the boat. Jean was prepared; without a moment's hesitation
he cut the anchor-rope: his craft drifted onwards, leaving the fisherman grumbling at the rottenness
of his tackle. He offered a short prayer of gratitude, and in a few minutes ventured cautiously
to resume his oars. He heard the breaking of the waves, but seamanship on the unknown and indistinct
coast was useless. Two sharp blows, striking the boat in rapid succession, told him that he
had touched a submerged rock; the strong tide carried him off it, but the water poured in through
a gaping rent. He was now, however, on a sandy bottom: he sprang out, pulled the boat up as
far as possible, and sat down to wait for light.

The first break of dawn showed him his position: he was facing northward; he was therefore
on the Hanois arm of the bay. Fortune had indeed been kind to him, for he had drifted into
a small cleft sheltered by precipitous rocks, a place where concealment was fairly possible,
as it was accessible only by land at the lowest tides. He examined his store of provisions,
which was uninjured; storing it among the rocks he rested till the sun sank. He then cautiously
climbed the cliff, and looked on the scene revealed by the moonlight. Seawards stood a rough
round tower; no other building was visible on the point, which seemed deserted. The loneliness
gave him courage; when the moon set, the night being clear, he explored further and satisfied
himself that there were no human beings, except the occupants of the tower, living on these
rocks. He retired to his hiding-place to rest; before dawn he again ascended and concealed
himself among the bracken and brambles which formed the only available shelter. During the
whole day he saw but one person, an elderly woman, whose dark features and bright kerchief
showed her to be of southern or gipsy origin, and who passed backwards and forwards carrying
water to the tower. His examination increased his confidence; he calculated, by measuring the
time occupied by the old woman in passing with an empty and returning with a full pitcher,
that the spring frequented by her could not be far distant; at night he found it just beyond
the junction of the rocks with the mainland. The water was cool and fresh, and considerably
revived him; he noticed too that the luxuriant brushwood, nourished by the moisture, offered
a good place for concealment; he returned, removed thither what remained of his provisions,
and ensconced himself in his new retreat.

In the morning he saw two figures approaching from the tower; one was the same servant he had
seen before, but the other!--his heart throbbed and leaped, his brain reeled, his eyes gazed
hungrily; he could not be, he was not, mistaken!--the second figure was the heroine of his
dreams! She walked silently. Jean saw that memory had not played him false: her beauty, her
grace, were no freak of his imagination; would the holy father now say that she was a devil,
while thus she moved in her loveliness, a woman to be loved and worshipped!--a very woman,
too! not above the cares of life! Seating herself by the spring she despatched her companion
on an errand to supply domestic wants, promising to await her return.

