In 1831, when the dispute was raging with the utmost virulence, a private citizen of Massachusetts
proposed to all the enemies of the tariff, by means of the public prints, to send delegates
to Philadelphia in order to consult together upon the means which were most fitted to promote
freedom of trade. This proposal circulated in a few days from Maine to New Orleans by the power
of the printing-press: the opponents of the tariff adopted it with enthusiasm; meetings were
formed on all sides, and delegates were named. The majority of these individuals were well
known, and some of them had earned a considerable degree of celebrity. South Carolina alone,
which afterwards took up arms in the same cause, sent sixty-three delegates. On October 1,
1831, this assembly, which according to the American custom had taken the name of a Convention,
met at Philadelphia; it consisted of more than two hundred members. Its debates were public,
and they at once assumed a legislative character; the extent of the powers of Congress, the
theories of free trade, and the different clauses of the tariff, were discussed in turn. At
the end of ten days' deliberation the Convention broke up, after having published an address
to the American people, in which it declared:

I. That Congress had not the right of making a tariff, and that the existing tariff was unconstitutional;

II. That the prohibition of free trade was prejudicial to the interests of all nations, and
to that of the American people in particular.

It must be acknowledged that the unrestrained liberty of political association has not hitherto
produced, in the United States, those fatal consequences which might perhaps be expected from
it elsewhere. The right of association was imported from England, and it has always existed
in America; so that the exercise of this privilege is now amalgamated with the manners and
customs of the people. At the present time the liberty of association is become a necessary
guarantee against the tyranny of the majority. In the United States, as soon as a party is
become preponderant, all public authority passes under its control; its private supporters
occupy all the places, and have all the force of the administration at their disposal. As the
most distinguished partisans of the other side of the question are unable to surmount the obstacles
which exclude them from power, they require some means of establishing themselves upon their
own basis, and of opposing the moral authority of the minority to the physical power which
domineers over it. Thus a dangerous expedient is used to obviate a still more formidable danger.

The omnipotence of the majority appears to me to present such extreme perils to the American
Republics that the dangerous measure which is used to repress it seems to be more advantageous
than prejudicial. And here I am about to advance a proposition which may remind the reader
of what I said before in speaking of municipal freedom: There are no countries in which associations
are more needed, to prevent the despotism of faction or the arbitrary power of a prince, than
those which are democratically constituted. In aristocratic nations the body of the nobles
and the more opulent part of the community are in themselves natural associations, which act
as checks upon the abuses of power. In countries in which these associations do not exist,
if private individuals are unable to create an artificial and a temporary substitute for them,
I can imagine no permanent protection against the most galling tyranny; and a great people
may be oppressed by a small faction, or by a single individual, with impunity.

The meeting of a great political Convention (for there are Conventions of all kinds), which
may frequently become a necessary measure, is always a serious occurrence, even in America,
and one which is never looked forward to, by the judicious friends of the country, without
alarm. This was very perceptible in the Convention of 1831, at which the exertions of all the
most distinguished members of the Assembly tended to moderate its language, and to restrain
the subjects which it treated within certain limits. It is probable, in fact, that the Convention
of 1831 exercised a very great influence upon the minds of the malcontents, and prepared them
for the open revolt against the commercial laws of the Union which took place in 1832.

It cannot be denied that the unrestrained liberty of association for political purposes is
the privilege which a people is longest in learning how to exercise. If it does not throw the
nation into anarchy, it perpetually augments the chances of that calamity. On one point, however,
this perilous liberty offers a security against dangers of another kind; in countries where
associations are free, secret societies are unknown. In America there are numerous factions,
but no conspiracies.

Different ways in which the right of association is understood in Europe and in the United
States--Different use which is made of it.

The most natural privilege of man, next to the right of acting for himself, is that of combining
his exertions with those of his fellow-creatures, and of acting in common with them. I am therefore
led to conclude that the right of association is almost as inalienable as the right of personal
liberty. No legislator can attack it without impairing the very foundations of society. Nevertheless,
if the liberty of association is a fruitful source of advantages and prosperity to some nations,
it may be perverted or carried to excess by others, and the element of life may be changed
into an element of destruction. A comparison of the different methods which associations pursue
in those countries in which they are managed with discretion, as well as in those where liberty
degenerates into license, may perhaps be thought useful both to governments and to parties.

The greater part of Europeans look upon an association as a weapon which is to be hastily fashioned,
and immediately tried in the conflict. A society is formed for discussion, but the idea of
impending action prevails in the minds of those who constitute it: it is, in fact, an army;
and the time given to parley serves to reckon up the strength and to animate the courage of
the host, after which they direct their march against the enemy. Resources which lie within
the bounds of the law may suggest themselves to the persons who compose it as means, but never
as the only means, of success.

Such, however, is not the manner in which the right of association is understood in the United
States. In America the citizens who form the minority associate, in order, in the first place,
to show their numerical strength, and so to diminish the moral authority of the majority; and,
in the second place, to stimulate competition, and to discover those arguments which are most
fitted to act upon the majority; for they always entertain hopes of drawing over their opponents
to their own side, and of afterwards disposing of the supreme power in their name. Political
associations in the United States are therefore peaceable in their intentions, and strictly
legal in the means which they employ; and they assert with perfect truth that they only aim
at success by lawful expedients.

