Locating the point on which the shadow of the old Cathedral of Learning had fallen proved easier
than either Altamont or Loudons had expected. The towering building was now a tumbled mass
of slagged rubble, but it was quite possible to determine its original center, and with the
old data from the excellent reference library at Fort Ridgeway, its height above sea level
was known. After a little jockeying, the helicopter came to a hovering stop, and the slanting
barrel of the rifle in the vise pointed downward along the line of the shadow that had been
cast on that afternoon in June, 1993, the cross hairs of the scope-sight centered almost exactly
on the spot Altamont had estimated on the map. While he peered through the sight, Loudons brought
the helicopter slanting down to land on the sheet of fused glass that had once been a grassy
campus.

"Well, this is probably it," Altamont said. "We didn't have to bother fussing around with that
flag, after all. That hump, over there, looks as though it had been a small building, and there's
nothing corresponding to it on the city map. That may be the bunker over the stair-head to
the crypt."

They began unloading equipment--a small portable nuclear-electric conversion unit, a powerful
solenoid-hammer, crowbars and intrenching tools, tins of blasting-plastic. They took out the
two hunting rifles, and the auto-carbines, and Altamont showed the young men of Murray Hughes'
detail how to use them.

"If you'll pardon me, sir," the Tenant said to Altamont, "I think it would be a good idea if
your companion went up in the flying machine and circled around over us, to keep watch for
Scowrers. There are quite a few of them, particularly farther up the rivers, to the east, where
the damage was not so great and they can find cellars and shelters and buildings to live in."

"Good idea; that way, we won't have to put out guards," Altamont said. "From the looks of this,
we'll need everybody to help dig into that thing. Hand out one of the portable radios, Jim,
and go up to about a thousand feet. If you see anything suspicious, give us a yell, and then
spray it with bullets, and find out what it is afterward."

They waited until the helicopter had climbed to position and was circling above, and then turned
their attention to the place where the sheet of fused earth and stone bulged upward. It must
have been almost ground-zero of one of the hydrogen-bombs; the wreckage of the Cathedral of
Learning had fallen predominantly to the north, and the Carnegie Library was tumbled to the east.

"I think the entrance would be on this side, toward the Library," Altamont said. "Let's try
it, to begin with."

He used the solenoid-hammer, slowly pounding a hole into the glaze, and placed a small charge
of the plastic explosive. Chunks of the lavalike stuff pelted down between the little mound
and the huge one of the old library, blowing a hole six feet in diameter and two and a half
deep, revealing concrete bonded with crushed steel-mill slag.

"We missed the door," he said. "That means we'll have to tunnel in through who knows how much
concrete. Well--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He used a second and larger charge, after digging a hole a foot deep. When he and his helpers
came up to look, they found a large mass of concrete blown out, and solid steel behind it.
Altamont cut two more holes sidewise, one on either side of the blown-out place, and fired
a charge in each of them, bringing down more concrete. He found that he hadn't missed the door,
after all. It had merely been concreted over.

