FIVE CENTS.

  THE GREAT ROUND WORLD
  AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT

    Vol. 2--No. 23,              June 9, 1898.             No. 83. With illustrations
          of flowers, fishes, frogs, birds, etc., set in the text.
          12mo, $1.25.

"It describes with artistic delicacy the transmission of that wonderful thing called life in
both the plant and animal existence. The difficult subject is treated with such intelligence
and charm of manner that children may read it with interest, and parents need have no fear
of its influence."--The Chicago Times.

"Something of flower life, something of fish life, of frogs, and of birds, and a chapter on
human life, form the subjects of this book,--all told in the graceful manner of a womanly woman,
whose love for nature has given her a keener insight into nature's secrets, and a greater ability
to impart those secrets to others with the ease of face-to-face talks than is vouchsafed to
many people."--The Boston Times.

          =SPECIAL--25 copies of this exquisite book at 75 cents each.=

          WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON, 5 West 18th Street.
                          New York

       *       *       *       *       *

          FOUR TRUE STORIES OF LIFE AND ADVENTURE. By Jessie
          R. Smith. New York: William Beverley Harison.
          Price 36 cents, postpaid.

"Four True Stories of Life and Adventure," by Jessie R. Smith. This is a book to be read by
children, not to them. A child during the years of seven and nine is usually hungering for
true stories, and some mothers and teachers try to meet the demand by reading and telling "true"
stories to them. This is well and good, but it is clear that if this inborn craving could be
met by books framed in language of such limited vocabulary and construction that so young a
child would constantly be invited to the story, how valuable it would be. This book is designated
to meet this end. Less than 750 different words are used in the entire series, and these, excepting
the necessary geographical names, are all in the commonest use among children. The stories
are of Columbus, Captain John Smith, Miles Standish, Benjamin Franklin. Mothers and teachers
with children of from seven to nine years of age will give this book a hearty welcome--the
teachers because the market supply is so painfully deficient in this line, and the mothers
because it will so admirably solve the oft-repeated query of "Mother, what can I do next?"
It is so well gotten out and still so cheap that it should have a large sale.--Mother's Journal,
March, 1898.   JUNE 9, 1898    Whole No. 83

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.
  LATEST NEWS                             774
  With the Editor                         713
  Letters                                 714
  New Books                               715
  American and Spanish Losses             717
  Declarations of Neutrality              718
  Second Call for Volunteers              719
  Damage to the Columbia                719
  Balloons for War Purposes               720
  Taking Photographs of Battles           720
  Use of Kites in War-time                721
  New Armor-plate Contracts               722
  Privateers for Spain                    723
  Hawaii                                  724
  News from Spain                         724
  Lieutenant Carranza in Trouble          725
  News from the Philippines               727
  Postal Service in War-time              730
  European Powers and the Philippines     731
  Cable-Cutting and International Law     732
  Riots in Italy                          733
  The Leiter Wheat Deal                   734
  News from West Africa                   735
  War News                                736
  LATEST NEWS                             738
  The Flag                                742

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: =With the Editor=]

We wish to call our subscribers' attention to our new binders for THE GREAT ROUND WORLD. During
the past year we have received many requests for missing numbers, also suggestions that some
sort of cover or holder should be supplied, in order that numbers might be kept together, constant
reference being made to back numbers, the loss of one causing much inconvenience. After giving
the matter careful study, we have at last succeeded in making a handy case, in which the numbers
as issued may be inserted. This case is strongly bound in cloth, with a handsome design on
back and sides; the copies of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD can be inserted without mutilating them
in any way, and be kept clean and in condition for binding.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letters

          EDITOR OF THE GREAT ROUND WORLD.

          I am very much interested in the war, and would
          like to do something for my country. Could you
          suggest something that a little girl could do?

          Respectfully yours,
                      ALMA D.

Other boys and girls are gathering illustrated papers, periodicals, and books to be forwarded
to the soldiers and sailors. You can help in this way.

          EDITOR OF THE GREAT ROUND WORLD.

          In your issue of April 21st, you speak of the
          Russian officer Milutine having said that no
          Christian had ever succeeded in entering and
          leaving Mecca before his doing so. Sir Richard
          Burton distinctly states that he was the first man
          ever to accomplish this feat, as you will see by
          his book. Who is correct?

          Very truly yours,
                  J. T.

If you read the account again, you will see that Milutine is quoted as having said that he
had heard that no Christian had previously gone to Mecca and returned safely. It is true that
Burton did precede Milutine. EDITOR.

       *       *       *       *       *

New Books

"Manipulation of the Microscope," Edward Bausch (Rochester: Bausch & Lomb Optical Co.). At
this season of the year, when so many of our readers are interested in the study of botany
and other nature work, the use of the microscope enters largely into their work--and yet how
few people really understand this most useful instrument. The writer of this admirable little
book very sensibly assumes that his readers are anxious to learn the subject from its simplest
form to the more complex details, and he has therefore made a thoroughly useful book. Few people
realize the delight of using a microscope intelligently, nor do they grasp the true value of
even the simple pocket forms of this invaluable little instrument. If they did properly appreciate
the microscope, every boy would carry a two or three loop lens, and find it as useful almost
as the indispensable jackknife. The wonders of field, forest, and seashore are not thoroughly
appreciated unless the microscope is used--intelligently.

       *       *       *       *       *

Current History

       *       *       *       *       *

In our last number we give a review of the first month of the war. In glancing over the news,
it is extremely interesting to contrast the losses of Spain with those of the United States.
In the campaign off Cuba, we have had less than thirty men killed and wounded, whereas the
Spaniards have lost several hundreds; they have had many of their fortifications destroyed,
and have suffered great damage in other ways--by the capture of vessels, etc. In the far East,
Spain's fleet was destroyed, and many men killed and wounded; against this was a loss on our
part of one man killed and six wounded, and approximately no damage to our vessels.

The escape of the Oregon is considered another victory for us, as during that trip of about
fifteen thousand miles she might easily have been intercepted and destroyed had she not been
splendidly handled. Her run of four thousand miles between San Francisco and Callao (cal-ye-ä-o)
is the longest ever made by a battle-ship without stop, and in the latter part of her trip,
on one long stretch, she averaged over fifteen knots, a wonderful speed at the end of a trip
of over ten thousand miles--for a vessel's bottom becomes very foul with barnacles, seaweed,
etc., which greatly retard its passage through the water.

It is reported that, while coaling at Rio, a number of dynamite-bombs were smuggled into the
coal, but fortunately they were discovered by the sailors.

[Footnote: Authority for pronunciation of proper names: Century Dictionary.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Action in reference to neutrality has been taken by Russia, Greece, Venezuela, the Netherlands,
and Canada. The declaration of neutrality by Venezuela is of special importance, as Spain's
fleet would have found Venezuelean ports of inestimable value as places of refuge and for the
purpose of coaling. Venezuela expresses her position in the one sentence: "The Republic will
observe the strictest neutrality during the contest." No statement is made, however, as to
what will be considered contraband.

The Dutch proclamation of neutrality, in addition to the usual forms, especially cautions the
citizens of the Netherlands against becoming connected in any way with privateering; and the
Dutch vessels are also required to respect the blockade; in reference to coal, the Dutch regulation
is that only enough shall be sold to permit Spanish or American vessels to reach the nearest
port of their country.

The Russian proclamation contains a statement to the effect that the Imperial Government, in
concert with the other powers, had endeavored to find a means which would prevent an armed
conflict between the two countries; that such friendly measures were without result, and that
the Imperial Government "witnesses with regret the armed conflict between two states to which
she is united by old friendship and deep sympathy; it is firmly resolved in regard to the two
belligerents that a perfect and impartial neutrality will be observed."

Greece has simply declared that the strictest neutrality will be maintained.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 25th of May, President McKinley issued a call for 75,000 additional volunteers; of the
previous volunteers called for, about 112,000 have been mustered into the army; with the addition
that is now called for, the army will number about 250,000; and it is expected that active
operations will be begun at once, and that Porto Rico as well as Cuba will be seized at the
earliest possible moment; it is expected that part of our fleet will proceed at once to San
Juan, Porto Rico, and destroy the fortifications there, so that our army can without serious
opposition land on the island.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cruiser Columbia, which was disabled in a collision off Long Island, is being rapidly repaired
in the Brooklyn Navy-Yard. If she had not been very strong there is little doubt but that the
Foscolia would have cut her in two; the frames of the vessel, however, are so well constructed
that these, with the protective deck, prevented more serious damage. Naval officers are very
much pleased to find how well the vessel withstood the collision; they say that if the Columbia
had been a ship like the large ocean liners, nothing would have prevented her sinking with
the ship that struck her. When the officer on the Columbia saw that a collision was inevitable,
he gave the order "Full speed ahead"; it is very fortunate that he did so, as otherwise the
Foscolia would have hit her amidships; and the damage must then have been very serious, as
the water compartments in that part of the vessel are large, and when filled might have caused
her to capsize. The damage proves to be much less severe than was at first thought; after two
or three weeks it is thought she will be on duty again.

This is not the first time that the Columbia has been in trouble of this kind; two years ago
she collided with the Wyanoke, a coasting steamer; in spite of the trying circumstances at
that time, not a man was lost on the sinking coaster, so perfect was the discipline on the
Columbia.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is reported that the balloons recently received from Paris will be sent forward with the
first expedition to Cuba; arrangements for equipping the balloon train are under charge of
Lieut. Joseph E. Maxfield of the Signal Service. It is reported that one of the French balloons
will be first given a careful test from the deck of one of the war-ships off Cuba. The necessary
plant for generating the gas is already in Tampa; the gas will be forwarded in steel tubes,
which will hold a large volume when the gas is compressed.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is now proposed to take the necessary apparatus to Cuba, and have pictures of the bombardment
of Havana and of other engagements made for reproduction with the cinematograph. Dr. D. S.
Elmendorf is now at Tampa, Fla., making elaborate preparations for taking these pictures. The
cinematograph is a wonderful invention. By a clever arrangement hundreds of photographs are
taken, one after the other, with marvellous rapidity; these pictures are printed on a long
strip, and made to pass through the magic lantern as rapidly as when the photographs were taken;
the result is a composite picture which, when thrown upon a screen, reproduces every motion.

Edison was the one who invented this system of taking in succession very rapidly a great number
of pictures of moving objects. We hope that Dr. Elmendorf will be successful, for we will then
be able to see these interesting scenes; and if by a clever use of the phonograph or graphophone
he can record the sound of the guns, we may not only see, but hear, the battles.

       *       *       *       *       *

In THE GREAT ROUND WORLD last year we described experiments that were being made with kites
by Mr. W. E. Eddy, of Bayonne, N. J., who has been largely instrumental in promoting interest
in scientific kite-flying. Kites have been made of such power as to carry a heavy cable from
one point to another over some obstruction, or to lift a man some distance from the ground
for the purpose of observation. It is now planned to make use of the kites for offensive and
defensive purposes in connection with the invasion of Cuba. These kites can be raised to an
enormous height and photographs taken of the country, or, if necessary, by a clever device
which slides on the string of the kite, dynamite can be carried to a point over the enemies'
camp or fortifications and dropped into them.

It is also believed that the kite will be of great value for signalling purposes, especially
at night, as it will be possible to hoist electric incandescent lamps to a great height above
the earth and signal by turning the light on or off in accordance with a settled code. Mr.
Eddy estimates that it will be possible to drop fifty pounds of dynamite at a time from a distance
a mile away; the plan is to send up these kites from within the lines of the attacking force
and drop the dynamite into the fortifications of Havana. The men who fly the kites can remain
out of sight of the forts; and the kite will be such a small mark and so high up in the air
as to be very difficult to hit with a rifle-ball.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a great deal of discussion in Congress, and many delays in finishing our war-ships because
of the price asked for armor by the large armor companies, it was decided that the maximum
rate--that is, the highest price--that the Government would pay should be $400 per ton; until
this change was made neither of the great armor-plate manufacturers would bid, and, as a result,
armor was not obtainable. May 24th, bids were opened for supplying the three battle-ships,
Illinois, Alabama, and Wisconsin, now being constructed by the Union Iron Works, Newport News.
About a year ago the Government advertised for bids for supplying this armor, but no bids were
received because Congress had made the limit of price too low. Bids opened on the 24th were
from two companies, the Bethlehem Iron Works and Carnegie & Co. It is evident that an arrangement
had been entered into between the two, as one company bid to supply the armor for the Alabama,
and the other for the Wisconsin, the bids in each case being the same--that is, at the maximum
price of $400 per ton.

The armor for the Alabama will cost $1,022,504; that for the Wisconsin, $1,023,504; the first
of this armor will be delivered in about seven months, and thereafter about 300 tons will be
delivered monthly. At this rate it will be about fifteen months before the last of the armor
is ready.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is reported that Spain is about to sanction the commission or fitting out of privateers
to prey upon our commerce. In the Spanish newspapers appear almost daily criticisms of our
cowardly methods of carrying on the war. At one time it is stated that our vessels have been
seen flying the Spanish flag in order that they may surprise some ship of theirs; at another
time our cowardly attack upon some fort in Cuba is mentioned, when we sneak up under cover
of darkness only to beat a hasty retreat when the first gun is fired.

In the face of such conduct, it is claimed by the Spaniards that we are entitled to no consideration,
and it is believed both here and abroad that all of this kind of absurd talk means that Spain
contemplates a resort to privateers to get even with us.

Privateers, in former years, when fitted out by Spain have acted so much like pirates that
they have been considered and treated as such by England and by other nations, and the whole
system has been so seriously condemned that it is believed that, should either Spain or this
country fit out privateers, other nations would immediately interfere and put a stop to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

There has been considerable discussion in reference to Hawaii; the question of annexation is
favored almost universally by our people and in Congress; in fact, the annexation of the island
is now considered not merely advisable, but absolutely necessary. In sending troops from this
country to the Philippine Islands we must stop on the way for supplies, and should Hawaii be
captured by the Spaniards or annexed by another power, it would prove a very serious matter
to us; it is to be hoped that the question of annexation will be settled at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very little news of interest is received from Spain. In the list of the new Spanish ministry,
published week before last, we included the name of Señor Leon y Castillo as Minister of Foreign
Affairs; Señor Castillo did not accept the office, which was then offered to Duke Almodovar
de Rio, who has accepted.

The duke said that he did not wish the office, but accepted it on patriotic grounds, "as every
Spaniard is bound to devote all his powers to the defence of his country." The duke is well
and favorably known in England, where he was educated, and it is considered that the choice
for this office is a good one.

The Spanish Minister of Finance, in discussing Spain's financial condition, recently said that
he considered it satisfactory, and that the payment of all expenses of the war is assured;
as a means of raising additional funds he proposes to convert the floating debt, now amounting
to about 500,000,000 pesetas, into treasury bonds of small denomination, and to extend the
Bank of Spain note issues. Spain may by this issue of additional paper money find herself in
as unfortunate a position as did Cuba when Weyler endeavored to force paper money upon the
people there. With an increase of twenty per cent. on taxes of all kinds, and with a paper
money of doubtful value, Spain will indeed be in a sorry predicament.

Later reports from Spain would indicate that a crisis is approaching; business is at a standstill,
and a famine imminent, as provisions are so high as to place them beyond the reach of the poorer
people. It is thought that if an encounter with our fleet ends in disaster to Admiral Cervera,
a revolution is inevitable. It is said that Emperor Francis Joseph of Austria has advised the
Queen to leave the country, but that she has expressed her determination to remain and face
the result.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Carranza, to whom we are indebted for the admirable explanation of why Spain should
not be held responsible for the Maine disaster, published in THE GREAT ROUND WORLD some weeks
ago, is having an unpleasant time in Canada. Together with several other Spanish officials
he has been carrying on an "information bureau" for the Spanish Government; by information
bureau we mean a system of receiving and forwarding reports to the Spanish Government in reference
to our fortifications, etc. The present trouble has arisen from the fact that a letter containing
important information has been mislaid; he accuses Joseph Kellert, a Montreal detective, and
two other persons of entering his room and stealing this letter. They are making such a fuss
over the matter that the letter must have been an exceedingly important one.

       *       *       *       *       *

A despatch has been received from Admiral Dewey, dated May 20th, addressed to the Secretary
of the Navy; he cables as follows:

"Situation is unchanged. Blockade is continued. There is a great scarcity of provisions in
Manila. The foreign subjects fear an outbreak of Spanish soldiers; arrangements have been made
for the transfer of these foreign subjects to Cavite if necessary. The rebel commander-in-chief,
Aguinaldo, who was brought here by the McCulloch, is reorganizing a force, and may render assistance
that will be valuable."

The first shipment of troops to the Philippine Islands started May 25th on the three transports,
City of Pekin, Australia, and City of Sydney. When these vessels left San Francisco, late in
the afternoon, the shores were lined with people, and there was great enthusiasm. It was expected
that the fleet would arrive at the Sandwich Islands by Tuesday, May 31st; it will proceed from
this port in company with the Charleston, and should arrive at Manila about June 20th. A detachment
of the United States Engineers was ordered from Willets Point, N. Y., to the Philippines, under
command of Captain Langfitt; Captain Langfitt is an expert in the matter of torpedoes and harbor
defences of this kind, and it is thought that his mission at the Philippines will be to fortify
the different harbors by planting mines, torpedoes, etc.

Now that the reinforcements are well on their way, there is no reason to feel any anxiety in
reference to any expedition which might be sent from Spain. The shortest route from Cadiz is,
of course, by way of the Suez Canal; the distance by this route is over 8,000 miles; from San
Francisco to Manila, by way of the Sandwich Islands, is but 7,000 miles; therefore we have
at least a week the start of any expedition which might leave Spain. The troops sent on the
three transports which sailed May 25th will be sufficient to garrison Corregidor Island; with
strong fortifications on this island at the entrance of Manila Bay, it is believed that we
can prevent the entrance of any fleet. The only fleet which it is possible for Spain to send
at this time is Admiral Camara's; in this there are but two armorclads, the Pelayo and Emperadar
Carlos V. Admiral Dewey would not consider them sufficiently formidable to give him any anxiety.

Unless we meet with misfortune or great reverses in dealing with the Spanish forces now at
the Philippines, there is little doubt but that they are ours by this time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that the Philippine Islands are to be kept by us, the previous regulations in reference
to mails have been changed. When war was declared the Post-Office Department shut off communication
with the Philippine Islands, as well as with other Spanish countries. A new order has been
issued, and mail may now be sent to the Philippine Islands by way of San Francisco. In times
of war this country permits soldiers to mail letters to their homes without prepaying postage;
this is a great advantage to them, as we can readily understand that while on a campaign post-offices
cannot be reached and postage stamps are not easy to get. The officers or men have simply to
write on the letters, "Soldier's letter," "Sailor's letter," "Marine's letter," and they will
be carried by post to their destination and postage collected there without extra charge. Under
ordinary circumstances letters will not be carried unless partly prepaid; and if foreign postage
is not fully prepaid a penalty in the shape of extra postage is added to the regular rate,
and collected upon delivery.

       *       *       *       *       *

European powers are watching with great interest our movements in the East. Admiral Dewey's
victory, it is considered, has put an end to Spanish sovereignty in the East. European governments
evidently expect the United States to keep the Philippines, and it is difficult to see any
other solution, as it will certainly not be advisable to return the islands to Spain, nor would
this be consistent with the "war for humanity's sake." Spain's cruelties in the Philippines
have been even more excessive than in Cuba, and we certainly should not again place the islands
in the hands of that cruel taskmaster, Spain. It has been suggested that we cede them to some
European power; the question is, Can we do this? These powers are so jealous of each other
that they will not stand quietly by and see any one of their number favored by a gift of such
importance; on the other hand, the presence of an American colony in Eastern Asia will be a
thorn in the side of the great powers; we have, therefore, to choose which horn of the dilemma
we shall accept. The final settlement of the matter will, no doubt, cause many new complications
and material changes in the traditional policy of our Government.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mysterious sailing of the steamship Adria from Key West, a week ago, has attracted a good
deal of comment; it is said that she had on board many miles of submarine cable, together with
the necessary appliances for grappling, splicing, and laying, and telegraphic instruments for
use on shore. It is believed that the purpose is to cut the cable off shore, splice a piece
to it, and carry it to some unfrequented spot and there establish a cable station; this would
enable our authorities to communicate quickly with Washington--when the invasion of Cuba takes
place, or to keep the insurgents advised as to our movements.

       *       *       *       *       *

A very interesting question of international law has been brought up by the cutting of the
cables by Admiral Dewey; it is claimed that by doing this he has established an international
precedent, for his cutting of the cable connecting a country at war with another country is
a forcible interference with communication which has not been practised in any previous war.

The question of cable-cutting has never come up before as a means of offensive warfare, as
it is only in recent years that there has been any extensive laying of cables. Dewey's example
has been followed by the blockading fleet off Cuba; this fact establishes beyond all peradventure
the position that this Government has assumed. The British Government evidently believes that
in the time of war the right to cut cables connecting the opposing nation with other countries
is one which may be assumed without violation of international law. In a speech on this matter,
Mr. Balfour, First Lord of the Treasury, quoting in Parliament a few days ago an agreement
made in Paris in 1884, in reference to the protection of cables by different nations, said:
"By Article XV. of this convention, in time of war a belligerent signatory to the convention
(that is, a county signing this agreement) is as free to act with respect to submarine cables
as if the convention did not exist. I am not prepared, therefore, to say that a belligerent,
on the ground of military exigency, would under no circumstances be justified in interfering
with cables between the territory of the opposing power and any other part of the world."

Our State Department considers that this statement on the part of Great Britain commits that
country to the policy regarding cables which we have recently put into practice; her approval
of our action virtually establishes this right as a principle of international law.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very serious trouble is anticipated in Italy because of the hopeless poverty of much of the
peasantry, and the apparent inefficiency of the present system of government. The Italian peasant
barely succeeds under the most advantageous circumstances in obtaining food enough for himself
and family; consequently every change in the price of bread is a serious matter to him; under
the present Government the taxes have become heavier, and this is sure at no distant date to
bring about a crisis; that this crisis is near is shown by the recent bread riots. The only
hope of averting trouble is a change in the policy of the Italian Government.

Many people in Europe are asking why the price of wheat continues to advance, as there is apparently
no reason, for the Spanish-American war has created no increased demand, nor has it seriously
interfered with the shipment of grain. The increase in price is accounted for, by those who
are familiar with these subjects, on the ground that there seems to be a general conspiracy
to hold back supplies from Europe in the hope of obtaining higher prices, and in consequence
scarcity is created in certain markets, thus causing the rise in price both there and elsewhere,
and with each rise in price comes additional reason for the holding back of supplies on the
part of the speculators who are manipulating the market.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is rather interesting to turn from the account of the riots in Italy to a brief history
of Joseph Leiter's famous wheat deal. This wheat deal, which has just been closed, is the most
remarkable that has ever been known in the history of the grain markets. Leiter has not only
made himself rich, but has added to the wealth of the farmers in the West enormously. Every
effort on the part of other speculators to force Leiter to the wall has been unsuccessful.
Last fall when he was buying, they turned over enormous quantities of wheat, but he seemed
to have untold millions at his command, for he met every offer with cash, and demonstrated
that he had more money if they could furnish more wheat: the result was that wheat went up,
up, up, until it reached nearly $2 a bushel, and Leiter has made, it is estimated, over $4,000,000,
or nearly $500 an hour since April of last year.

