"I could understand an aristocracy of brains, in a land like America," I went on, quite fiercely,
"but it's no good breaking off from the old country at all if you're to hamper yourselves with
anything else. Now if I hadn't heard Mrs. Stuyvesant-Knox and Mrs. Van der Windt talking, I
should have supposed that in America a man like Mr. Brett, for instance, could be received
anywhere. As it is, I suppose--no, nobody could despise him. For myself, I'm proud to know
such a brave man. But--but of course we're not likely to meet him again, are we?"

"In Society?" laughed Sally. "Poor fellow, it doesn't look much like it now, does it? Though
I believe he's a man in a thousand, and worth six of any of those that Cousin Katherine will
let you know--counting Potter, though he is my relative."

"It seems a pity," I said, with a sigh for the mistakes of the whole world--or something.

"What's a pity?"

"Oh, I hardly know. Everything. Isn't it?"

"Yes. And I'm sure that's what our poor, handsome friend is thinking."

"Do you suppose he--minds?"

"I reckon he would like to go on being acquainted with you, Betty, and have the chances of
other men. You're not an unattractive girl, you know--or maybe you don't know. And he's human.
I have a sort of idea he'll try and make some change in his way of life, so that it may be
possible to meet you again."

When Sally said this, I had the oddest sensation, like a prickling in all my veins. I longed
to ask her if she were joking, or if she really did think that Jim Brett was enough interested
in me to take so much trouble. But the words came only as far as the tip of my tongue, and
stuck to it as if they had been glued there.

VII

ABOUT SKY-SCRAPERS AND BEAUTIFUL LADIES

In the afternoon Mrs. Ess Kay and I in our thinnest muslins went out in the motor. We whizzed
up Fifth Avenue for several "blocks" (as she called them), turned into an expensive-looking
side street and stopped before one of the most enormous buildings I ever saw in my life. It
seemed only half finished, for the steel columns of its skeleton were still visible around
the ground floor and the street before it was still cluttered with bricks and boards and rubbish.
In the hallway men were working like active animals in an immense cage. Suddenly from amongst
them I saw emerge a beautifully dressed little girl foaming with lace frills, led by a trained
nurse in a grey and white uniform. They were actually being let out of the lift, which had
swooped down with appalling swiftness, by a man in livery.

"Good Heavens," I exclaimed, "what a queer place for a child and its nurse to be in."

"My dear girl, they live there," said Mrs. Ess Kay rather scornfully. "That is Mrs. Harvey
Richmount Taylour's little Rosemary with her nurse."

"People live on top of those poles like Jack in a beanstalk!" I exclaimed. "How appalling."

As I looked through the hallway up sprang the lift once more, fierce and swift as one of the
rockets which I used as a child to be afraid might strike the angels. A minute of suspense
and it swooped down again with two girls in it. I felt as if it were a thing I oughtn't to
be seeing somehow; it was so much like spying on the digestive apparatus of a skeleton.

"You see," explained Mrs. Ess Kay, "the Taylours and other people were frightfully anxious
to get in. The rest of the building will be finished soon, and this is going to be one of the
swellest apartment houses in New York."

"This an apartment house!" cried I, thinking of the dull streets in London, where almost every
door has "Apartments" printed over it in gilt letters, or else hanging crooked and dejected
on a card. "But, oh--perhaps you mean it's flats."

"For goodness sake, don't say 'flats' to Margaret Taylour," exclaimed Mrs. Ess Kay, marshalling
me into the mammoth skeleton. "Over here, only common people live in flats; our sort have 'apartments.'"

"It's just the other way round with us," I explained. "Those who have flats would be furious
if you said they lived in apartments."

"You English are so quaint in some ways," remarked Mrs. Ess Kay, and though I didn't answer,
I was surprised. It's all well enough for us to think Americans odd, and we are accustomed
to that, for everybody says they are; but that they should think our ways comic does seem extraordinary,
almost improper.

By this time we were in the lift, which shut upon us with a vicious snap, and then tossed us
up towards the roof of the world. I do hope one doesn't experience the same sensation in dying;
though in that case it would be worse going down than up.

Before I had time to do more than gasp, we were at the top; and as we waited for an instant
outside Mrs. Harvey Richmount Taylour's door, I should have liked to pinch my cheeks lest my
fright had left me pale.

Vic has a friend who lives in a flat near the Park for the Season, and once I was taken there.
I thought it quite beautiful, but though the friend's a Countess and very rich, the flat is
poor compared with this topheavy nest of Mrs. Taylour's.

In a white drawing-room where the only spots of colour were the roses--masses of pink roses
in gold bowls--a Madonna-like being was reclining in a green and white billow of a lace tea
gown, on a white sofa. She held out both hands to Mrs. Ess Kay, and looked at me, apologising
for not getting up.

When you come to examine her, the only thing really Madonna-like about Mrs. Harvey Richmount
Taylour is her way of doing her hair. It's parted in the middle, and folds softly down in brown
wings on either side of rather a high forehead, white enough to match her drawing-room. She
has gently curved eyebrows, too; but under them her dark eyes are as bright and sharp as a
fox-terrier's. She has pale skin, red lips, and thin features, with a stick-out chin, cut on
the same pattern as Mrs. Ess Kay's though it isn't as square yet, because she is years younger--perhaps
not more than twenty-eight.

Mrs. Ess Kay introduced us, in a more precise way than we have at home, and Mrs. Taylour said
that she was very happy to meet me, which I should have thought particularly kind, if I hadn't
found out that it's a sort of formula which Americans think it polite to use.

She talked to me a good deal, and wanted to know how I liked America, of course; I was sure
she would do that.

Then Mrs. Ess Kay explained that I was interested in her apartment being up so high, and thought
her plucky to live in it before the house was finished. This amused Mrs. Taylour very much.

"We are just thankful to be in it," she said. "I was tired out with housekeeping, the servant
question is too awful."

"I see you've a trained nurse-maid for Rosemary," said Mrs. Ess Kay. "We met them going out."

"Isn't Rosemary a pet?" Mrs. Taylour asked me, as if she were speaking of somebody else's little
girl.

"Sweet," I said. "Has she been ill?"

"No. Do you think she looks delicate?"

"It was the hospital nurse----" I began; but Mrs. Taylour laughed.

"Oh, I suppose that would strike you as funny. But we often have them for our children. We
poor New York women have so much to do socially, we have to be relieved of all feeling of responsibility,
if we don't want to come down with nervous prostration. I shall hang onto this same nurse for
years if she'll stay; she's so good, and only ten dollars a week. When Rosemary grows up and
comes out, she will be her maid, you know, Lady Betty. Do you ever have trained nurse-maids
in England?"

"No," I said. "Fancy!"

"Oh, it's a splendid thing for a girl--nothing like it. You see the woman looks after her like
a maid and a nurse both; makes sure her bath's the right temperature, takes care of her if
she gets the grippe; sits up and gives her beef tea or chocolate after balls, massages her,
and things like that. I used to have one myself, but a woman after she's married is different
from a Bud. She must have a French woman for her hair if she respects herself."

I said meekly that I supposed so; and then Mrs. Taylour left me to myself for a few minutes,
while she talked to Mrs. Ess Kay. They compared notes about appendicitis, which they called
the fashionable complaint, and Mrs. Taylour suddenly exclaimed:

"Oh, my dear, I have had just the smartest idea. As soon as Doctor Pearson will let me go to
Blue Bay I tell you I mean to wake them up there. What I'll do, is to have an appendicitis
lunch. It'll be rather conducive, won't it?"

"You are the most original thing!" exclaimed Mrs. Ess Kay. "How are you going to manage?"

"Oh, nobody shall be invited except those who have had it; and the great feature will be the
decorations; operating instruments, you know, and hospital nurses, and--oh, I don't know what
all yet, but I'm thinking it out. It was Cora Pitchley's Cat Lunch that put it in my head."
She turned to me. "In America we give Women's lunches," she said. "Only women are asked, or
a Cat Lunch couldn't be worked. Is it so with you, too?"

"I'm afraid our women would think it a bore if there were no men," I answered. "Anyway, there
always are some, I believe. I'm not out yet. Do tell about the Cat Lunch."

"Oh, it was only a pretty smart trick of my friend, Mrs. Pitchley's. She was a rich young widow
from the West, with millions, and very pretty and lively, so some of the old cats snubbed her
and tried to keep her out of New York society, when I was introducing her around. But she got
her foot in at last, so tight they couldn't help themselves, for the Van Tortens took her up,
and she was made. So what did she do but give a big lunch, inviting all the women who had been
the meanest to her, and not another soul. The whole table decoration consisted of cats; vases
made of cats; flower-arrangements shaped like cats; and a little gold cat with emerald eyes
for each woman to take away with her, so she wouldn't forget the lunch in a hurry. And would
you believe it, not one of them saw the joke till Smart Sayings got hold of it, and published
an account of the function next week."

"What did the women do?" I asked.

"Nothing, but feel cattier than before. She's richer than ever now, for she's married a man
worth twenty millions, and the first thing he did was to give orders to Céleste, her dressmaker,
to turn out two new dresses for his wife, every week of the year without fail, not one of them
to cost less than two hundred and fifty dollars. It was such a strain on Céleste, thinking
of new ideas, that she had to give it up after the first year, though it nearly broke her heart."

"I should have thought it would be a strain having the dresses to wear," said I. "Fancy getting
passionately attached to one frock, but never being able to wear it more than once or twice,
on account of your duty to the new ones always coming towards you in a long, relentless procession,
down the years. I should hate it."

"I wouldn't," said Mrs. Taylour. "I can't have too many new things, and I always change each
scrap of furniture and decoration in my own rooms every year, so that Mr. Taylour won't get
tired of them. He's such a nervous man. But you'll meet Cora Pitchley at Newport. Her house
is there. She's a type of an American woman, just as bright as she can be. Her second husband
was a wholesale dry goods man years ago, but most people have forgotten that, now he's worth
his millions, and he's got the most gorgeous place, quite like one of your old castles. The
worst of it is, his mother lives with them, and when she was showing the bride--Cora--over
the house (which was decorated pretty weirdly for the first wife,) the old lady kept explaining:
'This is the Louis Seize room; this is the Queen Anne room.' Cora just looked at the things,
and said: 'What makes you think so?' Smart, wasn't it? But Cora's changed everything inside
the house now. She loves change. She's even changed her birthday, so as to have it in leap
year; and as for her mind, she changes it entirely at least six times a day; says that's why
women have nicer minds than men; they change them oftener. But I've gossiped enough about a
person you don't know, Lady Betty. Let's talk about England. I run over to Paris for a month
or two most years, but I've only been twice to England. I did all the sights, though, didn't
miss anything. I gave four days to London alone. Candidly, I don't think your women dress nearly
as well as we do, or hold themselves as well, but perhaps you're more feminine looking, take
you all in all. I don't mean anything personal, of course. But I do think your men are lovely.
I met a perfectly charming Member of Parliament, and he invited me to tea on the terrace. Such
strawberries and cream. But I'm afraid I hurt his feelings. I said I couldn't help thinking
'House of Commons' a most insulting name, and if we called our Senate anything like that we
couldn't get an American man who respected himself to go into it. But English people are so
queer. They don't seem to mind admitting that there is a class above theirs."

"Betty doesn't need to know anything about that," said Mrs. Ess Kay. "She is on the highest
pinnacle."

"Oh, dear no," said I. "There are the Royalties."

"Don't you think you are just as good?" asked Mrs. Taylour.

"I never thought about it in that way," I answered, stupidly. For of course I hadn't.

"Surely you don't bob to them?"

"Indeed we do," I protested.

"Well then, I wouldn't," said Mrs. Taylour, firmly. "I'd have my head cut off first, especially
before I'd curtsey to a Man."

Quite a colour flew into her face as she asserted her independence, and Mrs. Ess Kay must have
seen that the invalid was getting excited, for she rose quickly to go.

"Come, Betty," said she, and I came.

The lift plunged us down through the inner workings of the skeleton. I had the sensation that
it was dropping away from under my feet, and that as I dangled above it like a wobbly little
balloon my head had been left behind somewhere near the top. But I didn't leave my heart behind
in Mrs. Taylour's flat.

VIII

ABOUT NEWPORT AND GORGEOUSNESS

I was anxious to travel in an American train, so Mrs. Ess Kay said we might go by rail to Newport,
instead of by boat as she had intended.

I know it was very wrong in principle, but when we got to the Grand Central Station, (or Depot,
as perhaps I ought to call it,) I did wish that slavery existed again, so that I could have
bought two or three of those delightful café-au-lait-coloured porters in grey livery and red
caps. There were several I would have given anything to have to take home with me, and make
pets of; but I suppose even if they had been for sale, they would have come too expensive and
I should have had to give them up; for their eyes alone, to say nothing of their pleasant white
grins, would have been worth pounds and pounds. As for their voices, they were the sweetest
I'd heard in America, soft, and a little throaty, with a peculiar quality, quite different
from the voice of a person who hasn't been dipped in café au lait. With their vivid red caps,
their brilliant eyes, and their lightning-flash smiles, they looked to me more like great wonderful,
tropical birds than human beings, and they seemed so honey-luscious in their good nature that
I'm sure all the things that serious and learned people say in England about the "dangers of
the increasing coloured population in America" must be nonsense. Serious and learned people
do make such mistakes, through never seeing the fun in anything; and every few years they find
out that they have been quite wrong in what they have taught with so much trouble, about comets
and microbes and men, and other progressive things.

We had a number of these tropical birds that have been tamed to serve the railway, to help
us with our bags and things getting into the train, although there were Louise and a couple
of Mrs. Ess Kay's footmen as well. I looked at their brown hands, and they were quite pink
inside, as pink as mine. I don't know why this gave me a shock, but it did. Perhaps one had
the feeling that the nice creatures were only painted to play their parts, or that their white
souls--just like ours--were striking through their skins.

It was a beautiful train. Even the engine was different from our kind, much fiercer, and reared
its head higher, like a wild stag compared to a stout but reliable ox. Our carriage had no
compartments in it, but was just one long wide, moving corridor, all plate glass windows and
mirrors, and painted panels, and velvet arm chairs dotted about, rather like a hotel drawing-room
on wheels.

There were a good many people in it when we got in, which annoyed Mrs. Ess Kay so much that
she wished she had borrowed a private car from a friend who would have loved lending it. But
I was glad she hadn't, for the people were part of the fun. Mrs. Ess Kay was sure they were
nobodies, because she didn't happen to know any of their faces; but perhaps they were thinking
the same thing about her.

Anyway, they were mostly women and all pretty and perfectly dressed, as even quite common people
appear to be in America. I haven't caught sight of a dowdy woman since I came. None of their
frocks hitch up in front and dip down behind, as you see people's doing if you are taken to
a shop in Oxford Street or even sometimes in Bond Street; and their belts always point beautifully
down at the waist, although it isn't the Season in New York.

The train was a fast one, and simply hurled itself and us through space, as if we had got onto
the tail of a comet by mistake; but it hardly waggled at all, so that we could have studied
the scenery nicely if we had been able to see it behind the advertisements.

Passing the outskirts of New York, it seemed as if every villa, even the quite smart ones,
did their own washing. The gardens--which Sally told me to call back yards--were just as full
of clean clothes as the meadows were of advertisement hoardings, and I rather wondered why
some enterprising agents didn't go round and offer the people big prices for painting Uneeda
Biscuit on their petticoats and shirts.

We tore through such charming places with fascinating houses built of wood, among parks of
feathery green trees, that I was sure Newport could be no prettier; but Mrs. Ess Kay spoiled
the most picturesque one for me by saying that it was practically settled by retired butchers
and tailors. According to Mrs. Ess Kay and her brother, all you have to do to be sure of being
rich in America, is to decide to be either a tailor or a butcher, so it seems quite simple,
and I'm surprised that everybody doesn't do it. Only if you do, it appears there is no use
in your going to Newport until you've lived it down; which, of course, must be a drawback.

Just as I had got rather giddy from looking out of the window, a boy (exactly like the boys
in melodrama who begin by selling papers and end by saving the heroine from the villain) came
into the car, piled up to his head with novels and magazines. He scattered a lot over us, like
manna, without asking us to pay, but just as I had got passionately interested in a short story
he came back and began to gather everything up. Seeing that I clung to my lot, Potter bought
them all for me, before I could stop him.

