  Claudite jam Parcae nimium reserata sepulchra;
  Claudite, plus justo, jam domus ista patet!

  Ah! shut these yawning Tombs, ye sister Fates!
  Too long unclos'd have stood those dreary Gates!

What the author said of the monument, you will be tempted to say of this letter, which I shall
therefore close in the old stile, assuring you that I ever am,--Yours most affectionately.

LETTER XXXI

NICE, March 5, 1765

DEAR SIR,--In my last I gave you my opinion freely of the modern palaces of Italy. I shall
now hazard my thoughts upon the gardens of this country, which the inhabitants extol with all
the hyperboles of admiration and applause. I must acknowledge however, I have not seen the
famous villas at Frascati and Tivoli, which are celebrated for their gardens and waterworks.
I intended to visit these places; but was prevented by an unexpected change of weather, which
deterred me from going to the country. On the last day of September the mountains of Palestrina
were covered with snow; and the air became so cold at Rome, that I was forced to put on my
winter cloaths. This objection continued, till I found it necessary to set out on my return
to Florence. But I have seen the gardens of the Poggio Imperiale, and the Palazzo de Pitti
at Florence, and those of the Vatican, of the pope's palace on Monte Cavallo, of the Villa
Ludovisia, Medicea, and Pinciana, at Rome; so that I think I have some right to judge of the
Italian taste in gardening. Among those I have mentioned, that of the Villa Pinciana, is the
most remarkable, and the most extensive, including a space of three miles in circuit, hard
by the walls of Rome, containing a variety of situations high and low, which favour all the
natural embellishments one would expect to meet with in a garden, and exhibit a diversity of
noble views of the city and adjacent country.

In a fine extensive garden or park, an Englishman expects to see a number of groves and glades,
intermixed with an agreeable negligence, which seems to be the effect of nature and accident.
He looks for shady walks encrusted with gravel; for open lawns covered with verdure as smooth
as velvet, but much more lively and agreeable; for ponds, canals, basins, cascades, and running
streams of water; for clumps of trees, woods, and wildernesses, cut into delightful alleys,
perfumed with honeysuckle and sweet-briar, and resounding with the mingled melody of all the
singing birds of heaven: he looks for plats of flowers in different parts to refresh the sense,
and please the fancy; for arbours, grottos, hermitages, temples, and alcoves, to shelter him
from the sun, and afford him means of contemplation and repose; and he expects to find the
hedges, groves, and walks, and lawns kept with the utmost order and propriety. He who loves
the beauties of simple nature, and the charms of neatness will seek for them in vain amidst
the groves of Italy. In the garden of the Villa Pinciana, there is a plantation of four hundred
pines, which the Italians view with rapture and admiration: there is likewise a long walk,
of trees extending from the garden-gate to the palace; and plenty of shade, with alleys and
hedges in different parts of the ground: but the groves are neglected; the walks are laid with
nothing but common mould or sand, black and dusty; the hedges are tall, thin and shabby; the
trees stunted; the open ground, brown and parched, has scarce any appearance of verdure. The
flat, regular alleys of evergreens are cut into fantastic figures; the flower gardens embellished
with thin cyphers and flourished figures in box, while the flowers grow in rows of earthen-pots,
and the ground appears as dusky as if it was covered with the cinders of a blacksmith's forge.
The water, of which there is great plenty, instead of being collected in large pieces, or conveyed
in little rivulets and streams to refresh the thirsty soil, or managed so as to form agreeable
cascades, is squirted from fountains in different parts of the garden, through tubes little
bigger than common glyster-pipes. It must be owned indeed that the fountains have their merit
in the way of sculpture and architecture; and that here is a great number of statues which
merit attention: but they serve only to encumber the ground, and destroy that effect of rural
simplicity, which our gardens are designed to produce. In a word, here we see a variety of
walks and groves and fountains, a wood of four hundred pines, a paddock with a few meagre deer,
a flower-garden, an aviary, a grotto, and a fish-pond; and in spite of all these particulars,
it is, in my opinion, a very contemptible garden, when compared to that of Stowe in Buckinghamshire,
or even to those of Kensington and Richmond. The Italians understand, because they study, the
excellencies of art; but they have no idea of the beauties of nature. This Villa Pinciana,
which belongs to the Borghese family, would make a complete academy for painting and sculpture,
especially for the study of antient marbles; for, exclusive of the statues and busts in the
garden, and the vast collection in the different apartments, almost the whole outside of the
house is covered with curious pieces in basso and alto relievo. The most masterly is that of
Curtius on horseback, leaping into the gulph or opening of the earth, which is said to have
closed on receiving this sacrifice. Among the exhibitions of art within the house, I was much
struck with a Bacchus, and the death of Meleager, represented on an antient sepulchre. There
is also an admirable statue of Silenus, with the infant Bacchus in his arms; a most beautiful
gladiator; a curious Moor of black marble, with a shirt of white alabaster; a finely proportioned
bull of black marble also, standing upon a table of alabaster; a black gipsey with a head,
hands, and feet of brass; and the famous hermaphrodite, which vies with that of Florence: though
the most curious circumstance of this article, is the mattrass executed and placed by Bernini,
with such art and dexterity, that to the view, it rivals the softness of wool, and seems to
retain the marks of pressure, according to the figure of the superincumbent statue. Let us
likewise own, for the honour of the moderns, that the same artist has produced two fine statues,
which we find among the ornaments of this villa, namely, a David with his sling in the attitude
of throwing the stone at the giant Goliah; and a Daphne changing into laurel at the approach
of Apollo. On the base of this figure, are the two following elegant lines, written by pope
Urban VIII. in his younger years.

  Quisquis amans sequitur fugitivae gaudia formae,
  Fronde manus implet, baccas vel carpit amaras.

  Who pants for fleeting Beauty, vain pursuit!
  Shall barren Leaves obtain, or bitter fruit.

I ought not to forget two exquisite antique statues of Venus, the weeping slave, and the youth
pulling a thorn out of his foot.

I do not pretend to give a methodical detail of the curiosities of Rome: they have been already
described by different authors, who were much better qualified than I am for the talk: but
you shall have what observations I made on the most remarkable objects, without method, just
as they occur to my remembrance; and I protest the remarks are all my own: so that if they
deserve any commendation, I claim all the merit; and if they are impertinent, I must be contented
to bear all the blame.

