6. It belongs to the State to punish political sin, or crime, and to God to punish theological
sin, which is sin properly so called, a breach of the Eternal Law. The man who has burnt his
neighbour's house down, though he has compensated the individual owner, may yet be punished
by the State. The owner, acting in his capacity as citizen, even when he has been compensated
as an individual, may still hand him over to the State for punishment. The arson was a violation,
not only of commutative, but of legal justice (c. v., s. ix., nn. 3, 6, pp. 103, 106), a disturbance
of the public peace and social order, an outrage upon the majesty of the law. For this he may
be punished by the State, which is the guardian of all these things, and which has jurisdiction
over him to make laws for him, and to enforce their sanction against him. Civil punishment,
besides being deterrent, is retributive for the breach of social order. It is the vengeance
of the commonwealth upon the disturber of the public peace. Whether the State can punish on
pure grounds of retribution, away from all hope or need of deterring possible imitators of
the crime, is a question irrelevant to our present enquiry. Probably a negative answer should
be returned.

7. We come now to the punishment of sin by God, the Living Reasonableness, the Head of the
Commonwealth of Creation, the Legislator of the Eternal Law, the Fountain of all Jurisdiction,
Him in whose hands rests the plenitude of the power to punish. An evil deed may be no wrong
to any individual man, no crime against the State, but it must ever be an offence against God.
It is a departure from the order of man's progress as a reasonable being (c. v., s. iii., n.
3, p. 74: c. vi., s. i., nn. 1-5, p. 109), which is founded on the nature of God Himself (c.
vi., s. i., n. 7, p. 113), of which order God is the official guardian (c. vi., s. ii., nn.
8-10, p. 119), and which is enjoined by God's Eternal Law. (c. vii., n. 3, p. 129.) This law
extends to all creation, rational and irrational, animate and inanimate. It bids every creature
work according to his or its own nature and circumstances. Given to irrational beings, the
law is simply irresistible and unfailing: such are the physical laws of nature, so many various
emanations of the one Eternal Law. Given to rational creatures, the law may be resisted and
broken: sin is the one thing in the universe that does break it. (c. vii., nn. 5-7, p. 130.)
A man may act in disregard of the Eternal Law on one or other of its physical sides, and so
much the worse for him, though he has not broken the law, but merely ignored its operation,
as when one eats what is unwholesome. Much more shall he suffer for having broken the law,
in the only possible way that it can be broken, by sin. This peculiar violation draws after
it a peculiar consequence of suffering, penal and retributive. If a man gets typhoid fever
in his house, we sometimes say it is a punishment on him for neglecting his drains, even when
the neglect was a mere piece of ignorance or inadvertence. It is an evil consequence certainly,--the
law, which he thought not of, working itself out in the form of disease. But it is not properly
punishment: no natural law has been really broken: there has been no guilt, and the suffering
is not retributive and compensatory. It does not go to restore the balance of the neglect.
It is a lamentable consequence, not a repayment. As, when man wrongs his fellow-man, he makes
with him an involuntary contract (c. v., s. ix., n. 6, p. 106), to restore what he takes away:
so in sinning against God, man makes another involuntary contract, to pay back in suffering
against his will what he unduly takes in doing his own will against the will of the Legislator.
As St. Augustine says of Judas (Serm. 125, n. 5): "He did what he liked, but he suffered what
he liked not. In his doing what he liked, his sin is found: in his suffering what he liked
not, God's ordinance is praised." Thus it is impossible for the Eternal Law, which bears down
all so irresistibly in irrational nature, finally to fail of its effect even upon the most
headstrong and contumacious of rational creatures; but, as St. Thomas says (1a 2a, q. 93, art.
6, in corp.), "The defect of doing is made up by suffering, inasmuch as they suffer what the
Eternal Law prescribes for them to the extent to which they fail to do what accords with the
Eternal Law." And St. Anselm (Cur Deus homo, nn. 14, 15): "God cannot possibly lose His honour:
for either the sinner spontaneously pays what he owes, or God exacts it of him against his
will. Thus if a man chooses to fly from under the will of God commanding, he falls under the
same will punishing." Punishment is called by Hegel, "the other half of sin." Lastly, they
are God's own spoken words (Deut. xxxii. 35): "Vengeance is Mine, I will repay."

Readings.--St. Thos., Cont. Gent., iii. 140, n. 5, Amplius; ib., iii., 144, nn. 8, Per hoc,
and 9, Est autem.

For Plato's views on punishment see Protag. 324 A, B; Gorgias, 525; Rep. 380 B, 615; Phaedo,
113 E; Laws, 854 D; 862 D, E; 934 A; 957 E. Plato recognizes only the medicinal and the deterrent
functions of punishment, and ignores the retributive. This is not to be wondered at in one
who wrote: "No one is wicked voluntarily; but it is an evil habit of body and a faulty education
that is the cause of every case of wickedness" (Timaeus, 86 E; cf. Laws, 731 C, D), which error
receives a masterly confutation in Aristotle, Ethics, III, v.

CHAPTER X.

OF UTILITARIANISM.

1. Though the name utilitarian is an English growth of this century, the philosophy so called
probably takes its origin from the days when man first began to speculate on moral matters.
Bentham and the two Mills, Austin, and George Grote, have repeated in England the substance
of what Protagoras and Epicurus taught in Greece, two thousand years before. It is the system
of Ethics to which all must incline, who ignore the spiritual side of man's nature and his
hopes of a better world. It is a morality of the earth, earthy.

2. Utilitarianism has not been formulated like the Athanasian Creed. It is impossible to state
it and combat it in a form to which all Utilitarians will subscribe. Indeed, it is an amiable
weakness of theirs, when confronted with the grosser consequences that flow from their theories,
to run off to some explanation, true enough, but quite out of keeping with the primary tenets
of their school. We will take what may be called a "mean reading" of the indications which
various Utilitarian thinkers afford of their mind and philosophy. These authorities, then,
teach two main heads of doctrine:--

(1) That the last end and final good of man lies in this world, and consists in the greatest
happiness of the greatest number of mankind, happiness being taken to mean pleasure as well
of the senses as of the understanding, such pleasure as can be had in this world, along with
immunity from pain. (Mill's Utilitarianism, 2nd Ed., pp. 9, seq.)

(2) That human acts are right or wrong, according as they are useful or hurtful, that is, according
as their consequences make for or against the above-mentioned end of social happiness.

3. Consequences, as Utilitarians very properly point out, are either general or particular.
They add that, in pronouncing an action to be good or evil according to its consequences, they
mean the general and not the particular consequences. In other words, they bid us consider,
not the immediate results of this action, but what would be the result to society, if this
sort of action were generally allowed. This point is well put by Paley (Moral Philosophy, bk.
ii., c. vii.: all three chapters, vi., vii., viii., should be read, as the best explanation
of the Principle of General Consequences):

"You cannot permit one action and forbid another, without showing a difference between them.
Consequently the same sort of actions must be generally permitted or generally forbidden. Where,
therefore, the general permission of them would be pernicious, it becomes necessary to lay
down and support the rule which generally forbids them.... The assassin knocked the rich villain
on the head, because he thought him better out of the way than in it. If you allow this excuse
in the present instance, you must allow it to all who act in the same manner, and from the
same motive; that is, you must allow every man to kill any one he meets, whom he thinks noxious
or useless: ... a disposition of affairs which would soon fill the world with misery and confusion,
and ere long put an end to human society."

My contention is, not with the Principle of General Consequences, which has a certain value
in Ethics, and is used by many writers other than Utilitarian, but with the two stated above,
n. 2, which are called the Greatest Happiness Principle and the Principle of Utility.

4. Against the Greatest Happiness Principle I have these complaints:

(1) Utilitarians from Paley to John Stuart Mill aver that their teaching is no bar to any man
hoping for and striving after the happiness of the world to come. They say that such happiness
cannot be better attained than by making it your principal aim to improve all temporal goods
and dissipate all temporal evil. Their maxim in fact is: "Take care of the things of earth,
and the things of heaven will take care of themselves." (St. Luke viii. 14.)

(2) It will be said that these thorns grow of selfishness, and that these cares are the cares
of individual interest, whereas the Utilitarian's delight and glory is to live, not for himself,
but for the commonwealth. But how can a man, who takes pleasure to be his highest good and
happiness, live otherwise than for himself? Here we come upon the unobserved fault and flaw,
which entirely vitiates the Utilitarian structure. It is an union of two opposite and incompatible
elements. An old poet has said:

  Vinegar and oil in one same vessel pour,
  They stand apart, unfriendly, all the more.

(Aeschylus, Agam., 330, 331.)

Utilitarianism consists of a still more unfriendly and unwholesome mixture of two elements,
both of them bad, and unable to stand together, Hedonism and Altruism. Hedonism is the doctrine
that the main object and end of life is pleasure: which is the position laid down in so many
words by Mill (1. c.), that "actions are right in proportion as they tend to promote happiness;"
and "by happiness is intended pleasure and the absence of pain." If Hedonism were sound doctrine,
the Pleasant and the Good would be identical, and the most pleasant pleasure would ever be
the best pleasure. That would take away all distinction of kind or quality among pleasures,
and differentiate them only by intensity and duration. This was Paley's doctrine, a fundamental
point of Hedonism, and therefore also of the Utilitarian philosophy. John Mill, very honourably
to himself, but very fatally to the system that he was writing to defend, parted company with
Paley. We have argued against Paley (c. iv., s. iii., nn. 3-5, p. 55), that there is a better
and a worse in pleasures, quite distinct from the more or less pleasurable, even if that more
be taken in the long run in this world.

Again it may be considered that pleasure, even the best and highest, is a sort of efflorescence
from activity, and is for activity, not activity for it; and better is the activity, whatever
it be, than the pleasure which comes thereof; wherefore no pleasure, as pleasure, can be the
highest good and happiness of man.

Hedonism then is an error. But errors may be opposed to one another as well as to the truth.
Hedonism is opposed to Altruism in this way. A man may take pleasure in seeing other people
enjoy themselves. Nothing is more common, except the pleasure taken in enjoying one's own self.
But if a man only feeds the hungry that he may have the satisfaction of seeing them eat, is
it the hungry or himself that he finally seeks to gratify? Clearly, himself. That is the behaviour
of the Hedonist, he acts for his own pleasure even in his benevolence. The Altruist, on the
contrary, professes never to act for self, but for society. So that society flourish, he is
ready to be crushed and ruined, not in the matter of his pleasure only, but even in that of
his own good. Selfishness, by which he means all manner of regard to self, is, upon his conscience,
the unforgiven sin. But Hedonism is selfishness in the grossest form, being the mere pursuit
in all things of pleasurable feeling--feeling being always particular and limited to self,
in contradistinction to good, which is universal and diffuses itself all round. The Hedonist
seeks his own pleasure, where the Altruist forbids him to take thought, let alone for his gratification,
but even for his good. Thus an Hedonist cannot be Altruist to boot; and, trying to combine
the two characters, the Utilitarian is committed to a self-contradiction.

If he relinquishes Hedonism, and holds to Altruism, pure and simple, his position is not much
improved. Altruism overlooks the fact, that man, as compared with other men, is a person, the
centre of his own acts, not a thing, to be entirely referred to others. He is in relation with
others, as child, father, husband, master, citizen; but these relations do not take up the
whole man. There is a residue within,--an inner being and life, which is not referable to any
creature outside himself, but only to the Creator. For this inner being, man is responsible
to God alone. The good of this, the "inner man of the heart," is each individual's proper and
primary care. Altruism, and Utilitarianism with it, ignore the interior life of the soul, and
substitute human society, that is, ultimately, the democratic State, in place of God.

(3) Another confusion that the Greatest Happiness Principle involves, is the mistaking the
political for the ethical end of life. The political end, which it is the statesman's business
to aim at, and the citizen's duty to subserve, is "the natural happiness of the commonwealth,
and of individuals as members of the commonwealth, that they may live in it in peace and justice,
and with a sufficiency of goods for the preservation and comfort of bodily life, and with that
amount of moral rectitude which is necessary for this outward peace and preservation of the
commonwealth, and the perpetuity of the human race." (Suarez, De Legibus, III., xi., 7.) This
is all the good that the Utilitarian contemplates. He is satisfied to make a good citizen,
a good husband, a good father, for the transactions of this life. He has no concern to make
a good man up to the ethical standard, which supposes the observance of the whole natural law,
duties to God, and duties within himself, as well as duties to human society, and by this observance
the compassing of the everlasting happiness of the man's own individual soul.

Against the Principle of Utility I find these charges:

(1) It takes the sign and indication of moral evil for the evil itself, as if the physician
should take the symptom for the disease. It places the wickedness of an act in the physical
misery and suffering that are its consequences. This is, I say, a taking of the indication
for the thing indicated. An act is bad in itself and by itself, as being a violation of the
rational nature of the doer (c. vi., s. i.), and being bad, it breeds bad consequences. But
the badness of the act is moral; the badness of the consequences, physical. There is an evident
intrinsic irrationality, and thereby moral evil, in such sins as intemperance, peevishness,
and vanity. But let us take an instance of an act, apparently harmless in itself, and evil
solely because of the consequences. Supposing one insists upon playing the piano for his own
amusement, to the disturbance of an invalid who is lying in a critical state in the next room.
Do the mere consequences make this otherwise innocent amusement evil? Yes, if you consider
the amusement in the abstract: but if you take it as this human act, the act is inordinate
and evil in itself, or as it is elicited in the mind of the agent. The volition amounts to
this: "I prefer my amusement to my neighbour's recovery," which is an act unseemly and unreasonable
in the mind of a social being. Utilitarians fall into the capital error of ignoring the intrinsic
value of an act, and estimating it wholly by extrinsic results, because they commonly follow
the phenomenalist philosophy, which breaks away from all such ideas as substance and nature,
and regards nothing but sequences and coexistences of phenomena. To a phenomenalist the precept,
Live up to thy nature, can have no meaning.

(2) Aristotle (Ethics, II., iv., 3) draws this distinction between virtue and art, that "the
products of art have their excellence in themselves: it suffices therefore that they are of
this or that quality: but acts of virtue are not done virtuously according to the quality of
the thing done, but according to the state of mind of the doer; first, according to his knowledge
of what he was about; then, according to his volition, as that was guided or not guided by
the proper motives of the virtue; thirdly, according to the steadiness and fixedness of his
will; whereas all these considerations are of no account in a work of art, except the single
one of the artist being aware of what he was about." Elsewhere (Ethics, VI., iv., 2), he says
that virtue is distinguished from art as being action, not production. The Principle of Utility
confounds virtue with art, or perhaps I should say, with manufactures. It judges conduct, as
one would shoemaking, by trial of the product, or net result. So far from being solicitous,
with Aristotle, that volition should be "guided by the proper motives of the virtue" which
there is question of practising (c. v., s. viii., n. 4, p. 96: Ar. Eth., III., viii.), Mill
(Utilitarianism, p. 26) tells us that "utilitarian moralists have gone beyond almost all others
in affirming that the motive has nothing to do with the morality of the action." By motive
he understands what we have called the end in view. (c. iii., s. ii., n. 2, p. 31.) So that,
if one man waits on the sick for the love of God, and another in hope of a legacy, the morality
of these two acts is the same, just as it makes no difference to the usefulness of a pair of
boots, what motive it was that set the shoemaker to work. True, Mill admits that the motive
has "much to do with the worth of the agent:" but that, he hastens to explain, is inasmuch
as "it indicates ... a bent of character from which useful, or from which hurtful actions are
likely to arise." Even so,--the shoemaker who works to earn money for a carousal, is not likely
to go on producing useful articles so long as another, who labours to support his family. Such
is the moral difference that Mill places between the two men; one instrument of production
is longer available than the other.

(3) Another well established distinction is that between harm and injury, injury being wilful
and unjust harm. The housemaid, who in arranging the room has burned your manuscript of "sugared
sonnets," has done you no injury, for she meant none, but how vast the harm to the author and
to mankind! Harm is visible in the effects: but injury only upon examination of the mind of
the agent. Not so, however, the Utilitarian thinks: harm being equal, he can make no difference
between a tyrant and a man-eating tiger. Thus George Grote says of a certain murderous usurper
of the kingdom of Macedon: "You discover nothing while your eye is fixed on Archelaus himself....
But when you turn to the persons whom he has killed, banished, or ruined--to the mass of suffering
that he has inflicted--and to the widespread insecurity which such acts of iniquity spread
through all societies where they become known--there is no lack of argument which prompts a
reflecting spectator to brand him as [a most dangerous and destructive animal, no] a disgraceful
man." (Grote's Plato, ii., p. 108.) Why Archelaus is described in terms of the tiger, and then
branded as a disgraceful man, we are at a loss to conceive, except in this way, that the writer's
philosophy forsook him at the end of the sentence, and he reverted to the common sense of mankind.
But he should have either ended the sentence as suggested in the parenthesis, or have been
willing to call the man-eater of the Indian jungle, who has "learned to make widows, and to
lay waste their cities," a disgraceful tiger; or lastly, he should have looked back, where
he declared it was vain to look, upon Archelaus himself, and discerned in him that moral deformity,
and contradiction of reason, whereof a brute beast is incapable, but which is a disgrace and
a stain upon humanity.

A later writer, who presses Utilitarianism into the service of Socialism, is plainer-spoken
than Grote, and says bluntly: "To be honestly mistaken avails nothing. Thus Herbert Spencer--who
is under the delusion that we have come into this world each for the sake of himself, and who
opposes, as far as he can, the evolution of society--is verily an immoral man.... Right is
every conduct which tends to the welfare of society; wrong, what obstructs that welfare." (Gronlund,
Co-operative Commonwealth, pp. 226, 227.) Thus is overlaid the difference between harm and
injury, between physical and moral evil: thus is the meaning of a human act ignored: in this
abyss of chaos and confusion, which Utilitarianism has opened out, Moral Philosophy finds her
grave.

(4) The Principle of Utility sees in virtue a habit of self-sacrifice, useful to the community,
but not naturally pleasant, and therefore not naturally good and desirable, to him that practises
it, but made pleasurable and good and desirable to him by practice. (Mill, pp. 53-57.) In this
way virtue becomes naturally a very good thing for every one else but its possessor, but to
him it is a natural evil, inasmuch as it deprives him of pleasure, which natural evil by habit
is gradually converted into a factitious and artificial good, the man becoming accustomed to
it, as the proverb says, "like eels to skinning." This theory is the resuscitation of one current
among the Sophists at Athens, and described by Plato thus.--The natural good of man is to afford
himself every indulgence, even at the expense of his neighbours. He follows his natural good
accordingly: so do his neighbours follow theirs, and try to gratify themselves at his expense.
Fights ensue, till mankind, worried and wearied with fighting, make a compact, each to give
up so much of his natural good as interferes with that of his neighbour. Human society, formed
on this understanding, enforces the compact in the interest of society. Thus the interest of
society is opposed to the interest of the individual, in this that it keeps him out of his
best natural good, which is to do as his appetite of pleasure bids him in all things, though
it compensates him with a second-class good, by preventing his neighbours from pleasure-hunting
at his expense. If then his neighbours could be restrained, and he left free to gratify himself,
that would be perfect bliss. But only a despot here or there has attained to it. The ordinary
man must pay his tax of virtue to the community, a loss to him, but a gain to all the rest:
while he is compensated by the losses which their virtue entails upon them.

Such was the old Athenian theory, which John Mill, the Principle of Utility in his hand, completes
by saying that by-and-bye, and little by little (as the prisoner of Chillon came to love his
dungeon), the hampered individual comes to love, and to find an artificial happiness in, those
restrictions of his liberty, which are called Virtue.

It was against this theory that Plato wrote his Republic, and, to compare a little thing to
a great, the whole account of moral good being in consonance with nature, and of moral obligation
rising out of the nature of the individual man, as has been set forth in this brief Text-book,
may serve for a refutation of the perverse doctrine of Utilitarianism.

Readings.--Plato, Republic, pp. 338 E, 339 A, 343 C, D, E, 344 A, B, C, 358 E, 359 A, B, 580 B, C.

       *       *       *       *       *

PART III. NATURAL LAW.

We assume in Natural Law the preceding treatise on Ethics, and also the principal truths of
Natural Theology.

CHAPTER I.

OF DUTIES OF GOD.

SECTION I.--Of the Worship of God.

1. Worship is divided into prayer and praise. To pray, and present our petitions to the Most
High, is a privilege; a privilege, however, which we are bound to use at times, as the necessary
means for overcoming temptations and inclinations to evil. We praise and adore God for His
sovereign excellence, which excellence, nevertheless, would found in us no positive duty if
we stood free of all dependence upon God. In such an hypothesis we should lie simply under
the negative duty of not thinking of God, speaking of Him, or acting towards Him otherwise
than with all reverence. So we should behave to the Great Stranger, with civility, with admiration
even and awe, but not with cordiality, not with loyalty, not with homage, not with love. Very
different are our relations and our duties to God our Lord, "in whom we live, move, and have
our being." There is nothing in us or about us, no positive perfection of ours whatsoever,
that is not His gift, and a gift that He is not giving continually, else it would be lost to
us. We are therefore bound in His regard, not merely to abstention but to act. And first, for
inward acts, we must habitually feel, and at notable intervals we must actually elicit, sentiments
of adoration and praise, of thanksgiving, of submission, of loyalty and love, as creatures
to their Creator, and as vassals to their very good Lord, for He is our Creator and Lord in
the natural order, not to say anything here of the supernatural filiation, by which, as the
Church says, "we dare" to call God "Our Father."

2. We must also express these sentiments by outward act. All the signs of reverence, which
man pays to his human superior, must be paid to God "with advantages": bowing passes into prostration,
uncovering the head into kneeling, kissing the hand into offering of incense: not that these
particular developments are necessary, but some such development must take place. We shall
not be content to think reverential thoughts, but we shall say, or even sing, great things
of God's greatness and our indebtedness and duty: such a vocal exercise is psalmody. We shall
represent in symbolic action our dependence on the Lord of life and death, and also our sinfulness,
for which He might justly strike us dead: such a representation is sacrifice.

3. All this we must do, first, for the sake of our own souls, minds and hearts, to quicken
the inward sentiment of adoration and praise. "Worship, mostly of the silent sort," worship,
that finds no expression in word or gesture,--worship away from pealing organs and chants of
praise, or the simpler music of the human voice, where no hands are uplifted, nor tongues loosened,
nor posture of reverence assumed, becomes with most mortals a vague, aimless reverie, a course
of distraction, dreaminess, and vacancy of mind, no more worth than the meditations of the
Lancashire stone-breaker, who was asked what he thought of during his work,--"Mostly nowt."

4. Again, what the body is to the soul, that is exterior devotion to interior. From the soul
interior devotion springs, and through the body it manifests itself. Exterior devotion, without
the inward spirit that quickens it, is worship unprofitable and dead: it tends at once to corruption,
like the body when the soul has left it. Interior devotion, on the other hand, can exist, though
not with its full complement, without the exterior. So that it is only in the union of the
two together that perfect worship is given to God by men as men. Upon which St. Thomas has
this naive remark, that "they who blame bodily observances being paid to God, evidently fail
to remember that they themselves are men."

Thus we pay tithe to God for soul and body, by acts of religion interior and exterior. But
man is, under God, the lord of this earth and of the fulness thereof. He must pay tithe for
that too by devoting some portion of it to the direct service of God, to whom it all primarily
belongs. For "mine is the gold and mine the silver." (Aggeus ii. 9.) Such are the words that
God spoke through His prophet to incite His people to restore his sanctuary.

6. It is therefore not true to say that the sole reason of outward worship is to move the worshipper
to interior devotion. It is not true that St. Peter's at Rome, and Cologne Cathedral, and the
Duomo of Milan, with all their wealth and elaborate ceremonial, exist and are kept up solely
because, things of earth as we are, we cannot be depended upon to praise God lovingly within
the white-washed walls of a conventicle, or according to the simple ritual of the Society of
Friends. We would not, even if we could, pray habitually among such surroundings, where we
could afford to better them. We have before us the principle of St. Thomas (1a 2a, q. 24, art.
3, in corp.):

"Since man's good consists in reason as in its root, the more actions proper to man are performed
under the direction of reason, the more perfect will man's good be. Hence no one doubts that
it belongs to the perfection of moral good, that the actions of our bodily members should be
directed by the law of reason, ... as also that the passions of the soul should be regulated
by reason."

This means, not merely that if the bodily members or the passions stir at all, it is a good
and desirable thing for them to be ruled by reason; but further that it is a positive addition
to human perfection that they should stir and be active, provided reason guide them. (Ethics,
c. iv., s. i., n. 6, p. 45.)

It certainly is an action proper to man to express in gesture, in voice, in concert and company
with his fellow-men, and by employment of whatever is best and fairest and brightest under
his command in the material creation, his inward affections of loyalty, of homage and devotion,
of awe and reverence, of gratitude and love to his Creator.

Good as these affections are in the heart of the worshipper, they receive an external complement
of goodness and perfection by being blazoned forth in vocal utterance, singing, bending of
knees,--by the erection and embellishment of temples, and offerings of gold, silver, precious
stones, and incense,--and by men thronging those temples in multitudes for social worship,--provided
always that the inward devotion of the heart be there, to put a soul into these outward demonstrations
and offerings.

7. Concerning these religious observances interior and exterior, it is as idle to pretend that
they are useful to Almighty God as it is irrelevant to object that they are useless to Him.
Of course they are useless to Him. All creation is useless to God. A Being who can never receive
any profit, increment, or gain, dwells not within the region of utilities. Theologians indeed
distinguish between intrinsic and extrinsic glory, that is, between the glory which God gives
Himself by His own contemplation of His own essence, and the glory which His creatures give
Him. They say that God is thus capable of extrinsic increment, to which increment the praise
and worship of His creatures is useful. But, after all, they are fain to avow that the whole
of this extrinsic increment and glory is no real gain to God, giving Him nothing but what He
had before in an infinitely more excellent mode and manner from and of Himself. Thus it appears
that the extrinsic glory of God, to which the worship paid Him by man contributes, is valued,
not because it is properly useful to Him, but because He is most properly and highly worthy
of it. (Apoc. iv. II.) And being worthy of this glory, He wills to have it, and does most strictly
exact it, for which reason He is called in the Scripture a jealous God. So those who reflect
some sparkle of God's Majesty, and under some aspect represent His person upon the earth, as
do princes, lay and ecclesiastical, have many observances of honour and respect paid to them,
which are not useful as supplying a need--for who needs a salute of twenty-one guns? nevertheless
their dignity is worthy of them, and they require them accordingly.

8. What man feels strongly, he expresses in word and action. What all men feel strongly, they
express by meeting together for the purpose. So that, if strong religious feeling is an element
in every good and reasonable man's character, it is bound to find expression, and that a social
expression. Men must worship together according to some external form and ritual. God may reveal
what He wills that ritual to be. In fact He did give such a revelation and prescription to
the Jews. To Christians He has spoken in His Son, and still speaks in His Church. Any other
than the one sacrifice that He has instituted, or any other public religious ritual than is
approved by the religious authority which He has established, is to Him of itself, and apart
from the invincibly erroneous devotion of them that pay it, an abomination: for He has "not
chosen it." Still we cannot say that, in every possible state of things, God is bound to reveal
the ritual that He desires, or is bound Himself to designate the authority that shall fix the
ritual which alone He will accept and allow of. If the will of God is not thus expressed, a
ritual must still be drawn up. In a matter that excites the mind, as religion does, and where
a large field is open for hallucination and eccentricity, it will not do to have individuals
parading methods of worship of their own invention. Here the Greek maxim comes in, [Greek:
tima tho daimonion katha tha patria], "honour the Deity after the fashion of thy country."
Religious authorities must be set up, in the same way that the civil power is set up. These
authorities will determine, not the object, but the outward manner of worship. Every great
nation, or important member of the human family, would come probably to have its own characteristic
rite; and within each rite there would be local varieties.

Readings.--St. Thos., Contra Gentiles, iii., 119; 2a 2a, q. 81, art. 4, in corp.; ib., q. 81,
art. 7 ib., q. 84, art. 2: ib., q. 85, art. 1, in corp., ad 1, 3; ib., q. 91.

SECTION II.--Of Superstitious Practices.

1. Superstition is the abuse of religion. It is superstition, either to worship false gods,
or to worship the true God with unauthorized rites, or to have dealings with wicked spirits,
whether those spirits have once animated human bodies or not. Of the first head, the only avowed
instance within our civilization is the Positivist worship of the Great Being, that is, of
the collective Worthies of Humanity, if indeed it amounts to worship. The second head might
have been meditated by Archbishop Cranmer with advantage, when he was drawing up the Edwardine
Ordinal. Under the third head comes Spiritualism, which we shall here not discuss in detail,
but merely indicate certain principles upon which it must be judged.

2. "There is nothing superstitious or unlawful in simply applying natural agencies to the production
of certain effects, of which they are supposed to be naturally capable.... We must consider
whether there is a fair appearance of the cause being able to produce the effect naturally.
If there is, the experiment will not be unlawful: for it is lawful to use natural causes in
order to their proper effects." (2a 2a, q. 96, art. 2, in corp., ad 1.) But this we must understand
under two provisos. First, that the "fair appearance" spoken of be not opposed by a considerable
force of evidence, whether of authority or of reason, tending the other way: for in this matter,
which is not a mere matter of legality, it is not permissible to run risks of becoming familiar
with God's enemies. Secondly, that the cause, though natural, be not morally prejudicial. Not
even a natural cause, brandy for instance, may be used to all its effects. Thus for the mesmeric
sleep, though that should be proved to be purely natural, yet the weakening of the will thence
ensuing, and the almost irresistible dominion acquired by the operator over his patient, render
it imperative that such a remedy should not be applied without grave necessity, and under an
operator of assured moral character.

3. St. Thomas continues in the place last quoted: "Wherefore, if there is no fair appearance
of the causes employed being able to produce such effects, it needs must be that they are not
employed to the causation of these effects as causes, but only as signs, and thus they come
under the category of preconcerted signals arranged with evil spirits."

The modern Spiritualist is only too forward to avow his understanding with the unseen powers;
but he will have it that the spirits that he deals with are good and harmless. We must prove
the spirits by the general effects of their communications--whether they be in accordance with
the known laws of morality, and the assured teachings of religion, natural and revealed. Also
we must consider, from what we know from approved sources concerning God, and His holy angels,
and the spirits of the just, either already made perfect, or still suffering for a time, whether
they are likely to respond to such signs as Spiritualists commonly employ. Also we must not
ignore, what revelation tells us, of an "enemy," a "father of lies," who "changes himself into
an angel of light," and who is ever ready, so far as it is permitted him, to eke out curiosity,
folly, and credulity, such as he found in Eve.

Readings.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 93; ib., q. 95, art. 4, in corp.

SECTION III.--Of the duty of knowing God.

1. Religious worship is bound to its object, and cannot possibly be fixed in the hearts of
men and the institutions of society, if the object be doubtful and fluctuating. False religion
has often been set off with elaborate and gorgeous ceremonial, which has been kept up even
after the performers had come to see in all that light and lustre a mere vain and unsubstantial
show. Such were the rites of Roman polytheism, as enacted by augurs and pontiffs, the colleagues
of Cicero and Casar. But though that worship was maintained, and even augmented, for political
purposes, without a creed, yet never could it have arisen without some creed, however mistaken,
earnestly held of old. A firm interior conviction is the starting-point of all outward worship.
But if the modern living worshipper is without creed and conviction; if he be a scoffer at
heart, or at least a doubter; what a hollow, horrid skeleton thing is his religion,--all the
more horrid, the grander its dress! That is not worship, but mummery.

2. If then to worship God is a duty, as we have proved, it is a duty likewise to know God.
This supposes that God is knowable, a fact which it does not lie within the province of this
work to prove. To an unknown God, all the worship we could render would be to build Him an
altar, without priest, prayer, or sacrifice, and so leave Him in His solitude. God is knowable
by the manifestation of His works (Rom. i. 19); and where He is pleased to speak, by the revelation
of His word. Apart from revelation--and, under a certain order of Providence, God might have
left us without revelation--we should study our Creator as He is made manifest in the world
around us, in the existence of perishable things, in the order of the universe, in the region
of things eternally possible and knowable, in moral truths, in the mental life and conscience
of man. Philosophy would be our guide in the search after God. Men with less leisure or ability
for speculation would acquiesce in the pronouncements of philosophers on things divine; and,
in the hypothesis which we are contemplating, Providence would doubtless arrange for the better
agreement and harmony of philosophers among themselves. Their trumpet would not send forth
so uncertain a blast, were that the instrument, in the counsels of God, whereby the whole duty
of religion was to be regulated. As it is, we know better than philosophy could teach us: for
God hath spoken in His Son.

Readings.--C. Gent., i., 4; 1a 2a, q. 91, art.

1. In a hilly country, two or three steps sometimes measure all the interval between the basins
of two rivers, whose mouths are miles apart. In the crisis of an illness the merest trifle
will turn the scale between death and recovery. In a nice point of law and intricate procedure,
the lawyer is aware that scarcely more than the thickness of the paper on which he writes lies
between the case going for his client or for the opposite party. To rail at these fine technicalities
argues a lay mind, unprofessional and undiscerning. Hair-splitting, so far as it is a term
of real reproach, means splitting the wrong hairs. The expert in any profession knows what
things to divide and distinguish finely, and what things to take in the gross. Moral Science
in many respects gives its demonstrations, and can give them, only "in the way of rough drawing,"
as Aristotle says. ([Greek: pachulos kai tupo], Ethics, I., iii., 4.) But there are lines of
division exceeding fine and nice in natural morality no less than in positive law. The student
must not take scandal at the fine lines and subtle distinctions that we shall be obliged to
draw in marking off lawful from unlawful action touching human life.

2. It is never lawful directly to kill an innocent man. Understand innocent in the social and
political sense, of a man who has not, by any human act (Ethics, c. i., n. 2, p. 1) of his
own, done any harm to society so grievous as to compare with loss of life. To kill, or work
any other effect, directly, is to bring about that death, or other effect, willing the same,
either as an end desirable in itself, as when a man slays his enemy, whose death of its own
sheer sake is to him a satisfaction and a joy, or as a means to an end, as Richard III. murdered
his nephews to open his own way to the throne. We must then in no case compass the death of
the innocent, either intending it as an end, or choosing it as a means. The assertion is proved
by these considerations. To kill a man is to destroy the human nature within him: for, though
the soul survives, he is man no more when he is dead. Now to destroy a thing is to subordinate
that thing entirely to your self and your own purposes: for that individual thing can never
serve any other purpose, once it is destroyed. The man that is killed is then subordinated
to the slayer, wholly given up, and as we say, sacrificed, to the aims and purposes of him
who slays him. But that ought not to be, for man is a person. Body and soul in him make one
person, one personal nature, which human personality is destroyed in death. Now it is the property
of a person to be what we may call autocentric, referring its own operations to itself as to
a centre. Every person--and every intelligent nature is a person [Footnote 17]--exists and
acts primarily for himself. A thing is marked off from a person by the aptitude of being another's
and for another. We may venture to designate it by the term heterocentric. A person therefore
may destroy a thing, entirely consume and use it up for his own benefit. But he may not treat
a person as a thing, and destroy that, either for any end of pleasure that he finds in destroying
it, or in view of any gain or good, whereunto that destruction serves him as a means.

[Footnote 17: The exception apparent in the Incarnation is not relevant here.]

3. In the above argumentation account has not been taken of God, to whom for His sovereign
dominion all created personalities stand in the light of things, and may be destroyed at His
pleasure. But account has been taken of the State, to which the individual is subordinate as
a citizen, but not as a man and a person. It is permitted no more to the State than to the
individual ever to destroy the innocent directly.

4. An effect is brought about indirectly, when it is neither intended as an end for its own
sake, nor chosen as a means making towards an end, but attaches as a circumstance concomitant
either to the end intended or to the means chosen. The case of a circumstance so attaching
to the means chosen is the only case that we need consider here in speaking of indirect, concomitant,
or incidental effects. The study of these incidents is of vast importance to the moralist.
Most cases of practical difficulty to decide between right and wrong, arise out of them. They
are best illustrated in the manner of killing. That one matter, well worked out, becomes a
pattern for other matters in which they occur. (Ethics, c. iii., s. ii., p. 31.)

5. A man is killed indirectly, or incidentally, when he perishes in consequence of certain
means employed towards a certain end, without his death being willed by the employer of those
means, or in any way serving that agent to the furtherance of the end that he has in view.
If a visitor to a quarry were standing on a piece of rock, which a quarryman had occasion to
blast, and the man fired the train regardless of the visitor, the latter would be incidentally
killed. Now incidental killing, even of the innocent, is not under all circumstances unlawful.
Where the end in view is in the highest degree important, the means may be taken thereto, provided
always that such an issue as the shedding of innocent blood be not itself the means discerned
and elected as furthering the end: for no end however urgent can justify the employment of
any evil means. (Ethics, c. iii., s. ii., nn. 3, 13, pp. 32, 36.) Suppose in the instance just
given the quarryman saw that, unless that piece of rock where the visitor stood were blown
up instantly, a catastrophe would happen elsewhere, which would be the death of many men, and
there were no time to warn the visitor to clear off, who could blame him if he applied the
explosive? The means of averting the catastrophe would be, not that visitor's death, but the
blowing up of the rock. The presence or absence of the visitor, his death or escape, is all
one to the end intended: it has no bearing thereon at all.

6. We must then distinguish between means and circumstances. The means help to the end, the
circumstances of the means do not. When the end is of extreme urgency, circumstances may be
disregarded: the means become morally divested of them. So I have seen an island in a river,
a nucleus of rock with an environment of alluvial soil. While the stream was flowing placidly
in its usual course, the island remained intact, both rock and earth. But when the water came
rushing in a flood, which was as though the island itself had gone speeding up the river, the
loose matter at its sides was carried away, and only the central rock remained. The ordinary
flow of the river past the island, or the gentle motion of the island up-stream, keeping all
its bulk, represents a man acting for an end to which reason attaches no great importance.
He must then take a diligent review of all the circumstances that have any close connection
with his action, to see if there is any that it would be wrong for him to will directly. And
if there is, he must abstain from willing it even indirectly: that is, he must abstain from
doing the action, which cannot be done without that objectionable circumstance attending it.
On the other hand, the floating island being towed rapidly up-stream, with its loose sides
falling away, portrays the condition of one acting for a purpose of imperative urgency: he
considers the means to that end, and if they are good, he concentrates his will upon them and
uses them, disregarding, or even deploring, but nowise willing or being responsible for, the
evil concomitants which go with those means, but do not make for his end. Thus it is, that
a circumstance which in ordinary cases goes to make the adoption of certain means reasonable
or unreasonable, comes, in a case of great urgency, to weigh for nothing in the balance of
reason, owing to the extreme and crying reasonableness of the end in view. Nor is this the
end justifying the means, for that unhappy circumstance is never a means to the end. (Ethics,
c. iii., s. ii., n. 8, p. 34.)

7. To illustrate by a diagram:

A, the agent, a bead on a wire, can move only on the line AE, that alone being the line of
means to the end.

EV, reasonableness of end in view, attracting A.

UC, the amount of moral evil which the untoward circumstance would involve, if it were willed
directly. This UC repels A, tending to jam it on the line AE, which is absolutely rigid.

AE, remoteness, difficulty, and uncertainty of the end in view.

AU, remoteness of untoward circumstance from means chosen, which A is just in the act of taking.
Then, for lawful action, the reasonableness required in the end in view is represented by the
variation--

We observe that when AU is zero, while UC . AE remains a finite quantity (representing an appreciable
evil), then EV becomes infinite: that is to say, when the distance, difference, or distinction
between the evil circumstance and the means comes down to nothing at all, and the evil thing
actually is the very means taken, then an infinite urgency of end in view would be requisite
to justify the using of that means: in other words, no end possible to man can ever justify
an evil means.

Readings.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q.64, art. 6; Cardinal de Lugo, De Justitia et Jure, disp. 10, n. 125.

SECTION II.--Of Killing done Indirectly in Self-defence.

1. On the question, whether it is lawful for one man to kill another in self-defence, St. Thomas
writes (2a 2a, q. 64, art. 7):

"There is nothing to hinder one act having two effects, of which one only is within the intention
[and election] of the doer, while the other is beside his intention [and election, that is,
is neither intended as an end nor elected as a means].... From the act therefore of one defending
himself a twofold effect may follow, one the preservation of his own life, the other the killing
of the aggressor. Now such an act, in so far as the preservation of the doer's own life is
intended, has no taint of evil about it, seeing that it is natural to everything to preserve
itself in being as much as it can. Nevertheless, an act coming of a good intention may be rendered
unlawful, if it be not in proportion to the end in view. And therefore, if any one uses greater
violence than is necessary for the defence of his life, it will be unlawful. But if he repels
the violence in a moderate way, it will be a lawful defence: for according to the Civil and
Canon Laws it is allowable to repel force by force with the moderation of a blameless defence.
Nor is it necessary to salvation for a man to omit the act of moderate defence in order to
avoid the killing of another; because man is more bound to take thought for his own life than
for the life of his neighbour. But because to kill a man is not allowable except by act of
public authority for the common good, it is unlawful for a man to intend [that is, elect and
choose as a means] to kill another man in order to defend himself, unless he be one who has
public authority, who intending [electing] to kill a man in order to his own defence, refers
this to the public good."

2. The right then of self-defence even to the shedding of blood involves a mere exercise of
indirect killing for a proportionably grave cause. The cause in question is the defence of
your own life, or your friend's, or of some other good or possession that can weigh with life,
as the honour and inviolability of your person, or a large sum of money. This must be in present
danger of being taken away otherwise than in due course of justice. The danger must be present,
and even imminent, not prospective. The right of self-defence even to the grievous harming
of the aggressor, endures only while the danger from him is imminent, not when it is past,
or the evil is already done. The right supposes no moral obliquity, no formal injustice on
the part of the aggressor: he may be a madman making for you with a drawn sword. Nay further,
not even material injustice--that is, the quality of an act which would be formally unjust,
if only the agent knew what he was about--is required. All that is requisite is that your life,
or something equivalent to life, be threatened, not in due course of law.

3. The essential idea of self-defence is that of stopping a trespasser, one who, however innocently,
is going about to trench on that good which you have a right to maintain and reserve to yourself.
It is then no act of authority that you perform, but the dealing of one private person with
another. Indeed, the party stopped is hardly regarded as a person: no account is taken of his
demerits: he is regarded simply as an abridger and diminisher of what you have a right to preserve
intact. You stop a man as you stop a horse, only with more regard to the moderation of a blameless
self-defence, not using more violence than is necessary here and now to preserve what you have
to preserve.

4. The stopping, unfortunately, has often to be done in a hurry: there is no time to wait:
for the next moment, unless you act promptly, it will be all too late, or all to no purpose,
to act at all. Being done in a hurry, it has to be done in a rough-and-ready way, with such
instruments as are to hand: you cannot afford to be nice about the means, carefully purifying
them, and shaking off the dust of objectionable circumstances. Now to stop a man in mid career
all on a sudden, to render him powerless where he was about to strike, motionless in the direction
whither he was about to go, and that in an instant, is of common necessity a rude treatment,
very dangerous to him who experiences it, and under some conceivable circumstances hopelessly
fatal. Still the fatality--in plain words, the death of the aggressor--is not directly willed.
It is neither intended as an end, nor chosen as a means to an end. It is not welcomed as an
end and desirable consummation: on the contrary, it is put up with most reluctantly as coming
from your act: for you, a private individual, have no right to will and effect the death of
any man, however guilty, as will be proved hereafter. It is not chosen as a means: for, formally
as his death, it is no means to your end, which was the averting of all present danger to your
right. For that it was enough to stop the trespasser; and you chose the means as a stopping
means, not as a killing means. True, in stopping him you killed him, but you did not kill him
to stop him. You struck him to stop him: that your blow was a mortal blow, was a circumstance
which you did not choose and could not help. All killing then in self-defence is indirect.

5. By this explanation, resting on St. Thomas--in opposition to Cardinal de Lugo (De Just.
et Jure. 10, 149) and others, who allow killing in self-defence to be the actual means chosen,
and therefore directly willed--we save four grand positions in Moral Science:

(a) The axiom, that it is never lawful directly to take the life of an innocent man. For the
person who perishes by occasion of your defending yourself, may be innocent formally, and even
materially also.

(b) Likewise the axiom, that it is never lawful for a private individual to kill any one whatever.
We say, from a technical standpoint, that he does not kill but arrests the onset of the aggressor.

(c) We are in hearty accord with the positive law of all civilized countries, which views with
extreme suspicion all deaths said to be done in self-defence, the law being jealous of the
blood of its citizens, and reserving the shedding thereof to itself. We teach that only by
process of law can a man ever be directly slain, his death made a means of, and the person,
who strikes him, really willing and seeking, exactly speaking, to kill him.

(d) The initial error is revealed of a theory that we shall have to combat at length hereafter,
the theory of Hobbes and Locke, that the power of the State is the mere agglomeration of the
powers of the individuals who compose it. It appears by our explanation that the individual
has no power strictly to take life in any case, or ever to kill directly, as the State does
when it executes a criminal.

As a fifth point gained, we may mention the efficacious argument afforded, as will presently
be shown, against the acceptance of a duel under any conceivable circumstances, a thesis otherwise
not easy to establish by reason.

6. In view of the question of the origin of civil government, we must carefully collect the
differences between self-defence and punishment. Death occasioned in self-defence is indirect:
death inflicted as punishment is direct. Punishment is an act of authority, of distributive
justice, which lies from ruler to subject (Ethics, c. v., s. ix., n. 4, p. 104): self-defence
is of equal against equal. Punishment is medicinal to him who suffers it, or deterrent on behalf
of the community, or retributive in the way of vengeance. (Ethics, c. ix., s. iii., n. 4.)
Self-defence is not on behalf of the community, still less for the good of the aggressor, but
for the good of him who practises it and for the preservation of his right: neither is it retributive
and retrospective, as vengeance is, but simply prospective and preventive of a harm immediately
imminent. Finally, the right to punish abides day and night: but the right of self-defence
holds only while instant aggression is threatened.

7. These two diverse ideas of self-defence and vengeance were confounded by the Greeks under
the one verb [Greek: amunesthai]. They are confounded by Mill, On Utility, in the fifth chapter
where he speaks (p. 77) of the "instinct of self-defence," which nine lines below he converts
into "the natural feeling of retaliation or vengeance." It is a common but a grave mistake,
and the parent of much bad philosophy.

Reading.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 64, art. 7.

SECTION III.--Of Suicide.

1. By suicide we shall here understand the direct compassing of one's own death, which is an
act never lawful. There is no difficulty in seeing the unlawfulness of suicide for ordinary
cases. The world could not go on, if men were to kill themselves upon every slight disappointment.
But neither are they likely so to do. It is the hard cases, where men are apt to lay violent
hands on themselves, that put the moralist on his mettle to restrain them by reasons. Why should
not the solitary invalid destroy himself, he whose life has become a hopeless torture, and
whose death none would mourn? Why should not a voluntary death be sought as an escape from
temptation and from imminent sin? Why should not the first victims of a dire contagion acquiesce
in being slaughtered like cattle? Or if it be deemed perilous to commit the departure from
life to each one's private whim and fancy, why not have the thing licensed under certificate
of three clergymen and four doctors, who could testify that it is done on good grounds?

2. To all these questions there is one good answer returned by Paley on the principle of General
Consequences. (Ethics, c. x., n. 3, p. 178.)

"The true question of this argument is no other than this: May every man who chooses to destroy
his life, innocently do so? Limit and distinguish the subject as you can, it will come at last
to this question. For, shall we say that we are then at liberty to commit suicide, when we
find our continuance in life becomes useless to mankind? Any one who pleases, may make himself
useless; and melancholy minds are prone to think themselves useless when they really are not
so.... In like manner, whatever other rule you assign, it will ultimately bring us to an indiscriminate
toleration of suicide, in all cases in which there is danger of its being committed. It remains,
therefore, to enquire what would be the effect of such a toleration: evidently, the loss of
many lives to the community, of which some might be useful or important; the affliction of
many families, and the consternation of all: for mankind must live in continual alarm for the
fate of their friends, when every disgust which is powerful enough to tempt men to suicide,
shall be deemed sufficient to justify it." (Moral Philosophy, bk. iv., c. iii.)

A word in confirmation of Paley on the plan of the medico-clerical certificate. There would
be doctors, and I fear clergymen too, who would get a name for giving these certificates easily:
under their hand many a patient might be smothered by his attendants with or without his own
consent. Many another wretch would consider, that if the learned and reverend gentlemen empowered
to license his departure from life only felt what he had to endure, there would be no difficulty
about the certificate: so he would depart on presumed leave. The whole effect would be to make
men less tender of their own lives, and by consequence of those of others, to the vast unsettling
of society.

3. An argument from general consequences, however, does not go down into the depths of things.
There is always something morally crooked and inordinate in an action itself, the general consequences
whereof are bad. It remains to point out the moral crookedness, inordination, and unreasonableness,
that is intrinsic to the act of suicide, apart from its consequences. We find the inordination
in this, that suicide is an act falling upon undue matter, being an act destructive of that
which the agent has power over only to preserve. It is natural to every being, animate and
inanimate, to the full extent of its entity and power, to maintain itself, and to resist destruction
as long as it can. This is the struggle for existence, one of the primary laws of nature. Man
has intelligence and power over himself, that he may conduct his own struggle well and wisely.
He may struggle more or less, as he sees expedient, looking to higher goods even than self-preservation
in this mortal life: but he may not take that power of managing himself, which nature invests
him with for his preservation, and use it to his own destruction. Should he do so, he perverts
the natural order of his own being, and thereby sins. (Ethics, c. vi., s. i., nn. 1-5, p. 109.)

4. It may be objected, that man is only bound to self-preservation so long as life is a blessing;
that, when the scale of death far outweighs that of life in desirableness, it is cruelty to
himself to preserve his life any longer, and a kindness to himself to destroy it; that in such
a plight, accordingly, it is not unnatural for a man to put himself, not so much out of life
as out of misery. To this argument it is sometimes answered that, whereas death is the greatest
of evils, it is foolish and wicked to resort to dying as a refuge against any other calamity.
But this answer proves too much. It would show that it is never lawful even to wish for death:
whereas under many conditions, such as those now under consideration, death is a consummation
devoutly to be wished, and may be most piously desired, as a gain and by comparison a good:
as Ecclesiasticus says (xxx. 17): "Better is death than a bitter life, and everlasting rest
than continual sickness." The truth seems to be, that there are many things highly good and
desirable in themselves, which become evil when compassed in a particular way. The death of
a great tyrant or persecutor may be a blessing to the universe, but his death by the hand of
an assassin is an intolerable evil. So is death, as the schoolmen say, in facto esse, and everlasting
rest, better than a bitter life, but not death in fieri, when that means dying by your own
hand. There the unnaturalness comes in and the irrationality. A mother, watching the death
agony of her son, may piously wish it over: but it were an unmotherly act to lay her own hand
on his mouth and smother him. To lay violent hands on oneself is abidingly cruel and unnatural,
more so than if the suicide's own mother slew him.

5. But though a man may not use actual violence against his own person, may he not perhaps
cease to preserve himself, abstain from food, as the Roman noble did, in the tortures of the
gout, and by abstaining end them? I answer, a man's taking food periodically is as much part
of his life as the coursing of the blood in his veins. It is doing himself no less violence
to refuse food ready to hand, when he is starving, on purpose that he may starve, than to open
a vein on purpose to bleed to death. This, when the food is readily accessible: the case is
otherwise when it is not procurable except by extraordinary means.

6. Another consideration. To destroy a thing is the exclusive right of the owner and master
of the same. If therefore man is his own master, in the sense that no one else can claim dominion
over him, may he not accordingly destroy himself? The metaphysician will point out that master
denotes a relation, that every relation has two terms, that consequently a man cannot be his
own master any more than he can be his own father; and that, not owning himself, he may not
destroy himself. But, leaving this metaphysical argument for what it is worth, we observe that
man has a Master, Owner, Proprietor, and Sovereign Lord, God Almighty. To take your own life
is to usurp the dominion of God. It is wronging the Lord of life and death. But none is wronged
against his will: God is willing that murderers should be hung, may He not also be willing
that men in misery should hang themselves? To this query suffice it for the present to reply,
that God governs us for our good; and that capital punishment makes for the good of the community,
but never suicide. (c. viii., s. viii., n. 7, p. 349.)

7. It was the doctrine of Aristotle and the Greeks, that the citizen belongs to the State,
and that therefore suicide was robbing the State and doing it a formal injury. But no modern
State takes this view of its subjects. No modern mind would place suicide in the same category
of crime with robbing the Exchequer.

8. The great deterrent against suicide, in cases where misery meets with recklessness, is the
thought,

  In that sleep of death what dreams may come!--

above all, the fear of being confronted with an angry God. Away from belief in God's judgments
and a future state, our arguments against suicide may be good logic, but they make poor rhetoric
for those who need them most. Men are wonderfully imitative in killing themselves. Once the
practice is come in vogue, it becomes a rage, an epidemic. Atheism and Materialism form the
best nidus for the contagion of suicide. It is a shrewd remark of Madame de Stael: "Though
there are crimes of a darker hue than suicide, yet there is none other by which man seems so
entirely to renounce the protection of God."

Readings.--Ar., Eth., III., vii., 13; ib., V., xi., nn. 1-3; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 64, art.
5; St. Aug., De Civitate Dei, i., cc. 26, 27; Paley, Mor. Phil., bk. iv., c. iii.

SECTION IV.--Of Duelling.

1. A duel may be defined: A meeting of two parties by private agreement to fight with weapons
in themselves deadly. The meeting must be by agreement: a chance meeting of Montagues and Capulets,
where the parties improvise a fight on the spot is not a duel. The agreement must be private;
anything arranged by public authority, as the encounter of David with Goliath, that in the
legend of the Horatii and Curiatii, or the wager of battle in the Middle Ages is not a duel.
It is enough that the weapons be in themselves deadly, as swords or pistols, though there be
an express stipulation not to kill: but a pre-arranged encounter with fists, with foils with
buttons on, or even perhaps with crab-sticks, is not a duel.

2. The hard case in duelling is the case of him who receives the challenge. Let us make the
case as hard as possible. In a certain army, every challenge sent to an officer is reported
to a Court of Honour. If the Court decide that it ought to be accepted, accept the officer
must, or lose his commission and all hope of military distinction. In this army, say, there
is an officer of high promise who is believed to object to duels on conscientious grounds.
An enemy pretends to have been insulted, and challenges him, on purpose to see him refuse and
have to go down into the ranks, his career spoilt. The Court of Honour rules that the duel
must come off. Of this very case, Reiffenstuel, a canonist of repute, about the year 1700, writes:

"The answer is, ... that they who in such cases are so necessitated and constrained to offer,
or accept, a duel, as that unless they offered, or accepted it, they would be held cowardly,
craven, mean, and unfit to bear office in the army, and consequently would be deprived of the
office that they actually enjoy, and support themselves and their family by, or would for ever
forfeit all hope of promotion, otherwise their due and desert,--these I say in such a case
are free from all fault and penalty, whether they offer or accept a duel." (In lib. v. decret.,
tit. 14, nn. 30, 31.)

The author protests in his Preface that he wishes his opinions "all and each to be subject
to the judgment, censure, and correction of the Holy Catholic Church." The opinion above quoted
was condemned, word for word as it was uttered, by Pope Benedict XIV. in 1752.

Now for Reiffenstuel's reason. "The reason," he says, "is, because in such a case as is supposed
the acceptance and offering of a duel is an absolutely necessary, and thereby a just and lawful,
defence of your reputation, or goods of fortune, and, by equivalence, even of your life, against
an unjust aggressor, who we suppose does you an injury, and thereby gives you no choice but
to call him out, or calls you out, and accordingly assails you in words, &c. Hence, as for
the needful defence of reputation, or of goods of fortune of great consequence, it is lawful,
with the moderation of a blameless defence, to kill an unjust aggressor, so it will be also
lawful to offer and accept a duel, and therein slay the other party." Reiffenstuel here evidently
supposes that killing done in self-defence is direct. Those who agree with him on that point,
proceed to draw differences between self-defence and accepting a challenge. Of course the two
are not the same. The true difficulty for them lies in making out how the reasons which justify
self-defence in their view of it, do not also justify the acceptance of a duel: how, if I may
make another man's death a means to the preservation of my vital right, I may not as well make
another man's risk of death and my own, which is all that a duel amounts to, also a means,
none other being at hand, to the preserving of my no less vital right. This grave objection
does not touch us. We have denied that killing in self-defence is direct. On the lines of that
denial we meet Reiffenstuel's argument simply as follows.

3. In self-defence, the aggressor is slain indirectly. In a duel, not indeed the death itself,
or mutual slaughter of the combatants, is directly willed, but the risk of mutual slaughter
is directly willed. But we may not directly will the risk of that which we may not directly
do. And the combatants may not directly do themselves or one another to death. Therefore they
may not directly risk each his own and his antagonist's life. But this risk is of the essence
of a duel. Therefore duelling is essentially unlawful.

4. Such is the clenched fist, so to speak, of our argument. Now to open it out, and prove in
detail the several members. In self-defence, neither the death of the aggressor nor the risk
of his death is directly willed, whereas the risk of death is directly willed in a duel, which
difference entirely bars the argument from self-defence to duelling. For a duel is a means
of recovering and preserving honour, which is effected by a display of fortitude, which again
consists in exposing yourself to the risk of being killed, and, as part of the bargain, of
killing the other man. The risk to life is of the essence of a duel: it only attains its end--of
establishing a man's character for courage--by being dangerous to life. Fortitude essentially
consists in braving death. (Ethics, c. v., s. viii., n. 1, p. 94.) Deadly weapons, chosen because
they are deadly and involve a risk of life in fighting with such arms, are the apt and express
means for showing readiness to brave death. If the weapons were not deadly, there would be
no point in the duel. As a matter of fact, where our definition of duel is verified, and weapons
in themselves deadly are used, the encounter cannot be other than dangerous, especially between
foes and where the blood is up. In the French army, where the regimental fencing-master stands
by, sword in hand, ready to parry any too dangerous thrust, serious results still have occurred.
If any man will have it that short smooth-bore pistols at forty paces in a fog are not to be
counted dangerous weapons, all we can say is that MM. Gambetta and De Fourton, the one being
nearly blind, and the other having lost an eye, did not fight a duel. In a duel then the danger
of being killed and of killing is directly willed; it is the precise means chosen to the end
in view.

5. We have proved already that it is not lawful directly to procure one's own death, nor the
death of another innocent man. If any one contends that his antagonist is not innocent, not
even in a political sense (c. ii., s. i., n. 2, p. 203), we must here assume against him, what
we shall afterwards prove, that the guilty are not to be directly put to death except by public
authority. But what we may not directly bring about, we may not directly risk the occurrence
of. As I may not throw myself down a cliff, so neither may I walk along the edge precisely
for the chance of a fall. I may often walk there with the chance of falling, but not because
of the chance. It will be said that the English love of fox-hunting and Alpine climbing is
largely owing to the element of danger present in those amusements. But it is not the danger
pure and simple, that is chosen for amusement: it is the prospect of overcoming danger by skill.
The same may be said of Blondin on the tight-rope: it was his skill, not his mere risk, that
was admired. There are some risks that no skill can obviate, as those of Alpine avalanches.
We may face a mountain slope where avalanches occur, but we must not hang about there because
of the avalanches, making our amusement or bravado of the chance of being killed. That would
be willing the risk of death directly, as it is willed in duelling.

Readings.--Paley, Mor. Phil., bk. iii., p. 2, c. ix.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 72, art. 3.

CHAPTER III.

OF SPEAKING THE TRUTH.

SECTION I.--Of the Definition of a Lie.

1. "Let none doubt," says St. Augustine, "that he lies, who utters what is false for the purpose
of deceiving. Wherefore the utterance of what is false with a will to deceive is unquestionably
a lie." The only question is, whether this definition does not contain more than is necessary
to the thing defined. The objective falseness of what is said makes a material falsehood: the
will to utter what is false makes a formal falsehood (Ethics, c. iii., s. ii., n. 7, p. 33):
the will to create a false impression regards, not the falsehood itself, but the effect to
follow from it. If a person says what is not true, but what he takes to be the truth, he tells
indeed a material lie, but at the same time he puts forth no human act (Ethics, c. i., n. 2,
p. 1) of lying. If on the other hand he says what he believes to be false, though it turns
out true, he tells a formal lie, though not a material one, and moreover, he does a human act
of lying. But human acts are the subject-matter of morality. The moralist therefore is content
to define the formal lie: the material aspect of the lie is irrelevant to his enquiry. A formal
lie is saying what one believes not to be true, or promising what one intends not to perform:
briefly, it is speaking against one's mind.

2. We shall show presently that to speak against one's mind is intrinsically, necessarily,
and always evil. But when a thing is thus evil in itself, there is no need to bring into the
definition of the act, from a moral point of view, the intention with which it is done. There
is no use in prying into ends, when the means taken is an unlawful means for any end. If a
person blasphemes, we do not ask why he blasphemes: the intention is not part of the blasphemy:
the utterance is a sin by itself. But if a person strikes, we ask why he strikes, to heal or
to slay, in self-defence or in revenge. So, if speaking against one's mind is a thing indifferent
and colourless in point of morality, and all depends on the intention with which we do it,
so that we may speak against our minds to put another off, but not to deceive him, then certainly
the intention to deceive must be imported into the definition of lying. But if, as we shall
prove presently, the act of so speaking is by no means indifferent and colourless, but is fraught
with an inordinateness all its own, then the intention may be left out of the question, the
act is to be characterised on its own merits, and speech against one's mind is the definition
of a lie.

3. Then, some one will say, it would be a lie for a prisoner in solitary confinement to break
the silence of his cell with the exclamation, Queen Anne is not dead. The answer is simple:
it takes two to make a speech. A man does not properly speak to himself, nor quarrel with himself,
nor deal justly by himself. Not that it would be a lie to deny the death of Queen Anne even
in public: for speech is an outward affirmation, the appearance of a serious will to apply
predicate to subject: but in this case there is no appearance of a serious will: on the contrary,
from the manifest absurdity of the assertion, it is plain that you are joking and do not mean
to affirm anything. This perhaps is as far as we can go in permission of what are called lies
in jest.

Readings.--St Thos., 2a 2a, q. 110, art. 1.

SECTION II.--Of the Evil of Lying.

1. Human society cannot go on, if men are to be allowed indiscriminately to lie to one another.
Thucydides (iii., 83) gives as the reason of the extravagant length to which faction ran in
Greece in his time: "For there was no power to reconcile the parties, no plighted word reliable,
no oath held in awe." Even in trifles no one likes to be lied to, and we are not to do to our
neighbour what we would not have done to ourselves. The laws of good fellowship require that
we should "put away lying, and speak the truth every man with his neighbour: for we are members
one of another." (Ephesians iv. 25.) This at least in ordinary circumstances. The same good
fellowship requires that in ordinary circumstances we should respect the lives and property
of our fellow-men.

2. But it is lawful to take life in pursuance of the just judgment of authority: it is lawful
to seize upon property in self-preservation. These exceptions stand very harmoniously with
the well-being of society, or rather are required by it, as we shall see later on. The law
against lying, so far as it is founded on the general prejudice done to society by the shock
of social confidence, and on the particular annoyance of the party lied to, may seem to admit
of similar exceptions. Whoever has no reasonable objection to having life and property taken
from him in certain contingencies, can he reasonably complain of any hurt or inconvenience
that he may suffer from a lie being told him at times?

3. I put forward this difficulty, not as though it were without its answer in the principle
of General Consequences: still it is a difficulty. Besides, if the whole harm of lying is in
the unpleasant effect wrought upon the deceived hearer, and the scandal and bad consequences
to society at large, it is a long way to go round to show that lying is impossible to God.
He in whose dominion are all the rights and claims of man, is not to be restrained by the mere
reluctance of His creatures to be deceived, or by the general bad effects of a lie upon the
edifice of human credit. As Master He might impose this annoyance upon the individual, these
bad consequences upon society: or by His Providence He might prevent their occurring, whenever
He willed in His utterances to swerve from the truth. The only help for the argument for the
Divine veracity on these grounds, is to urge with Plato that none of the motives which lead
men to lie can ever find place in the mind of God: that a lie is a subterfuge, an economy,
a device resorted to under stress of circumstances, such as can never serve the turn of the
Supreme Being. But though God be inaccessible to human reasons for departing from the truth,
may He not have higher reasons, mysterious, and unsearchable, for such a deviation? It is long
arguing out this point. Better bring the discussion sharp round with the question: Is there
not some element in the Divine Nature itself, which makes it impossible for God to speak false?

4. Undoubtedly there is such an element, deep down, even at the root of the sanctity of God.
God is holy in that, being by essence the fulness of all being and all goodness, He is ever
true to Himself in every act of His understanding, of His will, and of His power. By His understanding
He abidingly covers, grasps, and comprehends His whole Being. With His will He loves Himself
supremely. His power is exercised entirely for His glory--entirely, but not exclusively, for
God's last and best external glory is in the consummated happiness of His creatures. Whatever
God makes, He makes in His own likeness, more or less so according to the degree of being which
He imparts to the creature. And as whatever God does is like Him, and whatever God makes is
like Him, so whatever God says is like Him: His spoken word answers to His inward word and thought.

5. God's sanctity is in His being true to Himself. His veracity is part of His sanctity. He
cannot in His speech, or revelation of Himself, contradict what He really has in His mind,
without ceasing to be holy and being no longer God. But the sanctity of intellectual creatures
must be, like their every other pure perfection, modelled on the corresponding perfection of
their Maker. Holiness must mean truthfulness in man, for it means truthfulness in God. God's
words cannot be at variance with His thought, for God is essential holiness. Nor can man speak
otherwise than as he thinks without marring the attribute of holiness in himself, that is,
without doing wrong.

6. To speak against one's mind is an act falling upon undue matter. Words are naturally signs
of thoughts. Not that the words of any given language, as English or German, have any natural
connection with the thoughts that they express; but it is natural to men, natural to every
intellectual being, to have some mode of expressing his thoughts by outward signs; and once
a sign is recognized as the sign of a certain thought, so long as the convention remains unrepealed,
whoever uses that sign, not having in his mind at the time the thought which that sign signifies,
but the contradictory to it, is doing violence to the natural bond between sign and thing signified,
by putting forward the former where the latter is not behind it. And since the due and proper
matter for the sign to be put upon is the presence in the mind of the thought signified, to
make that sign where the opposite thought is present, is, as St. Thomas says, an act falling
upon undue matter. The peculiar spiritual and moral inviolability of the connection between
word and thought, appears from the consideration which we have urged of the archetype holiness
of God. This then is the real, intrinsic, primary, and inseparable reason, why lying, or speech
in contradiction with the thought of the speaker, is everywhere and always wrong.

7. Grotius (De Jure Belli et Pacis, I. iii., c. i., nn. 11, seq.) argues a lie to be wrong
solely inasmuch as it is "in conflict with the existing and abiding right of the person spoken
to." If right here means something binding in commutative justice (Ethics, c. v., s. ix., n.
6, p. 106), we deny that any such right is violated by what is called a simple lie, that is,
an untruth not in the matter of religion, and not affecting the character, property, or personal
well-being of our neighbour. For if a simple lie is a violation of commutative justice, it
carries the obligation of restitution (Ethics, c. v., s. ix., n. 6, p. 107); that is, we are
bound to tell the truth afterwards to the person that we have lied to, even in a matter of
no practical consequence,--quite a new burden on the consciences of men. Again, if the bar
to lying were the hearer's right, whoever had dominion over another's right might lie to him;
the parent might lie to the child, the State to the citizen, and God to man, a doctrine which,
away from its application to God, Grotius accepts. Lastly since volenti non fit injuria, the
presumed willingness of the listener would license all manner of officious and jocose lies,
as the authority of the speaker would sanction official fabrications. Thus, what with official,
and what with officious speeches, it would be very hard to believe anybody.

8. By our rejection of Grotius' theory we are enabled to answer Milton's question: "If all
killing be not murder, nor all taking from another, stealing why must all untruths be lies?"
Because, we say, killing and taking away of goods deal with rights which are not absolute and
unlimited, but become in certain situations void; whereas an untruth turns, not on another's
right, but on the exigency of the speaker's own rational nature calling for the concord of
the word signifying with the thought signified, and this exigency never varies. Untruth and
falsehood are but polite names for a lie.

Readings.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 110, art. 3, in corp., ad. 4; ib., q. 109, art. 2, 3, in corp.;
Ar., Eth., IV., vii.; Plato, Rep., 382, 389 B, C.

SECTION III.--Of the keeping of Secrets without Lying.

1. There are natural secrets, secrets of promise, and secrets of trust. A natural secret is
all a man's own private history, which he would not have made public, as also all that he discovers
by his own observation of the similar private history of his neighbours. If a man finds out
something about his neighbour, and, after he has found it out for himself, the neighbour gets
him to promise not to publish it, that is a secret of promise. Lastly, if one man comes to
another, as to a lawyer, or a surgeon, for professional advice, or simply to a friend for moral
counsel, and in order thereto imparts to him some of his natural secrets, those secrets, as
they are received and held by the person consulted, are called secrets of trust. This latter
kind of secret is privileged above the other two. A natural secret, and also a secret of promise,
must be delivered up on the demand of an authority competent to inquire in the department where
the secret lies. But a secret of trust is to be given up to no inquirer, but to be kept against
all who endeavour to come by it, except where the matter bodes mischief and wrong to a third
party, or to the community, and where at the same time the owner of the secret cannot be persuaded
to desist from the wrong. This proviso does not hold for the seal of confession, which is absolutely
inviolable.

2. The main art of keeping a secret is, not to talk about it. If a man is asked an awkward
question, and sees no alternative but to let out or lie, it is usually his own fault for having
introduced the subject, or encouraged the questioner up to that point. A wise man lets drop
in time topics which he is unwilling to have pressed. But there are unconscionable people who
will not be put off, and who, either out of malice or out of stupidity, ply you with questions
against all rules of good breeding. This direct assault may sometimes be retaliated, and a
rude question met by a curt answer. But such a reply is not always prudent or charitable, and
would not unfrequently convey the very information required. Silence would serve no better,
for silence gives consent, and is eloquent at times. There is nothing left for it in such cases
but to lock your secret up, as it were, in a separate compartment of your breast, and answer
according to the remainder of your information, which is not secret, private, and confidential.
This looks very much like lying, but it is not lying, it is speaking the truth under a broad
mental reservation.

3. Mental reservation is an act of the mind, limiting the spoken phrase so that it may not
bear the full sense which at first hearing it seems to bear. The reservation, or limitation
of the spoken sense, is said to be broad or pure, according as it is, or is not, indicated
externally. A pure mental reservation, where the speaker uses words in a limited meaning, without
giving any outward clue to the limitation, is in nothing different from a lie, and is wrong
as a lie is always wrong. A good instance is Archbishop Cranmer's oath of fealty to the Pope,
he having previously protested--of course out of hearing of the Pope or the Pope's representative--that
he meant that oath in no way to preclude him from labouring at the reformation of the Church
in England, that is, doing all the evil work which Henry VIII. had marked out for him in the
teeth of the Roman Bishop. [Footnote 18] Even broad mental reservation is permissible only
as a last resource, when no other means are available for the preservation of some secret which
one has a duty to others, or grave reason of one's own, to keep.

[Footnote 18: Strype's Cranmer, i., pp 27, 28; ib., ii., Appendices 5, 6; ed. Oxon., 1812.]

4. The point to make out is that no lie is told. To speak under a reservation is a lie, if
it is speech against the mind of the speaker. But how can it be aught else than speech against
the mind, when the heart thinks yea, and the tongue says nay? We answer that, in the case contemplated,
the thought of the heart is, secrets apart, nay; and though the word on the lips is nay simply,
yet we must not take that word as the whole locution, but as a mere text, to which the situation
of the speaker and the matter spoken of form a commentary, legible to any observant eye. The
word is an annotated text; nay in the body of the page, with secrets apart inscribed in the
margin. The adequate utterance is the whole page, text and gloss together; that speech answers
to the thought in the speaker's mind; therefore it is no lie.

5. The essential requisite is that the gloss, secrets apart, be not written in the speaker's
private mind, but be outwardly and publicly manifest in the matter spoken of, which must be
one that clearly admits of secrets, and in the circumstances of the speaker, who is driven
into a corner, and obliged to answer something, and yet cannot by any prudent man be expected
to answer out of the fulness of all the knowledge that he may possibly possess.

6. Nor let it be said that all confidence in the replies given to our questions is hereby destroyed.
For most questions are in matters that do not admit of a secret. There the qualification, secrets
apart, which may be said to attach to all answers, has no value and meaning: it is mathematically
equal to zero; and we may take the answer in full assurance just as it reaches our ear. Again,
when a person volunteers a statement unasked, he cannot be supposed to be reserving secrets.
But when delicate subjects are touched on, and inquiry is pushed to extremity by an unauthorized
questioner, secrets apart is the handwriting on the wall.

7. But why is not this qualification spoken out with the tongue? Sometimes it safely may be,
and then it should be so added. But, as the addition is unusual, our taking the trouble to
express it would often certify to the inquirer that his suspicions were correct, though we
ought not to tell him so. Our aim then must be to give such an oral answer as we should return,
were the suspicion quite unfounded. Our questioner, if he is a prudent man, will piece out
our phrase with the addition, secrets apart; and he will understand that he can get nothing
out of us either way, which is exactly what we wish him to understand. His unauthorized interrogatory
has been met by speech that amounts to silence, arguing indeed our prudence, but leaving him
as wise as before on the forbidden topic. If he is a thoughtless man, he is deceived, not by
any intention or election of ours, but indirectly so far as we are concerned, an incidental
deception which he has brought on himself.

8. This then is a convention that obtains, not of positive institution, but dictated by nature
herself, that on a matter which admits of being secret, any answer elicited under stress of
necessity must be so construed, as that any grave secret that may be touched, not being morally
in the power of the respondent to reveal, shall be taken to remain reserved.

9. We may therefore sometimes avoid seeming to know what we know, or to be what we are. But
we may never of our own proper motion step forward and court observation as being what we are
not, or knowing what is against or beyond our knowledge. We may dissemble occasionally, but
not simulate. The dissembler of a secret wishes for obscurity and silence: he wants to have
the eyes of men turned away from him and their curiosity unroused. Whatever he says or does
is to divest the idea of there being anything particularly interesting about him. But he who
simulates--call him pretender, impostor, or quack--is nothing, if not taken notice of. The
public gaze is his sunshine: obscurity gives him a deadly chill. His ambition is to appear
out of the ordinary, being really quite within common lines: the dissembler is in some respect
beyond the ordinary, but wishes not to show himself otherwise than as an ordinary mortal with
ordinary knowledge. The pretender is on the offensive, challenging attention: the dissembler
is on his defence against notice. "Simulation," says Bolingbroke, "is a stiletto, not only
an offensive but an unlawful weapon, and the use of it may be rarely, very rarely, excused,
but never justified. Dissimulation is a shield, as secrecy is armour: and it is no more possible
to preserve secrecy in the administration of public affairs without dissimulation than it is
to succeed in it without secrecy." (Idea of a Patriot King.)

Readings.--De Lugo, De Just. et Jure, 14, nn. 135, 141, 142; The Month for March, 1883; Lockhart's
Life of Scott, v., 26.

CHAPTER IV.

OF CHARITY.

1. It is the difference between sensible apprehension and intellectual knowledge, that the
former seizes upon a particular object and it only, as this sweet: the latter takes its object
as the type of a class of similars, this and the like of this, this sweet as one of the class
of sweet things. In like manner the love of passion, which is the love of sense, regards one
sole object. Titius is in love with Bertha alone, not with woman in general. But an intellectual
love is the love of a type of beauty or goodness, of this object and of others as they approach
in likeness to it. Whoever loves William from an intellectual appreciation of his patriotism,
in loving him loves all patriots. Every animal loves itself with a brute, sensible love, not
a love to find fault with, nor yet a noble and exalted sentiment--a love purely self-regarding,
quite apart from the good that is in self, but embracing self simply as self, and self alone.
This is the first love of self even in man. Intellectual self-complacence overflows from self
to similars. It is not self-love, it is love of the race, "the milk of human kindness," philanthropy.

2. But man is a disappointing creature, after all a mere "quintessence of dust," unless he
can rise above himself by relation with some superhuman being, and make his final fortune in
some better region than this world. Reason requires that we love ourselves, and love our fellow-men,
for and in order to the development of the highest gifts and capacities that are in us. These
are gifts and capacities divine, preparing us to find our everlasting happiness in God. (Ethics,
c. ii., s. iv., n. 2, p. 22.) The love that we bear to ourselves and our neighbour, in view
of our coming from God and going to God, is called the love of charity. Charity differs from
philanthropy in looking beyond the present life, and above creatures. A materialist and atheist
may possess philanthropy, but not charity.

3. Beside the twofold love, animal and intellectual, which we bear ourselves, we may also and
should love ourselves with the love of charity, seeing God's gifts in us, and desiring the
perfection of those gifts in a happy eternity occupied with God. The charity which we should
thus bear to ourselves is the model of that which we owe to our neighbour, whom we are to love
as ourselves, not with the same intensity, but with the same quality of love, wishing him the
good, human and divine, temporal and eternal, which we wish for ourselves, though not so earnestly
as we wish it for ourselves. Our love for ourselves is stronger than for our neighbour: for,
if love comes of likeness, much more does it come of identity. But by reason of the vast preponderance
of the good that is rational and eternal over that which is material and temporal; and also
by reason of the principle laid down by St. Thomas, that "as to the sharing together of (eternal)
happiness, greater is the union of our neighbour's soul with our soul than even of our own
body with our soul" (2a 2a, q. 26, art. 5, ad 2),--we are bound to love our neighbour's eternal
good better than our own temporal good, and in certain special conjunctures to sacrifice the
latter to the former. We have no duty and obligation of loving his temporal good above our
own temporal good. But it is often matter of commendation and counsel to sacrifice our temporal
interest to our neighbour's. This sacrifice is no breach of the order of charity, beginning
at home: since what is resigned of material and perishable profit is gained in moral perfection.
Especially commendable is the surrender of private good for the good of the community. Charity,
or philanthropy, taking this form, bears the name of patriotism and public spirit.

4. Charity, like material forces, acts in a certain inverse ratio to the distance of the object.
Other considerations being equal, the nearer, the dearer. Nay, nearness and likeness to ourselves
goes further than goodness in winning our love. This is natural, and charity presupposes nature,
and follows its order. As we have more charity for ourselves than for others whom we acknowledge
to be better men, so likewise for our kinsmen and intimate friends. We may put the matter thus.
Charity consists in wishing and seeking to procure for a person the good that leads to God.
One element is the intensity and eagerness of this wish and search; another is the greatness
of the good wished. Now we wish those who are better than ourselves to be rewarded according
to their deserts with a greater good than ourselves: but this wish is but lukewarm compared
to the intensity of our desire that we and our friends with us may attain to all the good that
we are capable of.

5. The Christian precept to love our enemies is merely the enforcement of a natural obligation.
The obligation stands almost self-evident as soon as it is cleared of misunderstanding. The
love of enemies is not based on the ground of their being hostile and annoying us. It would
be highly unnatural to love them on that score. Nor are we in duty bound to show to one who
hates us special offices of friendship, except we find him in extreme need, e.g., dying in
a ditch, as the Good Samaritan found the Jew: otherwise it is enough that we be animated towards
him with that common charity, which we bear to other men who are not further off from us than
he is. If Lucius offend Titius, there being no other tie between them than the tie of friendship,
Titius may, where the offence is very outrageous, henceforth treat Lucius as a stranger. The
question of scandal has sometimes to be regarded, but that is an extrinsic circumstance to
our present subject. Nor are we concerned to say what is the better thing for Titius to do,
but to say all that he is bound to do. He is bound to render himself as void of wilful malice,
and as full of ordinary courtesy and good feeling towards Lucius, as he is in the case of Sempronius,
a man whom he never heard of till this day. But if there be some other antecedent tie between
them besides the tie of friendship,--for instance, if Titius and Lucius are two monks of the
same convent, two officers in the same regiment, two partners of one firm,--Titius is no longer
justified in treating Lucius as a stranger. He must regard him with ordinary charity; now ordinary
charity between two brother-officers, or two fellow-monks, is not the same as between men who
have no such tie one with another. This is why we laid it down that we must be animated towards
him who has offended us "with that common charity, which we bear to other men who are not further
off from us than he is."

6. This then being the exact obligation, the same is easily established. We must love our enemies,
because the reasons given for loving all mankind (nn. 1, 2) are not vitiated by this or that
man having treated us shamefully. The human nature in him still remains good actually, and
still more, potentially; and if good and hopeful, to that extent also lovable. Nor is this
lovableness a mere separable accident. Rather, it is the offensive behaviour of the man that
is the separable accident. At that we may well be disgusted and abominate it. But the underlying
substance remains good, not incurably tainted with that vicious accident. We must attend to
the substance, which is, rather than to the accident, which happens, and may be abolished.
Let us endeavour to abolish the accident, still so that we respect and regard the substance.
Let us seek for redress under the guidance of prudence according to the circumstances of the
case, but not for the ruin of our enemy. Let us not render evil for evil, but even in exacting
a just satisfaction, make it of the nature of that compensatory evil, which is by consequence
good. Let us be angry with our enemy, but sin not by hating him. (Ethics, c. iv., s. iv., n.
3.) We may seek satisfaction for any wrong we have suffered: in grave cases we must have recourse
to the State for that: but the sin, if any, of our adversary is not our concern to punish or
to seek vengeance for. (Ethics, c. ix., s. iii., n. 4.)

7. The same reasoning holds good even of public enemies, tyrants, persecutors, anarchists,
assassins. We must include them in our prayers, wish for their conversion, and, though their
case appear hopeless, we must not damn them before their time. If we found one of them dying
by accident of cold or asphyxia, we should be bound by a grave obligation to use all ordinary
efforts to bring him round and recover him. Still we may use our best efforts to bring them
to justice, even to capital punishment, according to the procedure of public law established
in the country, and not otherwise. We may also with an inefficacious desire, that is, a desire
that finds no vent in action, desire their death under an alternative thus, that either living
they may cease to do evil, or that God may call them away to where the wicked cease from troubling.
But we must not desire, nor be glad of, their death by any unlawful means, for that were to
sympathise with crime.

8. Real charity shows itself in action, succouring a neighbour in need, which is sometimes
a counsel, sometimes a duty. It is an axiom, that charity is not binding with grave inconvenience.
The gravity of the inconvenience in prospect must be measured against the urgency of the need
to be relieved. A neighbour is technically said to be in extreme need, when he is in imminent
peril of deadly evil to soul or body, and is unable to help himself. We are under severe obligation
of charity to succour any whom we find in this plight.

9. By charity we give of our own to another: by justice we render to another that which is
his. Charity neglected calls for no restitution, when the need that required it is past away:
justice violated cries for restitution, for what we have taken away from our neighbour remains
still his. The obligations of justice are negative, except for the fulfilment of contracts:
obligations in charity are largely positive. (Ethics, c. v., s. ix., n. 7, p. 108.)

Readings.--C. Gent., III., 117; 2a 2a, q. 26, art. 4; ib., art. 7; ib., art. 8; 2a 2a, q. 25,
art. 8; ib., art. 9; ib., art. 6; Ferrier, Greek Philosophy, Socrates, nn. 13, 26, 27, 29.
(Remains, vol. i., pp. 227, seq.)

CHAPTER V.

OF RIGHTS.

SECTION I.--Of the definition and division of Rights.

1. A right is that in virtue of which a person calls anything his own. More elaborately, a
right is a moral power residing in a person, in virtue whereof he refers to himself as well
his own actions as also other things, which stand referred to him in preference to other persons.
A right is a moral power, as distinguished from physical force or ability. It resides in a
person, a being whom we call autocentric, as distinguished from a thing, which is heterocentric.
(c. ii., s. i., n. 2, p. 203.) A person is his own, a thing is another's. Every intellectual
nature is a person except the Humanity of Christ, an exception which does not concern us here.
To the Creator all created personalities are as things, but that again is not our concern in
this place, where we treat of the relations between man and man. It will have to be noted hereafter
with great emphasis, that the individual man is a person, not a thing and chattel, in relation
to the State, and consequently has rights against the State.

2. Every intellectual being has the attribute of reflex consciousness. It may turn its regard
in upon itself, and call itself me, and its powers and activities mine. It certainly has the
physical ability of acting for self, and using its powers consciously for its own ends. Does
this physical ability represent also a moral power? Is the agent justified in exercising it?
and are his fellows under a moral obligation of justice to leave him free to exercise it? (Ethics,
c. vi., s. i., nn. 5, 6, p. 111.) We have seen that morality consists in acting up to one's
own intellectual or rational nature. Since then the calling oneself me, and one's power mine,
and the using those powers for purposes which one's reason approves, is the distinguishing
feature of an intellectual, or rational, and personal being, that being is morally warranted
so to act. He calls himself his own, and his powers his own, and they are his own by the very
fact of his calling them so by a natural act. And, as justice is to give to another his own,
others are bound in justice to leave him free to dispose of himself and his powers, at least
within certain limits. But this would be for man a barren freedom, were he not empowered to
lay hold of and make his own some things, nay many things, outside of himself, for man is not
self-sufficient, but has many natural necessities, and many psychical cravings to boot. Therefore
man's right of preference extends, not only to his own actions, but also to external things,
which he may make his own to act upon.

3. Rights are either connatural or acquired. Connatural rights spring from the very being of
a man, as he is a person. Such are the rights to life, to honour, to personal liberty--that
is, freedom to go where you will--to civil liberty--that is, not being a slave--also the rights
to marry and to acquire property. Acquired rights spring from some deed of man, annexing something
to his personality. Such are the rights to property, duly entered upon, to reputation, to the
political franchise, and all rights that come by contract. Acquired rights may descend to heirs.

4. Rights again are alienable and inalienable, which division does not coincide with the preceding.
Those rights are inalienable, shorn of which a man cannot work out his last end. Some rights
are thus permanently and universally inalienable, as the right to life: others are so occasionally
and for particular persons.

5. The correlative of right is duty: so that, wherever one man has a right, his neighbours
have a duty in justice to leave him free to exercise the same. But the converse is not true,
that wherever one man has a duty towards another, that other has a right to its performance,
for there are duties of charity, which do not impart a corresponding right, but only a claim.
Duties that correspond to rights are called by English moralists perfect duties. Duties answering
to claims only they call imperfect.

6. Of duties, some are positive, which bind always, not for always, as the duty of adoring
God. We are always bound to adore, we are not bound to be always adoring. Other duties are
negative, and bind always, for always, as the duties of sobriety and chastity. The former class
of duties we may more easily be excused from, because they can be deferred, and it is at times
morally impossible to take them up. But negative duty, as Mr. Gladstone has finely said, "rises
with us in the morning, and goes to rest with us at night: it is the shadow that follows us
wheresoever we go, and only leaves us when we leave the light of life."

7. Only a person has rights, as appears by the definition of a right. Again, only persons have
duties, for they only have free will. No one has duties without rights, and no man has rights
without duties. Infants and idiots, in whom the use of reason is impeded, having notwithstanding
rights, are said to have duties also radically. Hence it is wrong to make an idiot commit what
is in him a material breach of some negative duty, as of temperance. Positive duties he is
excused from.

8. Some have taught that all human rights are consequences of duties; a man having first a
duty to perform, and then a right to the means necessary to its performance. But this doctrine
appears more pious than probable. For, first, the type and example of sovereign right, God,
has no duties. (Ethics, c. vi., s. ii., n. 4, p. 130.) Then again, a man may have a right conjoined
with a duty--not of justice, of course, but of some other virtue, as of religion--not to use
that right. But if rights were consequent upon duties, the right would cease in such a case;
and to pretend to exercise it would be a sin against justice, which it is not.

SECTION II.--Of the so-called Rights of Animals.

1. Brute beasts, not having understanding and therefore not being persons, cannot have any
rights. The conclusion is clear. They are not autocentric. They are of the number of things,
which are another's: they are chattels, or cattle. We have no duties to them,--not of justice,
as is shown; not of religion, unless we are to worship them, like the Egyptians of old; not
of fidelity, for they are incapable of accepting a promise. The only question can be of charity.
Have we duties of charity to the lower animals? Charity is an extension of the love of ourselves
to beings like ourselves, in view of our common nature and our common destiny to happiness
in God. (c. iv., nn. 1, 2, p. 239.) It is not for the present treatise to prove, but to assume,
that our nature is not common to brute beasts but immeasurably above theirs, higher indeed
above them than we are below the angels. Man alone speaks, man alone hopes to contemplate for
ever, if not--in the natural order--the Face of his Father in Heaven, at least the reflected
brightness of that Divine Face. (Ethics, c. ii., s. iv., nn. 3, 4.) We have then no duties
of charity, nor duties of any kind, to the lower animals, as neither to stocks and stones.

2. Still we have duties about stones, not to fling them through our neighbour's windows; and
we have duties about brute beasts. We must not harm them, when they are our neighbour's property.
We must not break out into paroxysms of rage and impatience in dealing with them. It is a miserable
way of showing off human pre-eminence, to torture poor brutes in malevolent glee at their pain
and helplessness. Such wanton cruelty is especially deplorable, because it disposes the perpetrators
to be cruel also to men. As St. Thomas says (1a 2a, q. 102, art. 6, ad 8):

"Because the passion of pity arises from the afflictions of others, and it happens even to
brute animals to feel pain, the affection of pity may arise in man even about the afflictions
of animals. Obviously, whoever is practised in the affection of pity towards animals, is thereby
more disposed to the affection of pity towards men: whence it is said in Proverbs xii. And
therefore He forbade them to seethe the kid in the mother's milk (Deut. xiv. 21), or to muzzle
the treading ox (Deut. xxv. 4), or to kill the old bird with the young." (Deut. xxii. 6, 7.)

3. It is wanton cruelty to vex and annoy a brute beast for sport. This is unworthy of man,
and disposes him to inhumanity towards his own species. Yet the converse is not to be relied
on: there have been cruel men who have made pets of the brute creation. But there is no shadow
of evil resting on the practice of causing pain to brutes in sport, where the pain is not the
sport itself, but an incidental concomitant of it. Much more in all that conduces to the sustenance
of man may we give pain to brutes, as also in the pursuit of science. Nor are we bound to any
anxious care to make this pain as little as may be. Brutes are as things in our regard: so
far as they are useful to us, they exist for us, not for themselves; and we do right in using
them unsparingly for our need and convenience, though not for our wantonness. If then any special
case of pain to a brute creature be a fact of considerable value for observation in biological
science or the medical art, no reasoned considerations of morality can stand in the way of
man making the experiment, yet so that even in the quest of science he be mindful of mercy.

4. Altogether it will be found that a sedulous observance of the rights and claims of other
men, a mastery over one's own passions, and a reverence for the Creator, give the best assurance
of a wise and humane treatment of the lower animals. But to preach kindness to brutes as a
primary obligation, and capital point of amendment in the conversion of a sinner, is to treat
the symptom and leave unchecked the inward malady.

Reading.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 25, art. 3.

SECTION III.--Of the right to Honour and Reputation.

1. Honour is the attestation of another's excellence. Reputation is the opinion of many touching
another's life and conduct. Honour is paid to a man to his face, whereas his reputation is
bruited behind his back. Honour is taken away by insult, reputation by detraction. If the detraction
involve a falsehood, it is called calumny or slander. The name backbiting, given to detraction,
points to the absence of the person spoken of. But no one meets with an insult except where
he is present, either in person or by his representative.

2. Both honour and reputation are goods that a man can call his own, and has a right to, but
on different titles. Honour, some honour at least, appertains to a man simply for his being
a man: reputation is won by deeds. Honour is primarily a connatural right: reputation is acquired.
An entire stranger has no reputation, but a certain honour is his due to start with.

3. As there is a right to honour and a right to reputation, so insult and detraction are sins,
not against charity, but against commutative justice, calling for restitution. (Ethics, c.
v., s. ix., n. 6, p. 106.) We must tender an apology for an insult, and labour to restore the
good name that our detracting tongue has taken away.

4. Calumny is a double sin, one sin against truth, and another sin, the heavier of the two,
against justice. If the blackening tale be true, the first sin is absent, but the second is
there. The truth of the story is no justification for our publishing it. Though it is wrong
to lie, it is not always right to blurt out the truth, especially when we are not asked for
it. There are unprofitable disclosures, unseasonable, harmful, and wrongful. But, it will be
said, does not a man forego his right to reputation by doing the evil that belies his fair
fame? No, his right remains, unless the evil that he does, either of its own proper working
or by the scandal that it gives, be subversive of social order. If he has committed a crime
against society, he is to be denounced to the authorities who have charge of society: they
will judge him, and, finding him guilty, they will punish him and brand him with infamy. If,
again, he does evil, though not immediately against society, yet in the face of society and
before the sun; he shocks the public conscience and rends his own reputation. But the evil
private and proper to himself that any man works in secret, is not society's care, nor affects
his social standing, nor brings any rightful diminution to his good name. If all our secret
and personal offences are liable to be made public by any observer, which of us shall abide
it? Our character is our public character; and that is not forfeit except for some manner of
public sin.

5. Suppose a veteran, long retired, has made a name for military prowess by boasting of battles
wherein he never came into danger, is the one old comrade who remembers him for a skulker and
a runaway, justified in showing him up? No, for that reputation, however mendaciously got together,
is still truly a good possession: it is not a fruit of injustice, therefore it is no matter
of restitution: nor is it any instrument of injustice, which the holder is bound to drop: thus,
as he is not bound to forego it, now that he has got it, so his neighbour may not rightfully
take it from him.

Reading.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 73, art. 1.

SECTION IV.--Of Contracts.

1. A contract is a bargain productive of an obligation of commutative justice in each of the
contracting parties. A bargain is a consent of two wills to the same object. Thus a promise,
before it is accepted, is not a bargain. But even after acceptance a promise is not a contract,
for the promiser may not choose to bind himself in justice, but only in good faith, while the
promisee is under no obligation whatever.

2. There are such things as implicit contracts, attached to the bearing of certain offices,
whereby a man becomes his brother's keeper. The liability contracted is limited by the nature
of the office: thus a physician is officially bound in justice as to his patient's pulse, but
not officially as to his purse. Where there is no explicit contract, the duties which the subjects
of a person's official care have towards him are not duties of commutative justice. Thus these
implicit contracts are not strictly contracts, as failing to carry a full reciprocity.

3. Contracts are either consensual or real, according as they are either complete by the mere
consent of the parties, or further require that something should change hands and pass from
one to the other. What contracts are consensual, and what real, depends chiefly on positive
law. No natural law can tell whether buying and selling, for instance, be a consensual or a
real contract. The interest of this particular case is when the goods are lost in transmission:
then whichever of the two parties at the time be determined to be the owner, apart from culpable
negligence or contrary agreement of the sender, he bears the loss, on the principle, res perit
domino.

4. Contracts are otherwise divided as onerous and gratuitous. In an onerous contract either
party renders some advantage in return for the advantage that he receives, as when Titius hires
the horse of Caius. In a gratuitous contract all the advantage is on one side, as when Titius
does not hire but borrows a horse. The Roman lawyers further distinguish contracts, somewhat
humorously, into contracts with names and contracts without names, or nominate and innominate,
as anatomists name a certain bone the innominate bone, and a certain artery the innominate
artery. Innominate contracts are reckoned four: I give on the terms of your giving, otherwise
than as buying and selling,--to some forms of this there are English names, as exchange and
barter: I do on the terms of your doing: I do on the terms of your giving: I give on the terms
of your doing.

Readings.--De Lugo, De Just. et Jure, 22, nn. 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 16, 17. For buying and selling
and the frauds incident thereto, Paley, Moral Philosophy, bk. iii., p. 1, c. vii.

SECTION V.--Of Usury.

1. We must distinguish use value and market value. The use value of an article of property
is the esteem which the owner has of it from every other point of view except as a thing to
sell. Thus a man values his overcoat on a journey as a protection from cold and rain. A book
is valued that was held in the dying hand of a parent. This is use value. The market value
of an article is the estimate of society, fixing the rate of exchange between that and other
articles, so much of one for so much of another, e.g., between mahogany and cedar wood, considered
as things to sell.

2. Answering to this twofold value is a twofold exchange, private exchange, which regards use
value; and commercial exchange, which is founded on market value. If I part with my watch to
a sailor for carrying me across an arm of the sea where there is no public ferry, that is private
exchange. If I pay the ordinary fare where there is a public ferry, that is commercial exchange.

3. Private exchange begins in the need of at least one of the contracting parties. It is an
act of charity in the other party to accommodate him by offering the thing needed. If the offer
is made otherwise than as a gift, and is accepted, he who avails himself of it is bound in
justice to see that the afforder of the accommodation is compensated for the loss that he suffers
in affording it. Thus far the recipient is bound in justice, and no further in that virtue.
However wholesome or profitable the thing be to him that gets it, the supplier cannot charge
for that but only for the loss that he himself suffers, or the gain that he foregoes, in handing
the thing over, or the pains that he takes, or the hardship that he endures, or the risk that
he runs, in rendering the service desired. If all the labour to be undergone, or damage incurred,
or risk encountered, by the sailor who goes about by private bargain to be my ferryman, is
fairly met by the remuneration of a thirty-shilling watch, he has no right to stipulate for
any more, not though the passage that he gives me sets me on the way to a throne. The peculiar
advantage that I have in prospect does not come out of him, but out of myself. He must not
pretend to sell what is not his, what attaches, not to him, but to me. He can only sell his
own loss, risk, pains and labour. At the same time, if I have any gentlemanly or generous feeling
in me, I shall be forward to bestow extra remuneration on one who has rendered me so timely
a service: but this is matter of my gratitude, not of his right and claim in justice. Gratitude
must not be put into the bill. And this much of private exchange.

4. Commercial exchange is conducted according to market value. Apart from dire necessity--and
one in dire necessity is not fit to enter into commercial exchanges--the rule is, that a seller
may always ask the market value of his article, however much that may be above what the thing
cost him, or the use value which it bears to him. Thus, if one finds in his garden a rare Roman
coin--so far as his tastes go, a paltry bit of metal--he may sell it for whatever price numismatists
will offer: whereas, if there were no market for coins, but only one individual who doted on
such things, the finder could make no profit out of that individual, the coin having neither
market value with the community, nor use value in the eyes of the finder.

5. As there is a twofold value, and a twofold exchange, so a twofold character is impressed
on the great instrument of exchange, money. Money, in one character, is an instrument of private
exchange: in its other character, to mercantile men more familiar, it is an instrument of commercial
exchange. In the one, it represents use value to the particular owner, more or less to him
than it would be to some other owner: in the other, it represents market value, the same to
all at the same time.

6. Leo X. in the Fifth Council of Lateran, 1515, ruled that--"usury is properly interpreted
to be the attempt to draw profit and increment, without labour, without cost, and without risk,
out of the use of a thing that does not fructify." In 1745 Benedict XIV. wrote in the same
sense to the Bishops of Italy: "That kind of sin which is called usury, and which has its proper
seat and place in the contract of mutuum, consists in turning that contract, which of its own
nature requires the amount returned exactly to balance the amount received, into a ground for
demanding a return in excess of the amount received." Mutuum, be it observed, is a loan for
a definite period, of some article, the use of which lies in its consumption, as matches, fuel,
food, and, in one respect, money. We shall prove this to be properly a gratuitous contract.
(s. iv., n. 4, p. 254.)

7. Usury then is no mere taking of exorbitant interest. There is no question of more or less,
but it is usury to take any interest at all upon the loan of a piece of property, which

(a) is of no use except to be used up, spent, consumed:

(b) is not wanted for the lender's own consumption within the period of the loan:

(c) is lent upon security that obviates risk:

(d) is so lent that the lender foregoes no occasion of lawful gain by lending it.

8. When all these four conditions are fulfilled, and yet interest is exacted upon a loan, such
interest is usurious and unjust. And why? Simply by reason of the principle that we laid down
before, speaking of private exchange (n. 3), a principle that is thus stated by St. Thomas:

"If one party is much benefited by the commodity which he receives of the other, while the
other, the seller, is not a loser by going without the article, no extra price must be put
on. The reason is, because the benefit that accrues to one party is not from the seller, but
from the condition of the buyer. Now no one ought to sell to another that which is not his,
though he may sell the loss that he suffers. He, however, who is much benefited by the commodity
he receives of another, may spontaneously bestow some extra recompense on the seller: that
is the part of one who has the feelings of a gentleman." (2a. 2a, q. 77, art. 1, in corp.)

9. St. Thomas speaks of sales, but the principle applies equally to loans. It is upon loans
of money that interest is commonly taken, and of money-loans we speak. Clearly, according to
the doctrine stated, the lender can claim the compensation of interest, if he has to pinch
himself in order to lend, or lends at a notable risk. He is selling his own loss,--or risk,
which is loss once removed. But supposing he has other monies in hand, and the security is
good, and he has enough still left for all domestic needs, and for all luxuries that he cares
to indulge in,--moreover he has nothing absolutely to do with his money, in the event of his
not lending it, but to hoard it up in his strong box, and wait long months till he has occasion
to use it: in that case, if he lends it he will be no worse off on the day that he gets it
back, no worse off in the time while it is away, than if it had never left his coffers. Such
is the contract of mutuum, shorn of all accidental attendant circumstances, a contract, which
"of its own nature," as Benedict XIV. says, that is, apart from circumstances, "requires the
amount returned exactly to balance the amount received." Not though the borrower has profited
of the loan to gain kingdoms, is any further return in strict justice to be exacted of him
on that precise account.

10. But now an altered case. Suppose land is purchaseable, and it is proposed to stock a farm
with cattle, and rear them, and convey them to a large town where there is a brisk demand for
meat--the supposition is not always verified, nor any supposition like it, but suppose it verified
in some one case--then, though the lender has other monies in hand for the needs of his household,
and the security is good, yet the money is not so lent as that he foregoes no occasion of lawful
gain by lending it. He foregoes the purchase of land and farm stock, or at least delays it,
and delay is loss where profit is perennial. On that score of gain forfeited he may exact interest
on the money that he lends, which interest will be no usury. The title of interest here given
is recognized by divines as lucrum cessans, "interruption of profit." The interest is taken,
so far as it goes upon a lawful title, not upon the fact of the borrower's profit--that is
irrelevant--but upon the profit that the lender might have made, had he kept the money in hand.

11. This latter case (n. 10) represents that putting of money out to interest, which is an
essential feature of modern commerce. The former case (n. 9) is the aspect that money-lending
commonly bore in the Middle Ages. In those days land was hard to buy, agriculture backward,
roads bad, seas unnavigable, carrying-trade precarious, messages slow, raids and marauders
frequent, population sparse, commerce confined to a few centres, mines unworked, manufactures
mostly domestic, capital yet unformed. Men kept their money in their cellars, or deposited
it for safety in religious houses: whence the stories of treasure-trove belonging to those
days. They took out the coin as they wanted it to spend on housekeeping, or on war, or feasting.
It was very hard, next to impossible, to lay out money so as to make more money by it. Money
was in those days really barren--a resource for housekeeping, not for trade--a medium of private,
not of commercial exchange--a representative of use value, not of market value.

12. In our time, thanks to steam and electricity, the increase of population, and continued
peace, the whole world has become one trading community, representing now more, now less abundant
opportunities for the investment of money, and the conversion of it into other lucrative commodities.
Money consequently with us is not a mere medium of private exchange for the purposes of housekeeping:
it is a medium of commercial exchange. It represents, not use value, but market value. To be
a thousand pounds out of pocket for a year means an opportunity of gain irretrievably lost,
gain that could have been made otherwise than by money-lending. Where this is so, and so far
as it is so, the lender may without violation of justice point to lucrum cessans, gain lost,
and arrange beforehand with the borrower for being reimbursed with interest.

13. The transition from mediaeval housekeeping, with its use values and private exchange, to
the mercantile society of modern times, was not made in a day, nor went on everywhere at the
same rate. It was a growth of ages. In great cities commerce rapidly ripened, and was well
on towards maturity five centuries ago. Then the conditions that render interest lawful, and
mark it off from usury, readily came to obtain. But those centres were isolated. Like the centres
of ossification, which appear here and there in cartilage when it is being converted into bone,
they were separated one from another by large tracts remaining in the primitive condition.
Here you might have a great city, Hamburg or Genoa, an early type of commercial enterprise,
and, fifty miles inland, society was in its infancy, and the great city was as part of another
world. Hence the same transaction, as described by the letter of the law, might mean lawful
interest in the city, and usury out in the country--the two were so disconnected. In such a
situation the legislator has to choose between forbidding interest here and allowing usury
there; between restraining speculation and licensing oppression. The mediaeval legislator chose
the former alternative. Church and State together enacted a number of laws to restrain the
taking of interest, laws that, like the clothes of infancy, are not to be scorned as absurd
restrictions, merely because they are inapplicable now, and would not fit the modern growth
of nations. At this day the State has repealed those laws, and the Church has officially signified
that she no longer insists on them. Still she maintains dogmatically that there is such a sin
as usury, and what it is, as defined in the Fifth Council of Lateran.

Readings.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 77, art. 1; Ar., Pol., I., ix.; St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 77, art.
4; The Month for September, 1886; The Nineteenth Century for September, 1877, pp. 181, seq.

CHAPTER VI.

OF MARRIAGE.

SECTION I.--Of the Institution of Marriage.

1. Marriage is defined by the Canonists: the union of male and female, involving their living
together in undivided intercourse. In the present order of Providence, the marriage contract
between baptized persons is a sacrament, under the superintendence of the Church, the fertile
theme of canonists and theologians. As philosophers, we deal with marriage as it would be,
were there no sacraments, no Church, and no Incarnation, present or to come. This is marriage
in the order of pure nature.

2. It is natural to all animals to propagate their kind, natural therefore also to man; and
being natural, it is so far forth also a good thing, unless we are to say with the Manicheans,
that the whole of corporeal nature is an evil creation. Nay, so urgent is the natural appetite
here, that we must argue the existence, not of a mere permission, but of an exigency of nature,
and consequent command of God (Ethics, c. vi., s. ii., nn. 11, 12, p. 122), for the propagation
of the human species. Besides, there is in the individual the duty of self-preservation, therefore
likewise in the race. Again, the old cannot subsist at all without the support of the young,
nor lead a cheerful existence without their company. Imagine a world with no youth in it, a
winter without a spring!

3. There is this difference between self-preservation and the preservation of the race, that
if a man will not eat, none can eat for him; but if one man omit the propagation of his kind,
another can take it up. There are many things necessary for the good of mankind, which are
not to be done by every individual. Not all are to be soldiers, nor all builders, though houses
are needful, and sometimes war. Nor is it desirable that the human race should be multiplied
to its utmost capacity. It is enough here to mention without discussing the teaching of Malthus,
how population presses on the means of subsistence, the latter increasing in an arithmetical,
the former in a geometrical ratio. Without going the whole way with Malthus, modern economical
writers are commonly a little Malthusian, and shrink from giving to all and each of their species
the word to "increase and multiply."

4. But, it will be said, sickly and consumptive subjects, and still more those who have any
tendency to madness, may well be excused from having children; so too may they be excused whose
poverty cannot keep a family; excused too is the inveterate drunkard, and all habitual criminals,
by the principle of heredity, lest they transmit to posterity an evil bodily predisposition;
but the healthy and the virtuous, men sound of mind and limb, of life unspotted, and in circumstances
easy, the flower of the race,--none of these surely should omit to raise up others to wear
his lineaments: we want such men multiplied. I answer, on natural grounds alone: You may counsel,
but you cannot compel, either by positive law or ethical precept, any man or woman to seek
to have children. You surely will not breed men by selection, like cattle, as Plato proposed.
The union of the sexes, especially the married union, is an act to be of all others the most
entirely free, spontaneous, uncommanded, and unconstrained. It should be a union of intense
mutual love. But a man may not meet with any woman that he can love with passion; or, meeting
such, he may not be able to win her. Nor, considering the indeterminateness of points of health,
capacity, and character, could any certain list be drawn up of persons bound to have issue.
Thus the utmost that can be argued is a counsel in this direction, a counsel that mankind ordinarily
are ready enough to comply with. But if any one of seeming aptitude excuses himself on the
score of finding no partner to his liking, or of a desire to travel, or of study, or still
more, of devotion--and why should not a man, ever of natural piety, go out into solitude, like
St. Antony, to hold communion with his Maker?--all these excuses must be taken. It is lawful
then in the state of mere nature, upon any one of many sufficient grounds, to stand aside and
relinquish to your neighbour the privilege and responsibility of giving increase to the human
family.

5. But if it is no one individual's duty to propagate his kind, how is it that we have laid
down that there is such a duty? For the duty is incumbent upon them that alone can do it, and
it can only be done by individuals. The answer rests on a distinction between proximate and
remote duty. The propagation of the race is the remote duty of every individual, but at present
the proximate, duty of none. A remote duty is a duty not now pressing but which would have
to be performed in a certain contingency, which contingency happening, the duty becomes proximate.
If there appeared a danger of our race dying out, the survivors would be beholden, especially
those in power, to take steps for its continuance. Rewards might then be held out, like the
jus trium liberorum instituted at Rome by Augustus; and if necessary, penalties inflicted on
celibacy. In this one extreme case the matrimonial union might be made matter of legal constraint.
But when will such constraint become necessary?

6. The continuance of the human race must be wrought out by man and woman standing in that
abiding and exclusive relation to one another, which constitutes the state of marriage. Nature
abhors promiscuity, or free love. It is the delight of writers who use, perhaps abuse, Darwin's
name, to picture primitive mankind as all living in this infrabestial state. But "the state
supposed is suicidal, and instead of allowing the expansion of the human race, would have produced
infertility, and probably disease, and at best only allowed the existing numbers to maintain,
under the most favourable circumstances, a precarious existence. To suppose, therefore, that
the whole human race for any considerable time were without regular marriage, is physiologically
impossible. They could never have survived it." (Devas, Studies of Family Life, S 101.)

7. Even if the alleged promiscuity ever did prevail--and it may have obtained to some extent
in certain degraded portions of humanity--its prevalence was not its justification. The practice
cannot have been befitting in any stage of the evolution of human society. As in all things
we suppose our readers to have understanding, we leave it to them to think out this matter
for themselves. Suffice it here to put forward two grand advantages gained and ends achieved,
which are called by theologians "the goods of marriage."

8. The first good of marriage is the offspring that is born of it. Nature wills, not only the
being, but the well-being of this offspring, and that both in the physical and in the moral
order. Very important for the physical health of the child it is, that it be born of parents
whose animal propensities are under some restraint; such restraint the bond of marriage implies.
Then, in the moral order, the child requires to be educated with love, a love that shall be
guided by wisdom, and supported by firmness. Love, wisdom, and firmness, they are the attributes
of both parents; but love is especially looked for from the mother, wisdom and firmness from
the father. And, what is important, both have an interest in the child such as no other human
being can take. We are speaking of the normal father or mother, not of many worthless parents
that actually are; for, as Aristotle often lays it down, we must not judge of a thing from
its bad specimens. No doubt, the State could establish public nurseries and infant schools,
and provide a staff of nurses and governesses, more scientific educators than even the normal
parent; but who, that has not been most unhappy in his origin, would wish his own infancy to
have been reared in such a place? What certificated stranger can supply for a mother's love?

9. The second good of marriage is the mutual faith of the partners. Plato never made a greater
mistake than when he wrote that "the female sex differs from the male in mankind only in this,
that the one bears children, while the other begets them;" and consequently that "no occupation
of social life belongs to a woman because she is a woman, or to a man because he is a man,
but capacities are equally distributed in both sexes, and woman naturally bears her share in
all occupations, and man his share, only that in all woman is weaker than man." (Republic,
454 D; 455 D.) Over against this we must set Aristotle's correction: "Cohabitation among human
kind is not for the mere raising of children, but also for the purposes of a partnership in
life: for from the first the offices of man and woman are distinct and different: thus they
mutually supply for one another, putting their several advantages into the common stock." (Ar.,
Eth., VIII., xii. 7.) Elsewhere he sets forth these several offices in detail: "The nature
of both partners, man and woman, has been prearranged by a divine dispensation in view of their
partnership: for they differ by not having their faculties available all to the same effect,
but some even to opposite effects, though combining to a common end: for God made the one sex
stronger and the other weaker, that the one for fear may be the more careful, and the other
for courage the more capable of self-defence; and that the one may forage abroad, while the
other keeps house: and for work the one is made competent for sedentary employments, but too
delicate for an out-door life, while the other makes a poor figure at keeping still, but is
vigorous and robust in movement; and touching children, the generation is special, but the
improvement of the children is the joint labour of both parents, for it belongs to the one
to nurture, to the other to chastise." (Ar., Econ., i. 3.)

These passages are enough to suggest more than they actually contain, of two orders of qualities
arranged antithetically one over against another in man and woman, so that the one existence
becomes complementary to the other, and the two conjoined form one perfect human life. This
life-communion, called by divines fides, or mutual faith, is then the second good fruit of
marriage. Indeed it is the more characteristically human good, offspring being rather related
to the animal side of our nature. But as animal and rational elements make one human being,
so do offspring and mutual faith constitute the adequate good of that human union of the sexes,
which we call marriage.

10. Whatever good there is in marriage, connections formed by either party beyond the marriage-bed,
are agents of confusion to the undoing of all that good and the practical dissolution of the
marriage.

Readings.--Contra Gentes, iii., 122; ib., iii., 126; ib., iii., 136; Devas, Studies of Family
Life, SS 90-101, where he disposes of the proof of primitive promiscuity, drawn from the fact
that in early societies kinship is traced and property claimed only through the mother.

SECTION II.--Of the Unity of Marriage.

1. Both man and woman are by nature incapable of a second marriage, while their former marriage
endures. No woman can have two husbands at the same time, which is polyandry; and no man can
have two wives at the same time, which is polygamy. The second marriage attempted is not only
illicit, but invalid: it is no contract, no marriage at all, and all cohabitation with the
second partner is sheer adultery. This is a great deal more than saying that polyandry and
polygamy are unlawful.

2. That is by nature no marriage, which is inconsistent with the natural ends of marriage,
offspring and mutual faith. But polyandry is thus inconsistent with the good of offspring,
and polygamy with mutual faith. It is not meant that polyandry makes the birth of children
impossible. But nature is solicitous, not for the mere birth, but for the rearing and good
estate of the child born. Now a child born fatherless is in an ill plight for its future education.
Posthumous children in lawful wedlock are born fatherless: that is a calamity: but what shall
we think of an institution which makes that calamity to the child sure always to occur? Such
an institution is polyandry. For in it no man can ever know his own child, except by likeness,
and likeness in a baby face is largely as you choose to fancy it. Again, is the polyandrous
wife to be, or not to be, the head of the family? If not, the family--for it ought to be one
family, where there is one mother--will have as many heads as she has husbands, a pretty specimen
of a house divided against itself. If she is to be the head, that is a perversion of the natural
order of predominance between the sexes. In any case, polyandry is little better than promiscuity:
it is fatal to the family and, fatal to the race; and children born of it are born out of marriage.

3. Against polygamy the case in natural law is not quite so strong as against polyandry. Still
it is a strong case enough in the interest of the wife. The words spoken by the bride to the
bridegroom in the marriage rite of ancient Rome, Ubi tu Caius, ego Caia, "Where you are master,
I am mistress," declare the relation of mutual faith as it should be, namely, a relation of
equality, with some advantage, preference, and pre-eminence allowed to the husband, yet not
so great advantage as to leave him free where she is straitly bound, and reduce her to the
servile level of one in a row of minions to his passion and sharers of his divided affections.
Polygamy in all ages has meant the lowering of womankind:

  He will hold thee--
  Something better than his dog, a little dearer than his horse

At its strongest, the love of man for woman, where polygamy obtains, is a flame of passion,
that quickly spends itself on one object, and then passes to another; not a rational, enduring,
human affection. It is also a fact, that the increase of the race is not greater in polygamy
than in monogamy. Thus, as a practice that runs strongly counter to one of the great purposes
of marriage, and is, to say the least, no help to the other, and carries with it the humiliation
of the female sex, polygamy is justly argued to be abhorrent to nature.

4. It is beside the purpose of this work to enter into the questions of morality that arise
out of Holy Scripture, considered as an inspired record of the actions of the Saints. But the
polygamy of the patriarchs of old so readily occurs to mind, that it is worth while to mention
four conceivable explanations, if only to indicate which is and which is not reconcilable with
our philosophy. The first explanation would be, that polygamy is not against the natural law,
but only against the positive divine law, which was derogated from in this instance. We have
made it out to be against the natural law. The second explanation would be that God gave the
patriarchs a dispensation, strictly so called, from this point of the natural law. We have
maintained that God cannot, strictly speaking, dispense from one jot or tittle of natural law.
(Ethics, c. viii., s. iii., nn. 1-3, p. 147.) [Footnote 19] A third explanation would be founded
on the words of St. Paul to the Athenians (Acts xvii. 30), about "God overlooking the times
of this ignorance." This would suppose that mankind, beginning in monogamy, from passion and
ignorance lapsed quickly into polygamy: that the patriarchs in good faith conformed to the
practice of their time; and that God, in their case as with the rest of mankind, awaited His
own destined hour for the light of better knowledge to break upon the earth. A fourth explanation
would be this. God by His supreme dominion can dissolve any marriage. By the same dominative
power He can infringe and partially make void any marriage contract without entirely undoing
it. The marriage contract, existing in its fulness and integrity, is a bar to any second similar
contract, as we have proved. But what, on this theory, the Lord God did with the marriages
of the patriarchs was this: He partially unravelled and undid the contract, so as to leave
room for a second contract, and a third, each having the bare essentials of a marriage, but
none of them the full integrity.

[Footnote 19: Dispensatio is the Latin for [Greek: oikonomia], and in this case means an "economy"
of law, in the sense that God did not press the marriage law beyond the capacity of the subject
(Matt. xix. 7,8). See my Newman Index, s.v. Economy. The schoolmen missed this meaning, and
took dispensatio in the canonical sense.]

But, for the author's final view, see Appendix.

Readings.--Contra Gent., iii., 124; Suarez, De Legibus, II., xv., 28.

SECTION III.--Of the Indissolubility of Marriage.

1. This section is pointed not so much against a separation--which may take place by mutual
consent, or without that, by grievous infidelity or cruelty of one party--as against a divorce
a vinculo, which is a dissolution of a marriage in the lifetime of the parties, enabling each
of them validly and lawfully to contract with some other. The unity of marriage is more essential
than its indissolubility. Nature is more against polygamy than against divorce. Even Henry
VIII. stuck at polygamy. In the present arrangement, a divorce a vinculo is obtainable in three
cases. First, when of two unbaptized persons, man and wife, the one is converted, and the unconverted
party refuses to live peaceably in wedlock, the convert may marry again, and thereupon also
the other party. So the Church understands St. Paul, I Cor. vii. 13, 15. Again, the Pope can
grant a divorce a vinculo in the marriage of baptized persons before cohabitation. Such a marriage
in that stage is also dissolved by the profession of one of the parties in a religious order.
Beyond these three cases, the Catholic Church allows neither the lawfulness nor the validity
of any divorce a vinculo by whomsoever given to whatsoever parties.

2. It is ours to investigate the lie of the law of nature, having due regard to the points
marked, antecedently to our search, by the definition of infallible authority. Nothing can
be done in the Church against the law of nature: since therefore divorce a vinculo is sometimes
recognized in the Church, it may be contended that marriage is not by nature absolutely indissoluble.
On the other hand, it is a proposition censured by Pius IX. in the Syllabus, n. 67: "By the
law of nature the bond of marriage is not indissoluble." Thus it appears we must teach that
marriage is naturally indissoluble, still not absolutely so, just as a safe is justly advertised
as fire-proof, when it will resist any conflagration that is likely to occur, though it would
be consumed in a blast-furnace or in a volcano. So marriage is indissoluble, if it holds good
for all ordinary contingencies, for all difficulties that may be fairly reckoned with and regarded
as not quite improbable, for every posture of affairs that the contracting parties before their
union need at all consider. Or, if the three cases of divorce actually allowed are to be traced
to the dominative power of God (Ethics, c. vii., n. 2, p. 129), we may teach that marriage
is by nature absolutely indissoluble, and that divorce is as much against the law of nature
as the killing of an innocent man, excepting in the case of God's dominion being employed to
quash the contract or the right to life. But against this latter view is to be set the consideration,
that God is manifestly averse to using His dominative power to overturn natural ordinances.
He does not hand the innocent over to death except in the due course of physical nature: why
then should He ever put forth His power against the marriage-tie, unless it be that nature
herself in certain cases postulates its severance? But if such is ever nature's petition, the
universal and unconditional permanence of the marriage-tie cannot be a requisition of nature,
nor is divorce absolutely excluded by natural law.

3. Thomas Sanchez, than whom there is no greater authority on this subject, records his opinion
that "a certain inseparability is of the nature of marriage," but that "absolute indissolubility
does not attach to marriage by the law of nature." He adds: "if we consider marriage as it
is an office of nature for the propagation of the race, it is hard to render a reason why for
the wife's barrenness the husband should not be allowed to put her away, or marry another."
(De Matrimonio, I. ii., d. 13, n. 7.) We proceed to prove that "a certain inseparability is
of the nature of marriage," so that marriage may truly be said to be indissoluble by the law
of nature. Whether this natural indissolubility is absolute, and holds for every conceivable
contingency, the student must judge by the proofs.

4. If a divorce a vinculo were a visible object on the matrimonial horizon, the parties would
be strongly encouraged thereby to form illicit connections, in the expectation of shortly having
any one of them they chose ratified and sanctified by marriage. Marriage would be entered upon
lightly, as a thing easily done and readily undone, a state of things not very far in advance
of promiscuity. Between married persons little wounds would fester, trifling sores would be
angered into ulcers: any petty strife might lead to a fresh contract, made in haste and repented
of with speed: then fond, vain regrets for the former partnership. Affinity would be a loose
bond of friendship between families; and after divorce it would turn to enmity. The fair but
weaker sex would suffer the more by this as by all other matrimonial perversions: for the man
has not so much difficulty in lighting upon another love, but the woman--she illustrates the
Greek proverb of a fallen estate:

  Mighty was Miletus in the bygone days of yore.

The divorced wife offers fewer attractions than the widow.

5. It is well to bear in mind that, at least by the positive ordinance of God in the present
order of His Providence, the marriage of baptized persons, after cohabitation, is absolutely
indissoluble; and no marriage can be dissolved except in the three cases specified. (n. 1.)

Readings.--Leo XIII., Encyclical on Christian Marriage, Arcanum divina sapientia; St. Thomas,
Contra Gent., iii, 123.

CHAPTER VII.

OF PROPERTY.

SECTION I.--Of Private Property.

1. Property was called by the Romans res familiaris, the stuff and substance of the family.
Property may be held by the individual for himself alone: but any large accumulation of it
is commonly held by the head of a family, actual or potential, for the family; and he cherishes
it for the sake of his family as much as, or even more than, for his own sake. This is to be
borne in mind, for many errors in theory and in practice spring from a large proprietor figuring
as an individual, and not as a sort of corporation sole in his capacity of paterfamilias.

2. We have seen (c. v., s. i., n. 2, p. 245) how man acquires a right over external goods,
as it were setting the seal of his own personality upon them. It appears upon further consideration,
that this right must extend beyond the mere making things your own for immediate use and consumption;
it must extend to the storing of things for future and perennial use. Otherwise we have Communism.
Communism allows men to hold property collectively in a common stock, and allows each member
of the community to take for his peculiar own out of that stock whatever for the moment he
needs; but it will not permit him to appropriate private means of subsistence against any notable
time to come. Communism is very good in a family, which is an imperfect community, part of
a higher community, the State. It is very good in a monastery, which is like a family: again,
very good in the primitive Church at Jerusalem, which existed for the time on quasi-monastic
lines: very good even in a perfect community, if such there be, of tropical savages, for whom
nature supplies all things, bananas to eat and palm-leaves to wear, without any human labour
of production; but very bad and quite unworkable everywhere else. St. Thomas, following Aristotle,
puts it pithily and sufficiently: "Private property is necessary to human life for three reasons:
first, because every one is more careful to look after what belongs to himself alone than after
what is common to all or to many, since all men shun labour and leave to others what is matter
of joint concern, as happens where there are too many servants: on another ground, because
human affairs are more orderly handled, if on each individual there rests his own care of managing
something, whereas there would be nothing but confusion, if every one without distinction were
to have the disposal of any thing he chose to take in hand: thirdly, because by this means
society is the rather kept at peace, every member being content with his own possession, whence
we see that among those who hold any thing in common and undivided ownership strifes not unfrequently
arise." (2a 2a, q. 66, art. 2, in corp.)

3. If any revolutionist yet will have the hardihood to say with Proudhon, "Property is theft,"
we shall ask him, "From whom?" He will answer of course, "From the community." But that answer
supposes the community to have flourished, a wealthy corporation, before private property began.
Needless to say that history knows nothing of such a corporation. The saying, that in the beginning
all things were in common, is not true in the sense that they were positively in common, like
the goods of a corporation, which are collective property: but simply that they were negatively
in common, that is, not property at all, neither of corporation nor of individual, but left
in the middle open to all comers, for each to convert into property by his occupation, and
by his labour to enhance and multiply. This must be modified by the observation, that the first
occupants were frequently heads of families, or of small clans, and occupied and held for themselves
and their people.

4. The saying, that all things are in common by the law of nature, must be received with still
greater reserve. Really with as much truth it might be said that all men are unmarried, or
unclad, or uneducated, by the law of nature. Nature unaided by human volition provides neither
property, nor clothing, nor marriage, nor education, for man. But nature bids, urges and requires
man to bestir his voluntary energies for the securing of all these things. The law of nature
does not prescribe this or that particular distribution of goods, as neither does it join this
man with that woman in marriage, nor insist on plaids rather than coats, nor set all boys to
learn algebra, nor fix a ritual for divine worship; but it insists in the vague upon some worship,
some education, some clothing, some marriage, and some distribution of goods, leaving the determination
in each case to choice, custom, and positive law, human and divine.

5. All property that can ever be immediately serviceable for saving human life, is held under
this burden, that a perishing fellow-creature, who cannot otherwise help himself in a case
of extreme need (c. iv., n. 8, p. 243), may make such use of the property of another as shall
suffice to rescue him from perishing off-hand. If he draws largely on another for this purpose,
he ought to make compensation afterwards, if he has the means. This has been taken for a piece
of the primeval rock of Communism cropping up from underneath subsequent human formations,--quite
a mistaken notion. There is no Communism whatever in the transaction. Up to the instant when
the needy man seizes the article that he requires to save him from death, that article still
belongs to the owner from whom he takes it, who is bound in charity to give it to the needy
party, but not in justice. Extreme need does not confer ownership, nor dispossess any previous
owner: but it confers the right of taking what is another's as though it belonged to no one;
and in the taking, the thing passes into the ownership of the new occupant, so that for the
previous owner forcibly to resume it would be a violation of justice. English law does not
recognise this right--properly enough, for with us it would be made a plea for much stealing--but
refers the destitute to the parish. The law is considerately worked by the magistrates. A starving
man, who took a loaf off a baker's tray, has been known to be sentenced to a few hours' imprisonment
with two good meals.

6. As St. Paul says (2 Cor. xii. 14), "parents ought to lay up for their children," that they
in whom their own existence is continued, may not be left unprovided for at their decease.
The amount laid up necessary for this purpose, ought not to be diverted from it. Thus much
at least Natural Law can tell us of the right of inheritance. And concerning testamentary right
these natural considerations are forthcoming, that it adds to the desirability of property,
that it secures deference to the wealthy in their old age, and that the abolition of it might
be frustrated by an apparatus of confidential donationes inter vivos, that is to say, making
the property over in trust before death. Further enlargement of the natural basis of testamentary
right may be effected by the judicious reader.

Readings.--Ar., Pol., II., v., nn. 1-16; De Lugo, De just. et jure, vi., nn. 2-6; ib., xxi,,
nn. 143, 144; Locke, Of Civil Government, c.v.; id., Of Government, nn. 88, 89.

SECTION II.--Of Private Capital.

1. Reverting to a former section (c. v., s. v., nn. 1-5, p. 255) we lay down this distinction:
Goods held for their use value are consumer's wealth: goods held for their market value are
producer's wealth, otherwise called capital. Capital then is that wealth which a man holds
for the purpose of gaining further wealth by means of commercial exchange. It is represented
by the razors that are made, not to mow the manly beard, or youthful moustache, of the maker,
but, as the Yorkshire vendor put it, "to sell."

2. Those economists who would allow no private ownership of capital, but would have all capital
to be State property, are called Socialists. They stand distinctly apart from the Communists,
whom we have been labouring to refute in the last section. The Communist forbids all private
property: the Socialist allows private property, but in the shape of consumer's wealth alone.
The Communist ignores the necessity of labour: the Socialist schemes to make all men work.
The Communist contemplates a hand-to-mouth dispensation of all things: the Socialist locks
all things up, wages in private coffers, capital in government stores. The Communist is a madman:
the speculations of the Socialist are sometimes deep.

3. To what are we to attribute the rise of Socialism, and its growth and propagation so fast
and vigorous, that, its supporters say with some colour of evidence, it is a theory destined
within a measurable space of time to pass into actual practice, whether men will or no? The
cause is not far to seek. There has lighted a plague upon all civilized countries, an outbreak
fearful and severe: only by the great blessing of Providence, joined to drastic remedial measures
on our part, can we cope with the evil. The plague is a cancerous formation of luxury growing
out of a root of pauperism. It is a disease old as the world, but the increase of commerce
and intercommunication has occasioned its bursting upon our generation in a peculiarly virulent
form. And what is more, ours being a talking age, the disease is made the staple of speeches
infinite, and the masses are clamouring for a remedy. The remedy proposed is Socialism.

4. Socialism in its essence is an attempt to transfer to the State, governed by universal suffrage,
the wealth, and with the wealth the social duties, of what have hitherto been the wealthy and
governing classes. It is not enough for the multitude that they are getting the political power
out of the hands of the landlord and the capitalist: they envy the one his broad acres, and
the other his investments. All must be theirs, sovereignty and wealth alike. If wealth has
its duties, the people collectively with cheerful acceptance will undertake those duties. "It
shall be ours, not only to be king, but to be employer, patron, landlord, educator. We will
assign to the workman his wages, just and ample and perennial: we will adjust production to
demand: we will be the restorers of agriculture: we will monopolise the carrying-trade: we
alone will sell whatever shall be sold: we will wash the workman in public baths: his taste
shall be elevated by our statues and pictures, our theatres, our music-halls, and our churches;
we will gratify his curiosity with our news-agencies, feed his thought with our popular philosophy,
educate his children as our own in our primary and secondary schools. Furthermore, we will
provide the long desiderated career open to talents. The stupid boy, though his father was
our Prime Minister, shall be made a cabin-boy, or a scavenger's assistant, an awful example
to young gentlemen who fail to pass the Government examinations: while we will pick up, not
the gutter child, for there shall be no more children in gutters, but the son of the woman
at the mill, and testing him and assigning his career, first by school examinations, and then
by his official performances, we will make him in time Poet Laureate or President of the Board
of Trade, according to the bent of his genius." The astonished workman turns round upon the
exhibitors of this fairy vision: "And pray who are You?" "Oh, you, we, the people, all of us
together. Come put your shoulder to the wheel, and up goes our enterprise. Or rather our first
motion is downwards: down with landlords and cotton-lords and lords of parliament, down with
contractors and stock-jobbers and all who live on the interest of their money, and then our
honourable multitude will possess and administer and govern."

5. If angels are to hold the collective ownership of capital and the government of men in the
Socialist Commonwealth; or if every citizen, retaining in his private capacity all the follies
and vices that human flesh is heir to, shall still be vested in angelic attributes, whenever
he sits as legislator or judge, or acts on the executive of a Socialist commission,--then this
new Commonwealth is likely to prove a blessed substitute for the rule of the higher classes,
which in one way or another has hitherto obtained in civilized society. But till angelic attributes
descend on earth, we shall not find a cure for the evils of cities and countries in simply
doubling the functions of government, and placing all sovereign rights, and all the most important
of proprietory rights and duties, in the hands of a numerical majority.

6. Capital, as we have seen, is a collection of market or exchange values in view of further
exchange. If we call supply S and demand D, market value is a social estimate of the fraction
D/S. Another definition has been given: Market value is a social estimate of the amount of
socially useful labour which a given article contains. This second definition contains this
much of truth in it, that directly as the demand for an article, and inversely as the supply
of the same, is the amount of labour which men find it worth their while to spend upon that
article for commercial purposes. Otherwise the definition is unsatisfactory and involved, and
leads to endless discussion. Without entering into these discussions, we will remark an ambiguity
in the term on which they all roll, the term labour, which ambiguity is at the bottom of three
fourths of the sophistries of popular Socialism.

7. There were two pillars put at the entrance of Solomon's temple, one on the right hand and
the other on the left: that which was on the right hand he called, according to the Septuagint,
Direction, [Greek: katorthosis], and that on the left hand, Strength, [Greek: ischus]. (2 Par.
iii. 17.) Further we are told that Solomon set seventy thousand men to carry burdens on their
shoulders, and eighty thousand to hew stones in the mountains, and three thousand six hundred
to be overseers of the work of the people. (2 Par. ii. 18.) The history is manifest. Strength
and Direction build the Temple: Strength, or Manual Labour, represented by the hodmen and quarrymen,
and the rest of the "hands:" Direction, or Mental Labour, represented by the overseers. Yet
not by them alone: surely we must count in as doers of mental labour the designer of the Temple,
or at least of its decorations, that "most wise and skilful man, my father Hiram;" and still
more King Solomon himself and David, the two royal minds that originated and perfected the
idea; and David's generals, Joab and Banaias, who secured the peace that was necessary as a
condition of the building; and innumerable other men of place and power in the nation, but
for whose thought and prudence the strength of the workman would have been thrown away like
a river poured out in the Libyan desert. From this example, eked out with a little thought
of his own, the reader may estimate the wisdom and credit of those who tell factory hands that
it is their labour which produces all the wealth of their employer, and that, in the day when
every man shall receive his due, the employer shall be made a workmen like themselves, and
his wealth shall go to the increase of their common wages.

8. Certainly, it will be said, the employer should be paid for his mental labour, but why at
so enormously higher a rate than the manual labourers? If we say, "because his labour is more
valuable," some Socialists would join issue on the score that labour is valuable according
to the time that it takes, and the employer works shorter hours than his men. But this taking
account of quantity alone in labour is an ignoring of the distinction which we have drawn of
two qualities or orders of labour, mental and manual; one more valuable than the other as being
scarcer and in greater demand, so that a short time of one may be set against a long time of
another, like a little gold against a heap of brass. Any man accustomed to both orders of labour
must have observed, that while he can work with his hands at almost any time when he is well,
the highest labour of his intellect can be done only at rare intervals, and that in one happy
hour he will sometimes accomplish more than in a day. As the same man differs from himself
at different times, so does one man from another in the average value of his mental efforts:
this value is not measured by time.

9. Abandoning this untenable position, Socialists still ask: "But is the difference in the
value of their labour quite so vast as is the interval between the profits of the employer
and the pay of his poor drudges?" Honestly we cannot say that it is. We are fain to fall back
upon the consideration, that the employer contributes, not only his brains to the work, but
his capital. "Ah, that is just it," is the Socialists' quick reply: "We propose to relieve
him of his capital, and remunerate his brainwork only: by that means we shall be able to pay
sufficiently handsome wages for management, according to the ratio of mental and manual labour,
and at the same time have a sufficiently large surplus over to raise the wages of his needy
comrades, those seventy thousand hodmen and eighty thousand quarrymen."

10. Two reasons may be given for turning away from this seductive proposal, and leaving capital
(not consumer's wealth merely) in private hands,--and that not only in the hands of what we
may call mentally productive capitalists, men who oversee their own enterprises and manage
their own workmen, but even of unproductive capitalists, men who have shares in and reap profits
out of a business which they never meddle with. The first reason is, because this position
of the productive, and still more that of the unproductive capitalist, is a prize for past
industry expended upon production. To understand this, we must recollect once more that men
work, not as individuals, but as heads of families. Every working man, from the sailor to the
shop-boy, covets for himself two things, pay and leisure. The same two things do mentally productive
labourers covet. But they covet them, not for themselves alone, but for their families, and
more even for their families than for themselves. They weary their brains, planning and managing,
that in old age they may retire on a competence, and hand down that same competence, undiminished
by their having lived on it, to their children. Thus the young man works and produces, that
the old man, and the child to come, may have exemption from productive labour, an abiding exemption,
which cannot be unless he is allowed to live on the interest of accumulated capital. These
positions of affluence and rest--sinecures they are, so far as production is concerned--are
the prizes awarded to the best productive labour. What they who do that labour aim at, is not
wages but exemption from toil: their wish is not so much to be wealthy and have leisure themselves
as to found a family in wealth and leisure,--the one possible foundation of such a family being
a store of private capital. Socialists of course will offer nobler prizes for the best productive
labour,--honour, and the satisfaction of having served the community, a satisfaction which
they would have men trained from childhood to relish above all other joys. Unfortunately, this
taste is yet unformed, and the stimulus of these nobler prizes is still unproved by experience.
Meanwhile men do work hard, to the advantage of the community, for the ignobler prize of family
affluence and ease. Socialists are going to take away the good boy's cake and give him a sunflower.

11. The second reason for leaving capital in private, even unproductive hands, begins from
the consideration, that the highest end of man on earth is not production, just as it is not
consumption, of the necessaries and luxuries of life. Aristotle bids us, as much as possible
in this life, "to play the immortal ([Greek: athanatizein]), and do our utmost to live by the
best element in our nature," that is, the intellect. (Ethics, c. ii., s. ii., n. 7, p. 9.)
There is the intellectual life of the statesman in the practical order: and in the speculative
order, that of the poet, of the artist, of the scholar, of the devout contemplative--the outcome
of learned and pious leisure, and freedom from vulgar cares. One man ascending into this higher
and better region helps his neighbour to follow. The neighbour can follow, even though he be
not free from productive cares, but the leader ought to be free, if he is to soar a high, sustained
and powerful flight, and guide others aloft. These unproductive capitalist families then form
what we may call, by a figure which rhetoricians call oxymoron, something which comes very
near a bull,--we may call them an endowed lay-clergy: they are told off from the rest of men
to lead the way in doing, and causing to be done, the highest work of humanity. The absence
of the First Class of Workers would render the Socialist Utopia a very vulgar place.

12. Nature's ideal is: To all, plenty: to some, superabundance. The superabundance of some
is not necessarily incompatible with all having plenty: nay it is a positive furtherance of
that and of still higher ends, as has been shown. But it is a position of advantage that may
be abused, and is abused most wantonly: hence there comes to be question of Socialism.

13. The Socialism above described is of the old sort, called Collectivism. A new variety has
appeared, Syndicalism. Syndicalism is opposed to nationalisation and centralisation of capital
and power: it would convert workers into owners in each separate department of labour,--colliers
to own the coal, railwaymen the lines and rolling-stock, agricultural labourers the land, and
so on. Collectivism might conceivably be put in practice, given a sufficiently high standard
of social virtue, a quality which Socialists are not in the way to get. As for Syndicalism
in practice, I leave that to the reader to imagine. Syndicalism stigmatises Collectivism as
a gross tyranny. Thus divided into two irreconcilable factions, the Socialists are not a happy
family.

Readings.--The Creed of Socialism, by Joseph Rickaby (Anti-socialist Union, Victoria Street,
Westminster).

SECTION III.--Of Landed Property.

1. Land, like cotton, timber, or iron-ore, is a raw material wrought up by man. Land, like
any other thing, becomes an article of property originally by occupation, and its value is
enhanced by labour. There is no more reason why all land, or the rents of all land, should
belong to the State, than why all house property, or all house rents, should belong to the
State. If the people need land to live on, so do they need houses to live in, coals to burn,
and shoes to wear. Socialism, once admitted, cannot be confined to land alone. It will exterminate
"the lord manufacturer" as remorselessly as it exterminates the landlord.

2. Every man, it is contended, has a right to live on the fruits of the soil. The proposition
is needlessly long. It should be put simply: Every man has a right to live. For as to living
on the fruits of the soil, there is absolutely nothing else that man can live on. All human
nutriment whatever is derived from what geologists call pulverised rocks, that is, soil. But
if it is meant that every man has a right to live on the fruits of some soil or land of his
own, where is the proof? So long as the fruits of the earth do not fail to reach a man's mouth,
what matters it whose earth it is that grows them? Some of the richest as well as the poorest
members of the community are landless men. Confiscate rent to take the place of taxation, and
some of the richest men in the community will go tax-free.

3. The land on which a nation is settled, we are told, belongs to that nation. Yes, it belongs
to them as individuals, yet not so that a foreigner is excluded by natural law from owning
any portion of it. But the government have over the land, and over all the property upon it,
what is called altum dominium, or eminent domain, which is a power of commanding private proprietors
to part with their property for public purposes, with compensation, whenever compensation is
possible. Thus when a railway gets its Act of Parliament, the owners through whose estates
the projected line is to run are compelled by an exercise of eminent domain to sell to the
company. By the same power the government in a besieged city, when hard pressed, might seize
upon all the stores of food and fuel within the walls, even without compensation. Altum dominium,
which is not dominion properly so called, is sufficient for all national emergencies, without
making the State the universal landlord.

4. It seems impossible to imagine an emergency that would justify any government in nationalizing
all the land at once without compensation. None but a wealthy government could afford the compensation
requisite; and the emergency would have to be severe indeed, to make it wise of them to incur
such an expense. We can imagine a government in a newly settled country starting on the understanding
that all land was State land, and that all ground rents were to be paid into the State exchequer.
This would amount to taking rents for taxes; and instead of a landlord in every district we
should have a tax-gatherer. Probably further taxation would be necessary: in England at any
rate the annual expenditure exceeds the rental by some twenty millions. Government, we may
suppose, would grant leases of land: when the lease fell in, the rent would be raised for unearned
increment, and lowered for decrement, but not raised for improvements effected by the tenant
himself. In that case the tenant in two or three generations might be a quasi-proprietor, his
rent being ridiculously small in comparison with the annual value of the holding. The improvements
might be the improvements of his grandfather, or even those of a complete stranger, from whom
he had bought the tenancy. Anyhow they might be the better portion of the value of the land,
and would not be government property. Or would the government insist on purchasing the improvements,
and look out for a new tenant paying a higher rent? Lastly, would the government themselves
make such improvements as many an English landlord makes now, for love of the country about
him and love of his own people?

5. It would be most difficult to prevent private property arising in land, even if it all did
belong to the State to start with. "Suppose L10 paid for a piece of land for a year, and suppose
the occupier said, Let me have it for ten years, and I will give you L20 a year, ought not
the State to accept the offer? Then suppose he said, Give it me for ever and I will pay L30
a year? Again, ought not the State to agree? He would then be that hateful creature a landowner,
subject to a rent-charge. Now suppose the State wanted to do work and had to borrow money,
and suppose he offered to give for the redemption of the rent-charge a sum which could not
be borrowed for less than L40 a year. Again, ought not the State to accept his offer? Yet in
that case he would become a hopelessly unmitigated landlord." (Lord Bramwell.)

6. When there is an alarm of fire in a theatre, any one who could convince the audience that
there was time enough for them all to file out in slow succession by the door, would avert
the greatest danger that threatened them, that of being crushed and trampled on by one another.
Mankind in pursuit of wealth are like a crowd rushing excitedly through a narrow place of exit.
Whatever man, or body of men, or institution, or doctrine, will moderate this "love of money"
([Greek: philargyria]), which St. Paul (1 Tim. vi. 10) declares to be "the root of all evils,"
the same is a benefactor to the human race, preventing that cruel oppression of the poor, which
comes of ruthlessly buying land, labour, everything, in the cheapest market and selling it
in the dearest. The landlord who always evicts, if he is not paid the highest competition rent,--the
employer who brings in from afar the hands that will work at the lowest starvation wage,--these
vultures are worse enemies to society than Socialists, for they occasion Socialism.

7. Socialism, whether in land alone or in all capital, is an endeavour to accomplish by State
control the results that ought to be achieved by private virtue. A landlord, or an employer,
who remembers his position as being what Homer calls "a king of men," [Greek: anax andron],--remembers
too, with Aristotle, that a prince exists for his people,--and who, besides a quasi-royal care
for the body of tenantry or workmen over whom he presides, has something too of a fatherly
interest in every one of them, their persons and their families, holding it to be a personal
tie with himself, to be in his employment or settled upon his land,--such a man and the multitude
of such men form the best bulwark a country can possess against Socialism. Such a landlord
or employer is a praesens numen to his workpeople or tenants. In the absence of this protective,
personal influence of the rich over the poor; in the disorganization of society consequent
upon the misconduct of its subordinate chiefs; in the stand-off attitude of the higher classes,
and the defiant independence of the lower; and in the greed of material goods that is common
to them both, there lurks a danger of unknown magnitude to our modern civilization.

Reading.--Leo XIII. on the Condition of Labour, Encyclical of 15th May, 1891. [Footnote 20]

[Footnote 20: "The right of property attaches to things produced by labour, but cannot attach
to things created by God." So Henry George, Condition of Labour, pp. 3, 4. How then do we read
in Progress and Poverty, bk. 7. ch. 1: "The pen with which I am writing is justly mine," and
that, in the last resort, on account of "the rights of those who dug the material from the
ground and converted it into a pen"?

1. Thomas Hobbes, than whom never was greater genius for riding an idea, right or wrong, to
the full length that it will go, was born in 1588: and notwithstanding his twelve pipes of
tobacco daily, his vigorous constitution endured to his ninety-second year. The first half
of his life fell in with the age of the greatest predominance of Calvinism. In religion he
was scarcely a Calvinist, indeed he laboured under a suspicion of atheism: but his philosophy
is accurately cast in the mould of the grim theology of Geneva. We may call it the philosophy
of Calvinism. It has for its central tenet, that human nature either was from the first, or
is become, bad, "desperately wicked," depraved, corrupt, and utterly abominable, so that whatever
is natural to man, in so far forth as it is natural, is simply evil. The remedy for our evil
nature Hobbes finds in no imputed merits of a Redeemer, no irresistible victorious grace, but
in the masterful coercion of a despotic civil power. But, lest any one should suspect that
there was at least this good in man, a propensity to civil society and obedience to the rulers
of cities, Hobbes insists that man is by nature wholly averse to society with his kind: that
the type of the race is an Ishmael, "a wild man, his hand against all men, and all men's hands
against him:" in fact that the state of nature is a state of war all round. He writes (Leviathan,
c. xiii.): "Men have no pleasure, but on the contrary a great deal of grief, in keeping company
where there is no power able to overawe them all.

2. Such is what Hobbes is pleased to call "the natural condition of mankind," a condition which
man would have every natural reason for getting out of with all speed, were he ever so unhappy
as to fall into it. It is true that, apart from civil government, violence would reign on earth.
But it is not true that to live apart from civil government is the natural condition of mankind.
It is not true that the only motive which draws men into civil society is the fear of violence,
as though there were no such facts and exigencies of human nature as sympathy, friendship,
intellectual curiosity, art, religion. It is not true that the one reason for the existence
of the civil power consists in this, that without the restraining hand of the magistrate men
would bite and devour one another. Lastly, it is not true that all rights, notably rights of
property, are the creation of the State. A man is a man first and a citizen afterwards. As
a man, he has certain rights actual and potential (c. v., s. i., p. 244): these the State exists,
not to create, for they are prior to it in the order of nature, but to determine them, where
indeterminate, to sanction and to safeguard them.

Natural rights go before legal rights, and are presupposed to them, as the law of nature before
that law which is civil and positive. It is an "idol of the tribe" of lawyers to ignore all
law but that upon which their own professional action takes its stand.

3. "In considering man as he must have come from the hands of nature," writes Jean Jacques
Rousseau, "I behold an animal less strong than some, less active than others, but upon the
whole in organism having the advantage of them all. I behold him appeasing his hunger under
an oak, slaking his thirst in the first brook, finding a bed at the foot of the same tree that
furnished his repast, and there you have all his cravings satisfied." (Discours sur l'origine
de l'inegalite .) This noble savage--quite a contrast to Hobbes's ruffian primeval, "nasty,
brutish," and short-lived--observes and imitates the industry, and gradually raises himself
to the instinct, of the beasts among whom he lives. His constitution is robust, and almost
inaccessible to malady. He attains to old age, free from gout and rheumatism. He surpasses
the fiercest wild beasts in address as much as they surpass him in strength, and so arrives
to dwell among them without fear. Yet withal he is distinguished from brutes by freewill and
perfectibility, qualities which gradually draw him out of his primeval condition of tranquil
innocence, lead him through a long course of splendours and errors, of vices and virtues, and
end by making him a tyrant at once over nature and over himself.

4. Rousseau's life, 1715-1778, was a continual protest against the formalism, affectation,
pedantry and despotism of the age of the Bourbons. His ideal of man was the unconventional,
unconstrained, solitary, but harmless and easy-going savage. Hobbes was the growth of a sterner
and more serious age. The only reality to him in heaven and on earth was force: his one idea
in philosophy was coercion. Human nature to him was an embodiment of brute violence ever in
need of violent restraint. Rousseau, an optimist, saw nothing but good in man's original nature:
to the pessimist mind of Hobbes all was evil there. Neither of them saw any natural adaptation
to social life in the human constitution. To live in society was, in both their views, an artificial
arrangement, an arbitrary convention. But Hobbes found in the intolerable evils of a state
of nature an excellent reason why men should quit it for the unnatural condition of citizens.
Rousseau found no reason except, as he says, quelque funeste hasard. The problem for Hobbes
stood thus: how men, entering society, might be "cribbed, cabined, and confined" to the utmost
in order to keep down their native badness. Rousseau's concern was, how one might so become
a citizen as yet to retain to the full the delightful liberty of a tropical savage. Hobbes's
solution is the Leviathan, Rousseau's the Social Contract. The prize, we think, rests with
the Englishman: but the reader shall judge.

5. And first of the Social Contract. Rousseau proposes "to find a form of association which
shall defend and protect with all the strength of the community the person and the goods of
each associate, and whereby each one, uniting himself to all, may nevertheless obey none but
himself and remain as free as before." (Contrat Social, i. 6.) This proposal is hopeless, it
is a contradiction in terms. No man can contract and remain as free as before, but he binds
himself either under a wider obligation to do or abstain, where he was not bound before, or
under a stronger obligation where he was bound already. Nevertheless Rousseau finds a means
of accomplishing the impossible and the self-contradictory. "Each of us puts into a common
stock his person and all his power under the supreme direction of the general will; and we
receive in our turn the offering of the rest, each member as an inseparable part of the whole.
Instantly, instead of the private person of each contracting party, this act of association
produces a moral and collective body, composed of as many members as the assembly has voices,
which body receives by this same act its unity, its common Ego, its life and its will." (ib.)
This awful signing away of all your rights, so that your very personality is merged in that
of the community--a self-renunciation going far beyond that of profession in any religious
order--ought certainly, as Rousseau says, to be "the most voluntary act in the world;" and
he adds the characteristic reason: "every man being born free and master of himself, none can,
under any pretence whatsoever, subject him without his own consent." (Contrat Social, iv. 2.)
Then you ask: When have I made this large contract by the most voluntary act in the world?
Rousseau replies: "When the State is instituted, consent is in residing." (ib.) But, you reply,
my residence is anything but the most voluntary act in the world: it would be awkward for me
to emigrate; and if I did emigrate, it would only be to some other State: I cannot possibly
camp out and be independent in the woods, nor appease my hunger under an oak. To this plea
Rousseau quite gives in, remarking that "family, goods, the want of an asylum, necessity, violence,
may keep an inhabitant in the country in spite of himself; and in that case his mere sojourn
no longer supposes his consent to the contract." (ib.) Then none of us have made the contract,
for we have never had the option of living anywhere except in some State.

6. This is the generation of that great Leviathan, or rather, to speak more reverently, of
that mortal god, to whom we owe under the immortal God our peace and defence." (Leviathan,
c. xvii.) This idea of all the rights and personalities of the individuals who contract to
live socially being fused and welded together into the one resultant personality and power
of the State, has evidently been borrowed by Rousseau from Hobbes. We shall deal with the idea
presently. Meanwhile several points claim our notice.

7. The hideous piece of cynicism whereby Rousseau (Contrat Social, iv. 2), after promising
you that, if you join his commonwealth, you shall obey none but yourself, then goes on to tell
you that you obey yourself in obeying the will of the majority, even when it puts you in irons
or leads you to death--because as a citizen you have once for all renounced your own will,
and can only wish what the majority wishes,--has its root in the position of Hobbes, that "every
subject is author of every act the sovereign doth." (Leviathan, c. xxi.)

8. A real and important difference between the Leviathan and the Social Contract, is that Hobbes
(c. xix.) allows various distributions of sovereign power, but prefers monarchy: Rousseau (l.
ii., c. i.) will have it that sovereignty is vested inalienably in the people: of which doctrine
more to follow.

9. Men are by nature equal, say Rousseau and Hobbes and many more respectable authors. Yes,
in their specific nature, that is, they are all equally men. Similarly you have it that all
triangles are equal, if that is a proposition of any value. But men as individuals are not
all equal. One is stronger in body, another more able in mind: one predisposed to virtue, another
to vice: one born in affluence and honour, another in squalor. Not men in the abstract, but
living men, start at different points of vantage, and the distance between them widens as they
run the race of life. We may lay it down as an axiom, in diametric opposition to Rousseau,
that inequalities are natural, equalities artificial.

10. Man is born free: so opens the first chapter of the Contrat Social. If free of all duties,
then void of all rights (c. v., s. i., nn. 5, 7, pp. 246, 247): let him then be promptly knocked
on the head as a sacrifice to Malthas; and with the misformed children born in Plato's Republic,
"they will bury him in a secret and unseen spot, as is befitting."

11. Hobbes and Rousseau go upon this maxim, which has overrun the modern world, that no man
can be bound to obedience to another without his own consent. The maxim would be an excellent
one, were men framed like the categories of Aristotle--substance, quantity, quality, relation,
and the rest--each peering out of his own pigeon-hole, an independent, self-sufficient entity.
But men are dependent, naturally dependent whether they will or no, every human being on certain
definite others,--the child on the parent, the citizen on the State whose protection he enjoys,
and all alike on God. These natural dependences carry with them natural uncovenanted obediences,--to
parents, filial duty--to country, loyalty--to God, piety: all which are embraced in the Latin
term pietas. (See St. Thomas, 2a 2a, q. 101, art. 1, in corp.) The fatal maxim before us is
the annihilation of pietas. In lieu of loyal submission we get a contract, a transaction of
reasoned commercial selfishness between equal and equal. This perverse substitution has called
forth Leo XIII.'s remark on the men of our time, "Nothing comes so amiss to them as subjection
and obedience," Nihil tam moleste ferunt quam subesse et parere. (Encyclical on Christian Marriage.)

12. The common extravagance of the Leviathan and the Social Contract is the suppression of
the individual, with his rights and his very personality, which is all blended in the State.
(See Rousseau's words above quoted, n. 5, and those of Hobbes, n. 6.) The reservations in favour
of the individual made by Hobbes, Leviathan, c. xxi., and by Rousseau, Contrat Social, l. ii.,
c. iv., are either trifles or self-contradictions. But it is not in man's power by any contract
thus to change his nature, so as to become from autocentric heterocentric (c. ii., s. i., n.
2, p. 203; c. v., s. i., n. 1, p. 244), from a person a thing, from a man a chattel, void of
rights and consequently of duties, and bound to serve this Collective Monster, this Aggregated
Idol, with the absolute devotedness that is due to God alone. The worship of the new Moloch
goes well with the dark misanthropism of Hobbes: but in Rousseau, the believer in the perfect
goodness of unrestrained humanity, it is about the most glaring of his many inconsistencies.
It is of course eagerly taken up by the Socialists, as carrying all their conclusions. It is
the political aspect of Socialism.

Reading.--Burke, Warren Hastings, Fourth Day, the passage beginning, "He have arbitrary power!"

1. The Greeks had a name [Greek: eranos], which meant a feast where the viands were supplied
by each guest contributing in kind. If, in a party of four, one man brought a ham, another
a rabbit, a third a dish of truffles, and a fourth a salmon, no one would expect that, when
the cover was raised, there should appear a pigeon-pie. That would not be in the nature of
an [Greek: eranos]. Now not only Hobbes and Rousseau, but Locke and a great multitude of modern
Englishmen with him, hold that the power of the State is an aggregate, the algebraic sum of
the powers whereof the component members would have stood possessed, had they lived in what
is called, by a misleading phrase, "the state of nature," that is, the condition of men not
subject to civil authority. These powers,--either, as Hobbes and Rousseau virtually say, all
of them, or, as Locke and the common opinion has it, only some of them, --men are supposed
to resign as they enter into the State. If therefore there appears in the City, Nation, State,
or Commonwealth, a certain new and peculiar power, which belongs to no individual in the "state
of nature," or, as I prefer to call it, the extra-civil state, then what we may designate as
the Aggregation Theory breaks down, and another origin must be sought of civil principality.
But there is such a power in the State, new and peculiar, and not found in any of the component
individuals: it is the power and authority to punish on civil grounds. It is the right of the
rods and axes, that were borne before the Roman magistrate. It is, in its most crucial form,
the right to punish with death.

2. We are not here concerned with proving the existence of this right. It is generally admitted:
we assume it accordingly, and shall prove it later on. Nor are we concerned with domestic punishment,
inflicted by the head of a family within his own household, for the good of that household,
stopping short of any irreparable harm to the sufferer. (St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 65, art. 2, ad.
2.) Leaving this aside, we say, and have proved already, that one private individual has no
right to punish another, neither medicinally for the amendment of the delinquent, nor by way
of deterrent for the good of the community, nor in the way of retribution for his own satisfaction.
He has the right of self-defence, but not of punishment: the two things are quite different.
He may also exact restitution, where restitution is due: but that again is not punishing. If
he is in the extra-civil state, he may use force, where prudence allows it, to recover what
he has lost. This right of private war really is surrendered by the individual, when the State
is established: but war and punishment are two totally different ideas. Subjects are punished:
war is levied on independent powers. (Ethics, c. ix., s. iii., nn. 4-6, pp. 171-174; Natural
Law, c. ii., s. ii., n. 6, p. 212.)

3. We observe that the punishment of offenders against the law of nature, as such, belongs
to the Legislator, who is God alone. Certainly it is well, nay necessary, that there should
be human law to bear out the law of nature: but human law is the creation of human society
in its perfection, which is the State. Man is punished by man for breaking the laws of man,
not--except remotely--for breaking the laws of God. Nor would it be any inconvenience, if the
law of nature were in vain in a state wherein nature never intended men to live, wherein no
multitude of men ever for any notable time have lived, a state which is neither actual fact
nor ideal perfection, but a mere property of the philosophic stage, a broken article, an outworn
speculation. Such is "the state of nature," as identified with the extra-civil state by Hobbes,
Locke, and Rousseau.

1. The State is deemed by Aristotle (Politics, III., ix., 14): "the union of septs and villages
in a complete and self-sufficient life." The first and most elementary community is the family,
[Greek: oikia]. A knot of families associating together, claiming blood-relationship and descent,
real or fictitious, from a common ancestor, whose name they bear, constitute a [Greek: genos],
called in Ireland a sept, in Scotland a clan, nameless in England. When the sept come to cluster
their habitations, or encampments, in one or more spots, and to admit strangers in blood to
dwell among them, these hamlets, or camps, gradually reach the magnitude of a village. When
a number of these villages, belonging to different septs, come to be contiguous to one another,
this mere juxtaposition does not make of them a State. Nor does interchange of commodities,
nor intermarriage, nor an offensive and defensive alliance: these are the mutual relations
of a confederacy, [Greek: xymmaxia], but all these and more are needed for a State, [Greek:
polis]. To be a State, it is requisite that these septs and villages should agree to regulate
the conduct of their individual members by a common standard of social virtue, sufficient for
their well-being as one community. This common standard is fixed by common consent, or by the
decision of some power competent to act for all and to punish delinquents. The name of this
common standard is law. (Ethics, c. vii., n. 1, p. 126.) The community thus formed leads a
life complete and self-sufficient, not being a member of another, but a body by itself,--not
part of any ulterior community, but complete in the fulness of social good and social authority.

2. Among the ancient Greeks and Italians, and to some extent also in mediaval Italy and Germany,
the city or municipality, with the small country district attached, was the State. With us
the nation is the State; and accordingly we say my country where the Greek said my city. Bearing
this difference in mind, as also the fact that the sept is not known amongst us except to antiquarians,
and likewise that the village with us coincides with the parish, and that there are town as
well as country parishes,--upon these modern data we may amend Aristotle's definition thus:
The State is the union of parishes and municipalities in a perfect and self-sufficient community.

3. The City State is well illustrated in the following narrative of Thucydides (ii., 15):

"In the time of Cecrops and the early kings as far as Theseus, Attica was always divided among
several independent cities, with their own town-halls and magistrates; and when there was no
alarm of an enemy, the inhabitants did not resort for common deliberation to the King, but
severally managed their own affairs and took their own counsel, and some of them even went
to war. But when Theseus came to the throne, he abolished the council-chambers and magistracies
of the other cities, and centralised all the people in what is now the city [of Athens], where
he appointed their one council-chamber and town-hall; and while they continued to occupy their
own properties as before, he forced them to recognise this as their one city and State." Attica
before Theseus was a confederacy, [Greek: xymmaxia], not a State, [Greek: polis].

4. A citizen is defined: "one who has access to a share in deliberative and judicial functions."
(Ar., Pol. III., i., 12.) It is not necessary that he actually should share these functions,
but the way to them should lie open to him: he should be a person qualified to share in them.
There are various degrees of citizenship. Under a parliamentary government, we distinguish
the member of parliament, the elector, and him who will be an elector as soon as he gets a
house of his own; and again, the judge, and him who is liable to serve on juries. In an absolute
monarchy there are no citizens, only subjects.

5. "The distribution of power in the State, and especially of the sovereign power, is called
the polity" ([Greek: politeia], Ar., Pol., III., vi., 1),--a word immortalised by the judicious
Hooker, and happily recovered recently to the English language. The polity then is the distribution
of the sovereignty. The person, singular or collective, in whose hands the full sovereignty
rests, is called the ruler. Be it observed that what we call the ruler is never one man, except
in absolute monarchy. By the theory of the British Constitution, the ruler is King, Lords,
and Commons, together.

6. Nature requires that men generally live in society, domestic and civil, so that the individual
be of the family, and families form associations, which again conspire to form one perfect
community, which is the State. The requirement of nature may be gathered from the universal
practice of mankind. "If it (the word savage) means people without a settled form of government,
without laws and without a religion, then, go where you like, you will not find such a race."
(Max Muller, in Nineteenth Century, Jan. 1885, p. 114.) The same may be gathered from a consideration
of what the State is, and of the ends which it serves. The State, as we have seen (n. 2), is
a union of septs and villages, or of parishes and municipalities. The individual is born and
nurtured in the family, and ordinarily becomes in time the parent of a new family. Families
must combine to form septs by blood, or villages (or parishes) by locality. Municipalities
we may leave aside, for a municipality is a potential State. But we must consider the sept,
village, or parish, which is the community intermediate between family and State. Among the
cogent reasons which require families to enter into this association, we may mention friendship,
intermarriage, the interchange of services and commodities, the cultivation of the arts, the
preservation of traditions and inventions.

7. But it is further necessary that these septs, villages, or parishes, should band together
and combine to form a higher community, self-sufficient and perfect,--for the determining of
rights which Natural Law leaves undetermined,--for the punishing of disturbers of the peace,
if need be, even with death,--for defence against a common enemy,--for a union of counsels
and resources to the execution of magnificent works. This self-sufficient and perfect community,
which is not part of any higher community, is the State.

8. We may observe that the whole reason for the being of the State is not mutual need, nor
the repression of violence. Main reasons these are, no doubt, but not the whole main reason.
Even if men had no need of one another for the supply of their animal wants, they would still
desire to converse for the satisfaction of their intellectual curiosity and their social affections.
And even if we had all remained as void of guile, and as full of light and love, as our first
parents were at their creation, we should still have needed the erection of States. In a State
there are not only criminal but civil courts, where it is not wicked men alone who come to
be litigants. From sundry passages of Scripture it would appear that even angels may disagree
as to what is best and proper: angelic men certainly may and do. It is a mistake to look upon
civil government, with its apparatus of laws and judgments, simply as a necessary evil, and
remedy of the perverseness of mankind. On the contrary, were all men virtuous, States would
still be formed, towering in magnificence above the States known to history, as the cedars
of Lebanon above the scanty growths of a fell-side in our north country.

9. There can be no State without a power to guide and govern it. It has indeed become the fashion
to repeat, as the latest discovery in politics, that what a State needs is not government but
administration. This saying comes of a theory, to be examined presently, that sovereign power
abides permanently with the people at large, and that the sole function of princes, cabinets,
and parliaments, is to provide means of giving effect to the popular will. This however is
not quite a repudiation of government, but a peculiar view as to the seat and centre of government.
Those who hold it, vigorously maintain the right of the Many to govern, control, and command
the Few. The need of some governing authority in a State can be denied by none but an Anarchist,
a gentleman who lives two doors beyond Rousseau on the side of unreason.

10. Every State is autonomous, self-governing, independent. Either the whole people taken collectively
must rule the same whole taken distributively, or a part must rule the rest. The ruler is either
the whole commonwealth, or more frequently a part of the commonwealth. An autocrat is part
of the State which he governs. Sovereignty whole and entire is intrinsic to the State. A community
that is to any extent governed from without, like British India or London, is not a State,
but part of a State, for it is not a perfect community.

11. We have it therefore that man is a social animal. Naturally he is a member of a family.
Nature requires that families should coalesce into higher communities, which again naturally
converge and culminate in the State. Nature further requires that in every State there should
be an authority to govern. But authority to govern and duty to obey are correlatives. Nature
therefore requires submission to the governing authority in the State. In other words, Nature
abhors anarchy as being the destruction of civil society, and as cutting the ground from under
the feet of civilised man. The genuine state of nature, that state and condition, which nature
allows and approves as proper for the evolution of the human faculties, is the state of man
in civil society. That is lost where there is no judge in the land.

12. There are men full of a sentimental deference to authority and professions of obedience,
who yet will not obey any of the authorities that actually are over them. These are disobedient
men. He is an anarchist in practice, who meditates treason and rebellion against the "powers
that be" actually over him in the State wherein he lives. To obey no actual power is to obey
no power, as to wear no actual clothes is to go naked. To keep up the comparison,--as a man
may change his clothes upon occasion, and thus go through a brief interval of unclothedness
without injury to health or violation of decency, notwithstanding the requirement of nature
to wear clothes: so it may be or it may not be consonant with the exigency of our nature at
times to subvert by insurrection the existing government in order to the substitution of a
new authority; that does not concern us here. We are stating the general rule under ordinary
circumstances. The submission to civil authority, which nature requires of us, must be paid
in the coin of obedience to the actual established "powers that be."

13. Any one who understands how morality comes from God (Ethics, c. vi., s. ii. nn. 6-9, 13,
pp. 119-125), can have no difficulty in seeing how civil power is of God also. The one point
covers the other. We need no mention of God to show that disobedience, lying, and the seven
deadly sins, are bad things for human nature, things to be avoided even if they were not forbidden.
All the things that God forbids are against the good of man. Their being evil is distinguishable
from their being prohibited, and antecedent to it. Now as drunkenness and unchastity are evil
for man, so too is anarchy. The one remedy for anarchy is civil government. Even if there were
no God, it would be still imperatively necessary, as we have seen, for mankind to erect political
institutions, and to abide by the laws and ordinances of constitutional power. But there would
be no formal obligation of submission to these laws and ordinances; and resistance to this
power would be no more than philosophic sin. (Ethics, c. vi., s. ii., n. 6, p. 119.) What makes
anarchy truly sinful and wrong is the prohibition of it contained in the Eternal Law, that
law whereby God commands every creature, and particularly every man, to act in accordance with
his own proper being and nature taken as a whole, and to avoid what is repugnant to the same.
(Ethics, c. vi., s. ii., n. 9, p. 120.)

Therefore, as man is naturally social, and anarchy is the dissolution of society, God forbids
anarchy, and enjoins obedience to the civil power, under pain of sin and damnation. "They that
resist, purchase to themselves damnation" (Rom. xiii. 2): where the theological student, having
the Greek text before him, will observe that the same phrase is used as in 1 Cor. xi. 29 of
the unworthy communicant, as though it were the like sin to rend our Lord's mystical Body by
civil discord as to profane His natural Body by sacrilege. But to enjoin obedience and to bestow
authority are the obverse and reverse of one and the same act. God therefore gives the civil
ruler power and authority to command. This is the meaning of St. Paul's teaching that there
is no power but from God, and that the powers that be are ordained of God. (Rom. xiii. 1.)

14. The argument is summed up in these seven consequent propositions:

(a) Civil society is necessary to human nature. (b) Civil power is necessary to civil society.
(c) Civil power is naught without civil obedience. (d) Civil obedience is necessary to human
nature. (e) God commands whatever is necessary to human nature. (f) God commands obedience
to the civil power. (g) God commissions the civil power to rule.

15. If any one asks how the State and the civil power is of God any otherwise than the railway
company with its power, or even the fever with its virulence, a moment's reflection will reveal
the answer in the facts, that railway communication, however convenient, is not an essential
feature of human life, as the State is: while diseases are not requirements in order to good,
but incidental defects and evils of nature, permitted by God. Why God leaves man to cope with
such evils, is not the question here.

Readings.--Ar., Pol., I., ii.; III., i.; III., ix.: nn. 5-15.

SECTION IV.--Of the Variety of Polities.

1. One polity alone is against the natural law; that is every polity which proves itself unworkable
and inefficient: for the rest, various States exhibit various polities workable and lawful,
partly from the circumstances, partly from the choice, of the citizens: but the sum total of
civil power is a constant quantity, the same for all States. We proceed to establish the clauses
of this statement in succession.

2. If a watch be necessary to a railway guard, and he is bound to have one accordingly, it
is also necessary, and he is bound to procure it, that the watch shall go and keep time. A
watch that will not keep time is an unlawful article for him to depend upon, being tantamount
to no watch, whereas he is bound to have a watch. Otherwise, be his watch large or small, gold,
silver, or pinchbeck, all this is indifferent, so long as it be a reliable timekeeper. In like
manner, we must have a State, we must have a government, and we must have a government that
can govern. Monarchy, aristocracy, parliaments, wide or narrow franchise, centralisation, decentralisation,
any one of these and countless other forms--apart from the means whereby it is set up--is a
lawful government, where it is a workable one; unlawful, and forbidden by God and nature, where
it cannot work. A form of government that from its own intrinsic defects could nowhere work,
would be everywhere and always unlawful.

3. You cannot argue from the accomplished fact the lawfulness of the means whereby it was accomplished.
Nor do we say that every form of government, which succeeds in governing, was originally set
up in justice; nor again that the success of its rule is necessarily due to the use of just
means. The Committee of Public Safety in Paris in 1794 did manage to govern, but it was erected
in blood, and it governed by an unscrupulous disregard of everybody's rights. All that we say
is, that no distribution of civil power as a distribution, or no polity as a polity (s. iii.,
n. 5, p. 312), is unlawful, if by it the government can be carried on. And the reason is plain.
For all that nature requires is that there should be an efficient civil authority, not that
this man should have it, or that one man or other should have it all, or that a certain class
in council assembled should engross it, or that all the inhabitants of the country should participate
in it. Any one of these arrangements that will work, satisfies the exigency of nature for civil
rule, and is therefore in itself a lawful polity.

4. Working, and therefore, as explained, lawful polities are as multitudinous as the species
of animals. Besides those that actually are, there is a variety without end, as of animals,
so of polities, that might be and are not. We can classify only the main types. We ground our
classification upon Ar., Pol., III., vii., modernising it so as to take in forms of representative
government, whereof Aristotle had no conception.

(1) Monarchy, or the rule of the Single Person, in whose hands the whole power of the State
is concentrated, e.g., Constantine the Great.

(2) Aristocracy, or the rule of the Few, which will be either direct or representative, according
as either they themselves by their own votes at first hand, or representatives whom they elect,
make the laws.

(3) Democracy, or the rule of the Many, that is, of the whole community. Democracy, again,
is either direct (commonly called pure) or representative. The most famous approach in history
to pure democracy is the government of Athens, B.C. 438-338.

(4) Limited Monarchy.

(a) Monarchy with Aristocracy, the government of England from 1688 to 1830.

(b) Monarchy with Democracy.

5. All civil government is for the governed, that is, for the community at large. The perversion
of a polity is the losing sight of this principle, and the conducting of the polity in the
interest of the governing body alone. By such perversion monarchy passes into tyranny, aristocracy
into oligarchy, and democracy into ochlocracy or mob-rule. It might appear strange that, where
the power rests with the whole people collectively, government should ever be carried on otherwise
than in the interest of the entire community, did we not remember that the majority, with whom
the power rests in a democracy, may employ it to trample on and crush the minority. Thus the
Many may worry and harass the Few, the mean and poor the wealthy and noble: though commonly
perhaps the worrying has been the other way about. Anyhow it is important to observe that there
is no polity which of itself, and apart from the spirit in which it is worked, is an adequate
safeguard and rock of defence against oppression.

6. The wide range of polities that history presents is not drawn out by the caprice of nations.
The very fact of a certain nation choosing a certain polity, where they are free to choose,
is an indication of the bent of the national character, and character is not a caprice. No
North American population are ever likely to elect an absolute monarch to govern them. That
polity which thrives on the shores of the Caspian, can strike no root on the banks of the Potomac.
The choice of a polity is limited by the character of the electors and by the circumstances
in which the election is made. Not every generation in a nation is free to choose its polity:
but the choice and institution of the fathers binds the children. Up to a certain point ancestral
settlements must be respected, or instability ensues, and anarchy is not far off. Thus the
spirit of freedom should always act as Burke says, "as if in the presence of canonized forefathers."

7. The smallest State in the world is the little republic of Andorra in the Pyrenees. Though
it be a paradox to say it, there is as much political power in Andorra as in Russia,--one and
the same measure of it in every State. In every State there is power for civil good to the
full height of the emergencies that may arise. The same emergencies may arise everywhere, and
everywhere there is full power to see that the commonwealth take no harm by them. What a great
empire can do for this purpose, e.g., proclaim martial law, search houses, lay an embargo on
the means of transport, impress soldiers, the same can the tiniest commonwealth do in the like
need. And the ordinary functions of government are the same in both.

8. This seems at variance with the theory of some constitutions, according to which there are
certain so-called fundamental laws, which the legislature cannot call in question, nor deal
with in any way, but must take them in all its deliberations for positions established and
uncontrovertible. The British Constitution recognizes no fundamental laws. There is no reform
that may not legally be broached in Parliament and enacted there. Parliament is said to be
"omnipotent," "able to do everything, except to make a man a woman." But in many legislatures
it is not so. At Athens of old there were certain measures which no one could introduce for
discussion in the Sovereign Assembly without rendering himself liable to a prosecution [Greek:
graphae paranomon]. And there have been many monarchs termed absolute, who yet were bound by
their coronation-oath, or by some other agreement with their people, to preserve inviolate
certain institutions and to maintain certain laws. It may be contended that such a government
as we have in England, which is theoretically competent to pass any law within the limits of
the natural law, has a greater range of power than a government whose operation is limited
by a barrier of fundamental positive law. But this contention vanishes when we observe that
there must remain in the State, which has fundamental laws, a power somewhere to reverse them.
They can be reversed at least by the consent of the whole people. Thus at Athens the [Greek:
graphae paranomon] could be suspended by a vote of the Assembly. A people can release their
monarch from his coronation-oath in such portions of it as are not binding absolutely by divine
law. Where fundamental law obtains, a portion of the civil power becomes latent, and only a
diminished remainder is left free in the hands of the person or persons who are there said
to rule. Such person or persons are not the adequate ruler of the State, as they have not the
full power, but the people, with whom rests the latent authority to cancel certain laws, are
to that extent partakers in the sovereignty. Where there is agreement of the whole people,
great and small, no part of the power remains latent, but all is set free. With us, it may
be observed, the omnipotence of parliament has become a mere lawyer's theory. On every great
issue, other than that on which the sitting parliament has been elected, it is the practice
of ministers to "go to the country" by a new General Election. Thus only a certain measure
of available authority is free at the disposal of parliament: the rest remaining latent in
the general body of the electorate. Such is our constitution in practice.

9. If in any State the whole power were free in the hands of one man, there we might look to
see made good the dictum of the judicious Hooker (Ecclesiastical Polity, bk. i., s. x., n.
5): "To live by one man's will became the cause of all men's misery." In a monarchy untrammelled
by senate or popular assembly, it were well that some of the sovereign power should remain
latent, and that His Majesty should rule in accordance with certain laws, not within his royal
pleasure to revoke.

10. The State and the power of the State, apart from the polity, is of God. (s. iii., n. 14,
p. 318.) The State under this or that polity and this or that ruler, is also of God. But, apart
from the polity, the State is of God antecedently to any determination of any human will: because,
willy nilly, man must live in civil society and God commands him so to do. But the State under
this polity and this ruler is of God consequently to some determination of human volition.
In this consequent sense we write Victoria Dei gratia.

11. There is little use in the enquiry, Which is the best polity? There is no polity which
excels all other polities as man does the rest of animals. We judge of polities as of the various
types of locomotives, according to the nature of the country where they are to run. Aristotle
tells us that if we meet with a Pericles, we shall do best to make him our king, and hand over
all our affairs to him. (Ar., Pol., III., xiii., 25: cf. Thucydides, ii., 65.) Otherwise, "for
most cities and for most men, apart from exceptional circumstances, or a condition of ideal
perfection, but having regard to what is ordinarily possible," he recommends a moderate republic
under middle-class rule. (Ar., Pol., VI., xi., Ed. Congreve.) This he calls par excellence
"a polity," [Greek: politeia]. Democracy, [Greek: deimokratia] with Aristotle, always means
that perversion of democracy, which we call mob-rule. (Ar., Pol., III., vii., nn. 3, 5.)

12. In the English monarchy the whole majesty of the State shines forth in the Single Person
who wears the Crown. The Crown is the centre of loyalty and gives dignity to the government.
The Crown is above all parties in the State, knows their secrets, their purposes when in office
as well as their acts, and is able to mediate, when party feeling threatens to bring government
to a standstill. The British Crown has more weight of influence than of prerogative. [Footnote 21]

[Footnote 21: Written in the month and year of jubilee, June, 1887.]

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 105, art. 1, in corp., ad 2, 5; Ar., Pol., III., xv.; ib.,
III., xvi., nn. 5-8; ib., VIII. (al. V.), xi. nn. 1-3.

SECTION V.--Of the Divine Right of Kings and the Inalienable Sovereignty of the People.

1. (Burke, Reflections on French Revolution.)

We here stand between two idols of the tribe of politicians. We may call them Gog and Magog:
Gog, the divine right of kings; Magog, the inalienable sovereignty of the people.

2. The position known in history as "the divine right of kings" may be best described as a
political popedom. It is the belief of Catholics that our Divine Redeemer, instituting His
Church by His own personal act as a perfect society and spiritual commonwealth, instituted
in like manner the polity under which He willed it to be governed, namely, the Papal monarchy,
begun in St. Peter and carried to completion according to our Lord's design under the line
of Popes, Peter's successors. The monarchy thus established is essential to the Catholic Church.
We speak not here of the temporal power which the Pope once enjoyed in the Roman States, but
of his spiritual sovereignty over all Christendom. The Pope cannot validly resign and put out
of his own and his successors' hands, nor can the Cardinals take away from him, nor the Episcopate,
one jot or tittle of this spiritual prerogative. He cannot, for instance, condition his infallibility
on the consent of a General Council, or surrender the canonization of saints to the votes of
the faithful at large. Such are the inalienable, Christ-given prerogatives of the Papacy. Henry
VIII. feloniously set himself up for Pope within the realm of England. Blending together temporal
and spiritual jurisdiction, he made out his rights and prerogatives as a monarch, even in the
civil order, to be inalienable as in the spiritual. Spiritual and civil attributes together
formed a jewelled circlet, one and indivisible, immoveably fixed on the brow of the King's
Most Sacred Majesty. Grown and swollen by their union with the spirituality, the civil attributes
of the Crown were exaggerated to the utmost, and likewise declared inalienable. They were exaggerated
till they came to embrace all the powers of government. The privileges of Parliament, and the
limitations to the royal authority, set forth in the Petition of Right in 1628, were regarded
as mere concessions tenable at the King's pleasure: from which point of view we understand
the readiness of so conscientious a monarch as Charles I. to act against such privileges after
he had allowed them. But to vest all the powers of government inalienably in the King, so that
whoever else may seem to partake in them, shall partake only by royal sufferance, is tantamount
to declaring monarchy the sole valid and lawful polity. This declaration the ministers, lay
and clerical, of our Charleses and Jameses do not seem to have made in express terms. It is,
however, contained by implication in their celebrated phrase of "the inalienable prerogatives
of the Crown," as interpreted by the stretches of prerogative which they advised. They virtually
asserted of one particular polity, or distribution of civil power (c. viii., s. iii., n. 5,
p. 312), that which is true only of civil power taken nakedly, apart from the mode of its distribution--they
said of monarchy what is true of government--that the sum of its power is a constant quantity
(c. viii., s. iv., n. 7, p. 322), and that it is of God antecedently to and irrespectively
of any determination of popular will. (c. viii., s. iv., n. 10, p. 325.)

3. Such a position is easily refuted, negatively, by its being wholly unproven, unless the
English Reformation, and the servile spirit in Church and State that promoted and was promoted
by the Reformation, can pass for a proof; and again the position is positively refuted, when
we come to consider how all that nature requires and God commands, is government under some
polity, not government everywhere under monarchy; there being many workable polities besides
monarchy. (s. iv., nn. 1-4, p. 319.)

4. The same argument that demolishes Gog, also overturns Magog. The two idols, opposed to one
another, stand upon the same pedestal, the identification of government in general with one
particular polity, as though a polity were the polity. The great assertor and worshipper of
the inalienable sovereignty of the people is Jean Jacques Rousseau. He starts from postulates
which we have already rejected--that all men are equal (c. viii., s. i., n. 9, p. 305)--that
man is born free (ib., n. 10)--that none can be bound to obey another without his own consent
(ib., n. 11)--that civil society is formed by an arbitrary convention (ib., n. 4)--which convention
is the Social Contract. (ib., n. 5.) From these unreasonable postulates Rousseau draws the
conclusion, logically enough, that the sovereign will in every State is the will of the majority
of the citizens: but the will of the majority, he goes on, cannot be alienated from the majority:
therefore neither can the sovereignty be alienated, but must abide permanently with the people
ruling by a majority of votes. The argumentation is excellent, but the premisses are all false.
The conclusion is vastly popular, few minds considering from what premisses it is drawn.

5. If sovereignty rests inalienably with the people, the one valid polity is pure democracy.
This proposition, however, Rousseau was not forward to formulate. The Stuarts had shrunk from
formulating a similar proposition about monarchy, though they virtually held and acted upon
it. They were willing enough to allow of a parliament, whose privileges and functions should
be at His Majesty's gracious pleasure. Thus Rousseau will allow you to have your senate, king,
emperor, if you will: only remember that he is the prince, not the sovereign. (Contrat Social,
l. iii., c. i.) The people collectively are the sovereign, always sovereign. The prince, that
is, he or they to whom the administration is entrusted--since all the citizens cannot administer
jointly--is the mere official and bailiff of the Sovereign People, bound to carry out their
mandate in all things, and removable at their pleasure. The people must meet periodically,
not at the discretion of the prince. "These meetings must open with two questions, never to
be omitted, and to be voted on separately. The first is: Whether it pleases the Sovereign (People)
to continue the present form of government. The second is: Whether it pleases the People to
leave the administration to the persons at present actually charged with it." (Contrat Social,
,l. iv., c. xviii.)

6. The claim of a pure democracy like this to supersede all other polities cannot be established
by abstract arguments. That we have seen in examining the Social Contract. The alternative
way of establishing such an exclusive claim would be to prove that the practical efficiency
of pure democracy immeasurably transcends the efficiency of every other possible polity. There
is indeed yet a third mode of proof resorted to. It is said that pure democracy everywhere
is coming and must come; and that what is thus on the line of human progress must be right
and best for the time that it obtains. A grand invention this of Positivist genius, the theory,
that whatever is is right; and the practice, always to swim with the stream! But supposing
that pure democracy is coming, how long is it likely to last? The answer may be gathered from
a review of the working difficulties of such a polity.

7. It is made only for a small State. Railway and telegraph have indeed diminished the difficulty;
and have removed the need of all the voters meeting in one place, as was done at Athens. Newspapers
echo and spread with addition the eloquence of popular orators, beyond the ears that actually
listen to them. Still, think what it would be to have a general election, upon every bill that
passes through Parliament: for that is what pure democracy comes to. The plan would scarcely
work with a total electorate of thirty thousand. You say the people would entrust a committee
with the passing of ordinary measures, reserving to themselves the supervision. I am not arguing
the physical impossibility, but the moral difficulties of such an arrangement. For either the
people throw the reins of government on the neck of this committee, or they keep a tight hold
upon the committee and guide it. In the former case the popular sovereignty becomes like that
of a monarch who leans much on favourites, a sovereignty largely participated in by others
than the nominal holder of the control. On the other hand, if the people do frequently interfere,
and take a lively interest in the doings of the subordinate assembly, the people themselves
must be a small body. An active governing body of three hundred thousand members would be as
great a wonder as an active man weighing three hundred pounds. Only in a small State is that
intense political life possible, which a pure democracy must live. There only, as Rousseau
requires, can the public service be the principal affair of the citizens. "All things considered,"
he says, "I do not see how it is any longer possible for the Sovereign (People) to preserve
amongst us the exercise of his rights, if the city is not very small." (Contrat Social, l.
iii., c. xv.) And the difficulty of size in a democracy is aggravated, if, as Socialists propose,
the democratic State is to be sole capitalist within its own limits. The perfect sovereignty
of the people means the disruption of empires, and the pushing to extremity of what is variously
described as local government, home rule, autonomy, and decentralisation, till every commune
becomes an independent State. But for defence in war and for commerce in peace, these little
States must federate; and federation means centralisation, external control over the majority
at home, restricted foreign relations, in fact the corruption of pure democracy.

8. Again, the perfect sovereignty of the people cannot subsist except upon the supposition
that one man is as much a born ruler as another, which means a levelling down of the best talent
of the community, for that is the only way in which capacities can be equalised--a very wasteful
and ruinous expedient, and one that the born leaders of the people will not long endure. Then
there is the proverbial fickleness of democracy, one day all aglow, and cooled down the next,
never pursuing any course steadily, in foreign policy least of all, though there the dearest
interests of the State are often at stake. As one who lived under such a government once put
it: "Sheer democracy is of all institutions the most ill-balanced and ill put together, like
a wave at sea restlessly tossing before the fitful gusts of wind: politicians come and go,
and not one of them cares for the public interest, or gives it a thought." (Quoted by Demosthenes,
Speech on the Embassy, p. 383 A.) What they do care for and think of sedulously, is pleasing
the people and clinging to office. In that respect they are the counterparts of the favourites
who cluster round the throne of a despotic monarch, and suck up his power by flattering him.
Peoples have their favourites as well as kings. To these persons, the Cleon or Gracchus of
the hour, they blindly commit the management of their concerns, as the roi faineant of old
Frankish times left everything to his Mayor of the Palace, till the Mayor came to reign in
his master's stead; and so has the popular favourite ere now developed into the military despot.
Strong-minded kings of course are not ruled by favourites, nor are highly intelligent and capable
peoples; but it is as hard to find a people fit to wield the power of pure democracy as to
find an individual fit for an absolute monarch, especially where the State is large.

9. From all this we conclude that the new-fashioned Magog of pure democracy, or the perfect
sovereignty of the people, is not to be worshipped to the overthrow and repudiation of all
other polities, any more than the old-fashioned Gog of pure monarchy, idolised by Stuart courtiers
under the name of "the divine right of kings." Neither of these is the polity: each is a polity,
but not one to be commonly recommended. The study of polities admirably illustrates the Aristotelian
doctrine of the Golden Mean (Ethics, c. v., s. iv., p. 77), teaching us ordinarily to affect
limited monarchy or limited democracy. But as the mean must ever be chosen in relation to ourselves,
a Constantine or an Athenian Demos may represent the proper polity in place under extraordinary
circumstances.

Reading.--The Month for July, 1886, pp. 338, seqq.

SECTION VI.--Of the Elementary and Original Polity.

1. "All things are double, one against another." (Ecclus. xlii. 25.) The son of Sirach may
have had in view the human body as divisible by a vertical median line into two symmetrical
halves. But in each of the halves thus made, the same organ or limb is never repeated twice
in exact likeness, nor do any two parts render exactly the same service. This variety of organs
in the bodies of the higher animals is called differentiation. As we descend in the animal
series we find less and less of differentiation, till we reach the lowest types, which are
little more than a mere bag, whence their name of Ascidians. In that State which has London
for its capital city, we behold one of the highest types of political existence. Sovereignty
is there divided, as usual in modern States, into three branches, Legislative, Judicial, and
Executive. Each of these branches is shared among many persons in various modes and degrees,
so that in practice it is not easy to enumerate and specify the holders of sovereignty, nor
to characterize so complex a polity. At the other end of the scale we may represent to ourselves
250 "squatters" forming an independent State in the far West of America. They are a pure democracy,
and the sovereignty belongs to them all jointly. Is a man to be tried for his life? The remaining
249 are his judges. Is a tax to be levied on ardent spirits? The 250 vote it. Is there a call
to arms? The 250 marshal themselves to war. That clearly is the condition of minimum differentiation,
where one citizen is in all political points the exact counterpart of all the rest. Of all
polities it is the most simple and elementary possible. And so far forth as the natural order
of evolution in polities, as in all other things, is from simple to compound, this is also
the original polity. It is also the residuary polity, that, namely, which comes to be, when
all other government in the State vanishes. Thus, if the Powder Plot had succeeded, and King
James I., with the royal family, Lords and Commons, with the judges and chief officers of the
Executive, had all perished together, the sovereign authority in England would have devolved
upon the nation as a whole.

2. Certain monarchical writers shrink from the recognition of pure democracy as either the
first or the last term of the series of polities. They do not recognize it as a polity at all.
When there is no governing body distinct from the mass of people at large, a government must
be formed, they say, by popular suffrage. Meanwhile, according to them, the sovereign power
rests not with the body of electors: either it is not yet created, or it has lapsed: but as
soon as the election is made, they see sovereignty breaking forth like the sun rising, in the
person, single or composite, who is the object of the people's choice. This would be the correct
view of the matter, if no choice were left to the electors, but they were obliged to acquiesce
in some prearranged polity, as a Monarchy, or a Council of Ten, and could do nothing more than
designate the Monarch or the Council. Under such a restriction the Cardinals elect the Pope.
But our electors can institute any polity they see fit. They are a Constituent Assembly. They
may fix upon a monarchy or a republic, two or one legislative chambers, a wide or a narrow
franchise, home rule or centralization: or they may erect a Provisional Government for five
years with another appeal to the people at the end of that term. More than that. They could
impose a protective duty upon corn, or endow the Roman Catholic religion, making such protection
or endowment a fundamental law (s. iv., n. 8, p. 323), and withholding from the government,
which they proceed to set up, the power of meddling with that law. They are then not only a
Constituent but likewise a Legislative Assembly. But this power of making laws and moulding
the future constitution of the State, what else is it but sovereign power, and indeed the very
highest manifestation of sovereignty?

3. So far we follow Suarez in his controversy with James I. The natural order of evolution
certainly is, that the State should be conceived in pure democracy, and thence develop into
other polities. But in speaking as though the natural order had always been the actual order,
Suarez seems to have been betrayed by the ardour of controversy into the use of incorrect expressions.
It is true in the abstract, as he says, that "no natural reason can be alleged why sovereignty
should be fixed upon one person, or one set of persons, rather than upon another, short of
the whole community." This is true, inasmuch as in the abstract we view men as men, in which
specific character they are all equal. But in the concrete and real life, the primeval citizens
who start a commonwealth are rarely alike and equal, as the founders of the American Republic
at the separation from Great Britain pretty well were, but some men, or some order of men,
will so much excel the rest in ability, position, or possessions, that the rest have really
no choice but to acquiesce in those gifted hands holding the sovereignty.

Readings.--Suarez, De Legibus, III., iii., 6; ib., III., iv., nn. 2, 3, 4; Defensio Fidei,
III., ii., nn. 7, 8, 9; Ar., Pol., III., xiv., 12; ib., VIII., x., nn. 7, 8; The Month for
July, 1886, pp. 342-345.

SECTION VII.--Of Resistance to Civil Power.

"When they say the King owes his crown to the choice of his people, they tell us that they
mean to say no more than that some of the King's predecessors have been called to the throne
by some sort of choice. Thus they hope to render their proposition safe by rendering it nugatory."
(Burke, Reflections on French Revolution.)

1. The great question about civil power is, not whence it first came in remote antiquity, but
whence it is now derived and flows continually as from its source, whether from the free consent
of subjects so long as that lasts, or whether it obtains independently of their consent. Can
subjects overthrow the ruler, or alter the polity itself, as often as they have a mind so to
do? or has the ruler a right to his position even against the will of his people? A parallel
question is, can a province annexed to an empire secede when it chooses, as South Carolina
and other Confederates once attempted secession from the American Union?

2. These questions raise two totally different issues, which must be first carefully distinguished
and then severally answered. The first point at issue is whether subjects may dethrone their
ruler, a people alter their polity, or a province secede from an empire, at discretion. The
second point is, whether the same may be done under pressure of dire injustice. One little
matter of phraseology must be rectified before an answer is returned to this first point. The
question whether subjects may dethrone their ruler at discretion, from the terms in which it
is drawn, can lead to none but a negative answer. From the fact that they are subjects, and
this man, or this body of men, their ruler, their allegiance cannot be wholly discretionary.
That sovereign is a mere man of straw, there is no soul and substance of sovereign power in
him, who may be knocked down and carted away for rubbish, any moment his so-called subjects
please. Rousseau is quite clear on this point. The true debateable form of the question is,
whether the people, being themselves sovereign, can remove at will the official persons who
actually administer the State; whether they can change the polity, and whether the inhabitants
of a province can secede. The answer now is simple: all depends upon the polity of the particular
country where the case comes for discussion. And if so it be that the constitution makes no
provision one way or another, any dispute that may occur must be settled by amicable arrangement
among the parties concerned: if they cannot amicably agree, they must fight. To save this last
eventuality, it were well that any claim which the people in any country may have to remove
princes and statesmen from office, to alter the polity, or to divide the empire, should be
made matter of the clearest understanding and most express and unambiguous stipulation. Even
so, such a provision must be generally viewed with disfavour by the political philosopher,
seeing how it tends to the weakening and undermining of government; whereas the same considerations
that make out government to be at all a boon and a necessity to human nature, argue incapacity
and instability in the governing power to be a deplorable evil. We must add, that where the
people keep in their hands any power to alter the polity, or transfer the administration to
other hands, there they hold part at least of the sovereignty; and the alteration or transference
is effected by them, not as subjects, but as partial ruler.

3. The second point we raised was, whether a dethronement, or an alteration of polity, or a
secession, may be brought about, not indeed at discretion for any cause, but under pressure
of dire injustice. It comes to this: May the civil power be resisted when it does grievous
wrong? Let us begin our reply with another question: May children strike their parents? No.
Not even in self-defence? when the parent is going about to do the child some grievous bodily
hurt? That is an unpleasant question, but the answer is plain. We can make no exceptions to
the rule of self-defence. Self-defence in extreme cases may raise the arm of a child against
its parent: in a similar extremity it may set a people in conflict with their civil ruler.
Still we regard with horror the idea of striking a parent, and speak of it generally as a thing
never to be done: so should we regard and speak of rebellion. We should not parade it before
men's eyes as a deed to be contemplated, admired, and readily put in execution.

4. The conditions under which the civil authority may be withstood in self-defence, are fairly
stated in the Dublin Review for April, 1865, p. 292. We must premise, that such a course of
self-defence once publicly entered upon is like a rock rolled over the brow of a steep mountain:
down it rolls and rebounds from point to point, gathering momentum in the descent, till in
the end the ruler, once defied, has to be dethroned, the polity subverted, the empire rent,
or they who made the resistance must perish.

"Resistance is lawful:--(1) When a government has become substantially and habitually tyrannical,
and that is when it has lost sight of the common good, and pursues its own selfish objects
to the manifest detriment of its subjects, especially where their religious interests are concerned.
(2) When all legal and pacific means have been tried in vain to recall the ruler to a sense
of his duty. (3) When there is a reasonable probability that resistance will be successful,
and not entail greater evils than it seeks to remove. (4) When the judgment formed as to the
badness of the government, and the prudence of resistance thereto, is not the opinion only
of private persons or of a mere party: but is that of the larger and better portion of the
people, so that it may morally be considered as the judgment of the community as a whole."

5. Side by side with this we will set the teaching of Leo XIII., Encyclical, Quod Apostolici.

"If ever it happens that civil power is wielded by rulers recklessly and beyond all bounds,
the doctrine of the Catholic Church does not allow of insurgents rising up against them by
independent action (proprio marte), lest the tranquillity of order be more and more disturbed,
or society receive greater injury thereby: and when things are come to such a pass that there
appears no other ray or hope of preservation, the same authority teaches that a remedy must
be sought in the merits of Christian patience and in earnest prayers to God."

The words we have italicized seem to point to conditions (4) and (3) respectively, as laid
down by the writer in the Dublin Review.

For an instance of a king dethroned, not proprio marte, but with every appearance at least
of an act of the whole nation, see the dethronement of Edward II., as related by Walsingham,
Historia Anglicana, I., pp. 186, 187, Rolls Series.

6. "We save ourselves the more virulent and destructive diseases of revolution, sedition, and
civil war, by submitting to the milder type of a change of ministry." (Times, April 7, 1880.)

7. It is not monarchical governments alone that can ever be resisted lawfully: but what is
sauce for the king's goose is sauce also for the people's gander. There is no special sanctity
attaching to democracy.

It might seem that, since resistance requires to be justified by the approval of "the larger
and better portion of the people" (n. 4, condition [4]) no just resistance can ever be offered
to the will of the democratic majority. But the said majority may be in divers ways coerced
and cajoled, a mere packed majority, while the malcontents may be, if not "the larger," clearly
"the better" portion of the community. (s. iv., n. 5, p. 321.)

Readings.--St. Thos., De Regimine Principum, i., 6; 2a 2a, q. 42, art. 2; 2a 2a, q, 69, art.
4, in corp.; Locke, Of Civil Government, nn. 200, 201, 203, 204, 208, 209, 223, 224, 225, 227,
229, 230, 232.

SECTION VIII.--Of the Right of the sword.

1. By the right of the sword is technically meant the right of inflicting capital punishment,
according to the Apostle's words: "But if thou do that which is evil, fear: for he beareth
not the sword in vain." (Rom. xiii. 4.) We commonly call it the power of life and death.

