I mean to retreat into Scotland very soon, to repose myself as I intended.  My Wife continues
here with her Mother;  here at least till the weather grow too hot, or a journey to join me
seem otherwise advisable for her.  She is gathering strength, but continues still weak enough.
I rest myself "on the sunny side of hedges" in native Annandale, one of the obscurest regions;
no man shall speak to me, I will speak to no man;  but have dialogues yonder with the old dumb
crags, of the most unfathomable sort.  Once rested, I think of returning to London for another
season.  Several things are beginning which I ought to see end before taking up my staff again.
In this enormous Chaos the very multitude of conflicting perversions produces something more
like a calm than you can elsewhere meet with. Men let you alone, which is an immense thing:
they do it even because they have no time to meddle with you.  London, or else the Backwoods
of America, or Craigenputtock!  We shall see.

I still beg the comfort of hearing from you.  I am sick of soul and body, but not incurable;
the loving word of a Waldo Emerson is as balm to me, medicinal now more than ever.  My Wife
earnestly joins me in love to the Concord Household.  May a blessing be in it, on one and all!
I do nowise give up the idea of sojourning there one time yet.  On the contrary, it seems almost
certain that I shall.  Good be with you.

Yours always,
            T. Carlyle*

----------- * Emerson wrote in his Diary, July 27, 1837:  "A letter today from Carlyle rejoiced
me.  Pleasant would life be with such companions.  But if you cannot have them on good mutual
terms you cannot have them.  If not the Deity but our wilfulness hews and shapes the new relations,
their sweetness escapes, as strawberries lose their flavor by cultivation." ----------

XVII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 13 September, 1837

My Dear Friend,--Such a gift as the French Revolution demanded a speedier acknowledgment. 
But you mountaineers that can scale Andes before breakfast for an airing have no measures for
the performance of lowlanders and valetudinarians.  I am ashamed to think, and will not tell,
what little things have kept me silent.

The French Revolution did not reach me until three weeks ago, having had at least two long
pauses by the way, as I find, since landing.  Between many visits received, and some literary
haranguing done, I have read two volumes and half the third and I think you a very good giant;
disporting yourself with an original and vast ambition of fun:  pleasure and peace not being
strong enough for you, you choose to suck pain also, and teach fever and famine to dance and
sing.  I think you have written a wonderful book, which will last a very long time.  I see
that you have created a history, which the world will own to be such.  You have recognized
the existence of other persons than officers, and of other relations than civism.  You have
broken away from all books, and written a mind.  It is a brave experiment, and the success
is great.  We have men in your story and not names merely;  always men, though I may doubt
sometimes whether I have the historic men.  We have great facts--and selected facts--truly
set down.  We have always the co-presence of Humanity along with the imperfect damaged individuals.
The soul's right of wonder is still left to us;  and we have righteous praise and doom awarded,
assuredly without cant.  Yes, comfort yourself on that particular, O ungodliest divine man!
thou cantest never.  Finally we have not--a dull word.  Never was there a style so rapid as
yours,--which no reader can outrun;  and so it is for the most intelligent.  I suppose nothing
will astonish more than the audacious wit and cheerfulness which no tragedy and no magnitude
of events can overpower or daunt.  Henry VIII loved a Man, and I see with joy my bard always
equal to the crisis he represents. And so I thank you for your labor, and feel that your contemporaries
ought to say, All hail, Brother! live forever: not only in the great Soul which thou largely
inhalest, but also as a named, person in this thy definite deed.

I will tell you more of the book when I have once got it at focal distance,--if that can ever
be, and muster my objections when I am sure of their ground.  I insist, of course, that it
might be more simple, less Gothically efflorescent.  You will say no rules for the illumination
of windows can apply to the Aurora borealis. However, I find refreshment when every now and
then a special fact slips into the narrative couched in sharp and businesslike terms.  This
character-drawing in the book is certainly admirable;  the lines are ploughed furrows;  but
there was cake and ale before, though thou be virtuous.  Clarendon surely drew sharp outlines
for me in Falkland, Hampden, and the rest, without defiance or sky-vaulting.  I wish I could
talk with you face to face for one day, and know what your uttermost frankness would say concerning
the book.  I feel assured of its good reception in this country.  I learned last Saturday that
in all eleven hundred and sixty-six copies of Sartor have been sold.  I have told the publisher
of that book that he must not print the History until some space has been given to people to
import British copies.  I have ordered Hilliard, Gray, & Co. to import twenty copies as an
experiment.  At the present very high rate of exchange, which makes a shilling worth thirty
cents, they think, with freight and duties, the book would be too costly here for sale, but
we confide in a speedy fall of Exchange;  then my books shall come. I am ashamed that you should
educate our young men, and that we should pirate your books.  One day we will have a better
law, or perhaps you will make our law yours.

I had your letter long before your book.  Very good work you have done in your lifetime, and
very generously you adorn and cheer this pilgrimage of mine by your love.  I find my highest
prayer granted in calling a just and wise man my friend.  Your profuse benefaction of genius
in so few years makes me feel very poor and useless.  I see that I must go on trust to you
and to all the brave for some longer time, hoping yet to prove one day my truth and love. 
There are in this country so few scholars, that the services of each studious person are needed
to do what he can for the circulation of thoughts, to the end of making some counterweight
to the money force, and to give such food as he may to the nigh starving youth.  So I religiously
read lectures every winter, and at other times whenever summoned.  Last year, "the Philosophy
of History," twelve lectures;  and now I meditate a course on what I call "Ethics."

Write to me, good friend, tell me if you went to Scotland,--what you do, and will do,--tell
me that your wife is strong and well again as when I saw her at Craigenputtock.  I desire to
be affectionately remembered to her.  Tell me when you will come hither.  I called together
a little club a week ago, who spent a day with me,--counting fifteen souls,--each one of whom
warmly loves you.  So if the French Revolution does not convert the "dull public" of your native
Nineveh, I see not but you must shake their dust from your shoes and cross the Atlantic to
a New England.  Yours in love and honor.

                                              --R. Waldo Emerson

May I trouble you with a commission when you are in the City? You mention being at the shop
of Rich in Red-Lion Square.  Will you say to him that he sent me some books two or three years
ago without any account of prices annexed?  I wrote him once myself, once through S. Burdett,
bookseller, and since through C.P. Curtis, Esq., who professes to be his attorney in Boston,--three
times,--to ask for this account.  No answer has ever come.  I wish he would send me the account,
that I may settle it.  If he persist in his self-denying contumacy, I think you may immortalize
him as a bookseller of the gods.

I shall send you an Oration presently, delivered before a literary society here, which is now
being printed.*  Gladly I hear of the Carlylet--so they say--in the new Westminster.  In his
admirable essay on Thoreau,--an essay which might serve as introduction and comment to the
letters of Carlyle and Emerson during these years,--Lowell speaks of the impression made by
this remarkable discourse.  It was our Yankee version of a lecture by Abelard, our Harvard
parallel to the last public appearances of Schelling."--My Study Windows, p. 197 ---------

XVIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 2 November, 1837

My Dear Friend,--Mr. Charles Sumner, a lawyer of high standing for his age, and editor or one
editor of a journal called The Jurist, and withal a lover of your writings, tells me he is
going to Paris and thence to London, and sets out in a few days. I cannot, of course, resist
his request for a letter to you, nor let pass the occasion of a greeting.  Health, Joy, and
Peace be with you!  I hope you sit still yet, and do not hastily meditate new labors.  Phidias
need not be always tinkering.  Sit still like an Egyptian.  Somebody told me the other day
that your friends here might have made a sum for the author by publishing Sartor themselves,
instead of leaving it with a bookseller. Instantly I wondered why I had never such a thought
before, and went straight to Boston, and have made a bargain with a bookseller to print the
French Revolution.  It is to be printed in two volumes of the size of our American Sartor,
one thousand copies, the estimate making the cost of the book say (in dollars and cents) $1.18
a copy, and the price $2.50.  The bookseller contracts with me to sell the book at a commission
of twenty percent on that selling price, allowing me however to take at cost as many copies
as I can find subscribers for.  There is yet, I believe, no other copy in the country than
mine:  so I gave him the first volume, and the printing is begun.  I shall take care that your
friends here shall know my contract with the bookseller, and so shall give me their names.
Then, if so good a book can have a tolerable sale, (almost contrary to the nature of a good
book, I know,) I shall sustain with great glee the new relation of being your banker and attorney.
They have had the wit in the London Examiner, I find, to praise at last;  and I mean that our
public shall have the entire benefit of that page. The Westminster they can read themselves.
The printers think they can get the book out by Christmas.  So it must be long before I can
tell you what cheer.  Meantime do you tell me, I entreat you, what speed it has had at home.
The best, I hope, with the wise and good withal.

I have nothing to tell you and no thoughts.  I have promised a course of Lectures for December,
and am far from knowing what I am to say;  but the way to make sure of fighting into the new
continent is to burn your ships.  The "tender ears," as George Fox said, of young men are always
an effectual call to me ignorant to speak.  I find myself so much more and freer on the platform
of the lecture-room than in the pulpit, that I shall not much more use the last;  and do now
only in a little country chapel at the request of simple men to whom I sustain no other relation
than that of preacher.  It is the new pulpit, and very much in vogue with my northern countrymen.
This winter, in Boston, we shall have more than ever:  two or three every night of the week.
When will you come and redeem your pledge?  The day before yesterday my little boy was a year
old,--no, the day before that,--and I cannot tell you what delight and what study I find in
this little bud of God, which I heartily desire you also should see.  Good, wise, kind friend,
I shall see you one day.  Let me hear, when you can write, that Mrs. Carlyle is well again.

                               --R. Waldo Emerson

XIX. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 8 December, 1837

My Dear Emerson,--How long it is since you last heard of me I do not very accurately know;
but it is too long.  A very long, ugly, inert, and unproductive chapter of my own history seems
to have passed since then.  Whenever I delay writing, be sure matters go not well with me;
and do you in that case write to me, were it again and over again,--unweariable in pity.

I did go to Scotland, for almost three months;  leaving my Wife here with her Mother.  The
poor Wife had fallen so weak that she gave me real terror in the spring-time, and made the
Doctor look very grave indeed:  she continued too weak for traveling:  I was worn out as I
had never in my life been.  So, on the longest day of June, I got back to my Mother's cottage;
threw myself down, I may say, into what we may call the "frightfulest magnetic sleep," and
lay there avoiding the intercourse of men.  Most wearisome had their gabble become;  almost
unearthly.  But indeed all was unearthly in that humor.  The gushing of my native brooks, the
sough of the old solitary woods, the great roar of old native Solway (billowing fresh out of
your Atlantic, drawn by the Moon):  all this was a kind of unearthly music to me;  I cannot
tell you how unearthly.  It did not bring me to rest;  yet towards rest I do think at all events,
the time had come when I behoved to quit it again.  I have been here since September evidently
another little "chapter" or paragraph, not altogether inert, is getting forward.  But I must
not speak of these things. How can I speak of them on a miserable scrap of blue paper? Looking
into your kind-eyes with my eyes, I could speak:  not here.  Pity me, my friend, my brother;
yet hope well of me:  if I can (in all senses) rightly hold my peace, I think much will yet
be well with me.  SILENCE is the great thing I worship at present;  almost the sole tenant
of my Pantheon.  Let a man know rightly how to hold his peace.  I love to repeat to myself,
"Silence is of Eternity."  Ah me, I think how I could rejoice to quit these jarring discords
and jargonings of Babel, and go far, far away!  I do believe, if I had the smallest competence
of money to get "food and warmth" with, I would shake the mud of London from my feet, and go
and bury myself in some green place, and never print any syllable more.  Perhaps it is better
as it is.

But quitting this, we will actually speak (under favor of "Silence") one very small thing;
a pleasant piece of news. There is a man here called John Sterling (Reverend John of the Church
of England too), whom I love better than anybody I have met with, since a certain sky-messenger
alighted to me at Craigenputtock, and vanished in the Blue again.  This Sterling has written;
but what is far better, he has lived, he is alive. Across several unsuitable wrappages, of
Church-of-Englandism and others, my heart loves the man.  He is one, and the best, of a small
class extant here, who, nigh drowning in a black wreck of Infidelity (lighted up by some glare
of Radicalism only, now growing dim too) and about to perish, saved themselves into a Coleridgian
Shovel-hattedness, or determination to preach, to preach peace, were it only the spent echo
of a peace once preached.  He is still only about thirty;  young;  and I think will shed the
shovel-hat yet perhaps.  Do you ever read Blackwood?  This John Sterling is the "New Contributor"
whom Wilson makes such a rout about, in the November and prior month "Crystals from a Cavern,"
&c., which it is well worth your while to see.  Well, and what then, cry you?--Why then, this
John Sterling has fallen overhead in love with a certain Waldo Emerson;  that is all.  He saw
the little Book Nature lying here;  and, across a whole silva silvarum of prejudices, discerned
what was in it;  took it to his heart,--and indeed into his pocket;  and has carried it off
to Madeira with him;  whither unhappily (though now with good hope and expectation) the Doctors
have ordered him.  This is the small piece of pleasant news, that two sky-messengers (such
they were both of them to me) have met and recognized each other;  and by God's blessing there
shall one day be a trio of us:  call you that nothing?

And so now by a direct transition I am got to the Oration.  My friend! you know not what you
have done for me there.  I could have wept to read that speech;  the clear high melody of it
went tingling through my heart;--I said to my wife, "There, woman!" She read;  and returned,
and charges me to return for answer, "that there had been nothing met with like it since Schiller
went silent."  My brave Emerson!  And all this has been lying silent, quite tranquil in him,
these seven years, and the "vociferous platitude" dinning his ears on all sides, and he quietly
answering no word;  and a whole world of Thought has silently built itself in these calm depths,
and, the day being come, says quite softly, as if it were a common thing, "Yes, I am here too."
Miss Martineau tells me, "Some say it is inspired, some say it is mad."  Exactly so;  no say
could be suitabler.  But for you, my dear friend, I say and pray heartily:  May God grant you
strength;  for you have a fearful work to do!  Fearful I call it;  and yet it is great, and
the greatest.  O for God's sake keep yourself still quiet!  Do not hasten to write;  you cannot
be too slow about it.  See Fenimore Cooper;--poor Cooper, he is down in it;  and had a climbing
faculty too.  Be steady, be quiet, be in no haste;  and God speed you well!  My space is done.

And so adieu, for this time.  You must write soon again.  My copy of the Oration has never
come:  how is this?  I could dispose of a dozen well.--They say I am to lecture again in Spring,
Ay de mi!  The "Book" is babbled about sufficiently in several dialects:  Fraser wants to print
my scattered Reviews and Articles; a pregnant sign.  Teufelsdrockh to precede.  The man "screamed"
once at the name of it in a very musical manner.  He shall not print a line;  unless he give
me money for it, more or less.  I have had enough of printing for one while,--thrown into "magnetic
sleep" by it!  Farewell my brother.

                         --T. Carlyle

O. Rich, it seems, is in Spain.  His representative assured me, some weeks since, that the
Account was now sent.  There is an Article on Sir W. Scott:  shocking;  invitissima Minerva!*

---------- *Carlyle's article on Scott published in the London and Westminster Review, No.
12.  Reprinted in his Critical and Miscellaneous Essays. ----------

Miss Martineau charges me to send kind remembrances to you and your Lady:  her words were kinder
than I have room for here.--Can you not, in defect or delay of Letter, send me a Massachusetts
Newspaper?  I think it costs little or almost nothing now;  and I shall know your hand.

XX. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 9 February, 1838

My Dear Friend,--It is ten days now--ten cold days--that your last letter has kept my heart
warm, and I have not been able to write before.  I have just finished--Wednesday evening--a
course of lectures which I ambitiously baptized "Human Culture," and read once a week to the
curious in Boston.  I could write nothing else the while, for weariness of the week's stated
scribbling. Now I am free as a wood-bird, and can take up the pen without fretting or fear.
Your letter should, and nearly did, make me jump for joy,--fine things about our poor speech
at Cambridge,-- fine things from CARLYLE.  Scarcely could we maintain a decorous gravity on
the occasion.  And then news of a friend, who is also Carlyle's friend.  What has life better
to offer than such tidings?  You may suppose I went directly and got me Blackwood, and read
the prose and the verse of John Sterling, and saw that my man had a head and a heart, and spent
an hour or two very happily in spelling his biography out of his own hand;--a species of palmistry
in which I have a perfect reliance.  I found many incidents grave and gay and beautiful, and
have determined to love him very much.  In this romancing of the gentle affections we are children
evermore.  We forget the age of life, the barriers so thin yet so adamantean of space and circumstance;
and I have had the rarest poems self-singing in my head of brave men that work and conspire
in a perfect intelligence across seas and conditions--and meet at last.  I heartily pray that
the Sea and its vineyards may cheer with warm medicinal breath a Voyager so kind and noble.

For the Oration, I am so elated with your goodwill that I begin to fear your heart has betrayed
your head this time, and so the praise is not good on Parnassus but only in friendship.  I
sent it diffidently (I did send it through bookselling Munroe) to you, and was not a little
surprised by your generous commendations. Yet here it interested young men a good deal for
an academical performance, and an edition of five hundred was disposed of in a month.  A new
edition is now printing, and I will send you some copies presently to give to anybody who you
think will read.

I have a little budget of news myself.  I hope you had my letter --sent by young Sumner--saying
that we meant to print the French Revolution here for the Author's benefit.  It was published
on the 25th of December.  It is published at my risk, the booksellers agreeing to let me have
at cost all the copies I can get subscriptions for.  All the rest they are to sell and to have
twenty percent on the retail price for their commission.  The selling price of the book is
$2.50;  the cost of a copy, $1.26; the bookseller's commission, 50 cts.;  so that T.C. only
gains 74 cts. on each copy they sell.  But we have two hundred subscribers, and on each copy
they buy you have $1.26, except in cases where the distant residence of subscribers makes a
cost of freight.  You ought to have three or four quarters of a dollar more on each copy, but
we put the lowest price on the book in terror of the Philistines, and to secure its accessibleness
to the economical Public.  We printed one thousand copies:  of these, five hundred are already
sold, in six weeks;  and Brown the bookseller talks, as I think, much too modestly, of getting
rid of the whole edition in one year.  I say six months.  The printing, &c. is to be paid and
a settlement made in six months from the day of publication;  and I hope the settlement will
be the final one.  And I confide in sending you seven hundred dollars at least, as a certificate
that you have so many readers in the West.  Yet, I own, I shake a little at the thought of
the bookseller's account.  Whenever I have seen that species of document, it was strange how
the hopefulest ideal dwindled away to a dwarfish actual.  But you may be assured I shall on
this occasion summon to the bargain all the Yankee in my constitution, and multiply and divide
like a lion.

The book has the best success with the best.  Young men say it is the only history they have
ever read.  The middle-aged and the old shake their heads, and cannot make anything of it.
In short, it has the success of a book which, as people have not fashioned, has to fashion
the people.  It will take some time to win all, but it wins and will win.  I sent a notice
of it to the Christian Examiner, but the editor sent it all back to me except the first and
last paragraphs;  those he printed.  And the editor of the North American declined giving a
place to a paper from another friend of yours.  But we shall see.  I am glad you are to print
your Miscellanies;  but--forgive our Transatlantic effrontery--we are beforehand of you, and
we are already selecting a couple of volumes from the same, and shall print them on the same
plan as the History, and hope so to turn a penny for our friend again.  I surely should not
do this thing without consulting you as to the selection but that I had no choice.  If I waited,
the bookseller would have done it himself, and carried off the profit.  I sent you (to Kennet)
a copy of the French Revolution.  I regret exceedingly the printer's blunder about the numbering
the Books in the volumes, but he had warranted me in a literal, punctual reprint of the copy
without its leaving his office, and I trusted him.  I am told there are many errors. I am going
to see for myself.  I have filled my paper, and not yet said a word of how many things.  You
tell me how ill was Mrs. C., and you do not tell me that she is well again.  But I see plainly
that I must take speedily another sheet.  I love you always.

                           --R.W. Emerson

XXI. Emerson to Carlyle

Boston, 12 March, 1838

My Dear Friend,--Here in a bookseller's shop I have secured a stool and corner to say a swift
benison.  Mr. Bancroft told me that the presence of English Lord Gosford in town would give
me a safe conveyance of pamphlets to you, so I send some Orations of which you said so kind
and cheering words.  Give them to any one who will read them.  I have written names in three.
You have, I hope, got the letter sent nearly a month ago, giving account of our reprint of
the French Revolution, and have received a copy of the same.  I learn from the bookseller today
that six hundred and fifty copies are sold, and the book continues to sell.  So I hope that
our settlement at the end of six months will be final, or nearly so.

I had nearly closed my agreement the other day with a publisher for the emission of Carlyle's
Miscellanies, when just in the last hour comes word from E.G. Loring that he has an authentic
catalogue from the Bard himself.  Now I have that, and could wish Loring had communicated his
plan to me at first, or that I had bad wit enough to have undertaken this matter long ago and
conferred with you.  I designed nothing for you or your friends; but merely a lucrative book
for our daily market that would have yielded a pecuniary compensation to you, such as we are
all bound to make, and have bought our Socrates a cloak.  Loring contemplated something quite
different,--a "Complete Works," etc.,--and now clamors for the same thing, and I do not know
but I shall have to gratify him and others at the risk of injury to this my vulgar hope of
dollars,--that innate idea of the American mind.  This I shall settle in a few days.  No copyright
can be secured here for an English book unless it contain original matter:  But my moments
are going, and I can only promise to write you quickly, at home and at leisure, for I have
just been reading the History again with many, many thoughts, and I revere, wonder at, and
love you.

                                --R. Waldo Emerson

XXII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 16 March, 1838

My Dear Emerson,--Your letter through Sumner was sent by him from Paris about a month ago;
the man himself has not yet made his appearance, or been heard of in these parts:  he shall
be very welcome to me, arrive when he will.  The February letter came yesterday, by direct
conveyance from Dartmouth.  I answer it today rather than tomorrow;  I may not for long have
a day freer than this.  Fronte capillata, post est occasio calva:  true either in Latin or English!

You send me good news, as usual.  You have been very brisk and helpful in this business of
the Revolution Book, and I give you many thanks and commendations.  It will be a very brave
day when cash actually reaches me, no matter what the number of the coins, whether seven or
seven hundred, out of Yankee-land;  and strange enough, what is not unlikely, if it be the
first cash I realize for that piece of work,--Angle-land continuing still insolvent to me!
Well, it is a wide Motherland we have here, or are getting to have, from Bass's Straits all
round to Columbia River, already almost circling the Globe:  it must be hard with a man if
somewhere or other he find not some one or other to take his part, and stand by him a little!
Blessings on you, my brother:  nay, your work is already twice blessed.--I believe after all,
with the aid of my Scotch thrift, I shall not be absolutely thrown into the streets here, or
reduced to borrow, and become the slave of somebody, for a morsel of bread.  Thank God, no!
Nay, of late I begin entirely to despise that whole matter, so as I never hitherto despised
it:  "Thou beggarliest Spectre of Beggary that hast chased me ever since I was man, come on
then, in the Devil's name, let us see what is in thee!  Will the Soul of a man, with Eternity
within a few years of it, quail before thee?"  Better, however, is my good pious Mother's version
of it:  "They cannot take God's Providence from thee; thou hast never wanted yet."*

---------- * In his Diary, May 9, 1838, Emerson wrote:  "A letter this morning from T. Carlyle.
How should he be so poor?  It is the most creditable poverty I know of." ----------

But to go on with business;  and the republication of books in
that Transoceanic England, New and improved Edition of England.
In January last, if I recollect right, Miss Martineau, in the
name of a certain Mr. Loring, applied to me for a correct List of
all my fugitive Papers;  the said Mr. Loring meaning to publish
them for my behoof.  This List she, though not without
solicitation, for I had small hope in it, did at last obtain, and
send, coupled with a request from me that you should be consulted
in the matter.  Now it appears you had of yourself previously
determined on something of the same sort, and probably are far on
with the printing of your Two select volumes.  I confess myself
greatly better pleased with it on that footing than on another.
Who Mr. Loring may be I know not, with any certainty, at first
hand;  but who Waldo Emerson is I do know;  and more than one god
from the machine is not necessary.  I pray you, thank Mr. Loring
for his goodness towards me (his intents are evidently charitable
and not wicked);  but consider yourself as in nowise bound at all
by that blotted Paper he has, but do the best you can for me,
consulting with him or not taking any counsel just as you see to
be fittest on the spot.  And so Heaven prosper you, both in your
"aroused Yankee" state, and in all others;--and let us for the
present consider that we have enough about Books and Guineas.  I
must add, however, that Fraser and I have yet made no bargain.
  We found, on computing, that there would be five good
volumes, including Teufelsdrockh.  For an edition of Seven
hundred and Fifty I demanded L50 a volume, and Fraser refused:
the poor man then fell dangerously ill, and there could not be a
word farther said on the subject;  till very lately, when it
again became possible, but has not yet been put in practice.  All
the world cries out, Why do you publish with Fraser?  "Because
my soul is sick of Booksellers, and of trade, and deception, and
'need and greed' altogether;  and this poor Fraser, not worse
than the rest of them, has in some sort grown less hideous to me
by custom."  I fancy, however, either Fraser will publish these
things before long;  or some Samaritan here will take me to some
bolder brother of the trade that will.  Great Samuel Johnson
assisted at the beginning of Bibliopoly;  small Thomas Carlyle
assists at the ending of it:  both are sorrowful seasons for a
man.  For the rest, people here continue to receive that
Revolution very much as you say they do there:  I am right
well quit of it;  and the elderly gentlemen on both sides of the
water may take comfort, they will not soon have to suffer the
like again.  But really England is wonderfully changed within
these ten years;  the old gentlemen all shrunk into nooks, some
of them even voting with the young.--The American ill-printed Two
and-a-half-dollars Copy shall, for Emerson's sake, be welcomest
to me of all.  Kennet will send it when it comes.

The Oration did arrive, with my name on it, one snowy night in January.  It is off to Madeira;
probably there now.  I can dispose of a score of copies to good advantage.  Friend Sterling
has done the best of all his things in the current Blackwood,-- "Crystals from a Cavern,"--which
see.  He writes kind things of you from Madeira, in expectation of the Speech.  I will gratify
him with your message;  he is to be here in May;  better, we hope, and in the way towards safety.
Miss Martineau has given you a luminous section in her new Book about America;  you are one
of the American "Originals,"--the good Harriet!

And now I have but one thing to add and to repeat:  Be quiet, be quiet!  The fire that is in
one's own stomach is enough, without foreign bellows to blow it ever and anon.  My whole heart
shudders at the thrice-wretched self-combustion into which I see all manner of poor paper-lanterns
go up, the wind of "popularity" puffing at them, and nothing left erelong but ashes and sooty
wreck.  It is sad, most sad.  I shun all such persons and circles, as much as possible;  and
pray the gods to make me a brick layer's hodbearer rather.  O the "cabriolets, neatflies,"
and blue twaddlers of both sexes therein, that drive many a poor Mrs. Rigmarole to the Devil!*--As
for me, I continue doing as nearly nothing as I can manage.  I decline all invitations of society
that are declinable:  a London rout is one of the maddest things under the moon;  a London
dinner makes me sicker for a week, and I say often, It is better to be even dull than to be
witty, better to be silent than to speak.

-------- * This sentence is a variation on one at the beginning of the article on Scott. --------

Curious:  your Course of Lectures "on Human Culture" seems to be on the very subject I am to
discourse upon here in May coming; but I am to call it "on the History of Literature," and
speak it, not write it.  While you read this, I shall be in the agonies!  Ah me! often when
I think of the matter, how my one sole wish is to be left to hold my tongue, and by what bayonets
of Necessity clapt to my back I am driven into that Lecture-room, and in what mood, and ordered
to speak or die, I feel as if my only utterance should be a flood of tears and blubbering!
But that, clearly, will not do.  Then again I think it is perhaps better so;  who knows?  At
all events, we will try what is in this Lecturing in London.  If something, well;  if nothing,
why also well.  But I do want to get out of these coils for a tune. My Brother is to be home
again in May;  if he go back to Italy, if our Lecturing proved productive, why might we not
all set off thitherward for the winter coming?  There is a dream to that effect.  It would
suit my wife, too:  she was alarmingly weak this time twelvemonth;  and I can only yet tell
you that she is stronger, not strong:  she has not ventured out except at midday, and rarely
then, since Autumn last;  she sits here patiently waiting Summer, and charges me to send you
her love.--America also always lies in the background:  I do believe, if I live long, I shall
get to Concord one day.  Your wife must love me. If the little Boy be a well-behaved fellow,
he shall ride on my back yet:  if not, tell him I will have nothing to do with him, the riotous
little imp that he is.  And so God bless you always, my dear friend!  Your affectionate,

                 --T. Carlyle

XXIII. Emerson to Carlyle*

Concord, 10 May, 1888

My Dear Friend,--Yesterday I had your letter of March.  It quickens my purpose (always all
but ripe) to write to you.  If it had come earlier I should have been confirmed in my original
purpose of publishing Select Miscellanies of T.C.  As it is, we are far on in the printing
of the first two volumes (to make 900 pages) of the papers as they stand in your list.  And
now I find we shall only get as far as the seventeenth or eighteenth article.  I regret it,
because this book will not embrace those papers I chiefly desire to provide people with, and
it may be some time, in these years of bankruptcy and famine, before we shall think it prudent
to publish two volumes more.  But Loring is a good man, and thinks that many desire to see
the sources of Nile.  I, for my part, fancy that to meet the taste of the readers we should
publish from the last backwards, beginning with the paper on Scott, which has had the best
reception ever known.  Carlyleism is becoming so fashionable that the most austere Seniors
are glad to qualify their reprobation by applauding this review.  I have agreed with the bookseller
publishing the Miscellanies that he is to guarantee to you one dollar on every copy he sells;
and you are to have the total profit on every copy subscribed for.  The retail price [is] to
be $2.50.  The cost of the work is not yet precisely ascertained. The work will probably appear
in six or seven weeks.  We print one thousand copies.  So whenever it is sold you shall have
one thousand dollars.

---------- * Printed in the Athenaeum, July 8, 1882. ----------

The French Revolution continues to find friends and purchasers. It has gone to New Orleans,
to Nashville, to Vicksburg.  I have not been in Boston lately, but have determined that nearly
or quite eight hundred copies should be gone.  On the 1st of July I shall make up accounts
with the booksellers, and I hope to make you the most favorable returns.  I shall use the advice
of Barnard, Adams, & Co. in regard to remittances.

When you publish your next book I think you must send it out to me in sheets, and let us print
it here contemporaneously with the English edition.  The eclat of so new a book would help
the sale very much.

But a better device would be, that you should embark in the "Victoria" steamer, and come in
a fortnight to New York, and in twenty-four hours more to Concord.  Your study arm-chair, fireplace,
and bed, long vacant, auguring expect you.  Then you shall revise your proofs and dictate wit
and learning to the New World.  Think of it in good earnest.  In aid of your friendliest purpose,
I will set down some of the facts.  God grant that you will come and bring that blessed wife,
whose protracted illness we heartily grieve to learn, and whom a voyage and my wife's and my
mother's nursing would in less than a twelvemonth restore to blooming health.  My wife sends
to her this message:  "Come, and I will be to you a sister."  What have you to do with Italy?
Your genius tendeth to the New, to the West.

I gladly hear what you say of Sterling.  I am foolish enough to be delighted with being an
object of kindness to a man I have never seen, and who has not seen me.  I have not yet got
the Blackwood for March, which I long to see, but the other three papers I have read with great
satisfaction.  They lie here on my table.  But he must get well.

As to Miss Martineau, I know not well what to say.  Meaning to do me a signal kindness (and
a kindness quite out of all measure of justice) she does me a great annoyance,--to take away
from me my privacy and thrust me before my time (if ever there be a time) into the arena of
the gladiators to be stared at.  I was ashamed to read, and am ashamed to remember.  Yet, as
you see her, I would not be wanting in gratitude to a gifted and generous lady who so liberally
transfigures our demerits.  So you shall tell her, if you please, that I read all her book
with pleasure but that part, and if ever I shall travel West or South, I think she has furnished
me with the eyes.  Farewell, dear wise man.  I think your poverty honorable above the common
brightness of that thorn-crown of the great.  It earns you the love of men and the praise of
a thousand years.  Yet I hope the angelical Beldame, all-helping, all-hated, has given you
her last lessons, and, finding you so striding a proficient, will dismiss you to a hundred
editions and the adoration of the booksellers.

                            --R.W. Emerson

I have never heard from Rich, who, you wrote, had sent his account to me.  Let him direct to
me at Concord.

A young engineer in Cambridge, by name McKean,* volunteers his services in correcting the proofs
of the Miscellanies,--and he has your errata,--for the love of the reading.  Shall we have
anthracite coal or wood in your chamber?  My old mother is glad you are coming.

----------- * The late Mr. Henry S. McKean, a son of Professor McKean, and a graduate of Harvard
College in 1828. -----------

XXIV. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 15 June, 1838

My Dear Emerson,--Our correspondence has fallen into a raveled state;  which would doubtless
clear itself could I afford to wait for your next Letter, probably tumbling over the Atlantic
brine about this very moment:  but I cannot afford to wait;  I must write straightway.  Your
answer to this will bring matters round again.  I have had two irregular Notes of your writing,
or perhaps three;  two dated March, one by Mr. Bancroft's Parcel,-- bringing Twelve Orations
withal;  then some ten days later, just in this very time, another Note by Mr. Sumner, whom
I have not yet succeeded in seeing, though I have attempted it, and hope soon to do it.  The
Letter he forwarded me from Paris was acknowledged already, I think.  And now if the Atlantic
will but float me in safe that other promised Letter!

I got your American French Revolution a good while ago.  It seems to me a very pretty Book
indeed, wonderfully so for the money;  neither does it seem what we can call incorrectly printed
so far as I have seen;  compared with the last Sartor it is correctness itself.  Many thanks
to you, my Friend, and much good may it do us all!  Should there be any more reprinting, I
will request you to rectify at least the three following errors, copied out of the English
text indeed;  nay, mark them in your own New-English copy, whether there be reprinting or not:
Vol. I. p. 81, last paragraph, for September read August; Vol. II. p. 344, first line, for
book of prayer read look of prayer;  p. 357, for blank read black (2d paragraph, "all black
").  And so basta.  And let us be well content about this F.R. on both sides of the water,
yours as well as mine.

"Too many cooks"! the Proverb says:  it is pity if this new apparition of a Mr. Loring should
spoil the broth.  But I calculate you will adjust it well and smoothly between you, some way
or other.  How you shall adjust it, or have adjusted it, is what I am practically anxious now
to learn.  For you are to understand that our English Edition has come to depend partly on
yours.  After long higgling with the foolish Fraser, I have quitted him, quite quietly, and
given "Saunders and Ottley, Conduit Street," the privilege of printing a small edition of Teufelsdrockh
(Five Hundred copies), with a prospect of the "Miscellaneous Writings" soon following.  Saunders
and Ottley are at least more reputable persons, they are useful to me also in the business
of Lecturing.  Teufelsdrockh is at Press, to be out very soon;  I will send you a correct copy,
the only one in America I fancy.  The enterprise here too is on the "half-profits" plan, which
I compute generally to mean equal partition of the oyster-shells and a net result of zero.
But the thing will be economically useful to me otherwise;  as a publication of the "Miscellaneous"
also would be;  which latter, however, I confess myself extremely unwilling to undertake the
trouble of for nothing.  To me they are grown or fast growing obsolete, these Miscellanies,
for most part;  if money lie not in them, what does lie for me?  Now it strikes me you will
infallibly edit these things, at least as well as I, and are doing it at any rate;  your printing
too would seem to be cheaper than ours:  I said to Saunders and Ottley, Why not have two hundred
or three hundred of this American Edition struck off with "London: Saunders and Ottley, Conduit
Street," on the title-page, and sent over hither in sheets at what price they have cost my
friends yonder?  Saunders of course threw cold water on this project, but was obliged to admit
that there would be some profit in it, and that for me it would be far easier.  The grand profit
for me is that people would understand better what I mean, and come better about me if I lectured
again, which seems the only way of getting any wages at all for me here at present.  Pray meditate
my project, if it be not already too late, hear what your Booksellers say about it, and understand
that I will not in any case set to printing till I hear from you in answer to this.

How my sheet is filling with dull talk about mere economics!  I must still add that the Lecturing
I talked of, last time, is verily over now;  and well over.  The superfine people listened
to the rough utterance with patience, with favor, increasing to the last.  I sent you a Newspaper
once, to indicate that it was in progress.  I know not yet what the money result is;  but I
suppose it will enable us to exist here thriftily another year; not without hope of at worst
doing the like again when the time comes.  It is a great novelty in my lot;  felt as a very
considerable blessing;  and really it has arrived, if it have arrived, in due time, for I had
begun to get quite impatient of the other method.  Poverty and Youth may do;  Poverty and Age
go badly together.--For the rest, I feel fretted to fiddle-strings; my head and heart all heated,
sick,--ah me!  The question as ever is:  Rest.  But then where?  My Brother invites us to come
to Rome for the winter;  my poor sick Wife might perhaps profit by it;  as for me, Natty Leatherstocking's
lodge in the Western Wood, I think, were welcomer still.  I have a great mind, too, to run
off and see my Mother, by the new railways.  What we shall do, whether not stay quietly here,
must remain uncertain for a week or two.  Write you always hither, till you hear otherwise.

The Orations were right welcome;  my Madeira one, returned thence with Sterling, was circulating
over the West of England. Sterling and Harriet stretched out the right hand with wreathed smiles.
I have read, a second or third time.  Robert Southey has got a copy, for his own behoof and
that of Lakeland:  if he keep his word as to me, he may do as much for you, or more. Copies
are at Cambridge;  among the Oxonians too;  I have with stingy discretion distributed all my
copies but two.  Old Rogers, a grim old Dilettante, full of sardonic sense, was heard saying,
"It is German Poetry given out in American Prose."  Friend Emerson ought to be content;--and
has now above all things, as I said, to be in no haste.  Slow fire does make sweet malt:  how
true, how true!  Also his next work ought to be a concrete thing;  not theory any longer, but
deed.  Let him "live it," as he says;  that is the way to come to "painting of it." Geometry
and the art of Design being once well over, take the brush, and andar con Dios!

Mrs. Child has sent me a Book, Philothea, and a most magnanimous epistle.  I have answered
as I could.  The Book is beautiful, but of a hectic beauty;  to me not pleasant, even fatal
looking.  Such things grow not in the ground, on Mother Earth's honest bosom, but in hothouses,--Sentimental-Calvinist
fire traceable underneath!  Bancroft also is of the hothouse partly:  I have a Note to send
him by Sumner;  do you thank him meanwhile, and say nothing about hothouses!  But, on the whole,
men ought in New England, too to "swallow their formulas";* there is no freedom till then:
yet hitherto I find only one man there who seems fairly on the way towards that, or arrived
at that.  Good speed to him.  I had to send my Wife's love:  she is not dangerously ill;  but
always feeble, and has to struggle to keep erect;  the summer always improves her, and this
summer too.  Adieu, dear Friend;  may Good always be with you and yours.

                                --T. Carlyle

----------- * This was the saying of the old Marquis de Mirabeau concerning his son, Il a hume
toutes les formules, and is used as a text by Carlyle in his article on Mirabeau.  "Of inexpressible
advantage is it that a man have 'an eye instead of a pair of spectacles merely';  that, seeing
through the formulas of things and even 'making away' with many a formula, he see into the
thing itself, and so know it and be master of it!" ----------

XXV. Emerson to Carlyle

Boston, 30 July, 1888

My Dear Sir,--I am in town today to get what money the booksellers will relinquish from their
faithful gripe, and have succeeded now in obtaining a first instalment, however small.  I enclose
to you a bill of exchange for fifty pounds sterling, which costs here exactly $242.22, the
rate of exchange being nine percent.  I shall not today trouble you with any account, for my
letter must be quickly ready to go by the steam-packet.  An exact account has been rendered
to me, which, though its present balance in our favor is less than I expected, yet, as far
as I understand it, agrees well with all that has been promised:  at least the balance in our
favor when the edition is sold, which the booksellers assure me will assuredly be done within
a year from the publication, must be seven hundred and sixty dollars, and what more Heaven
and the subscribers may grant.  I shall follow this letter and bill by a duplicate of the bill
in the next packet.

The Miscellanies is published in two volumes, a copy of which goes to you immediately.  Munroe
tells me that two hundred and fifty copies of it are already sold.  Writing in a bookshop,
my dear friend, I have no power to say aught than that I am heartily and always,

Yours,
     R. Waldo Emerson

XXVI. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 6 August, 1838

My Dear Friend,--The swift ships are slow when they carry our letters.  Your letter dated the
15th of June arrived here last Friday, the 3d of August.  That day I was in Boston, and I have
only now got the information necessary to answer it.  You have probably already learned from
my letter sent by the "Royal William" (enclosing a bill of exchange for L50), that our first
two volumes of the Miscellanies are published.  I have sent you a copy.  The edition consists
of one thousand copies.  Of these five hundred are bound, five hundred remain in sheets.  The
title-pages, of course, are all printed alike;  but the publishers assure me that new title-pages
can be struck off at a trifling expense, with the imprint of Saunders and Ottley.  The cost
of a copy in sheets or "folded" (if that means somewhat more?) is eighty-nine cents;  and bound
is $1.15.  The retail price is $2.50 a copy;  and the author's profit, $1;  and the bookseller's,
35 cents per copy;  according to my understanding of the written contract.

Here I believe you have all the material facts.  I think there is no doubt that the book will
sell very well here.  But if, for the reasons you suggest, you wish any part of it, you can
have it as soon as ships can bring your will.

When you see your copy, you will perceive that we have printed half the matter.  I should presently
begin to print the remainder, inclusive of the Article on Lockhart's Scott, in two more volumes;
but now I think I shall wait until I hear from you.  Of those books we will print a larger
edition, say twelve hundred and fifty or fifteen hundred, if you want a part of it in London.
For I feel confident now that our public here is one thousand strong.  Write me therefore by
the steam packet your wishes.

I am sure you will like our edition.  It has been most carefully corrected by two young gentlemen
who successively volunteered their services, (the second when the first was called away,) and
who, residing in Cambridge, where the book was printed, could easilier oversee it.  They are
Henry S. McBean, an engineer, and Charles Stearns Wheeler, a Divinity student,--working both
for love of you.  To one other gentleman I have brought you in debt, --Rev. Convers Francis*
(brother of Mrs. Child), who supplied from his library all the numbers of the Foreign Review
from which we printed the work.  We could not have done without his books, and he is a noble-hearted
man, who rejoices in you.  I have sent to all three copies of the work as from you, and I shall
be glad if you will remember to sanction this expressly in your next letter.

---------- * This worthy man and lover of good books was, from 1842 till his death in 1863,
Professor in the Divinity School of Harvard University. ----------

Thanks for the letter:  thanks for your friendliest seeking of friends for the poor Oration.
Poor little pamphlet, to have gone so far and so high!  I am ashamed.  I shall however send
you a couple more of the thin gentry presently, maugre all your hopes and cautions.  I have
written and read a kind of sermon to the Senior Class of our Cambridge Theological School a
fortnight ago; and an address to the Literary Societies of Dartmouth College;* for though I
hate American pleniloquence, I cannot easily say No to young men who bid me speak also.  And
both these are now in press.  The first I hear is very offensive.  I will now try to hold my
tongue until next winter.  But I am asked continually when you will come to Boston.  Your lectures
are boldly and joyfully expected by brave young men.  So do not forget us:  and if ever the
scale-beam trembles, I beseech you, let the love of me decide for America.  I will not dare
to tease you on a matter of so many relations, and so important, and especially as I have written
out, I believe, my requests in a letter sent two or three months ago,--but I must see you somewhere,
somehow, may it please God!  I grieve to hear no better news of your wife.  I hoped she was
sound and strong ere this, and can only hope still.  My wife and I send her our hearty love.

Yours affectionately,
                   R.W. Emerson

----------- * The Address at the Cambridge Divinity School was delivered on the 15th of July,
and that at Dartmouth College on the 24th of the same month.  The title of the latter was "Literary
Ethics." Both are reprinted in Emerson's Miscellanies.  These remarkable discourses excited
deep interest and wide attention.  They established Emerson's position as the leader of what
was known as the Transcendental movement.  They were the expressions of his inmost convictions
and his matured thought.  The Address at the Divinity School gave rise to a storm of controversy
which did not disturb the serenity of its author.  "It was," said Theodore Parker, "the noblest,
the most inspiring strain I ever listened to."  To others it seemed "neither good divinity
nor good sense." The Address at Dartmouth College set forth the high ideals of intellectual
life with an eloquence made irresistible by the character of the speaker.  From this time Emerson's
influence upon thought in America was acknowledged. ----------

XXVII. Carlyle to Emerson

Scotsbrig, Ecclefechan, (Annandale, Scotland) 25 September, 1838

My Dear Emerson,--There cannot any right answer be written you here and now;  yet I must write
such answer as I can.  You said, "by steamship";  and it strikes me with a kind of remorse,
on this my first day of leisure and composure, that I have delayed so long.  For you must know,
this is my Mother's house,--a place to me unutterable as Hades and the Land of Spectres were;
likewise that my Brother is just home from Italy, and on the wing thitherward or somewhither
swiftly again;  in a word, that all is confusion and flutter with me here,--fit only for silence!
My Wife sent me off hitherward, very sickly and unhappy, out of the London dust, several weeks
ago;  I lingered in Fifeshire, I was in Edinburgh, in Roxburghshire;  have some calls to Cumberland,
which I believe I must refuse;  and prepare to creep homeward again, refreshed in health, but
with a head and heart all seething and tumbling (as the wont is, in such cases), and averse
to pens beyond all earthly implements.  But my Brother is off for Dumfries this morning;  you
before all others deserve an hour of my solitude.  I will abide by business;  one must write
about that.

Your Bill and duplicate of a Bill for L50, with the two Letters that accompanied them, you
are to know then, did duly arrive at Chelsea;  and the larger Letter (of the 6th of August)
was forwarded to me hither some two weeks ago.  I had also, long before that, one of the friendliest
of Letters from you, with a clear and most inviting description of the Concord Household, its
inmates and appurtenances;  and the announcement, evidently authentic, that an apartment and
heart's welcome was ready there for my Wife and me;  that we were to come quickly, and stay
for a twelvemonth. Surely no man has such friends as I.  We ought to say, May the Heavens give
us thankful hearts!  For, in truth, there are blessings which do, like sun-gleams in wild weather,
make this rough life beautiful with rainbows here and there. Indicating, I suppose, that there
is a Sun, and general Heart of Goodness, behind all that;--for which, as I say again, let us
be thankful evermore.

My Wife says she received your American Bill of so many pounds sterling for the Revolution
Book, with a "pathetic feeling" which brought "tears" to her eyes.  From beyond the waters
there is a hand held out;  beyond the waters too live brothers.  I would only the Book were
an Epic, a Dante, or undying thing, that New England might boast in after times of this feat
of hers;  and put stupid, poundless, and penniless Old England to the blush about it!  But
after all, that is no matter;  the feebler the well- meant Book is, the more "pathetic" is
the whole transaction:  and so we will go on, fuller than ever of "desperate hope" (if you
know what that is), with a feeling one would not give and could not get for several money-bags;
and say or think, Long live true friends and Emersons, and (in Scotch phrase) "May ne'er waur
be amang us!"--I will buy something permanent, I think, out of this L50, and call it either
Ebenezer or Yankee-doodle-doo.  May good be repaid you manifold, my kind Brother!  may good
be ever with you, my kind Friends all!

But now as to this edition of the Miscellanies (poor things), I really think my Wife is wisest,
who says I ought to leave you altogether to your own resources with it, America having an art
of making money out of my Books which England is unfortunately altogether without.  Besides,
till I once see the Two Volumes now under way, and can let a Bookseller see them, there could
no bargain be made on the subject.  We will let it rest there, therefore.  Go on with your
second Two Volumes, as if there were no England extant, according to your own good judgment.
When I get to London, I will consult some of the blockheads with the Book in my hand:  if we
do want Two Hundred copies, you can give us them with a trifling loss.  It is possible they
may make some better proposal about an Edition here:  that depends on the fate of Sartor here,
at present trying itself;  which I have not in the least ascertained.  For the present, thank
as is meet all friends in your world that have interested themselves for me. Alas! I have nothing
to give them but thanks.  Henry McKean, Charles Wheeler, Convers Francis;  these Names shall,
if it please Heaven, become Persons for me, one day.  Well!--But I will say nothing more. 
That too is of the things on which all Words are poor to Silence.  Good to the Good and Kind!

A Letter from me must have crossed that descriptive Concord one, on the Ocean, I think.  Our
correspondence is now standing on its feet.  I will write to you again, whether I hear from
you or not, so soon as my hand finds its cunning again in London,--so soon as I can see there
what is to be done or said.  All goes decidedly better, I think.  My Wife was and is much healthier
than last year, than in any late year.  I myself get visibly quieter my preternatural Meditations
in Hades, apropos of this Annandale of mine, are calm compared with those of last year.  By
another Course of Lectures I have a fair prospect of living for another season;  nay, people
call it a "new profession" I have devised for myself, and say I may live by it as many years
as I like.  This too is partly the fruit of my poor Book;  one should not say that it was worth
nothing to me even in money.  Last year I fancied my Audience mainly the readers of it;  drawn
round me, in spite of many things, by force of it.  Let us be content.  I have Jesuits, Swedenborgians,
old Quakeresses, omne cum Proteus, --God help me, no man ever had so confused a public!--I
salute you, my dear Friend, and your hospitable circle.  May blessings be on your kind household,
on your kind hearts!

                                          --T. Carlyle

A copy of the English Teufelsdrockh has lain with your name on it these two months in Chelsea;
waiting an opportunity.  It is worth nothing to you:  a dingy, ill-managed edition;  but correct
or nearly correct as to printing;  it is right that such should be in your hands in case of
need.  The New England Pamphlets will be greedily expected.  More than one inquires of me,
Has that Emerson of yours written nothing else?  And I have lent them the little Book Nature,
till it is nearly thumbed to pieces. Sterling is gone to Italy for the winter since I left
town; swift as a flash!  I cannot teach him the great art of sitting still;  his fine qualities
are really like to waste for want of that.

I read your paragraph to Miss Martineau;  she received it, as she was bound, with a good grace.
But I doubt, I doubt, O Ralph Waldo Emerson, thou hast not been sufficiently ecstatic about
her,--thou graceless exception, confirmatory of a rule!  In truth there are bores, of the first
and of all lower magnitudes. Patience and shuffle the cards.

XXVIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 17 October, 1838

My Dear Friend,--I am quite uneasy that I do not hear from you. On the 21st of July I wrote
to you and enclosed a remittance of L50 by a Bill of Exchange on Baring Brothers, drawn by
Chandler, Howard, & Co., which was sent in the steamer "Royal William."  On the 2d of August
I received your letter of inquiry respecting our edition of the Miscellanies, and wrote a few
days later in reply, that we could send you out two or three hundred copies of our first two
volumes, in sheets, at eighty-nine cents per copy of two volumes, and the small additional
price of the new title- page.  I said also that I would wait until I heard from you before
commencing the printing of the last two volumes of the Miscellanies, and, if you desired it,
would print any number of copies with a title-page for London.  This letter went in a steamer--he
"Great Western" probably--about the 10th or 12th of August.  (Perhaps I misremember the names
[of the steamers], and the first should be last.)  I have heard nothing from you since. I trust
my letters have not miscarried.  (A third was sent also by another channel inclosing a duplicate
of the Bill of Exchange.)  With more fervency, I trust that all goes well in the house of my
friend,--and I suppose that you are absent on some salutary errand of repairs and recreation.
Use, I pray you, your earliest hour in certifying me of the facts.

One word more in regard to business.  I believe I expressed some surprise, in the July letter,
that the booksellers should have no greater balance for us at this settlement.  I have since
studied the account better, and see that we shall not be disappointed in the year of obtaining
at least the sum first promised,--seven hundred and sixty dollars;  but the whole expense of
the edition is paid out of the copies first sold, and our profits depend on the last sales.
The edition is almost gone, and you shall have an account at the end of the year.

In a letter within a twelvemonth I have urged you to pay us a visit in America, and in Concord.
I have believed that you would come one day, and do believe it.  But if, on your part, you
have been generous and affectionate enough to your friends here--or curious enough concerning
our society--to wish to come, I think you must postpone, for the present, the satisfaction
of your friendship and your curiosity.  At this moment I would not have you here, on any account.
The publication of my Address to the Divinity College (copies of which I sent you) has been
the occasion of an outcry in all our leading local newspapers against my "infidelity," "pantheism,"
and "atheism."  The writers warn all and sundry against me, and against whatever is supposed
to be related to my connection of opinion, &c.;  against Transcendentalism, Goethe, and Carlyle.
I am heartily sorry to see this last aspect of the storm in our washbowl.  For, as Carlyle
is nowise guilty, and has unpopularities of his own, I do not wish to embroil him in my parish
differences.  You were getting to be a great favorite with us all here, and are daily a greater
with the American public, but just now, in Boston, where I am known as your editor, I fear
you lose by the association.  Now it is indispensable to your right influence here, that you
should never come before our people as one of a clique, but as a detached, that is, universally
associated man;  so I am happy, as I could not have thought, that you have not yielded yourself
to my entreaties.  Let us wait a little until this foolish clamor be overblown.  My position
is fortunately such as to put me quite out of the reach of any real inconvenience from the
panic-strikers or the panic-struck; and, indeed, so far as this uneasiness is a necessary result
of mere inaction of mind, it seems very clear to me that, if I live, my neighbors must look
for a great many more shocks, and perhaps harder to bear.

The article on German Religious Writers in the last Foreign Quarterly Review suits our meridian
as well as yours;  as is plainly signified by the circumstance that our newspapers copy into
their columns the opening tirade and no more.  Who wrote that paper?  And who wrote the paper
on Montaigne in the Westminster?  I read with great satisfaction the Poems and Thoughts of
Archaeus in Blackwood.  "The Sexton's Daughter" is a beautiful poem:  and I recognize in them
all the Soul, with joy and love.  Tell me of the author's health and welfare;  or, will not
he love me so much as to write me a letter with his own hand?  And tell me of yourself, what
task of love and wisdom the Muses impose;  and what happiness the good God sends to you and
yours.  I hope your wife has not forgotten me.

Yours affectionately,
                 R.W. Emerson

The Miscellanies, Vols. I. and II., are a popular book.  About five hundred copies have been
sold.  The second article on Jean Paul works with might on the inner man of young men.  I hate
to write you letters on business and facts like this.  There are so few Friends that I think
some time I shall meet you nearer, for I love you more than is fit to say.  W.H. Channing has
written a critique on you, which I suppose he has sent you, in the Boston Review.

XXIX. Carlyle to Emerson

5 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London 7 November, 1838

My Dear Friend,--It is all right;  all your Letters with their inclosures have arrived in due
succession:  the last, inquiring after the fate of the others, came this morning.  I was in
Scotland, as you partly conjecture;  I wrote to you already (though not without blamable delay),
from my Mother's house in Annandale, a confused scrawl, which I hope has already got to hand,
and quieted your kind anxieties.  I am as well as usual in health, my Wife better than usual;
nothing is amiss, except my negligence and indolence, which has put you to this superfluous
solicitude on my account.  However, I have an additional Letter by it;  you must pardon me,
you must not grudge me that undeserved pleasure, the reward of evil-doing.  I may well say,
you are a blessing to me on this Earth;  no Letter comes from you with other than good tidings,--or
can come while you live there to love me.

The Bill was thrust duly into Baring's brass slit "for acceptance," on my return hither some
three weeks ago;  and will, no doubt, were the days of grace run, come out in the shape of
Fifty Pounds Sterling;  a very curious product indeed.  Do you know what I think of doing with
it?  Dyspepsia, my constant attendant in London, is incapable of help in my case by any medicine
or appliance except one only, Riding on horseback.  With a good horse to whirl me over the
world for two hours daily, I used to keep myself supportably well.  Here, the maintenance of
a Horse far transcends my means;  yet it seems hard I should not for a little while be in a
kind of approximate health in this Babylon where I have my bread to seek it is like swimming
with a millstone round your neck,--ah me!  Will not that do?  My Wife says it is the best plan
I have had for years, and strongly urges it on.  My kind friends!

As to those copies of the Carlyle Miscellanies, I unfortunately still can say nothing, except
what was said in the former (Scotch) letter, that you must proceed in the business with an
eye to America and not to us.  My Booksellers, Saunders and Ottley, have no money for me, no
definite offer in money to make for those Two Hundred copies, of which you seem likely to make
money if we simply leave them alone.  I have asked these Booksellers, I have asked Fraser too:
What will you give me in ready money for Two Hundred and Fifty copies of that work, sell it
afterwards as you can?  They answer always, We must see it first.  Now the copy long ago sent
me has never come to hand;  I have asked for it of Kennet, but without success;  I have nothing
for it but to wait the winds and chances.  Meanwhile Saunders and Ottley want forsooth a Sketches
of German Literature in three volumes:  then a Miscellanies in three volumes:  that is their
plan of publishing an English edition;  and the outlook they hold out for me is certain trouble
in this matter, and recompense entirely uncertain.  I think on the whole it is extremely likely
I shall apply to you for Two Hundred and Fifty copies (that is their favorite number) of these
four volumes, (nay, if it be of any moment, you can bind me down to it now, and take it for
sure,) but I cannot yet send you the title-page;  no bookseller purchasing till "we see it
first."  But after all, will it suit America to print an unequal number of your two pairs of
volumes?  Do not the two together make one work?  On the whole, consider that I shall in all
likelihood want Two Hundred and Fifty copies, and consider it certain if that will serve the
enterprise:  we must leave it here today.  I will stir in it now, however, and take no rest
till in one way or other you do get a title-page from me, or some definite deliverance on the
matter.  O Athenians, what a trouble I give, having got your applauses!

Kennet the Bookseller gave me yesterday (on my way to "the City" with that Brother of mine,
the Italian Doctor who is here at present and a great lover of yours) ten copies of your Dartmouth
Oration:  we read it over dinner in a chop-house in Bucklersbury, amid the clatter of some
fifty stand of knives and forks;  and a second time more leisurely at Chelsea here.  A right
brave Speech;  announcing, in its own way, with emphasis of full conviction, to all whom it
may concern, that great forgotten truth, Man is still man.  May it awaken a pulsation under
the ribs of Death!  I believe the time is come for such a Gospel. They must speak it out who
have it,--with what audience there may be.  I have given away two copies this morning;  I will
take care of the rest.  Go on, and speed.--And now where is the heterodox Divinity one, which
awakens such "tempest in a washbowl," brings Goethe, Transcendentalism, and Carlyle into question,
and on the whole evinces "what [difference] New England also makes between Pan-theism and Pot-theism"?
I long to see that;  I expect to congratulate you on that too.  Meanwhile we will let the washbowl
storm itself out;  and Emerson at Concord shall recognize it for a washbowl storming, and hold
on his way.  As to my share in it, grieve not for half an instant.  Pantheism, Pottheism, Mydoxy,
Thydoxy, are nothing at all to me;  a weariness the whole jargon, which I avoid speaking of,
decline listening to:  Live, for God's sake, with what Faith thou couldst get;  leave off speaking
about Faith!  Thou knowest it not.  Be silent, do not speak.--As to you, my friend, you are
even to go on, giving still harder shocks if need be;  and should I come into censure by means
of you, there or here, think that I am proud of my company;  that, as the boy Hazlitt said
after hearing Coleridge, "I will go with that man";  or, as our wild Burns has it,

    "Wi' sic as he, where'er he be,
     May I be saved or damned!"

Oime! what a foolish goose of a world this is!  If it were not [for] here and there an articulate-speaking
man, one would be all-too lonely.

This is nothing at all like the letter I meant to write you;  but I will write again, I trust,
in few days, and the first paragraph shall, if possible, hold all the business.  I have much
to tell you, which perhaps is as well not written.  O that I did see you face to face!  But
the time shall come, if Heaven will.  Why not you come over, since I cannot?  There is a room
here, there is welcome here, and two friends always.  It must be done one way or the other.
I will take, care of your messages to Sterling.  He is in Florence;  he was the Author of Montaigne.*
The Foreign Quarterly Reviewer of Strauss I take to be one Blackie, an Advocate in Edinburgh,
a frothy, semi-confused disciple of mine and other men's;  I guess this, but I have not read
the Article: the man Blackie is from Aberdeen, has been roaming over Europe, and carries more
sail than ballast.  Brother John, spoken of above, is knocking at the door even now;  he is
for Italy again, we expect, in few days, on a better appointment:  know that you have a third
friend in him under this roof,--a man who quarrels with me all day in a small way, and loves
me with the whole soul of him.  My Wife demanded to have "room for one line."  What she is
to write I know not, except it be what she has said, holding up the pamphlet, "Is it not a
noble thing?  None of them all but he," &c., &c.  I will write again without delay when the
stray volumes arrive;  before that if they linger.  Commend me to all the kind household of
Concord:  Wife, Mother, and Son.

Ever yours,
           T. Carlyle

--------- * See ante, p. 184.  Sterling's essay on Montaigne was his first contribution, in
1837, to the London and Westminster Review.  It is reprinted in "Essays and Tales, by John
Sterling, collected and edited, with a Memoir of his Life, by Julius Charles Hare," London,
1848, Vol. I. p. 129. ----------

"Forgotten you?"  O, no indeed!  When I think of America, it is of you,--neither Harriet Martineau
nor any one else succeeds in giving me a more extended idea of it.  When I wish to see America
it is still you, and those that are yours.  I read all that you write with an interest which
I feel in no other writing but my Husband's,--or it were nearer the truth to say there is no
other writing of living men but yours and his that I can read. God Bless you and Weib and Kind.
Surely I shall some day see you all.

Your affectionate
               Jane Carlyle

XXX. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 15 November, 1835

Dear Emerson,--Hardly above a week ago, I wrote you in immediate answer to some friendly inquiries
produced by negligence of mine: the Letter is probably tumbling on the salt waves at this hour,
in the belly of the "Great Western";  or perhaps it may be still on firm land waiting, in which
case this will go along with it. I had written before out of Scotland a Letter of mere acknowledgment
and postponement;  you must have received that before now, I imagine.  Our small piece of business
is now become articulate, and I will despatch it in a paragraph.  Pity my stupidity that I
did not put the thing on this footing long ago! It never struck me till the other day that
though no copy of our Miscellanies would turn up for inspection here, and no Bookseller would
bargain for a thing unseen, I myself might bargain, and leave their hesitations resting on
their own basis.  In fine, I have rejected all their schemes of printing Miscellaneous Works
here, printing Sketches of German Literature, or printing anything whatever on the "half-profits
system," which is like toilsomely scattering seed into the sea: and I settled yesterday with
Fraser to give him the American sheets, and let them sell themselves, on clear principles,
or remain unsold if they like.  I find it infinitely the best plan, and to all appearance the
profitablest as to money that could have been devised for me.

What you have to do therefore is to get Two Hundred and Fifty copies (in sheets) of the whole
Four Volumes, so soon as the second two are printed, and have them, with the proper title-
page, sent off hither to Fraser's address;  the sooner the better.  The American title-page,
instead of "Boston," &c. at the bottom, will require to bear, in three lines "London: / James
Fraser, 215 Regent Street, / 1839."  Fraser is anxious that you should not spell him with a
z;  your man can look on the Magazine and beware.  I suppose also you should print labels for
the backs of the four volumes, to be used by the half-binder;  they do the books in that way
here now:  but if it occasion any difficulty, never mind this;  it was not spoken of to Fraser,
and is my own conjecture merely;  the thing can be managed in various other ways.  Two Hundred
and Fifty copies, then, of the entire book:  there is nothing else to be attended to that you
do not understand as well as I.  Fraser will announce it in his Magazine:  the eager, select
public will wait.  Probably, there is no chance before the middle of March or so?  Do not hurry
yourselves, or at all change your rate for us:  but so soon as the work is ready in the course
of Nature, the earliest conveyance to the Port of London will bring a little cargo which one
will welcome with a strange feeling!  I declare myself delighted with the plan;  an altogether
romantic kind of plan, of romance and reality:  fancy me riding on Yankee withal, at the time,
and considering what a curious world this is, that bakes bread for one beyond the great Ocean-stream,
and how a poor man is not left after all to be trodden into the gutters, though the fight went
sore against him, and he saw no backing anywhere. Allah akbar! God is great;  no saying truer
than that.--And so now, by the blessing of Heaven, we will talk no more of business this day.

My employments, my outlooks, condition, and history here, were a long chapter;  on which I
could like so well to talk with you face to face;  but as for writing of them, it is a mere
mockery. In these four years, so full of pain and toil, I seem to have lived four decades.
By degrees, the creature gets accustomed to its element;  the salamander learns to live in
fire, and be of the same temperature with it.  Ah me! I feel as if grown old innumerable things
are become weary, flat, stale, and unprofitable.  And yet perhaps I am not old, only wearied,
and there is a stroke or two of work in me yet.  For the rest, the fret and agitation of this
Babylon wears me down:  it is the most unspeakable life;  of sunbeams and miry clay;  a contradiction
which no head can reconcile.  Pain and poverty are not wholesome; but praise and flattery along
with them are poison:  God deliver us from that;  it carries madness in the very breath of
it!  On the whole, I say to myself, what thing is there so good as rest?  A sad case it is
and a frequent one in my circle, to be entirely cherubic, all face and wings.  "Mes enfans,"
said a French gentleman to the cherubs in the Picture, "Mes enfans, asseyez-vous?"--"Monseigneur,"
answer they, "il n'y a pas de quoi!"  I rejoice rather in my laziness;  proving that I can
sit.--But, after all, ought I not to be thankful?  I positively can, in some sort, exist here
for the while;  a thing I had been for many years ambitious of to no purpose.  I shall have
to lecture again in spring, Heaven knows on what;  it will be a wretched fever for me;  but
once through it there will be board wages for another year.  The wild Ishmael can hunt in this
desert too, it would seem.  I say, I will be thankful;  and wait quietly what farther is to
come, or whether anything farther. But indeed, to speak candidly, I do feel sometimes as if
another Book were growing in me,--though I almost tremble to think of it. Not for this winter,
O no!  I will write an Article merely, or some such thing, and read trash if better be not.
This, I do believe, is my horoscope for the next season:  an Article on something about New-Year's-day
(the Westminster Editor, a good- natured, admiring swan-goose from the North Country, will
not let me rest);  then Lectures;  then--what?  I am for some practical subject too;  none
of your pictures in the air, or aesthetisches Zeug (as Mullner's wife called it, Mullner of
the Midnight Blade):  nay, I cannot get up the steam on any such best;  it is extremely irksome
as well as fruitless at present.  In the next Westminster Review, therefore, if you see a small
scrub of a paper signed "S.P." on one Varnhagen a German, say that it is by "Simon Pure," or
by "Scissars and Paste," or even by "Soaped Pig"--whom no man shall catch!  Truly it is a secret
which you must not mention:  I was driven to it by the Swan-goose above mentioned, not Mill
but another.  Let this suffice for my winter's history:  may the summer be more productive.

As for Concord and New England, alas! my Friend, I should but deface your Idyllion with an
ugly contradiction, did I come in such mood as mine is.  I am older in years than you;  but
in humor I am older by centuries.  What a hope is in that ever young heart, cheerful, healthful
as the morning!  And as for me, you have no conception what a crabbed, sulky piece of sorrow
and dyspepsia I am grown;  and growing, if I do not draw bridle.  Let me gather heart a little!
I have not forgotten Concord or the West;  no, it lies always beautiful in the blue of the
horizon, afar off and yet attainable;  it is a great possession to me; should it even never
be attained.  But I have got to consider lately that it is you who are coming hither first.
That is the right way, is it not?  New England is becoming more than ever part of Old England;
why, you are nearer to us now than Yorkshire was a hundred years ago;  this is literally a
fact: you can come without making your will.  It is one of my calculations that all Englishmen
from all zones and hemispheres will, for a good while yet, resort occasionally to the Mother-
Babel, and see a thing or two there.  Come if you dare;  I said there was a room, house-room
and heart-room, constantly waiting you here, and you shall see blockheads by the million. Pickwick
himself shall be visible;  innocent young Dickens reserved for a questionable fate.  The great
Wordsworth shall talk till you yourself pronounce him to be a bore.  Southey's complexion is
still healthy mahogany-brown, with a fleece of white hair, and eyes that seem running at full
gallop.  Leigh Hunt, "man of genius in the shape of a Cockney," is my near neighbor, full of
quips and cranks, with good humor and no common sense.  Old Rogers with his pale head, white,
bare, and cold as snow, will work on you with those large blue eyes, cruel, sorrowful, and
that sardonic shelf-chin:--This is the Man, O Rogers, that wrote the German Poetry in American
Prose;  consider him well!--But whither am I running?  My sheet is done!  My Brother John returns
again almost immediately to Italy.  He has got appointed Traveling Doctor to a certain Duke
of Buccleuch, the chief of our Scotch Dukes:  an excellent position for him as far as externals
go.  His departure will leave me lonelier;  but I must reckon it for the best:  especially
I must begin working. Harriet Martineau is coming hither this evening;  with beautiful enthusiasm
for the Blacks and others.  She is writing a Novel. The first American book proved generally
rather wearisome, the second not so;  we have since been taught (not I) "How to observe." 
Suppose you and I promulgate a treatise next, "How to see"?  The old plan was, to have a pair
of eyes first of all, and then to open them:  and endeavor with your whole strength to look.
The good Harriet!  But "God," as the Arabs say, "has given to every people a Prophet (or Poet)
in its own speech": and behold now Unitarian mechanical Formalism was to have its Poetess too;
and stragglings of genius were to spring up even through that like grass through a Macadam
highway!--Adieu, my Friend, I wait still for your heterodox Speech;  and love you always.

                           --T. Carlyle

An English Sartor goes off to you this day;  through Kennet, to C.C. Little and J. Brown of
Boston;  the likeliest conveyance. It is correctly printed, and that is all.  Its fate here
(the fate of the publication, I mean) remains unknown;  "unknown and unimportant."

XXXI. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 2 December, 1838

My Dear Emerson,--Almost the very day after my last Letter went off, the long-expected two
volumes of Miscellanies arrived. The heterodox pamphlet has never yet come to hand.  I am now
to write you again about that Miscellany concern the fourth letter, I do believe;  but it is
confirmatory of the foregoing three, and will be the last, we may hope.

Fraser is charmed with the look of your two volumes;  declares them unsurpassable by art of
his;  and wishes (what is the main part of this message) that you would send his cargo in the
bound state, bound and lettered as these are, with the sole difference that the leaves be not
cut, or shaved on the sides, our English fashion being to have them rough.  He is impatient
that the Book were here;  desires further that it be sent to the Port of London rather than
another Port, and that it be packed in boxes "to keep the covers of the volumes safe,"--all
which I doubt not the Packers and the Shippers of New England have dexterity enough to manage
for the best, without desire of his. If you have printed off nothing yet, I will desire for
my own behoof that Two hundred and Sixty be the number sent;  I find I shall need some ten
to give away:  if your first sheet is printed off, let the number stand as it was.  It would
be an improvement if you could print our title-pages on paper a little stronger; that would
stand ink, I mean:  the fly leaves in the same, if you have such paper convenient;  if not,
not.  Farther as to the matter of the title-page, it seems to me your Printer might give a
bolder and a broader type to the words "Critical and Miscellaneous," and add after "Essays"
with a colon (:), the line "Collected and Republished," with a colon also;  then the "By,"
&c. "In Four Volumes, Vol. I.," &c.  I mean that we want, in general, a little more ink and
decisiveness:  show your man the title-page of the English French Revolution, or look at it
your self, and you will know.  R.W.E.'s "Advertisement," friendly and good, as all his dealings
are to me ward, will of course be suppressed in the English copies.  I see not that with propriety
I can say anything by way of substitute:  silence and the New England imprint will tell the
story as eloquently as there is need.

For the rest you must tell Mr. Loring, and all men who had a hand in it along with you, that
I am altogether right well pleased with this edition, and find it far beyond my expectation.
To my two young Friends, Henry S. McKean (be so good as write these names more indisputably
for me) and Charles Stearns Wheeler, in particular, I will beg you to express emphatically
my gratitude; they have stood by me with right faithfulness, and made the correctest printing;
a great service had I known that there were such eyes and heads acting in behalf of me there,
I would have scraped out the Editorial blotches too (notes of admiration, dashes, "We think"s,
&c., &c., common in Jeffrey's time in the Edinburgh Review) and London misprints;  which are
almost the only deformities that remain now.  It is extremely correct printing wherever I have
looked, and many things are silently amended;  it is the most fundamental service of all. 
I have not the other Articles by me at present;  I think they are of themselves a little more
correct;  at all events there are nothing but misprints to deal with;--the Editors, by this
time, had got bound up to let me alone.  In the Life of Scott, fourth page of it (p. 296 of
our edition), there is a sentence to be deleted.  "It will tell us, say they, little new and
nothing pleasing to know":  out with this, for it is nonsense, and was marked for erasure in
the manuscript, I dare say.  I know with certainty no more at present.

Fraser is to sell the Four Volumes at Two Guineas here.  On studying accurately your program
of the American mercantile method, I stood amazed to contrast it with our English one.  The
Bookseller here admits that he could, by diligent bargaining, get up such a book for something
like the same cost or a little more;  but the "laws of the trade" deduct from the very front
of the selling price--how much think you--forty percent and odd, when your man has only fifteen;
for the mere act of vending! To cover all, they charge that enormous price.  (A man, while
I stood consulting with Fraser, came in and asked for Carlyle's Revolution;  they showed it
him, he asked the price;  and exclaimed, "Guinea and a half!  I can get it from America for
nine shillings!" and indignantly went his way;  not without reason.)  There are "laws of the
trade" which ought to be repealed;  which I will take the liberty of contravening to all lengths
by all opportunities--if I had but the power!  But if this joint-stock American plan prosper,
it will answer rarely. Fraser's first French Revolution, for instance, will be done, he calculates,
about New-Year's-day;  and a second edition wanted;  mine to do with what I like.  If you in
America wanted more also--?  I leave you to think of this.--And now enough, enough!

My Brother went from us last Tuesday;  ought to be in Paris yesterday.  I am yet writing nothing;
feel forsaken, sad, sick, --not unhappy.  In general Death seems beautiful to me;  sweet and
great.  But Life also is beautiful, is great and divine, were it never to be joyful any more.
I read Books, my wife sewing by me, with the light of a sinumbra, in a little apartment made
snug against the winter;  and am happiest when all men leave me alone, or nearly all,--though
many men love me rather, ungrateful that I am.  My present book is Horace Walpole;  I get endless
stuff out of it;  epic, tragic, lyrical, didactic:  all inarticulate indeed.  An old blind
Schoolmaster in Annan used to ask with endless anxiety when a new scholar was offered him,
"But are ye sure he's not a Dunce?"  It is really the one thing needful in a man;  for indeed
(if we will candidly understand it) all else is presupposed in that.  Horace Walpole is no
dunce, not a fibre of him is duncish.

Your Friend Sumner was here yesterday, a good while, for the first time:  an ingenious, cultivated,
courteous man;  a little sensitive or so, and with no other fault that I discerned.  He borrowed
my copy of your Dartmouth business, and bound himself over to return with it soon.  Some approve
of that here, some condemn:  my Wife and another lady call it better even than the former,
I not so good.  And now the Heterodox, the Heterodox, where is that?  Adieu, my dear Friend.
Commend me to the Concord Household;  to the little Boy, to his Grandmother, and Mother, and
Father;  we must all meet some day,--or some no-day then (as it shall please God)!  My Wife
heartily greets you all.

Ever yours,
         T. Carlyle

I sent your book, message, and address to Sterling;  he is in Florence or Rome.  Read the article
Simonides by him in the London and Westminster--brilliant prose, translations--wooden? His
signature is L (Pounds Sterling!).--Now you are to write soon?  I always forgot to tell you,
there came long since two packages evidently in your hand, marked "One printed sheet," and
"one Newspaper," for which the Postman demanded about Fifteen shillings:  rejected.  After
considerable correspondence the Newspaper was again offered me at ten pence;  the sheet unattainable
altogether:  "No," even at tenpence.  The fact is, it was wrong wrapped, that Newspaper.  Leave
it open at the ends, and try me again, once;  I think it will come almost gratis. Steam and
Iron are making all the Planet into one Village.--A Mr. Dwight wrote to me about the dedicating
of some German translations:  Yes.  What are they or he?*--Your Sartor is off through Kennet.
Could you send me two copies of the American Life of Schiller, if the thing is fit for making
a present of, and easy to be got?  If not, do not mind it at all.--Addio!

------------- * Mr. John S. Dwight, whose volume of Select Minor Poems from the German of Goethe
and Schiller, published in 1839, was dedicated to Carlyle.  It was the third volume of Specimens
of Foreign Standard Literature, edited by George Ripley.  Beside Mr. Dwight's own excellent
versions, it contained translations by Mr. Bancroft, Dr. Hedge, Dr. Frothingham, and others.
For many years Mr. Dwight rendered a notable public service as the editor of Dwight's Journal
of Music,--a publication which did more than any other to raise and to maintain high the standard
of musical taste and culture in America. ---------

XXXII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 13 January, 1839

My Dear Friend,--I am not now in any Condition to write a letter, having neither the facts
from the booksellers which you would know touching our future plans, nor yet a satisfactory
account balanced and settled of our past dealings;  and lastly, no time to write what I would
say,--as my poor lectures are in full course, and absorb all my wits;  but as the "Royal William"
will not wait, and as I have a hundred pounds to send on account of the sales of the French
Revolution, I must steal a few minutes to send my salutation.  I have received all your four
good letters:  and you are a good and generous man to write so many. Two came on the 2d and
3d of January, and the last on the 9th. If the bookselling Munroe had answered me yesterday,
as he ought, I should be able to satisfy you as to the time when to expect our cargo of Miscellanies.
The third and fourth volumes are now printing:  't is a fortnight since we began.  You shall
have two hundred and fifty copies,--I am not quite sure you can have more,--bound, and entitled,
and directed as you desire, at least according to the best ability of our printer as far as
the typography is concerned, and we will speed the work as fast as we can;  but as we have
but a single copy of Fraser's Magazine--we do not get on rapidly.  The French Revolution was
all sold more than a month since.  We should be glad of more copies, but the bookseller thinks
not of enough copies to justify a new edition yet.  I should not be surprised, however, to
see that some bold brother of the trade had undertaken it.  Now, what does your question point
at in reference to your new edition, asking "if we want more"?  Could you send us out a part
of your edition at American prices, and at the same time to your advantage?  I wish I knew
the precise answer to this question, then perhaps I could keep all pirates out of our bay.

I shall convey in two days your message to Stearns Wheeler, who is now busy in correcting the
new volumes.  He is now Greek Tutor in Harvard College.*--Kindest thanks to Jane Carlyle for
her generous remembrances, which I will study to deserve.  Has the heterodoxy arrived in Chelsea,
and quite destroyed us even in the charity of our friend?  I am sorry to have worried you so
often about the summer letter.  Now am I your debtor four times.  The parish commotion, too,
has long ago subsided here, and my course of Lectures on "Human Life" finds a full attendance.
I wait for the coming of the Westminster, which has not quite yet arrived here, though I have
seen the London advertisement.  It sounds prosperously in my ear what you say of Dr. Carlyle's
appointments.  I was once very near the man in Rome, but did not see him.  I will atone as
soon as I can for this truncated epistle.  You must answer it immediately, so far as to acknowledge
the receipt of the enclosed bill of exchange, and soon I will send you the long promised account
of the French Revolution, and also such moral account of the same as is over due.

Yours affectionately,
                R.W. Emerson

--------- * This promising young scholar edited with English notes the first American edition
of Herodotus.  He went to Europe to pursue his studies, and died, greatly regretted, at Rome,
of a fever, in 1848. ---------

XXXIII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 8 February, 1859

My Dear Friend,--Your welcome little Letter, with the astonishing inclosure, arrived safe four
days ago;  right welcome, as all your Letters are, and bringing as these usually do the best
news I get here.  The miraculous draught of Paper I have just sent to a sure hand in Liverpool,
there to lie till in due time it have ripened into a crop of a hundred gold sovereigns!  On
this subject, which gives room for so many thoughts, there is little that can be said, that
were not an impertinence more or less. The matter grows serious to me, enjoins me to be silent
and reflect.  I will say, at any rate, there never came money into my hands I was so proud
of;  the promise of a blessing looks from the face of it;  nay, it will be twice blessed. 
So I will ejaculate, with the Arabs, Allah akbar! and walk silent by the shore of the many-sounding
Babel-tumult, meditating on much. Thanks to the mysterious all-bounteous Guide of men, and
to you my true Brother, far over the sea!--For the rest, I showed Fraser this Nehemiah document,
and said I hoped he would blush very deep;--which indeed the poor creature did, till I was
absolutely sorry for him.

But now first as to this question, What I mean?  You must know poor Fraser, a punctual but
most pusillanimous mortal, has been talking louder and louder lately of a "second edition"
here; whereupon, as labor-wages are not higher here than with you, and printing-work, if well
bargained for, ought to be about the same price, it struck me that, as in the case of the Miscellanies,
so here inversely the supply of both the New and the Old England might be profitably combined.
Whether aught can come of this, now that it is got close upon us, I yet know not.  Fraser has
only seventy-five copies left;  but when these will be done his prophecy comprehends not,--"surely
within the year"!  For the present I have set him to ascertain, and will otherwise ascertain
for myself, what the exact cost of stereotyping the Book were, in the same letter and style
as yours;  it is not so much more than printing, they tell me:  I should then have done with
it forever and a day.  You on your side, and we on ours, might have as many copies as were
wanted for all time coming.  This is, in these very days, under inquisition;  but there are
many points to be settled before the issue.

I have not yet succeeded in finding a Bookseller of any fitness, but am waiting for one always.
And even had I found such a one, I mean an energetic seller that would sell on other terms
than forty percent for his trouble, it were still a question whether one ought to venture on
such a speculation:  "quitting the old highways," as I say, "in indignation at the excessive
tolls, with hope that you will arrive cheaper in the steeple-chase way!"  It is clear, however,
that said highways are of the corduroy sort, said tolls an anomaly that must be remedied soon;
and also that in all England there is no Book in a likelier case to adventure it with than
this same,--which did not sell at all for two months, as I hear, which all Booksellers got
terrified for, and which has crept along mainly by its own gravitation ever since. We will
consider well, we shall see.  You can understand that such a thing, for your market too, is
in agitation;  if any pirate step in before us in the meanwhile, we cannot help it.

Thanks again for your swift attention to the Miscellanies; poor Fraser is in great haste to
see them;  hoping for his forty- per-cent division of the spoil. For example, the other night,
a massive portmanteau of Books, sent according to my written list, from the Cambridge University
Library, from certain friends there whom I have never seen;  a gratifying arrival.  For we
have no Library here, from which we can borrow books home;  and are only in these weeks striving
to get one:*  think of that!  Yet perhaps it is the proper place after all, seeing all places
are improper:  who knows?  Meanwhile I lead a most dyspeptic, solitary, self-shrouded life:
consuming, if possible in silence, my considerable daily allotment of pain; glad when any strength
is left in me for working, which is the only use I can see   in myself,--too rare a case of
late.  The ground of my existence is black as Death;  too black, when all void too but at times
there paint themselves on it pictures of gold and rainbow and lightning;  all the brighter
for the black ground, I suppose.  Withal I am very much of a fool.--Some people will have me
write on Cromwell, which I have been talking about.  I do read on that and English subjects,
finding that I know nothing and that nobody knows anything of that:  but whether anything will
come of it remains to be seen.  Mill, the Westminster friend, is gone in bad health to the
Continent, and has left a rude Aberdeen Longear, a great admirer of mine too, with whom I conjecture
I cannot act at all:  so good-bye to that. The wisest of all, I do believe, were that I bought
my nag Yankee and set to galloping about the elevated places here!  A certain Mr. Coolidge,**
a Boston man of clear iron visage and character, came down to me the other day with Sumner;
he left a newspaper fragment, containing "the Socinian Pope's denunciation of Emerson."

--------- * The beginning of the London Library, a most useful institution, from which books
may be borrowed.  It served Carlyle well in later years, and for a long time he was President
of it.

** The late Mr. Joseph Coolidge. ---------

The thing denounced had not then arrived, though often asked for at Kennet's;  it did not arrive
till yesterday, but had lain buried in bales of I know not what.  We have read it only once,
and are not yet at the bottom of it.  Meanwhile, as I judge, the Socinian "tempest in a washbowl"
is all according to nature, and will be profitable to you, not hurtful.  A man is called to
let his light shine before men;  but he ought to understand better and better what medium it
is through, what retinas it falls on:  wherefore look there.  I find in this, as in the two
other Speeches, that noblest self-assertion, and believing originality, which is like sacred
fire, the beginning of whatsoever is to flame and work; and for young men especially one sees
not what could be more vivifying.  Speak, therefore, while you feel called to do it; and when
you feel called.  But for yourself, my friend, I prophesy it will not do always:  a faculty
is in you for a sort of speech which is itself action, an artistic sort.  You tell us with
piercing emphasis that man's soul is great;  show us a great soul of a man, in some work symbolic
of such:  this is the seal of such a message, and you will feel by and by that you are called
to this.  If these Orations balk me of this, how profitable soever they be for others.  I will
not love them.--And yet, what am I saying?  How do I know what is good for you, what authentically
makes your own heart glad to work in it?  I speak from without, the friendliest voice must
speak from without;  and a man's ultimate monition comes only from within. Forgive me, and
love me, and write soon.  A Dieu!

                              --T. Carlyle

My Wife, very proud of your salutation, sends a sick return of greeting.  After a winter of
unusual strength, she took cold the other day, and coughs again;  though she will not call
it serious yet.  One likes none of these things.  She has a brisk heart and a stout, but too
weak a frame for this rough life of mine.  I will not get sad about it.

To write soon!

XXXIV. Emerson to Carlyle*

Concord, 15 March, 1839

My Dear Friend,--I will spare you my apologies for not writing, they are so many.  You have
been very generous, I very promising and dilatory.  I desired to send you an Account of the
sales of the History, thinking that the details might be more intelligible to you than to me,
and might give you some insight into literary and social, as well as bibliopolical relations.
But many details of this account will not yet settle themselves into sure facts, but do dance
and mystify me as one green in ledgers.  Bookseller says nine hundred and ninety-one copies
came from Binder, nine remaining imperfect, and so not bound.  But in all my reckonings of
the particulars of distribution I make either more or less than nine hundred and ninety-one
copies.  And some of my accounts are with private individuals at a distance, and they have
their uncertainties and misrememberings also.  But the facts will soon show themselves, and
I count confidently on a small balance against the world to your credit.

---------- * This letter appeared in the Athenaeum, July 22, 1882. ----------

The Miscellanies go forward too slowly, at about the rate of seventy-two pages a week, as I
understand.  Of the Fraser articles and of some others we have but a single copy, (such are
the tough limits of some English immortalities and editorial renowns,) but we expect the end
of the printing in six weeks. The first two volumes, with title-pages, are gone to the binder--
two hundred and sixty copies--with strait directions;  and I presume will go to sea very soon.
We shall send the last two volumes by a later ship.  You will pay nothing for the books we
send except freight.  We shall deduct the cost of the books from the credit side of your account
here.  We print of the second series twelve hundred and fifty copies, with the intention of
printing a second edition of the first series of five hundred, if we see fit hereafter to supply
the place of the emigrating portion of the first.  You express some surprise at the cheapness
of our work.  The publishers, I believe, generally get more profits.  They grumbled a little
at the face of the account on the 1st of January;  so in the new contract for the new volumes
I have allowed them nine cents more on each copy sold by them.  So that you should receive
ninety-one cents on a copy instead of one dollar.  When the two hundred and fifty copies of
our first two volumes are gone to you, I think they will have but about one hundred copies
more to sell.

Your books are read.  I hear, I think, more gratitude expressed for the Miscellanies than for
the History.  Young men at all our colleges study them in closets, and the Copernican is eradicating
the Ptolemaic lore.  I have frequent and cordial testimonies to the good working of the leaven,
and continual inquiry whether the man will come hither.  Speriamo.

I was a fool to tell you once you must not come if I did tell you so.  I knew better at the
time, and did steadily believe, as far as I was concerned, that no polemical mud, however much
was thrown, could by any possibility stick to me;  for I was purely an observer;  had not the
smallest personal or partial interest;  and merely spoke to the question as a historian;  and
I knew whoever could see me must see that.  But, at the moment, the little pamphlet made much
stir and excitement in the newspapers;  and the whole thousand copies were bought up.  The
ill wind has blown over.  I advertised, as usual, my winter course of Lectures, and it prospered
very well.  Now I am well again.--But, as I said, as I could not hurt myself, it was foolish
to flatter myself that I could mix your cause with mine and hurt you.  Nothing is more certain
than that you shall have all our ears, whenever you wish for them, and free from that partial
position which I deprecated. Yet I cannot regret my letter, which procured me so affectionate
and magnanimous a reply.

Thanks, too, for your friendliest invitation.  But I have a new reason why I should not come
to England,--a blessed babe, named Ellen, almost three weeks old,--a little, fair, soft lump
of contented humanity, incessantly sleeping, and with an air of incurious security that says
she has come to stay, has come to be loved, which has nothing mean, and quite piques me.

Yet how gladly should I be near you for a time.  The months and years make me more desirous
of an unlimited conversation with you;  and one day, I think, the God will grant it, after
whatever way is best.  I am lately taken with The Onyx Ring, which seemed to me full of knowledge,
and good, bold, true drawing. Very saucy, was it not? in John Sterling to paint Collins;  and
what intrepid iconoclasm in this new Alcibiades to break in among your Lares and disfigure
your sacred Hermes himself in Walsingham.*  To me, a profane man, it was good sport to see
the Olympic lover of Frederica, Lili, and so forth, lampooned.  And by Alcibiades too, over
whom the wrath of Pericles must pause and brood ere it falls.  I delight in this Sterling,
but now that I know him better I shall no longer expect him to write to me.  I wish I could
talk to you on the grave questions, graver than all literature, which the trifles of each day
open.  Our doing seems to be a gaudy screen or popinjay to divert the eye from our nondoing.
I wish, too, you could know my friends here.  A man named Bronson Alcott is a majestic soul,
with whom conversation is possible.  He is capable of truth, and gives me the same glad astonishment
that he should exist which the world does.

-------- * Collins and Walsingham, two characters in The Onyx Ring, are partly drawn, not very
felicitously, from Carlyle and Goethe.  It is reprinted in the second volume of Sterling's
Essays and Tales, edited by Julius Hare. ---------

As I hear not yet of your reception of the bill of exchange, which went by the "Royal William"
in January, I enclose the duplicate.  And now all success to the Lectures of April or May!
A new Kingdom with new extravagances of power and splendor I know.  Unless you can keep your
own secret better in Rahel, &c., you must not give it me to keep.  The London Sartor arrived
in my hands March 5th, dated the 15th of November, so long is the way from Kennet to Little
& Co.  The book is welcome, and awakens a sort of nepotism in me,--my brother's child.

                                 --R.W. Emerson

I rejoice in the good accounts you give me of your household;  in your wife's health;  in your
brother's position.  My wife wishes to be affectionately remembered to you and yours.  And
the lady must continue to love her old Transatlantic friend.

XXXV. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 19 March, 1839

My Dear Friend,--Only last Saturday I despatched a letter to you containing a duplicate of
the bill of exchange sent in January, and all the facts I knew of our books;  and now comes
to me a note from Wheeler, at Cambridge, saying that the printers, on reckoning up their amount
of copy, find that nowise can they make 450 pages per volume, as they have promised, for these
two last of the Miscellanies.  They end the third volume with page 390, and they have not but
350 or less pages for the fourth.  They ask, What shall be done?  Nothing is known to me but
to give them Rahel, though I grudge it, for I vastly prefer to end with Scott.   Rahel, I fancy,
cost you no night and no morning, but was writ in that gentle after-dinner hour so friendly
to good digestion.  Stearns Wheeler dreams that it is possible to draw at this eleventh hour
some possible manuscript out of the unedited treasures of Teufelsdrockh's cabinets.  If the
manuscripts were ready, all fairly copied out by foreseeing scribes in your sanctuary at Chelsea,
the good goblin of steam would--with the least waiting, perhaps a few days--bring the packet
to our types in time.  I have little hope, almost none, from a sally so desperate on possible
portfolios;  but neither will I be wanting to my sanguine co-editor, your good friend.  So
I told him I would give you as instant notice as Mr. Rogers at the Merchants' Exchange Bar
can contrive, and tell you plainly that we shall proceed to print Rahel when we come so far
on;  and with that paper end;  unless we shall receive some contrary word from you. And if
we can obtain any manuscript from you before we have actually bound our book, we will cancel
our last sheets and insert it.  And so may the friendly Heaven grant a speedy passage to my
letter and to yours!  I fear the possibility of our success is still further reduced by the
season of the year, as the Lectures must shortly be on foot.  Well, the best speed to them
also.  When I think of you as speaking and not writing them, I remember Luther's words, "He
that can speak well, the same is a man."

I hope you liked John Dwight's translations of Goethe, and his notes.  He is a good, susceptible,
yearning soul, not so apt to create as to receive with the freest allowance, but I like his
books very much.

Do think to say in a letter whether you received from me a copy of our edition of your French
Revolution.  I ordered a copy sent to you,--probably wrote your name in it,--but it does not
appear in the bookseller's account.  Farewell.

                                      --R.W. Emerson

XXXVI. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 13 April, 1839

My Dear Emerson,--Has anything gone wrong with you?  How is it that you do not write to me?
These three or four weeks, I know not whether duly or not so long, I have been in daily hope
of some sign from you;  but none comes;  not even a Newspaper,--open at the ends.  The German
Translator, Mr. Dwight, mentioned, at the end of a Letter I had not long ago, that you had
given a brilliant course of Lectures at Boston, but had been obliged to intermit it on account
of illness.  Bad news indeed, that latter clause;  at the same time, it was thrown in so cursorily
I would not let myself be much alarmed;  and since that, various New England friends have assured
me here that there was nothing of great moment in it, that the business was all well over now,
and you safe at Concord again.  Yet how is it that I do not hear?  I will tell you my guess
is that those Boston Carlylean Miscellanies are to blame.  The Printer is slack and lazy as
Printers are;  and you do not wish to write till you can send some news of him?  I will hope
and believe that only this is it, till I hear worse.

I sent you a Dumfries Newspaper the other week, for a sign of my existence and anxiety.  A
certain Mr. Ellis of Boston is this day packing up a very small memorial of me to your Wife;
a poor Print rolled about a bit of wood:  let her receive it graciously in defect of better.
It comes under your address.  Nay, properly it is my Wife's memorial to your Wife.  It is to
be hung up in the Concord drawing-room.  The two Households, divided by wide seas, are to understand
always that they are united nevertheless.

My special cause for writing this day rather than another is the old story, book business.
You have brought that upon yourself, my friend;  and must do the best you can with it.  After
all, why should not Letters be on business too?  Many a kind thought, uniting man with man,
in gratitude and helpfulness, is founded on business.  The speaker at Dartmouth College seems
to think it ought to be so.  Nor do I dissent.--But the case is this, Fraser and I are just
about bargaining for a second edition of the Revolution.  He will print fifteen hundred for
the English market, in a somewhat closer style, and sell them here at twenty- four shillings
a copy.  His first edition is all gone but some handful;  and the man is in haste, and has
taken into a mood of hope,--for he is weak and aguish, alternating from hot to cold; otherwise,
I find, a very accurate creature, and deals in his unjust trade as justly as any other will.
He has settled with me;  his half-profits amount to some L130, which by charging me for every
presentation copy he cuts down to somewhere about L110; not the lion's share in the gross produce,
yet a great share compared with an expectancy no higher than zero!  We continue on the same
system for this second adventure;  I cannot go hawking about in search of new terms;  I might
go farther and fare worse.  And now comes your part of the affair;  in which I would fain have
had your counsel;  but must ask your help, proceeding with my own light alone.  After Fraser's
fifteen hundred are printed off, the types remain standing, and I for my own behoof throw off
five hundred more, designed for your market. Whether five hundred are too many or too few,
I can only guess; if too many, we can retain them here and turn them to account; if too few,
there is no remedy.  At all events, costing me only the paper and press-work, there is surely
no Pirate in the Union that can undersell us!  Nay, it seems they have a drawback on our taxed
paper, sufficient or nearly so to land the cargo at Boston without more charge.  You see, therefore,
how it is.  Can you find me a Bookseller, as for yourself;  he and you can fix what price the
ware will carry when you see it.  Meanwhile I must have his Title-page;  I must have his directions
(if any be needed);  nay, for that matter, you might write a Preface if you liked,--though
I see not what you have to say, and recommend silence rather!  The book is to be in three volumes
duodecimo, and we will take care it be fit to show its face in your market. A few errors of
the press;  and one correction (about the sinking of the Vengeur, which I find lately to be
an indisputable falsehood);  these are all the changes.  We are to have done printing, Fraser
predicts, "in two months";--say two and a half! I suppose you decipher the matter out of this
plastering and smearing;  and will do what is needful in it.  "Great inquiry" is made for the
Miscellanies, Fraser says;  though he suspects it may perhaps be but one or two men inquiring
often,--the dog!

I am again upon the threshold of extempore lecturing:  on "the Revolutions of Modern Europe";
Protestantism, 2 lectures; Puritanism, 2;  French Revolution, 2.  I almost regret that I had
undertaken the thing this year at all, for I am no longer driven by Poverty as heretofore.
Nay, I am richer than I have been for ten years;  and have a kind of prospect, for the first
time this great while, of being allowed to subsist in this world for the future:  a great blessing,
perhaps the greatest, when it comes as a novelty!  However, I thought it right to keep this
Lecture business open, come what might.  I care less about it than I did; it is not agony and
wretched trembling to the marrow of the bone, as it was the last two times.  I believe, in
spite of all my perpetual indigestions and nervous woes, I am actually getting into better
health;  the weary heart of me is quieter;  I wait in silence for the new chapter,--feeling
truly that we are at the end of one period here.  I count it two in my autobiography: we shall
see what the third is;  [if] third there be.  But I am in small haste for a third.  How true
is that of the old Prophets, "The word of the Lord came unto" such and such a one! When it
does not come, both Prophet and Prosaist ought to be thankful (after a sort), and rigorously
hold their tongue.--Lord Durham's people have come over with golden reports of the Americans,
and their brotherly feelings.  One Arthur Buller preaches to me, with emphasis, on a quite
personal topic till one explodes in laughter to hear him, the good soul:  That I, namely, am
the most esteemed, &c., and ought to go over and Lecture in all great towns of the Union, and
make, &c., &c.!  I really do begin to think of it in this interregnum that I am in.  But then
my Lectures must be written;  but then I must become a hawker, --ach Gott!

The people are beginning to quote you here:  tant pis pour eux! I have found you in two Cambridge
books.  A certain Mr. Richard M. Milnes, M.P., a beautiful little Tory dilettante poet and
politician whom I love much, applied to me for Nature (the others he has) that he might write
upon it.    Somebody has stolen Nature from me, or many have thumbed it to pieces;  I could
not find a copy.  Send me one, the first chance you have. And see Miss Martineau in the last
Westminster Review:--these things you are old enough to stand?  They are even of benefit? Emerson
is not without a select public, the root of a select public on this side of the water too.--Popular
Sumner is off to Italy, the most popular of men,--inoffensive, like a worn sixpence that has
no physiognomy left.  We preferred Coolidge to him in this circle;  a square-cut iron man,
yet with clear symptoms of a heart in him.  Your people will come more and more to their maternal
Babylon, will they not, by the steamers?-- Adieu, my dear friend.  My Wife joins me in all
good prayers for you and yours.

                  --Thomas Carlyle

XXXVII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 17 April, 1839

Dear Friend,--Some four days ago I wrote you a long Letter, rather expressive of anxiety about
you;  it will probably come to hand along with this.  I had heard vaguely that you were unwell,
and wondered why you did not write.  Happily, that point is as good as settled now, even by
your silence about it.  I have, half an hour ago, received your Concord Letter of the 19th
of March. The Letter you speak of there as "written last Saturday" has not yet made its appearance,
but may be looked for now shortly:  as there is no mention here of any mischance, except the
shortcoming of Printers' copy, I infer that all else is in a tolerably correct state;  I wait
patiently for the "last Saturday" tidings, and will answer as to the matters of copy, in good
heart, without loss of a moment.

There is nothing of the manuscript sort in Teufelsdrockh's repositories that would suit you
well;  nothing at all in a completed state, except a long rigmarole dissertation (in a crabbed
sardonic vein) about the early history of the Teutonic Kindred, wriggling itself along not
in the best style through Proverb lore, and I know not what, till it end (if my memory serve)
in a kind of Essay on the Minnesingers.  It was written almost ten years ago, and never contented
me well.  It formed part of a lucklessly projected History of German Literature, subsequent
portions of which, the Nibelungen and Reinecke Fox, you have already printed.  The unfortunate
"Cabinet Library Editor," or whatever his title was, broke down;  and I let him off,--without
paying me;  and this alone remains of the misventure;  a thing not fit for you, nor indeed
at bottom for anybody, though I have never burnt it yet.  My other Manuscripts are scratchings
and scrawlings;--children's infant souls weeping because they never could be born, but were
left there whimpering in limine primo!

On this side, therefore, is no help.  Nevertheless, it seems to me, otherwise there is.  Varnhagen
may be printed I think without offence, since there is need of it:  if that will make up your
fourth volume to a due size, why not?  It is the last faint murmur one gives in Periodical
Literature, and may indicate the approach of silence and slumber.  I know no errors of the
Press in Varnhagen:  there is one thing about Jean Paul F. Richter's want of humor in his speech,
which somehow I could like to have the opportunity of uttering a word on, though what word
I see not very well.  My notion is partly that V. overstates the thing, taking a Berlin propos
de salon for a scientifically accurate record;  and partly farther that the defect (if any)
was creditable to Jean Paul, indicating that he talked from the abundance of the heart, not
burning himself off in miserable perpetual sputter like a Town-wit, but speaking what he had
to say, were it dull, were it not dull,--for his own satisfaction first of all!  If you in
a line or two could express at the right point something of that sort, it were well;  yet on
the whole, if not, then is almost no matter.  Let the whole stand then as the commencement
of slumber and stertorous breathing!

Varnhagen himself will not bring up your fourth volume to the right size;  hardly beyond 380
pages, I should think;  yet what more can be done?  Do you remember Fraser's Magazine for October,
1832, and a Translation there, with Notes, of a thing called Goethe's Mahrchen?  It is by me;
I regard it as a most remarkable piece, well worthy of perusal, especially by all readers of
mine.  The printing of your third volume will of course be finished before this letter arrive;
nevertheless I have a plan:  that you (as might be done, I suppose, by cancelling and reprinting
the concluding leaf or leaves) append the said Translated Tale, in a smaller type, to that
volume.  It is 21 or 22 pages of Fraser, and will perhaps bring yours up to the mark.  Nay,
indeed there are two other little Translations from Goethe which I reckon good, though of far
less interest than the Mahrchen;  I think they are in the Frasers almost immediately preceding;
one of them is called Fragment from Goethe (if I remember);  in his Works, it is Novelle; 
it treats of a visit by some princely household to a strange Mountain ruin or castle, and the
catastrophe is the escape of a show-lion from its booth in the neighboring Market-Town.  I
have not the thing here,--alas, sinner that I am, it now strikes me that the "two other things"
are this one thing, which my treacherous memory is making into two!  This however you will
find in the Number immediately, or not far from immediately, preceding that of the Mahrchen;
along with which, in the same type with which, it would give us letter-press enough.  It ought
to stand before the Mahrchen:  read it, and say whether it is worthy or not worthy.  Will this
Appendix do, then?  I should really rather like the Mahrchen to be printed, and had thoughts
of putting [it] at the end of the English Sartor.  The other I care not for, intrinsically,
but think it very beautiful in its kind.--Some rubbish of my own, in small quantity, exists
here and there in Fraser;  one story, entitled Cruthers and Jonson,* was written sixteen years
ago, and printed somewhere early (probably the second year) in that rubbish heap, with several
gross errors of the press (mares for maces was one!):  it is the first thing I wrote, or among
the very first;--otherwise a thing to be kept rather secret, except from the like of you! 
This or any other of the "original" immaturities I will not recommend as an Appendix;  I hope
the Mahrchen, or the Novelle and Mahrchen, will suffice.  But on the whole, to thee, O Friend,
and thy judgment and decision, without appeal, I leave it altogether.  Say Yes, say No;  do
what seemeth good to thee.--Nay now, writing with the speed of light, another consideration
strikes me:  Why should Volume Third be interfered with if it is finished?  Why will not this
Appendix do, these Appendixes, to hang to the skirts of Volume Four as well?  Perhaps better!
the Mahrchen in any case closing the rear.  I leave it all to Emerson and Stearns Wheeler,
my more than kind Editors:  E. knows it better than I;  be his decision irrevocable.

----------- * "Cruthers and Jonson; or, The Outskirts of Life.  A True Story."  Fraser's Magazine,
January, 1831. ------------

This letter is far too long, but I had not time to make it shorter.--I got your French Revolution,
and have seen no other: my name is on it in your hand.  I received Dwight's Book, liked it,
and have answered him:  a good youth, of the kind you describe;  no Englishman, to my knowledge,
has yet uttered as much sense about Goethe and German things.  I go this day to settle with
Fraser about printers and a second edition of the Revolution Book,--as specified in the other
Letter:  five hundred copies for America, which are to cost he computes about 2/7, and your
Bookseller will bind them, and defy Piracy.

Ever your affectionate
                   T. Carlyle

All love from both of us to the Mother and Boy.  My Wife is better than usual;  rejoices in
the promise of summer now at last visible after a spring like Greenland.  Scarcity, discontent,
fast ripening towards desperation, extends far and wide among our working people.  God help
them!  In man as yet is small help.  There will be work yet, before that account is liquidated;
a generation or two of work!  Miss Martineau is gone to Switzerland, after emitting Deerwood
[sic], a Novel.* How do you like it?  people ask.  To which there are serious answers returnable,
but few so good as none.  Ah me!  Lady Bulwer too has written a Novel, in satire of her Husband.
I saw the Husband not long since;  one of the wretchedest Phantasms, it seemed to me, I had
yet fallen in with,--many, many, as they are here.

The L100 Sterling Bill came, in due time, in perfect order;  and will be payable one of these
days.  I forget dates; but had well calculated that before the 19th of March this piece of
news and my gratitude for it had reached you.

-------- * Deerbrook --------

XXXVIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Boston, 20 April, 1839

My Dear Friend,--Learning here in town that letters may go today to the "Great Western," I
seize the hour to communicate a bookseller's message.  I told Brown, of C.C. Little & Co.,
that you think of stereotyping the History.  He says that he can make it profitable to himself
and to you to use your plates here in this manner (which he desires may be kept secret here,
and I suppose with you also).  You are to get your plates made and proved, then you are to
send them out here to him, having first insured them in London, and he is to pay you a price
for every copy he prints from them.  As soon as he has printed a supply for our market,--and
we want, he says, five hundred copies now,--he will send them back to you.  I told him I thought
he had better fix the price per copy to be paid by him, and I would send it to you as his offer.
He is willing to do so, but not today.  It was only this morning I informed him of your plan.
I think in a fortnight I shall need to write again,--probably to introduce to you my countrywoman,
Miss Sedgwick, the writer of affectionate New England tales and the like, who is about to go
to Europe for a year or more.  I will then get somewhat definite from Brown as to rates and
prices.  Brown thought you might better send the plates here first, as we are in immediate
want of copies;  and afterwards print with them in London.  He is quite sure that it would
be more profitable to print them in this manner than to try to import and sell here the books
after being manufactured in London.

On the 30th of April we shall ship at New York the first two volumes of the Miscellanies, two
hundred and sixty copies.  In four weeks, the second two volumes will be finished, unless we
wait for something to be added by yourself, agreeably to a suggestion of Wheeler's and mine.
Two copies of Schiller's Life will go in the same box.  We send them to the port of London.
When these are gone, only one hundred copies remain unsold of the first two volumes (Miscellanies).

Brown said it was important that the plates should be proved correct at London by striking
off impressions before they were sent hither.  This is the whole of my present message.  I
shall have somewhat presently to reply to your last letter, received three weeks since.  And
may health and peace dwell with you and yours!

                   --R.W. Emerson

XXXIX. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 25 April, 1839

My Dear Friend,--Behold my account!  A very simple thing, is it not!  A very mouse, after such
months, almost years, of promise! Despise it not, however;  for such is my extreme dulness
at figures and statements that this nothing has been a fear to me, a long time, how to extract
it from the bookseller's promiscuous account with me, and from obscure records of my own. 
You see that it promises yet to pay you between $60 and $70 more, if Mr. Fuller (a gentleman
of Providence, who procured many subscribers for us there) and Mr. Owen (who owes us also for
copies subscribed for) will pay us our demand.  They have both been lately reminded of their
delinquency.  Herrick and Noyes, you will see credited for eight copies, $18.  They are booksellers
who supplied eight subscribers, and charged us $2 for their trouble and some alleged damage
to a copy.  One copy you will see is sold to Ann Pomeroy for $3.  This lady bought the copy
of me, and preferred sending me $3 to sending $2.50 for so good a book.  You will notice one
or two other variations in the prices, in each of which I aimed to use a friend's discretion.
Add lastly, that you must revise all my figures, as I am a hopeless blunderer, and quite lately
made a brilliant mistake in regard to the amount of 9 multiplied by 12.

Have I asked you whether you received from me a copy of the History?  I designated a copy to
go, and the bookseller's boy thinks he sent one, but there is none charged in their account.
The account of the Miscellanies does not prosper quite so well....

Thanks for your too friendly and generous expectations from my wit.  But in God we are all
great, all rich, each entitled to say, All is mine.  I hope the advancing season has restored
health to your wife, and, if benedictions will help her, tell her we send them on every west
wind.  My wife and babes are well.

                                   --R.W.E.

XL. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 28 April, 1839

My Dear Friend,--I received last night C.C. Little & Co.'s proposition in reference to the
stereotyping the History. Their offer is based on my statement that you proposed to print the
book in two volumes similar to ours.  They say, "We should be willing to pay three hundred
dollars for the use of plates for striking off five hundred copies of the two volumes, with
the farther agreement that, if we wished to strike off another five hundred in nine months
after the publication of the first five hundred, we should have the liberty to do so, paying
the same again;  that is, another three hundred dollars for the privilege of printing another
five hundred copies;--the plates to be furnished us ready for use and free of expense."  They
add, "Should Mr. Carlyle send the plates to this country, he should be particular to ship them
to this port direct."  I am no judge of the liberality of this offer, as I know nothing of
the expense of the plates.  The men, Little and Brown, are fair in their dealings, and the
most respectable book-selling firm in Boston. When you have considered the matter, I hope you
will send me as early an answer as you can.  For as we have no protection from pirates we must
use speed.

I ought to have added to my account and statement sent by Miss Sedgwick one explanation.  You
will find in the account a credit of $13.75, agreed on with Little & Co., as compensation for
lost subscribers.  We had a little book, kept in the bookshop, into which were transferred
the names of subscribers from all lists which were returned from various places.  These names
amounted to two hundred, more or less.  When we came to settle the account, this book could
not be found.  They expressed much regret, and made much vain searching.  Their account with
me recorded only one hundred and thirty-four copies delivered to subscribers. Thus, a large
number, say sixty-six, had been sold by them to our subscribers, and our half-dollar on each
copy put in their pocket as commission, expressly contrary to treaty!  With some ado, I mustered
fifty-five names of subscribers known to me as such, not recorded on their books as having
received copies, and demanded $27.50.  They replied that they also had claims;  that they had
sent the books to distant subscribers in various States, and had charged no freight (with one
or two exceptions, when the books went alone);  that other booksellers had, no doubt, in many
cases, sold the copies to subscribers for which I claimed the half-dollar;  and lastly, which
is indeed the moving reason, that they had sent twenty copies up the Mississippi to a bookseller
(in Vicksburg, I think), who had made them no return.  On these grounds they proposed that
they should pay half my demand, and so compromise.  They said, however, that, if I insisted,
they would pay the whole.  I was so glad to close the affair with mutual goodwill that I said
with the unjust steward, write $13.75.  So are we all pleased at your expense. [Greek]  I think
I will not give you any more historiettes,--they take too much room;  but as I write this time
only on business, you are welcome to this from your friend,

                                   --R.W. Emerson

XLI. Emerson to Carlyle*

Concord, 15 May, 1839.

My Dear Friend,--Last Saturday, 11th instant, I had your two letters of 13th and 17th April.
Before now, you must have one or two notes of mine touching the stereotype plates:  a proposition
superseded by your new plan.  I have also despatched one or two sheets lately containing accounts.
Now for the new matter.  I was in Boston yesterday, and saw Brown, the bookseller.  He accedes
gladly, to the project of five hundred American copies of the History.  He says, that the duty
is the same on books in sheets and books in boards;  and desires, therefore, that the books
may come out bound.  You bind yours in cloth?  Put up his in the same style as those for your
market, only a little more strongly than is the custom with London books, as it will only cost
a little more.  He would be glad also to have his name added in the titlepage (London:  Published
by J. Fraser; and Boston: by C.C. Little and James Brown, 112 Washington St.), or is not this
the right way?  He only said he should like to have his name added.  He threatens to charge
me 20 percent commission.  If, as he computes from your hint of 2/7, the work costs you, say,
70 cents per copy, unbound;  he reckons it at a dollar, when bound; then 75 cents duty in Boston,
$1.75.  He thinks we cannot set a higher price on it than $3.50, because we sold our former
edition for $2.50.   On that price, his commissions would be 70 cents;  and $1.05 per copy
will to you.  If when we see the book, we venture to put a higher price on it, your remainder
shall be more.  I confess, when I set this forth on paper, it looks as bad as your English
trade,--this barefaced 20 percent;  but their plea is, We guarantee the sales;  we advertise;
we pay you when it is sold, though we give our customers six months' credit.  I have made no
final bargain with the man, and perhaps before the books arrive I shall be better advised,
and may get better terms from him.  Meantime, give me the best advice you can;  and despatch
the books with all speed, and if you send six hundred, I think, we will sell them.

------------ * In the first edition of this Correspondence a portion of this letter was printed
from a rough draft, such as Emerson was accustomed to make of his letters to Carlyle.  I owe
the original to the kindness of   the editor of the Athenaeum, in the pages of which it was
printed. -----------

I went to the Athenaeum, and procured the Frasers' and will print the Novelle and the Mahrchen
at the end of the Fourth Volume, which has been loitering under one workman for a week or two
past, awaiting this arrival.  Now we will finish at once. Cruthers and Jonson I read gladly.
It is indispensable to such as would see the fountains of Nile:  but I incline to what seems
your opinion, that it will be better in the final edition of your Works than in this present
First Collection of them.  I believe I could find more matter now of yours if we should be
pinched again.  The Cat-Raphael? and Mirabeau and Macaulay?  Stearns Wheeler is very faithful
in his loving labor,--has taken a world of pains with the sweetest smile.  We are very fortunate
in having him to friend.--For the Miscellanies once more, the two boxes containing two hundred
and sixty copies of the first series went to sea in the "St. James," Captain Sebor, addressed
to Mr. Fraser.  (I hope rightly addressed;  yet I saw a memorandum at Munroe's in which he
was named John Fraser.)

Arthur Buller has my hearty thanks for his good and true witnessing.  And now that our old
advice is indorsed by John Bull himself, you will believe and come.  Nothing can be better.
As soon as the lectures are over, let the trunks be packed.  Only my wife and my blessed sister
dear--Elizabeth Hoar, betrothed in better times to my brother Charles,--my wife and this lovely
nun do say that Mrs. Carlyle must come hither also;  that it will make her strong, and lengthen
her days on the earth, and cheer theirs also.  Come, and make a home with me;  and let us make
a truth that is better than dreams.  From this farm-house of mine you shall sally forth as
God shall invite you, and "lecture in the great cities."  You shall do it by proclamation of
your own, or by the mediation of a committee, which will readily be found. Wife, mother, and
sister shall nurse thy wife meantime, and you shall bring your republican laurels home so fast
that she shall not sigh for the Old England.  Eyes here do sparkle at the very thought.  And
my little placid Musketaquid River looked gayer today in the sun.  In very sooth and love,
my friend, I shall look for you in August.  If aught that we know not must forbid your wife
at present, you will still come.  In October, you shall lecture in Boston;  in November, in
New York;  in December, in Philadelphia;  in January, in Washington.  I can show you three
or four great natures, as yet unsung by Harriet Martineau or Anna Jameson, that content the
heart and provoke the mind.  And for yourself, you shall be as cynical and headstrong and fantastical
as you can be.

I rejoice in what you say of better health and better prospects. I was glad to hear of Milnes,
whose Poems already lay on my table when your letter came.  Since the little Nature book is
not quite dead, I have sent you a few copies, and wish you would offer one to Mr. Milnes with
my respects.  I hope before a great while I may have somewhat better to send him.  I am ashamed
that my little books should be "quoted" as you say.

My affectionate salutations to Mrs. Carlyle, who is to sanction and enforce all I have written
on the migration.  In the prospect of your coming I feel it to be foolish to write.  I have
very much to say to you.  But now only Good Bye.

                                  --R.W. Emerson

XLII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 29 May, 1839

My Dear Emerson,--Your Letter, dated Boston, 20th April, has been here for some two weeks.
Miss Sedgwick, whom it taught us to expect in "about a fortnight," has yet given no note of
herself, but shall be right welcome whenever she appears.  Miss Martineau's absence (she is
in Switzerland this summer) will probably be a loss to the fair Pilgrim;--which of course the
rest of us ought to exert ourselves to make good.... My Lectures are happily over ten days
ago;  with "success" enough, as it is called;  the only valuable part of which is some L200,
gained with great pain, but also with great brevity:--economical respite for another solar
year!  The people were boundlessly tolerant; my agitation beforehand was less this year, my
remorse afterwards proportionally greater.  There was but one moderately good Lecture, the
last,--on Sausculottism, to an audience mostly Tory, and rustling with the beautifulest quality
silks!  Two things I find:  first that I ought to have had a horse;  I had only three incidental
rides or gallops, hired rides;  my horse Yankee is never yet purchased, but it shall be, for
I cannot live, except in great pain, without a horse.  It was sweet beyond measure to escape
out of the dustwhirlpool here, and fly, in solitude, through the ocean of verdure and splendor,
as far as Harrow and back again;  and one's nerves were clear next day, and words lying in
one like water in a well.  But the second thing I found was, that extempore speaking, especially
in the way of Lecture, is an art or craft, and requires an apprenticeship, which I have never
served.  Repeatedly it has come into my head that I should go to America, this very Fall, and
belecture you from North to South till I learn it!  Such a thing does lie in the bottom-scenes,
should hard come to hard;  and looks pleasant enough.--On the whole, I say sometimes, I must
either begin a Book, or do it.  Books are the lasting thing;  Lectures are like corn ground
into flour;  there are loaves for today, but no wheat harvests for next year.  Rudiments of
a new Book (thank Heaven!) do sometimes disclose themselves in me.  Festina lente.  It ought
to be better than the French Revolution;  I mean better written.  The greater part of that
Book, as I read proof-sheets of it in these weeks, does nothing but disgust me.  And yet it
was, as nearly as was good, the utmost that lay in me.  I should not like to be nearer killed
with any other Book!--Books too are a triviality.  Life alone is great;  with its infinite
spaces, its everlasting times, with its Death, with its Heaven and its Hell.  Ah me!

Wordsworth is here at present;  a garrulous, rather watery, not wearisome old man.  There is
a freshness as of brooks and mountain breezes in him;  one says of him:  Thou art not great,
but thou art genuine;  well speed thou.  Sterling is home from Italy, recovered in health,
indeed very well could he but sit still.  He is for Clifton, near Bristol, for the next three
months.  I hear him speak of some sonnet or other he means to address to you:  as for me he
knows well that I call his verses timber toned, without true melody either in thought, phrase
or sound.  The good John!  Did you ever see such a vacant turnip-lantern as that Walsingham
Goethe?  Iconoclast Collins strikes his wooden shoe through him, and passes on, saying almost
nothing.--My space is done!  I greet the little maidkin, and bid her welcome to this unutterable
world.  Commend her, poor little thing, to her little Brother, to her Mother and Father;--
Nature, I suppose, has sent her strong letters of recommendation, without our help, to them
all.  Where I shall be in six weeks is not very certain;  likeliest in Scotland, whither our
whole household, servant and all, is pressingly invited, where they have provided horses and
gigs.  Letters sent hither will still find me, or lie waiting for me, safe:  but perhaps the
speediest address will be "Care of Fraser, 215 Regent Street." My Brother wants me to the Tyrol
and Vienna;  but I think I shall not go.  Adieu, dear friend.    It is a great treasure to
me that I have you in this world.  My Wife salutes you all.--

Yours ever and ever,
               T. Carlyle

XLIII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 24 June, 1833

Dear Friend,--Two Letters from you were brought hither by Miss Sedgwick last week.  The series
of post Letters is a little embroiled in my head;  but I have a conviction that all hitherto
due have arrived;  that up to the date of my last despatch (a Proof-sheet and a Letter), which
ought to be getting into your hands in these very days, our correspondence is clear.  That
Letter and Proof-sheet, two separate pieces, were sent to Liverpool some three weeks ago, to
be despatched by the first conveyance thence;  as I say, they are probably in Boston about
this time.  The Proof-sheet was one of the forty-seven such which the new French Revolution
is to consist of:  with this, as with a correct sample, you were to act upon some Boston Bookseller,
and make a bargain for me,--or at least report that none was to be made.  A bad bargain will
content me now, my hopes are not at all high.

For the present, I am to announce on the part of Bookseller Fraser that the First Portion of
our celebrated Miscellanies have been hovering about on these coasts for several weeks, have
lain safe "in the River" for some two weeks, and ought at last to be safe in Fraser's shop
today or else to morrow.  I will ask there, and verify, before this Letter go.  The reason
of these "two weeks in the river" is that the packages were addressed "John Fraser, London,"
and the people had tried all the Frasers in London before they attempted the right individual,
James, of 215 Regent Street.  Of course, the like mistake in the second case will be avoided.
A Letter, put ashore at Falmouth, and properly addressed, but without any signature, had first
of all announced that the thing was at the door, and so with this "John Fraser," it has been
knocking ever since, finding difficult admission.  In the present instance, such delay has
done no ill, for Fraser will not sell till the Second Portion come;  and with this the mistake
will be avoided.  What has shocked poor James much more is a circumstance which your Boston
Booksellers have no power to avoid:  the "enormousness" of the charges in our Port here!  He
sends me the account of them last Saturday, with eyes-- such as drew Priam's curtains:  L31
and odd silver, whereof L28 as duty on Books at L5 per cwt. is charged by the rapacious Custom-house
alone!  What help, O James?  I answer:  we cannot bombard the British Custom-house, and sack
it, and explode it; we must yield, and pay it the money;  thankful for what is still left.--On
the whole, one has to learn by trying.  This notable finance-expedient, of printing in the
one country what is to be sold in the other, did not take Vandalic custom-houses into view,
which nevertheless do seem to exist.  We must persist in it for the present reciprocal pair
of times, having started in it for these:  but on future occasions always, we can ask the past;
and see whether it be not better to let each side of the water stand on its own basis.

As for your "accounts," my Friend, I find them clear as day, verifiable to the uttermost farthing.
You are a good man to conquer your horror of arithmetic;  and, like hydrophobic Peter of Russia
making himself a sailor, become an Accountant for my sake.  But now will you forgive me if
I never do verify this same account, or look at it more in this world except as a memento of
affection, its arithmetical ciphers so many hierograms, really sacred to me!  I feel as if
I could not examine it without a kind of crime.   For the rest, you may rejoice to think that,
thanks to you and the Books, and to Heaven over all, I am for the present no longer poor; 
but have a reasonable prospect of existing, which, as I calculate, is literally the most that
money can do for a man.  Not for these twelve years, never since I had a house to maintain
with money, have I had as much money in my possession as even now.  Allah kerim!  We will hope
all that is good on that side.  And herewith enough of it.

You tell me you are but "a reporter":  I like you for thinking so.  And you will never know
that it is not true, till you have tried.  Meanwhile, far be it from me to urge you to a trial
before your time come.  Ah, it will come, and soon enough;  much better, perhaps, if it never
came!--A man has "such a baptism to be baptized withal," no easy baptism;  and is "straitened
till it be accomplished."  As for me I honor peace before all things; the silence of a great
soul is to me greater than anything it will ever say, it ever can say.  Be tranquil, my friend;
utter no word till you cannot help it;--and think yourself a "reporter," till you find (not
with any great joy) that you are not altogether that!

We have not yet seen Miss Sedgwick:  your Letters with her card were sent hither by post we
went up next day, but she was out; no meeting could be arranged earlier than tomorrow evening,
when we look for her here.  Her reception, I have no doubt, will be abundantly flattering in
this England.  American Notabilities are daily becoming notabler among us;  the ties of the
two Parishes, Mother and Daughter, getting closer and closer knit. Indissoluble ties:--I reckon
that this huge smoky Wen may, for some centuries yet, be the best Mycale for our Saxon Panionium,
a yearly meeting-place of "All the Saxons," from beyond the Atlantic, from the Antipodes, or
wherever the restless wanderers dwell and toil.  He did not speak much with me that morning,
but seemed not at all to dislike me:  I meditate whether it is fit or not fit that I should
seek out his residence, and leave my card too, before I go?  Probably not;  for the man is
political, seemingly altogether;  has been at the Queen's levee, &c., &c.: it is simply as
a mastiff-mouthed man that he is interesting to me, and not otherwise at all.

In about seven days hence we go to Scotland till the July heats be over.  That is our resolution
after all.  Our address there, probably till the end of August, is "Templand, Thornhill, Dumfries,
N. B.,"--the residence of my Mother-in-law, within a day's drive of my Mother's.  Any Letter
of yours sent by the old constant address (Cheyne Row, Chelsea) will still find me there; but
the other, for that time, will be a day or two shorter.  We all go, servant and all.  I am
bent on writing something;  but have no faith that I shall be able.  I must try.  There is
a thing of mine in Fraser for July, of no account, about the "sinking of the Vengeur" as you
will see.  The French Revolution printing is not to stop;  two thirds of it are done; at this
present rate, it ought to finish, and the whole be ready, within three weeks hence.  A Letter
will be here from you about that time, I think:  I will print no title-page for the Five Hundred
till it do come.  "Published by Fraser and Little" would, I suppose, be unobjectionable, though
Fraser is the most nervous of creatures:  but why put him in at all, since these Five hundred
copies are wholly Little's and yours?  Adieu, my Friend.  Our blessings are with you and your
house.  My wife grows better with the hot weather;  I, always worse.

Yours ever,
      T. Carlyle

I say not a word about America or Lecturing at present;  because I mean to consider it intently
in Scotland, and there to decide. My Brother is to be at Ischl (not far from Salzburg) during
Summer:  he was anxious to have me there, and I to have gone; but--but--Adieu.

Fraser's Shop.  Books not yet come, but known to be safe, and expected soon.  Nay, the dexterous
Fraser has argued away L15 of the duty, he says!  All is right therefore.  N.B. he says you
are to send the second Portion in sheets, the weight will be less. This if it be still time.--Basta.

                                --T.C.

XLIV. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 4 July, 1839

I hear tonight, O excellent man! that, unless I send a letter to Boston tomorrow with the peep
of day, it will miss the Liverpool steamer, which sails earlier than I dreamed of.  O foolish
Steamer!  I am not ready to write.  The facts are not yet ripe, though on the turn of the blush.
Couldst not wait a little? Hurry is for slaves;--and Aristotle, if I rightly remember only
that little from my college lesson, affirmed that the high-minded man never walked fast.  O
foolish Steamer! wait but a week, and we will style thee Megalopsyche, and hang thee by the
Argo in the stars.  Meantime I will not deny the dear and admirable man the fragments of intelligence
I have.  Be it known unto you then, Thomas Carlyle, that I received yesterday morning your
letter by the "Liverpool" with great contentment of heart and mind, in all respects, saving
that the American Hegira, so often predicted on your side and prayed on ours, is treated with
a most unbecoming levity and oblivion;  and, moreover, that you do not seem to have received
all the letters I seem to have sent.  With the letter came the proof-sheet safe, and shall
be presently exhibited to Little and Brown.  You must have already the result of our first
colloquy on that matter.  I can now bring the thing nearer to certainty.  But you must print
their names as before advised on the title-page.

Nearly four weeks ago Ellis sent me the noble Italian print for my wife.*  She is in Boston
at this time, and I believe will be glad that I have written without her aid or word this time,
for she was so deeply pleased with the gift that she said she never could write to you.  It
came timely to me at least.  It is a right morning thought, full of health and flowing genius,
and I rejoice in it.  It is fitly framed and tomorrow is to be hung in the parlor.

-------- * Morghen's engraving of Guido's Aurora. --------

Our Munroe's press, you must believe, was of Aristotle's category of the high-minded and slow.
Chiding would do no good.  They still said, "We have but one copy, and so but one hand at work"!
At last, on the 1st of July, the book appeared in the market, but does not come from the binder
fast enough to supply the instant demand;  and therefore your two hundred and sixty copies
cannot part from New York until the 20th of July.  They will be on board the London packet
which sails on that day.  The publisher has his instructions to bind the volumes to match the
old ones.  Our year since the publication of the Vols. I. and II. is just complete, and I have
set the man on the account, but doubt if I get it before twelve or fourteen days.  All the
edition is gone except forty copies, he told me;  and asked me if I would not begin to print
a small edition of this First Series, five hundred, as we have five hundred of the new Series
too many, with that view. But I am now so old a fox that I suspend majestically my answer until
I have his account.  For on the 21st of July I am to pay $462 for the paper of this new book:
and by and by the printer's bill,--whose amount I do not yet know;  and it is better to be
"slow and high-minded" a little more, since we have been so much, and not go deeper into these
men's debt until we have tasted somewhat of their credit.  We are to get, as you know, by contract,
near a thousand dollars from these first two volumes; yet a month ago I was forced to borrow
two hundred dollars for you on interest, such advances had the account required.  But the coming
account will enlighten us all.

I am very happy in the "success" of the London lectures.  I have no word to add tonight, only
that Sterling is not timber-toned, that I love his poetry, that I admire his prose with reservations
here and there.  What he knows he writes manly and well.  Now and then he puts in a pasteboard
man;  but all our readers here take Blackwood for his sake, and lately seek him in vain.  I
am getting on with some studies of mine prosperously for me, have got three essays nearly done,
and who knows but in the autumn I shall have a book?  Meantime my little boy and maid, my mother
and wife, are well, and the two ladies send to you and yours affectionate regards,--they would
fain say urgent invitations. My mother sends tonight, my wife always.

I shall send you presently a copy of a translation published here of Eckermann, by Margaret
Fuller, a friend of mine and of yours, for the sake of its preface mainly.  She is a most accomplished
lady, and her culture belongs rather to Europe than to America. Good bye.

                                    --R.W. Emerson

XLV. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 8 August, 1839

Dear Friend,--This day came the letter dated 24 June, with "steam packet" written by you on
the outside, but no paddles wheeled it through the sea.  It is forty-five days old, and too
old to do its errand even had it come twenty days sooner--so far as printer and bookbinder
are concerned.  I am truly grieved for the mischance of the John Fraser, and will duly lecture
the sinning bookseller.  I noticed the misnomer in a letter of his New York correspondent,
and, I believe, mentioned to you in a letter my fear of such a mischance.  I am more sorry
for the costliness of this adventure to you, though in a gracious note to me you cut down the
fine one half.  The new books, tardily printed, were tardily bound and tardily put to sea on
the packet ship "Ontario," which left New York for London on the 1st of August. At least this
was the promise of Munroe & Co.  I stood over the boxes in which they were packing them in
the latter days of July. I hope they have not gone to John again, but you must keep an eye
to both names....

I cannot tell you how glad I am that you have seen my brave Senator, and seen him as I see
him.  All my days I have wished that he should go to England, and never more than when I listened
two or three times to debates in the House of Commons.  He has his own sins no doubt, is no
saint, is a prodigal.  He has drunk this rum of Party too so long, that his strong head is
soaked, sometimes even like the soft sponges, but the "man's a man for a' that."  Better, he
is a great boy,--as wilful, as nonchalant and good-humored.  But you must hear him speak, not
a show speech which he never does well, but with cause he can strike a stroke like a smith.
I owe to him a hundred fine hours and two or three moments of Eloquence.  His voice in a great
house is admirable. I am sorry if you decided not to visit him.  He loves a man, too.  I do
not know him, but my brother Edward read law with him, and loved him, and afterwards in sick
and unfortunate days received the steadiest kindness from him.

Well, I am glad you are to think in earnest in Scotland of our Cisatlantic claims.  We shall
have more rights over the wise and brave, I believe before many years or months.  We shall
have more men and a better cause than has yet moved on our stagnant waters. I think our Church,
so called, must presently vanish.  There is a universal timidity, conformity, and rage;  and
on the other hand the most resolute realism in the young.  The man Alcott bides his time. 
I have a young poet in this village named Thoreau, who writes the truest verses.  I pine to
show you my treasures;  and tell your wife, we have women who deserve to know her.

                               --R.W. Emerson

The Yankees read and study the new volumes of Miscellanies even more than the old.  The "Sam
Johnson" and "Scott" are great favorites.  Stearns Wheeler corrected proofs affectionately
to the last.  Truth and Health be with you alway!

XLVI. Carlyle to Emerson

Scotsbrig, Ecclefechan, 4 September, 1839

Dear Emerson,--A cheerful and right welcome Letter of yours, dated 4th July, reached me here,
duly forwarded, some three weeks ago;  I delayed answering till there could some definite statement,
as to bales of literature shipped or landed, or other matter of business forwarded a stage,
be made.  I am here, with my Wife, rusticating again, these two months;  amid diluvian rains,
Chartism, Teetotalism, deficient harvest, and general complaint and confusion;  which not being
able to mend, all that I can do is to heed them as little as possible.  "What care I for the
house?  I am only a lodger."  On the whole, I have sat under the wing of Saint Swithin;  uncheery,
sluggish, murky, as the wettest of his Days;--hoping always, nevertheless, that blue sky, figurative
and real, does exist, and will demonstrate itself by and by.  I have been the stupidest and
laziest of men.  I could not write even to you, till some palpable call told me I must.

Yesternight, however, there arrives a despatch from Fraser, apprising me that the American
Miscellanies, second cargo, are announced from Portsmouth, and "will probably be in the River
tomorrow";  where accordingly they in all likelihood now are, a fair landing and good welcome
to them!  Fraser "knows not whether they are bound or not";  but will soon know.  The first
cargo, of which I have a specimen here, contented him extremely;  only there was one fatality,
the cloth of the binding was multiplex, party-colored, some sets done in green, others in red,
blue, perhaps skyblue!  Now if the second cargo were not multiplex, party-colored, nay multiplex,
in exact concordance with the first, as seemed almost impossible--?--Alas, in that case, one
could not well predict the issue!--Seriously, it is a most handsome Book you have made;  and
I have nothing to return but thanks and again thanks.  By the bye, if you do print a small
second edition of the First Portion, I might have had a small set of errata ready:  but where
are they?  The Book only came into my hand here a few days ago;  and I have been whipt from
post to pillar without will of my own, without energy to form a will!  The only glaring error
I recollect at this moment is one somewhere in the second article on Jean Paul:   "Osion" (I
think, or some such thing) instead of "Orson":  it is not an original American error, but copied
from the English;  if the Printer get his eye upon it, let him rectify;  if not, not, I deserve
to have it stand against me there.  Fraser's joy, should the Books prove either unbound or
multiplex in the right way, will be great and unalloyed;  he calculates on selling all the
copies very soon.  He has begun reprinting Goethe's Wilhelm Meister too, the Apprenticeship
and Travels under one;  and hopes to remunerate himself for that by and by:  whether there
will then remain any small peculium for me is but uncertain; meanwhile I correct the press,
nothing doubting.  One of these I call my best Translation, the other my worst;  I have read
that latter, the Apprenticeship, again in these weeks;  not without surprise, disappointment,
nay, aversion here and there, yet on the whole with ever new esteem.  I find I can pardon all
things in a man except purblindness, falseness of vision,--for, indeed, does not that presuppose
every other kind of falseness?

But let me hasten to say that the French Revolution, five hundred strong for the New England
market, is also, as Fraser advises, "to go to sea in three days."  It is bound in red cloth,
gilt;  a pretty book, James says;  which he will sell for twenty-five shillings here;--nay,
the London brotherhood have "subscribed" for one hundred and eighty at once, which he considers
great work.  I directed him to consign to Little and Brown in Boston, the property of the thing
yours, with such phraseology and formalities as they use in those cases.  I paid him for it
yesterday (to save discount) L95;  that is the whole cost to me, twenty or thirty pounds more
than was once calculated on.  Do the best with it you can, my friend;  and never mind the result.
If the thing fail, as is likely enough, we will simply quit that transport trade, and my experience
must be paid for. The Title-page was "Boston:  Charles C. Little and James Brown," then in
a second line and smaller type, "London James Fraser"; to which arrangement James made not
the slightest objection, or indeed rather seemed to like it.--So much for trade matters:  is
it not enough?  I declare I blush sometimes, and wonder where the good Emerson gets all his
patience.  We shall be through the affair one day, and find something better to speak about
than dollars and pounds.  And yet, as you will say, why not even of dollars?  Ah, there are
leaden-worded [bills] of exchange I have seen which have had an almost sacred character to
me! Pauca verba.

Doubt not your new utterances are eagerly waited for here;  above all things the "Book" is
what I want to see.  You might have told me what it was about.  We shall see by and by.  A
man that has discerned somewhat, and knows it for himself, let him speak it out, and thank
Heaven.  I pray that they do not confuse you by praises;  their blame will do no harm at all.
Praise is sweet to all men;  and yet alas, alas, if the light of one's own heart go out, bedimmed
with poor vapors and sickly false glitterings and flashings, what profit is it!  Happier in
darkness, in all manner of mere outward darkness, misfortune and neglect, "so that thou canst
endure,"--which however one cannot to all lengths.  God speed you, my Brother!  I hope all
good things of you;  and wonder whether like Phoebus Apollo you are destined to be a youth
forever.--Sterling will be right glad to hear your praises;  not unmerited, for he is a man
among millions that John of mine, though his perpetual mobility wears me out at times.  Did
he ever write to you?  His latest speculation was that he should and would;  but I fancy it
is among the clouds again.  I hear from him the other day, out of Welsh villages where he passed
his boyhood, &c., all in a flow of "lyrical recognition," hope, faith, and sanguine unrest;
I have even some thoughts of returning by Bristol (in a week or so, that must be), and seeing
him.  The dog has been reviewing me, he says, and it is coming out in the next Westminster!
He hates terribly my doctrine of "Silence."  As to America and lecturing, I cannot in this
torpid condition venture to say one word.  Really it is not impossible;  and yet lecturing
is a thing I shall never grow to like;  still less lionizing, Martineau-ing:  Ach Gott!  My
Wife sends a thousand regards;  she will never get across the ocean, you must come to her;
she was almost dead crossing from Liverpool hither, and declares she will never go to sea for
any purpose whatsoever again.  Never till next time!  My good old Mother is here, my Brother
John (home with his Duke from Italy); all send blessings and affection to you and yours.  Adieu
till I get to London.

Yours ever,
       T. Carlyle

XLVII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 8 December, 1839

My Dear Emerson,--What a time since we have written to one another! was it you that defalcated?
Alas, I fear it was myself; I have had a feeling these nine or ten weeks that you were expecting
to hear from me;  that I absolutely could not write. Your kind gift of Fuller's Eckermann*
was handed in to our Hackney coach, in Regent Street, as we wended homewards from the railway
and Scotland, on perhaps the 8th of September last;  a welcome memorial of distant friends
and doings:  nay, perhaps there was a Letter two weeks prior to that:--I am a great sinner!
But the truth is, I could not write;  and now I can and do it!

---------- * "Conversations with Goethe.  Translated from the German of Eckermann.  By S.M.
Fuller."  Boston, 1839.  This was the fourth volume in the series of "Specimens of Foreign
Standard Literature," edited by George Ripley.  The book has a characteristic Preface by Miss
Fuller, in which she speaks of Carlyle as "the only competent English critic" of Goethe. ----------

Our sojourn in Scotland was stagnant, sad;  but tranquil, well let alone,--an indispensable
blessing to a poor creature fretted to fiddle-strings, as I grow to be in this Babylon, take
it as I will.  We had eight weeks of desolate rain;  with about eight days bright as diamonds
intercalated in that black monotony of bad weather.  The old Hills are the same;  the old Streams
go gushing along as in past years, in past ages;  but he that looks on them is no longer the
same:  and the old Friends, where are they?  I walk silent through my old haunts in that country;
sunk usually in inexpressible reflections, in an immeasurable chaos of musings and mopings
that cannot be reflected or articulated.  The only work I had on hand was one that would not
prosper with me: an Article for the Quarterly Review on the state of the Working Classes here.
The thoughts were familiar to me, old, many years old;  but the utterance of them, in what
spoken dialect to utter them!  The Quarterly Review was not an eligible vehicle, and yet the
eligiblest;  of Whigs, abandoned to Dilettantism and withered sceptical conventionality, there
was no hope at all; the London-and-Westminster Radicals, wedded to their Benthamee Formulas,
and tremulous at their own shadows, expressly rejected my proposal many months ago:  Tories
alone remained;  Tories I often think have more stuff in them, in spite of their blindness,
than any other class we have;--Walter Scott's sympathy with his fellow creatures, what is it
compared with Sydney Smith's, with a Poor Law Commissioner's!  Well:  this thing would not
prosper with me in Scotland at all;  nor here at all, where nevertheless I had to persist writing;
writing and burning, and cursing my destiny, and then again writing.  Finally the thing came
out, as an Essay on Chartism;  was shown to Lockhart, according to agreement;  was praised
by him, but was also found unsuitable by him;  suitable to explode a whole fleet of Quarterlies
into sky-rockets in these times!  And now Fraser publishes it himself, with some additions,
as a little Volume;  and it will go forth in a week or two on its own footing;  and England
will see what she has to say to it, whether something or nothing;  and one man, as usual, is
right glad that he has nothing more to do with it. This is the reason why I could not write.
I mean to send you the Proof-sheets of this thing, to do with as you see cause;  there will
be but some five or six, I think.  It is probable my New England brothers may approve some
portions of it;  may be curious to see it reprinted;  you ought to say Yes or No in regard
to that.  I think I will send all the sheets together;  or at farthest, at two times.

Fraser, when we returned hither, had already received his Miscellanies;  had about despatched
his five hundred French Revolutions, insured and so, forth, consigned, I suppose, to your protection
and the proper booksellers;  probably they have got over from New York into your neighborhood
before now.  Much good may they do you!  The Miscellanies, with their variegated binding, proved
to be in perfect order;  and are now all sold; with much regret from poor James that we had
not a thousand more of them!  This thousand he now sets about providing by his own industry,
poor man;  I am revising the American copy in these days;  the printer is to proceed forthwith.
I admire the good Stearns Wheeler as I proceed;  I write to him my thanks by this post, and
send him by Kennet a copy of Goethe's Meister, for symbol of acknowledgment.  Another copy
goes off for you, to the care of Little and Company.  Fraser has got it out two weeks ago;
a respectable enough book, now that the version is corrected somewhat.  Tell me whether you
dislike it less;  what you do think of it?  By the by, have you not learned to read German
now? I rather think you have.  It is three months spent well, if ever months were, for a thinking
Englishman of this age.--I hope Kennet will use more despatch than he sometimes does.  Thank
Heaven for these Boston Steamers they project!  May the Nereids and Poseidon favor them!  They
will bring us a thousand miles nearer, at one step;  by and by we shall be of one parish after all.

During Autumn I speculated often about a Hegira into New England this very year:  but alas!
my horror of Lecturing continues great;  and what else is there for me to do there?  These
several years I have had no wish so pressing as to hold my peace.  I begin again to feel some
use in articulate speech;  perhaps I shall one day have something that I want to utter even
in your side of the water.  We shall see.  Patience, and shuffle the cards.--I saw no more
of Webster;  did not even learn well where he was, till lately I noticed in the Newspapers
that he had gone home again.  A certain Mr. Brown (I think) brought me a letter from you, not
long since;  I forwarded him to Cambridge and Scotland:  a modest inoffensive man.  He said
he had never personally met with Emerson.  My Wife recalled to him the story of the Scotch
Traveler on the top of Vesuvius:  "Never saw so beautiful a scene in the world!"--"Nor I,"
replied a stranger standing there, "except once;  on the top of Dunmiot, in the Ochil Hills
in Scotland."--"Good Heavens!  That is a part of my Estate, and I was never there!  I will
go thither."  Yes, do!--We have seen no other Transoceanic that I remember.  We expect your
Book soon!  We know the subject of your Winter Lectures too; at least Miss Martineau thinks
she does, and makes us think so. Heaven speed the work!  Heaven send my good Emerson a clear
utterance, in all right ways, of the nobleness that dwells in him!  He knows what silence means;
let him know speech also, in its season the two are like canvas and pigment, like darkness
and light-image painted thereon;  the one is essential to the other, not possible without the
other.

Poor Miss Martineau is in Newcastle-on-Tyne this winter;  sick, painfully not dangerously;
with a surgical brother-in-law.  Her meagre didacticalities afflict me no more;  but also her
blithe friendly presence cheers me no more.  We wish she were back. This silence, I calculate,
forced silence, will do her much good. If I were a Legislator, I would order every man, once
a week or so, to lock his lips together, and utter no vocable at all for four-and-twenty hours:
it would do him an immense benefit, poor fellow.  Such racket, and cackle of mere hearsay and
sincere-cant, grows at last entirely deafening, enough to drive one mad, --like the voice of
mere infinite rookeries answering your voice!  Silence, silence!  Sterling sent you a Letter
from Clifton, which I set under way here, having added the address. He is not well again, the
good Sterling;  talks of Madeira this season again:  but I hope otherwise.  You of course read
his sublime "article"?  I tell him it was--a thing untellable!

Mr. Southey has fallen, it seems, into a mournful condition: oblivion, mute hebetation, loss
of all faculty.  He suffered greatly, nursing his former wife in her insanity, for years till
her relief by death;  suffered, worked, and made no moan;  the brunt of the task over, he sank
into collapse in the hands of a new wife he had just wedded.  What a lot for him;  for her
especially!  The most excitable but most methodic man I have ever seen.  [Greek] that is a
word that awaits us all.--I have my brother here at present;  though talking of Lisbon with
his Buccleuchs.  My Wife seems better than of late winters.  I actually had a Horse, nay actually
have it, though it has gone to the country till the mud abate again!  It did me perceptible
good;  I mean to try it farther.  I am no longer so desperately poor as I have been for twelve
years back;  sentence of starvation or beggary seems revoked at last, a blessedness really
very considerable.  Thanks, thanks!  We send a thousand regards to the two little ones, to
the two mothers.  Valete nostrum memores.

                     --T. Carlyle

XLVIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 12 December, 1839

My Dear Friend,--Not until the 29th of November did the five hundred copies of the French Revolution
arrive in Boston. Fraser unhappily sent them to New York, whence they came not without long
delays.  They came in perfectly good order, not in the pretty red you told us of, but in a
sober   green;--not so handsome and salable a back, our booksellers said, as their own; but
in every other respect a good book.  The duties at the New York Custom House on these and a
quantity of other books sent by Fraser amounted to $400.36, whereof, I understand, the French
Revolution pays for its share $243.  No bill has been brought us for freight, so we conclude
that you have paid it.  I confided the book very much to the conscience and discretion of Little
and Brown, and after some ciphering they settle to sell it at $3.75 per copy, wherefrom you
are to get the cost of the book, and (say) $1.10 per copy profit, and no more.  The booksellers
eat the rest.  The book is rather too dear for our market of cheap manufactures, and therefore
we are obliged to give the booksellers a good percentage to get it off at all:  for we stand
in daily danger of a cheap edition from some rival neighbor.  I hope to give you good news
of its sale soon, although I have been assured today that no book sells, the times are so bad.
Brown had disposed of fifty or sixty copies to the trade, and twelve at retail.  He doubted
not to sell them all in six months....

Several persons have asked me to get some copies of the German Romance sent over here for sale.
Last week a gentleman desired me to say he wanted four copies, and today I have been charged
to procure another.  I think, if you will send me by Little and Brown, through Longman, six
copies, we can find an immediate market.

It gives me great joy to write to my friend once more, slow as you may think me to use the
privilege.  For a good while I dared believe you were coming hither, and why should I write?--and
now for weeks I have been absorbed in my foolish lectures, of which only two are yet delivered
and ended.  There should be eight more;  subject, "The Present Age."  Out of these follies
I remember you with glad heart.  Lately I had Sterling's letter, which, since I have read his
article on you, I am determined to answer speedily.  I delighted in the spirit of that paper,
loving you so well and accusing you so conscientiously.  What does he at Clifton?  If you communicate
with him, tell him I thank him for his letter, and hold him dear.  I am very happy lately in
adding one or two new friends to my little circle, and you may be sure every friend of mine
is a friend of yours.  So when you come here you shall not be lonely.  A new person is always
to me a great event, and will not let me sleep.--I believe I was not wise to volunteer myself
to this fever fit of lecturing again.  I ought to have written instead in silence and serenity.
Yet I work better under this base necessity, and then I have a certain delight (base also?)
in speaking to a multitude.  But my joy in friends, those sacred people, is my consolation
for the mishaps of the adventure, and they for the most part come to me from this publication
of myself.--After ten or twelve weeks I think I shall address myself earnestly to writing,
and give some form to my formless scripture.

I beg you will write to me and tell me what you do, and give me good news of your wife and
your brother.  Can they not see the necessity of your coming to look after your American interests?
My wife and mother love both you and them.  A young man of New York told me the other day he
was about getting you an invitation from an Association in that city to give them a course
of lectures on such terms as would at least make you whole in the expenses of coming thither.
We could easily do that in Boston.

                                --R.W. Emerson

What manner of person is Heraud?  Do you read Landor, or know him, O seeing man?  Farewell!

XLIX. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 6 January, 1840

My Dear Emerson,--It is you, I surely think, that are in my debt now;*  nevertheless I must
fling you another word:  may it cross one from you coming hither--as near the Lizard Point
as it likes!

--------- * The preceding letter had not yet arrived. ---------

Some four sheets making a Pamphlet called Chartism addressed to you at Concord are, I suppose,
snorting along through the waters this morning, part of the Cargo of the "British Queen." 
At least I gave them to Mr. Brown (your unseen friend) about ten days ago, who promised to
dispose of them;  the "British Queen," he said, was the earliest chance.  The Pamphlet itself
(or rather booklet, for Fraser has gilt it, &c., and asks five shillings for it as a Book)
is out since then;  radicals and others yelping considerably in a discordant manner about it;
I have nothing other to say to you about it than what I said last time, that the sheets were
yours to do with as you saw good,--to burn if you reckoned that fittest.  It is not entirely
a Political Pamphlet;  nay, there are one or two things in it which my American Friends specially
may like:  but the interests discussed are altogether English, and cannot be considered as
likely to concern New-Englishmen very much.  However, it will probably be itself in your hand
before this sheet, and you will have determined what is fit.

A copy of Wilhelm Meister, two copies, one for Stearns Wheeler, are probably in some of the
"Line Ships" at this time too:  good voyage to them!  The French Revolutions were all shipped,
invoiced, &c.;  they have, I will suppose, arrived safe, as we shall hear by and by.  What
freightages, landings, and embarkments!  For only two days ago I sent you off, through Kennet,
another Book:  John Sterling's Poems, which he has collected into a volume.  Poor John has
overworked himself again, or the climate without fault on his side has proved too hard for
him:  he sails for Madeira again next week!  His Doctors tell me there is no intrinsic danger;
but they judge the measure safe as one of precaution.  It is very mortifying he had nestled
himself down at Clifton, thinking he might now hope to continue there; and lo! he has to fly
again.--Did you get his letter?  The address to him now will be, for three months to come,
"Edward Sterling, Esq., South Place, Knightsbridge, London," his Father's designation.

Farther I must not omit to say that Richard Monckton Milnes purposes, through the strength
of Heaven, to review you!  In the next Number of the London and Westminster, the courageous
youth will do this feat, if they let him.  Nay, he has already done it, the Paper being actually
written he employed me last week in negotiating with the Editors about it;  and their answer
was, "Send us the Paper, it promises very well."  We shall see whether it comes out or not;
keeping silence till then.  Milnes is a Tory Member of Parliament;  think of that!  For the
rest, he describes his religion in these terms:  "I profess to be a Crypto-Catholic."  Conceive
the man!  A most bland-smiling, semi- quizzical, affectionate, high-bred, Italianized little
man, who has long olive-blond hair, a dimple, next to no chin, and flings his arm round your
neck when he addresses you in public society! Let us hear now what he will say, of the American
Vates.*

--------- * The end of this letter has been cut off. ---------

L. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 17 January, 1840

Dear Emerson,--Your Letter of the 12th of December, greatly, to my satisfaction, has arrived;
the struggling Steamship, in spite of all hurricanes, has brought it safe across the waters
to me. I find it good to write you a word in return straightway;  though I think there are
already two, or perhaps even three, messages of mine to you flying about unacknowledged somewhere
under the moon; nay, the last of them perhaps may go by the same packet as this, --having been
forwarded, as this will be, to Liverpool, after the "British Queen" sailed from London.

Your account of the French Revolution packages, and prognosis of what Little and Brown will
do with them, is altogether as it should be.  I apprised Fraser instantly of his invoiceless
Books, &c.;  he answers, that order has been taken in that long since, "instructions" sent,
and, I conclude, arrangements for bills least of all forgotten.  I mentioned what share of
the duty was his;  and that your men meant to draw on him for it.  That is all right.  As to
the French Revolution, I agree with your Booksellers altogether about it;  the American Edition
actually pleases myself better for looking at;  nor do I know that this new English one has
much superiority for use:  it is despicably printed, I fear, so far as false spellings and
other slovenlinesses can go.  Fraser "finds the people like it"; credat Judaeus;--as for me,
I have told him I will not print any more with that man, but with some other man.  Curious
enough, the price Little and Brown have fixed upon was the price I remember guessing at beforehand,
and the result they propose to realize for me corresponds closely with my prophecy too.  Thanks,
a thousand thanks, for all the trouble you never grudge to take. We shall get ourselves handsomely
out of this export and import speculation;  and know, taught at a rather cheap rate, not to
embark in the like again.

There went off a Wilhelm Meister for you, and a letter to announce it, several weeks ago; 
that was message first.  Your traveling neighbor, Brown, took charge of a Pamphlet named Chartism,
to be put into the "British Queen's" Letter-bag (where I hope, and doubt not, he did put it,
though I have seen nothing of him since);  that and a letter in reference to it was message
second.  Thirdly, I sent off a volume of Poems by Sterling, likewise announced in that letter.
And now this that I actually write is the fourth (it turns out to be) and last of all the messages.
Let us take Arithmetic along with us in all things.--Of Chartism I have nothing farther to
say, except that Fraser is striking off another One Thousand copies to be called Second Edition;
and that the people accuse me, not of being an incendiary and speculative Sansculotte threatening
to become practical, but of being a Tory,--thank Heaven.  The Miscellanies are at press;  at
two presses;  to be out, as Hope asseverates, in March:  five volumes, without Chartism; with
Hoffmann and Tieck from German Romance, stuck in somewhere as Appendix;  with some other trifles
stuck in elsewhere, chiefly as Appendix;  and no essential change from the Boston Edition.
Fraser, "overwhelmed with business," does not yet send me his net result of those Two Hundred
and Fifty Copies sold off some time ago;  so soon as he does, you shall hear of it for your
satisfaction.--As to German Romance, tell my friends that it has been out of print these ten
years;  procurable, of late not without difficulty, only in the Old-Bookshops.  The comfort
is that the best part of it stands in the new Wilhelm Meister: Fraser and I had some thought
of adding Tieck's and Richter's parts, had they suited for a volume;  the rest may without
detriment to anybody perish.

Such press-correctings and arrangings waste my time here, not in the agreeablest way.  I begin,
though in as sulky a state of health as ever, to look again towards some new kind of work.
I have often thought of Cromwell and Puritans;  but do not see how the subject can be presented
still alive.  A subject dead is not worth presenting.  Meanwhile I read rubbish of Books; 
Eichhorn, Grimm, &c.;  very considerable rubbish;  one grain in the cart load worth pocketing.
It is pity I have no appetite for lecturing!  Many applications have been made to me here;--none
more touching to me than one, the day before yesterday, by a fine, innocent-looking Scotch
lad, in the name of himself and certain other Booksellers' shopmen eastward in the City!  I
cannot get them out of my head.  Poor fellows! they have nobody to say an honest word to them,
in this articulate-speaking world, and they apply to me.--For you, good friend, I account you
luckier;  I do verily:  lecture there what innumerable things you have got to say on "The Present
Age";--yet withal do not forget to write either, for that is the lasting plan after all.  I
have a curious Note, sent me for inspection the other day;  it is addressed to a Scotch Mr.
Erskine (famed among the saints here) by a Madame Necker, Madame de Stael's kinswoman, to whom
he, the said Mr. Erskine, had lent your first Pamphlet at Geneva.  She regards you with a certain
love, yet a shuddering love.  She says, "Cela sent l'Americain qui apres avoir abattu les forets
a coup de hache, croit qu'on doit de meme conquerir le monde intellectuel"!  What R.M. Milnes
will say of you we hope also to see.--I know both Heraud and Landor;  but alas, what room is
here!  Another sheet with less of "Arithmetic" in it will soon be allowed me.  Adieu, dear friend.

Yours, ever and ever,
                T. Carlyle

LI. Emerson to Carlyle*

New York, 18 March, 1840

My Dear Friend,--I have just seen the steamer "British Queen" enter the harbor from sea, and
here lies the "Great Western," to sail tomorrow.  I will not resist hints so broad upon my
long procrastinations.  You shall have at least a tardy acknowledgment that I received in January
your letter of December, which I should have answered at once had it not found me absorbed
in writing foolish lectures which were then in high tide.  I had written you, a little earlier,
tidings of the receipt of your French Revolution.  Your letter was very welcome, as all your
letters are.  I have since seen tidings of the Essay on Chartism in an English periodical,
but have not yet got my proof-sheets.  They are probably still rolling somewhere outside of
this port, for all our packetships have had the longest passages:  only one has come in for
many a week.  We will be as patient as we can.

-------- * This letter appeared in the Athenaeum, for July 22, 1882 --------

I am here on a visit to my brother, who is a lawyer in this city, and lives at Staten Island,
at a distance of half an hour's sail. The city has such immense natural advantages and such
capabilities of boundless growth, and such varied and ever increasing accommodations and appliances
for eye and ear, for memory and wit, for locomotion and lavation, and all manner of delectation,
that I see that the poor fellows that live here do get some compensation for the sale of their
souls.  And how they multiply!  They estimate the population today at 350,000, and forty years
ago, it is said, there were but 20,000.  But I always seem to suffer some loss of faith on
entering cities.  They are great conspiracies;  the parties are all maskers, who have taken
mutual oaths of silence not to betray each other's secret and each to keep the other's madness
in countenance.  You can scarce drive any craft here that does not seem a subornation of the
treason.  I believe in the spade and an acre of good ground. Whoso cuts a straight path to
his own bread, by the help of God in the sun and rain and sprouting of the grain, seems to
me an universal workman.  He solves the problem of life, not for one, but for all men of sound
body.  I wish I may one day send you word, or, better, show you the fact, that I live by my
hands without loss of memory or of hope.  And yet I am of such a puny constitution, as far
as concerns bodily labor, that perhaps I never shall.  We will see.

Did I tell you that we hope shortly to send you some American verses and prose of good intent?
My vivacious friend Margaret Fuller is to edit a journal whose first number she promises for
the 1st of July next, which I think will be written with a good will if written at all.  I
saw some poetical fragments which charmed me,--if only the writer consents to give them to
the public.

I believe I have yet little to tell you of myself.  I ended in the middle of February my ten
lectures on the Present Age.  They are attended by four hundred and fifty to five hundred people,
and the young people are so attentive;  and out of the hall ask me so many questions, that
I assume all the airs of Age and Sapience.  I am very happy in the sympathy and society of
from six to a dozen persons, who teach me to hope and expect everything from my countrymen.
We shall have many Richmonds in the field presently.  I turn my face homeward to-morrow, and
this summer I mean to resume my endeavor to make some presentable book of Essays out of my
mountain of manuscript, were it only for the sake of clearance.  I left my wife, and boy, and
girl,--the softest, gracefulest little maiden alive, creeping like a turtle with head erect
all about the house,--well at home a week ago. The boy has two deep blue wells for eyes, into
which I gladly peer when I am tired.  Ellen, they say, has no such depth of orb, but I believe
I love her better than ever I did the boy.  I brought my mother with me here to spend the summer
with William Emerson and his wife and ruddy boy of four years.  All these persons love and
honour you in proportion to their knowledge and years.

My letter will find you, I suppose, meditating new lectures for your London disciples.  May
love and truth inspire them!  I can see easily that my predictions are coming to pass, and
that. having waited until your Fame wag in the floodtide, we shall not now see you at all on
western shores.  Our saintly Dr. T---, I am told, had a letter within a year from Lord Byron's
daughter, informing the good man of the appearance of a certain wonderful genius in London
named Thomas Carlyle, and all his astonishing workings on her own and her friends' brains,
and him the very monster whom the Doctor had been honoring with his best dread and consternation
these five years.  But do come in one of Mr. Cunard's ships as soon as the booksellers have
made you rich.  If they fail to do so, come and read lectures which the Yankees will pay for.
Give my love and hope and perpetual remembrance to your wife, and my wife's also, who bears
her in her kindest heart, and who resolves every now and then to write to her, that she may
thank her for the beautiful Guido.

You told me to send you no more accounts.  But I certainly shall, as our financial relations
are grown more complex, and I wish at least to relieve myself of this unwonted burden of booksellers'
accounts and long delays, by sharing them.  I have had one of their estimates by me a year,
waiting to send.  Farewell.

                                  --R.W.E.

LII. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 1 April, 1840

My Dear Emerson,--A Letter has been due to you from me, if not by palpable law of reciprocity,
yet by other law and right, for some week or two.  I meant to write, so soon as Fraser and
I had got a settlement effected.  The traveling Sumner being about to return into your neighborhood,
I gladly accept his offer to take a message to you.  I wish I had anything beyond a dull Letter
to send!  But unless, as my Wife suggests, I go and get you a D'Orsay Portrait of myself, I
see not what there is!  Do you read German or not?  I now and then fall in with a curious German
volume, not perhaps so easily accessible in the Western world. Tell me.  Or do you ever mean
to learn it?  I decidedly wish you would.--As to the D'Orsay Portrait, it is a real curiosity:
Count D'Orsay the emperor of European Dandies portraying the Prophet of spiritual Sansculottism!
He came rolling down hither one day, many months ago, in his sun-chariot, to the bedazzlement
of all bystanders;  found me in dusty gray-plaid dressing-gown, grim as the spirit of Presbyterianism
(my Wife said), and contrived to get along well enough with me.  I found him a man worth talking
to, once and away;  a man of decided natural gifts; every utterance of his containing in it
a wild caricature likeness of some object or other;  a dashing man, who might, some twenty
years sooner born, have become one of Bonaparte's Marshals, and is, alas,--Count D'Orsay! 
The Portrait he dashed off in some twenty minutes (I was dining there, to meet Landor); we
have not chanced to meet together since, and I refuse to undergo any more eight-o'clock dinners
for such an object.--Now if I do not send you the Portrait, after all?

Fraser's account of the Miscellanies stood legibly extended over large spaces of paper, and
was in several senses amazing to look upon.  I trouble you only with the result.  Two Hundred
and forty-eight copies (for there were some one or two "imperfect"):  all these he had sold,
at two guineas each;  and sold swiftly, for I recollect in December, or perhaps November, he
told me he was "holding back," not to run entirely out.  Well, of the L500 and odd so realized
for these Books, the portion that belonged to me was L239,--the L261 had been the expense of
handing the ware   to Emerson over the counter, and drawing in the coin for it!  "Rules of
the Trade";--it is a Trade, one would surmise, in which the Devil has a large interest.  However,--not
to spend an instant polluting one's eyesight with that side of it,--let me feel joyfully, with
thanks to Heaven and America, that I do receive such a sum in the shape of wages, by decidedly
the noblest method in which wages could come to a man.  Without Friendship, without Ralph Waldo
Emerson, there had been no sixpence of that money here.  Thanks, and again thanks.  This earth
is not an unmingled ball of Mud, after all.  Sunbeams visit it;--mud and sunbeams are the stuff
it has from of old consisted of.--I hasten away from the Ledger, with the mere good- news that
James is altogether content with the "progress" of all these Books, including even the well-abused
Chartism Book.  We are just on the point of finishing our English reprint of the Miscellanies;
of which I hope to send you a copy before long.

And now why do not you write to me?  Your Lectures must be done long ago.  Or are you perhaps
writing a Book?  I shall be right glad to hear of that;  and withal to hear that you do not
hurry yourself, but strive with deliberate energy to produce what in you is best.  Certainly,
I think, a right Book does lie in the man!  It is to be remembered also always that the true
value is determined by what we do not write!  There is nothing truer than that now all but
forgotten truth;  it is eternally true.  He whom it concerns can consider it.--You have doubtless
seen Milnes's review of you.  I know not that you will find it to strike direct upon the secret
of Emerson, to hit the nail on the head, anywhere at all;  I rather think not.  But it is gently,
not unlovingly done;--and lays the first plank of a kind of pulpit for you here and throughout
all Saxondom:  a thing rather to be thankful for.  It on the whole surpassed my expectations.
Milnes tells me he is sending you a copy and a Note, by Sumner.  He is really a pretty little
robin-redbreast of a man.

You asked me about Landor and Heraud.  Before my paper entirely vanish, let me put down a word
about them.  Heraud is a loquacious scribacious little man, of middle age, of parboiled greasy
aspect, whom Leigh Hunt describes as "wavering in the most astonishing manner between being
Something and Nothing."  To me he is chiefly remarkable as being still--with his entirely enormous
vanity and very small stock of faculty--out of Bedlam. He picked up a notion or two from Coleridge
many years ago;  and has ever since been rattling them in his head, like peas in an empty bladder,
and calling on the world to "List the Music of the spheres."  He escapes assassination, as
I calculate, chiefly by being the cheerfulest best-natured little creature extant.--You cannot
kill him he laughs so softly, even when he is like killing you.  John Mill said, "I forgive
him freely for interpreting the Universe, now when I find he cannot pronounce the h's!"  Really
this is no caricature;  you have not seen the match of Heraud in your days.  I mentioned to
him once that Novalis had said, "The highest problem of Authorship is the writing of a Bible."--
"That is precisely what I am doing!" answered the aspiring, unaspirating.*--Of Landor I have
not got much benefit either.  He is not an original man;  in most cases one but sighs over
the spectacle of common place torn to rags.  I find him painful as a writer;  like a soul ever
promising to take wing into the Aether, yet never doing it, ever splashing webfooted in the
terrene mud, and only splashing the worse the more he strives!  Two new tragedies of his that
I read lately are the fatalest stuff I have seen for long:  not an ingot;  ah no, a distracted
coil of wire-drawings salable in no market.  Poor Landor has left his Wife (who is said to
be a fool) in Italy, with his children, who would not quit her;  but it seems he has honestly
surrendered all his money to her, except a bare annuity for furnished lodgings;  and now lives
at Bath, a solitary sexagenarian, in that manner.  He visits London in May;  but says always
it would kill him soon:  alas, I can well believe that! They say he has a kind heart;  nor
does it seem unlikely:  a perfectly honest heart, free and fearless, dwelling amid such hallucinations,
excitations, tempestuous confusions, I can see he has.  Enough of him!  Me he likes well enough,
more thanks to him;  but two hours of such speech as his leave me giddy and undone.  I have
seen some other Lions, and Lion's-providers; but consider them a worthless species.--When will
you write, then?  Consider my frightful outlook with a Course of Lectures to give "On Heroes
and Hero-worship,"--from Odin to Robert Burns! My Wife salutes you all.  Good be in the Concord
Household!

Yours ever,
         T. Carlyle

-------- * There is an account of Heraud by an admirer in the Dial for October, 1842, p. 241.
It contrasts curiously and instructively with Carlyle's sketch. --------

LIII. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 21 April, 1840

My Dear Friend,--Three weeks ago I received a letter from you following another in the week
before, which I should have immediately acknowledged but that I was promised a private opportunity
for the 25th of April, by which time I promised myself to send you sheets of accounts.  I had
also written you from New York about the middle of March.  But now I suppose Mr. Grinnell--a
hospitable, humane, modest gentleman in Providence, R.I., a merchant, much beloved by all his
townspeople, and, though no scholar, yet very fond of silently listening to such-- is packing
his trunk to go to England.  He offered to carry any letters for me, and as at his house during
my visit to Providence I was eagerly catechised by all comers concerning Thomas Carlyle, I
thought it behoved me to offer him for his brethren, sisters, and companions' sake, the joy
of seeing the living face of that wonderful man.  Let him see thy face and pass on his way.
I who cannot see it, nor hear the voice that comes forth of it, must even betake me to this
paper to repay the best I can the love of the Scottish man, and in the hope to deserve more.

Your letter announces Wilhelm Meister, Sterling's Poems, and Chartism.  I am very rich, or
am to be.  But Kennet is no Mercury.  Wilhelm and Sterling have not yet made their appearance,
though diligently inquired after by Stearns Wheeler and me.  Little and Brown now correspond
with Longman, not with Kennet.  But they will come soon, perhaps are already arrived.

Chartism arrived at Concord by mail not until one of the last days of March, though dated by
you, I think, the 21st of December.  I returned home on the 3d of April, and found it waiting.
All that is therein said is well and strongly said, and as the words are barbed and feathered
the memory of men cannot choose but carry them whithersoever men go.  And yet I thought the
book itself instructed me to look for more.  We seemed to have a right to an answer less concise
to a question so grave and humane, and put with energy and eloquence.  I mean that whatever
probabilities or possibilities of solution occurred should have been opened to us in some detail.
But now it stands as a preliminary word, and you will one day, when the fact itself is riper;
write the Second Lesson;  or those whom you have influenced will.  I read the book twice hastily
through, and sent it directly to press, fearing to be forestalled, for the London book was
in Boston already.  Little and Brown are to print it. Their estimate is:--

     Printing page for page with copy ....... $63.35
     Paper  .....................................44.00
     Binding .................................. 90.00
     Total .................................... $197.35

Costing say twenty cents per copy for one thousand copies bound. The book to sell for fifty
cents:  the Bookseller's commission twenty percent on the Retail price.  The author's profit
fifteen cents per copy.  They intend, if a cheap edition is published,-- no unlikely event,--to
stitch the book as pamphlet, and sell it at thirty-eight cents.  I expect it from the press
in a few days. I shall not on this sheet break into the other accounts, as I am expecting hourly
from Munroe's clerk an entire account of R.W.E. with T.C., of which I have furnished him with
all the facts I had, and he is to write it out in the manner of his craft.  I did not give
it to him until I had made some unsuccessful experiments myself.

I am here at work now for a fortnight to spin some single cord out of my thousand and one strands
of every color and texture that lie raveled around me in old snarls.  We need to be possessed
with a mountainous conviction of the value of our advice to our contemporaries, if we will
take such pains to find what that is.  But no, it is the pleasure of the spinning that betrays
poor spinners into the loss of so much good time.  I shall work with the more diligence on
this book to-be of mine, that you inform me again and again that my penny tracts are still
extant;  nay, that, beside friendly men, learned and poetic men read and even review them.
I am like Scholasticus of the Greek Primer, who was ashamed to bring out so small a dead child
before such grand people.  Pygmalion shall try if he cannot fashion a better, certainly a bigger.--I
am sad to hear that Sterling sails again for his health.  I am ungrateful not to have written
to him, as his letter was very welcome to me.  I will not promise again until I do it.  I received
a note last week forwarded by Mr. Hume from New York, and instantly replied to greet the good
messenger to our Babylonian city, and sent him letters to a few friends of mine there.  But
my brother writes me that he had left New York for Washington when he went to seek him at his
lodgings. I hope he will come northward presently, and let us see his face.

22 April.--Last evening came true the promised account drawn up by Munroe's clerk, Chapman.
I have studied it with more zeal than success.  An account seems an ingenious way of burying
facts:  it asks wit equal to his who hid them to find them.  I am far as yet from being master
of this statement, yet, as I have promised it so long, I will send it now, and study a copy
of it at my leisure.  It is intended to begin where the last account I sent you, viz. of French
Revolution, ended, with a balance of $9.53 in your favor.... I send you also a paper which
Munroe drew up a long time ago by way of satisfying me that, so far as the first and second
volumes [of the Miscellanies] were concerned, the result had accorded with the promise that
you should have $1,000 profit from the edition.  We prosper marvelously on paper, but the realized
benefit loiters.  Will you now set some friend of yours in Fraser's shop at work on this paper,
and see if this statement is true and transparent.  I trust the Munroe firm,-- chiefly Nichols,
the clerical partner,--and yet it is a duty to understand one's own affair.  When I ask, at
each six months' reckoning, why we should always be in debt to them, they still remind me of
new and newer printing, and promise correspondent profits at last.  By sending you this account
I make it entirely an affair between you and them.  You will have all the facts which any of
us know.  I am only concerned as having advanced the sums which are charged in the account
for the payment of paper and printing, and which promise to liquidate themselves soon, for
Munroe declares he shall have $550 to pay me in a few days.  For the benefit of all parties
bid your clerk sift them.  One word more and I have done with this matter, which shall not
be weary if it comes to good,--the account of the London five hundred French Revolution is
not yet six months old, and so does not come in.  Neither does that of the second edition of
the first and second volumes of the Miscellanies, for the same reason. They will come in due
time.  I have very good hope that my friend Margaret Fuller's Journal--after many false baptisms
now saying it will be called The Dial, and which is to appear in July-- will give you a better
knowledge of our young people than any you have had.  I will see that it goes to you when the
sun first shines on its face.  You asked me if I read German, and I forget if I have answered.
I have contrived to read almost every volume of Goethe, and I have fifty-five, but I have read
nothing else: but I have not now looked even into Goethe for a long time. There is no great
need that I should discourse to you on books, least of all on his books;  but in a lecture
on Literature, in my course last winter, I blurted all my nonsense on that subject, and who
knows but Margaret Fuller may be glad to print it and send it to you?  I know not.

A Bronson Alcott, who is a great man if he cannot write well, has come to Concord with his
wife and three children and taken a cottage and an acre of ground to get his living by the
help of God and his own spade.  I see that some of the Education people in England have a school
called "Alcott House" after my friend. At home here he is despised and rejected of men as much
as was ever Pestalozzi.  But the creature thinks and talks, and I am glad and proud of my neighbor.
He is interested more than need is in the Editor Heraud.  So do not fail to tell me of him.
Of Landor I would gladly know your knowledge.  And now I think I will release your eyes.

Yours always,
         R.W. Emerson

LIV. Emerson to Carlyle

Concord, 30 June, 1840

My Dear Carlyle,--Since I wrote a couple of letters to you,--I know not exactly when, but in
near succession many weeks ago,-- there has come to me Wilhelm Meister in three volumes, goodly
to see, good to read,--indeed quite irresistible;--for though I thought I knew it all, I began
at the beginning and read to the end of the Apprenticeship, and no doubt shall despatch the
Travels, on the earliest holiday.  My conclusions and inferences therefrom I will spare you
now, since I appended them to a piece I had been copying fairly for Margaret Fuller's Dial,--"Thoughts
on Modern Literature," and which is the substance of a lecture in my last winter's course.
But I learn that my paper is crowded out of the first Number, and is not to appear until October.
I will not reckon the accidents that threaten the ghost of an article through three months
of pre- existence!  Meantime, I rest your glad debtor for the good book. With it came Sterling's
Poems, which, in the interim, I have acknowledged in a letter to him.  Sumner has since brought
me a gay letter from yourself, concerning, in part, Landor and Heraud; in which as I know justice
is not done to the one I suppose it is not done to the other.  But Heraud I give up freely
to your tender mercies:  I have no wish to save him.  Landor can be shorn of all that is false
and foolish, and yet leave a great deal for me to admire.  Many years ago I have read a hundred
fine memorable things in the Imaginary Conversations, though I know well the faults of that
book, and the Pericles and Aspasia within two years has given me delight.  I was introduced
to the man Landor when I was in Florence, and he was very kind to me in answering a multitude
of questions.  His speech, I remember, was below his writing.  I love the rich variety of his
mind, his proud taste, his penetrating glances, and the poetic loftiness of his sentiment,
which rises now and then to the meridian, though with the flight, I own, rather of a rocket
than an orb, and terminated sometimes by a sudden tumble.  I suspect you of very short and
dashing reading in his books;  and yet I should think you would like him,--both of you such
glorious haters of cant. Forgive me, I have put you two together twenty times in my thought
as the only writers who have the old briskness and vivacity.  But you must leave me to my bad
taste and my perverse and whimsical combinations.

I have written to Mr. Milnes who sent me by Sumner a copy of his article with a note.  I addressed
my letter to him at "London,"-- no more.  Will it ever reach him?  I told him that if I should
print more he would find me worse than ever with my rash, unwhipped generalization.  For my
journals, which I dot here at home day by day, are full of disjointed dreams, audacities, unsystematic
irresponsible lampoons of systems, and all manner of rambling reveries, the poor drupes and
berries I find in my basket after endless and aimless rambles in woods and pastures. I ask
constantly of all men whether life may not be poetic as well as stupid?

I shall try and persuade Mr. Calvert, who has sent to me for a letter to you, to find room
in his trunk for a poor lithograph portrait of our Concord "Battle-field," so called, and village,
that you may see the faint effigy of the fields and houses in which we walk and love you. 
The view includes my Grandfather's house (under the trees near the Monument), in which I lived
for a time until I married and bought my present house, which is not in the scope of this drawing.
I will roll up two of them, and, as Sterling seems to be more nomadic than you, I beg you will
send him also this particle of foreign parts.

With this, or presently after it, I shall send a copy of the Dial.  In this number what say
you to the Elegy written by a youth who grew up in this town and lives near me,--Henry Thoreau?
A criticism on Persius is his also. From the papers of my brother Charles, I gave them the
fragments on Homer, Shakespeare, Burke: and my brother Edward wrote the little Farewell, when
last he left his home.  The Address of the Editors to the Readers is all the prose that is
mine, and whether they have printed a few verses for me I do not know.  I am daily expecting
an account for you from Little and Brown. They promised it at this time.  It will speedily
follow this sheet, if it do not accompany it.  But I am determined, if I can, to send one letter
which is not on business.  Send me some word of the Lectures.  I have yet seen only the initial
notices.  Surely you will send me some time the D'Orsay portrait. Sumner thinks Mrs. Carlyle
was very well when he saw her last, which makes me glad.--I wish you both to love me, as I
am affectionately Yours,

                     --R.W. Emerson

LV. Carlyle to Emerson

Chelsea, London, 2 July, 1840

My Dear Emerson,--Surely I am a sinful man to neglect so long making any acknowledgment of
the benevolent and beneficent Arithmetic you sent me!  It is many weeks, perhaps it is months,
since the worthy citizen--your Host as I understood you in some of your Northern States--stept
in here, one mild evening, with his mild honest face and manners;  presented me your Bookseller
Accounts;  talked for half an hour, and then went his way into France.  Much has come and gone
since then;  Letters of yours, beautiful Disciples of yours:--I pray you forgive me!  I have
been lecturing;  I have been sick;  I have been beaten about in all ways.  Nay, at bottom,
it was only three days ago that I got the Bibliopoliana back from Fraser;  to whom, as you
recommended, I, totally inadequate like yourself to understand such things, had straightway
handed them for examination.  I always put off writing till Fraser should have spoken.  I did
not urge him, or he would have spoken any day:  there is my sin.

Fraser declares the Accounts to be made out in the most beautiful manner;  intelligible to
any human capacity;  correct so far as he sees, and promising to yield by and by a beautiful
return of money.  A precious crop, which we must not cut in the blade; mere time will ripen
it into yellow nutritive ears yet.  So he thinks.  The only point on which I heard him make
any criticism was on what he called, if I remember, "the number of Copies delivered,"--that
is to say, delivered by the Printer and Binder as actually available for sale.  The edition
being of a Thousand, there have only 984 come bodily forth;  16 are "waste." Our Printers,
it appears, are in the habit of adding one for every fifty beforehand, whereby the waste is
usually made good, and more;  so that in One Thousand there will usually be some dozen called
"Author's copies" over and above.  Fraser supposes your Printers have a different custom. 
That is all.  The rest is apparently every-way right;  is to be received with faith; with faith,
charity, and even hope,--and packed into the bottom of one's drawer, never to be looked at
more except on the outside, as a memorial of one of the best and helpfulest of men! In that
capacity it shall lie there.

My Lectures were in May, about Great Men.  The misery of it was hardly equal to that of former
years, yet still was very hateful. I had got to a certain feeling of superiority over my audience;
as if I had something to tell them, and would tell it them.  At times I felt as if I could,
in the end, learn to speak.  The beautiful people listened with boundless tolerance, eager
attention.  I meant to tell them, among other things, that man was still alive, Nature not
dead or like to die;  that all true men continued true to this hour,--Odin himself true, and
the Grand Lama of Thibet himself not wholly a lie.  The Lecture on Mahomet ("the Hero as Prophet")
astonished my worthy friends beyond measure.  It seems then this Mahomet was not a quack? 
Not a bit of him!  That he is a better Christian, with his "bastard Christianity," than the
most of us shovel-hatted?  I guess than almost any of you!--Not so much as Oliver Cromwell
("the Hero as King") would I allow to have been a Quack.  All quacks I asserted to be and to
have been Nothing, chaff that would not grow:  my poor Mahomet "was wheat with barn sweepings";
Nature had tolerantly hidden the barn sweepings;  and as to the wheat, behold she had said
Yes to it, and it was growing!--On the whole, I fear I did little but confuse my esteemed audience:
I was amazed, after all their reading of me, to be understood so ill;-- gratified nevertheless
to see how the rudest speech of a man's heart goes into men's hearts, and is the welcomest
thing there. Withal I regretted that I had not six months of preaching, whereby to learn to
preach, and explain things fully!  In the fire of the moment I had all but decided on setting
out for America this autumn, and preaching far and wide like a very lion there.  Quit your
paper formulas, my brethren,--equivalent to old wooden idols, undivine as they:  in the name
of God, understand that you are alive, and that God is alive!  Did the Upholsterer make this
Universe?  Were you created by the Tailor?  I tell you, and conjure you to believe me literally,
No, a thousand times No! Thus did I mean to preach, on "Heroes, Hero-worship, and the Heroic";
in America too.  Alas! the fire of determination died away again:  all that I did resolve upon
was to write these Lectures down, and in some way promulgate them farther.  Two of them accordingly
are actually written;  the Third to be begun on Monday:  it is my chief work here, ever since
the end of May. Whether I go to preach them a second time extempore in America rests once more
with the Destinies.  It is a shame to talk so much about a thing, and have it still hang in
nubibus:  but I was, and perhaps am, really nearer doing it than I had ever before been.  A
month or two now, I suppose, will bring us back to the old nonentity again.  Is there, at bottom,
in the world or out of it, anything one would like so well, with one's whole heart well, as
PEACE?  Is lecturing and noise the way to get at that?  Popular lecturer!  Popular writer!
If they would undertake in Chancery, or Heaven's Chancery, to make a wise man Mahomet Second
and Greater, "Mahomet of Saxondom," not reviewed only, but worshiped for twelve centuries by
all Bulldom, Yankee- doodle-doodom, Felondom New Zealand, under the Tropics and in part of
Flanders,--would he not rather answer:  Thank you;  but in a few years I shall be dead, twelve
Centuries will have become Eternity;  part of Flanders Immensity:  we will sit still here if
you please, and consider what quieter thing we can do!  Enough of this.

