"Mizzer Churman and Gent-tul-men of the Banquet: I have never made mineralogy a study, nor
zoology, nor any other kind of 'ology,' but if there haint m-i-n-e-r-l in the deestrick which
you gent-tul-men have jist purchased from me at sitch magnifercent figers, then the imagernation
of man is a deception an' a snare. But gent-tul-men, you caint expect to find m-i-n-e-r-l without
plenty uv diggin'. I have been diggin' thar for the past forty year fur it, an' haint never
struck it yit, I hope you gen-tul-men will strike it some time endurin' the next forty year."
Here, with winks and blinks and clinched teeth, the old Colonel pulled his coat tail; he was
spoiling the town boom. But he would not down. There is no excellence without labor gent-tul-men.
If old Vanderbilt hadn't a-been persevering in his pertickler kind uv dig-gin', whar would
he be to-day? He wouldn't now be a rich man, a-ridin' the billers of old ocean in his magnifercent
'yatchet.' If I hadn't a-been perseverin', an' hadn't a-kep on a-dig-gin' an' a-diggin, whar
would I have been to-day? I mout have been seated like you gent-tul-men, at this stupenduous
banquet, with my pockets full of watered stock, and some other old American citizen mout have
been deliverin' this eulogy on our m-i-n-e-r-l resources. Gent-tul-men, my injunction to you
is never to stop diggin'. And while you're a-diggin', cultivate a love for the beautiful, the
true and the good. Speakin' of the beautiful, the true, and the good, gent-tul-men, let us
not forgit woman at this magnifercent banquet--Oh! woman, woman, woman! when the mornin' stars
sung together for joy--an' woman--God bless 'er----Great God, feller citerzens, caint you understand!!!!"

At the close of this great speech the curtain fell to slow music, and there was a panic in
land stocks.

THERE IS MUSIC ALL AROUND US.

There is music all around us, there is music everywhere. There is no music so sweet to the
American ear as the music of politics. There is nothing that kindles the zeal of a modern patriot
to a whiter heat than the prospect of an office; there is nothing that cools it off so quickly
as the fading out of that prospect.

I stood on the stump in Tennessee as a candidate for Governor, and thus I cut my eagle loose:
"Fellow Citizens, we live in the grandest country in the world. It stretches

  From Maine's dark pines and crags of snow
  To where magnolia breezes blow;

It stretches from the Atlantic Ocean on the east, to the Pacific Ocean on the west"--and an
old fellow jumped up in my crowd and threw his hat in the air and shouted: "Let 'er stretch,
durn 'er--hurrah for the Dimocrat Party."

An old Dutchman had a beautiful boy of whom he was very proud; and he decided to find out the
bent of his mind. He adopted a very novel method by which to test him. He slipped into the
little fellow's room one morning and placed on his table a Bible, a bottle of whiskey, and
a silver dollar. "Now," said he, "Ven dot boy comes in, ef he dakes dot dollar, he's goin'
to be a beeznis man; ef he dakes dot Bible he'll be a breacher; ef he dakes dot vwiskey, he's
no goot--he's goin' to be a druenkart." and he hid behind the door to see which his son would
choose. In came the boy whistling. He ran up to the table and picked up the dollar and put
it in his pocket; he picked up the Bible and put it under his arm; then he snatched up the
bottle of whiskey and took two or three drinks, and went out smacking his lips. The old Dutchman
poked his head out from behind the door and exclaimed: "Mine Got--he's goin' to be a bolitician."

There is no music like the music of political discussion. I have heard almost a thousand political
discussions. I heard the great debate between Blaine and Ben Hill; I heard the angry coloquies
between Roscoe Conkling and Lamar; I have heard them on down to the humblest in the land. But
I prefer to give you a scrap of one which occurred in my own native mountains. It was a race
for the Legislature in a mountain county, between a straight Democrat and a straight Republican.
The mountaineers had gathered at the county site to witness the great debate. The Republican
spoke first. He was about six feet two in his socks, as slim as a bean pole, with a head about
the size of an ordinary tin cup and very bald, and he lisped. Webster in all his glory in the
United States Senate never appeared half so great or half so wise. Thus he opened the debate:

"F-e-l-l-o-w T-h-i-t-i-t-h-e-n-s: I come befo' you to-day ath a Republikin candidate, fer to
reprethent you in the lower branch uv the Legithlachah. And, fellow thitithens, ef I thould
thay thumpthin conthernin' my own carreckter, I hope you will excuthe me. I sprung frum one
of the humbletht cabins in all thith lovely land uv thweet liberty; and many a mornin' I have
jumped out uv my little trundle bed onto the puncheon floor, and pulled the splinterth and
the bark off uv the wall of our 'umble cabin, for to make a fire for my weakley parenth. Fellow
thitithenth, I never had no chanthe. All that I am to-day I owe to my own egtherthionth!! and
that aint all. When the cloud of war thwept like a bethom of destructhion over this land uv
thweet liberty, me and my connecthion thouldered our musketh and marched forth on the bloody
battlefield to fight for your thweet liberty! Fellow thitithenth, if you can trust me in the
capathity uv a tholjer, caint you trust me in the capathity uv the Legithlature? I ask my old
Dimocrat competitor for to tell you whar he wath when war shook thith continent from its thenter
to its circumputh! I have put thith quethtion to him on every stump, and he's ath thilent ath
an oysthter. Fellow citithenth, I am a Republikin from printhiple. I believe in every thing
the Republikin Party has ever done, and every thing the Republikin Party ever expecthts to
do. Fellow thitithenth, I am in favor of a high protective tarriff for the protecthion of our
infant induthtreth which are only a hundred yearth old; and fellow thitithenth, I am in favor
of paying of a penthun to every tholjer that fit in the Federal army, while he lives, and after
hethe dead, I'm in favor of paying uv it to hith Exthecutor or hith Adminithtrator."

He took his seat amid great applause on the Republican side of the house, and the old Democrat
who was a much older man, came forward like a roaring lion, to join issue in the great debate,
and thus he "joined:"

"Feller Citerzuns, I come afore you as a Dimocrat canderdate, fur to ripresent you in the lower
branch of the house of the Ligislator. And fust and fomust, hit becomes my duty fer to tell
you whar I stand on the great queshtuns which is now a-agitatin' of the public mind! Fust an'
fomust, feller citerzuns, I am a Dimocrat inside an' out, up one side an' down tother, independent
defatigly. My competitor axes me whar I wuz endurin' the war--Hit's none uv his bizness whar
I wuz. He says he wuz a-fightin' fer yore sweet liberty. Ef he didn't have no more sense than
to stand before them-thar drotted bung-shells an' cannon, that's his bizness, an' hit's my
bizness whar I wuz. I think I have answered him on that pint.

"Now, feller citerzuns, I'll tell you what I'm fur. I am in favor uv payin' off this-here drotted
tariff an' stoppin' of it; an' I'm in favor of collectin' jist enuf of rivenue fur to run the
Government ekernomical administered, accordin' to Andy Jackson an' the Dimocrat flatform. My
competitor never told you that he got wounded endurin' the war. Whar did he git hit at? That's
the pint in this canvass. He got it in the back, a-leadin' of the revance guard on the retreat--that's
whar he got it."

This charge precipitated a personal encounter between the candidates, and the meeting broke
up in a general battle, with brickbats and tan bark flying in the air.

It would be difficult, for those reared amid the elegancies and refinements of life in city
and town, to appreciate the enjoyments of the gatherings and merry-makings of the great masses
of the people who live in the rural districts of our country. The historian records the deeds
of the great; he consigns to fame the favored few; but leaves unwritten the short and simple
annals of the poor--the lives and actions of the millions.

The modern millionaire, as he sweeps through our valleys and around our hills in his palace
car, ought not to look with derision on the cabins of America, for from their thresholds have
come more brains and courage and true greatness than ever eminated from all the palaces of
this world.

The fiddle, the rifle, the axe, and the Bible, symbolizing music, prowess, labor, and free
religion, the four grand forces of our civilization, were the trusty friends and faithful allies
of our pioneer ancestry in subduing the wilderness and erecting the great Commonwealths of
the Republic. Wherever a son of freedom pushed his perilous way into the savage wilds and erected
his log cabin, these were the cherished penates of his humble domicile--the rifle in the rack
above the door, the axe in the corner, the Bible on the table, and the fiddle with its streamers
of ribbon, hanging on the wall. Did he need the charm of music, to cheer his heart, to scatter
sunshine, and drive away melancholy thoughts, he touched the responsive strings of his fiddle
and it burst into laughter. Was he beset by skulking savages, or prowling beasts of prey, he
rushed to his deadly rifle for protection and relief. Had he the forest to fell, and the fields
to clear, his trusty axe was in his stalwart grasp. Did he need the consolation, the promises
and precepts of religion to strengthen his faith, to brighten his hope, and to anchor his soul
to God and heaven, he held sweet communion with the dear old Bible.

The glory and strength of the Republic today are its plain working people.

Long live the common people of America! Long live the fiddle and the bow, the symbols of their
mirth and merriment!

THE TWO COLUMNS.

Music wooes, and leads the human race ever onward, and there are two columns that follow her.
One is the happy column, ringing with laughter and song. Its line of march is strewn with roses;
it is hedged on either side by happy homes and smiling faces. The other is the column of sorrow,
moaning with suffering and distress. I saw an aged mother with her white locks and wrinkled
face, swoon at the Governor's feet; I saw old men tottering on the staff, with broken hearts
and tear stained faces, and heard them plead for their wayward boys. I saw a wife and seven
children, clad in rags, and bare-footed, in mid-winter, fall upon their knees around him who
held the pardoning power. I saw a little girl climb upon the Governor's knee, and put her arms
around his neck; I heard her ask him if he had little girls; then I saw her sob upon his bosom
as though her little heart would break, and heard her plead for mercy for her poor, miserable,
wretched, convict father. I saw want, and woe, and poverty, and trouble, and distress, and
suffering, and agony, and anguish, march in solemn procession before the Gubernatorial door;
and I said: "Let the critics frown and rail, let this heartless world condemn, but he who hath
power and doth not temper justice with mercy, will cry in vain himself for mercy on that great
day when the two columns shall meet! For, thank God, the stream of happy humanity that rolls
on like a gleaming river, and the stream of the suffering and distressed and ruined of this
earth, both empty into the same great ocean of eternity and mingle like the waters, and there
is a God who shall judge the merciful and the unmerciful!"

THERE IS A MELODY FOR EVERY EAR.

The multitudinous harmonies of this world differ in pathos and pitch as the stars differ, one
from another, in glory. There is a style for every taste, a melody for every ear. The gabble
of geese is music to the goose; the hoot of the hoot-owl is lovlier to his mate than the nightingale's
lay; the concert of Signor "Tomasso Cataleny" and Mademoiselle "Pussy" awakeneth the growling
old bachelor from his dreams, and he throweth his boquets of bootjacks and superannuated foot gear.

The peripatetic gentleman from Italy asks no loftier strain than the tune of his hand organ
and the jingle of the nickels, "the tribute of the Cæsars."

The downy-lipped boy counts the explosion of a kiss on the cheek of his darling "dul-ci-ni-a
del To-bo-so" sweeter than an echo from paradise; and it is said that older folks like its music.

The tintinnabulations of the wife's curtain lecture are too precious to the enraptured husband
to be shared with other ears. And in the hush of the bed-time hour, when tired daddies are
seeking repose in the oblivion of sleep, the unearthly bangs on the grand piano below in the
parlor, and the unearthly screams and yells of the budding prima donna, as she sings to her
admiring beau:

  "Men may come and men may go, but
   I go on 'for-ev-oor' 'ev-oor'
   I go on 'for-ev-o-o-r' 'e-v-o-o-r'
   I go on 'for-ev-oor.'"

It is a thing of beauty, and a "nightmare" forever.

MUSIC IS THE WINE OF THE SOUL.

Music is the wine of the soul. It is the exhileration of the palace; it is the joy of the humblest
home; it sparkles and glows in the banquet hall; it is the inspiration of the church. Music
inspires every gradation of humanity, from the orangoutang and the cane-sucking dude with the
single eye glass, up to man.

There was "a sound of revelry by night," where youth and beauty were gathered in the excitement
of the raging ball. The ravishing music of the orchestra charmed from the street a red nosed
old knight of the demijohn, and uninvited he staggered into the brilliant assemblage and made
an effort to get a partner for the next set. Failing in this, he concluded to exhibit his powers
as a dancer; and galloped around the hall till he galloped into the arms of a strong man who
quickly ushered him to the head of the stairs, and gave him a kick and a push; he went revolving
down to the street below and fell flat on his back in the mud; but "truth crushed to earth
will rise again!" He rose, and standing with his back against a lamp post, he looked up into
the faces that were gazing down, and said in an injured tone: "Gentlemen, (hic) you may be
able to fool some people, but, (hic) you can't fool me, (hic) I know what made you kick me
down them stairs, (hic, hic). You don't want me up there--that's the reason!" So, life hath
its discords as well as its harmonies.

There was music in the magnificent parlor of a modern Chesterfield. It was thronged with elegant
ladies and gentlemen. The daughter of the happy household was playing and singing Verdi's "Ah!
I have sighed to rest me;" the fond mother was turning the pages; the fond father was sighing
and resting up stairs, in a state of innocuous desuetude, produced by the "music" of old Kentucky
Bourbon; but he could not withstand the power of the melody below. Quickly he donned his clothing;
he put his vest on over his coat; put his collar on hind side foremost; buttoned the lower
buttonhole of his coat on the top button, stood before the mirror and arranged his hair, and
started down to see the ladies and listen to the music. But he stumped his toe at the top of
the stairs, and slid down head-foremost, and turned a somersault into the midst of the astonished
ladies. The ladies screamed and helped him to his feet, all crying at once: "Are you hurt Mr.
'Rickety'--are you hurt?" Standing with his back against the piano he exclaimed in an assuring
tone: "Why, (hic) of course not ladies, go on with your music, (hic) that's the way I always
come down----!"

Two old banqueters banqueted at a banquet. They banqueted all night long, and kept the banquet
up together all the next day after the banquet had ended. They kept up their banqueting a week
after the banquet was over. But they got separated one morning and met again in the afternoon.
One of them said: "Good mornin':" The other said: "Good evenin'!" "Why;" said one, "It's mornin'
an' that's the sun; I've investigated the queshtun." "No-sir-ee," said the other, "You're mistaken,
it's late in the evenin' an' that's the full moon." They concluded they would have no difficulty
about the matter, and agreed to leave it to the first gentleman they came to to settle the
question. They locked arms and started down the street together; they staggered on till they
came upon another gentleman in the same condition, hanging on a lamp post. One of them approached
him and said: "Friend (hic) we don't desire to interfere with your meditation, (hic) but this
gen'lman says it's mornin' an' that's the sun; I say it's evenin' an' that's the full moon,
(hic) we respectfully ask you (hic) to settle the question." The fellow stood and looked at
it for a full minute, and in his despair replied:

"Gen'lmen, (hic) you'll have to excuse me, (hic) I'm a stranger in this town!"

THE OLD TIME SINGING SCHOOL.

Did you never hear the music of the old time singing school? Oh! who can forget the old school
house that stood on the hill? Who can forget the sweet little maidens with their pink sun bonnets
and checkered dresses, the walks to the spring, and the drinks of pure, cold water from the
gourd? Who can forget the old time courtships at the singing school? When the boy found an
opportunity he wrote these tender lines to his sweetheart:

  "The rose is red; the violet's blue--
   Sugar is sweet, and so are you."

She read it and blushed, and turned it over and wrote on the back of it:

  "As sure as the vine clings 'round the stump,
   I'll be your sweet little sugar lump."

Who can forget the old time singing master? The old time singing master with very light hair,
a dyed mustache, a wart on his left eyelid, and with one game leg, was the pride of our rural
society; he was the envy of man and the idol of woman. His baggy trousers, several inches too
short, hung above his toes like the inverted funnels of a Cunard steamer. His butternut coat
had the abbreviated appearance of having been cut in deep water, and its collar encircled the
back of his head like the belts of Jupiter and the rings of Saturn. His vest resembled the
aurora borealis, and his voice was a cross between a cane mill and the bray of an ass. Yet
beautiful and bright he stood before the ruddy-faced swains and rose-cheeked lassies of the
country, conscious of his charms, and proud of his great ability. He had prepared, after a
long and tedious research of Webster's unabridged dictionary, a speech which he always delivered
to his class.

"Boys and girls," he would say, "Music is a conglomeration of pleasing sounds, or a succession
or combernation of simultaneous sounds modulated in accordance with harmony. Harmony is the
sociability of two or more musical strains. Melody denotes the pleasing combustion of musical
and measured sounds, as they succeed each other in transit. The elements of vocal music consist
of seven original tones which constitute the diatonic scale, together with its steps and half
steps, the whole being compromised in ascending notes and half notes, thus:

  Do re mi fa sol la si do--
  Do si la sol fa mi re do.

Now, the diapason is the ad interium, or interval betwixt and between the extremes of an octave,
according to the diatonic scale. The turns of music consist of the appoggiatura which is the
principal note, or that on which the turn is made, together with the note above and the semi-tone
below, the note above being sounded first, the principal note next and the semi-tone below,
last, the three being performed sticatoly, or very quickly. Now, if you will keep these simple
propersitions clear in your physical mind, there is no power under the broad canister of heaven
which can prevent you from becoming succinctly contaminated with the primary and elementary
rudiments of music. With these few sanguinary remarks we will now proceed to diagnosticate
the exercises of the mornin' hour. Please turn to page thirty-four of the Southern harmony."
And we turned. "You will discover that this beautiful piece of music is written in four-four
time, beginning on the downward beat. Now, take the sound--sol mi do--All in unison--one, two,
three, sing:

  Sol sol, mi fa sol, la sol fa, re re re, re mi fa
  Re mi fa, sol fa mi, do do do--
  Si do re, re re re, mi do si do, re do si la sol,
  Si do re, re mi fa sol la, sol fa mi, do do do."

THE GRAND OPERA.

I heard a great Italian Tenor sing in the Grand Opera, and Oh! how like the dew on the flowers
is the memory of his song! He was playing the role of a broken-hearted lover in the opera of
the "Bohemian Girl." I can only repeat it as it impressed me--an humble young man from the
mountains who never before had heard the Grand Opera:

  "When ethaer-r-r leeps and ethaer-r-r hairts,
   Their-r-r tales auf luff sholl tell,
   In longwidge whose ex-cess impair-r-r-ts.
   The power-r-r-r they feel so well,
   There-r-r-e may per-haps in-a such a s-c-e-n-e
   Some r-r-re-co-lec-tion be,
   Auf days thot haive as hop-py bean--
   Then you'll-a r-r-r-re-mem-b-a-e-r-r-r me-e-e,
   Then you'll-a r-re-mem-b-a-e-r-r,
   You'll-a r-re-mem-ber a-me-e-e!!"

MUSIC.

The spirit of music, like an archangel, presides over mankind and the visible creation. Her
afflatus, divinely sweet, divinely powerful, is breathed on every human heart, and inspires
every soul to some nobler sentiment, some higher thought, some greater action.

O music, sweetest, sublimest ideal of Omniscience, first-born of God, fairest and loftiest
Seraph of the celestial hierarchy, Muse of the beautiful, daughter of the Universe!

In the morning of eternity, when the stars were young, her first grand oratorio burst upon
raptured Deity, and thrilled the wondering angels; all heaven shouted; ten thousand times ten
thousand jeweled harps, ten thousand times ten thousand angel tongues caught up the song; and
ever since, through all the golden cycles, its breathing melodies, old as eternity, yet ever
new as the flitting hours, have floated on the air of heaven. The Seraph stood, with outstretched
wings, on the horizon of heaven--clothed in light, ablaze with gems; and with voice attuned,
swept her burning harp strings, and lo! the blue infinite thrilled with her sweetest note.
The trembling stars heard it, and flashed their joy from every flaming center. The wheeling
orbs that course their paths of light were vibrant with the strain, and pealed it back into
the glad ear of God. The far off milky way, bright gulf-stream of astral glories, spanning
the ethereal deep, resounded with its harmonies, and the star-dust isles floating in that river
of opal, re-echoed the happy chorus from every sparkling strand.

"THE PARADISE OF FOOLS."

