The Colosseum, in the same Park, is a building of great dimensions, and novel appropriation,
and therefore calculated to excite very popular attention. Near this is the Diorama, an edifice
of singular construction, destined for the public display of two pictures. A new line of communication
from this Park to Pall Mall has been completed within the last few years, by a wide and handsome
road called Regent Street.

London University--The situation of the first University founded in this immense city is most
peculiarly favourable, being equally removed from the busy and confined part of the metropolis,
and from the fashionable and idle; whilst it is not inconveniently remote from either extremity.
The building was commenced on the 30th of April, 1827, when the Duke of Sussex laid the first
stone, in the presence of a large concourse of noblemen and gentlemen. The design is by William
Wilkins, Esq., R.A., who has evinced in the principal elevation and general character of the
edifice considerable taste and science. When completed, it is intended to consist of a central
part, and two wings projecting at right angles from the extremities of the former. The first
portion only of this is at present finished. It extends from north to south 430 feet, with
a depth, from east to west, including the two semicircular theatres, of about 200 feet. The
elevation is at once classical and chaste, having a bold and rich portico in the centre, elevated
on a plinth, to the height of the first story (19 feet,) and is approached by numerous steps,
which are arranged to produce a fine effect. Twelve Corinthian columns support a flattened
pediment, in the tympanum of which is to be a composition in basso-relievo, analogous to science
and literature. Behind this pediment is a cupola, finished by a lantern light, in imitation
of a peripteral temple, crowning and ornamenting a grand octagonal vestibule, or saloon. North
of this is the museum of natural history, 118 feet by 50, and 23 feet in height, opening to
the museum of anatomy, which latter communicates with two rooms for professors, and to one
of the large theatres, or lecture-rooms. East of the vestibule is a large hall, and to the
south is the great library, corresponding in size, &c. with the museum of natural history;
the small library; rooms for the librarian, for apparatus, and also another large theatre.
The ground-floor consists of rooms for lectures, the Professor's offices, laboratory, museum,
a spacious cloister 213 feet by 24; rooms for the anatomical school, &c. In the basement are
other apartments for the anatomical schools, for the chemical laboratory, the students' common
room, kitchen, stewards' room, refreshment rooms, housekeeper's room, vaults, &c.

At the British Museum a new room, to contain the late king's library, has been built and fitted
up from the designs of Mr. R. Smirke. It is the largest apartment in this country, its measurement
being 300 feet in length, by 30 feet in width, and 30 feet high,

The St. Katherine's Docks, recently formed near the Tower, will increase this species of accommodation,
and be a great improvement to a district where reform and alteration are much required. By
a statement published by the Committee in October, 1828, it appears that "the first stone was
laid 3rd of May, 1827," and that a grand ceremony was exhibited on the 25th of October, 1828,
of opening the Docks. On that occasion, nine vessels, of from 516 to 343 tons burden, entered
the docks to load and discharge their freights. Above 1,200 houses, warehouses, &c. were purchased
and taken down, to make room for the new works. Accommodation is provided for the stowage of
210,000 tons of merchandize; and, from the improved construction of the warehouses, these goods
will be always housed under cover. The fixed capital for completing this great commercial undertaking
is 1,352,752l.

A Collier Dock, on a large scale, has been projected to be excavated and formed in the Isle
of Dogs, near Blackwall for which Mr. George Rennie has made plans and estimates.

The New London Bridge, now nearly completed, is a work of great magnitude, science, and novelty.
Its erection, in our times, and following the recent finishing of the bridges of Waterloo and
Southwark, is a memorable event in the annals of London.

The projected Tunnel under the Thames is not only a novel object in this part of London, but,
should it ever be accomplished, it will be a wonderful triumph of human talents over seeming
impossibilities.

Although so many useful and even important improvements have been recently effected in the
metropolis, there are yet many things left undone that ought to be done, and others proceeding
in a manner that will neither be creditable nor beneficial. The widening and opening of New
Streets from Pall Mall to the British Museum; from that national repository to Waterloo Bridge,
skirting the two theatres;--from the Strand to Lincoln's Inn Fields, and thence to Holborn;
and again to Covent Garden;--from Charing Cross to Somerset House;--from Oxford Road to Bloomsbury
Square and Holborn;--from Blackfriars' Bridge to Clerkenwell, removing and clearing away that
nuisance in a public thoroughfare, Fleet Market;--from Moorfields to the Bank, and thence obliquely
to Southwark Bridge;--widening and opening the area around St. Paul's Cathedral,--are all calculated
to be very beneficial to the public. Other essential alterations are still required; and the
legislature, as well as all public-spirited individuals, should co-operate to promote them.
The formation of open, respectable quays, terraces, and streets, on the banks of our fine river,
is an event greatly to be desired.

The vastly-increasing population of London, has occasioned a great augmentation of Churches
and Chapels, both for congregations of the establishment, and for dissenters. In consequence
of urgent, and argumentative appeals by some truly pious and benevolent Christians, the legislature
has granted a large sum for the purpose of aiding parochial committees, to build new churches
or enlarge their old ones.

The New Post Office, in St. Martin's-le-Grand, is fast approaching conclusion, and will constitute
one of the most imposing public buildings of the city. Preparatory to the re-erection of the
whole of the Blue Coat School, or Christ's Hospital, in Newgate Street, a spacious and handsome
Hall has been erected, from the designs of Mr. Shaw.

A new Chapel, of novel design, being of an amphitheatrical form, has been recently completed,
from the designs of W. Brooks, architect. It is seated near the Catholic Chapel, in Finsbury
Circus.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SKETCH-BOOK.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIRST AND LAST CRIME.

[Blackwood's Magazine for the current month contains a sketchy article under this title, which
displays much of the breadth and vigour of one of Maga's contributors. Our extract is in the
form of the confession of a reckless, daring spirit, who being imprisoned for murder, commits
suicide. The early developement of his bad passions is admirably drawn, and altogether this
is one of the most powerfully written papers that we have lately met with.]

