"Yes," she repeated, "I am free." And as she drew away her hands she made a movement almost
imperceptible and instantly checked, as if she had thrown off some heavy weight. He read it,
however, as he stood there with his eyes upon her face, which was bright with a thankfulness
and a beauty that, although he had seen something of her possibilities of expression, he had
never dreamed of. How glad she was! A pang went through him. He understood it afterward. It
had meant that he was asking himself if Katie's face, when he told her the news, would look
so happy at having gained him as this girl did at having lost him; and he had not been sure
of it. All the autumn there had been strange fancies in his head about Katie. He had had no
right, under the circumstances, to send Lord Bulchester away; but it had seemed strange to
him that any girl's love of power should be carried so far if it were mere love of power that
moved her. But no shadow on Elizabeth's face showed him that she dreamed of change in Katie,
and Stephen felt rebuked that friendship could find its object more perfect than love did.

"Will the wedding be on the anniversary of the other one?" asked Elizabeth. "I suppose it will,"
she added; "Katie ought to have it so. That will come in three weeks. It will be a little time
before you sail, if you go." And she smiled rather sadly, then glanced about her to make sure
that the last remark had not been overheard.

"Ah!" he said, "I see you know all about the scheme on foot. But it is safe to trust you. You
are very much interested," he added, watching her.

"Very much. My father does trust me a good deal. But I hope I shall not make him sorry for it."

Archdale kept on looking at her, and smiling.

"You prefer making people glad," he answered.

"But perhaps you will not go--now?" she said.

"Oh, yes. I promised my services to Colonel Pepperell last summer; that holds me, you see.
Besides, I want to do my part."

"I could not imagine you standing idle by while others were striking the blows for our country,"
said Elizabeth. "Katie has told me a good deal about you at one time and another. Dear Katie!"
she added in an undertone, with an exquisite gentleness in her face. Then, looking back from
the window where her eyes had wandered, she turned off her emotion by some gay speech.

Very soon afterward the young man left her. For he was on his way to carry the news to Katie
who was then in Boston visiting her aunt. But to go to her he passed Mr. Royal's door, and
his wishes, as well as his promise, made him delay his own happiness for a moment to see Elizabeth
rejoice. He saw her rejoice to his heart's content; and then he took leave of her for his happy
meeting with his betrothed.

[TO BE CONTINUED.]

[Footnote 3: Copyright, 1884, by Frances C. Sparhawk.]

       *       *       *       *       *

EDITOR'S TABLE.

Evidences are constantly multiplying that American history is a subject which has not lost
its interest to investigators or to readers. This diligence on the part of their respective
writers, and the interest in them manifested by the great public is commendable, and in a measure
dispels the oft-repeated saying that Americans are a nation of novel-readers.

It is gratifying, also, to record another fact. During the third week in July the Old South
lectures for young people, illustrative of "The War for the Union," were inaugurated in Boston.
The ancient "meeting-house" was crowded with earnest students to hear the first lecture on
slavery, delivered by William Lloyd Garrison, Jr. The speaker gave a vivid sketch of the chief
events of the anti-slavery movement, and of the part taken by George Thompson, Garrison, Phillips,
Whittier, and Harriet Martineau.

       *       *       *       *       *

Students of the anti-slavery struggle should not forget, however, how much the success of that
struggle was due to Mrs. Maria Weston Chapman, whose death occurred at Weymouth, Mass., on
July 12. She was not only a magna pars of the struggle, but one of the most remarkable women
of our time. Mrs. Maria Child used to relate how Mrs. Chapman, clad in the height of fashion
of that day, came into the first anti-slavery fair, an entire stranger to every one present.
"She looked around over the few tables, scantily supplied, and stopped by some faded artificial
flowers. The poor commodity only indicated the utter poverty of means to carry on the work.
We thought her a spy, or maybe she was a slave-holder." From that time she entered heartily
into the work. She became the life of the Female Anti-slavery Society in Boston, she spoke
often in public; her pen was never idle when it could advance the cause of equal rights and
freedom.

Mr. Lowell, in his rhymed letter, descriptive of an anti-slavery bazaar at Faneuil Hall, and
the celebrities of the cause there assembled, drew the portrait of this gifted woman with his
usual felicitous touch:--

  "There was Maria Chapman, too,
  With her swift eyes of clear steel-blue,
  The coiled up mainspring of the Fair,
  Originating everywhere
  The expansive force, without a sound,
  That whirls a hundred wheels around;
  Herself meanwhile as calm and still
  As the bare crown of Prospect Hill;
  A noble woman, brave and apt,
  Cumæa's sybil not more rapt,
  Who might, with those fair tresses shorn,
  'The Maid of Orlean' casque have worn;
  Herself the Joan of our Arc,
  For every shaft a shining mark."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is one thing to be a good ship-builder for the government, and quite another thing to be
in favor with the Secretary of the Navy, at Washington. This is the lesson, and the only lesson,
which can be deduced from the two dispatches which have been transmitted over the country,
namely: that the "Dolphin" has been rejected, and that John Roach, her builder, has failed.

The case has its value as a warning to American ship-builders. They are given to understand
that the closest compliance with the requisitions of the department in the process of constructing
a vessel, and that under the direction of experts, perfectly competent to determine what is
good work and what is bad, will avail them nothing unless they are in favor with the Secretary
when the vessel is offered for acceptance. And they are warned that the Department of Justice
holds it perfectly legal for the Navy Department to lay upon them such conditions as to construction
as must determine the capacity of the vessel for speed, and yet reject the vessel as not fast
enough. They may be fined heavily for not having used their discretion, and yet may have been
denied discretion as to the plans used.

It will be remembered by all who have watched the case, that the "Dolphin" was found satisfactory
and in full accordance with the terms of the contract by one naval board, and that it was then
condemned by another board of no greater weight or capacity. If this fact be remembered, it
should be weighed with the full understanding that naval officers, chosen by Mr. Whitney for
this service, are just as much dependents of the new Secretary as their predecessors were of
Mr. Chandler. The last set of officials, as experts, were not superior to those which constituted
the first; and yet Mr. Whitney bases his refusal to accept the vessel upon the contradiction
of the first report to the second. If the first report was worthless, why not the second, in
the light of all the facts?

What is needed to-day is a board of examiners fully competent to pronounce on the merits, of
not only the "Dolphin" but of any and every other ship that shall be built, and fully sundered
from, and independent of, political and official relations with the Navy Department. The nearest
approach to this is the report of the body of experts--ship-builders, and ship-captains, experts
in ship's materials, and the like--whom Mr. Roach invited to examine the "Dolphin." The report
of these gentlemen flatly contradicts Mr. Whitney's board on points which are matters of fact,
and not of opinion, and therefore throws the burden of proof upon Mr. Whitney himself. Until
some equally unpolitical and unofficial body refutes it, the treatment Mr. Roach has received
will be set down to other motives than the best.

       *       *       *       *       *

The republic at last bows its head in sorrow at the death of its greatest citizen. In awe and
admiration it honors the character which, heroic to the last, has never been more conspicuously
shown than during the months of that depressing illness, the end of which must have been to
him a welcome entering into rest.

The same unquailing courage, and the same calm, grim fortitude which shed their fadeless lustre
upon his whole extraordinary career were evinced by General Grant at the last moments of his
life. For months the nation has hung over his bedside, awaiting the silent foot-fall of the
unseen conqueror of all that is mortal.

The nation's loss is not measured by the vacant place. For nearly a decade General Grant had
been only a private citizen, wielding no sceptre of authority, and exercising no sway in the
public councils. And yet his going is a loss; for he was everywhere felt, not merely by what
he had done, but by what he was,--one of the great reserve forces of our national commonwealth.

"Great men," said Burke, "are the guideposts and landmarks of the State." General Grant was
the guidepost of a victorious war, and a landmark of a magnanimous peace. A pillar of strength
has fallen; and yet a broken shaft is not the fit emblem of his life. It is a finished and
splendid column, crowned with its full glory.

The chieftain is dead. The American people themselves will now judge him, after the calm evening
and the serene repose of retirement, more justly than in the stress and storm of struggle.
The asperities of angry contentions have passed; the flaws have faded, and the blemishes are
dimmed, while the splendor of General Grant's achievements and the simple grandeur of his character
have gained a brighter halo as the years have rolled by. The clouds and the smoke of battle
have long since lifted; the fragments and the scenes are swallowed in the majestic drama; and
to-day we see the hero elevated on his true pedestal of fame through the just perspective of
history.

It is given to few men to bear suffering with the fortitude displayed by the departed hero;
it is given to fewer still to await in patience and without complaint the certain issue of
suffering in death. But it is neither his fortitude, nor his patience, nor his touching solicitude,
nor his unselfish industry which distinguished him in an almost unique degree. It was rather,
in one word, his simplicity, his strong but unpretentious character, and his firm but magnanimous
nature.

Of such, plainly, is the kingdom of Heaven, and it is a national glory that of such, too, in
the instance of General Grant, the American people was never neglectful.

       *       *       *       *       *

If every person who is inclined to attribute to Socialism all the discontent now prevalent
among the laboring classes of this country, would carefully read Mr. Laurence Gronlund's remarkable
book, entitled, The Coöperative Commonwealth,--an exposition of modern Socialism,--he would
perhaps awaken to a comprehension of the fact that true Socialism is neither communism, nor
lawlessness, nor anarchy. We wish this book could be scattered, by millions, among the intelligent
people of this land, if for no other purpose than to root out many of the false ideas which
are current, as well as to inculcate a logical explanation of much that is transpiring at the
present moment.

We are told that at least 30,000 laborers are out of work in Cincinnati, and that full as many
are unemployed in Chicago. The same state of affairs prevails in other large cities. These
people, we are also told by the newspapers, are "exposed to the designs of socialistic leaders,
and liable to embrace their dangerous schemes." Hence, it is to be inferred, of course, that
timely measures should be instituted to "guard the unreflecting against socialistic theories
and measures."

Despair sometimes calls for a desperate remedy. When men are in physical or financial distress
they are apt to lose their heads, so to speak, and to be subject to the wildest delusions and
hallucinations. A great many of the unfortunates now out of employment have been already reduced
to misery and want; but it is a mistake to suppose that the philosophy of Socialism can afford
them any relief or consolation, or that it can incite them to mad deeds of violence. There
are certain demagogues in this country who, assuming to be Socialists, are ready to stir up
the popular mind, even to the shedding of blood; but such men are few in numbers, and wield
only a limited influence.

Now, Socialism holds that the impending reconstruction of society, which Huxley predicts, will
be brought about by the logic of events, and teaches that the coming revolution, which every
intelligent mind must foresee, is strictly an evolution. Socialists of this school reason from
no assumed first principle, like the French, who start from "social equality," or like Herbert
Spencer, who lays it down as an axiom that "every man has freedom to do all that he wills,
provided he infringes not the like freedom of every other man;" but basing themselves squarely
on experience,--not individual but universal experience,--they can, and do present clear-cut,
definite solutions.

It is this true German Socialism which Mr. Gronlund, in the work previously alluded to, very
clearly presents, and which should be more generally understood than it is.

Apropos of the subject, it will not be amiss to recall a statement made by Frederic Harrison,
namely:--

"The working-class is the only class which is not a class. It is the nation. It represents,
so to speak, the body as a whole, of which the other classes only represent special organs.
These organs, no doubt, have great and indispensable functions, but for most purposes of government
the state consists of the vast laboring majority. Its welfare depends on what their lives are
like."

       *       *       *       *       *

AMONG THE BOOKS.

It seems but a short time since we pored interestedly over the pages of Mr. Stanley's "Through
the Dark Continent," which described the exploration of the Congo in 1876-7, from Nyongwe to
the Atlantic Ocean. The final results of that first expedition, which surpasses all anticipation,
are now recorded in two handsome volumes from the same pen, bearing the title: The Congo and
the Founding of Its Free State.[4] When Mr. Stanley, in 1878, had crossed the African continent
and had reached the mouth of the Congo, he took ship for Europe. He had reached Marseilles,
where, in the railway-station, he was met by two commissioners who had been sent by Leopold
II., King of the Belgians, for the express purpose of interesting Mr. Stanley in the project
entertained by that king of founding a State in the heart of Africa. This project was subsequently
accepted, and all the powers of Europe entered into the scheme. Mr. Stanley now relates, for
the first time, the story of the founding,--a story which is as entertaining as the liveliest
piece of fiction, and as marvellous in its unfolding as would be the sudden discovery of a
new and habitable world. From the mouth of the Congo to Stanley Falls is about fifteen hundred
miles, and the basin of this immense river contains more than a million and a half square miles;
that is, a territory nearly one-half as large as that of the United States. The opening of
this great country to the commerce of the world is one of the greatest events of the nineteenth,
indeed of any, century. By the agreement of the sovereigns of Europe, no European power is
ever to be permitted to seize the sea-coasts of the continent, or to levy differential customs
and high tariffs upon the commerce of the world such as our New England and Middle States now
levy upon the West and South. Forever hereafter a merchant or producer dwelling in the Congo
can dispose of his ivory and ebony, or any other product whatsoever, in whatever market it
will yield him the most money, and buy his shovel and hoe, his gunpowder, and the like, where
he can buy them the best and the cheapest. It is, perhaps, not too much to affirm that the
founding of such an empire on such a basis will make in time as great a change in commercial
affairs as the establishment of the American Republic has made in political affairs and in
the relation of men to governments. The work of Mr. Stanley is destined to have a large influence.
It is the most important book on Africa that has ever been written at any period of time or
in any language. And yet no record of good deeds grandly done could savor of more modesty and
unpretentiousness than does the narrative in these two noble volumes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Anna Laurens Dawes, the daughter of Senator Dawes, of Massachusetts, has undertaken "an
explanation of the Constitution and government of the United States," in her book entitled
How We are Governed.[5] Believing, as we do, that a knowledge of politics is an essential part
of education, we hail this work as one of the hopeful signs of the times, and commend it especially
to young people, because the author has so accurately and comprehensively accomplished her
task as to make it worthy of confidence. Simplicity in writing is the first needed qualification
of one who undertakes to instruct youth. Miss Dawes exhibits this quality, and takes nothing
for granted as to the previous knowledge of her readers. Her plan follows the order of the
Constitution, and that document is quoted in full, and in its several parts under the division
of "The Legislature," "The Executive," "The Citizen," and "The States."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the practical nature of the contents of The Hunter's Handbook[6] which will commend it
to all readers, and which stamps it as an indispensable work for all persons who "go camping
out." This is just the season for such healthful recreation and resting among the hills or
along shore. It is just the season, too, when, unless he knows exactly how to manage, the camper-out
is subjected to a great many annoyances as well as pleasures. The little work under notice
contains many valuable hints and suggestions, while its notes of all camp requisites and receipts
are exceedingly valuable. Some of the author's quaint aphorisms on camp economy, camp neatness
and cleanliness, and on the signs and portents of the weather, will tend to keep the reader
in good humor. It would require years of experience for new beginners to acquire the information
which a half hour's study of this book will easily impart. To all such, then, it is invaluable.

