Science is an immense gainer by words which thus say singly, what whole sentences might with
difficulty have succeeded in saying. Thus 'isothermal' is quite a modern invention; but how
much is summed up by the word; what a long story is saved, as often as we speak of 'isothermal'
lines. Physiologists have given the name of 'atavism' to the emerging again of a face in a
family after its disappearance during two or three generations. What would have else needed
a sentence is here accomplished by a word. Lord Bacon somewhere describes a certain candidate
for the Chair of St. Peter as being 'papable.' There met, that is, in him all the conditions,
and they were many, which would admit the choice of the Conclave falling upon him. When Bacon
wrote, one to be 'papable' must have been born in lawful wedlock; must have no children nor
grandchildren living; must not have a kinsman already in the Conclave; must be already a Cardinal;
all which facts this single word sums up. When Aristotle, in the opening sentences of his Rhetoric,
declares that rhetoric and logic are antistrophic,' what a wonderful insight into both, and
above all into their relations to one another, does the word impart to those who have any such
special training as enables them to take in all which hereby he intends. Or take a word so
familiar as 'circle,' and imagine how it would fare with us, if, as often as in some long and
difficult mathematical problem we needed to refer to this figure, we were obliged to introduce
its entire definition, no single word representing it; and not this only, but the definition
of each term employed in the definition;--how well nigh impossible it would prove to carry
the whole process in the mind, or to take oversight of all its steps. Imagine a few more words
struck out of the vocabulary of the mathematician, and if all activity and advance in his proper
domain was not altogether arrested, yet would it be as effectually restrained and hampered
as commercial intercourse would be, if in all its transactions iron or copper were the sole
medium of exchange. Wherever any science is progressive, there will be progress in its nomenclature
as well. Words will keep pace with things, and with more or less felicity resuming in themselves
the labours of the past, will at once assist and abridge the labours of the future; like tools
which, themselves the result of the finest mechanical skill, do at the same time render other
and further triumphs of art possible, oftentimes such as would prove quite unattainable without
them. [Footnote: See Mill, System of Logic, iv. 6, 3.]

It is not merely the widening of men's intellectual horizon, which, bringing new thoughts within
the range of their vision, compels the origination of corresponding words; but as often as
regions of this outward world hitherto closed are laid open, the novel objects of interest
which these contain will demand to find their names, and not merely to be catalogued in the
nomenclature of science, but, so far as they present themselves to the popular eye, will require
to be popularly named. When a new thing, a plant, or fruit, or animal, or whatever else it
may be, is imported from some foreign land, or so comes within the sphere of knowledge that
it needs to be thus named, there are various ways by which this may be done. The first and
commonest way is to import the name and the thing together, incorporating the former, unchanged,
or with slight modification, into the language. Thus we did with the potato, which is only
another form of 'batata,' in which shape the original Indian word appears in our earlier voyagers.
But this is not the only way of naming; and the example on which I have just lighted affords
good illustration of various other methods which may be adopted. Thus a name belonging to something
else, which the new object nearly resembles, may be transferred to it, and the confusion arising
from calling different things by the same name disregarded. It was thus in German, 'kartoffel'
being only a corruption, which found place in the last century, of 'tartuffel' from the Italian
'tartiiffolo'(Florio), properly the name of the truffle; but which not the less was transferred
to the potato, on the ground of the many resemblances between them. [Footnote: [See Kluge,
Etym. Dict. (s. v. Kartoffel).]] Or again this same transfer may take place, but with some
qualifying or distinguishing addition. Thus in Italy also men called the potato 'tartufo,'
but added 'bianco,' the white truffle; a name now giving way to 'patata.' Thus was it, too,
with the French; who called it apple, but 'apple of the earth'; even as in many of the provincial
dialects of Germany it bears the name of 'erdapfel' or earth-apple to this day.

It will sometimes happen that a language, having thus to provide a new name for a new thing,
will seem for a season not to have made up its mind by which of these methods it shall do it.
Two names will exist side by side, and only after a time will one gain the upper hand of the
other. Thus when the pineapple was introduced into England, it brought with it the name of
'ananas' erroneously 'anana' under which last form it is celebrated by Thomson in his Seasons.
[Footnote: [The word ananas is from a native Peruvian name nanas. The pineapple was first seen
by Europeans in Peru; see the New English Dictionary (s. v.).]] This name has been nearly or
quite superseded by 'pineapple' manifestly suggested by the likeness of the new fruit to the
cone of the pine. It is not a very happy formation; for it is not likeness, but identity, which
'pineapple' suggests, and it gives some excuse to an error, which up to a very late day ran
through all German-English and French-English dictionaries; I know not whether even now it
has disappeared. In all of these 'pineapple' is rendered as though it signified not the anana,
but this cone of the pine; and not very long ago, the Journal des Debats made some uncomplimentary
observations on the voracity of the English, who could wind up a Lord Mayor's banquet with
fir-cones for dessert.

Sometimes the name adopted will be one drawn from an intermediate language, through which we
first became acquainted with the object requiring to be named. 'Alligator' is an example of
this. When that ugly crocodile of the New World was first seen by the Spanish discoverers,
they called it, with a true insight into its species, 'el lagarto,' the lizard, as being the
largest of that lizard species to which it belonged, or sometimes 'el lagarto de las Indias,'
the Indian lizard. In Sir Walter Raleigh's Discovery of Guiana the word still retains its Spanish
form. Sailing up the Orinoco, 'we saw in it,' he says, 'divers sorts of strange fishes of marvellous
bigness, but for lagartos it exceeded; for there were thousands of these ugly serpents, and
the people call it, for the abundance of them, the river of lagartos, in their language.' We
can explain the shape which with us the word gradually assumed, by supposing that English sailors
who brought it home, and had continually heard, but may have never seen it written, blended,
as in similar instances has often happened, the Spanish article 'el' with the name. In Ben
Jonson's 'alligarta,' we note the word in process of transformation. [Footnote: 'Alcoran' supplies
another example of this curious annexation of the article. Examples of a like absorption or
incorporation of it are to be found in many languages; in our own, when we write 'a newt,'
and not an ewt, or when our fathers wrote 'a nydiot' (Sir T. More), and not an idiot; in the
Italian, which has 'lonza' for onza; but they are still more numerous in French. Thus 'lierre,'
ivy, was written by Ronsard, 'l'hierre,' which is correct, being the Latin 'hedera.' 'Lingot'
is our 'ingot,' but with fusion of the article; in 'larigot' and 'loriot' the word and the
article have in the same manner grown together. In old French it was l'endemain,' or, le jour
en demain: 'le lendemain,' as now written, is a barbarous excess of expression. 'La Pouille,'
a name given to the southern extremity of Italy, and in which we recognize 'Apulia,' is another
variety of error, but moving in the same sphere (Genin, Recreations Philologiques, vol. i.
pp. 102-105); of the same variety is 'La Natolie,' which was written 'L'Anatolie' once. An
Irish scholar has observed that in modern Irish 'an' (='the') is frequently thus absorbed in
the names of places, as in 'Nenagh, 'Naul'; while sometimes an error exactly the reverse of
this is committed, and a letter supposed to be the article, but in fact a part of the word,
dropt: thus 'Oughaval,' instead of 'Noughhaval' or New Habitation. [See Joyce, Irish Local Names.]]

Less honourable causes than some which I have mentioned, give birth to new words; which will
sometimes reflect back a very fearful light on the moral condition of that epoch in which first
they saw the light. Of the Roman emperor, Tiberius, one of those 'inventors of evil things,'
of whom St. Paul speaks (Rom. i. 30), Tacitus informs us that under his hateful dominion words,
unknown before, emerged in the Latin tongue, for the setting out of wickednesses, happily also
previously unknown, which he had invented. It was the same frightful time which gave birth
to 'delator,' alike to the thing and to the word.

The atrocious attempt of Lewis XIV. to convert the Protestants in his dominions to the Roman
Catholic faith by quartering dragoons upon them, with license to misuse to the uttermost those
who refused to conform, this 'booted mission' (mission bottee), as it was facetiously called
at the time, has bequeathed 'dragonnade' to the French language. 'Refugee' had at the same
time its rise, and owed it to the same event. They were called 'refugies' or 'refugees' who
took refuge in some land less inhospitable than their own, so as to escape the tender mercies
of these missionaries. 'Convertisseur' belongs to the same period. The spiritual factor was
so named who undertook to convert the Protestants on a large scale, receiving so much a head
for the converts whom he made.

Our present use of 'roue' throws light on another curious and shameful page of French history.
The 'roue,' by which word now is meant a man of profligate character and conduct, is properly
and primarily one broken on the wheel. Its present and secondary meaning it derived from that
Duke of Orleans who was Regent of France after the death of Lewis XIV. It was his miserable
ambition to gather round him companions worse, if possible, and wickeder than himself. These,
as the Duke of St. Simon assures us, he was wont to call his 'roues'; every one of them abundantly
deserving to be broken on the wheel,--which was the punishment then reserved in France for
the worst malefactors. [Footnote: The 'roues' themselves declared that the word expressed rather
their readiness to give any proof of their affection, even to the being broken upon the wheel,
to their protector and friend.] When we have learned the pedigree of the word, the man and
the age rise up before us, glorying in their shame, and not caring to pay to virtue even that
hypocritical homage which vice finds it sometimes convenient to render.

The great French Revolution made, as might be expected, characteristic contributions to the
French language. It gives us some insight into its ugliest side to know that, among other words,
it produced the following: 'guillotine,' 'incivisme,' 'lanterner,' 'noyade,' 'sansculotte,'
'terrorisme.' Still later, the French conquests in North Africa, and the pitiless severities
with which every attempt at resistance on the part of the free tribes of the interior was put
down and punished, have left their mark on it as well; 'razzia' which is properly an Arabic
word, having been added to it, to express the swift and sudden sweeping away of a tribe, with
its herds, its crops, and all that belongs to it. The Communist insurrection of 1871 bequeathed
one contribution almost as hideous as itself, namely 'petroleuse,' to the language. It is quite
recently that we have made any acquaintance with 'recidivist'--one, that is, who falls back
once more on criminal courses.

But it would ill become us to look only abroad for examples in this kind, when perhaps an equal
abundance might be found much nearer home. Words of our own keep record of passages in our
history in which we have little reason to glory. Thus 'mob' and 'sham' had their birth in that
most disgraceful period of English history, the interval between the Restoration and the Revolution.
'I may note,' says one writing towards the end of the reign of Charles II., 'that the rabble
first changed their title, and were called "the mob" in the assemblies of this [The Green Ribbon]
Club. It was their beast of burden, and called first "mobile vulgus," but fell naturally into
the contraction of one syllable, and ever since is become proper English.' [Footnote: North,
Examen, p. 574; for the origin of 'sham' see p. 231. Compare Swift in The Tatler, No. ccxxx.
'I have done the utmost,' he there says, 'for some years past to stop the progress of "mob"
and "banter"; but have been plainly borne down by numbers, and betrayed by those who promised
to assist me.'] At a much later date a writer in The Spectator speaks of 'mob' as still only
struggling into existence. 'I dare not answer,' he says, 'that mob, rap, pos, incog., and the
like, will not in time be looked at as part of our tongue.' In regard of 'mob,' the mobile
multitude, swayed hither and thither by each gust of passion or caprice, this, which The Spectator
hardly expected, while he confessed it possible, has actually come to pass. 'It is one of the
many words formerly slang, which are now used by our best writers, and received, like pardoned
outlaws, into the body of respectable citizens.' Again, though the murdering of poor helpless
lodgers, afterwards to sell their bodies for dissection, can only be regarded as the monstrous
wickedness of one or two, yet the verb 'to burke,' drawn from the name of a wretch who long
pursued this hideous traffic, will be evidence in all after times, unless indeed its origin
should be forgotten, to how strange a crime this age of ours could give birth. Nor less must
it be acknowledged that 'to ratten' is no pleasant acquisition which the language within the
last few years has made; and as little 'to boycott,' which is of still later birth. Thus Aristophanes
coined [Greek: mellonikiao], to loiter like Nicias, with allusion to the delays by whose aid
this prudent commander sought to put off the disastrous Sicilian expedition, with other words
not a few, familiar to every scholar. The humour will sometimes consist in their enormous length,
[Footnote: As in the [Greek: amphiptolemopedesistratos] of Eupolis; the [Greek: spermagoraiolekitholachanopolis]
of Aristophanes. Plautus, with his exuberant wit, and exulting in his mastery of the Latin
language, is rich in these, 'fustitudinus,' 'ferricrepinus' and the like; will put together
four or five lines consisting wholly of comic combinations thrown off for the occasion. [Footnote:
Persa, iv. 6, 20-23.] Of the same character is Chaucer's 'octogamy,' or eighth marriage; Butler's
'cynarctomachy,' or battle of a dog and bear; Southey's 'matriarch,' for by this name he calls
the wife of the Patriarch Job; but Southey's fun in this line of things is commonly poor enough;
his want of finer scholarship making itself felt here. What humour for example can any one
find in 'philofelist' or lover of cats? Fuller, when he used 'to avunculize,' meaning to tread
in the footsteps of one's uncle, scarcely proposed it as a lasting addition to the language;
as little did Pope intend more than a very brief existence for 'vaticide,' or Cowper for 'extra-
foraneous,' or Carlyle for 'gigmanity,' for 'tolpatchery,' or the like.

Such are some of the sources of increase in the wealth of a language; some of the quarters
from which its vocabulary is augmented. There have been, from time to time, those who have
so little understood what a language is, and what are the laws which it obeys, that they have
sought by arbitrary decrees of their own to arrest its growth, have pronounced that it has
reached the limits of its growth, and must not henceforward presume to develop itself further.
Even Bentley with all his vigorous insight into things is here at fault. 'It were no difficult
contrivance,' he says, 'if the public had any regard to it, to make the English tongue immutable,
unless hereafter some foreign nation shall invade and overrun us.' [Footnote: Works, vol. II.
p. 13.] But a language has a life, as truly as a man, or as a tree. As a man, it must grow
to its full stature; unless indeed its life is prematurely abridged by violence from without;
even as it is also submitted to his conditions of decay. As a forest tree, it will defy any
feeble bands which should attempt to control its expansion, so long as the principle of growth
is in it; as a tree too it will continually, while it casts off some leaves, be putting forth
others. And thus all such attempts to arrest have utterly failed, even when made under conditions
the most favourable for success. The French Academy, numbering all or nearly all the most distinguished
writers of France, once sought to exercise such a domination over their own language, and might
have hoped to succeed, if success had been possible for any. But the language heeded their
decrees as little as the advancing tide heeded those of Canute. Could they hope to keep out
of men's speech, or even out of their books, however they excluded from their own Dictionary,
such words as 'blague,' 'blaguer,' 'blagueur,' because, being born of the people, they had
the people's mark upon them? After fruitless resistance for a time, they have in cases innumerable
been compelled to give way--though in favour of the words just cited they have not yielded
yet--and in each successive edition of their Dictionary have thrown open its doors to words
which had established themselves in the language, and would hold their ground there, altogether
indifferent whether they received the Academy's seal of allowance or not. [Footnote: Nisard
(Curiosites de l'Etym. Franc. p. 195) has an article on these words, where with the epigrammatic
neatness which distinguishes French prose, he says, Je regrette que l'Academie repousse de
son Dictionnaire les mots blague, blagueur, laissant gronder a sa porte ces fils effrontes
du peuple, qui finiront par l'enfoncer. On this futility of struggling against popular usage
in language Montaigne has said, 'They that will fight custom with grammar are fools'; and,
we may add, not less fools, as engaged in as hopeless a conflict, they that will fight it with
dictionary.]

Littre, the French scholar who single-handed has given to the world a far better Dictionary
than that on which the Academy had bestowed the collective labour of more than two hundred
years, shows a much juster estimate of the actual facts of language. If ever there was a word
born in the streets, and bearing about it tokens of the place of its birth, it is 'gamin';
moreover it cannot be traced farther back than the year 1835; when first it appeared in a book,
though it may have lived some while before on the lips of the people. All this did not hinder
his finding room for it in the pages of his Dictionary. He did the same for 'flaneur,' and
for 'rococo,' and for many more, bearing similar marks of a popular origin. [Footnote: A work
by Darmesteter, De la Creation actuelle de Mots nouveaux dans la Langue Francaise, Paris, 1877,
is well worth consulting here.] And with good right; for though fashions may descend from the
upper classes to the lower, words, such I mean as constitute real additions to the wealth of
a language, ascend from the lower to the higher; and of these not a few, let fastidious scholars
oppose or ignore them for a while as they may, will assert a place for themselves therein,
from which they will not be driven by the protests of all the scholars and all the academicians
in the world. The world is ever moving, and language has no choice but to move with it. [Footnote:
One has well said, 'The subject of language, the instrument, but also the restraint, of thought,
is endless. The history of language, the mouth speaking from the fulness of the heart, is the
history of human action, faith, art, policy, government, virtue, and crime. When society progresses,
the language of the people necessarily runs even with the line of society. You cannot unite
past and present, still less can you bring back the past; moreover, the law of progress is
the law of storms, it is impossible to inscribe an immutable statute of language on the periphery
of a vortex, whirling as it advances. Every political development induces a concurrent alteration
or expansion in conversation and composition. New principles are generated, new authorities
introduced; new terms for the purpose of explaining or concealing the conduct of public men
must be created: new responsibilities arise. The evolution of new ideas renders the change
as easy as it is irresistible, being a natural change indeed, like our own voice under varying
emotions or in different periods of life: the boy cannot speak like the baby, nor the man like
the boy, the wooer speaks otherwise than the husband, and every alteration in circumstances,
fortune or misfortune, health or sickness, prosperity or adversity, produces some corresponding
change of speech or inflection of tone.']

Those who make attempts to close the door against all new comers are strangely forgetful of
the steps whereby that vocabulary of the language, with which they are so entirely satisfied
that they resent every endeavour to enlarge it, had itself been gotten together--namely by
that very process which they are now seeking by an arbitrary decree to arrest. We so take for
granted that words with which we have been always familiar, whose right to a place in the language
no one dreams now of challenging or disputing, have always formed part of it, that it is oftentimes
a surprise to discover of how very late introduction many of these actually are; what an amount,
it may be, of remonstrance and resistance some of them encountered at the first. To take two
or three Latin examples: Cicero, in employing 'favor,' a word soon after used by everybody,
does it with an apology, evidently feels that he is introducing a questionable novelty, being
probably first applied to applause in the theatre; 'urbanus,' too, in our sense of urbane,
had in his time only just come up; 'obsequium' he believes Terence to have been the first to
employ. [Footnote: On the new words in classical Latin, see Quintilian, Inst. viii. 3. 30-37.]
'Soliloquium' seems to us so natural, indeed so necessary, a word, this 'soliloquy,' or talking
of a man with himself alone, something which would so inevitably demand and obtain its adequate
expression, that we learn with surprise that no one spoke of a 'soliloquy' before Augustine;
the word having been coined, as he distinctly informs us, by himself. [Footnote: Solil. 2. 7.]

Where a word has proved an unquestionable gain, it is interesting to watch it as it first emerges,
timid, and doubtful of the reception it will meet with; and the interest is much enhanced if
it has thus come forth on some memorable occasion, or from some memorable man. Both these interests
meet in the word 'essay.' Were we asked what is the most remarkable volume of essays which
the world has seen, few, capable of replying, would fail to answer, Lord Bacon's. But they
were also the first collection of these, which bore that name; for we gather from the following
passage in the (intended) dedication of the volume to Prince Henry, that 'essay' was itself
a recent word in the language, and, in the use to which he put it, perfectly novel: he says--'To
write just treatises requireth leisure in the writer, and leisure in the reader; ... which
is the cause which hath made me choose to write certain brief notes set down rather significantly
than curiously, which I have called Essays. The word is late, but the thing is ancient.' From
this dedication we gather that, little as 'essays' now can be considered a word of modesty,
deprecating too large expectations on the part of the reader, it had, as 'sketches' perhaps
would have now, as 'commentary' had in the Latin, that intention in its earliest use. In this
deprecation of higher pretensions it resembled the 'philosopher' of Pythagoras. Others had
styled themselves, or had been willing to be styled, 'wise men.' 'Lover of wisdom' a name at
once so modest arid so beautiful, was of his devising. [Footnote: Diogenes Laertius, Prooem.
Section 12.] But while thus some words surprise us that they are so new, others surprise us
that they are so old. Few, I should imagine, are aware that 'rationalist,' and this in a theological,
and not merely a philosophical sense, is of such early date as it is; or that we have not imported
quite in these later times both the name and the thing from Germany. Yet this is very far from
the case. There were 'rationalists' in the time of the Commonwealth; and these challenging
the name exactly on the same grounds as those who in later times have claimed it for their
own. 'Christology' has been lately characterized as a monstrous importation from Germany. I
am quite of the remonstrant's mind that English theology does not need, and can do excellently
well without it; yet this novelty it is not; for in the Preface to the works of that illustrious
Arminian divine of the seventeenth century, Thomas Jackson, written by Benjamin Oley, his friend
and pupil, the following passage occurs: 'The reader will find in this author an eminent excellence
in that part of divinity which I make bold to call Christology, in displaying the great mystery
of godliness, God the Son manifested in human flesh.' [Footnote: Preface to Dr. Jackson's Works,
vol. i. p. xxvii. A work of Fleming's, published in 1700, bears the title, Christology.] In
their power of taking up foreign words into healthy circulation and making them truly their
own, languages differ much from one another, and the same language from itself at different
periods of its life. There are languages of which the appetite and digestive power, the assimilative
energy, is at some periods almost unlimited. Nothing is too hard for them; everything turns
to good with them; they will shape and mould to their own uses and habits almost any material
offered to them. This, however, is in their youth; as age advances, the assimilative energy
diminishes. Words are still adopted; for this process of adoption can never wholly cease; but
a chemical amalgamation of the new with the old does not any longer find place; or only in
some instances, and very partially even in them. The new comers lie upon the surface of the
language; their sharp corners are not worn or rounded off; they remain foreign still in their
aspect and outline, and, having missed their opportunity of becoming otherwise, will remain
so to the end. Those who adopt, as with an inward misgiving about their own gift and power
of stamping them afresh, make a conscience of keeping them in exactly the same form in which
they have received them; instead of conforming them to the laws of that new community into
which they are now received. Nothing will illustrate this so well as a comparison of different
words of the same family, which have at different periods been introduced into our language.
We shall find that those of an earlier introduction have become English through and through,
while the later introduced, belonging to the same group, have been very far from undergoing
the same transforming process. Thus 'bishop' [A.S. biscop], a word as old as the introduction
of Christianity into England, though derived from 'episcopus,' is thoroughly English; while
'episcopal,' which has supplanted 'bishoply,' is only a Latin word in an English dress. 'Alms,'
too, is thoroughly English, and English which has descended to us from far; the very shape
in which we have the word, one syllable for 'eleemosyna' of six, sufficiently testifying this;
'letters,' as Horne Tooke observes,' like soldiers, being apt to desert and drop off in a long
march.' The seven-syllabled and awkward 'eleemosynary' is of far more recent date. Or sometimes
this comparison is still more striking, when it is not merely words of the same family, but
the very same word which has been twice adopted, at an earlier period and a later--the earlier
form will be thoroughly English, as 'palsy'; the later will be only a Greek or Latin word spelt
with English letters, as 'paralysis.' 'Dropsy,' 'quinsy,' 'megrim,' 'squirrel,' 'rickets,'
'surgeon,' 'tansy,' 'dittany,' 'daffodil,' and many more words that one might name, have nothing
of strangers or foreigners about them, have made themselves quite at home in English. So entirely
is their physiognomy native, that it would be difficult even to suspect them to be of Greek
descent, as they all are. Nor has 'kickshaws' anything about it now which would compel us at
once to recognize in it the French 'quelques choses' [Footnote: 'These cooks have persuaded
us their coarse fare is the best, and all other but what they dress to be mere quelques choses,
made dishes of no nourishing' (Whitlock, Zootomia, p. 147).]--'French kickshose,' as with allusion
to the quarter from which it came, and while the memory of that was yet fresh in men's minds,
it was often called by our early writers. A very notable fact about new words, and a very signal
testimony of their popular origin, of their birth from the bosom of the people, is the difficulty
so often found in tracing their pedigree. When the causae vocum are sought, as they very fitly
are, and out of much better than mere curiosity, for the causae rerum are very often wrapt
up in them, those continually elude our research. Nor does it fare thus merely with words to
which attention was called, and interest about their etymology awakened, only after they had
been long in popular use--for that such should often give scope to idle guesses, should altogether
refuse to give up their secret, is nothing strange--but words will not seldom perplex and baffle
the inquirer even where an investigation of their origin has been undertaken almost as soon
as they have come into existence. Their rise is mysterious; like almost all acts of becoming,
it veils itself in deepest obscurity. They emerge, they are in everybody's mouth; but when
it is inquired from whence they are, nobody can tell. They are but of yesterday, and yet with
inexplicable rapidity they have already lost all traces of the precise circumstances under
which they were born.

The rapidity with which this comes to pass is nowhere more striking than in the names of political
or religious parties, and above all in names of slight or of contempt. Thus Baxter tells us
that when he wrote there already existed two explanations of 'Roundhead,' [Footnote: Narrative
of my Life and Times, p. 34; 'The original of which name is not certainly known. Some say it
was because the Puritans then commonly wore short hair, and the King's party long hair; some
say, it was because the Queen at Stafford's trial asked who that round-headed man was, meaning
Mr. Pym, because he spake so strongly.'] a word not nearly so old as himself. How much has
been written about the origin of the German 'ketzer' (= our 'heretic'), though there can scarcely
be a doubt that the Cathari make their presence felt in this word. [Footnote: See on this word
Kluge's Etym. Dict.] Hardly less has been disputed about the French 'cagot.' [Footnote: The
word meant in old times 'a leper'; see Cotgrave's Dictionary, also Athenceum, No. 2726.] Is
'Lollard,' or 'Loller' as we read it in Chaucer, from 'lollen,' to chaunt? that is, does it
mean the chaunting or canting people? or had the Lollards their title from a principal person
among them of this name, who suffered at the stake?--to say nothing of 'lolium,' found by some
in the name, these men being as tares among the wholesome wheat. [Footnote: Hahn, Ketzer im
Mittelalter vol. ii. p. 534.] The origin of 'Huguenot' as applied to the French Protestants,
was already a matter of doubt and discussion in the lifetime of those who first bore it. A
distinguished German scholar has lately enumerated fifteen explanations which have been offered
of the word. [Footnote: Mahn, Etymol. Untersuch. p. 92. Littre, who has found the word in use
as a Christian name two centuries before the Reformation, has no doubt that here is the explanation
of it. At any rate there is here what explodes a large number of the proposed explanations,
as for instance that Huguenot is another and popular shape of 'Eidgenossen.'] [How did the
lay sisters in the Low Countries, the 'Beguines' get their name? Many derivations have been
suggested, but the most probable account is that given in Ducange, that the appellative was
derived from 'le Begue' the Stammerer, the nickname of Lambert, a priest of Liege in the twelfth
century, the founder of the order. (See the document quoted in Ducange, and the 'New English
Dictionary' (s. v.).)] Were the 'Waldenses' so called from one Waldus, to whom these 'Poor
Men of Lyons' as they were at first called, owed their origin? [Footnote: [It is not doubted
now that the Waldenses got their name from Peter Waldez or Valdo, a native of Lyons in the
twelfth century. Waldez was a rich merchant who sold his goods and devoted his wealth to furthering
translations of the Bible, and to the support of a set of poor preachers. For an interesting
account of the Waldenses see in the Guardian, Aug. 18, 1886, a learned review by W. A. B. C.
of Histoire Litteraire des Vaudois, par E. Montet.]] As little can any one tell us with any
certainty why the 'Paulicians' and the 'Paterines' were severally named as they are; or, to
go much further back, why the 'Essenes' were so called. [Footnote: Lightfoot, On the Colossians,
p. 114 sqq.] From whence had Johannes Scotus, who anticipated so much of the profoundest thinking
of later times, his title of 'Erigena,' and did that title mean Irish-born, or what? [Footnote:
[There is no doubt whatever that Erigena in this case means 'Irish-born.']] 'Prester John'
was a name given in the Middle Ages to a priest-king, real or imaginary, of wide dominion in
Central Asia. But whether there was ever actually such a person, and what was intended by his
name, is all involved in the deepest obscurity. How perplexing are many of the Church's most
familiar terms, and terms the oftenest in the mouth of her children; thus her 'Ember' days;
her 'Collects'; [Footnote: Freeman, Principles of Divine Service, vol. i. p. 145.