HISTORIC RELIQUES; a Series of Representations of ARMS, JEWELLERY, GOLD and SILVER PLATE, FURNITURE,
ARMOUR, &c. in Royal and Noble Collections, Colleges, and Public Institutions, &c., and which
formerly belonged to Individuals Eminent in History, drawn from the originals and etched by
JOSEPH LIONEL WILLIAMS.

Relics of antiquity, in themselves most interesting and instructive, become doubly so when
they have belonged to individuals whose deeds are chronicled in history. Who is there, "to
dell forgetfulness a prey," who does not look with intense interest on objects connected with
the "mighty victor, mighty lord," Edward the Third, the Black Prince, Henry VIII., the imperious
Elizabeth, the ill-fated Mary of Scotland, or the unhappy Charles I.? Not only of kings, but
of their favourites, and of the illustrious men who have shed lustre on the various epochs
of history, are the relics most instructive and important.

The aim of the present publication is to illustrate, by a series of original Drawings, the
various relics which have historical interest, such as Armour, Dresses, Jewellery, Gold and
Silver Plate, Furniture, &c. formerly belonging to persons celebrated in history, and which
are still treasured up in her Majesty's collections, in the museums of the nobility and gentry,
in colleges, halls, and public museums, &c.

Some few of the relics of the past, having historical associations connected with them, have
been represented in archæological works; but it is necessary to search through many volumes
to find even a limited number of them, and the present work would embrace a great variety hitherto
unrepresented; at the same time, its peculiar feature, that every subject would be Historical,
renders it a book of great novelty and importance. To the Historian and Antiquary the proposed
series of Illustrations recommends itself by its character and importance; to the lover of
ancient Art, for the beauty of most of the objects represented; and its claims on the general
reader are the connexion of the Relics with the dead whose actions are the theme of history
and romance. To the Artist these Illustrations will be of essential importance; and to the
Manufacturer of scarcely less value, as the Relics themselves are, in most cases, either of
exquisite beauty of form or striking and characteristic style, and by furnishing data, will
enable him to carry out designs in the style peculiar to all periods.

It is proposed to publish the Work in Monthly Parts, containing three Etchings drawn with the
most scrupulous fidelity, and illustrative Vignettes beautifully engraved on Wood. The plates
will be coloured, and the size of the Work be imperial 8vo.; a limited number in imperial 4to.;
the subjects fully coloured, and the initial letters also.

The Editor will be greatly obliged by communications respecting Relics of Historic Interest
being forwarded to 198. Strand.

Price 2s. 6d. each Part; to be completed in Ten Parts. Office, 198. 1850.