Well, then, it was not because she was not a thoroughly indoctrinated anti-slavery woman. Her
husband, who did all her thinking for her, had been a man of ideas beyond his day, and never
for a moment countenanced the right of slavery so far as to buy or own a servant or attendant
of any kind; and Mrs. Scudder had always followed decidedly along the path of his opinions
and practice, and never hesitated to declare the reasons for the faith that was in her. But
if any of us could imagine an angel dropped down out of heaven, with wings, ideas, notions,
manners, and customs all fresh from that very different country, we might easily suppose that
the most pious and orthodox family might find the task of presenting him in general society
and piloting him along the courses of this world a very delicate and embarrassing one. However
much they might reverence him on their own private account, their hearts would probably sink
within them at the idea of allowing him to expand himself according to his previous nature
and habits in the great world without. In like manner, men of high, unworldly natures are often
reverenced by those who are somewhat puzzled what to do with them practically.

Mrs. Scudder considered the Doctor as a superior being, possessed by a holy helplessness in
all things material and temporal, which imposed on her the necessity of thinking and caring
for him, and prevising the earthly and material aspects of his affairs.

There was not in Newport a more thriving and reputable business at that time than the slave-trade.
Large fortunes were constantly being turned out in it, and what better Providential witness
of its justice could most people require?

Beside this, in their own little church, she reflected with alarm, that Simeon Brown, the richest
and most liberal supporter of the society, had been, and was then, drawing all his wealth from
this source; and rapidly there flashed before her mind a picture of one and another, influential
persons, who were holders of slaves. Therefore, when the Doctor announced, "I must testify,"
she rattled her tea-spoon uneasily, and answered,--

"In what way, Doctor, do you think of bearing testimony? The subject, I think, is a very difficult
one."

"Difficult? I think no subject can be clearer. If we were right in our war for liberty, we
are wrong in making slaves or keeping them."

"Oh, I did not mean," said Mrs. Scudder, "that it was difficult to understand the subject;
the right of the matter is clear, but what to do is the thing."

"I shall preach about it," said the Doctor; "my mind has run upon it some time. I shall show
to the house of Judah their sin in this matter."

"I fear there will be great offence given," said Mrs. Scudder. "There's Simeon Brown, one of
our largest supporters,--he is in the trade."

"Ah, yes,--but he will come out of it,--of course he will,--he is all right, all clear. I was
delighted with the clearness of his views the other night, and thought then of bringing them
to bear on this point,--only, as others were present, I deferred it. But I can show him that
it follows logically from his principles; I am confident of that."

"I think you'll be disappointed in him, Doctor;--I think he'll be angry, and get up a commotion,
and leave the church."

"Madam," said the Doctor, "do you suppose that a man who would be willing even to give up his
eternal salvation for the greatest good of the universe could hesitate about a few paltry thousands
that perish in the using?"

"He may feel willing to give up his soul," said Mrs. Scudder, naïvely, "but I don't think he'll
give up his ships,--that's quite another matter,--he won't see it to be his duty."

"Then, Ma'am, he'll be a hypocrite, a gross hypocrite, if he won't," said the Doctor. "It is
not Christian charity to think it of him. I shall call upon him this morning and tell him my
intentions."

"But, Doctor," exclaimed Mrs. Scudder, with a start, "pray, think a little more of it. You
know a great many things depend on him. Why! he has subscribed for twenty copies of your 'System
of Theology.' I hope you'll remember that."

"And why should I remember that?" said the Doctor,--hastily turning round, suddenly enkindled,
his blue eyes flashing out of their usual misty calm,--"what has my 'System of Theology' to
do with the matter?"

"Why," said Mrs. Scudder, "it's of more importance to get right views of the gospel before
the world than anything else, is it not?--and if, by any imprudence in treating influential
people, this should be prevented, more harm than good would be done."

"Madam," said the Doctor, "I'd sooner my system should be sunk in the sea than it should be
a millstone round my neck to keep me from my duty. Let God take care of my theology; I must
do my duty."

And as the Doctor spoke, he straightened himself to the full dignity of his height, his face
kindling with an unconscious majesty, and, as he turned, his eye fell on Mary, who was standing
with her slender figure dilated, her large blue eye wide and bright, in a sort of trance of
solemn feeling, half smiles, half tears,--and the strong, heroic man started, to see this answer
to his higher soul in the sweet, tremulous mirror of womanhood. One of those lightning glances
passed between his eyes and hers which are the freemasonry of noble spirits,--and, by a sudden
impulse, they approached each other. He took both her outstretched hands, looked down into
her face with a look full of admiration, and a sort of naïve wonder,--then, as if her inspired
silence had been a voice to him, he laid his hand on her head, and said,--

"God bless you, child!

In a moment he was gone.

"Mary," said Mrs. Scudder, laying her hand on her daughter's arm, "the Doctor loves you!"

"I know he does, mother," said Mary, innocently; "and I love him,--dearly!--he is a noble,
grand man!"

Mrs. Scudder looked keenly at her daughter. Mary's eye was as calm as a June sky, and she began,
composedly, gathering up the teacups.

"She did not understand me," thought the mother.

[To be continued.]

       *       *       *       *       *

REVIEW.

The New Testament. Translated from the Original Greek, etc. By LEICESTER AMBROSE SAWYER. Boston:
John P. Jewett & Co. 1858.

Few books merit the criticism which they receive; fewer receive all they merit. Here is a work,
a translation, which is more likely than most to get its deserts, because its circle of critics
will be unusually large. It purports to be a new and improved version of "the Book of Books,"
and puts forth claims which will be conceded only after it shall have sustained the most extensive,
minute, and even prejudiced scrutiny. The Bible has more readers than any other book; and that
which claims to be an improved Bible must, if it secure anything like a general attention,
meet with criticisms from all quarters. Mr. Sawyer is fortunate in one respect: his work will
be examined and judged by multitudes who never undertook to criticize any other book; he will
have, therefore, ultimately, a popular judgment of his task and its performance. But he is
unfortunate in another point: for he must meet that popular sentiment which at the outset looks
with disfavor upon anything that has even the appearance of meddling with the commonly received
and almost universally approved version of the Holy Scriptures. Let us, in a brief space and
with as little of formal and scholastic criticism as possible, examine Mr. Sawyer's translation.

A work of such a character as this should be judged not more by its absolute or intrinsic merits
than by a comparison of them with the design avowed and the claims advanced by the author.
In a task of such magnitude we ought not to expect to find everything perfect. If the completed
structure have a symmetry of proportions and excellence of finish approaching reasonably near
to the plan proposed, we should not too severely censure minor defects. Critics rarely accord
all that authors claim; the former measure the actual achievement,--the latter look to the
ideal conception; if the one be in a reasonable degree commensurate with the other, we should
be lenient toward the faults of the performance.

With this charitable substratum for our critical structure, let us test Mr. Sawyer's new version
by contrasting it with his own avowed design and the claims with which he introduces his completed
task. In the Preface he says,--

"This is not a work of compromises, or of conjectural interpretations of the Sacred Scriptures,
neither is it a paraphrase, but a strict [strictly] literal rendering. It neither adds nor
takes away; but aims to express the original with the utmost clearness and force, and with
the utmost precision."

This is a somewhat pretentious claim. A strictly literal rendering of any language into another
is by no means always an easy task; and it is especially difficult to couple, as the translator
in this case asserts he has done, the utmost clearness, force, and precision in the expression
of the thought, with minute exactness of version. We are surprised that Mr. Sawyer should have
rested his claim for the excellence and superiority of his translation mainly upon this quality
of literalism, for it is often the case that the closest literalist is the worst translator.
It is often impossible to render the thoughts expressed in the peculiar idioms of one tongue
into exactly corresponding idioms of another. There are idiomatic forms, especially in the
Greek, which have no precisely correspondent forms in the English, and yet these are not unfrequently
the most forcible expressions of any to be found in the original; any attempt to render these
literally must be abortive; and a literal rendering, or as nearly literal as possible, is the
worst translation, because it sacrifices the clearness, force, and precision, to say nothing
of the grace and delicacy, of the original. The French language abounds in words and phrases
the literal translation of which into English perverts the meaning and destroys the force of
the original. Still more is a strictly literal rendering incompatible with the preservation
and transference of the beauties of style and the strength of diction. The widest range of
the thought, its more delicate shades and subtiler connections, often depend in great part
upon the peculiar forms of the language in which they are first clothed; and by a strictly
literal translation the scope of the thought is narrowed, its finer lines obscured, and that
which is of more importance than all else, the fitness of the expression, is altogether lost.
The utmost strictness of literal translation is a poor compensation for the resultant poverty
of language and dilution of thought; and by as much as the original is more impressive in its
rich and fitting garb, by so much the more is it made to appear mean and unlike itself when
forced to clothe itself in scanty second-hand habiliments.

We have said thus much on this point for two reasons: first, because it is on this chiefly
that Mr. Sawyer appeals to the public for a verdict in favor of his translation; and secondly,
because it is a common and popular notion, that, the more literal a translation can be made,
especially in the case of the Bible, the better and more trustworthy it will be. And we are
willing to admit, that, in translating the Holy Scriptures, the greatest degree of strictness
in literal rendering, compatible with the full and correct expression of the thought, is and
should be a first consideration; the translator should take no liberties with the text, by
way either of omission, alteration, or compromise; he must in no way vitiate the thought; and
if he keep within this rule, he will have escaped just criticism, and may claim the merit of
faithfulness to his task. Has Mr. Sawyer, then, in his New Testament, given a strictly literal
rendering? and is it an improvement on the common version? We have space for only a few specimens
of his translation, and we have taken some of the first that attracted our notice; it will
be observed that they are none of them abstruse or disputed passages.

COMMON VERSION.

Matt. ii.

SAWYER'S VERSION.

Chap. ii. verse 4.

"Then Herod seeing that he was despised by the Magi, was exceedingly angry, and sent and destroyed
all the children, in Bethlehem, and in all its borders, from two years old and under, according
to the precise time which he had learned of the Magi."

Here is a comparison of the two translations of a simple narrative text taken at random. The
essential changes (improvements?) made by Mr. Sawyer are in the words which we have Italicized.
Two of these changes, the substitution of "Magi" for "wise men," and of "destroyed" for "slew,"
we shall pass with the single observation, that the rendering of the common version is in both
instances the more accurate and better expressed. Mr. Sawyer substitutes "despised" for "mocked,"
as the translation of [Greek: henepaichthae]. Is this literal? or is it an improvement? The
Greek verb [Greek: hemaiso] has the signification primarily to deride, to mock, to scoff at,
and secondarily to delude, to deceive, to disappoint, but it has not the meaning to despise.
The word mock is used in our language in both these significations,--in the secondary sense
when it refers to men's hopes or expectations,--as, to mock one's hopes, that is, to delude
or disappoint one's expectations. In this sense, and in this alone, it is obviously used in
this passage. The wise men did not scoff at King Herod, but they did delude him; they mocked
his expectation of their return, and went back to their own country without returning to report
to him, because they had been "warned of God in a dream," not because they despised the king.
To say, as Mr. Sawyer does, that they "despised" him, is neither warranted by the meaning of
[Greek: enepaichthae], nor is such a rendering accordant with the facts of the story or the
connections of the thought. It is a forced and far-fetched translation, and a change from the
common version much for the worse. The same word is of frequent occurrence in the Scriptures.
In the Septuagint, Jer. x. 14, it is used in the same sense as in Matt. ii. 16. It is worthy
of note that in no other instance does Mr. Sawyer render it by "despised." In Luke xviii. 32
and xxii. 63, and Matt. xx. 19, he translates it "mocked," like the common version. Mr. Sawyer
should be more consistent, if he would have us put faith in his scholarly pretensions and literal
accuracy. The passage in which he indulges in this variation from his own rule is the one of
all the list where such a translation is particularly fitting, and where neither force, clearness,
nor precision is gained by the substitution.

Mr. Sawyer renders [Greek: katha thov chrinon du haekribose] thus: "according to the precise
time which he had learned."--Is this literal or correct? [Greek: 'Akriboo] signifies to inquire
diligently, assiduously, or accurately, and has no such signification primarily as to learn.
If the reader will now turn to Mr. Sawyer's translation of the 7th verse of the same chapter
of Matthew, he will there find that he translates [Greek: haekribose] "asked"! And yet it stands
in that passage in precisely the same connection of thought as in the 16th verse; so that we
have our translator, who gives us only strictly literal renderings, translating the same word,
occurring in the same relative connection, in the one instance by "asked," and in the other
by "had learned,"--neither of them legitimate translations, and neither precisely expressing
the thought. The rendering "asked" falls as far short of the full and forcible meaning of [Greek:
haekribose], in the one case, as "had learned" varies from its strictly literal signification
in the other.

We will now examine another passage illustrating Mr. Sawyer's consistent fidelity to literal
renderings. He translates the word [Greek: phuchae], Luke xii. 19, 20, and 23, "soul"; thus,
"I will say to my soul," find "Is not the soul more than the food?"--agreeing with the common
version in the first instance, and differing from it in the second. But he renders [Greek:
phuchae] in Mark viii. 36, 37, Luke xvii. 33, and Matt. xvi. 26, "life"; thus, "For what is
a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world and lose his life?" "For whoever wishes to
save his life shall lose it." In these cases he seems to have made his choice between the renderings
"soul" and "life" according to no rule of translation or of criticism in philology, but as
his fancy dictated. How shall we explain these inconsistencies, and, at the same time, grant
Mr. Sawyer his claim to literalness of rendering?

Luke ix. 24, 25, Mr. Sawyer translates [Greek: phuchae] "life," and then renders [Greek: eauthon
de apolesas ae zaemiotheis] "and destroys himself or loses his life." The common version is
"and lose himself or be cast away," which is not only more strictly literal, but far more forcible.
[Greek: 'Apollumi] conveys the strongest idea of total, irremediable ruin; and [Greek: zaemioo],
when used, as in this passage, in the aorist tense, has the signification of bringing loss
or ruin upon one's self. Both these thoughts are lost in Mr. Sawyer's translation; and a more
tame, insufficient, and tautological rendering than his could scarcely be imagined.

Another instance of Mr. Sawyer's singular choice of renderings, in his zeal for improvement,
is found in Luke viii. 46, which he translates, "Some one touched me; for I perceived a power
going from me." The common version, "Somebody touched me; for I perceive that virtue is gone
out of me," is clear and precise; Mr. Sawyer's version, "a power," is more indefinite and less
forcible. Any intelligent reader will at once perceive that the common version is the better,
and that Mr. Sawyer's improved rendering is almost meaningless.

One more example of these strictly literal renderings must suffice, John iii. Sawyer's version,--"Nicodemus
said to him, 'How can a man be born when he is old? can he become an unborn infant of his mother
a second time, and be born?'" The absurdity of the form of language put into the mouth of Nicodemus
by Mr. Sawyer is obvious at a glance; no such thought was ever so expressed by any speaker
in any language; it is wholly forced and unnatural; and upon comparing Mr. Sawyer's translation
with the original, we find that he has paraphrased the passage with a vengeance, altogether
omitting to translate the clause [Greek: eis thaen koilian ... eiselthein kai gennaethaenai],
and interpolating an expression, instead, which is neither in the original text nor in the
thought. Probably Mr. Sawyer's motive for taking this extraordinary liberty was a false delicacy,
amounting to prudery; but it ill assorts with his assertion, that his work is not a paraphrase,
nor one of compromises, or of conjectural interpretations.

We might proceed with numerous illustrations' exhibiting the weakness of Mr. Sawyer's claim
of an improved and strictly literal rendering, but these are enough. Before he claims much
on the score of scholarly accuracy or critical rendering, he must explain these inconsistencies
and remove these blemishes. But if such faults are patent in the simplest narrative passages,
what confidence can we place in Mr. Sawyer as a translator of difficult, abstruse, doctrinal,
and disputed texts? In every instance in which we have tested his translation of the original,
the changes which he has made from the common version not only, in our judgment, are no improvements,
but positively render the expression less clear, less forcible, and less precise; of course,
as the language is made worse, the thought is, in the same proportion, obscured.

Another peculiarity of Mr. Sawyer's translation, which we suppose he claims as an improvement,
does not meet our approval. In all cases where there is no word in our language which expresses
the signification of the Greek, as in the names of weights and measures, Mr. Sawyer substitutes
for the language of the common version the foreign word of the original,--sometimes merely
giving the orthography of the Greek in English letters, sometimes affixing a termination,--and
frequently he adds, in brackets, an explanation of his rendering. As examples of this, we quote
the following:--

"Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a modius [1.916 gallon measure]."

"I tell you that you shall not go out thence till you have paid even the last lepton [2 mills]."

"It is like leaven which a woman took and hid in three sata [33 quarts] of flour."

"And there were six stone water-jars there, placed for the purification of the Jews, containing
two or three metretes [16.75 or 25.125 gallons] each."

"And he desired to fill his stomach with the carob pods which the swine eat."

"And one poor widow came and cast in two lepta, which is a quadrans [4 mills]."

It requires no knowledge of the original to pass judgment on such changes as are here made
from the common version. The practice which Mr. Sawyer here introduces and sanctions is a vicious
one in any translation, and is especially so in the case of the Holy Scriptures, which are
to be read by the unlearned and ignorant as well as by the scholar and the critic. Mr. Sawyer's
translation of such words as we have noted above conveys no idea to the mind of the common
reader, and requires a glossary to make it intelligible. There is in his choice of words a
pedantry and affectation of learning that are in bad taste. But in this, as in his other strictly
literal renderings, he is inconsistent, and does not adhere to his own rule. He translates
Matt. vi. 30,--"And if God so clothes the grass of the field, which to-day is, and tomorrow
is cast into the oven," etc. If he were consistent in his practice, he would have rendered
the word "oven" klibanon, and then, in parenthesis, explained that it signifies "a large round
pot, of earthen or other material, two or three feet high, narrowing towards the top, on the
sides of which the dough was spread to be baked in thin cakes." Probably Mr. Sawyer was deterred
from following his rule in this case by the formidableness of the necessary parenthesis; but
there is as much reason why he should have written klibanon instead of "oven," as there is
for substituting lepton for "farthing," or modius for "bushel," or carob pods for "husks,"--and
in fact more reason, because the word "oven," which he indorses and uses, conveys a far more
imperfect idea of the original, [Greek: klibanon], than those words of the common version which
he has rejected do of their originals. All such changes as those instanced above, in our judgment,
mar the simplicity and obscure the meaning of the passages where they occur.

But we will now notice what appears to us a more serious defect than any of those already mentioned.
Mr. Sawyer throughout his translation substitutes vulgar Latinisms and circumlocutions for
the vigorous phrases of the received version. Sometimes this is done at the expense of homely
Saxon words which are the very sinews of our language; and wherever such words are sacrificed
for Latinisms, the beauty and force of the whole are impaired or destroyed. Again, the translator
seems to have a peculiar antipathy to everything like poetical expressions or the euphonious
arrangement of sentences. He has evidently fallen into the error of supposing that the most
prosaic rendering is necessarily the most exact; whereas the fact is, that the most poetical
form of expression of which a passage is susceptible is often the most clear, forcible, and
precise. The best method of giving the reader an idea of the justice of this portion of our
criticism of Mr. Sawyer's version is to quote some passages in contrast with the common version.

COMMON VERSION.

"If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles."

"God be merciful to me a sinner."

"Give us this day our daily bread."

"And therefore I cannot come."

"And to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more."

"I give tithes of all that I possess."

"For which of you intending to build a tower sitteth not down first and counteth the cost?"

"And upon this rock I will build my church."

"If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him."

"And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still."

"As we were driven up and down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near
to some country."

"Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin."

SAWYER'S VERSION.

"If you please, we will make here three tabernacles."

"When therefore they had breakfasted, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you
love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I am a friend to you."

"God, be propitious to me a sinner."

"Give us to-day our essential bread."

"On this account I cannot come."

"And of him with whom men have deposited much, they will ask more."

"I tithe all I acquire."

"For what man of you wishing to build a tower, does not first sit down and estimate the expense?"

"And upon this rock will I build my assembly."

"If your brother sins, reprove him; and if he changes his mind, forgive him."

"And coming to the house, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying, Congratulate
me; for I have found my sheep that was lost."

"And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said to the lake, Hush! Be still!"

"When we were borne along in the Adriatic, at about midnight the sailors suspected that some
land was approaching them."

"Enter in through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate, and spacious the way which leads to
destruction, and many are they that enter in by it; for narrow is the gate, and compressed
the way which leads to life, and few are those who find it."

"Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they perform no hard labor, neither do they
spin."

These must suffice. We cannot extend our quotations, nor is there occasion to do so. We think
we have seen enough of Mr. Sawyer's use of words and phrases, enough of his improvements on
the common version of the Bible, to convince any candid mind that his is neither a literal
nor a correct translation; that so far from having improved the version, by adding clearness,
force, or precision, he has injured it in each of these respects; and that the world would
be immensely the loser by accepting him as a substitute for the forty-seven translators who
composed the famous Council of King James in 1611. We are informed that Mr. Sawyer has completed
his improved version of the Old Testament, and will soon publish it. We almost shudder in anticipation
of the sounds which he has probably evoked from the harp of Judah's minstrel king, of the colors
which he has put on the canvas where are painted the glowing visions of Isaiah, and of the
rude matter-of-fact method in which he has doubtless used the modern telescope to penetrate
and scatter the glorious and solemn mysteries of the cloud-land of prophecy out of which spake
the God of Daniel. But we forbear, and must wait till we have the remainder of this magnum
opus before we venture to hazard an opinion of its merits.

       *       *       *       *       *

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS. By Augusta Moore. New York. Derby & Jackson. 12mo. $1.00.

History of New England during the Stuart Dynasty. Vol. 1. By John Gorham Palfrey. Boston. Little,
Brown, & Co. 8vo. $2.25. Maps, Engravings, etc. 2 vols. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. $3.50.

The Poetical Works of James Montgomery. 5 vols. Boston. Little, Brown, & Co. 16mo. $3.75.

English and Scottish Ballads. Collected and edited by Francis James Child. Vols. 5 to 8, inclusive.
Boston. Little, Brown, & Co. 16mo. 75 cts. per vol.

Poetry of the Bells. Collected by Samuel Batchelder, Jr. Riverside Press. Printed in Aid of
the Cambridge Chime. By H.O. Houghton & Co. 16mo. With Illustrations by Billings. Boston. Crosby,
Nichols, & Co. 12mo. 75 cts.

The Great Day of Atonement, or Meditations and Prayers, etc., etc. Translated from the German
of Charlotte Elizabeth Nebelin, Edited by Mrs. Colin McKenzie. Boston. Gould & Lincoln. 12mo.
75 cts.

Pope or President? Startling Disclosures of Romanism as Revealed by its own Writers. Facts
for Americans. New York. R.L. Delisser. 12mo. $1.00. $12.00.

A Gallery of Famous English and American Poets, with an Introductory Essay. By Henry Coppee,
A.M. Richly Illustrated. Philadelphia. E.H. Butler & Co. 8vo. morocco. $12.00.

Women of Beauty and Heroism. From Semiramis to Eugénie. A Portrait Gallery of Female Loveliness,
Achievement, and Influence. Illustrated with Nineteen Engravings on Steel. By Frank B. Goodrich.
New York. Derby & Jackson. 8vo. morocco. $12.00.

Wild Sports in the Far West. By Frederick Gerstaecker. Translated from the German. Boston.
Crosby, Nichols, & Co. 12mo. $1.00.

Our Charley, and What shall we Do with Him? By Mrs. H.B. Stowe. Boston. Phillips, Sampson,
& Co. 16mo. 50 cts.

The Mathematical Monthly. Edited by J. D. Runkle. For December and January. Cambridge. John
Bartlett. 2 Nos. 4to. 25 cts. each.

Sylvan Holt's Daughter. By Holme Lee. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. $1.00.

An Account of Donati's Comet of 1858. By George P. Bond. Extracted from the Mathematical Monthly.
Cambridge. John Bartlett. 4to. 50 cts.

What will He Do with It? By Pisistratus Caxton. A Novel. By Sir E. Bulwer Lytton, Bart. New
York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. $1.00.

The Comedies of Terence. New York. Harper & Brothers. Reprinted from Bohn's Classical Library.
12mo. 75 cts.

A Critical Dictionary of English Literature, and British and American Authors, Living and Deceased.
From the Earliest Accounts to the Middle of the Nineteenth Century. Containing Thirty Thousand
Biographies and Literary Notices, with Forty Indexes of Subjects. By S. Austin Allibone. Vol.
1. Philadelphia. Childs & Peterson. Imperial 8vo. $5.00.

The Ladies' Manual of Fancy Work; a Complete Instructor in Every Variety of Ornamental Needlework.
By Mrs. Pullan. Illustrated with over Three Hundred Engravings. New York. Dick & Fitzgerald.
12mo. $1.25.

The Afternoon of Unmarried Life. From the Last London Edition. New York. Rudd & Carleton. 12mo.
$1.00.

The Rainbow Side; a Sequel to "The Itinerant." By Mrs. C.M. Edwards. New York. Carlton & Porter.
16mo. 75 cts.

Biographies of Distinguished Scientific Men. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. $1.00. By the Author of
"Tom Brown's School Days." Illustrated by Richard Doyle. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. $1.00.
New York. D. Appleton & Co. 8vo. $2.50.

Ichnology of New England. A Report on the Sandstone of the Connecticut Valley, especially its
Fossil Footmarks, made to the Government of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. By Edward Hitchcock,
Professor in Amherst College. Plates, etc. Boston. William White, Printer to the State. 4to. $5.00.

Life of Robert Burns. Mostly by Thomas Carlyle. New York. Delisser & Proctor. 32mo. 50 cts.

The American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the Year 1859. Boston. Crosby,
Nichols, & Co. 12mo. paper, $1.00; half bound, $1.25.

Kansas in Eighteen Hundred Fifty Eight. Being chiefly a History of the Recent Troubles in the
Territory. By William P. Tomlinson. New York. H. Dayton. 12mo. $1.00.

Ethel's Love-Life. A Novel. By Margaret J.M. Sweat. New York. Rudd & Carleton. 12mo. $1.00.

The Adventures of Oliver Twist. By Charles Dickens. Library Edition. Boston. Ticknor & Fields.
12mo. $1.25.

The Household Edition of the Waverley Novels. Count Robert of Paris. 2 vols. Boston. Ticknor
& Fields. 12mo. $1.50. 3. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. $2.50.