"The little breezes are hot and sweet," he said, sniffing hungrily with his face turned toward
the south. "I know them, Ivan! I know them! They have the spice odor that I sniffed on the
winds that came to us when we lay in the trenches at Balaklava. Praise God for the warmth!"

And that day the Dream came to Big Ivan as he plowed. It was a wonder dream. It sprang into
his brain as he walked behind the plow, and for a few minutes he quivered as the big bridge
quivers when the Beresina sends her ice squadrons to hammer the arches. It made his heart pound
mightily, and his lips and throat became very dry.

Big Ivan stopped at the end of the furrow and tried to discover what had brought the Dream.
Where had it come from? Why had it clutched him so suddenly? Was he the only man in the village
to whom it had come?

Like his father, he sniffed the sweet-smelling breezes. He thrust his great hands into the
sunbeams. He reached down and plucked one of a bunch of white flowers that had sprung up overnight.
The Dream was born of the breezes and the sunshine and the spring flowers. It came from them
and it had sprung into his mind because he was young and strong. He knew! It couldn't come
to his father or Donkov, the tailor, or Poborino, the smith. They were old and weak, and Ivan's
dream was one that called for youth and strength.

"Ay, for youth and strength," he muttered as he gripped the plow. "And I have it!"

That evening Big Ivan of the Bridge spoke to his wife, Anna, a little woman, who had a sweet
face and a wealth of fair hair.

"Wife, we are going away from here," he said.

"Where are we going, Ivan?" she asked.

"Where do you think, Anna?" he said, looking down at her as she stood by his side.

"To Bobruisk," she murmured.

"No."

"Farther?"

"Ay, a long way farther."

Fear sprang into her soft eyes. Bobruisk was eighty-nine versts away, yet Ivan said they were
going farther.

"We--we are not going to Minsk?" she cried.

"Aye, and beyond Minsk!"

"Ivan, tell me!" she gasped. "Tell me where we are going!"

"We are going to America."

"To America?"

"Yes, to America!"

Big Ivan of the Bridge lifted up his voice when he cried out the words "To America," and then
a sudden fear sprang upon him as those words dashed through the little window out into the
darkness of the village street. Was he mad? America was 8,000 versts away! It was far across
the ocean, a place that was only a name to him, a place where he knew no one. He wondered in
the strange little silence that followed his words if the crippled son of Poborino, the smith,
had heard him. The cripple would jeer at him if the night wind had carried the words to his ear.

Anna remained staring at her big husband for a few minutes, then she sat down quietly at his
side. There was a strange look in his big blue eyes, the look of a man to whom has come a vision,
the look which came into the eyes of those shepherds of Judea long, long ago.

"What is it, Ivan?" she murmured softly, patting his big hand. "Tell me."

And Big Ivan of the Bridge, slow of tongue, told of the Dream. To no one else would he have
told it. Anna understood. She had a way of patting his hands and saying soft things when his
tongue could not find words to express his thoughts.

Ivan told how the Dream had come to him as he plowed. He told her how it had sprung upon him,
a wonderful dream born of the soft breezes, of the sunshine, of the sweet smell of the upturned
sod and of his own strength. "It wouldn't come to weak men," he said, baring an arm that showed
great snaky muscles rippling beneath the clear skin. "It is a dream that comes only to those
who are strong and those who want--who want something that they haven't got." Then in a lower
voice he said: "What is it that we want, Anna?"

The little wife looked out into the darkness with fear-filled eyes. There were spies even there
in that little village on the Beresina, and it was dangerous to say words that might be construed
into a reflection on the Government. But she answered Ivan. She stooped and whispered one word
into his ear, and he slapped his thigh with his big hand.

"Ay," he cried. "That is what we want! You and I and millions like us want it, and over there,
Anna, over there we will get it. It is the country where a muzhik is as good as a prince of
the blood!"

Anna stood up, took a small earthenware jar from a side shelf, dusted it carefully and placed
it upon the mantel. From a knotted cloth about her neck she took a ruble and dropped the coin
into the jar. Big Ivan looked at her curiously.

"It is to make legs for your Dream," she explained. "It is many versts to America, and one
rides on rubles."

"You are a good wife," he said. "I was afraid that you might laugh at me."

"It is a great dream," she murmured. "Come, we will go to sleep."

The Dream maddened Ivan during the days that followed. It pounded within his brain as he followed
the plow. It bred a discontent that made him hate the little village, the swift-flowing Beresina
and the gray stretches that ran toward Mogilev. He wanted to be moving, but Anna had said that
one rode on rubles, and rubles were hard to find.

And in some mysterious way the village became aware of the secret. Donkov, the tailor, discovered
it. Donkov lived in one-half of the cottage occupied by Ivan and Anna, and Donkov had long
ears. The tailor spread the news, and Poborino, the smith, and Yanansk, the baker, would jeer
at Ivan as he passed.

"When are you going to America?" they would ask.

"Soon," Ivan would answer.

"Take us with you!" they would cry in chorus.

"It is no place for cowards," Ivan would answer. "It is a long way, and only brave men can
make the journey."

"Are you brave?" the baker screamed one day as he went by.

"I am brave enough to want liberty!" cried Ivan angrily. "I am brave enough to want----"

"Be careful! Be careful!" interrupted the smith. "A long tongue has given many a man a train
journey that he never expected."

That night Ivan and Anna counted the rubles in the earthenware pot. The giant looked down at
his wife with a gloomy face, but she smiled and patted his hand.

"It is slow work," he said.

"We must be patient," she answered. "You have the Dream."

"Ay," he said. "I have the Dream."

Through the hot, languorous summertime the Dream grew within the brain of Big Ivan. He saw
visions in the smoky haze that hung above the Beresina. At times he would stand, hoe in hand,
and look toward the west, the wonderful west into which the sun slipped down each evening like
a coin dropped from the fingers of the dying day.

Autumn came, and the fretful whining winds that came down from the north chilled the Dream.
The winds whispered of the coming of the Snow King, and the river grumbled as it listened.
Big Ivan kept out of the way of Poborino, the smith, and Yanansk, the baker. The Dream was
still with him, but autumn is a bad time for dreams.

Winter came, and the Dream weakened. It was only the earthenware pot that kept it alive, the
pot into which the industrious Anna put every coin that could be spared. Often Big Ivan would
stare at the pot as he sat beside the stove. The pot was the cord which kept the Dream alive.

"You are a good woman, Anna," Ivan would say again and again. "It was you who thought of saving
the rubles."

"But it was you who dreamed," she would answer. "Wait for the spring, husband mine. Wait."

It was strange how the spring came to the Beresina that year. It sprang upon the flanks of
winter before the Ice King had given the order to retreat into the fastnesses of the north.
It swept up the river escorted by a million little breezes, and housewives opened their windows
and peered out with surprise upon their faces. A wonderful guest had come to them and found
them unprepared.

Big Ivan of the Bridge was fixing a fence in the meadow on the morning the Spring Maiden reached
the village. For a little while he was not aware of her arrival. His mind was upon his work,
but suddenly he discovered that he was hot, and he took off his overcoat. He turned to hang
the coat upon a bush, then he sniffed the air, and a puzzled look came upon his face. He sniffed
again, hurriedly, hungrily. He drew in great breaths of it, and his eyes shone with a strange
light. It was wonderful air. It brought life to the Dream. It rose up within him, ten times
more lusty than on the day it was born, and his limbs trembled as he drew in the hot, scented
breezes that breed the Wanderlust and shorten the long trails of the world.

Big Ivan clutched his coat and ran to the little cottage. He burst through the door, startling
Anna, who was busy with her housework.

"The Spring!" he cried. "The Spring!"

He took her arm and dragged her to the door. Standing together they sniffed the sweet breezes.
In silence they listened to the song of the river. The Beresina had changed from a whining,
fretful tune into a lilting, sweet song that would set the legs of lovers dancing. Anna pointed
to a green bud on a bush beside the door.

"It came this minute," she murmured.

"Yes," said Ivan. "The little fairies brought it there to show us that spring has come to stay."

Together they turned and walked to the mantel. Big Ivan took up the earthenware pot, carried
it to the table, and spilled its contents upon the well-scrubbed boards. He counted while Anna
stood beside him, her fingers clutching his coarse blouse. It was a slow business, because
Ivan's big blunt fingers were not used to such work, but it was over at last. He stacked the
coins into neat piles, then he straightened himself and turned to the woman at his side.

"It is enough," he said quietly. "We will go at once. If it was not enough, we would have to
go because the Dream is upon me and I hate this place."

"As you say," murmured Anna. "The wife of Littin, the butcher, will buy our chairs and our
bed. I spoke to her yesterday."

Poborino, the smith; his crippled son; Yanansk, the baker; Dankov, the tailor, and a score
of others were out upon the village street on the morning that Big Ivan and Anna set out. They
were inclined to jeer at Ivan, but something upon the face of the giant made them afraid. Hand
in hand the big man and his wife walked down the street, their faces turned toward Bobruisk,
Ivan balancing upon his head a heavy trunk that no other man in the village could have lifted.

At the end of the street a stripling with bright eyes and yellow curls clutched the hand of
Ivan and looked into his face.

"I know what is sending you," he cried.

"Ay, you know," said Ivan, looking into the eyes of the other.

"It came to me yesterday," murmured the stripling. "I got it from the breezes. They are free,
so are the birds and the little clouds and the river. I wish I could go."

"Keep your dream," said Ivan softly. "Nurse it, for it is the dream of a man."

Anna, who was crying softly, touched the blouse of the boy. "At the back of our cottage, near
the bush that bears the red berries, a pot is buried," she said. "Dig it up and take it home
with you and when you have a kopeck drop it in. It is a good pot."

The stripling understood. He stooped and kissed the hand of Anna, and Big Ivan patted him upon
the back. They were brother dreamers and they understood each other.

Boris Lugan has sung the song of the versts that eat up one's courage as well as the leather
of one's shoes.

     "Versts! Versts! Scores and scores of them!
     Versts! Versts! A million or more of them!
     Dust! Dust! And the devils who play in it,
     Blinding us fools who forever must stay in it."

Big Ivan and Anna faced the long versts to Bobruisk, but they were not afraid of the dust devils.
They had the Dream. It made their hearts light and took the weary feeling from their feet.
They were on their way. America was a long, long journey, but they had started, and every verst
they covered lessened the number that lay between them and the Promised Land.

"I am glad the boy spoke to us," said Anna.

"And I am glad," said Ivan. "Some day he will come and eat with us in America."

They came to Bobruisk. Holding hands, they walked into it late one afternoon. They were eighty-nine
versts from the little village on the Beresina, but they were not afraid. The Dream spoke to
Ivan, and his big hand held the hand of Anna. The railway ran through Bobruisk, and that evening
they stood and looked at the shining rails that went out in the moonlight like silver tongs
reaching out for a low-hanging star.

And they came face to face with the Terror that evening, the Terror that had helped the spring
breezes and the sunshine to plant the Dream in the brain of Big Ivan.

They were walking down a dark side street when they saw a score of men and women creep from
the door of a squat, unpainted building. The little group remained on the sidewalk for a minute
as if uncertain about the way they should go, then from the corner of the street came a cry
of "Police!" and the twenty pedestrians ran in different directions.

It was no false alarm. Mounted police charged down the dark thoroughfare swinging their swords
as they rode at the scurrying men and women who raced for shelter. Big Ivan dragged Anna into
a doorway, and toward their hiding place ran a young boy who, like themselves, had no connection
with the group and who merely desired to get out of harm's way till the storm was over.

The boy was not quick enough to escape the charge. A trooper pursued him, overtook him before
he reached the sidewalk, and knocked him down with a quick stroke given with the flat of his
blade. His horse struck the boy with one of his hoofs as the lad stumbled on his face.

Big Ivan growled like an angry bear, and sprang from his hiding place. The trooper's horse
had carried him on to the sidewalk, and Ivan seized the bridle and flung the animal on its
haunches. The policeman leaned forward to strike at the giant, but Ivan of the Bridge gripped
the left leg of the horseman and tore him from the saddle.

The horse galloped off, leaving its rider lying beside the moaning boy who was unlucky enough
to be in a street where a score of students were holding a meeting.

Anna dragged Ivan back into the passageway. More police were charging down the street, and
their position was a dangerous one.

"Ivan!" she cried, "Ivan! Remember the Dream! America, Ivan! America! Come this way! Quick!"

With strong hands she dragged him down the passage. It opened into a narrow lane, and, holding
each other's hands, they hurried toward the place where they had taken lodgings. From far off
came screams and hoarse orders, curses and the sound of galloping hoofs. The Terror was abroad.

Big Ivan spoke softly as they entered the little room they had taken. "He had a face like the
boy to whom you gave the lucky pot," he said. "Did you notice it in the moonlight when the
trooper struck him down?"

"Yes," she answered. "I saw."

They left Bobruisk next morning. They rode away on a great, puffing, snorting train that terrified
Anna. The engineer turned a stopcock as they were passing the engine, and Anna screamed while
Ivan nearly dropped the big trunk. The engineer grinned, but the giant looked up at him and
the grin faded. Ivan of the Bridge was startled by the rush of hot steam, but he was afraid
of no man.

The train went roaring by little villages and great pasture stretches. The real journey had
begun. They began to love the powerful engine. It was eating up the versts at a tremendous
rate. They looked at each other from time to time and smiled like two children.

They came to Minsk, the biggest town they had ever seen. They looked out from the car windows
at the miles of wooden buildings, at the big church of St. Catharine, and the woolen mills.
Minsk would have frightened them if they hadn't had the Dream. The farther they went from the
little village on the Beresina the more courage the Dream gave to them.

On and on went the train, the wheels singing the song of the road. Fellow travelers asked them
where they were going. "To America," Ivan would answer.

"To America?" they would cry. "May the little saints guide you. It is a long way, and you will
be lonely."

"No, we shall not be lonely," Ivan would say.

"Ha! you are going with friends?"

"No, we have no friends, but we have something that keeps us from being lonely." And when Ivan
would make that reply Anna would pat his hand and the questioner would wonder if it was a charm
or a holy relic that the bright-eyed couple possessed.

They ran through Vilna, on through flat stretches of Courland to Libau, where they saw the
sea. They sat and stared at it for a whole day, talking little but watching it with wide, wondering
eyes. And they stared at the great ships that came rocking in from distant ports, their sides
gray with the salt from the big combers which they had battled with.

No wonder this America of ours is big.

The harbormaster spoke to Ivan and Anna as they watched the restless waters.

"Where are you going, children?"

"To America," answered Ivan.

"A long way. Three ships bound for America went down last month."

"Our ship will not sink," said Ivan.

"Why?"

"Because I know it will not."

The harbor master looked at the strange blue eyes of the giant, and spoke softly. "You have
the eyes of a man who sees things," he said. "There was a Norwegian sailor in the White Queen,
who had eyes like yours, and he could see death."

"I see life!" said Ivan boldly. "A free life----"

"Hush!" said the harbor master. "Do not speak so loud." He walked swiftly away, but he dropped
a ruble into Anna's hand as he passed her by. "For luck," he murmured. "May the little saints
look after you on the big waters."

They boarded the ship, and the Dream gave them a courage that surprised them. There were others
going aboard, and Ivan and Anna felt that those others were also persons who possessed dreams.
She saw the dreams in their eyes. There were Slavs, Poles, Letts, Jews, and Livonians, all
bound for the land where dreams come true. They were a little afraid--not two per cent of them
had ever seen a ship before--yet their dreams gave them courage.

The emigrant ship was dragged from her pier by a grunting tug and went floundering down the
Baltic Sea. Night came down, and the devils who, according to the Esthonian fishermen, live
in the bottom of the Baltic, got their shoulders under the stern of the ship and tried to stand
her on her head. They whipped up white combers that sprang on her flanks and tried to crush
her, and the wind played a devil's lament in her rigging. Anna lay sick in the stuffy women's
quarters, and Ivan could not get near her. But he sent her messages. He told her not to mind
the sea devils, to think of the Dream, the Great Dream that would become real in the land to
which they were bound. Ivan of the Bridge grew to full stature on that first night out from
Libau. The battered old craft that carried him slouched before the waves that swept over her
decks, but he was not afraid. Down among the million and one smells of the steerage he induced
a thin-faced Livonian to play upon a mouth organ, and Big Ivan sang Paleer's "Song of Freedom"
in a voice that drowned the creaking of the old vessel's timbers, and made the seasick ones
forget their sickness. They sat up in their berths and joined in the chorus, their eyes shining
brightly in the half gloom:

     "Freedom for serf and for slave,
     Freedom for all men who crave
     Their right to be free
     And who hate to bend knee
     But to Him who this right to them gave."

It was well that these emigrants had dreams. They wanted them. The sea devils chased the lumbering
steamer. They hung to her bows and pulled her for'ard deck under emerald-green rollers. They
clung to her stern and hoisted her nose till Big Ivan thought that he could touch the door
of heaven by standing on her blunt snout. Miserable, cold, ill, and sleepless, the emigrants
crouched in their quarters, and to them Ivan and the thin-faced Livonian sang the "Song of
Freedom."

The emigrant ship pounded through the Cattegat, swung southward through the Skagerrack and
the bleak North Sea. But the storm pursued her. The big waves snarled and bit at her, and the
captain and the chief officer consulted with each other. They decided to run into the Thames,
and the harried steamer nosed her way in and anchored off Gravesend.

An examination was made, and the agents decided to transship the emigrants. They were taken
to London and thence by train to Liverpool, and Ivan and Anna sat again side by side, holding
hands and smiling at each other as the third-class emigrant train from Euston raced down through
the green Midland counties to grimy Liverpool.

"You are not afraid?" Ivan would say to her each time she looked at him.

"It is a long way, but the Dream has given me much courage," she said.

"To-day I spoke to a Lett whose brother works in New York City," said the giant. "Do you know
how much money he earns each day?"

"How much?" she questioned.

"Three rubles, and he calls the policemen by their first names."

"You will earn five rubles, my Ivan," she murmured. "There is no one as strong as you."

Once again they were herded into the bowels of a big ship that steamed away through the fog
banks of the Mersey out into the Irish Sea. There were more dreamers now, nine hundred of them,
and Anna and Ivan were more comfortable. And these new emigrants, English, Irish, Scotch, French,
and German, knew much concerning America. Ivan was certain that he would earn at least three
rubles a day. He was very strong.

On the deck he defeated all comers in a tug of war, and the captain of the ship came up to
him and felt his muscles.

"The country that lets men like you get away from it is run badly," he said. "Why did you leave
it?"

The interpreter translated what the captain said, and through the interpreter Ivan answered.

"I had a Dream," he said, "a Dream of freedom."

"Good," cried the captain. "Why should a man with muscles like yours have his face ground into
the dust?"

The soul of Big Ivan grew during those days. He felt himself a man, a man who was born upright
to speak his thoughts without fear.

The ship rolled into Queenstown one bright morning, and Ivan and his nine hundred steerage
companions crowded the for'ard deck. A boy in a rowboat threw a line to the deck, and after
it had been fastened to a stanchion he came up hand over hand. The emigrants watched him curiously.
An old woman sitting in the boat pulled off her shoes, sat in a loop of the rope, and lifted
her hand as a signal to her son on deck.

"Hey, fellers," said the boy, "help me pull me muvver up. She wants to sell a few dozen apples,
an' they won't let her up the gangway!"

Big Ivan didn't understand the words, but he guessed what the boy wanted. He made one of a
half dozen who gripped the rope and started to pull the ancient apple woman to the deck.

They had her halfway up the side when an undersized third officer discovered what they were
doing. He called to a steward, and the steward sprang to obey.

"Turn a hose on her!" cried the officer. "Turn a hose on the old woman!"

The steward rushed for the hose. He ran with it to the side of the ship with the intention
of squirting on the old woman, who was swinging in midair and exhorting the six men who were
dragging her to the deck.

"Pull!" she cried. "Sure, I'll give every one of ye a rosy red apple an' me blessing with it."

The steward aimed the muzzle of the hose, and Big Ivan of the Bridge let go of the rope and
sprang at him. The fist of the great Russian went out like a battering ram; it struck the steward
between the eyes, and he dropped upon the deck. He lay like one dead, the muzzle of the hose
wriggling from his limp hands.

The third officer and the interpreter rushed at Big Ivan, who stood erect, his hands clenched.

"Ask the big swine why he did it," roared the officer.

"Because he is a coward!" cried Ivan. "They wouldn't do that in America!"

"What does the big brute know about America?" cried the officer.

"Tell him I have dreamed of it," shouted Ivan. "Tell him it is in my Dream. Tell him I will
kill him if he turns the water on this old woman."

The apple seller was on deck then, and with the wisdom of the Celt she understood. She put
her lean hand upon the great head of the Russian and blessed him in Gaelic. Ivan bowed before
her, then as she offered him a rosy apple he led her toward Anna, a great Viking leading a
withered old woman who walked with the grace of a duchess.

"Please don't touch him," she cried, turning to the officer. "We have been waiting for your
ship for six hours, and we have only five dozen apples to sell. It's a great man he is. Sure
he's as big as Finn MacCool."

Some one pulled the steward behind a ventilator and revived him by squirting him with water
from the hose which he had tried to turn upon the old woman. The third officer slipped quietly
away.

The Atlantic was kind to the ship that carried Ivan and Anna. Through sunny days they sat up
on deck and watched the horizon. They wanted to be among those who would get the first glimpse
of the wonderland.

They saw it on a morning with sunshine and soft wind. Standing together in the bow, they looked
at the smear upon the horizon, and their eyes filled with tears. They forgot the long road
to Bobruisk, the rocking journey to Libau, the mad buckjumping boat in whose timbers the sea
devils of the Baltic had bored holes. Everything unpleasant was forgotten, because the Dream
filled them with a great happiness.

The inspectors at Ellis Island were interested in Ivan. They walked around him and prodded
his muscles, and he smiled down upon them good-naturedly.

"A fine animal," said one. "Gee, he's a new white hope! Ask him can he fight?"

An interpreter put the question, and Ivan nodded. "I have fought," he said.

"Gee!" cried the inspector. "Ask him was it for purses or what?"

"For freedom," answered Ivan. "For freedom to stretch my legs and straighten my neck!"

Ivan and Anna left the Government ferryboat at the Battery. They started to walk uptown, making
for the East Side, Ivan carrying the big trunk that no other man could lift.

It was a wonderful morning. The city was bathed in warm sunshine, and the well-dressed men
and women who crowded the sidewalks made the two immigrants think that it was a festival day.
Ivan and Anna stared at each other in amazement. They had never seen such dresses as those
worn by the smiling women who passed them by; they had never seen such well-groomed men.

"It is a feast day for certain," said Anna.

"They are dressed like princes and princesses," murmured Ivan. "There are no poor here, Anna.
None."

Like two simple children, they walked along the streets of the City of Wonder. What a contrast
it was to the gray, stupid towns where the Terror waited to spring upon the cowed people. In
Bobruisk, Minsk, Vilna, and Libau the people were sullen and afraid. They walked in dread,
but in the City of Wonder beside the glorious Hudson every person seemed happy and contented.

They lost their way, but they walked on, looking at the wonderful shop windows, the roaring
elevated trains, and the huge skyscrapers. Hours afterward they found themselves in Fifth Avenue
near Thirty-third Street, and there the miracle happened to the two Russian immigrants. It
was a big miracle inasmuch as it proved the Dream a truth, a great truth.

Ivan and Anna attempted to cross the avenue, but they became confused in the snarl of traffic.
They dodged backward and forward as the stream of automobiles swept by them. Anna screamed,
and, in response to her scream, a traffic policeman, resplendent in a new uniform, rushed to
her side. He took the arm of Anna and flung up a commanding hand. The charging autos halted.
For five blocks north and south they jammed on the brakes when the unexpected interruption
occurred, and Big Ivan gasped.

"Don't be flurried, little woman," said the cop. "Sure I can tame 'em by liftin' me hand."

Anna didn't understand what he said, but she knew it was something nice by the manner in which
his Irish eyes smiled down upon her. And in front of the waiting automobiles he led her with
the same care that he would give to a duchess, while Ivan, carrying the big trunk, followed
them, wondering much. Ivan's mind went back to Bobruisk on the night the Terror was abroad.

The policeman led Anna to the sidewalk, patted Ivan good-naturedly upon the shoulder, and then
with a sharp whistle unloosed the waiting stream of cars that had been held up so that two
Russian immigrants could cross the avenue.

Big Ivan of the Bridge took the trunk from his head and put it on the ground. He reached out
his arms and folded Anna in a great embrace. His eyes were wet.

"The Dream is true!" he cried. "Did you see, Anna? We are as good as they! This is the land
where a muzhik is as good as a prince of the blood!"

The President was nearing the close of his address. Anna shook Ivan, and Ivan came out of the
trance which the President's words had brought upon him. He sat up and listened intently:

We grow great by dreams. All big men are dreamers. They see things in the soft haze of a spring
day or in the red fire of a long winter's evening. Some of us let those great dreams die, but
others nourish and protect them, nurse them through bad days till they bring them to the sunshine
and light which come always to those who sincerely hope that their dreams will come true.

The President finished. For a moment he stood looking down at the faces turned up to him, and
Big Ivan of the Bridge thought that the President smiled at him. Ivan seized Anna's hand and
held it tight.

"He knew of my Dream!" he cried. "He knew of it. Did you hear what he said about the dreams
of a spring day?"

"Of course he knew," said Anna. "He is the wisest man in America, where there are many wise
men. Ivan, you are a citizen now."

"And you are a citizen, Anna."

The band started to play "My Country, 'tis of Thee," and Ivan and Anna got to their feet. Standing
side by side, holding hands, they joined in with the others who had found after long days of
journeying the blessed land where dreams come true.

JAMES FRANCIS DWYER

Mr. Dwyer is an American by adoption, an Australian by birth. He was born in Camden, New South
Wales, April 22, 1874; and received his education in the public schools there. He entered newspaper
work, and in the capacity of a correspondent for Australian papers traveled extensively in
Australia and in the South Seas, from 1898 to 1906. In 1906 he made a tour through South Africa,
and at the conclusion of this went to England. He came to America in 1907, and since that time
has made his home in New York City. He has been a frequent contributor to Collier's, Harper's
Weekly, The American Magazine, The Ladies' Home Journal, and other periodicals. He has published
five books, nearly all dealing with the strange life of the far East. His first book, The White
Waterfall, published in 1912, has its scene in the South Sea Islands. A California scientist,
interested in ancient Polynesian skulls, goes to the South Seas to investigate his favorite
subject, accompanied by his two daughters. The amazing adventures they meet there make a very
interesting story. The Spotted Panther is a story of adventure in Borneo. Three white men go
there in search of a wonderful sword of great antiquity which is in the possession of a tribe
of Dyaks, the head-hunters of Borneo. There are some vivid descriptions in the story and plenty
of thrills. The Breath of the Jungle is a collection of short stories, the scenes laid in the
Malay Peninsula and nearby islands. They describe the strange life of these regions, and show
how it reacts in various ways upon white men who live there. The Green Half Moon is a story
of mystery and diplomatic intrigue, the scene partly in the Orient, partly in London.

In his later work Mr. Dwyer has taken up American themes. The Bust of Lincoln, really a short
story, deals with a young man whose proudest possession is a bust of Lincoln that had belonged
to his grandfather; the story shows how it influences his life. The story The Citizen had an
interesting origin. On May 10, 1915, just after the sinking of the Lusitania, President Wilson
went to Philadelphia to address a meeting of an unusual kind. Four thousand foreign-born men,
who had just become naturalized citizens of our country, were to be welcomed to citizenship
by the Mayor of the city, a member of the Cabinet, and the President of the United States.
The meeting was held in Convention Hall; more than fifteen thousand people were present, and
the event, occurring as it did at a time when every one realized that the loyalty of our people
was likely to be soon put to the test, was one of historic importance. Moved by the significance
of this event, Mr. Dwyer translated it into literature. His story, "The Citizen," was published
in Collier's in November, 1915.

LIST OF AMERICAN SHORT STORIES CLASSIFIED BY LOCALITY

I. THE EAST

NEW ENGLAND

A New England Nun; A Humble Romance, Mary Wilkins-Freeman. Meadow-Grass; The Country Road,
Alice Brown. A White Heron; The Queen's Twin, Sarah Orne Jewett. Pratt Portraits; Later Pratt
Portraits, Anna Fuller. The Village Watch Tower, Kate Douglas Wiggin. The Old Home House, Joseph
C. Lincoln. Hillsboro People, Dorothy Canfield. Out of Gloucester; The Crested Seas, James
B. Connolly. Under the Crust, Thomas Nelson Page. Dumb Foxglove, Annie T. Slosson. Huckleberries
Gathered From New England Hills, Rose Terry Cooke.

NEW YORK CITY

The Four Million; The Voice of the City; The Trimmed Lamp,
   O. Henry.
Van Bibber and Others, Richard Harding Davis.
Doctor Rast, James Oppenheim.
Toomey and Others, Robert Shackleton.
Vignettes of Manhattan, Brander Matthews.
The Imported Bridegroom, Abraham Cahan.
Little Citizens; Little Aliens, Myra Kelly.
The Soul of the Street, Norman Duncan.
Wall Street Stories, Edwin Le Fevre.
The Optimist, Susan Faber.
Every Soul Hath Its Song, Fannie Hurst.

NEW JERSEY

Hulgate of Mogador, Sewell Ford. Edgewater People, Mary Wilkins-Freeman.

PENNSYLVANIA

Old Chester Tales; Doctor Lavender's People, Margaret Deland. Betrothal of Elypholate, Helen
R. Martin. The Passing of Thomas, Thomas A. Janvier. The Standard Bearers, Katherine Mayo.
Six Stars, Nelson Lloyd.

II. THE SOUTH

ALABAMA

Alabama Sketches, Samuel Minturn Peck. Polished Ebony, Octavius R. Cohen.

ARKANSAS

Otto the Knight; Knitters in the Sun, Octave Thanet.

FLORIDA

Rodman the Keeper, Constance F. Woolson.

GEORGIA

Georgia Scenes, A. B. Longstreet. Free Joe; Tales of the Home-Folks, Joel Chandler Harris.
Stories of the Cherokee Hills, Maurice Thompson. Northern Georgia Sketches, Will N. Harben.
His Defence, Harry Stilwell Edwards. Mr. Absalom Billingslea; Mr. Billy Downes, Richard Malcolm
Johnston.

KENTUCKY

Flute and Violin; A Kentucky Cardinal, James Lane Allen. In Happy Valley, John Fox, Jr. Back
Home; Judge Priest and his People, Irvin S. Cobb. Land of Long Ago; Aunt Jane of Kentucky,
Eliza Calvert Hall.

LOUISIANA

Holly and Pizen; Aunt Amity's Silver Wedding, Ruth McEnery Stuart. Balcony Stories; Tales of
Time and Place, Grace King. Old Creole Days; Strange True Stories of Louisiana, George W. Cable.
Bayou Folks, Kate Chopin.

TENNESSEE

In the Tennessee Mountains; Prophet of the Great Smoky Mountains,
  Charles Egbert Craddock. (Mary N. Murfree.)

VIRGINIA

In Ole Virginia, Thomas Nelson Page. Virginia of Virginia, Amelie Rives. Colonel Carter of
Cartersville, F. Hopkinson Smith.

NORTH CAROLINA

North Carolina Sketches, Mary N. Carter.

III. THE MIDDLE WEST

INDIANA

Dialect Sketches, James Whitcomb Riley.

ILLINOIS

The Home Builders, K. E. Harriman.

IOWA

Stories of a Western Town; The Missionary Sheriff, Octave Thanet. In a Little Town, Rupert Hughes.

KANSAS

In Our Town; Stratagems and Spoils, William Allen White.

MISSOURI

The Man at the Wheel, John Hanton Carter. Stories of a Country Doctor, Willis King.

MICHIGAN

Blazed Trail Stories, Stewart Edward White. Mackinac and Lake Stories, Mary Hartwell Catherwood.

OHIO

Folks Back Home, Eugene Wood.

WISCONSIN

Main-Travelled Roads, Hamlin Garland. Friendship Village; Friendship Village Love Stories,
Zona Gale.

IV. THE FAR WEST

ARIZONA

Lost Borders, Mary Austin. Arizona Nights, Stewart Edward White.

ALASKA

Love of Life; Son of the Wolf, Jack London.

CALIFORNIA

The Cat and the Cherub, Chester B. Fernald. The Luck of Roaring Camp; Tales of the Argonauts,
Bret Harte. The Splendid Idle Forties, Gertrude Atherton.

NEW MEXICO

The King of the Broncos, Charles F. Lummis. Santa Fe's Partner, Thomas A. Janvier.

WYOMING

Red Men and White; The Virginian; Members of the Family,
  Owen Wister.
Teepee Tales, Grace Coolidge.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

Caybigan, James N. Hopper.

NOTES AND QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

THE RIGHT PROMETHEAN FIRE

In Greek mythology, the work of creating living things was entrusted to two of the gods, Epimetheus
and Prometheus. Epimetheus gave to the different animals various powers, to the lion strength,
to the bird swiftness, to the fox sagacity, and so on until all the good gifts had been bestowed,
and there was nothing left for man. Then Prometheus ascended to heaven and brought down fire,
as his gift to man. With this, man could protect himself, could forge iron to make weapons,
and so in time develop the arts of civilization. In this story the "Promethean Fire" of love
is the means of giving little Emmy Lou her first lesson in reading.

     1. A test that may be applied to any story is, Does it read as if
     it were true? Would the persons in the story do the things they are
     represented as doing? Test the acts of Billy Traver in this way,
     and see if they are probable.

     2. In writing stories about children, a writer must have the power
     to present life as a child sees it. Point out places in this story
     where school life is described as it appears to a new pupil.

     3. One thing we ought to gain from our reading is a larger
     vocabulary. In this story there are a number of words worth adding
     to our stock. Define these exactly: inquisitorial; lachrymose;
     laconic; surreptitious; contumely.

     Get the habit of looking up new words and writing down their
     meanings.

     4. Can you write a story about a school experience?

     5. Other books containing stories of school life are:

     Little Aliens, Myra Kelly; May Iverson Tackles Life, Elizabeth
     Jordan; Ten to Seventeen, Josephine Daskam Bacon; Closed Doors,
     Margaret P. Montague. Read a story from one of these books, and
     compare it with this story.

THE LAND OF HEART'S DESIRE

Central Park, New York, covers an era of more than eight hundred acres, with a zoo and several
small lakes. On one of the lakes there are large boats with a huge wooden swan on each side.
Richard Harding Davis located one of his stories here: See "Van Bibber and the Swan Boats,"
in the volume called Van Bibber and Others.

     1. How is this story like the preceding one? What difference in the
     characters? What difference in their homes?

     2. How does Myra Kelly make you feel sympathy for the little folks?
     In what ways have their lives been less fortunate than the lives of
     children in your town?

     3. What is peculiar about the talk of these children? Do they all
     speak the same dialect? Many of the children of the East Side never
     hear English spoken at home.

     4. What touches of humor are there in this story?

     5. What new words do you find? Define garrulous, pedagogically,
     cicerone.

     6. Where did Miss Kelly get her materials for this story? See the
     life on page 37.

     7. What other stories by this author have you read? This is from
     Little Citizens; other books telling about the same characters
     are Little Aliens, and Wards of Liberty.

     8. Other books of short stories dealing with children are:
     Whilomville Stories, by Stephen Crane; The Golden Age, by
     Kenneth Grahame; The Madness of Philip, by Josephine Daskam
     Bacon; The King of Boyville, by William Allen White; New
     Chronicles of Rebecca, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. Read one of these,
     and compare it with Myra Kelly's story.

THE TENOR

     1. Point out the humorous touches in this story.

     2. Is the story probable? To answer this, consider two points:
     would Louise have undertaken such a thing as answering the
     advertisement? and would she have had the spirit to act as she did
     at the close? Note the touches of description and characterization
     of Louise, and show how they prepare for the events that follow.

     3. One of the most effective devices in art is the use of contrast;
     that is, bringing together two things or persons or ideas that are
     very different, perhaps the exact opposite of each other. Show that
     the main effect of this story depends on the use of contrast.

     4. Read the paragraph on page 43 beginning, "It happened to be a
     French tenor." Give in your own words the thought of this
     paragraph. Is it true? Can you give examples of it?

     5. Compare the length of this story with that of others in the
     book. Which authors get their effects in a small compass? Could any
     parts of this story be omitted?

     6. Other stories by H. C. Bunner that you will enjoy are "The Love
     Letters of Smith" and "A Sisterly Scheme" in Short Sixes.

THE PASSING OF PRISCILLA WINTHROP

     1. Does the title fit the story well? Why?

     2. Notice the familiar, almost conversational style. Is it suited
     to the story? Why?

     3. Show how the opening paragraph introduces the main idea of the
     story.

     4. To make a story there must be a conflict of some sort. What is
     the conflict here?

     5. How does the account of Julia Neal's career as a teacher (page
     64) prepare for the ending of the story?

     6. Do you have a clear picture in your mind of Mrs. Winthrop? Of
     Mrs. Worthington? Why did not the author tell about their personal
     appearance?

     7. Point out humorous touches in the next to the last paragraph.

     8. Is this story true to life? Who is the Priscilla Winthrop of
     your town?

     9. What impression do you get of the man behind this story? Do you
     think he knew the people of his town well? Did he like them even
     while he laughed at them? What else can you say about him?

     10. Other books of short stories dealing with life in a small town
     are: Pratt Portraits, by Anna Fuller; Old Chester Tales, by
     Margaret Deland; Stories of a Western Town, by Octave Thanet; In
     a Little Town, by Rupert Hughes; Folks Back Home, by Eugene
     Wood; Friendship Village, by Zona Gale; Bodbank, by Richard W.
     Child. Read one of these books, or a story from one, and compare it
     with this story.

     11. In what ways does life in a small town differ from life in a
     large city?

THE GIFT OF THE MAGI

This story, taken from the volume called The Four Million, is a good example of O. Henry's
method as a short-story writer. It is notable for its brevity. The average length of the modern
short story is about five thousand words; O. Henry uses a little over one thousand words. This
conciseness is gained in several ways. In his descriptions, he has the art of selecting significant
detail. A paragraph could do no more. Again, the beginning of the story is quick, abrupt. There
is no introduction. The style is often elliptical; in the first paragraph half the sentences
are not sentences at all. But the main reason for the shortness of the story lies in the fact
that the author has included only such incidents and details as are necessary to the unfolding
of the plot. There is no superfluous matter.

Another characteristic of O. Henry is found in the unexpected turns of his plots. There is
almost always a surprise in his stories, usually at the end. And yet this has been so artfully
prepared for that we accept it as probable. Our pleasure in reading his stories is further
heightened by the constant flashes of humor that light up his pages. And beyond this, he has
the power to touch deeper emotions. When Della heard Jim's step on the stairs, "she turned
white just for a moment. She had a habit of saying little silent prayers about the simplest
things, and now she whispered, 'Please God, make him think I am still pretty.'" One reads that
with a little catch in the throat.

In his plots, O. Henry is romantic; in his settings he is a realist. Della and Jim are romantic
lovers, they are not prudent nor calculating, but act upon impulse. In his descriptions, however,
he is a realist. The eight-dollar-a-week flat, the frying pan on the back of the stove, the
description of Della "flopping down on the couch for a cry," and afterwards "attending to her
cheeks with the powder-rag,"--all these are in the manner of realism.

And finally, the tone of his stories is brave and cheerful. He finds the world a most interesting
place, and its people, even its commonplace people, its rogues, its adventurers, are drawn
with a broad sympathy that makes us more tolerant of the people we meet outside the books.

     1. Compare the beginning of this story with the beginning of
     "Bitter-Sweet." What difference do you note?

     2. Select a description of a person that shows the author's power
     of concise portraiture.

     3. What is the turn of surprise in this story? What other stories
     in this book have a similar twist at the end?

     4. What is the central thought of this story?

     5. Other stories of O. Henry's that ought not to be missed are "An
     Unfinished Story" and "The Furnished Room" in The Four Million;
     "A Blackjack Bargainer" in Whirligigs; "Best Seller" and "The
     Rose of Dixie" in Options; "A Municipal Report" in Strictly
     Business; "A Retrieved Reformation" in Roads of Destiny; and
     "Hearts and Crosses" in Hearts of the West.

THE GOLD BRICK

This story, first published in the American Magazine, was reprinted in a volume called The
Gold Brick, published in 1910. The quotation "chip at crusts like Hindus" is from Robert Browning's
poem "Youth and Art." The reference to "Old Walt" at the end of the story is to Walt Whitman,
one of the great poets of democracy.

     1. To make a story interesting, there must be a conflict. In this
     the conflict is double: the outer conflict, between the two
     political factions, and the inner conflict, in the soul of the
     artist. Note how skilfully this inner struggle is introduced: at
     the moment when Kittrell is first rejoicing over his new position,
     he feels a pang at leaving the Post, and what it stood for. This
     feeling is deepened by his wife's tacit disapproval; it grows
     stronger as the campaign progresses, until the climax is reached in
     the scene where he resigns his position.

     2. If you knew nothing about the author, what could you infer from
     this story about his political ideals? Did he believe in democracy?
     Did he have faith in the good sense of the common people? Did he
     think it was worth while to make sacrifices for them? What is your
     evidence for this?

     3. How far is this story true to life, as you know it? Do any
     newspapers in your city correspond to the Post? To the
     Telegraph? Can you recall a campaign in which the contest was
     between two such groups as are described here?

     4. Does Whitlock have the art of making his characters real? Is
     this true of the minor characters? The girl in the flower shop, for
     instance, who appears but for a moment,--is she individualized?
     How?

     5. Is there a lesson in this story? State it in your own words.

     6. What experiences in Whitlock's life gave him the background for
     this story?

     7. What new words did you gain from this? Define meritricious;
     prognathic; banal; vulpine; camaraderie; vilification; ennui;
     quixotic; naïve; pharisaism. What can you say of Whitlock's
     vocabulary?

     8. Other good stories dealing with politics are found in
     Stratagems and Spoils, by William Allen White.

HIS MOTHER'S SON

     1. Note the quick beginning of the story; no introduction, action
     from the start. Why is this suitable to this story?

     2. Why is slang used so frequently?

     3. Point out examples of humor in the story.

     4. In your writing, do you ever have trouble in finding just the
     right word? Note on page 123 how Edna Ferber tries one expression
     after another, and how on page 122 she finally coins a
     word--"unadjectivable." What does the word mean?

     5. Do you have a clear picture of Emma McChesney? Of Ed Meyers?
     Note that the description of Meyers in the office is not given all
     at once, but a touch here and then. Point out all these bits of
     description of this person, and note how complete the portrait is.

     6. What have you learned in this story about the life of a
     traveling salesman?

     7. What qualities must a good salesman possess?

     8. Was Emma McChesney a lady? Was Ed Meyers a gentleman? Why do you
     think so?

     9. This story is taken from the book called Roast Beef, Medium.
     Other good books of short stories by this author are Personality
     Plus, and Cheerful--by Request.

BITTER-SWEET

     1. Note the introduction, a characteristic of all of Fannie Hurst's
     stories. What purpose does it serve here? What trait of Gertie's is
     brought out? Is this important to the story?

     2. From the paragraph on page 139 beginning "It was into the
     trickle of the last----" select examples that show the author's
     skill in the use of words. What other instances of this do you note
     in the story?

     3. Read the sketch of the author. What episode in her life gave her
     material for parts of this story?

     4. Notice how skillfully the conversation is handled. The opening
     situation developes itself entirely through dialogue, yet in a
     perfectly natural way. It is almost like a play rather than a
     story. If it were dramatized, how many scenes would it make?

     5. What does the title mean? Does the author give us the key to its
     meaning?

     6. What do you think of Gertie as you read the first part of the
     conversation in the restaurant? Does your opinion of her change at
     the end of the story? Has her character changed?

     7. Is the ending of the story artistic? Why mention the time-clock?
     What had Gertie said about it?

     8. State in three or four words the central idea of the story. Is
     it true to life?

     9. What is the meaning of these words: atavism; penumbra;
     semaphore; astigmatic; insouciance; mise-en-scene; kinetic?

     10. Other books of stories dealing with life in New York City are
     The Four Million, and The Voice of the City, by O. Henry; Van
     Bibber and Others, by Richard Harding Davis; Every Soul Hath Its
     Song, by Fannie Hurst; Doctor Rast, by James Oppenheim.

THE RIVERMAN

     1. In how many scenes is this story told? What is the connection
     between them?

     2. Is there anything in the first description of Dicky Darrell that
     gives you a slight prejudice against him?

     3. Why was the sympathy of the crowd with Jimmy Powers in the
     birling match?

     4. Comment on Jimmy's remark at the end of the story. Did he mean
     it, or is he just trying to turn away the praise?

     5. What are the characteristics of a lumberman, as seen in Jimmy
     Powers?

     6. Read the sketch of Stewart Edward White, and decide which one of
     his books you would like to read.

FLINT AND FIRE

     1. What does the title mean?

     2. How does the author strike the keynote of the story in the
     opening paragraph?

     3. Where is the first hint of the real theme of the story?

     4. Point out some of the dialect expressions. Why is dialect used?

     5. What turn of surprise comes at the end of the story? Is it
     probable?

     6. What characteristics of New England country people are brought
     out in this story? How does the author contrast them with "city
     people"?

     7. Does this story read as if the author knew the scenes she
     describes? Read the description of Niram plowing (page 191), and
     point out touches in it that could not have been written by one who
     had always lived in the city.

     8. Read the account of how this story was written, (page 210). What
     first suggested the idea? What work remained after the story was
     first written? How did the author feel while writing it? Compare
     what William Allen White says about his work, (page 75).

     9. Other stories of New England life that you will enjoy reading
     are found in the following books: New England Nun, Mary E.
     Wilkins; Cape Cod Folks, S. P. McLean Greene; Pratt Portraits,
     Anna Fuller; The Country Road, Alice Brown; Tales of New
     England, Sarah Orne Jewett.

THE ORDEAL AT MT. HOPE

     1. This story contains three characters who are typical of many
     colored people, and as such are worth study. Howard Dokesbury is
     the educated colored man of the North. What are the chief traits of
     this character?

     2. Aunt Caroline is the old-fashioned darky who suggests slavery
     days. What are her chief characteristics?

     3. 'Lias is the new generation of the Southern negro of the towns.
     What are his characteristics?

     4. Is the colored American given the same rights as others? Read
     carefully the opening paragraph of the story.

     5. What were the weaknesses of the colored people of Mt. Hope? How
     far are they true of the race? How were they overcome in this case?

     6. There are two theories about the proper solution of what is
     called "The Negro Problem." One is, that the hope of the race lies
     in industrial training; the other theory, that they should have
     higher intellectual training, so as to develope great leaders.
     Which theory do you think Dunbar held? Why do you think so?

     7.

ISRAEL DRAKE

The Pennsylvania State Police have made a wonderful record for maintaining law and order in
the rural sections of the state. The history of this organization was told by Katherine Mayo
in a book called Justice to All. In a later book, The Standard Bearers, she tells various incidents
which show how these men do their work. The book is not fiction--the story here told happened
just as it is set down, even the names of the troopers are their real names.

     1. Do you get a clear picture of Drake from the description? Why
     are several pages given to telling his past career?

     2. Where does the real story begin?

     3. Who was the tramp at the Carlisle Station? When did you guess
     it?

     4. What are the principles of the State Police, as you see them in
     this story?

     5. Why was such an organization necessary? Is there one in your
     state?

     6. What new words did you find in this story? Define aura,
     primeval, grisly.

THE STRUGGLES AND TRIUMPH OF ISIDRO

In this story the author introduces a number of unfamiliar words, chiefly of Spanish origin,
which are current in the Philippines. The meanings are given below.

     baguio, hurricane.
     barrio, ward; district.
     carabao, a kind of buffalo, used as a work animal.
     cabo, head officer.
     cibay, a boys' game.
     daledale, hurry up!
     de los Reyes, of the King.
     de la Cruz, of the cross.
     hacienda, a large plantation.
     ladrones, robbers.
     maestro, teacher.
     nipa, a palm tree or the thatch made from it.
     palay, rice.
     pronto, quickly.
     pueblo, town.
     que barbaridad!--what an atrocious thing!
     volador, kite.

     1. Why does the story end with Isidro's crying? What did this
     signify? What is the relation of this to the beginning of the
     story?

     2. Has this story a central idea? What is it?

     3. This might be called a story of local color, in that it gives in
     some detail the atmosphere of an unfamiliar locality. What are the
     best descriptive passages in the story?

     4. Judging from this story, what are some of the difficulties a
     school teacher meets with in the Philippines? What must he be
     besides a teacher?

     5. What other school stories are there in this book? The pupils in
     Emmy Lou's school, (in Louisville, Ky.) are those with several
     generations of American ancestry behind them; in Myra Kelly's
     story, they are the children of foreign parents; in this story they
     are still in a foreign land--that is, a land where they are not
     surrounded by American influences. The public school is the one
     experience that is common to them all, and therefore the greatest
     single force in bringing them all to share in a common ideal, to
     reverence the great men of our country's history, and to comprehend
     the meaning of democracy. How does it do these things?

THE CITIZEN

     1. During the war, President Wilson delivered an address at
     Philadelphia to an audience of men who had just been made citizens.
     The quoted passages in this story are taken from this speech. Read
     these passages, and select the one which probably gave the author
     the idea for this story.

     2. Starting with the idea, that he would write a story about
     someone who followed a dream to America, why should the author
     choose Russia as the country of departure?

     3. Having chosen Russia, why does he make Ivan a resident of a
     village far in the interior? Why not at Libau?

     4. Two incidents are told as occurring on the journey: the charge
     of the police at Bobrinsk, and the coming on board of the apple
     woman at Queenstown. Why was each of these introduced? What is the
     purpose of telling the incident on Fifth Avenue?

     5. What have you learned about the manner in which this story was
     written? Compare it with the account given by Dorothy Canfield as
     to how she wrote her story.

     6. What is the main idea in this story? Why do you think it was
     written? Edward Everett Hale wrote a story called "A Man without a
     Country." Suggest another title for "The Citizen."

     7. Has this story in any way changed your opinion of immigrants? Is
     Big Ivan likely to meet any treatment in America that will change
     his opinion of the country?

     8. The part of this story that deals with Russia affords a good
     example of the use of local color. This is given partly through the
     descriptions, partly through the names of the villagers--Poborino,
     Yanansk, Dankov; partly through the Russian words, such as verst
     (about three quarters of a mile), ruble (a coin worth fifty cents),
     kopeck (a half cent), muzhik (a peasant). How is local color given
     in the conversations?

     9. For a treatment of the theme of this story in poetry, read "Scum
     o' the Earth," by Robert Haven Schauffler, in Rittenhouse's Little
     Book of Modern Verse. This is the closing stanza:

     "Newcomers all from the eastern seas,
     Help us incarnate dreams like these.
     Forget, and forgive, that we did you wrong.
     Help us to father a nation, strong
     In the comradeship of an equal birth,
     In the wealth of the richest bloods of earth."