(b) A measurable action upon a body under which the state of rest of that body, or its state
of uniform motion in a straight line, suffers change.

(c) It may be defined by its measurement as the rate of change of momentum, or

(d) as the rate at which work is done per unit of space traversed.

Force is measured by the acceleration or change of motion it can impart to a body of unit mass
in a unit of time, or, calling force, F, mass, m acceleration per second a we have F = m a.

The dimensions of force are mass (M) * acceleration (L/(T^2)) = (M*L)/(T^2).

260   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Force de Cheval. Horse power (French).
It is the French or metric horse power.
It is equal to:
  542.496    Foot lbs. per second.
     .9864   English Horse Power.
   75.0      Kilogram-meters per second.

Force, Electro-magnetic. The mechanical force of attraction or repulsion acting on the electro-magnetic
unit of quantity. Its intensity varies with the square of the distance. It may also be defined
as electric force in the electro-magnetic system.

Its dimensions are equal to mechanical force ((M*L)/(T^2)) divided by quantity ((M^.5)*(L^.5))
= ((M^.5)*(L^.5))/(T^2).

Force, Electrostatic. The force by which electric matter or electrified surfaces attract or
repel each other. It is also termed electric force (not good) and electro-motive intensity.
It is the mechanical force acting upon a unit quantity of electricity. Its intensity varies
with the square of the distance.

Its dimensions are therefore equal to
(quantity * unity / (square of distance) Q. * 1 / (L^2)
 = ((M^.5) * (L^1.5) )/ T*1 / (L^2)
 = ((M^.5) * (L^.5)) / T
These dimensions are also those of potential difference.

The objection to the term electric force is that it may be applied also to electro-magnetic
force, and hence be a source of confusion.

Forces, Parallelogram of. The usual method of composing forces or resolving a force. The sides
of a parallelogram of forces represent component forces and the diagonal represents the resultant.
See Component--Resultant--Forces, Composition of--Forces, Resolution of.

Forces, Composition of. When several forces act in a different direction upon a point they
may be drawn or graphically represented as arrows or lines emanating from the point in the
proper direction and of lengths proportional to the force they exercise. Any two can be treated
as contiguous sides of a parallelogram and the parallelogram can be completed. Then its diagonal,
called the resultant, will represent the combined action of the two forces, both as regards
direction and intensity. This is the composition of two forces.

If more than two forces act upon the given point the resultant can be composed with any of
the others and a new force developed. The new resultant can be combined with another force,
and the process kept up, eliminating the components one by one until a final resultant of all
is obtained. This will give the exact direction and intensity of the forces, however many or
varied.

261   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Forces, Resolution of. The developing from a single force treated as a resultant, two other
forces in any desired direction. The reverse of composition of forces. (See Forces, Composition
of--Forces, Parallelogram of--Components--Resultant.)

Force, Tubes of. Aggregations of lines of force, either electrostatic or magnetic. They generally
have a truncated, conical or pyramidal shape and are not hollow. Every cross-section contains
the same number of lines. The name it will seem is not very expressive.

Force, Unit of. The fundamental or C. G. S. unit or force is the dyne, q. v.

The British unit of force is the poundal (the force which will produce an acceleration of one
foot per second in a mass of one pound). It is equal to about 10/322 pound. A force cannot
be expressed accurately in weight units, because weight varies with the latitude.

Forming. The process of producing secondary battery plates from lead plates by alternately
passing a charging current through the cell and then allowing it to discharge itself and repeating
the operation. (See Battery, Secondary, Planté's.)

Foundation Ring. In a dynamo armature the ring-shaped core on which Gramme ring armatures and
other ring armatures are wound.

Fourth State of Matter. Gas so rarefied that its molecules do not collide, or rarely do so;
radiant matter, q. v.

Frame. In a dynamo the bed-piece is sometimes called the frame.

Franklin's Experiment. Franklin proved the identity of lightning and electricity by flying
a kite in a thunder storm. The kite was of silk so as to endure the wetting. When the string
became wet sparks could be taken from a key attached to its end. The main string was of hemp;
at the lower end was a length of silk to insulate it. The key was attached near the end of
and to the hemp string.

Franklin's Plate. A simple form of condenser. It consists of a plate of glass coated on each
side with tinfoil with a margin of about an inch of clear glass. One coating may be grounded
as indicated in the cut, and the plate charged like a Leyden jar. Or one side may be connected
with one terminal, and the other with the other terminal of an influence machine and the pane
will be thus charged.

Synonym--Fulminating Pane.

262   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 174. FRANKLIN'S PLATE.

Franklin's Theory. The single fluid theory, q. v., of electricity.

Frequency. The number of double reversals or complete alternations per second in an alternating
current.

Synonym--Periodicity.

Frictional Electricity. Electricity produced by friction of dissimilar substances. (See Electrostatic
Series.) The contact theory holds that friction plays only a secondary rôle in this process;
that it increases the thoroughness of contact, and tends to dry the rubbing surfaces, but that
the charges induced are due to contact of dissimilar substances, not to friction of one against
the other.

Frictional Heating. The heating of a conductor by the passage of a current; the Joule effect, q. v.

Fringe. The outlying edge of a magnetic field.

Frog, Galvani's Experiment With. A classic experiment in electricity, leading to the discovery
of current or dynamic electricity. If a pair of legs of a recently killed frog are prepared
with the lumbar nerves exposed near the base of the spinal column, and if a metallic conductor,
one half-length zinc and the other half-length copper, is held, one end between the lumbar
nerves and the spine, and the other end against one of the muscles of the thigh or lower legs,
the moment contact occurs and the circuit is completed through the animal substance the muscles
contract and the leg is violently drawn upwards. Galvani, in 1786, first performed, by accident,
this famous experiment, it is said, with a scalpel with which he was dissecting the animal.
He gave his attention to the nerves and muscles. Volta, more happily, gave his attention to
the metals and invented the voltaic battery, described by him in a letter to Sir Joseph Banks,
dated 1800.

Frog, Rheoscopic. If the nerve or living muscle of a frog is suddenly dropped upon another
living muscle so as to come in contact with its longitudinal and transverse sections, the first
muscle will contract on account of the stimulation of its nerve due to the passage of a current
derived from the second muscle (Ganot). The experiment goes under the above title.

263   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Frying. A term applied to a noise sometimes produced in a voltaic arc due to too close approach
of the carbons to each other. It has been suggested that it may be due to volatilization of
the carbon. (Elihu Thomson.)

Fulgurite. An irregular and tubular mass of vitrified quartz, believed to be formed by melting
under the lightning stroke.

Fig. 175. CRUCIBLE, ELECTRIC.

Furnace, Electric. A furnace in which the heat is produced by the electric current. It has
hitherto been practically used only in the extraction of aluminum and silicium  from their
ores. The general principle involves the formation of an arc between carbon electrodes. The
substances to be treated are exposed to the heat thus produced. Sometimes the substances in
the arc form imperfect conductors, and incandescence takes a part in the action. Sometimes
the substances are merely dropped through the arc.

Fuse Board. A tablet on which a number of safety fuses are mounted. Slate is excellent material
for the tablet, as it is incombustible, and is easily drilled and worked.

Fuse Box. A box containing a safety fuse. Porcelain is an excellent material for its base.
No combustible material should enter into its composition.

Fuse, Cockburn. A safety fuse or cut off which consists of a wire of pure tin running from
terminal to terminal, to whose centre a leaden ball is secured by being cast into position.
The connection with the terminals is made by rings at the ends of the wire through which the
terminal screws are passed and screwed home. When the tin softens under too heavy a current
the weight of the shot pulls it apart.

Fig. 176 COCKBURN SAFETY FUSE.

264  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 177. ELECTRIC FUSE.

Fuse, Electric. A fuse for igniting an explosive by electricity. There are two kinds. In one
a thin wire unites the ends of the two conducting wires as they enter the case of the fuse.
The larger wires are secured to the case, so that no strain comes on the fine wire. On passing
a current of sufficient strength the small wire is heated. In use the fuse is bedded in powder,
which again may be surrounded by fulminating powder, all contained in a copper or other metallic
case. Such a detonator is used for exploding guncotton and other high explosives.

The other kind of fuse is similar, but has no thin connecting wire. The ends of the conductors
are brought nearer together without touching. In use a static discharge is produced across
from end to end of the conductors, igniting a proper explosive placed there as in the other case.

The first kind of fuse is generally operated by a battery or small mechanical generator--the
latter by a spark coil, frictional or influence machine or by a Leyden jar.

Galvanic. adj. Voltaic; relating to current electricity or the electrolytic and electro-chemical
relations of metals. (For titles in general under this head see Voltaic--or the main title.)

Galvanic Element. A galvanic couple with exciting fluid and adjuncts; a galvanic cell. The
word element is sometimes applied to the electrodes of a cell, as the carbon element or zinc
element.

265  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Galvanic Polarization. The polarization of a voltaic couple. (See Polarization.)

Galvanism. The science of voltaic or current electricity.

Galvanization. (a) Electroplating or depositing a metal over the surface of another by electrolysis.

(b) In medical electricity the effects produced on any part of the system by the current of
voltaic battery. Various descriptive qualifications are prefixed, such as "general" galvanization,
indicating its application as applied to the whole body, "local" for the reverse case, and so on.

Galvanization, Labile. Application of the galvanic current in electro-therapeutics where one
sponge electrode is employed which is rubbed or moved over the body, the other being in constant
contact with the body.

Galvanized Iron. Iron coated with zinc by cleaning and immersion in melted zinc. The iron is
prevented from rusting by galvanic action. It forms the negative element in a couple of which
the zinc is the positive element. From this electric protective action the name is derived.

Galvano-cautery, Chemical. Electro-therapeutic treatment with sharp electrodes, one of which
is inserted in the tissue and a current passed by completing the circuit through the tissue
so as to electrolyze or decompose the fluids of the tissue. It is applied in the removal of
hair or extirpation of the follicle. The process is not one of heating, and is improperly named
cautery.

Galvano-faradization. In medical electricity the application of the voltaic and induced or
secondary current simultaneously to any part of the system.

Galvanometer. An instrument for measuring current strength and sometimes for measuring inferentially
potential difference, depending on the action of a magnetic field established by the current,
such action being exerted on a magnetic needle or its equivalent.

A current passing through a conductor establishes circular lines of force. A magnetic needle
placed in their field is acted on and tends to place itself parallel with the lines, in accordance
with the principles of current induction. (See Induction, Electro-magnetic.) A common compass
held near a conductor through which a current is passing tends to place itself at right angles
to such conductor. For a maximum effect the conductor or the part nearest the needle should
lie in the magnetic meridian. If at right angles thereto its action will only strengthen the
directive force of the earth's induction or magnetic field, as the needle naturally points
north and south. Such combination is virtually a galvanometer.

266   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

A typical galvanometer comprises a flat coil of wire placed horizontally within which a magnetic
needle is delicately poised, so as to be free to rotate with the least possible friction. The
needle may be supported on a sharp point like a compass needle, or may be suspended by a long
fine filament. It should be covered by a glass plate and box, or by a glass shade. Finally
a graduated disc may be arranged to show the amount of deflection of the needle.

In use the apparatus is turned about until the needle, as acted on by the earth's magnetic
field, lies parallel to the direction of the coils of wire. On passing a current through the
coil the needle is deflected, more or less, according to its strength.

By using exceedingly fine wire, long enough to give high resistance, the instrument can be
used for very high potentials, or is in condition for use in determining voltage. By using
a coil of large wire and low resistance it can be employed in determining amperage. In either
case the deflection is produced by the current.

The needle is often placed above or below the coil so as only to receive a portion of its effect,
enough for all practical purposes in the commoner class of instruments.

The galvanometer was invented by Schweigger a short time after Oersted's discovery, q. v.

Galvanometer, Absolute. A galvanometer giving absolute readings; properly one whose law of
calibration can be deduced from its construction. Thus the diameter of the coil, and the constants
and position of a magnetic needle suspended in its field being known, the current intensity
required to deflect the needle a given number of degrees could be calculated.

Galvanometer, Aperiodic. A galvanometer whose needle is damped (see Damping) as, for instance,
by the proximity of a plate of metal, by an air vane or otherwise, so that it reaches its reading
with hardly any oscillation. A very light needle and a strong magnetic field also conduce to
vibrations of short period dying out very quickly. Such galvanometers are termed "dead-beat."
No instrument is absolutely dead-beat, only relatively so.

267  STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Fig. 178. ASTATIC GALVANOMETER.

Galvanometer, Astatic. A galvanometer with a pair of magnetic needles connected astatically,
or parallel with their poles in opposition. (See Astatic Needle.) Each needle has its own coil,
the coils being wound in opposite directions so as to unite in producing deflections in the
same sense. As there should be some directive tendency this is obtained by one of the magnets
being slightly stronger than the other or by the proximity of a fixed and adjustable controlling
magnet, placed nearer one needle than the other.

For small deflections the currents producing them are proportional to their extent.

Galvanometer, Ballistic. A galvanometer whose deflected element has considerable moment of
inertia; the exact opposite of an aperiodic or dead beat galvanometer. (See Galvanometer, Aperiodic.)
All damping by air vanes or otherwise must be carefully done away with.

Fig. 179. SIEMENS & HALSKE'S GALVANOMETER.

Siemens & Halske's galvanometer is of the reflecting or mirror type (see Galvanometer, Reflecting)
with suspended, bell-shaped magnet, in place of the ordinary magnetic needle, or astatic combination
of the lightest possible weight in the regular instrument. A copper ball drilled out to admit
the magnet is used as damper in the ordinary use of the instrument. To convert it into a ballistic
galvanometer the copper ball is removed. The heavy suspended magnet then by its inertia introduces
the desired element into the instrument.

268   STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Referring to the cut, Fig. 179, M is the suspended magnet, with north and south poles n and
s; S is the reflecting mirror; r is the tube containing the suspending thread; R is the damper
removed for ballistic work.

The ballistic galvanometer is used to measure quantities of electricity in an instantaneous
discharge, which discharge should be completed before the heavy needle begins to move. The
extreme elongation or throw of the needle is observed, and depends (1) on the number of coulombs
(K) that pass during the discharge; (2) on the moment of inertia of the needle and attached
parts; (3) on the moment of the controlling forces, i. e., the forces tending to pull the needle
back to zero; (4) on the moment of the damping forces; (5) on the moment of the deflecting
forces due to a given constant current. The formula is thus expressed:

K = (P / PI ) * A * sin( kº / 2 ) / tan( aº )

in which K = coulombs discharged; P = periodic time of vibration of needle; A = amperes producing
a steady deflection equal to  aº  ; kº = first angular deflection of needle. For accuracy kº
and aº should both be small and the damping so slight as to be negligible. Otherwise a correction
for the latter must be applied. For approximate work for kº and aº the deflections read on
the scale may be used with the following formula:

K = (P / PI ) * ( A / 2 ) * ( kº / aº )

Galvanometer Constant. Assume a galvanometer with a very short needle and so placed with respect
to its coils that the magnetic field produced by a current circulating in them is sensibly
uniform in the neighborhood of the needle, with its lines of force at right angles thereto.
The field is proportional to the current i, so that it may be denoted by G i. Then G is the
galvanometer constant. If now the angle of deflection of the needle is ? against the earth's
field H, M being the magnetic moment of the needle we have G i M cos ? = H M sin ? or i = (H/G)*
tan ?. H/G is the reduction factor; variable as H varies for different places.

For a tangent galvanometer the constant G is equal to  2*PI*(n/a), in which n denotes the number
of turns of wire, and a denotes the radius of the circle.

