 The bicycle--its front wheel buckled by collision with the Vicarage
gatepost--stood against the gate, and two or three cushions lay in the hedge; for the Vicar
had come out to the man's assistance, and had sent for the doctor, and it was the Vicar himself,
old and grey, but steady, who now held his library lamp for the doctor's use. The rest of us
stood looking on, one of us at least feeling rather sick at the sight, and all of us as useless
as the night-moths which came out from the trees and fluttered round the lamp. At last, when
all was done, and the injured man could be moved, there rose up a hitherto unnoticed fellow
who had been supporting him, and I recognized one of our village labourers. He looked faint,
and tottered to a chair which the Vicar had ready, and gulped at some brandy, for he, too,
had been overcome by sight of the surgery. But it was to him that the task of sitting in the
dusty road and being smeared with blood had fallen.

And this quiet acceptance of the situation, recognizing that he if anyone must suffer, and
take the hard place which soils the clothes and shocks the feelings, gives the clue to the
average labourer's temper. It is really very curious to think of. Rarely can a labourer afford
the luxury of a "change." Wet through though his clothes may be, or blood-stained, or smothered
with mud or dust, he must wear them until he goes to bed, and must put them on again as he
finds them in the morning; but this does not excuse him in our eyes from taking the disagreeable
place. Still less does it excuse him in his own eyes. If you offer to help, men of this kind
will probably dissuade you. "It'll make yer clothes all dirty," they say; "you'll get in such
a mess." So they assume the burden, sometimes surly and swearing, oftener with a good-tempered
jest.

To anything with a touch of humour in it they will leap forward like schoolboys. I am reminded
of a funny incident one frosty morning, when patches of the highway were slippery as glass.
Preceding me along the road was a horse and cart, driven by a boy who stood upright in the
cart, and seemed not to notice how the horse's hoofs were skidding; and some distance ahead
three railway navvies were approaching, just off their night's work, and carrying their picks
and shovels. I had left the cart behind, and was near these three, when suddenly they burst
into a laugh, exclaiming to one another, "Look at that old 'oss!" I turned. There sat the horse
on his tail between the shafts, pawing with his forefeet at the road, but unable to get a grip
at its slippery surface. It was impossible not to smile; he had such an absurd look. The navvies,
however, did more than smile. They broke into a run; they saw immediately what to do. In thirty
seconds they were shovelling earth out from the hedgerow under the horse's feet, and in two
minutes more he had scrambled up, unhurt.

In such behaviour, I say, we have a clue to the labouring-man's temper. The courage, the carelessness
of discomfort, the swiftness to see what should be done, and to do it, are not inspired by
any tradition of chivalry, any consciously elaborated cult. It is habitual with these men to
be ready, and those fine actions which win our admiration are but chance disclosures in public
of a self-reliance constantly practised by the people amongst themselves--by the women quite
as much as by the men--under stress of necessity, one would say at first sight. Take another
example of the same willing efficiency applied in rather a different way. In a cottage near
to where I am writing a young labourer died last summer--a young unmarried man, whose mother
was living with him, and had long depended on his support. Eighteen months earlier he had been
disabled for a week or two by the kick of a horse, and a heart-disease of long standing was
so aggravated by the accident that he was never again able to do much work. There came months
of unemployment, and as a consequence he was in extreme poverty when he died. His mother was
already reduced to parish relief; it was only by the help of his two sisters--young women out
at service, who managed to pay for a coffin for him--that a pauper's funeral was avoided. A
labourer's wife, the mother of four or five young children, took upon herself the duty of washing
and laying out the corpse, but there remained still the funeral to be managed. An undertaker
to conduct it could not be engaged; there was no money to pay him. Then, however, neighbours
took the matter up, not as an unwonted thing, I may say--it is usual with them to help bury
a "mate"--only, as a rule, there is the undertaker too. In this case they did without him--six
poor men losing half a day's work, and giving their services. The coffin was too big to be
carried down the crooked staircase; too big also to be got out of the bedroom window until
the window-sashes had been taken out. But these men managed it all, borrowing tools and a couple
of ladders and some ropes; and then, in the black clothes which they keep for such occasions,
they carried the coffin to the churchyard. That same evening two of them went to work at cleaning
out a cess-pit, two others spent the evening in their gardens, another had cows to milk, and
the sixth, being out of work and restless, had no occupation to go home to so far as I know.

Of course this, too, was a piece of voluntary service, resembling in that respect those more
striking examples of self-reliance which are brought out by sudden emergencies. But it points,
more directly than they do, to the sphere in which that virtue is practised until it becomes
a habit. For if you follow the clue on, it leads very quickly to the scene where self-reliance
is so to speak at home, where it seems the natural product of the people's circumstances--the
scene, namely, of their daily work. For there, not only in the employment by which the men
earn their wages, but in the household and garden work of the women as well as the men, there
is nothing to support them save their own readiness, their own personal force.

It sounds a truism, but it is worth attention. Unlike the rest of us, labouring people are
unable to shirk any of life's discomforts by "getting a man" or "a woman," as we say, to do
the disagreeable or risky jobs which continually need to be done. If a cottager in this village
wants his chimney swept, or his pigstye cleaned out, or his firewood chopped, the only "man"
he can get to do it for him is himself. Similarly with his wife. She may not call in "a woman"
to scrub her floor, or to wash and mend, or to skin a rabbit for dinner, or to make up the
fire for cooking it. It is necessary for her to be ready to turn from one task to another without
squeamishness, and without pausing to think how she shall do it. In short, she and her husband
alike must practise, in their daily doings, a sort of intrepidity which grows customary with
them; and this habit is the parent of much of that fine conduct which they exhibit so carelessly
in moments of emergency.

Until this fact is appreciated there is no such thing as understanding the people's disposition.
It is the principal gateway that lets you in to their character. Nevertheless the subject needs
no further illustration here. Anyone personally acquainted with the villagers knows how their
life is one continuous act of unconscious self-reliance, and those who have not seen it for
themselves will surely discover plentiful evidences of it in the following pages, if they read
between the lines.

But I must digress to remark upon one aspect of the matter. In view of the subject of this
book--namely, the transition from an old social order to present times--it should be considered
whether the handiness of the villagers is after all quite so natural a thing as is commonly
supposed. For a long time I took it for granted. The people's accomplishments were rough, I
admit, and not knowing how much "knack" or experience was involved in the dozens of odd jobs
that they did, I assumed that they did them by the light of Nature. Yet if we reflect how little
we learn from Nature, and how helpless people grow after two or three generations of life in
slums, or in libraries and drawing-rooms, it would seem probable that there is more than appears
on the surface in the labourer's versatility of usefulness. After all, who would know by the
light of Nature how to go about sweeping a chimney, as they used to do it here, with rope and
furzebush dragged down? or how to scour out a watertank effectively? or where to begin upon
cleaning a pigstye? Easy though it looks, the closer you get down to this kind of work as the
cottager does it the more surprisedly do you discover that he recognizes right and wrong methods
of doing it; and my own belief is that the necessity which compels the people to be their own
servants would not make them so adaptable as they are, were there not, at the back of them,
a time-honoured tradition teaching them how to go on.

Returning from this digression, and speaking, too, rather of a period from ten to twenty years
ago than of the present time, it would be foolish to pretend that the people's good qualities
were unattended by defects. The men had a very rough exterior, so rough that I have known them
to inspire timidity in the respectable who met them on the road, and especially at night, when,
truth to tell, those of them who were out were not always too sober. After you got to know
them, so as to understand the shut of their mouths and the look of their eyes--usually very
steadfast and quiet--you knew that there was rarely any harm in them; but I admit that their
aspect was unpromising enough at first sight. A stranger might have been forgiven for thinking
them coarse, ignorant, stupid, beery, unclean. And yet there was excuse for much of it, while
much more of it was sheer ill-fortune, and needed no excuse. Though many of the men were physically
powerful, few of them could boast of any physical comeliness. Their strength had been bought
dear, at the cost of heavy labour begun too early in life, so that before middle-age they were
bent in the back, or gone wrong at the knees, and their walk (some of them walked miles every
day to their work) was a long shambling stride, fast enough, but badly wanting in suggestiveness
of personal pride. Seeing them casually in their heavy and uncleanly clothes, no one would
have dreamed of the great qualities in them--the kindliness and courage and humour, the readiness
to help, the self-control, the patience. It was all there, but they took no pains to look the
part; they did not show off.

In fact, their tendency was rather in the contrary direction. They cared too little what was
thought of them to be at the pains of shocking one's delicacy intentionally; but they were
by no means displeased to be thought "rough." It made them laugh; it was a tribute to their
stout-heartedness. Nor was there anything necessarily braggart in this attitude of theirs.
As they realized that work would not be readily offered to a man who might quail before its
unpleasantness, so it was a matter of bread-and-cheese to them to cultivate "roughness." I
need not, indeed, be writing in the past tense here. It is still bad policy for a workman to
be nice in his feelings, and several times I have had men excuse themselves for a weakness
which they knew me to share, but which they seemed to think needed apology when they, too,
exhibited it. Only a few weeks ago a neighbour's cat, affected with mange, was haunting my
garden, and had become a nuisance. Upon my asking the owner--a labourer who had worked up to
be something of a bricklayer--to get rid of it, he said he would get a certain old-fashioned
neighbour to kill it, and then he plunged into sheepish explanations why he would rather not
do the deed himself. "Anybody else's cat," he urged, "he wouldn't mind so much," but he had
a touch of softness towards his own. It was plain that in reality he was a man of tender feelings,
yet it was no less plain that he was unwilling to be thought too tender. The curious thing
was that neither of us considered for a moment the possibility of any reluctance staying the
hand of the older neighbour. Him we both knew fairly well as a man of that earlier period with
which I am concerned just now. At that period the village in general had a lofty contempt for
the "meek-hearted" man capable of flinching. An employer might have qualms, though the men
thought no better of him for that possession, but amongst themselves flinching was not much
other than a vice. In fact, they dared not be delicate. Hence through all their demeanour they
displayed a hardness which in some cases went far below the surface, and approached real brutality.

Leaving out the brutality, the women were not very different from the men. It might have been
supposed that their domestic work--the cooking and cleaning and sewing from which middle-class
women seem often to derive so comely a manner--would have done something to soften these cottage
women. But it rarely worked out so. The women shared the men's carelessness and roughness.
That tenderness which an emergency discovered in them was hidden in everyday life under manners
indicative of an unfeigned contempt for what was gentle, what was soft.

And this, too, was reasonable. In theory, perhaps, the women should have been refined by their
housekeeping work; in practice that work necessitated their being very tough. Cook, scullery-maid,
bed-maker, charwoman, laundress, children's nurse--it fell to every mother of a family to play
all the parts in turn every day, and if that were all, there was opportunity enough for her
to excel. But the conveniences which make such work tolerable in other households were not
to be found in the cottage. Everything had to be done practically in one room--which was sometimes
a sleeping-room too, or say in one room and a wash-house. The preparation and serving of meals,
the airing of clothes and the ironing of them, the washing of the children, the mending and
making--how could a woman do any of it with comfort in the cramped apartment, into which, moreover,
a tired and dirty man came home in the evening to eat and wash and rest, or if not to rest,
then to potter in and out from garden or pig-stye, "treading in dirt" as he came? Then, too,
many cottages had not so much as a sink where work with water could be done; many had no water
save in wet weather; there was not one cottage in which it could be drawn from a tap, but it
all had to be fetched from well or tank. And in the husband's absence at work, it was the woman's
duty--one more added to so many others--to bring water indoors. In times of drought water had
often to be carried long distances in pails, and it may be imagined how the housework would
go in such circumstances. For my part I have never wondered at roughness or squalor in the
village since that parching summer when I learnt that in one cottage at least the people were
saving up the cooking water of one day to be used over again on the day following. Where such
things can happen the domestic arts are simplified to nothing, and it would be madness in women
to cultivate refinement or niceness.

And my neighbours appeared not to wish to cultivate them. It may be added that many of the
women--the numbers are diminishing rapidly--were field-workers who had never been brought up
to much domesticity. Far beyond the valley they had to go to earn money at hop-tying, haymaking,
harvesting, potato-picking, swede-trimming, and at such work they came immediately, just as
the men did, under conditions which made it a vice to flinch. As a rule they would leave work
in the afternoon in time to get home and cook a meal in readiness for their husbands later,
and at that hour one saw them on the roads trudging along, under the burden of coats, dinner-baskets,
tools, and so on, very dishevelled--for at field-work there is no such thing as care for the
toilet--but often chatting not unhappily.

On the roads, too, women were, and still are, frequently noticeable, bringing home on their
backs faggots of dead wood, or sacks of fir-cones, picked up in the fir-woods a mile away or
more. Prodigious and unwieldy loads these were. I have often met women bent nearly double under
them, toiling painfully along, with hats or bonnets pushed awry and skirts draggling. Occasionally
tiny urchins, too small to be left at home alone, would be clinging to their mothers' frocks.

In the scanty leisure that the women might enjoy--say now and then of an afternoon--there were
not many circumstances to counteract the hardness contracted at their work. These off times
were opportunities for social intercourse between them. They did not leave home, however, and
go out "paying calls." Unless on Sunday evenings visiting one another's cottages was not desirable.
But there were other resources. I have mentioned how sounds will travel across the valley,
and I have known women come to their cottage doors high up on this side to carry on a shouting
conversation with neighbours opposite, four hundred yards away. You see, they were under no
constraint of propriety in its accepted forms, nor did they care greatly who heard what they
had to say. I have sometimes wished that they did care. But, of course, the more comfortable
way of intercourse was to talk across the quickset hedge between two gardens. Sometimes one
would hear--all an afternoon it seemed--the long drone of one of these confabulations going
on in unbroken flow, with little variation of cadence, save for a moaning rise and fall, like
the wind through a keyhole. I have a suspicion that the shortcomings of neighbours often made
the staple of such conversations, but that is only a surmise. I remember the strange conclusion
of one of them which reached my ears. For, as the women reluctantly parted, they raised their
voices, and one said piously, "Wal, they'll git paid for 't, one o' these days. Gawd A'mighty's
above the Devil"; to which the other, with loud conviction: "Yes, and always will be, thank
Gawd!" This ended the talk. But the last speaker, turning round, saw her two-year-old daughter
asprawl in the garden, and with sudden change from satisfied drawl to shrill exasperation,
"Git up out of all that muck, you dirty little devil," she said. For she was a cleanly woman,
proud of her children, and disliking to see them untidy.

III

MAN AND WIFE

For general social intercourse the labouring people do not meet at one another's cottages,
going out by invitation, or dropping in to tea in the casual way of friendship; they have to
be content with "passing the time of day" when they come together by chance. Thus two families
may mingle happily as they stroll homewards after the Saturday night's shopping in the town,
or on a fine Sunday evening they may make up little parties to go and inspect one another's
gardens.

Until recently--so recently that the slight change may be ignored at least for the present--the
prevailing note of this so restricted intercourse was a sort of bonhomie, or good temper and
good sense. With this for a guide, the people had no need of the etiquette called "good manners,"
but were at liberty to behave as they liked, and talk as they liked, within the bounds of neighbourliness
and civility. This has always been one of the most conspicuous things about the people--this
independence of conventions. In few other grades of society could men and women dare to be
so outspoken together, so much at ease, as these villagers still often are. Their talk grows
Chaucerian at times. Merrily, or seriously, as the case may be, subjects are spoken of which
are never alluded to between men and women who respect our ordinary conventions.

Let it be admitted--if anybody wishes to feel superior--that the women must be wanting in "delicacy"
to countenance such things. There are other aspects of the matter which are better worth considering.
Approaching it, for instance, from an opposite point of view, one perceives that the average
country labourer can talk with less restraint because he has really less to conceal than many
men who look down upon him. He may use coarse words, but his thoughts are wont to be cleanly,
so that there is no suspicion of foulness behind his conversation, rank though it sound. A
woman consequently may hear what he says, and not be offended by suggestion of something left
unsaid. On these terms the jolly tale is a jolly tale, and ends at that. It does not linger
to corrupt the mind with an unsavoury after-flavour.

But more than this is indicated by the want of conventional manners in the village. The main
fact is that the two sexes, each engaged daily upon essential duties, stand on a surprising
equality the one to the other. And where the men are so well aware of the women's experienced
outlook, and the women so well aware of the men's, the affectation of ignorance might almost
be construed as a form of immodesty, or at any rate as an imprudence. It would, indeed, be
too absurd to pretend that these wives and mothers, who have to face every trial of life and
death for themselves, do not know the things which obviously they cannot help knowing; too
absurd to treat them as though they were all innocence, and timidity, and daintiness. No labouring
man would esteem a woman for delicacy of that kind, and the women certainly would not like
to be esteemed for it. Hence the sexes habitually meet on almost level terms. And the absence
of convention extends to a neglect--nay, to a dislike--of ordinary graceful courtesies between
them. So far as I have seen they observe no ceremonial. The men are considerate to spare women
the more exhausting or arduous kinds of work; but they will let a woman open the door for herself,
and will be careless when they are together who stands or who sits, or which of them walks
on the inside of the path, or goes first into a gateway. And the women look for nothing different.
They expect to be treated as equals. If a cottage woman found that a cottage man was raising
his hat to her, she would be aflame with indignation, and would let him know very plainly indeed
that she was not that sort of fine lady.

In general, the relations between the sexes are too matter-of-fact to permit of any refinement
of feeling about them, and it is not surprising that illegitimacy has been very common in the
village. But once a man and a woman are married, they settle down into a sober pair of comrades,
and instead of the looseness which might be looked for there is on the whole a remarkable fidelity
between the married couples. I have no distinct memory of having heard during twenty years
of any certain case of intrigue or conjugal misbehaviour amongst the cottage folk. The people
seem to leave that sort of thing to the employing classes. It scandalizes them to hear of it.
They despise it. Oddly enough, this may be partly due to the want of a feminine ideal, such
as is developed by help of our middle-class arts and recognized in our conventions. True, the
business of making both ends meet provides the labourer and his wife with enough to think about,
especially when the children begin to come. Then, too, they have no luxuries to pamper their
flesh, no lazy hours in which to grow wanton. The severity of the man's daily labour keeps
him quiet; the woman, drudge that she is, soon loses the surface charm that would excite admirers.
But when all this is said, it remains probable that a lowliness in their ideal preserves the
villagers from temptation. They do not put woman on a pedestal to be worshipped; they are unacquainted
with the finer, more sensitive, more high-strung possibilities of her nature. People who have
been affected by long traditions of chivalry, or by the rich influences of art, are in another
case; but here amongst the labouring folk a woman is not seen through the medium of any cherished
theories; she is merely an individual woman, a man's comrade and helper, and the mother of
his family. It is a fine thing, though, about the unions effected on these unromantic terms,
that they usually last long, the man and wife growing more affectionate, more tender, more
trustful, as they advance in years.

Of course, the marriages are not invariably comfortable or even tolerable. One hears sometimes
of men callously disappearing--deserting their wives for a period, and going off, as if for
peace, to distant parts wherever there is work to be picked up. One man, I remember, was reported
to have said, when he ultimately reappeared, that he had gone away because "he thought it would
do his wife good." Another, who had openly quarrelled with his wife and departed, was discovered
months afterwards working in a Sussex harvest-field. He came back by-and-by, and now for years
the couple have been living together, not without occasional brawls, it's true, but in the
main good comrades, certainly helpful to one another, and very fond of their two or three children.
A bad case was that of a bullying railway navvy, who, having knocked his wife about and upset
his old father, went off ostensibly to work. In reality he made his way by train to a town
some ten miles distant, and from there, in a drunken frolic, sent a telegram home to his wife
announcing that he was dead. He had given no particulars: a long search for him followed, and
he was found some days later in a public-house of that town vaingloriously drinking. I remember
that Bettesworth, who told me this tale, was full of indignation. "Shouldn't you think he could
be punished for that?" he asked. "There, if I had my way he should have twelve months reg'lar
hard labour, and see if that wouldn't dummer a little sense into 'n." There was no suggestion,
however, of "a woman in the case," to explain this man's ill-treatment of his wife; it appears
to have been simply a piece of freakish brutality.

When disagreements occur, it is likely that the men are oftener to blame than their wives.
Too often I have seen some woman or other of the village getting her drunken and abusive husband
home, and never once have I seen it the other way about. Nevertheless, in some luckless households
the faults are on the woman's side, and it is the man who has the heartache. I knew one man--a
most steady and industrious fellow, in constant work which kept him from home all day--whose
wife became a sort of parasite on him in the interest of her own thriftless relatives. In his
absence her brothers and sisters were at his table eating at his expense; food and coals bought
with his earnings found their way to her mother's cottage; in short, he had "married the family,"
as they say. He knew it, too. In its trumpery way the affair was an open scandal, and the neighbours
dearly wished to see him put a stop to it. Yet, though he would have had public opinion to
support him in taking strong measures, his own good nature deterred him from doing so. Probably,
too, his own course was the happier one. Thrive he never could, and gloomy enough and dispirited
enough he used to look at times; yet to see him with his children on Sundays--two or three
squalid, laughing urchins--was to see a very acceptable sight.

Returning to the main point, if anyone has a taste for ugly behaviour, and thinks nothing "real"
but what is uncomfortable too, he may find plenty of subjects for study in the married life
of this parish; but he will be ridiculously mistaken if he supposes the ugliness to be normal.
A kind of dogged comradeship--I can find no better word for it--is what commonly unites the
labouring man and his wife; they are partners and equals running their impecunious affairs
by mutual help. I was lately able to observe a man and woman after a removal settling down
into their new quarters. It was the most ordinary, matter-of-fact affair in the world. The
man, uncouth and strong, like a big dog or an amiable big boy, moved about willingly under
his wife's direction, doing the various jobs that required strength. One evening, in rain,
his wife stood watching while he chopped away the wet summer grass that had grown tall under
the garden hedge; then she pointed out four or five spots against the hedge, where he proceeded
to put in wooden posts. Early the next morning there was a clothes-line between the posts,
and the household washing was hanging from it. Nothing could have been more commonplace than
the whole incident, but the commonness was the beauty of it. And it was done somehow in a way
that warmed one to a feeling of great liking for those two people.

Very often it seems to be the woman who supplies the brains, and does the scheming, for the
partnership. When old Bettesworth was on his last legs, as many as half a dozen different men
applied to me for his job, of whom one, I very well remember, apologized for troubling me,
but said his "missus" told him to come. Poor chap! it was his idea of courtesy to offer an
apology, and it was the Old Adam in him that laid the blame on his wife, for really he desired
very much to escape from his arduous night-work on the railway. At the same time there is not
the least doubt that what he said was true; that he and his wife had talked the matter over,
and that, when he proved timid of interviewing me, she forced him to come. Again, two or three
winters ago, a man despairing of work in England got in touch with some agency to assist him
in emigrating to Canada. It was his wife then who went round the parish trying to raise the
few extra pounds that he was to contribute. That was a case to fill comfortable people with
uncomfortable shame. The woman, not more than five-and-twenty, would have been strikingly handsome
if she had ever in her life had a fair chance; but as it was she looked half-starved, and she
had a cough which made it doubtful if she would ever live to follow her husband to Canada.
Still, she was playing her part as the man's comrade. As soon as he could save enough money
he was to send for her and her baby, she said; in the meantime she would have to earn her own
living by going out to day-work.

During the South African War there was many a woman in the village keeping things together
at home while the men were at the front. They had to work and earn money just as they do when
their men are beaten down at home. There was one woman who received from her husband a copy
of verses composed by him and his companions during their occupation of a block-house on the
veldt. Very proud of him, she took the verses to a printer, had them printed--just one single
copy--and then had the printed copy framed to hang on the bedroom wall in her cottage. Her
husband showed it to me there one day, mightily pleased with it and her.

Probably the people behind the counters at the provision shops in the town could tell many
interesting things about the relations between married people of this class, for it is quite
the common thing in the villages for a man and wife to lock up their cottage on a Saturday
evening, and go off with the children to do the week's shopping together. On a nice night the
town becomes thronged with them, and so do the shops, outside which, now and then, a passer-by
may notice little consultations going on, and husband or wife--sometimes one, sometimes the
other--handing over precious money to the other to be spent. And if it is rather painful to
see the faces grow so strained and anxious over such trifling sums, on the other hand the signs
of mutual confidence and support are comforting. Besides, anxiety is not the commonest note.
The majority of the people make a little weekly festivity of this Saturday night's outing;
they meet their friends in the street, have a chat, wind up with a visit to the public-house,
and so homewards at any time between seven and ten o'clock, trooping up the hill happily enough
as a rule. Now and then one comes across solitary couples making one another miserable. Thus
one night I heard a woman's voice in the dark, very tired and faint, say, "It's a long hill!"
to which the surly tones of a man replied: "'Ten't no longer than 'twas, is it?" Brutishness
like this, however, is quite the exception.

As a sample of what is normal, take the following scraps of talk overheard one summer night
some years ago. The people were late that night, and indeed, it was pleasant to be out. Not
as yet were there any of those street lamps along the road which now make all nights alike
dingy; but one felt as if walking into the unspoiled country. For though it was after ten,
and the sky overcast, still one could see very clearly the glimmering road and the hedgerows
in the soft midsummer twilight. Enjoying this tranquillity, I passed by a man and woman with
two children, and heard the man say invitingly: "Shall I carry the basket?" The wife answered:
"'E en't 'eavy, Bill, thanks.... Only I got this 'ere little Rosy to git along."

Her voice sounded gentle and cheerful, and I tried to hear more, checking my pace. But the
children were walking too slowly. I was getting out of earshot, missing the drift of the peaceful-sounding
chatter, when presently the woman, as if turning to the other child, said more loudly: "Come
along, Sonny!" The man added: "Hullo, old man! Come along! You'll be left behind!"

The children began prattling; their father and mother laughed; but I was leaving them farther
and farther behind. Then, however, some other homeward-goer overtook the little family. For
the talk grew suddenly louder, the woman beginning cheerily: "Hullo, Mr. Weatherall! 'Ow's
your poor wife?... I didn't see as 'twas you, 'till this here little Rosy said...."

What Rosy had said I failed to catch. I missed also what followed, leading up to the woman's
endearing remark: "This 'ere little Rosy, she's a reg'lar gal for cherries!" The neighbour
seemed to say something; then the husband; then the neighbour again. And at that there came
a burst of laughter, loudest from the woman, and Mr. Weatherall asked: "Didn't you never hear
that afore?"

The woman, laughing still, was emphatic: "No; I'll take my oath as I never knowed that."

"Well, you knows it now, don't ye?"

"I ain't sure yet. I ain't had time to consider."

After that the subject changed. I heard the woman say: "I've had six gals an' only one boy--one
out o' seven. Alice is out courtin'"; and then they seemed to get on to the question of ways
and means. The last words that reached me were "Fivepence ... tuppence-ha'penny;" but still,
when I could no longer catch any details at all, the voices continued to sound pleasantly good-tempered.

IV

MANIFOLD TROUBLES

