  Then I prepared to cross-question him rigidly, for this thing was getting serious.
The watch had cost two hundred dollars originally, and I seemed to have paid out two or three
thousand for repairs.  While I waited and looked on I presently recognized in this watchmaker
an old acquaintance--a steamboat engineer of other days, and not a good engineer, either. 
He examined all the parts carefully, just as the other watchmakers had done, and then delivered
his verdict with the same confidence of manner.

He said:

"She makes too much steam-you want to hang the monkey-wrench on the safety-valve!"

I brained him on the spot, and had him buried at my own expense.

My uncle William (now deceased, alas!) used to say that a good horse was, a good horse until
it had run away once, and that a good watch was a good watch until the repairers got a chance
at it.  And he used to wonder what became of all the unsuccessful tinkers, and gunsmiths, and
shoemakers, and engineers, and blacksmiths; but nobody could ever tell him.

POLITICAL ECONOMY

     Political Economy is the basis of all good government.  The wisest
     men of all ages have brought to bear upon this subject the--

[Here I was interrupted and informed that a stranger wished to see me down at the door.  I
went and confronted him, and asked to know his business, struggling all the time to keep a
tight rein on my seething political-economy ideas, and not let them break away from me or get
tangled in their harness.  And privately I wished the stranger was in the bottom of the canal
with a cargo of wheat on top of him.  I was all in a fever, but he was cool.  He said he was
sorry to disturb me, but as he was passing he noticed that I needed some lightning-rods.  I
said, "Yes, yes--go on--what about it?"  He said there was nothing about it, in particular--nothing
except that he would like to put them up for me. I am new to housekeeping; have been used to
hotels and boarding-houses all my life.  Like anybody else of similar experience, I try to
appear (to strangers) to be an old housekeeper; consequently I said in an offhand way that
I had been intending for some time to have six or eight lightning-rods put up, but--The stranger
started, and looked inquiringly at me, but I was serene.  I thought that if I chanced to make
any mistakes, he would not catch me by my countenance.  He said he would rather have my custom
than any man's in town.  I said, "All right," and started off to wrestle with my great subject
again, when he called me back and said it would be necessary to know exactly how many "points"
I wanted put up, what parts of the house I wanted them on, and what quality of rod I preferred.
It was close quarters for a man not used to the exigencies of housekeeping; but I went through
creditably, and he probably never suspected that I was a novice.  I told him to put up eight
"points," and put them all on the roof, and use the best quality of rod. He said he could furnish
the "plain" article at 20 cents a foot; "coppered," 25 cents; "zinc-plated spiral-twist," at
30 cents, that would stop a streak of lightning any time, no matter where it was bound, and
"render its errand harmless and its further progress apocryphal."  I said apocryphal was no
slouch of a word, emanating from the source it did, but, philology aside, I liked the spiral-twist
and would take that brand. Then he said he could make two hundred and fifty feet answer; but
to do it right, and make the best job in town of it, and attract the admiration of the just
and the unjust alike, and compel all parties to say they never saw a more symmetrical and hypothetical
display of lightning-rods since they were born, he supposed he really couldn't get along without
four hundred, though he was not vindictive, and trusted he was willing to try.  I said, go
ahead and use four hundred, and make any kind of a job he pleased out of it, but let me get
back to my work.  So I got rid of him at last; and now, after half an hour spent in getting
my train of political-economy thoughts coupled together again, I am ready to go on once more.]

     richest treasures of their genius, their experience of life, and
     their learning.  The great lights of commercial jurisprudence,
     international confraternity, and biological deviation, of all ages,
     all civilizations, and all nationalities, from Zoroaster down to
     Horace Greeley, have--

[Here I was interrupted again, and required to go down and confer further with that lightning-rod
man.  I hurried off, boiling and surging with prodigious thoughts wombed in words of such majesty
that each one of them was in itself a straggling procession of syllables that might be fifteen
minutes passing a given point, and once more I confronted him--he so calm and sweet, I so hot
and frenzied.  He was standing in the contemplative attitude of the Colossus of Rhodes, with
one foot on my infant tuberose, and the other among my pansies, his hands on his hips, his
hat-brim tilted forward, one eye shut and the other gazing critically and admiringly in the
direction of my principal chimney.  He said now there was a state of things to make a man glad
to be alive; and added, "I leave it to you if you ever saw anything more deliriously picturesque
than eight lightning-rods on one chimney?"  I said I had no present recollection of anything
that transcended it.  He said that in his opinion nothing on earth but Niagara Falls was superior
to it in the way of natural scenery.  All that was needed now, he verily believed, to make
my house a perfect balm to the eye, was to kind of touch up the other chimneys a little, and
thus "add to the generous 'coup d'oeil' a soothing uniformity of achievement which would allay
the excitement naturally consequent upon the 'coup d'etat.'"  I asked him if he learned to
talk out of a book, and if I could borrow it anywhere?  He smiled pleasantly, and said that
his manner of speaking was not taught in books, and that nothing but familiarity with lightning
could enable a man to handle his conversational style with impunity.  He then figured up an
estimate, and said that about eight more rods scattered about my roof would about fix me right,
and he guessed five hundred feet of stuff would do it; and added that the first eight had got
a little the start of him, so to speak, and used up a mere trifle of material more than he
had calculated on--a hundred feet or along there.  I said I was in a dreadful hurry, and I
wished we could get this business permanently mapped out, so that I could go on with my work.
He said, "I could have put up those eight rods, and marched off about my business--some men
would have done it. But no; I said to myself, this man is a stranger to me, and I will die
before I'll wrong him; there ain't lightning-rods enough on that house, and for one I'll never
stir out of my tracks till I've done as I would be done by, and told him so.  Stranger, my
duty is accomplished; if the recalcitrant and dephlogistic messenger of heaven strikes your--"
"There, now, there," I said, "put on the other eight--add five hundred feet of spiral-twist--do
anything and everything you want to do; but calm your sufferings, and try to keep your feelings
where you can reach them with the dictionary.  Meanwhile, if we understand each other now,
I will go to work again."

I think I have been sitting here a full hour this time, trying to get back to where I was when
my train of thought was broken up by the last interruption; but I believe I have accomplished
it at last, and may venture to proceed again.]

     wrestled with this great subject, and the greatest among them have
     found it a worthy adversary, and one that always comes up fresh and
     smiling after every throw.  The great Confucius said that he would
     rather be a profound political economist than chief of police.
     Cicero frequently said that political economy was the grandest
     consummation that the human mind was capable of consuming; and even
     our own Greeley had said vaguely but forcibly that "Political--

[Here the lightning-rod man sent up another call for me.  I went down in a state of mind bordering
on impatience.  He said he would rather have died than interrupt me, but when he was employed
to do a job, and that job was expected to be done in a clean, workmanlike manner, and when
it was finished and fatigue urged him to seek the rest and recreation he stood so much in need
of, and he was about to do it, but looked up and saw at a glance that all the calculations
had been a little out, and if a thunder-storm were to come up, and that house, which he felt
a personal interest in, stood there with nothing on earth to protect it but sixteen lightning-rods--"Let
us have peace!" I shrieked.  "Put up a hundred and fifty!  Put some on the kitchen!  Put a
dozen on the barn!  Put a couple on the cow!  Put one on the cook!--scatter them all over the
persecuted place till it looks like a zinc-plated, spiral-twisted, silver-mounted canebrake!
Move!  Use up all the material you can get your hands on, and when you run out of lightning-rods
put up ramrods, cam-rods, stair-rods, piston-rods--anything that will pander to your dismal
appetite for artificial scenery, and bring respite to my raging brain and healing to my lacerated
soul!"  Wholly unmoved--further than to smile sweetly--this iron being simply turned back his
wrist-bands daintily, and said he would now proceed to hump himself.  Well, all that was nearly
three hours ago. It is questionable whether I am calm enough yet to write on the noble theme
of political economy, but I cannot resist the desire to try, for it is the one subject that
is nearest to my heart and dearest to my brain of all this world's philosophy.]

     economy is heaven's best boon to man."  When the loose but gifted
     Byron lay in his Venetian exile he observed that, if it could be
     granted him to go back and live his misspent life over again, he
     would give his lucid and unintoxicated intervals to the composition,
     not of frivolous rhymes, but of essays upon political economy.
     Washington loved this exquisite science; such names as Baker,
     Beckwith, Judson, Smith, are imperishably linked with it; and even
     imperial Homer, in the ninth book of the Iliad, has said:

                    Fiat justitia, ruat coelum,
                    Post mortem unum, ante bellum,
                    Hic facet hoc, ex-parte res,
                    Politicum e-conomico est.

     The grandeur of these conceptions of the old poet, together with the
     felicity of the wording which clothes them, and the sublimity of the
     imagery whereby they are illustrated, have singled out that stanza,
     and made it more celebrated than any that ever--

["Now, not a word out of you--not a single word.  Just state your bill and relapse into impenetrable
silence for ever and ever on these premises.  Nine hundred, dollars?  Is that all?  This check
for the amount will be honored at any respectable bank in America.  What is that multitude
of people gathered in the street for?  How?--'looking at the lightning-rods!'  Bless my life,
did they never see any lightning-rods before?  Never saw 'such a stack of them on one establishment,'
did I understand you to say?  I will step down and critically observe this popular ebullition
of ignorance."]

THREE DAYS LATER.--We are all about worn out.  For four-and-twenty hours our bristling premises
were the talk and wonder of the town.  The theaters languished, for their happiest scenic inventions
were tame and commonplace compared with my lightning-rods.  Our street was blocked night and
day with spectators, and among them were many who came from the country to see.  It was a blessed
relief on the second day when a thunderstorm came up and the lightning began to "go for" my
house, as the historian Josephus quaintly phrases it.  It cleared the galleries, so to speak.
In five minutes there was not a spectator within half a mile of my place; but all the high
houses about that distance away were full, windows, roof, and all.  And well they might be,
for all the falling stars and Fourth-of-July fireworks of a generation, put together and rained
down simultaneously out of heaven in one brilliant shower upon one helpless roof, would not
have any advantage of the pyrotechnic display that was making my house so magnificently conspicuous
in the general gloom of the storm.

By actual count, the lightning struck at my establishment seven hundred and sixty-four times
in forty minutes, but tripped on one of those faithful rods every time, and slid down the spiral-twist
and shot into the earth before it probably had time to be surprised at the way the thing was
done. And through all that bombardment only one patch of slates was ripped up, and that was
because, for a single instant, the rods in the vicinity were transporting all the lightning
they could possibly accommodate.  Well, nothing was ever seen like it since the world began.
For one whole day and night not a member of my family stuck his head out of the window but
he got the hair snatched off it as smooth as a billiard-ball; and; if the reader will believe
me, not one of us ever dreamt of stirring abroad.  But at last the awful siege came to an end-because
there was absolutely no more electricity left in the clouds above us within grappling distance
of my insatiable rods.  Then I sallied forth, and gathered daring workmen together, and not
a bite or a nap did we take till the premises were utterly stripped of all their terrific armament
except just three rods on the house, one on the kitchen, and one on the barn--and, behold,
these remain there even unto this day.  And then, and not till then, the people ventured to
use our street again. I will remark here, in passing, that during that fearful time I did not
continue my essay upon political economy.  I am not even yet settled enough in nerve and brain
to resume it.

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.--Parties having need of three thousand two hundred and eleven feet
of best quality zinc-plated spiral-twist lightning-rod stuff, and sixteen hundred and thirty-one
silver-tipped points, all in tolerable repair (and, although much worn by use, still equal
to any ordinary emergency), can hear of a bargains by addressing the publisher.

THE JUMPING FROG [written about 1865]

IN ENGLISH.  THEN IN FRENCH.  THEN CLAWED BACK INTO A CIVILIZED LANGUAGE ONCE MORE BY PATIENT,
UNREMUNERATED TOIL.

Even a criminal is entitled to fair play; and certainly when a man who has done no harm has
been unjustly treated, he is privileged to do his best to right himself.  My attention has
just beep called to an article some three years old in a French Magazine entitled, 'Revue des
Deux Mondes' (Review of Some Two Worlds), wherein the writer treats of "Les Humoristes Americaines"
(These Humorist Americans).  I am one of these humorists American dissected by him, and hence
the complaint I am making.

This gentleman's article is an able one (as articles go, in the French, where they always tangle
up everything to that degree that when you start into a sentence you never know whether you
are going to come out alive or not).  It is a very good article and the writer says all manner
of kind and complimentary things about me--for which I am sure thank him with all my heart;
but then why should he go and spoil all his praise by one unlucky experiment?  What I refer
to is this: he says my jumping Frog is a funny story, but still he can't see why it should
ever really convulse any one with laughter--and straightway proceeds to translate it into French
in order to prove to his nation that there is nothing so very extravagantly funny about it.
Just there is where my complaint originates.  He has not translated it at all; he has simply
mixed it all up; it is no more like the jumping Frog when he gets through with it than I am
like a meridian of longitude.  But my mere assertion is not proof; wherefore I print the French
version, that all may see that I do not speak falsely; furthermore, in order that even the
unlettered may know my injury and give me their compassion, I have been at infinite pains and
trouble to retranslate this French version back into English; and to tell the truth I have
well-nigh worn myself out at it, having scarcely rested from my work during five days and nights.
I cannot speak the French language, but I can translate very well, though not fast, I being
self-educated.  I ask the reader to run his eye over the original English version of the jumping
Frog, and then read the French or my retranslation, and kindly take notice how the Frenchman
has riddled the grammar.  I think it is the worst I ever saw; and yet the French are called
a polished nation.  If I had a boy that put sentences together as they do, I would polish him
to some purpose.

However, lacking both time and inclination, I did not wait to hear about the afflicted cow,
but took my leave.

Now let the learned look upon this picture and say if iconoclasm can further go:

[From the Revue des Deux Mondes, of July 15th, 1872.]

          .......................

THE JUMPING FROG

"--Il y avait, une fois ici un individu connu sous le nom de Jim Smiley: c'etait dans l'hiver
de 49, peut-etre bien au printemps de 50, je ne me reappelle pas exactement.  Ce qui me fait
croire que c'etait l'un ou l'autre, c'est que je me souviens que le grand bief n'etait pas
acheve lorsqu'il arriva au camp pour la premiere fois, mais de toutes facons il etait l'homme
le plus friand de paris qui se put voir, pariant sur tout ce qui se presentaat, quand il pouvait
trouver un adversaire, et, quand n'en trouvait pas il passait du cote oppose.  Tout ce qui
convenaiat l'autre lui convenait; pourvu qu'il eut un pari, Smiley etait satisfait. Et il avait
une chance! une chance inouie:  presque toujours il gagnait. It faut dire qu'il etait toujours
pret a'exposer, qu'on ne pouvait mentionner la moindre chose sans que ce gaillard offrit de
parier la-dessus n'importe quoi et de prendre le cote que l'on voudrait, comme je vous le disais
tout a l'heure.  S'il y avait des courses, vous le trouviez riche ou ruine a la fin; s'il y
avait un combat de chiens, il apportait son enjeu; il l'apportait pour un combat de chats,
pour un combat de coqs;--parbleu! si vous aviez vu deux oiseaux sur une haie il vous aurait
offert de parier lequel s'envolerait le premier, et s'il y aviat 'meeting' au camp, il venait
parier regulierement pour le cure Walker, qu'il jugeait etre le meilleur predicateur des environs,
et qui l'etait en effet, et un brave homme.  Il aurai rencontre une punaise de bois en chemin,
qu'il aurait parie sur le temps qu'il lui faudrait pour aller ou elle voudrait aller, et si
vous l'aviez pris au mot, it aurait suivi la punaise jusqu'au Mexique, sans se soucier d'aller
si loin, ni du temps qu'il y perdrait.  Une fois la femme du cure Walker fut tres malade pendant
longtemps, il semblait qu'on ne la sauverait pas; mai un matin le cure arrive, et Smiley lui
demande comment ella va et il dit qu'elle est bien mieux, grace a l'infinie misericorde tellement
mieux qu'avec la benediction de la Providence elle s'en tirerait, et voila que, sans y penser,
Smiley repond:--Eh bien! ye gage deux et demi qu'elle mourra tout de meme.

"Ce Smiley avait une jument que les gars appelaient le bidet du quart d'heure, mais seulement
pour plaisanter, vous comprenez, parse que, bien entendu, elle etait plus vite que ca!  Et
il avait coutume de gagner de l'argent avec cette bete, quoi-qu'elle fut poussive, cornarde,
toujours prise d'asthme, de colique ou de consomption, ou de quelque chose d'approchant. On
lui donnait 2 ou 300 'yards' au depart, puffs on la depassait sans peine; mais jamais a la
fin elle ne manquait de s'echauffer, de s'exasperer et elle arrivait, s'ecartant, se defendant,
ses jambes greles en l'ai devant les obstacles, quelquefois les evitant et faisant avec cela
plus de poussiare qu'aucun cheval, plus de bruit surtout avec ses eternumens et reniflemens.---crac!
elle arrivaat donc toujour premiere d'une tete, aussi juste qu'on peut le mesurer.  Et il avait
un petit bouledogue qui, a le voir, ne valait pas un sou; on aurait cru que parier contre lui
c'etait voler, tant il etait ordinaire; mais aussitot les enjeux faits, il devenait un autre
chien.  Sa machoire inferieure commencait a ressortir comme un gaillard d'avant, ses dents
se decouvcraient brillantes commes des fournaises, et un chien pouvait le taquiner, l'exciter,
le mordre, le jeter deux ou trois fois par-dessus son epaule, Andre Jackson, c'etait le nom
du chien, Andre Jackson prenait cela tranquillement, comme s'il ne se fut jamais attendu a
autre chose, et quand les paris etaient doubles et redoubles contre lui, il vous saisissait
l'autre chien juste a l'articulation de la jambe de derriere, et il ne la lachait plus, non
pas qu'il la machat, vous concevez, mais il s'y serait tenu pendu jusqu'a ce qu'on jetat l'eponge
en l'air, fallut-il attendre un an.  Smiley gagnait toujours avec cette bete-la; malheureusement
ils ont fini par dresser un chien qui n'avait pas de pattes de derriere, parce qu'on les avait
sciees, et quand les choses furent au point qu'il voulait, et qu'il en vint a se jeter sur
son morceau favori, le pauvre chien comprit en un instant qu'on s'etait moque de lui, et que
l'autre le tenait.  Vous n'avez jamais vu personne avoir l'air plus penaud et plus decourage;
il ne fit aucun effort pour gagner le combat et fut rudement secoue, de sorte que, regardant
Smiley comme pour lui dire:--Mon coeur est brise, c'est to faute; pourquoi m'avoir livre a
un chien qui n'a pas de pattes de derriere, puisque c'est par la que je les bats?--il s'en
alla en clopinant, et se coucha pour mourir. Ah! c'etait un bon chien, cet Andre Jackson, et
il se serait fait un nom, s'il avait vecu, car il y avait de l'etoffe en lui, il avait du genie,
je la sais, bien que de grandes occasions lui aient manque; mais il est impossible de supposer
qu'un chien capable de se battre comme lui, certaines circonstances etant donnees, ait manque
de talent.  Je me sens triste toutes les fois que je pense a son dernier combat et au denoument
qu'il a eu.  Eh bien! ce Smiley nourrissait des terriers a rats, et des coqs combat, et des
chats, et toute sorte de choses, au point qu'il etait toujours en mesure de vous tenir tete,
et qu'avec sa rage de paris on n'avait plus de repos. Il attrapa un jour une grenouille et
l'emporta chez lui, disant qu'il pretendait faire son Education; vous me croirez si vous voulez,
mais pendant trois mois il n'a rien fait que lui apprendre a sauter dans une cour retire de
sa maison. Et je vous reponds qu'il avait reussi.  Il lui donnait un petit coup par derriere,
et l'instant d'apres vous voyiez la grenouille tourner en l'air comme un beignet au-dessus
de la poele, faire une culbute, quelquefois deux, lorsqu'elle etait bien partie, et retomber
sur ses pattes comme un chat.  Il l'avait dressee dans l'art de gober des mouches, er l'y exercait
continuellement, si bien qu'une mouche, du plus loin qu'elle apparaissait, etait une mouche
perdue. Smiley avait coutume de dire que tout ce qui manquait a une grenouille, c'etait l'education,
qu'avec l'education elle pouvait faire presque tout, et je le crois.  Tenez, je l'ai vu poser
Daniel Webster la sur se plancher,--Daniel Webster etait le nom de la grenouille,--et lui chanter:
Des mouches! Daniel, des mouches!--En un clin d'oeil, Daniel avait bondi et saisi une mouche
ici sur le comptoir, puis saute de nouveau par terre, ou il restait vraiment a se gratter la
tete avec sa patte de derriere, comme s'il n'avait pas eu la moindre idee de sa superiorite.
Jamais vous n'avez grenouille vu de aussi modeste, aussi naturelle, douee comme elle l'etait!
Et quand il s'agissait de sauter purement et simplement sur terrain plat, elle faisait plus
de chemin en un saut qu'aucune bete de son espece que vous puissiez connaitre. Sauter a plat,
c'etait son fort! Quand il s'agissait de cela, Smiley en tassait les enjeux sur elle tant qu'il
lui, restait un rouge liard. Il faut le reconnaitre, Smiley etait monstrueusement fier de sa
grenouille, et il en avait le droit, car des gens qui avaient voyage, qui avaient tout vu,
disaient qu'on lui ferait injure de la comparer a une autre; de facon que Smiley gardait Daniel
dans une petite boite a claire-voie qu'il emportait parfois a la Ville pour quelque pari.

"Un jour, un individu etranger au camp l'arrete aver sa boite et lui dit:--Qu'est-ce que vous
avez donc serre la dedans?

"Smiley dit d'un air indifferent:--Cela pourrait etre un perroquet ou un serin, mais ce n'est
rien de pareil, ce n'est qu'une grenouille.

"L'individu la prend, la regarde avec soin, la tourne d'un cote et de l'autre puis il dit.--Tiens!
en effet!  A quoi estelle bonne?

"--Mon Dieu! repond Smiley, toujours d'un air degage, elle est bonne pour une chose a mon avis,
elle peut battre en sautant toute grenouille du comte de Calaveras.

"--Possible qua vous ne le voyiez pat, dit Smiley, possible que vous vous entendiez en grenouilles,
possible que vous ne vous y entendez point, possible qua vous avez de l'experience, et possible
que vous ne soyez qu'un amateur.  De toute maniere, je parie quarante dollars qu'elle battra
en sautant n'importe quelle grenouille du comte de Calaveras.

"L'individu reflechit one seconde et dit comma attriste:--Je ne suis qu'un etranger ici, je
n'ai pas de grenouille; mais, si j'en avais une, je tiendrais le pari.

"--Fort bien! repond Smiley.  Rien de plus facile. Si vous voulez tenir ma boite one minute,
j'irai vous chercher une grenouille.--Voile donc l'individu qui garde la boite, qui met ses
quarante dollars sur ceux de Smiley et qui attend.  Il attend assez longtemps, reflechissant
tout seul, et figurez-vous qu'il prend Daniel, lui ouvre la bouche de force at avec une cuiller
a the l'emplit de menu plomb de chasse, mail l'emplit jusqu'au menton, puis il le pose par
terre.  Smiley pendant ce temps etait a barboter dans une mare.  Finalement il attrape une
grenouille, l'apporte cet individu et dit:--Maintenant, si vous etes pret, mettez-la tout contra
Daniel, avec leurs pattes de devant sur la meme ligne, et je donnerai le signal; puis il ajoute:--Un,
deux, trois, sautez!

"Lui et l'individu touchent leurs grenouilles par derriere, et la grenouille neuve se met h
sautiller, mais Daniel se souleve lourdement, hausse les epaules ainsi, comma un Francais;
a quoi bon? il ne pouvait bouger, il etait plante solide comma une enclume, il n'avancait pas
plus que si on l'eut mis a l'ancre.

"Smiley se gratta longtemps la tete, les yeux fixes Sur Daniel; jusqu'a ce qu'enfin il dit:--je
me demande comment diable il se fait qua cette bite ait refuse, . . . Est-ce qu'elle aurait
quelque chose? . . . On croirait qu'elle est enflee.

"Il empoigne Daniel par la peau du coo, le souleve et dit:--Le loup me croque, s'il ne pese
pas cinq livres.

"Il le retourne, et le malheureux crache deux poignees de plomb.  Quand Smiley reconnut ce
qui en etait, il fut comme fou.  Vous le voyez d'ici poser sa grenouille par terra et courir
apres cet individu, mais il ne le rattrapa jamais, et ...."

[Translation of the above back from the French:]

THE FROG JUMPING OF THE COUNTY OF CALAVERAS

It there was one time here an individual known under the name of Jim Smiley; it was in the
winter of '89, possibly well at the spring of '50, I no me recollect not exactly.  This which
me makes to believe that it was the one or the other, it is that I shall remember that the
grand flume is not achieved when he arrives at the camp for the first time, but of all sides
he was the man the most fond of to bet which one have seen, betting upon all that which is
presented, when he could find an adversary; and when he not of it could not, he passed to the
side opposed.  All that which convenienced to the other to him convenienced also; seeing that
he had a bet Smiley was satisfied.  And he had a chance! a chance even worthless; nearly always
he gained.  It must to say that he was always near to himself expose, but one no could mention
the least thing without that this gaillard offered to bet the bottom, no matter what, and to
take the side that one him would, as I you it said all at the hour (tout a l'heure).  If it
there was of races, you him find rich or ruined at the end; if it, here is a combat of dogs,
he bring his bet; he himself laid always for a combat of cats, for a combat of cocks --by-blue!
If you have see two birds upon a fence, he you should have offered of to bet which of those
birds shall fly the first; and if there is meeting at the camp (meeting au camp) he comes to
bet regularly for the cure Walker, which he judged to be the best predicator of the neighborhood
(predicateur des environs) and which he was in effect, and a brave man.  He would encounter
a bug of wood in the road, whom he will bet upon the time which he shall take to go where she
would go--and if you him have take at the word, he will follow the bug as far as Mexique, without
himself caring to go so far; neither of the time which he there lost.

This Smiley had an animal which the boys called the nag of the quarter of hour, but solely
for pleasantry, you comprehend, because, well understand, she was more fast as that! [Now why
that exclamation?--M. T.] And it was custom of to gain of the silver with this beast, notwithstanding
she was poussive, cornarde, always taken of asthma, of colics or of consumption, or something
of approaching.  One him would give two or three hundred yards at the departure, then one him
passed without pain; but never at the last she not fail of herself echauffer, of herself exasperate,
and she arrives herself ecartant, se defendant, her legs greles in the air before the obstacles,
sometimes them elevating and making with this more of dust than any horse, more of noise above
with his eternumens and reniflemens--crac! she arrives then always first by one head, as just
as one can it measure.  And he had a small bulldog (bouledogue!) who, to him see, no value,
not a cent; one would believe that to bet against him it was to steal, so much he was ordinary;
but as soon as the game made, she becomes another dog.  Her jaw inferior commence to project
like a deck of before, his teeth themselves discover brilliant like some furnaces, and a dog
could him tackle (le taquiner), him excite, him murder (le mordre), him throw two or three
times over his shoulder, Andre Jackson--this was the name of the dog--Andre Jackson takes that
tranquilly, as if he not himself was never expecting other thing, and when the bets were doubled
and redoubled against him, he you seize the other dog just at the articulation of the leg of
behind, and he not it leave more, not that he it masticate, you conceive, but he himself there
shall be holding during until that one throws the sponge in the air, must he wait a year. 
Smiley gained always with this beast-la; unhappily they have finished by elevating a dog who
no had not of feet of behind, because one them had sawed; and when things were at the point
that he would, and that he came to himself throw upon his morsel favorite, the poor dog comprehended
in an instant that he himself was deceived in him, and that the other dog him had.  You no
have never seen person having the air more penaud and more discouraged; he not made no effort
to gain the combat, and was rudely shucked. He deposited his frog by the earth and ran after
that individual, but he not him caught never.

Such is the jumping Frog, to the distorted French eye.  I claim that I never put together such
an odious mixture of bad grammar and delirium tremens in my life.  And what has a poor foreigner
like me done, to be abused and misrepresented like this?  When I say, "Well, I don't see no
pints about that frog that's any better'n any other frog," is it kind, is it just, for this
Frenchman to try to make it appear that I said, "Eh bien! I no saw not that that frog had nothing
of better than each frog"? I have no heart to write more.  I never felt so about anything before.

HARTFORD, March, 1875.  That is all for today, I believe.  In case of accident, go to Lancet,
the surgeon, downstairs.  Tennesseean journalism is too stirring for me."

After which we parted with mutual regret, and I took apartments at the hospital.

THE STORY OF THE BAD LITTLE BOY--[Written about 1865]

Once there was a bad little boy whose name was Jim--though, if you will notice, you will find
that bad little boys are nearly always called James in your Sunday-school books.  It was strange,
but still it was true, that this one was called Jim.

He didn't have any sick mother, either--a sick mother who was pious and had the consumption,
and would be glad to lie down in the grave and be at rest but for the strong love she bore
her boy, and the anxiety she felt that the world might be harsh and cold toward him when she
was gone. Most bad boys in the Sunday books are named James, and have sick mothers, who teach
them to say, "Now, I lay me down," etc., and sing them to sleep with sweet, plaintive voices,
and then kiss them good night, and kneel down by the bedside and weep.  But it was different
with this fellow. He was named Jim, and there wasn't anything the matter with his mother --no
consumption, nor anything of that kind.  She was rather stout than otherwise, and she was not
pious; moreover, she was not anxious on Jim's account.  She said if he were to break his neck
it wouldn't be much loss. She always spanked Jim to sleep, and she never kissed him good night;
on the contrary, she boxed his ears when she was ready to leave him.

