AMERICAN WOMAN'S HOME: OR, PRINCIPLES OF DOMESTIC SCIENCE;

BEING A GUIDE TO THE FORMATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ECONOMICAL, HEALTHFUL, BEAUTIFUL, AND CHRISTIAN
HOMES.

BY CATHERINE E. BEECHER AND HARRIET BEECHER STOWE

TO THE WOMEN OF AMERICA, IN WHOSE HANDS REST THE REAL DESTINIES OF THE REPUBLIC, AS MOULDED
BY THE EARLY TRAINING AND PRESERVED AMID THE MATURER INFLUENCES OF HOME, THIS VOLUME IS AFFECTIONATELY
INSCRIBED.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

INTRODUCTION.

The chief cause of woman's disabilities and sufferings, that women are not trained, as men
are, for their peculiar duties--Aim of this volume to elevate the honor and remuneration of
domestic employment--Woman's duties, and her utter lack of training for them--Qualifications
of the writers of this volume to teach the matters proposed--Experience and study of woman's
work--Conviction of the dignity and importance of it--The great social and moral power in her
keeping--The principles and teachings of Jesus Christ the true basis of woman's rights and duties.

I.

THE CHRISTIAN FAMILY.

Object of the Family State--Duty of the elder and stronger to raise the younger, weaker, and
more ignorant to an equality of advantages--Discipline of the family--The example of Christ
one of self-sacrifice as man's elder brother--His assumption of a low estate--His manual labor--His
trade--Woman the chief minister of the family estate--Man the out-door laborer and provider--Labor
and self-denial in the mutual relations of home-life, honorable, healthful, economical, enjoyable,
and Christian.

II.

A CHRISTIAN HOUSE.

True wisdom in building a home--Necessity of economizing time, labor, and expense, by the close
packing of conveniences--Plan of a model cottage--Proportions--Piazzas--Entry--Stairs and landings--Large
room--Movable Screen--Convenient bedsteads--A good mattress--A cheap and convenient ottoman--Kitchen
and stove-room--The stove-room and its arrangements--Second or attic story--Closets, corner
dressing-tables, windows, balconies, water and earth-closets, shoe-bag, piece-bag--Basement,
closets, refrigerator, washtubs, etc.--Laundry--General wood-work--Conservatories-Average estimate
of cost.

III.

A HEALTHFUL HOME.

Household murder--Poisoning and starvation the inevitable result of bad air in public halls
and private homes--Good air as needful as good food--Structure and operations of the lungs
and their capillaries and air-cells--How people in a confined room will deprive the air of
oxygen and overload it with refuse carbonic acid-Starvation of the living body deprived of
oxygen--The skin and its twenty-eight miles of perspiratory tubes--Reciprocal action of plants
and animals--Historical examples of foul-air poisoning--Outward effects of habitual breathing
of bad air--Quotations from scientific authorities.

IV.

SCIENTIFIC DOMESTIC VENTILATION.

An open fireplace secures due ventilation--Evils of substituting air-tight stoves and furnace
heating--Tendency of warm air to rise and of cool air to sink--Ventilation of mines--Ignorance
of architects--Poor ventilation in most houses--Mode of ventilating laboratories--Creation
of a current of warm air in a flue open at top and bottom of the room--Flue to be built into
chimney: method of utilizing it.

V. STOVES, FURNACES, AND CHIMNEYS.

The general properties of heat, conduction, convection, radiation, reflection--Cooking done
by radiation the simplest but most wasteful mode: by convection (as in stoves and furnaces)
the cheapest--The range--The model cooking-stove--Interior arrangements and principles--Contrivances
for economizing heat, labor, time, fuel, trouble, and expense--Its durability, simplicity,
etc.--Chimneys: why they smoke and how to cure them--Furnaces: the dryness of their heat--Necessity
of moisture in warm air--How to obtain and regulate it.

VI.

HOME DECORATION.

Significance of beauty in making home attractive and useful in education--Exemplification of
economical and tasteful furniture--The carpet, lounge, lambrequins, curtains, ottomans, easy-chair,
centre-table--Money left for pictures--Chromes--Pretty frames-- Engravings--Statuettes--Educatory
influence of works of art--Natural adornments--Materials in the woods and fields--Parlor-gardens--Hanging
baskets--Fern-shields--Ivy, its beauty and tractableness--Window, with flowers, vines, and
pretty plants--Rustic stand for flowers--Ward's case--How to make it economically--Bowls and
vases of rustic work for growing plants--Ferns, how and when to gather them--General remarks.

VII.

THE CARE OF HEALTH.

Importance of some knowledge of the body and its needs--Fearful responsibility of entering
upon domestic duties in ignorance--The fundamental vital principle--Cell-life--Wonders of the
microscope --Cell-multiplication--Constant interplay of decay and growth necessary to life--The
red and white cells of the blood--Secreting and converting power--The nervous system--The brain
and the nerves--Structural arrangement and functions--The ganglionic system--The nervous fluid--Necessity
of properly apportioned exercise to nerves of sensation and of motion--Evils of excessive or
insufficient exercise--Equal development of the whole.

VIII.

DOMESTIC EXERCISE.

Connection of muscles and nerves--Microscopic cellular muscular fibre--Its mode of action--Dependence
on the nerves of voluntary and involuntary motion--How exercise of muscles quickens circulation
of the blood which maintains all the processes of life--Dependence of equilibrium upon proper
muscular activity--Importance of securing exercise that will interest the mind.

IX.

HEALTHFUL FOOD.

Apportionment of elements in food: carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, iron, silicon, etc.--Large
proportion of water in the human body--Dr. Holmes on the interchange of death and life--Constituent
parts of a kernel of wheat--Comparison of different kinds of food--General directions for diet--Hunger
the proper guide and guard of appetite--Evils of over-eating--Structure and operations of the
stomach--Times and quantity for eating--Stimulating and nourishing food--Americans eat too
much meat--Wholesome effects of Lenten fasting--Matter and manner of eating--Causes of debilitation
from misuse of food.

X.

HEALTHFUL DRINKS.

Stimulating drinks not necessary--Their immediate evil effects upon the human body and tendency
to grow into habitual desires--The arguments for and against stimulus--Microscopic revelations
of the effects of alcohol on the cellular tissue of the brain--Opinions of high scientific
authorities against its use--No need of resorting to stimulants either for refreshment, nourishment,
or pleasure--Tea and coffee an extensive cause of much nervous debility and suffering--Tend
to wasteful use in the kitchen--Are seldom agreeable at first to children--Are dangerous to
sensitive, nervous organizations, and should be at least regulated--Hot drinks unwholesome,
debilitating, and destructive to teeth, throat, and stomach--Warm drinks agreeable and not
unhealthful--Cold drinks not to be too freely used during meals--Drinking while eating always
injurious to digestion.

XI.

CLEANLINESS.

Health and comfort depend on cleanliness--Scientific treatment of the skin, the most complicated
organ of the body--Structure and arrangement of the skin, its layers, cells, nerves, capillaries,
absorbents, oil-tubes, perspiration-tubes, etc.--The mucous membrane--Phlegm--The secreting
organs--The liver, kidney, pancreas, salivary and lachrymal glands--Sympathetic connection
of all the bodily organs--Intimate connection of the skin with all the other organs--Proper
mode of treating the skin--Experiment showing happy effects of good treatment.

XII.

CLOTHING.

Fashion attacks the very foundation of the body, the bones--Bones composed of animal and mineral
elements--General construction and arrangement--Health of bones dependent on nourishment and
exercise of body--Spine--Distortions produced by tight dressing--Pressure of interior organs
upon each other and upon the bones--Displacement of stomach, diaphragm, heart, intestines,
and pelvic or lower organs--Women liable to peculiar distresses--A well-fitted jacket to replace
stiff corsets, supporting the bust above and the under skirts below--Dressing of young children--Safe
for a healthy child to wear as little clothing as will make it thoroughly comfortable--Nature
the guide--The very young and the very old need the most clothing.

XIII.

GOOD COOKING.

Bad cooking prevalent in America-Abundance of excellent material-- General management of food
here very wasteful and extravagant--Five great departments of Cookery--Bread-What it should
be, how to spoil and how to make it--Different modes of aeration--Baking--Evils of hot bread.--Butter-Contrast
between the butter of America and of European countries-How to make good butter.--Meat-Generally
used too newly killed--Lack of nicety in butcher's work--Economy of French butchery, curving,
and trimming--Modes of cooking meats--The frying-pan--True way of using it--The French art
of making delicious soups and stews--Vegetables--Their number and variety in America--The potato--How
to cook it, a simple yet difficult operation--Roasted, boiled, fried.--Tea--Warm table drinks
generally--Coffee--Tea-- Chocolate.--Confectionery--Ornamental cookery--Pastry, ices, jellies.

XIV.

EARLY RISING. A virtue peculiarly American and democratic--In aristocratic countries, labor
considered degrading--The hours of sunlight generally devoted to labor by the working classes
and to sleep by the indolent and wealthy--Sunlight necessary to health and growth whether of
vegetables or animals--Particularly needful for the sick--Substitution of artificial light
and heat, by night, a great waste of money--Eight hours' sleep enough--Excessive sleep debilitating--Early
rising necessary to a well-regulated family, to the amount of work to be done, to the community,
to schools, and to all classes in American society.

XV.

DOMESTIC MANNERS.

Good manners the expression of benevolence in personal intercourse--Serious defects in manners
of the Americans-Causes of abrupt manners to be found in American life--Want of clear discrimination
between men--Necessity for distinctions of superiority: and subordination--Importance that
young mothers should seriously endeavor to remedy this defect, while educating their children--Democratic
principal of equal rights to be applied, not to our own interests but to those of others--The
same courtesy to be extended to all classes--Necessary distinctions arising from mutual relations
to be observed--The strong to defer to the weak--Precedence yielded by men to women in America--Good
manners must be cultivated in early life--Mutual relations of husband and wife--Parents and
children--The rearing of children to courtesy--De Tocqueville on American manners.

XVI.

GOOD TEMPER IN THE HOUSEKEEPER.

Easier for a household under the guidance of an equable temper in the mistress---Dissatisfied
looks and sharp tones destroy the comfort of system, neatness, and economy--Considerations
to aid the housekeeper--Importance and dignity of her duties--Difficulties to be overcome--Good
policy to calculate beforehand upon the derangement of well-arranged plans--Object of housekeeping,
the comfort and well-being of the family--The end should not be sacrificed to secure the means--Possible
to refrain from angry tones--Mild speech most effective--Exemplification--Allowances to be
made for servants and children--Power of religion to impart dignity and importance to the ordinary
and petty details of domestic life.

XVII.

HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER.

XVIII.

XIX.

XX.

XXI.

THE CARE OF INFANTS.

Herbert Spencer on the treatment of offspring--Absurdity of undertaking to rear children without
any knowledge of how to do it--Foolish management of parents generally the cause of evils ascribed
to Providence--Errors of management during the first two years--Food of child and of mother--Warning
as to use of too much medicine--Fresh air-- Care of the skin--Dress--Sleep--Bathing--Change
of air--Habits--Dangers of the teething period--Constipation--Diarrhea--Teething--How to relieve
its dangers--Feverishness--Use of water.

XXII.

THE MANAGEMENT OF YOUNG CHILDREN.

Physical education of children--Animal diet to be avoided for the very young--Result of treatment
at Albany Orphan Asylum--Good ventilation of nurseries and schools--Moral training to consist
in forming habits of submission, self-denial, and benevolence-General suggestions--Extremes
of sternness and laxity to be avoided--Appreciation of childish desires and feelings--Sympathy--Partaking
in games and employments--Inculcation of principles preferable to multiplication of commands--Rewards
rather than penalties--Severe tones of voice--Children to be kept happy--Sensitive children--Self-denial--Deceit
and honesty--Immodesty and delicacy--Dreadful penalties consequent upon youthful impurities--Religious
training.

XXIII.

DOMESTIC AMUSEMENTS AND SOCIAL DUTIES.

Children need more amusement than older persons--Its object, to afford rest and recreation
to the mind and body--Example of Christ--No amusements to be introduced that will tempt the
weak or over-excite the young--Puritan customs--Work followed by play--Dramatic exercises,
dancing, and festivity wholesomely enjoyed--The nine o'clock bell--The drama and the dance--Card-playing--Novel-reading--Taste
for solid reading--Cultivation of fruits and flowers--Music--Collecting of shells, plants,
and minerals--Games--Exercise of mechanical skill for boys--Sewing, cutting, and fitting--General
suggestions--Social and domestic duties--Family attachments--Hospitality.

XXIV.

CARE OF THE AGED.

Preservation of the aged, designed to give opportunity for self-denial and loving care--Patience,
sympathy, and labor for them to be regarded as privileges in a family--The young should respect
and minister unto the aged--Treating them as valued members of the family--Engaging them in
domestic Games and sports--Reading aloud-Courteous attention to their opinions--Assistance
in retarding decay of faculties by helping them to exercise--Keeping up interest of the infirm
in domestic affairs--Great care to preserve animal heat--Ingratitude to the aged, its baseness--Chinese
regard for old age.

XXV.

THE CARE OF SERVANTS.

Origin of the Yankee term "help"--Days of good health and intelligent house-keeping--Growth
of wealth tends to multiply hired service-- American young women should be trained in housekeeping
for the guidance of ignorant and shiftless servants--Difficulty of teaching servants--Reaction
of society in favor of women's intellectuality, in danger of causing a new reaction--American
girls should do more work--Social estimate of domestic service--Dearth of intelligent domestic
help--Proper mode of treating servants--General rules and special suggestions--Hints from experience--Woman's
first "right," liberty to do what she can--Domestic duties not to be neglected for operations
in other spheres--Servants to be treated with respect--Errors of heartless and of too indulgent
employers--Mistresses of American families necessarily missionaries and instructors.

XXVI.

CARE Of THE SICK.

Prominence given to care and cure of the sick by our Saviour--Every woman should know what
to do in the case of illness--Simple remedies best--Fasting and perspiration--Evils of constipation--Modes
of relieving it--Remedies for colds--Unwise to tempt the appetite of the sick--Suggestion for
the sick-room--Ventilation--Needful articles--The room, bed, and person of the patient to be
kept neat--Care to preserve animal warmth--The sick, the delicate, the aged--Food always to
be carefully prepared and neatly served--Little modes of refreshment-- Implicit obedience to
the physician--Care in purchasing medicines-- Exhibition of cheerfulness, gentleness, and sympathy--Knowledge
and experience of mind--Lack of competent nurses--Failings of nurses-- Sensitiveness of the
sick--"Sisters of Charity," the reason why they are such excellent nurses--Illness in the family
a providential opportunity of training children to love and usefulness.

XXVII.

ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES.

Mode of treating cuts, wounds, severed arteries--Bad bruises to be bathed In hot water--Sprains
treated with hot fomentation and rest--Burns cured by creosote, wood-soot, or flour--Drowning;
most approved mode of treatment--Poisons and their antidotes--Soda, saleratus, potash, sulphuric
or oxalic acid, lime or baryta, iodine or iodide of potassium, prussic acid, antimony, arsenic,
lead, nitrate of silver, phosphorus, alcohol, tobacco, opium, strychnia--Bleeding at the lungs,
stomach, throat, nose--Accidents from lightning-- Stupefaction, from coal-gas or foul air--Fire--Fainting--Coolness
and presence of mind.

XXVIII.

SEWING, CUTTING, AND MENDING.

Different kinds of Stitch--Overstitch--Hems--Tucks--Fells--Gores-- Buttonholes--Whipping--Gathering--Darning--Basting--Sewing--Work-
baskets--To make a frock--Patterns--Fitting--Lining--Thin Silks-- Fitted and plain silks--Plaids--Stripes--Linen
and Cotton--How to buy--Shirts--Chemises--Night-gowns--Under-skirts--Mending--Silk dresses--Broadcloth--Hose--Shoes,
etc.--Bedding--Mattresses-- Sheeting--Bed-linen.

XXIX.

FIRES AND LIGHTS.

Wood fires--Shallow fireplaces--Utensils--The best wood for fires --How to measure a load--Splitting
and piling--Ashes--Cleaning up-- Stoves and grates--Ventilation--Moisture--Stove-pipe thimbles--
Anthracite coal--Bituminous coal--Care to be used in erecting stoves and pipes--Lights--Poor
economy to use bad light--Gas--Oil--Kerosene-- Points to be considered: Steadiness, Color,
Heat--Argand burners-- Dangers of kerosene--Tests of its safety and light-giving qualities--
Care of lamps--Utensils needed--Shades--Night-lamps--How to make candles--Moulded--Dipped--Rush-lights.

XXX.

THE CARE OF ROOMS.

Parlors--Cleansing--Furniture--Pictures--Hearths and jambs--Stains in marble--Carpets--Chambers
and bedrooms--Ventilation--How to make a bed properly--Servants should have single beds and
comfortable rooms--Kitchens--Light--Air--Cleanliness--How to make a cheap oil-cloth--The sink--Washing
dishes--Kitchen furniture--Crockery-- Ironware--Tinware--Basketware--Other articles--Closets--Cellars--Dryness
and cleanliness imperative necessities--Store-rooms--Modes of destroying insects and vermin.

XXXI.

THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS.

XXXII.

THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS.

Propagation of bulbous roots--Propagation of plants by shoots--By layers-Budding and grafting--The
outer and inner bark--Detailed description of operations--Seed-fruit--Stone-fruit--Rose hushes--
Ingrafting--Stock grafting--Pruning--Perpendicular shoots to be taken out, horizontal or curved
shoots retained--All fruit-buds coming out after midsummer to be rubbed off--Suckers--Pruning
to be done after sap is in circulation.--Thinning--Leaves to be removed when they shade fruit
near maturity--Fruit to be removed when too abundant for good quality--How to judge.

XXXIII.

THE CULTIVATION OF FRUIT.

A pleasant, easy, and profitable occupation--Soil for a nursery-- Planting of seeds--Transplanting--Pruning--Filberts--Figs--Currants--
Gooseberries--Raspberries--Strawberries--Grapes--Modes of preserving fruit trees--The yellows--Moths--Caterpillars--Brulure-Curculio--Canker-
worm.

XXXIV.

THE CARE OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.

Interesting association of animals with man, from childhood to age--Domestic animals apt to
catch the spirit of their masters-- Important necessities--Good feeding--Shelter--Cleanliness--Destruction
of parasitic vermin--Salt and water--Light--Exercise--Rule for breeding--Care of Horses: feeding,
grooming, special treatment--Cows: stabling, feed, calving, milking, tethering--Swine: naturally
cleanly, breeding, fresh water, charcoal, feeding--Sheep: winter treatment--Diet --Sorting--Use
of sheep in clearing land-Pasture--Hedges and fences--Poultry--Turkeys--Geese--Ducks--Fowls--Dairy
work generally--Bees--Care of domestic animals, occupation for women.

XXXV.

EARTH-CLOSETS.

Deodorization and preservation of excrementitious matter--The earth-closet--Waring's pamphlet--The
agricultural argument--Necessity of returning to the soil the elements taken from it--Earth-closet
based on power of clay and inorganic matter to absorb and retain odors and fertilizing matter--Its
construction--Mode of use--The ordinary privy--The commode or portable house-privy--Especial
directions: things to be observed--Repeated use of earth--Other advantages--Sick-rooms--House-labor--Cleanliness--Economy.

XXXVI.

WARMING AND VENTILATION.

Open fireplace nearest to natural mode by which earth is warmed and ventilated--Origin of diseases--Necessity
of pure air to life --Statistics--General principles of ventilation--Mode of Lewis Leeds--Ventilation
of buildings planned in this work--The pure-air conductor--The foul-air exhausting-flue--Stoves--Detailed
arrangements--Warming--Economy of time, labor, and expense in the cottage plan--After all schemes,
the open fireplace the best.

XXXVII.

CARE OF THE HOMELESS, THE HELPLESS, AND THE VICIOUS.

Recommendations of the Massachusetts Board of State Charities--Pauper and criminal classes
should be scattered in Christian homes instead of gathered into large institutions--Facts recently
published concerning the poor of New-York--Sufferings of the poor, deterioration of the rich--Christian
principles of benevolence--Plan for a Christian city house--Suggestions to wealthy and unoccupied
women--Roman Catholic works--Protestant duties--The highest mission of woman. XXXVIII.

THE CHRISTIAN NEIGHBORHOOD.

Spirit of Christian Missions--Present organizations under church direction too mechanical--Christian
family influence the true instrument of Gospel propagation--Practical suggestions for gathering
a Christian family in neglected neighborhoods--Plan of church, school-house, and family-dwelling
in one building--Mode of use for various purposes--Nucleus and gathering of a family--Christian
work for Christian women--Children--Orphans--Servants--Neglected ones--Household training--Roman
Catholic Nuns--The South--The West--The neglected interior of older States--Power of such examples--Rapid
spread of their influence--Anticipation of the glorious consummation to be hoped for--Prophecy
in the Scriptures--Cowper's noble vision of the millennial glory.

APPEAL TO AMERICAN WOMEN.

GLOSSARY OF WORDS AND REFERENCES

INTRODUCTION.

The authors of this volume, while they sympathize with every honest effort to relieve the disabilities
and sufferings of their sex, are confident that the chief cause of these evils is the fact
that the honor and duties of the family state are not duly appreciated, that women are not
trained for these duties as men are trained for their trades and professions, and that, as
the consequence, family labor is poorly done, poorly paid, and regarded as menial and disgraceful.

To be the nurse of young children, a cook, or a housemaid, is regarded as the lowest and last
resort of poverty, and one which no woman of culture and position can assume without loss of
caste and respectability.

It is the aim of this volume to elevate both the honor and the remuneration of all the employments
that sustain the many difficult and sacred duties of the family state, and thus to render each
department of woman's true profession as much desired and respected as are the most honored
professions of men.

When the other sex are to be instructed in law, medicine, or divinity, they are favored with
numerous institutions richly endowed, with teachers of the highest talents and acquirements,
with extensive libraries, and abundant and costly apparatus. With such advantages they devote
nearly ten of the best years of life to preparing themselves for their profession; and to secure
the public from unqualified members of these professions, none can enter them until examined
by a competent body, who certify to their due preparation for their duties.

Woman's profession embraces the care and nursing of the body in the critical periods of infancy
and sickness, the training of the human mind in the most impressible period of childhood, the
instruction and control of servants, and most of the government and economies of the family
state. These duties of woman are as sacred and important as any ordained to man; and yet no
such advantages for preparation have been accorded to her, nor is there any qualified body
to certify the public that a woman is duly prepared to give proper instruction in her profession.

This unfortunate want, and also the questions frequently asked concerning the domestic qualifications
of both the authors of this work, who have formerly written upon such topics, make it needful
to give some account of the advantages they have enjoyed in preparation for the important office
assumed as teachers of woman's domestic duties.

The sister whose name is subscribed is the eldest of nine children by her own mother, and of
four by her step-mother; and having a natural love for children, she found it a pleasure as
well as a duty to aid in the care of infancy and childhood. At sixteen, she was deprived of
a mother, who was remarkable not only for intelligence and culture, but for a natural taste
and skill in domestic handicraft. Her place was awhile filled by an aunt remarkable for her
habits of neatness and order, and especially for her economy. She was, in the course of time,
replaced by a stepmother, who had been accustomed to a superior style of housekeeping, and
was an expert in all departments of domestic administration.

Under these successive housekeepers, the writer learned not only to perform in the most approved
manner all the manual employments of domestic life, but to honor and enjoy these duties.

At twenty-three, she commenced the institution which ever since has flourished as "The Hartford
Female Seminary," where, at the age of twelve, the sister now united with her in the authorship
of this work became her pupil, and, after a few years, her associate. The removal of the family
to the West, and failure of health, ended a connection with the Hartford Seminary, and originated
a similar one in Cincinnati, of which the younger authoress of this work was associate principal
till her marriage.

At this time, the work on Domestic Economy, of which this volume may be called an enlarged
edition, although a great portion of it is entirely new, embodying the latest results of science,
was prepared by the writer as a part of the Massachusetts School Library, and has since been
extensively introduced as a text-book into public schools and higher female seminaries. It
was followed by its sequel, The Domestic Receipt-Book, widely circulated by the Harpers in
every State of the Union.

These two works have been entirely remodeled, former topics rewritten, and many new ones introduced,
so as to include all that is properly embraced in a complete Encyclopedia of Domestic Economy.

In addition to the opportunities mentioned, the elder sister, for many years, has been studying
the causes and the remedies for the decay of constitution and loss of health so increasingly
prevalent among American women, aiming to promote the establishment of endowed institutions,
in which women shall be properly trained for their profession, as both housekeepers and health-keepers.
What advantages have thus been received and the results thus obtained will appear in succeeding
pages.

During the upward progress of the age, and the advance of a more enlightened Christianity,
the writers of this volume have gained more elevated views of the true mission of woman--of
the dignity and importance of her distinctive duties, and of the true happiness which will
be the reward of a right appreciation of this mission, and a proper performance of these duties.

There is at the present time an increasing agitation of the public mind, evolving many theories
and some crude speculations as to woman's rights and duties. That there is a great social and
moral power in her keeping, which is now seeking expression by organization, is manifest, and
that resulting plans and efforts will involve some mistakes, some collisions, and some failures,
all must expect.

But to intelligent, reflecting, and benevolent women--whose faith rests on the character and
teachings of Jesus Christ--there are great principles revealed by Him, which in the end will
secure the grand result which He taught and suffered to achieve. It is hoped that in the following
pages these principles will be so exhibited and illustrated as to aid in securing those rights
and advantages which Christ's religion aims to provide for all, and especially for the most
weak and defenseless of His children.

CATHARINE E. BEECHER.

CHAPTER I.

THE CHRISTIAN FAMILY.

What, then, is the end designed by the family state which Jesus Christ came into this world
to secure?

It is to provide for the training of our race to the highest possible intelligence, virtue,
and happiness, by means of the self-sacrificing labors of the wise and good, and this with
chief reference to a future immortal existence. The distinctive feature of the family is self-sacrificing
labor of the stronger and wiser members to raise the weaker and more ignorant to equal advantages.
The father undergoes toil and self-denial to provide a home, and then the mother becomes a
self-sacrificing laborer to train its inmates. The useless, troublesome infant is served in
the humblest offices; while both parents unite in training it to an equality with themselves
in every advantage. Soon the older children become helpers to raise the younger to a level
with their own. When any are sick, those who are well become self-sacrificing ministers. When
the parents are old and useless, the children become their self-sacrificing servants.

Thus the discipline of the family state is one of daily self-devotion of the stronger and wiser
to elevate and support the weaker members. Nothing could be more contrary to its first principles
than for the older and more capable children to combine to secure to themselves the highest
advantages, enforcing the drudgeries on the younger, at the sacrifice of their equal culture.

Jesus Christ came to teach the fatherhood of God and consequent brotherhood of man. He came
as the "first-born Son" of God and the Elder Brother of man, to teach by example the self-sacrifice
by which the great family of man is to be raised to equality of advantages as children of God.
For this end, he "humbled himself" from the highest to the lowest place. He chose for his birthplace
the most despised village; for his parents the lowest in rank; for his trade, to labor with
his hands as a carpenter, being "subject to his parents" thirty years. And, what is very significant,
his trade was that which prepares the family home, as if he would teach that the great duty
of man is labor--to provide for and train weak and ignorant creatures. Jesus Christ worked
with his hands nearly thirty years, and preached less than three. And he taught that his kingdom
is exactly opposite to that of the world, where all are striving for the highest positions.
"Whoso will be great shall be your minister, and whoso will be chiefest shall be servant of all."

The family state then, is the aptest earthly illustration of the heavenly kingdom, and in it
woman is its chief minister. Her great mission is self-denial, in training its members to self-sacrificing
labors for the ignorant and weak: if not her own children, then the neglected children of her
Father in heaven. She is to rear all under her care to lay up treasures, not on earth, but
in heaven. All the pleasures of this life end here; but those who train immortal minds are
to reap the fruit of their labor through eternal ages.

To man is appointed the out-door labor--to till the earth, dig the mines, toil in the foundries,
traverse the ocean, transport merchandise, labor in manufactories, construct houses, conduct
civil, municipal, and state affairs, and all the heavy work, which, most of the day, excludes
him from the comforts of a home. But the great stimulus to all these toils, implanted in the
heart of every true man, is the desire for a home of his own, and the hopes of paternity. Every
man who truly lives for immortality responds to the beatitude, "Children are a heritage from
the Lord: blessed is the man that hath his quiver full of them!" The more a father and mother
live under the influence of that "immortality which Christ hath brought to light," the more
is the blessedness of rearing a family understood and appreciated. Every child trained aright
is to dwell forever in exalted bliss with those that gave it life and trained it for heaven.

The blessed privileges of the family state are not confined to those who rear children of their
own. Any woman who can earn a livelihood, as every woman should be trained to do, can take
a properly qualified female associate, and institute a family of her own, receiving to its
heavenly influences the orphan, the sick, the homeless, and the sinful, and by motherly devotion
train them to follow the self-denying example of Christ, in educating his earthly children
for true happiness in this life and for his eternal home.

And such is the blessedness of aiding to sustain a truly Christian home, that no one comes
so near the pattern of the All-perfect One as those who might hold what men call a higher place,
and yet humble themselves to the lowest in order to aid in training the young, "not as men-pleasers,
but as servants to Christ, with good-will doing service as to the Lord, and not to men." Such
are preparing for high places in the kingdom of heaven. "Whosoever will be chiefest among you,
let him be your servant."

It is often the case that the true humility of Christ is not understood. It was not in having
a low opinion of his own character and claims, but it was in taking a low place in order to
raise others to a higher. The worldling seeks to raise himself and family to an equality with
others, or, if possible, a superiority to them. The true follower of Christ comes down in order
to elevate others.

The maxims and institutions of this world have ever been antagonistic to the teachings and
example of Jesus Christ. Men toil for wealth, honor, and power, not as means for raising others
to an equality with themselves, but mainly for earthly, selfish advantages. Although the experience
of this life shows that children brought up to labor have the fairest chance for a virtuous
and prosperous life, and for hope of future eternal blessedness, yet it is the aim of most
parents who can do so, to lay up wealth that their children need not labor with the hands as
Christ did. And although exhorted by our Lord not to lay up treasure on earth, but rather the
imperishable riches which are gained in toiling to train the ignorant and reform the sinful,
as yet a large portion of the professed followers of Christ, like his first disciples, are
"slow of heart to believe."

Not less have the sacred ministries of the family state been undervalued and warred upon in
other directions; for example, the Romish Church has made celibacy a prime virtue, and given
its highest honors to those who forsake the family state as ordained by God. Thus came great
communities of monks and nuns, shut out from the love and labors of a Christian home; thus,
also, came the monkish systems of education, collecting the young in great establishments away
from the watch and care of parents, and the healthful and self-sacrificing labors of a home.
Thus both religion and education have conspired to degrade the family state.

Still more have civil laws and social customs been opposed to the principles of Jesus Christ.
It has ever been assumed that the learned, the rich, and the powerful are not to labor with
the hands, as Christ did, and as Paul did when he would "not eat any man's bread for naught,
but wrought with labor, not because we have not power "[to live without hand-work,]" but to
make ourselves an example."(2 Thess. 3.)

Instead of this, manual labor has been made dishonorable and unrefined by being forced on the
ignorant and poor. Especially has the most important of all hand-labor, that which sustains
the family, been thus disgraced; so that to nurse young children, and provide the food of a
family by labor, is deemed the lowest of all positions in honor and profit, and the last resort
of poverty. And so our Lord, who himself took the form of a servant, teaches, "How hardly shall
they that have riches enter the kingdom of heaven!"--that kingdom in which all are toiling
to raise the weak, ignorant, and sinful to such equality with themselves as the children of
a loving family enjoy. One mode in which riches have led to antagonism with the true end of
the family state is in the style of living, by which the hand-labor, most important to health,
comfort, and beauty, is confined to the most ignorant and neglected members of society, without
any effort being made to raise them to equal advantages with the wise and cultivated.

And, the higher civilization has advanced, the more have children been trained to feel that
to labor, as did Christ and Paul, is disgraceful, and to be made the portion of a degraded
class. Children, of the rich grow up with the feeling that servants are to work for them, and
they themselves are not to work. To the minds of most children and servants, "to be a lady,"
is almost synonymous with "to be waited on, and do no work," It is the earnest desire of the
authors of this volume to make plain the falsity of this growing popular feeling, and to show
how much happier and more efficient family life will become when it is strengthened, sustained,
and adorned by family work.

II.

A CHRISTIAN HOUSE.

In the Divine Word it is written, "The wise woman buildeth her house." To be "wise," is "to
choose the best means for accomplishing the best end." It has been shown that the best end
for a woman to seek is the training of God's children for their eternal home, by guiding them
to intelligence, virtue, and true happiness. When, therefore, the wise woman seeks a home in
which to exercise this ministry, she will aim to secure a house so planned that it will provide
in the best manner for health, industry, and economy, those cardinal requisites of domestic
enjoyment and success. To aid in this, is the object of the following drawings and descriptions,
which will illustrate a style of living more conformed to the great design for which the family
is instituted than that which ordinarily prevails among those classes which take the lead in
forming the customs of society. The aim will be to exhibit modes of economizing labor, time,
and expenses, so as to secure health, thrift, and domestic happiness to persons of limited
means, in a measure rarely attained even by those who possess wealth.

At the head of this chapter is a sketch of what may be properly called a Christian house; that
is, a house contrived for the express purpose of enabling every member of a family to labor
with the hands for the common good, and by modes at once healthful, economical, and tasteful.
Of course, much of the instruction conveyed in the following pages is chiefly applicable to
the wants and habits of those living either in the country or in such suburban vicinities as
give space of ground for healthful outdoor occupation in the family service, although the general
principles of house-building and house-keeping are of necessity universal in their application--as
true in the busy confines of the city as in the freer and purer quietude of the country. So
far as circumstances can be made to yield the opportunity, it will be assumed that the family
state demands some outdoor labor for all. The cultivation of flowers to ornament the table
and house, of fruits and vegetables for food, of silk and cotton for clothing, and the care
of horse, cow, and dairy, can be so divided that each and all of the family, some part of the
day, can take exercise in the pure air, under the magnetic and healthful rays of the sun. Every
head of a family should seek a soil and climate which will afford such opportunities. Railroads,
enabling men toiling in cities to rear families in the country, are on this account a special
blessing. So, also, is the opening of the South to free labor, where, in the pure and mild
climate of the uplands, open-air labor can proceed most of the year, and women and children
labor out of doors as well as within.

In the following drawings are presented modes of economizing time, labor, and expense by the
close packing of conveniences. By such methods, small and economical houses can be made to
secure most of the comforts and many of the refinements of large and expensive ones. The cottage
at the head of this chapter is projected on a plan which can be adapted to a warm or cold climate
with little change. By adding another story, it would serve a large family.

Fig. 1 shows the ground-plan of the first floor. On the inside it is forty-three feet long
and twenty-five wide, excluding conservatories and front and back projections. Its inside height
from floor to ceiling is ten feet. The piazzas each side of the front projection have sliding-windows
to the floor, and can, by glazed sashes, be made green-houses in winter. In a warm climate,
piazzas can be made at the back side also.

In the description and arrangement, the leading aim is to show how time, labor, and expense
are saved, not only in the building but in furniture and its arrangement. With this aim, the
ground-floor and its furniture will first be shown, then the second story and its furniture,
and then the basement and its conveniences. The conservatories are appendages not necessary
to housekeeping, but useful in many ways pointed out more at large in other chapters.

The entry has arched recesses behind the front doors, (Fig. 2,) furnished with hooks for over-clothes
in both--a box for over-shoes in one, and a stand for umbrellas in the other. The roof of the
recess is for statuettes, busts, or flowers. The stairs turn twice with broad steps, making
a recess at the lower landing, whore a table is set with a vase of flowers, (Fig. 3.) On one
side of the recess is a closet, arched to correspond with the arch over the stairs. A bracket
over the first broad stair, with flowers or statuettes, is visible from the entrance, and pictures
can be hung as in the illustration.

The large room on the left can be made to serve the purpose of several rooms by means of a
movable screen. By shifting this rolling screen from one part of the room to another, two apartments
are always available, of any desired size within the limits of the large room. One side of
the screen fronts what may be used as the parlor or sitting-room; the other side is arranged
for bedroom conveniences. Of this, Fig. 4 shows the front side;--covered first with strong
canvas, stretched and nailed on. Over this is pasted panel-paper, and the upper part is made
to resemble an ornamental cornice by fresco-paper. Pictures can be hung in the panels, or be
pasted on and varnished with white varnish. To prevent the absorption of the varnish, a wash
of gum isinglass (fish-glue) must be applied twice.

Fig. 5 shows the back or inside of the movable screen toward the part of the room used as the
bedroom. On one side, and at the top and bottom, it has shelves with shelf-boxes, which are
cheaper and better than drawers, and much preferred by those using them. Handles are cut in
the front and back side, as seen in Fig. 6. Half an inch space must be between the box and
the shelf over it, and as much each side, so that it can be taken out and put in easily. The
central part of the screen's interior is a wardrobe.

[Image: Panel screens]

This screen must be so high as nearly to reach the ceiling, in order to prevent it from overturning.
It is to fill the width of the room, except two feet on each side. A projecting cleat or strip,
reaching nearly to the top of the screen, three inches wide, is to be screwed to the front
sides, on which light frame doors are to be hung, covered with canvas and panel-paper like
the front of the screen. The inside of these doors is furnished with hooks for clothing, for
which the projection makes room. The whole screen is to be eighteen inches deep at the top
and two feet deep at the base, giving a solid foundation. It is moved on four wooden rollers,
one foot long and four inches in diameter. The pivots of the rollers and the parts where there
is friction must be rubbed with hard soap, and then a child can move the whole easily.

A curtain is to be hung across the whole interior of the screen by rings, on a strong wire.
The curtain should be in three parts, with lead or large nails in the hems to keep it in place.
The wood-work must be put together with screws, as the screen is too large to pass through a, door.

At the end of the room, behind the screen, are two couches, to be run one under the other,
as in Fig. 7. The upper one is made with four posts, each three feet high and three inches
square, set on casters two inches high. The frame is to be fourteen inches from the floor,
seven feet long, two feet four inches wide, and three inches in thickness. At the head, and
at the foot, is to be screwed a notched two-inch board, three inches wide, as in Fig. 8. The
mortises are to be one inch wide and deep, and one inch apart, to revive slats made of ash,
oak, or spruce, one inch square, placed lengthwise of the couch. The slats being small, and
so near together, and running lengthwise, make a better spring frame than wire coils. If they
warp, they can be turned. They must not be fastened at the ends, except by insertion in the
notches. Across the posts, and of equal height with them, are to be screwed head and foot-boards.

The under couch is like the upper, except these dimensions: posts, nine inches high, including
castors; frame, six feet two inches long, two feet four inches wide. The frame should be as
near the floor as possible, resting on the casters.

The most healthful and comfortable mattress is made by a case, open in the centre and fastened
together with buttons, as in Fig. 9; to be filled with oat straw, which is softer than wheat
or rye. This can be adjusted to the figure, and often renewed.

Fig. 10 represents the upper couch when covered, with the under couch put beneath it. The coverlid
should match the curtain of the screen; and the pillows, by day, should have a case of the same.

Fig. 11 is an ottoman, made as a box, with a lid on hinges. A cushion is fastened to this lid
by strings at each corner, passing through holes in the box lid and tied inside. The cushion
to be cut square, with side pieces; stuffed with hair, and stitched through like a mattress.
Side handles are made by cords fastened inside with knots. The box must be two inches larger
at the bottom than at the top, and the lid and cushion the same size as the bottom, to give
it a tasteful shape. This ottoman is set on casters, and is a great convenience for holding
articles, while serving also as a seat.

The expense of the screen, where lumber averages $4 a hundred, and carpenter labor $3 a day,
would be about $30, and the two couches about $6. The material for covering might be cheap
and yet pretty. A woman with these directions, and a son or husband who would use plane and
saw, could thus secure much additional room, and also what amounts to two bureaus, two large
trunks, one large wardrobe, and a wash-stand, for less than $20--the mere cost of materials.
The screen and couches can be so arranged as to have one room serve first as a large and airy
sleeping-room; then, in the morning, it may be used as sitting-room one side of the screen,
and breakfast-room the other; and lastly, through the day it can be made a large parlor on
the front side, and a sewing or retiring-room the other side. The needless spaces usually devoted
to kitchen, entries, halls, back-stairs, pantries, store-rooms, and closets, by this method
would be used in adding to the size of the large room, so variously used by day and by night.

Fig. 12 is an enlarged plan of the kitchen and stove-room. The chimney and stove-room are contrived
to ventilate the whole house, by a mode exhibited in another chapter.

Between the two rooms glazed sliding-doors, passing each other, serve to shut out heat and
smells from the kitchen. The sides of the stove-room must be lined with shelves; those on the
side by the cellar stairs, to be one foot wide, and eighteen inches apart; on the other side,
shelves may be narrower, eight inches wide and nine inches apart. Boxes with lids, to receive
stove utensils, must be placed near the stove.

On these shelves, and in the closet and boxes, can be placed every material used for cooking,
all the table and cooking utensils, and all the articles used in house work, and yet much spare
room will be left. The cook's galley in a steamship has every article and utensil used in cooking
for two hundred persons, in a space not larger than this stove-room, and so arranged that with
one or two steps the cook can reach all he uses.

In contrast to this, in most large houses, the table furniture, the cooking materials and utensils,
the sink, and the eating-room, are at such distances apart, that half the time and strength
is employed in walking back and forth to collect and return the articles used.

Fig. 13 is an enlarged plan of the sink and cooking-form. Two windows make a better circulation
of air in warm weather, by having one open at top and the other at the bottom, while the light
is better adjusted for working, in case of weak eyes.

The flour-barrel just fills the closet, which has a door for admission, and a lid to raise
when used. Beside it, is the form for cooking, with a moulding-board laid on it; one side used
for preparing vegetables and meat, and the other for moulding bread. The sink has two pumps,
for well and for rain-water--one having a forcing power to throw water into the reservoir in
the garret, which supplies the water-closet and bath-room. On the other side of the sink is
the dish-drainer, with a ledge on the edge next the sink, to hold the dishes, and grooves cut
to let the water drain into the sink. It has hinges, so that it can either rest on the cook-form
or be turned over and cover the sink. Under the sink are shelf-boxes placed on two shelves
run into grooves, with other grooves above and below, so that one may move the shelves and
increase or diminish the spaces between. The shelf-boxes can be used for scouring-materials,
dish-towels, and dish-cloths; also to hold bowls for bits of butter, fats, etc. Under these
two shelves is room for two pails, and a jar for soap-grease.

Under the cook-form are shelves and shelf-boxes for unbolted wheat, corn-meal, rye, etc. Beneath
these, for white and brown sugar, are wooden can-pails, which are the best articles in which
to keep these constant necessities. Beside them is the tin molasses-can with a tight, movable
cover, and a cork in the spout. This is much better than a jug for molasses, and also for vinegar
and oil, being easier to clean and to handle. Other articles and implements for cooking can
be arranged on or under the shelves at the side and front. A small cooking-tray, holding pepper,
salt, dredging-box, knife and spoon, should stand close at hand by the stove, (Fig. 14.)

The articles used for setting tables are to be placed on the shelves at the front and side
of the sink. Two tumbler-trays, made of pasteboard, covered with varnished fancy papers and
divided by wires, (as shown in Fig. 15,) save many steps in setting and clearing table. Similar
trays, (Fig. 16,) for knives and forks and spoons, serve the same purpose.

The sink should be three feet long and three inches deep, its width matching the cook-form.

Fig. 17 is the second or attic story. The main objection to attic rooms is their warmth in
summer, owing to the heated roof. This is prevented by so enlarging the closets each side that
their walls meet the ceiling under the garret floor, thus excluding all the roof. In the bed-chambers,
corner dressing-tables, as Fig. 18, instead of projecting bureaus, save much space for use,
and give a handsome form and finish to the room. In the bath-room must be the opening to the
garret, and a step-ladder to reach it. A reservoir in the garret, supplied by a forcing-pump
in the cellar or at the sink, must be well supported by timbers, and the plumbing must be well
done, or much annoyance will ensue.

The large chambers are to be lighted by large windows or glazed sliding-doors, opening upon
the balcony. A roof can be put over the balcony and its sides inclosed by windows, and the
chamber extend into it, and be thus much enlarged.

The water-closets must have the latest improvements for safe discharge, and there will be no
trouble. They cost no more than an out-door building, and save from the most disagreeable house-labor.
A great improvement, called earth-closets, will probably take the place of water-closets to
some extent; though at present the water is the more convenient. A description of the earth-closet
will be given in another chapter relating to tenement-houses for the poor in large cities.

The method of ventilating all the chambers, and also the cellar, will be described in another
chapter.

Fig. 19 represents a shoe-bag, that can be fastened to the side of a closet or closet-door.

Fig. 20 represents a piece-bag, and is a very great labor and space-saving invention. It is
made of calico, and fastened to the side of a closet or a door, to hold all the bundles that
are usually stowed in trunks and drawers. India-rubber or elastic tape drawn into hems to hold
the contents of the bag is better than tape-strings. Each bag should be labeled with the name
of its contents, written with indelible ink on white tape sewed on to the bag. Such systematic
arrangement saves much time and annoyance. Drawers or trunks to hold these articles can not
be kept so easily in good order, and moreover, occupy spaces saved by this contrivance.

Fig. 21 is the basement. It has the floor and sides plastered, and is lighted with glazed doors.
A form is raised close by the cellar stairs, for baskets, pails, and tubs. Here, also, the
refrigerator can be placed, or, what is better, an ice-closet can be made, as designated in
the illustration. The floor of the basement must be an inclined plane toward a drain, and be
plastered with water-lime. The wash-tubs have plugs in the bottom to let off water, and cocks
and pipes over them bringing cold water from the reservoir in the garret and hot water from
the laundry stove. This saves much heavy labor of emptying tubs and carrying water.

The laundry closet has a stove for heating irons, and also a kettle on top for heating water.
Slides or clothes-frames are made to draw out to receive wet clothes, and then run into the
closet to dry. This saves health as well as time and money, and the clothes are as white as
when dried outdoors.

The wood-work of the house, for doors, windows, etc., should be oiled chestnut, butternut,
white-wood, and pine. This is cheaper, handsomer, and more easy to keep clean than painted wood.

In Fig. 21 are planned two conservatories, and few understand their value in the training of
the young. They provide soil, in which children, through the winter months, can be starting
seeds and plants for their gardens find raising valuable, tender plants. Every child should
cultivate flowers and fruits to sell and to give away, and thus be taught to learn the value
of money and to practice both economy and benevolence.

According to the calculation of a house-carpenter, in a place where the average price of lumber
is $4 a hundred, and carpenter work $3 a day, such a house can be built for $1600. For those
practicing the closest economy, two small families could occupy it, by dividing the kitchen,
and yet have room enough. Or one large room and the chamber over it can be left till increase
of family and means require enlargement.

A strong horse and carryall, with a cow, garden, vineyard, and orchard, on a few acres, would
secure all the substantial comforts found in great establishments, without the trouble of ill-qualified
servants.

And if the parents and children were united in the daily labors of the house, garden, and fruit
culture; such thrift, health, and happiness would be secured as is but rarely found among the rich.

Let us suppose a colony of cultivated and Christian people, having abundant wealth, who now
are living as the wealthy usually do, emigrating to some of the beautiful Southern uplands,
where are rocks, hills, valleys, and mountains as picturesque as those of New England, where
the thermometer but rarely reaches 90 degrees in summer, and in winter as rarely sinks below
freezing-point, so that outdoor labor goes on all the year, where the fertile soil is easily
worked, where rich tropical fruits and flowers abound, where cotton and silk can be raised
by children around their home, where the produce of vineyards and orchards finds steady markets
by railroads ready made; suppose such a colony, with a central church and school-room, library,
hall for sports, and a common laundry, (taking the most trying part of domestic labor from
each house,)--suppose each family to train the children to labor with the hands as a healthful
and honorable duty; suppose all this, which is perfectly practicable, would not the enjoyment
of this life be increased, and also abundant treasures be laid up in heaven, by using the wealth
thus economized in diffusing similar enjoyments and culture among the poor, ignorant, and neglected
ones in desolated sections where many now are perishing for want of such Christian example
and influences?

III.

A HEALTHFUL HOME.

When "the wise woman buildeth her house," the first consideration will be the health of the
inmates. The first and most indispensable requisite for health is pure air, both by day and night.

If the parents of a family should daily withhold from their children a large portion of food
needful to growth and health, and every night should administer to each a small dose of poison,
it would be called murder of the most hideous character. But it is probable that more than
one half of this nation are doing that very thing. The murderous operation is perpetrated daily
and nightly, in our parlors, our bed-rooms, our kitchens, our schoolrooms; and even our churches
are no asylum from the barbarity. Nor can we escape by our railroads, for even there the same
dreadful work is going on.

The only palliating circumstance is the ignorance of those who commit these wholesale murders.
As saith the Scripture, "The people do perish for lack of knowledge." And it is this lack of
knowledge which it is woman's special business to supply, in first training her household to
intelligence as the indispensable road to virtue and happiness.

The above statements will be illustrated by some account of the manner in which the body is
supplied with healthful nutriment. There are two modes of nourishing the body, one is by food
and the other by air. In the stomach the food is dissolved, and the nutritious portion is absorbed
by the blood, and then is earned by blood-vessels to the lungs, where it receives oxygen from
the air we breathe. This oxygen is as necessary to the nourishment of the body as the food
for the stomach. In a full-grown man weighing one hundred and fifty-four pounds, one hundred
and eleven pounds consists of oxygen, obtained chiefly from the air we breathe. Thus the lungs
feed the body with oxygen, as really as the stomach supplies the other food required.

The lungs occupy the upper portion of the body from the collar-bone to the lower ribs, and
between their two lobes is placed the heart.

Fig. 22 shows the position of the lungs, though not the exact shape. On the right hand is the
exterior of one of the lobes, and on the left hand are seen the branching tubes of the interior,
through which the air we breathe passes to the exceedingly minute air-cells of which the lungs
chiefly consist. Fig. 23 shows the outside of a cluster of these air-cells, and Fig. 24 is
the inside view. The lining membrane of each air-cell is covered by a network of minute blood-vessels
called capillaries which, magnified several hundred times, appear in the microscope as at Fig.
25. Every air-cell has a blood-vessel that brings blood from the heart, which meanders through
its capillaries till it reaches another blood-vessel that carries it back to the heart, as
seen in Fig. 26. In this passage of the blood through these capillaries, the air in the air-cell
imparts its oxygen to the blood, and receives in exchange carbonic acid and watery vapor. These
latter are expired at every breath into the atmosphere.

By calculating the number of air cells in a small portion of the lungs, under a microscope,
it is ascertained that there are no less than eighteen million of these wonderful little purifiers
and feeders of the body. By their ceaseless ministries, every grown person receives, each day,
thirty-three hogsheads of air into the lungs to nourish and vitalize every part of the body,
and also to carry off its impurities.

But the heart has a most important agency in this operation. Fig. 27 is a diagram of the heart,
which is placed between the two lobes of the lungs. The right side of the heart receives the
dark and impure blood, which is loaded with carbonic acid. It is brought from every point of
the body by branching veins that unite in the upper and the lower vena cava, which discharge
into the right side of the heart. This impure blood passes to the capillaries of the air-cells
in the lungs, where it gives off carbonic acid, and, taking oxygen from the air, then returns
to the left side of the heart, from whence it is sent out through the aorta and its myriad
branching arteries to every part of the body. When the upper portion of the heart contracts,
it forces both the pure blood from the lungs, and the impure blood from the body, through the
valves marked V, V, into the lower part. When the lower portion contracts, it closes the valves
and forces the impure blood into the lungs on one side, and also on the other side forces the
purified blood through the aorta and arteries to all parts of the body.

As before stated, the lungs consist chiefly of air-cells, the walls of which are lined with
minute blood-vessels; and we know that in every man these air-cells number eighteen millions.

Now every beat of the heart sends two ounces of blood into the minute, hair-like blood-vessels,
called capillaries, that line these air-cells, where the air in the air-cells gives its oxygen
to the blood, and in its place receives carbonic acid. This gas is then expired by the lungs
into the surrounding atmosphere.

Thus, by this powerful little organ, the heart, no less than twenty-eight pounds of blood,
in a common-sized man, is sent three times every hour through the lungs, giving out carbonic
acid and watery vapor, and receiving the life-inspiring oxygen.

Whether all this blood shall convey the nourishing and invigorating oxygen to every part of
the body, or return unrelieved of carbonic acid, depends entirely on the pureness of the atmosphere
that is breathed.

Every time we think or feel, this mental action dissolves some particles of the brain and nerves,
which pass into the blood to be thrown out of the body through the lungs and skin. In like
manner, whenever we move any muscle, some of its particles decay and pass away. It is in the
capillaries, which are all over the body, that this change takes place. The blood-vessels that
convey the pure blood from the heart, divide into myriads of little branches that terminate
in capillary vessels like those lining the air-cells of the lungs. The blood meanders through
these minute capillaries, depositing the oxygen taken from the lungs and the food of the stomach,
and receiving in return the decayed matter, which is chiefly carbonic acid.

This carbonic acid is formed by the union of oxygen with carbon or charcoal, which forms a
large portion of the body. Watery vapor is also formed in the capillaries by the union of oxygen
with the hydrogen contained in the food and drink that nourish the body.

During this process in the capillaries, the bright red blood of the arteries changes to the
purple blood of the veins, which is carried back to the heart, to be sent to the lungs as before
described. A portion of the oxygen received in the lungs unites with the dissolved food sent
from the stomach into the blood, and no food can nourish the body till it has received a proper
supply of oxygen in the lungs. At every breath a half-pint of blood receives its needed oxygen
in the lungs, and at the same time gives out an equal amount of carbonic acid and water.

Now, this carbonic acid, if received into the lungs, undiluted by sufficient air, is a fatal
poison, causing certain death. When it is mixed with only a small portion of air, it is a slow
poison, which imperceptibly undermines the constitution.

We now can understand how it is that all who live in houses where the breathing of inmates
has deprived the air of oxygen, and loaded it with carbonic acid, may truly be said to be poisoned
and starved; poisoned with carbonic acid, and starved for want of oxygen.

Whenever oxygen unites with carbon to form carbonic acid, or with hydrogen to form water, heat
is generated Thus it is that a land of combustion is constantly going on in the capillaries
all over the body. It is this burning of the decaying portions of the body that causes animal
heat. It is a process similar to that which takes place when lamps and candles are burning.
The oil and tallows which are chiefly carbon and hydrogen, unite with the oxygen of the air
and form carbonic acid and watery vapor, producing heat during the process. So in the capillaries
all over the body, the carbon and hydrogen supplied to the blood by the stomach, unite with
the oxygen gained in the lungs, and cause the heat which is diffused all over the body.

The skin also performs an office, similar to that of the lungs. In the skin of every adult
there are no less than seven million minute perspirating tubes, each one fourth of an inch
long. If all these were united in one length, they would extend twenty-eight miles. These minute
tubes are lined with capillary blood-vessels, which are constantly sending out not only carbonic
acid, but other gases and particles of decayed matter. The skin and lungs together, in one
day and night, throw out three quarters of a pound of charcoal as carbonic acid, beside other
gases and water.

While the bodies of men and animals are filling the air with the poisonous carbonic acid, and
using up the life-giving oxygen, the trees and plants are performing an exactly contrary process;
for they are absorbing carbonic acid and giving out oxygen. Thus, by a wonderful arrangement
of the beneficent Creator, a constant equilibrium is preserved. What animals use is provided
by vegetables, and what vegetables require is furnished by animals; and all goes on, day and
night, without care or thought of man.

The human race in its infancy was placed in a mild and genial clime, where each separate family
dwelt in tents, and breathed, both day and night, the pure air of heaven. And when they became
scattered abroad to colder climes, the open fire-place secured a full supply of pure air. But
civilization has increased economies and conveniences far ahead of the knowledge needed by
the common people for their healthful use. Tight sleeping-rooms, and close, air-tight stoves,
are now starving and poisoning more than one half of this nation. It seems impossible to make
people know their danger. And the remedy for this is the light of knowledge and intelligence
which it is woman's special mission to bestow, as she controls and regulates the ministries
of a home.

To illustrate the effects of this poison, the horrors of "the Black Hole of Calcutta" are often
referred to, where one hundred and forty-six men were crowded into a room only eighteen feet
square with but two small windows, and in a hot climate. After a night of such horrible torments
as chill the blood to read, the morning showed a pile of one hundred and twenty-three dead
men and twenty-three half dead that were finally recovered only to a life of weakness and suffering.

In another case, a captain of the steamer Londonderry, in 1848, from sheer ignorance of the
consequences, in a storm, shut up his passengers in a tight room without windows. The agonies,
groans, curses, and shrieks that followed were horrible. The struggling mass finally burst
the door, and the captain found seventy-two of the two hundred already dead; while others,
with blood starting from their eyes and ears, and their bodies in convulsions, were restored,
many only to a life of sickness and debility.

It is ascertained by experiments that breathing bad air tends so to reduce all the processes
of the body, that less oxygen is demanded and less carbonic acid sent out. This, of course,
lessens the vitality and weakens the constitution; and it accounts for the fact that a person
of full health, accustomed to pure air, suffers from bad air far more than those who are accustomed
to it. The body of strong and healthy persons demands more oxygen, and throws off more carbonic
acid, and is distressed when the supply fails. But the one reduced by bad air feels little
inconvenience, because all the functions of life are so slow that less oxygen is needed, and
less carbonic acid thrown out. And the sensibilities being deadened, the evil is not felt.
This provision of nature prolongs many lives, though it turns vigorous constitutions into feeble
ones. Were it not for this change in the constitution, thousands in badly ventilated rooms
and houses would come to a speedy death.

One of the results of unventilated rooms is scrofula, A distinguished French physician, M.
Baudeloque, states that:

"The repeated respiration of the same atmosphere is the cause of scrofula. If there be entirely
pure air, there may be bad food, bad clothing, and want of personal cleanliness, but scrofulous
disease can not exist. This disease never attacks persons who pass their lives in the open
air, and always manifests itself when they abide in air which is unrenewed. Invariably it will
be found that a truly scrofulous disease is caused by vitiated air; and it is not necessary
that there should be a prolonged stay in such an atmosphere. Often, several hours each day
is sufficient. Thus persons may live in the most healthy country, pass most of the day in the
open air, and yet become scrofulous by sleeping in a close room where the air is not renewed.
This is the case with many shepherds who pass their nights in small huts with no opening but
a door closed tight at night."

The same writer illustrates this, by the history of a French village where the inhabitants
all slept in close, unventilated houses. Nearly all were seized with scrofula, and many families
became wholly extinct, their last members dying "rotten with scrofula." A fire destroyed a
large part of this village. Houses were then built to secure pure air, and scrofula disappeared
from the part thus rebuilt.

We are informed by medical writers that defective ventilation is one great cause of diseased
joints, as well as of diseases of the eyes, ears, and skin.

Foul air is the leading cause of tubercular and scrofulous consumption, so very common in our
country. Dr, Guy, in his examination before public health commissioners in Great Britain, says:
"Deficient ventilation I believe to be more fatal than all other causes put together." He states
that consumption is twice as common among tradesmen as among the gentry, owing to the bad ventilation
of their stores and dwellings.

Dr. Griscom, in his work on Uses and Abuses of Air, says:

"Food carried from the stomach to the blood can not become nutritive till it is properly oxygenated
in the lungs; so that a small quantity of food, even if less wholesome, may be made nutritive
by pure air as it passes through the lungs. But the best of food can not be changed into nutritive
blood till it is vitalized by pure air in the lungs."

And again:

"To those who have the care and instruction of the rising generation--the future fathers and
mothers of men--this subject of ventilation commends itself with an interest surpassing every
other. Nothing can more convincingly establish the belief in the existence of something vitally
wrong in the habits and circumstances of civilized life than the appalling fact that one fourth
of all who are born die before reaching the fifth year, and one half the deaths of mankind
occur under the twentieth year. Let those who have these things in charge answer to their own
consciences how they discharge their duty in supplying to the young a pure atmosphere, which
is the first requisite for healthy bodies and sound minds."

On the subject of infant mortality the experience of savages should teach the more civilized.
Professor Brewer, who traveled extensively among the Indians of our western territories, states:
"I have rarely seen a sick boy among the Indians." Catlin, the painter, who resided and traveled
so much among these people, states that infant mortality is very small among them, the reason,
of course, being abundant exercise and pure air.

Dr. Dio Lewis, whose labors in the cause of health are well known, in his very useful work,
Weak Lungs and How to Make them Strong, says:

"As a medical man I have visited thousands of sickrooms, and have not found in one in a hundred
of them a pure atmosphere. I have often returned from church doubting whether I had not committed
a sin in exposing myself so long to its poisonous air. There are in our great cities churches
costing $50,000, in the construction of which, not fifty cents were expended in providing means
for ventilation. Ten thousand dollars for ornament, but not ten cents for pure air!

"Unventilated parlors, with gas-burners, (each consuming as much oxygen as several men,) made
as tight as possible, and a party of ladies and gentlemen spending half the night in them!
In 1861, I visited a legislative hall, the legislature being in session. I remained half an
hour in the most impure air I ever breathed. Our school-houses are, some of them, so vile in
this respect, that I would prefer to have my son remain in utter ignorance of books rather
than to breathe, six hours every day, such a poisonous atmosphere. Theatres and concert-rooms
are so foul that only reckless people continue to visit them. Twelve hours in a railway-car
exhausts one, not by the journeying, but because of the devitalized air. While crossing the
ocean in a Cunard steamer, I was amazed that men who knew enough to construct such ships did
not know enough to furnish air to the passengers. The distress of sea-sickness is greatly intensified
by the sickening air of the ship. Were carbonic acid only black, what a contrast there would
be between our hotels in their elaborate ornament!"

"Some time since I visited an establishment where one hundred and fifty girls, in a single
room, were engaged in needle-work. Pale-faced, and with low vitality and feeble circulation,
they were unconscious that they were breathing air that at once produced in me dizziness and
a sense of suffocation. If I had remained a week with, them, I should, by reduced vitality,
have become unconscious of the vileness of the air!"

There is a prevailing prejudice against night air as unhealthful to be admitted into sleeping-rooms,
which is owing wholly to sheer ignorance. In the night every body necessarily breathes night
air and no other. When admitted from without into a sleeping-room it is colder, and therefore
heavier, than the air within, so it sinks to the bottom of the room and forces out an equal
quantity of the impure air, warmed and vitiated by passing through the lungs of inmates. Thus
the question is, Shall we shut up a chamber and breathe night air vitiated with carbonic acid
or night air that is pure? The only real difficulty about night air is, that usually it is
damper, and therefore colder and more likely to chill. This is easily prevented by sufficient
bed-clothing.

One other very prevalent mistake is found even in books written by learned men. It is often
thought that carbonic acid, being heavier than common air, sinks to the floor of sleeping-rooms,
so that the low trundle-beds for children should not be used. This is all a mistake; for, as
a fact, in close sleeping-rooms the purest air is below and the most impure above. It is true
that carbonic acid is heavier than common air, when pure; but this it rarely is except in chemical
experiments. It is the property of all gases, as well as of the two (oxygen and nitrogen) composing
the atmosphere, that when brought together they always are entirely mixed, each being equally
diffused exactly as it would be if alone. Thus the carbonic acid from the skin and lungs, being
warmed in the body, rises as does the common air, with which it mixes, toward the top of a
room; so that usually there is more carbonic acid at the top than at the bottom of a room.
[Footnote: Prof. Brewer, of the Tale Scientific School, says: "As a fact, often demonstrated
by analysis, there is generally more carbonic acid near the ceiling than near the floor."]
Both common air and carbonic acid expand and become lighter in the same proportions; that is,
for every degree of added heat they expand at the rate of 1/480 of their bulk.

Here, let it be remembered, that in ill-ventilated rooms the carbonic acid is not the only
cause of disease. Experiments seem to prove that other matter thrown out of the body, through
the lungs and skin, is as truly excrement and in a state of decay as that ejected from the
bowels, and as poisonous to the animal system. Carbonic acid has no odor; but we are warned
by the disagreeable effluvia of close sleeping-rooms of the other poison thus thrown into the
air from the skin and lungs. There is one provision of nature that is little understood, which
saves the lives of thousands living in unventilated houses; and that is, the passage of pure
air inward and impure air outward through the pores of bricks, wood, stone, and mortar. Were
such dwellings changed to tin, which is not thus porous, in less than a week thousands and
tens of thousands would be in danger of perishing by suffocation.

These statements give some idea of the evils to be remedied. But the most difficult point is
how to secure the remedy. For often the attempt to secure pure air by one class of persons
brings chills, colds, and disease on another class, from mere ignorance or mismanagement.

To illustrate this, it must be borne in mind that those who live in warm, close, and unventilated
rooms are much more liable to take cold from exposure to draughts and cold air than those of
vigorous vitality accustomed to breathe pure air.

Thus the strong and healthy husband, feeling the want of pure air in the night, and knowing
its importance, keeps windows open and makes such draughts that the wife, who lives all day
in a close room and thus is low in vitality, can not bear the change, has colds, and sometimes
perishes a victim to wrong modes of ventilation.

So, even in health-establishments, the patients will pass most of their days and nights in
badly-ventilated rooms. But at times the physician, or some earnest patient, insists on a mode
of ventilation that brings more evil than good to the delicate inmates.

The grand art of ventilating houses is by some method that will empty rooms of the vitiated
air and bring in a supply of pure air by small and imperceptible currents.

But this important duty of a Christian woman is one that demands more science, care, and attention
than almost any other; and yet, to prepare her for this duty has never been any part of female
education. Young women are taught to draw mathematical diagrams and to solve astronomical problems;
but few, if any, of them are taught to solve the problem of a house constructed to secure pure
and moist air by day and night for all its inmates.

The heating and management of the air we breathe is one of the most complicated problems of
domestic economy, as will be farther illustrated in the succeeding chapter; and yet it is one
of which, most American women are profoundly ignorant.

IV.

SCIENTIFIC DOMESTIC VENTILATION.

We have seen in the preceding pages the process through which the air is rendered unhealthful
by close rooms and want of ventilation. Every person inspires air about twenty times each minute,
using half a pint each time. At this rate, every pair of lungs vitiates one hogshead of air
every hour. The membrane that lines the multitudinous air-cells of the lungs in which the capillaries
are, should it be united in one sheet, would cover the floor of a room twelve feet square.
Every breath brings a surface of air in contact with this extent of capillaries, by which the
air inspired gives up most of its oxygen and receives carbonic acid in its stead. These facts
furnish a guide for the proper ventilation of rooms. Just in proportion to the number of persons
in a room or a house, should be the amount of air brought in and carried out by arrangements
for ventilation. But how rarely is this rule regarded in building houses or in the care of
families by housekeepers!

The evils resulting from the substitution of stoves instead of the open fireplace, have led
scientific and benevolent men to contrive various modes of supplying pure air to both public
and private houses. But as yet little has been accomplished, except for a few of the more intelligent
and wealthy. The great majority of the American people, owing to sheer ignorance, are, for
want of pure air, being poisoned and starved; the result being weakened constitutions, frequent
disease, and shortened life.

Whenever a family-room is heated by an open fire, it is duly ventilated, as the impure air
is constantly passing off through the chimney, while, to supply the vacated space, the pure
air presses in through the cracks of doors, windows, and floors. No such supply is gained for
rooms warmed by stoves. And yet, from mistaken motives of economy, as well as from ignorance
of the resulting evils, multitudes of householders are thus destroying health and shortening
life, especially in regard to women and children who spend most of their time within-doors.

The most successful modes of making "a healthful home" by a full supply of pure air to every
inmate, will now be described and illustrated.

It is the common property of both air and water to expand, become lighter and rise, just in
proportion as they are heated; and therefore it is the invariable law that cool air sinks,
thus replacing the warmer air below. Thus, whenever cool air enters a warm room, it sinks downward
and takes the place of an equal amount of the warmer air, which is constantly tending upward
and outward. This principle of all fluids is illustrated by the following experiment:

Take a glass jar about a foot high and three inches in diameter, and with a wire to aid in
placing it aright, sink a small bit of lighted candle so as to stand in the centre at the bottom.
(Fig. 28.) The candle will heat the air of the jar, which will rise a little on one side, while
the colder air without will begin falling on the other side. These two currents will so conflict
as finally to cease, and then the candle, having no supply of oxygen from fresh air, will begin
to go out. Insert a bit of stiff paper so as to divide the mouth of the jar, and instantly
the cold and warm air are not in conflict as before, because a current is formed each side
of the paper; the cold air descending on one aide and the warm air ascending the other side,
as indicated by the arrows. As long as the paper remains, the candle will burn, and as soon
as it is removed, it will begin to go out, and can be restored by again inserting the paper.

This illustrates the mode by which coal-mines are ventilated when filled with carbonic acid.
A shaft divided into two passages, (Fig. 29,) is let down into the mine, where the air is warmer
than the outside air. Immediately the colder air outside presses down into the mine, through
the passage which is highest, being admitted by the escape of an equal quantity of the warmer
air, which rises through the lower passage of the shaft, this being the first available opening
for it to rise through. A current is thus created, which continues as long as the inside air
is warmer than that without the mine, and no longer. Sometimes a fire is kindled in the mine,
in order to continue or increase the warmth, and consequent upward current of its air.

This illustrates one of the cases where a "wise woman that buildeth her house" is greatly needed.
For, owing to the ignorance of architects, house-builders, and men in general, they have been
building school-houses, dwelling-houses, churches, and colleges, with the most absurd and senseless
contrivances for ventilation, and all from not applying this simple principle of science. On
this point, Prof. Brewer, of the Scientific School of Yale College, writes thus:

"I have been in public buildings, (I have one in mind now, filled with dormitories,) which
cost half a million, where they attempted to ventilate every room by a flue, long and narrow,
built into partition walls, and extending up into the capacious garret of the fifth story.
Every room in the building had one such flue, with an opening into it at the floor and at the
ceiling. It is needless to say that the whole concern was entirely useless. Had these flues
been of proper proportions, and properly divided, the desired ventilation would have been secured."

And this piece of ignorant folly was perpetrated in the midst of learned professors, teaching
the laws of fluids and the laws of health.

A learned physician also thus wrote to the author of this chapter: "The subject of the ventilation
of our dwelling-houses is one of the most important questions of our times. How many thousands
are victims to a slow suicide and murder, the chief instrument of which is want of ventilation!
How few are aware of the fact that every person, every day, vitiates thirty-three hogsheads
of the air, and that each inspiration takes one fifth of the oxygen, and returns as much carbonic
acid, from every pair of lungs in a room! How few understand that after air has received ten
per cent of this fatal gas, if drawn into the lungs, it can no longer take carbonic acid from
the capillaries! No wonder there is so much impaired nervous and muscular energy, so much scrofula,
tubercles, catarrhs, dyspepsia, and typhoid diseases. I hope you can do much to remedy the
poisonous air of thousands and thousands of stove-heated rooms."

In a cold climate and wintry weather, the grand impediment to ventilating rooms by opening
doors or windows is the dangerous currents thus produced, which are so injurious to the delicate
ones that for their sake it can not be done. Then, also, as a matter of economy, the poor can
not afford to practice a method which carries off the heat generated by their stinted store
of fuel. Even in a warm season and climate, there are frequent periods when the air without
is damp and chilly, and yet at nearly the same temperature as that in the house. At such times,
the opening of windows often has little effect in emptying a room of vitiated air. The ventilating-flues,
such as are used in mines, have, in such cases, but little influence; for it is only when outside
air is colder that a current can be produced within by this method.

The most successful mode of ventilating a house is by creating a current of warm air in a flue,
into which an opening is made at both the top and the bottom of a room, while a similar opening
for outside air is made at the opposite side of the room. This is the mode employed in chemical
laboratories for removing smells and injurious gases.

The laboratory-closet is closed with glazed doors, and has an opening to receive pure air through
a conductor from without. The stove or furnace within has a pipe which joins a larger cast-iron
chimney-pipe, which is warmed by the smoke it receives from this and other fires. This cast-iron
pipe is surrounded by a brick flue, through which air passes from below to be warmed by the
pipe, and thus an upward current of warm air is created. Openings are then made at the top
and bottom of the laboratory-closet into the warm-air flue, and the gases and smells are pressed
by the colder air into this flue, and are carried off in the current of warm air.

The same method is employed in the dwelling-house shown in a preceding chapter. A cast-iron
pipe is made in sections, which are to be united, and the whole fastened at top and bottom
in the centre of the warm-air flue by ears extending to the bricks, and fastened when the flue
is in process of building. Projecting openings to receive the pipes of the furnace, the laundry
stove, and two stoves in each story, should be provided, which must be closed when not in use.
A large opening is to be made into the warm-air fine, and through this the kitchen stove-pipe
is to pass, and be joined to the cast-iron chimney-pipe. Thus the smoke of the kitchen stove
will warm the iron chimney-pipe, and this will warm the air of the flue, causing a current
upward, and this current will draw the heat and smells of cooking out of the kitchen into the
opening of the warm-air flue. Every room surrounding the chimney has an opening at the top
and bottom into the warm-air Hue for ventilation, as also have the bathroom and water-closets.

The writer has examined the methods most employed at the present time, which are all modifications
of the two modes here described. One is that of Robinson, patented by a Boston company, which
is a modification of the mining mode. It consists of the two ventilating tubes, such as are
employed in mines, united in one shaft with a roof to keep out rain, and a valve to regulate
the entrance and exit of air, as illustrated in Fig. 30. This method works well in certain
circumstances, but fails so often as to prove very unreliable. Another mode is that of Ruttan,
which is effected by heating air. This also has certain advantages and disadvantages. But the
mode adopted for the preceding cottage plan is free from the difficulties of both the above
methods, while it will surely ventilate every room in the house, both by day and night, and
at all seasons, without any risk to health, and requiring no attention or care from the family.

By means of a very small amount of fuel in the kitchen stove, to be described hereafter, the
whole house can be ventilated, and all the cooking done both in warm and cold weather. This
stove will also warm the whole house, in the Northern States, eight or nine months in the year.
Two Franklin stoves, in addition, will warm the whole house during the three or four remaining
coldest months.

In a warm climate or season, by means of the non-conducting castings, the stove will ventilate
the house and do all the cooking, without imparting heat or smells to any part of the house
except the stove-closet.

At the close of this volume, drawings, prepared by Mr. Lewis Leeds, are given, more fully to
illustrate this mode of warming and ventilation, and in so plain and simple a form that any
intelligent woman who has read this work can see that the plan is properly executed, even with
workmen so entirely ignorant on this important subject as are most house-builders, especially
in the newer territories. In the same article, directions are given as to the best modes of
ventilating houses that are already built without any arrangements for ventilation.

V. THE CONSTRUCTION AND CARE OF STOVES, FURNACES, AND CHIMNEYS.

If all American housekeepers could be taught how to select and manage the most economical and
convenient apparatus for cooking and for warming a house, many millions now wasted by ignorance
and neglect would be saved. Every woman should be taught the scientific principles in regard
to heat, and then their application to practical purposes, for her own benefit, and also to
enable her to train her children and servants in this important duty of home life on which
health and comfort so much depend.

The laws that regulate the generation, diffusion, and preservation of heat as yet are a sealed
mystery to thousands of young women who imagine they are completing a suitable education in
courses of instruction from which most that is practical in future domestic life is wholly
excluded. We therefore give a brief outline of some of the leading scientific principles which
every housekeeper should understand and employ, in order to perform successfully one of her
most important duties.

Concerning the essential nature of heat, and its intimate relations with the other great natural
forces, light, electricity, etc., we shall not attempt to treat, but shall, for practical purposes,
assume it to be a separate and independent force. Heat or caloric, then, has certain powers
or principles. Let us consider them:

First, we find Conduction, by which heat passes from one particle to another next to it; as
when one end of a poker is warmed by placing the other end in the fire. The bodies which allow
this power free course are called conductors, and those which do not are named non-conductors,
Metals are good conductors; feathers, wool, and furs are poor conductors; and water, air, and
gases are non-conductors.

Another principle of heat is Convection, by which water, air, and gases are warmed. This is,
literally, the process of conveying heat from one portion of a fluid body to another by currents
resulting from changes of temperature. It is secured by bringing one portion of a liquid or
gas into contact with a heated surface, whereby it becomes lighter and expanded in volume.
In consequence, the cooler and heavier particles above pressing downward, the lighter ones
rise upward, when the former, being heated, rise in their turn, and give place to others again
descending from above. Thus a constant motion of currents and interchange of particles is produced
until, as in a vessel of water, the whole body comes to an equal temperature. Air is heated
in the same way. In case of a hot stove, the air that touches it is heated, becomes lighter,
and rises, giving place to cooler and heavier particles, which, when heated, also ascend. It
is owing to this process that the air of a room is warmest at the top and coolest at the bottom.
It is owing to this principle, also, that water and air can not be heated by fire from above.
For the particles of these bodies, being non-conductors, do not impart heat to each other;
and when the warmest are at the top, they can not take the place of cooler and heavier ones below.

Another principle of heat (which it shares with light) is Radiation, by which all things send
out heat to surrounding cooler bodies. Some bodies will absorb radiated heat, others will reflect
it, and others allow it to pass through them without either absorbing or reflecting Thus, black
and rough substances absorb heat, (or light,) colored and smooth articles reflect it, while
air allows it to pass through without either absorbing or reflecting. It is owing to this,
that rough and black vessels boil water sooner than smooth and light-colored ones.

Another principle is Reflection, by which heat radiated to a surface is turned back from it
when not absorbed or allowed to pass through; just as a ball rebounds from a wall; just as
sound is thrown back from a hill, making echo; just as rays of light are reflected from a mirror.
And, as with light, the rays of heat are always reflected from a surface in an angle exactly
corresponding to the direction in which it strikes that surface. Thus, if heated are comes
to an object perpendicularly--that is, at right angles, it will be reflected back in the same
line. If it strikes obliquely, it is reflected obliquely, at an angle with the surface precisely
the same as the angle with which it first struck. And, of course, if it moves toward the surface
and comes upon it in a line having so small an angle with it as to be almost parallel with
it, the heated air is spread wide and diffused through a larger space than when the angles
are greater and the width of reflection less.

The simplest mode of warming a house and cooking food is by radiated heat from fires; but this
is the most wasteful method, as respects time, labor, and expense. The most convenient, economical,
and labor-saving mode of employing heat is by convection, as applied in stoves and furnaces.
But for want of proper care and scientific knowledge this method has proved very destructive
to health. When warming and cooking were done by open fires, houses were well supplied with
pure air, as is rarely the case in rooms heated by stoves. For such is the prevailing ignorance
on this subject that, as long as stoves save labor and warm the air, the great majority of
people, especially among the poor, will use them in ways that involve debilitated constitutions
and frequent disease.

The most common modes of cooking, where open fires are relinquished, are by the range and the
cooking-stove. The range is inferior to the stove in these respects: it is less economical,
demanding much more fuel; it endangers the dress of the cook while standing near for various
operations; it requires more stooping than the stove while cooking; it will not keep a fire
all night, as do the best stoves; it will not burn wood and coal equally well; and lastly,
if it warms the kitchen sufficiently in winter, it is too warm for summer. Some prefer it because
the fumes of cooking can be carried off; but stoves properly arranged accomplish this equally well.

After extensive inquiry and many personal experiments, the author has found a cooking-stove
constructed on true scientific principles, which unites convenience, comfort, and economy in
a remarkable manner. Of this stove, drawings and descriptions will now be given, as the best
mode of illustrating the practical applications of these principles to the art of cooking,
and to show how much American women have suffered and how much they have been imposed upon
for want of proper knowledge in this branch of their profession. And every woman can understand
what follows with much less effort than young girls at high-schools give to the first problems
of Geometry--for which they will never have any practical use, while attention to this problem
of home affairs will cultivate the intellect quite as much as the abstract reasonings of Algebra
and Geometry.,

Fig. 34 represents a portion of the interior of this cooking-stove. First, notice the fire-box,
which has corrugated (literally, wrinkled) sides, by which space is economized, so that as
much heating surface is secured as if they were one third larger; as the heat radiates from
every part of the undulating surface, which is one third greater in superficial extent than
if it were plane. The shape of the fire-box also secures more heat by having oblique sides--which
radiate more effectively into the oven beneath than if they were perpendicular, as illustrated
below--while also it is sunk into the oven, so as to radiate from three instead of from two
sides, as in most other stoves, the front of whose fire-boxes with their grates are built so
as to be the front of the stove itself.

The oven is the space under and around the back and front sides of the fire-box. The oven-bottom
is not introduced in the diagram, but it is a horizontal plate between the fire-box and what
is represented as the "flue-plate," which separates the oven from the bottom of the stove.
The top of the oven is the horizontal corrugated plate passing from the rear edge of the fire-box
to the back flues. These are three in number--the back centre-flue, which is closed to the
heat and smoke coming over the oven from the fire-box by a damper--and the two back corner-flues.
Down these two corner-flues passes the current of hot air and smoke, having first drawn across
the corrugated oven-top. The arrows show its descent through these flues, from which it obliquely
strikes and passes over the flue-plate, then under it, and then out through the centre back-flue,
which is open at the bottom, up into the smoke-pipe.

The flue-plate is placed obliquely, to accumulate heat by forcing and compression; for the
back space where the smoke enters from the corner-flues is largest, and decreases toward the
front, so that the hot current is compressed in a narrow space, between the oven-bottom and
the flue-plate at the place where the bent arrows are seen. Here again it enters a wider space,
under the flue-plate, and proceeds to another narrow one, between the flue-plate and the bottom
of the stove, and thus is compressed and retained longer than if not impeded by these various
contrivances. The heat and smoke also strike the plate obliquely, and thus, by reflection from
its surface, impart more heat than if the passage was a horizontal one.

The external radiation is regulated by the use of nonconducting plaster applied to the flue-plate
and to the sides of the corner-flues, so that the heat is prevented from radiating in any direction
except toward the oven. The doors, sides, and bottom of the stove are lined with tin casings,
which hold a stratum of air, also a non-conductor. These are so arranged as to be removed whenever
the weather becomes cold, so that the heat may then radiate into the kitchen. The outer edges
of the oven are also similarly protected from loss of heat by tin casings and air-spaces, and
the oven-doors opening at the front of the store are provided with the same economical savers
of heat. High tin covers placed on the top prevent the heat from radiating above the stove.
These are exceedingly useful, as the space under them is well heated and arranged for baking,
for heating irons, and many other incidental necessities. Cake and pies can be baked on the
top, while the oven is used for bread or for meats. When all the casings and covers are on,
almost all the heat is confined within the stove, and whenever heat for the room is wanted,
opening the front oven-doors turns it out into the kitchen.

Another contrivance is that of ventilating-holes in the front doors, through which fresh air
is brought into the oven. This secures several purposes: it carries off the fumes of cooking
meats, and prevents the mixing of flavors when different articles are cooked in the oven; it
drives the heat that accumulates between the fire-box and front doors down around the oven,
and equalizes its heat, so that articles need not be moved while baking; and lastly, as the
air passes through the holes of the fire-box, it causes the burning of gases in the smoke,
and thus increases heat. When wood or bituminous coal is used, perforated metal linings are
put in the fire-box, and the result is the burning of smoke and gases that otherwise would
pass into the chimney. This is a great discovery in the economy of fuel, which can be applied
in many ways.

Heretofore, most cooking-stoves have had dumping-grates, which are inconvenient from the dust
produced, are uneconomical in the use of fuel, and disadvantageous from too many or too loose
joints. But recently this stove has been provided with a dumping-grate which also will sift
ashes, and can be cleaned without dust and the other objectionable features of dumping-grates.
A further account of this stove, and the mode of purchasing and using it, will be given at
the close of the book.

Those who are taught to manage the stove properly keep the fire going all night, and equally
well with wood or coal, thus saving the expense of kindling and the trouble of starting a new
fire. When the fuel is of good quality, all that is needed in the morning is to draw the back-damper,
snake the grate, and add more fuel.

Another remarkable feature of this store is the extension-top, on which is placed a water reservoir,
constantly heated by the smoke as it passes from the stove, through one or two uniting passages,
to the smoke-pipe. Under this is placed a closet for warming and keeping hot the dishes, vegetables,
meats, etc., while preparing for dinner. It is also very useful in drying fruit; and when large
baking is required, a small appended pot for charcoal turns it into a fine large oven, that
bakes as nicely as a brick oven.

Another useful appendage is a common tin oven, in which roasting can be done in front of the
stove, the oven-doors being removed for the purpose. The roast will be done as perfectly as
by an open fire.

This stove is furnished with pipes for heating water, like the water-back of ranges, and these
can be taken or left out at pleasure. So also the top covers, the baking-stool and pot, and
the summer-back, bottom, and side-casings can be used or omitted as preferred.

Fig. 37 exhibits the stove completed, with all its appendages, as they might be employed in
cooking for a large number.

Its capacity, convenience, and economy as a stove may be estimated by the following fact: With
proper management of dampers, one ordinary-sized coal-hod of anthracite coal will, for twenty-four
hours, keep the stove running, keep seventeen gallons of water hot at all hours, bake pies
and puddings in the warm closet, heat flat-irons under the back cover, boil tea-kettle and
one pot under the front cover, bake bread in the oven, and cook a turkey in the tin roaster
in front. The author has numerous friends, who, after trying the best ranges, have dismissed
them for this stove, and in two or three years cleared the whole expense by the saving of fuel.

The remarkable durability of this stove is another economic feature. For in addition to its
fine castings and nice-fitting workmanship, all the parts liable to burn out are so protected
by linings, and other contrivances easily renewed, that the stove itself may pass from one
generation to another, as do ordinary chimneys. The writer has visited in families where this
stove had been in constant use for eighteen and twenty years, and was still as good as new.
In most other families the stoves are broken, burnt-out, or thrown aside for improved patterns
every four, five, or six years, and sometimes, to the knowledge of the writer, still oftener.

Another excellent point is that, although it is so complicated in its various contrivances
as to demand intelligent management in order to secure all its advantages, it also can be used
satisfactorily even when the mistress and maid are equally careless and ignorant of its distinctive
merits. To such it offers all the advantages of ordinary good stoves, and is extensively used
by those who take no pains to understand and apply its peculiar advantages.

But the writer has managed the stove herself in all the details of cooking, and is confident
that any housekeeper of common sense, who is instructed properly, and who also aims to have
her kitchen affairs managed with strict economy, can easily train any servant who is willing
to learn, so as to gain the full advantages offered. And even without any instructions at all,
except the printed directions sent with the stove, an intelligent woman can, by due attention,
though not without, both manage it, and teach her children and servants to do likewise. And
whenever this stove has failed to give the highest satisfaction, it has been, either because
the housekeeper was not apprized of its peculiarities, or because she did not give sufficient
attention to the matter, or was not able or willing to superintend and direct its management.

The consequence has been that, in families where this stove has been understood and managed
aright, it has saved nearly one half of the fuel that would be used in ordinary stoves, constructed
with the usual disregard of scientific and economic laws. And it is because we know this particular
stove to be convenient, reliable, and economically efficient beyond ordinary experience, in
the important housekeeping element of kitchen labor, that we devote to it so much space and
pains to describe its advantageous points.

CHIMNEYS.

One of the most serious evils in domestic life is often found in chimneys that will not properly
draw the smoke of a fire or stove. Although chimneys have been building for a thousand years,
the artisans of the present day seem strangely ignorant of the true method of constructing
them so as always to carry smoke upward instead of downward. It is rarely the case that a large
house is built in which there is not some flue or chimney which "will not draw." One of the
reasons why the stove described as excelling all others is sometimes cast aside for a poorer
one is, that it requires a properly constructed chimney, and multitudes of women do not know
how to secure it. The writer in early life shed many a bitter tear, drawn forth by smoke from
an ill-constructed kitchen-chimney, and thousands all over the land can report the same experience.

The following are some of the causes and the remedies for this evil.

The most common cause of poor chimney draughts is too large an opening for the fireplace, either
too wide or too high in front, or having too large a throat for the smoke. In a lower story,
the fireplace should not be larger than thirty inches wide, twenty-five inches high, and fifteen
deep. In the story above, it should be eighteen inches square and fifteen inches deep.

Another cause is too short a flue, and the remedy is to lengthen it. As a general rule, the
longer the flue the stronger the draught. But in calculating the length of a flue, reference
must be had to side-flues, if any open into it. Where this is the case, the length of the main
flue is to be considered as extending only from the bottom to the point where the upper flue
joins it, and where the lower will receive air from the upper flue. If a smoky flue can not
be increased in length, either by closing an upper flue or lengthening the chimney, the fireplace
must be contracted so that all the air near the fire will be heated and thus pressed upward.

If a flue has more than one opening, in some cases it is impossible to secure a good draught.
Sometimes it will work well and sometimes it will not. The only safe rule is to have a separate
flue to each fire.

Another cause of poor draughts is too tight a room, so that the cold air from without can not
enter to press the warm air up the chimney. The remedy is to admit a small current of air from
without.

Another cause is two chimneys in one room, or in rooms opening together, in which the draught
in one is much stronger than in the other. In this case, the stronger draught will draw away
from the weaker. The remedy is, for each room to have a proper supply of outside air; or, in
a single room, to stop one of the chimneys.

Another cause is the too close vicinity of a hill or buildings higher than the top of the chimney,
and the remedy for this is to raise the chimney.

Another cause is the descent, into unused fireplaces, of smoke from other chimneys near. The
remedy is to close the throat of the unused chimney.

Another cause is a door opening toward the fireplace, on the same side of the room, so that
its draught passes along the wall and makes a current that draws out the smoke. The remedy
is to change the hanging of the door so as to open another way.

Another cause is strong winds. The remedy is a turn-cap on top of the chimney.

Another cause is the roughness of the inside of a chimney, or projections which impede the
passage of the smoke. Every chimney should be built of equal dimensions from bottom to top,
with no projections into it, with as few bends as possible, and with the surface of the inside
as smooth as possible.

Another cause of poor draughts is openings into the chimney of chambers for stove-pipes. The
remedy is to close them, or insert stove-pipes that are in use.

Another cause is the falling out of brick in some part of the chimney so that outer air is
admitted. The remedy is to close the opening.

The draught of a stove may be affected by most of these causes. It also demands that the fireplace
have a tight fire-board, or that the throat he carefully filled. For neglecting this, many
a good stove has been thrown aside and a poor one taken in its place.

If all young women had committed to memory these causes of evil and their remedies, many a
badly-built chimney might have been cured, and many smoke-drawn tears, sighs, ill-tempers,
and irritating words avoided.

But there are dangers in this direction which demand special attention. Where one flue has
two stoves or fireplaces, in rooms one above the other, in certain states of the atmosphere,
the lower room, being the warmer, the colder air and carbonic acid in the room above will pass
down into the lower room through the opening for the stove or the fireplace.

This occurred not long since in a boarding-school, when the gas in a room above flowed into
a lower one, and suffocated several to death. This room had no mode of ventilation, and several
persons slept in it, and were thus stifled. Professor Brewer states a similar case in the family
of a relative. An anthracite stove was used in the upper room; and on one still, close night,
the gas from this stove descended through the flue and the opening into a room below, and stifled
two persons to insensibility, though, by proper efforts, their lives were saved. Many such
cases have occurred where rooms have been thus filled with poisonous gases, and servants and
children destroyed, or their constitutions injured, simply because housekeepers are not properly
instructed in this important branch of their profession.

FURNACES.

There is no improved mechanism in the economy of domestic life requiring more intelligent management
than furnaces. Let us then consider some of the principles involved.

The earth is heated by radiation from the sun. The air is not warmed by the passage of the
sun's heat through it, but by convection from the earth, in the same way that it is warmed
by the surfaces of stoves. The lower stratum of air is warmed by the earth and by objects which
have been warmed by radiated heat from the sun. The particles of air thus heated expand, become
lighter, and rise, being replaced by the descent of the cooler and heavier particles from above,
which, on being warmed also rise, and give place to others. Owing to this process, the air
is warmest nearest the earth, and grows cooler as height increases.

The air has a strong attraction for water, and always holds a certain quantity as invisible
vapor. The warmer the air, the more moisture it demands, and it will draw it from all objects
within reach. The air holds water according to its temperature. Thus, at fifty-two degrees,
Fahrenheit's thermometer, it holds half the moisture it can sustain; but at thirty-six degrees,
it will hold only one eighty-sixth part. The earth and all plants and trees are constantly
sending out moisture; and when the air has received all it can hold, without depositing it
as dew, it is said to be saturated, and the point of temperature at which dew begins to form,
by condensation, upon the surface of the earth and its vegetation, is called the dew-point.
When air, at a given temperature, has only forty per cent of the moisture it requires for saturation,
it is said to be dry. In a hot summer day, the air will hold far more moisture than in cool
days. In summer, out-door air rarely holds less than half its volume of water. In 1838, at
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and New-Haven, Connecticut, at seventy degrees, Fahrenheit, the air
held eighty per cent of moisture.

In New Orleans, the air often retains ninety per cent of the moisture it is capable of holding;
and in cool days at the North, in foggy weather, the air is sometimes wholly saturated.

When air holds all the moisture it can, without depositing dew, its moisture is called 100.
When it holds three fourths of this, it is said to be at seventy-five per cent. When it holds
only one half, it is at fifty per cent. When it holds only one fourth, it is at twenty-five
per cent, etc.

Sanitary observers teach that the proper amount of moisture in the air ranges from forty to
seventy per cent of saturation.

Now, furnaces, which are of course used only in winter, receive outside air at a low temperature,
holding little moisture; This it sucks up, like a sponge, from the walls and furniture of a
house. If it is taken into the human lungs, it draws much of its required moisture from the
body, often causing dryness of lips and throat, and painfully affecting the lungs. Prof. Brewer,
of the Scientific School of New-Haven, who has experimented extensively on this subject, states
that, while forty per cent of moisture is needed in air to make it healthful, most stoves and
furnaces do not, by any contrivances, supply one half of this, or not twenty per cent. He says
most furnace-heated air is dryer than is ever breathed in the hottest deserts of Sahara.

Thus, for want of proper instruction, most American housekeepers not only poison their families
with carbonic acid and starve them for want of oxygen, but also diminish health and comfort
for want of a due supply of moisture in the air. And often when a remedy is sought, by evaporating
water in the furnace, it is without knowing that the amount evaporated depends, not on the
quantity of water in the vessel, but on the extent of evaporating surface exposed to the air.
A quart of water in a wide shallow pan will give more moisture than two gallons with a small
surface exposed to heat.

There is also no little wise economy in expense attained by keeping a proper supply of moisture
in the air. For it is found that the body radiates its heat less in moist than in dry air,
so that a person feels as warm at a lower temperature when the air has a proper supply of moisture,
as in a much higher temperature of dry air. Of course, less fuel is needed to warm a house
when water is evaporated in stove and furnace-heated rooms. It is said by those who have experimented,
that the saving in fuel is twenty per cent when the air is duly supplied with moisture.

There is a very ingenious instrument, called the hygrodeik, which indicates the exact amount
of moisture in the air. It consists of two thermometers side by side, one of which has its
bulb surrounded by floss-silk wrapping, which is kept constantly wet by communication with
a cup of water near it. The water around the bulb evaporates just in proportion to the heat
of the air around it. The changing of water to vapor draws heat from the nearest object, and
this being the bulb of the thermometer, the mercury is cooled and sinks. Then the difference
between the two thermometers shows the amount of moisture in the air by a pointer on a dial-plate
constructed by simple mechanism for this purpose.

There is one very important matter in regard to the use of furnaces, which is thus stated by
Professor Brewer:

"I think it is a well-established fact that carbonic oxide will pass through iron. It is always
formed in great abundance in any anthracite fire, but especially in anthracite stoves and furnaces.
Moreover, furnaces always leak, more or less; how much they leak depending on the care and
skill with which they are managed. Carbonic oxide is much more poisonous than carbonic acid.
Doubtless some carbonic oxide finds its way into all furnace-heated houses, especially where
anthracite is used; the amount varying with the kind of furnace and its management. As to how
much escapes into a room, and its specific effect upon the health of its occupants, we have
no accurate data, no analysis to show the quantity, and no observations to show the relation
between the quantity inhaled and the health of those exposed; all is mere conjecture upon this
point; but the inference is very strong that it has a very injurious effect, producing headaches,
weariness, and other similar symptoms.

"Recent pamphlets lay the blame of all the bad effects of anthracite furnaces and stoves to
the carbonic oxide mingled in the air. I think these pamphlets have a bad influence. Excessive
dryness also has bad effects. So also the excessive heat in the evenings and coolness in the
mornings has a share in these evils. But how much in addition is owing to carbonic oxide, we
can not know, until we know something of the actual amount of this gas in rooms, and as yet
we know absolutely nothing definite. In fact, it will be a difficult thing to prove."

There are other difficulties connected with furnaces which should be considered. It is necessary
to perfect health that an equal circulation of the blood be preserved. The greatest impediment
to this is keeping the head warmer than the feet. This is especially to be avoided in a nation
where the brain is by constant activity drawing the blood from the extremities. And nowhere
is this more important than in schools, churches, colleges, lecture and recitation-rooms, where
the brain is called into active exercise. And yet, furnace-heated rooms always keep the feet
in the coldest air, on cool floors, while the head is in the warmest air.

Another difficulty is the fact that all bodies tend to radiate their heat to each other, till
an equal temperature exists. Thus, the human body is constantly radiating its heat to the walls,
floors, and cooler bodies around. At the same time, a thermometer is affected in the same way,
radiating its heat to cooler bodies around, so that it always marks a lower degree of heat
than actually exists in the warm air around it. Owing to these facts, the injected air of a
furnace is always warmer than is good for the lungs, and much warmer than is ever needed in
rooms warmed by radiation from fires or heated surfaces. The cooler the air we inspire, the
more oxygen is received, the faster the blood circulates, and the greater is the vigor imparted
to brain, nerves, and muscles.

Scientific men have been contriving various modes of meeting these difficulties, and at the
close of this volume some results will be given to aid a woman in selecting and managing the
most healthful and economical furnace, or in providing some better method of warming a house.
Some account will also be given of the danger involved in gas-stoves, and some other recent
inventions for cooking and heating.

VI.

HOME DECORATION.

Having duly arranged for the physical necessities of a healthful and comfortable home, we next
approach the important subject of beauty in reference to the decoration of houses. For while
the aesthetic element must be subordinate to the requirements of physical existence, and, as
a matter of expense, should be held of inferior consequence to means of higher moral growth;
it yet holds a place of great significance among the influences which make home happy and attractive,
which give it a constant and wholesome power over the young, and contributes much to the education
of the entire household in refinement, intellectual development, and moral sensibility.

Here we are met by those who tell us that of course they want their houses handsome, and that,
when they get money enough, they intend to have them so, but at present they are too poor,
and because they are poor they dismiss the subject altogether, and live without any regard to it.

We have often seen people who said that they could not afford to make their houses beautiful,
who had spent upon them, outside or in, an amount of money which did not produce either beauty
or comfort, and which, if judiciously applied, might have made the house quite charming.

For example, a man, in building his house, takes a plan of an architect. This plan includes,
on the outside, a number of what Andrew Fairservice called "curlywurlies" and "whigmaliries,"
which make the house neither prettier nor more comfortable, and which take up a good deal of
money. We would venture to say that we could buy the chromo of Bierstadt's "Sunset in the Yosemite
Valley," and four others like it, for half the sum that we have sometimes seen laid out on
a very ugly, narrow, awkward porch on the outside of a house. The only use of this porch was
to cost money, and to cause every body who looked at it to exclaim as they went by, "What ever
induced that man to put a thing like that on the outside of his house?"

Then, again, in the inside of houses, we have seen a dwelling looking very bald and bare, when
a sufficient sum of money had been expended on one article to have made the whole very pretty:
and it has come about in this way.

We will suppose the couple who own the house to be in the condition in which people generally
are after they have built a house--having spent more than they could afford on the building
itself, and yet feeling themselves under the necessity of getting some furniture. "Now," says
the housewife, "I must at least have a parlor-carpet. We must get that to begin with, and other
things as we go on." She goes to a store to look at carpets. The clerks are smiling and obliging,
and sweetly complacent. The storekeeper, perhaps, is a neighbor or a friend, and after exhibiting
various patterns, he tells her of a Brussels carpet he is selling wonderfully cheap--actually
a dollar and a quarter less a yard than the usual price of Brussels, and the reason is that
it is an unfashionable pattern, and he has a good deal of it, and wishes to close it off.

She looks at it and thinks it is not at all the kind of carpet she meant to buy, but then it
is Brussels, and so cheap! And as she hesitates, her friend tells her that she will find it
"cheapest in the end--that one Brussels carpet will outlast three or four ingrains," etc., etc.

The result of all this is, that she buys the Brussels carpet, which, with all its reduction
in price, is one third dearer than the ingrain would have been, and not half so pretty. When
she comes home, she will find that she has spent, we will say eighty dollars, for a very homely
carpet whose greatest merit it is an affliction to remember--namely, that it will outlast three
ordinary carpets. And because she has bought this carpet she can not afford to paper the walls
or put up any window-curtains, and can not even begin to think of buying any pictures.

Now let us see what eighty dollars could have done for that room. We will suppose, in the first
place, she invests in thirteen rolls of wall-paper of a lovely shade of buff, which will make
the room look sunshiny in the day-time, and light up brilliantly in the evening. Thirteen rolls
of good satin paper, at thirty-seven cents a roll, expends four dollars and eighty-one cents.
A maroon bordering, made in imitation of the choicest French style, which can not at a distance
be told from it, can be bought for six cents a yard. This will bring the paper to about five
dollars and a half; and our friends will give a day of their time to putting it on. The room
already begins to look furnished.

Then, let us cover the floor with, say, thirty yards of good matting, at fifty cents a yard.
This gives us a carpet for fifteen dollars. We are here stopped by the prejudice that matting
is not good economy, because it wears out so soon. We humbly submit that it is precisely the
thing for a parlor, which is reserved for the reception-room of friends, and for our own dressed
leisure hours. Matting is not good economy in a dining-room or a hard-worn sitting-room; but
such a parlor as we are describing is precisely the place where it answers to the very best
advantage.

We have in mind one very attractive parlor which has been, both for summer and winter, the
daily sitting-room for the leisure hours of a husband and wife, and family of children, where
a plain straw matting has done service for seven years. That parlor is in a city, and these
friends are in the habit of receiving visits from people who live upon velvet and Brussels;
but they prefer to spend the money which such carpets would cost on other modes of embellishment;
and this parlor has often been cited to us as a very attractive room.

And now our friends, having got thus far, are requested to select some one tint or color which
shall be the prevailing one in the furniture of the room. Shall it be green? Shall it be blue?
Shall it be crimson? To carry on our illustration, we will choose green, and we proceed with
it to create furniture for our room. Let us imagine that on one side of the fireplace there
be, as there is often, a recess about six feet long and three feet deep. Fill this recess with
a rough frame with four stout legs, one foot high, and upon the top of the frame have an elastic
rack of slats. Make a mattress for this, or, if you wish to avoid that trouble, you can get
a nice mattress for the sum of two dollars, made of cane-shavings or husks. Cover this with
a green English furniture print. The glazed English comes at about twenty-five cents a yard,
the glazed French at seventy-five cents a yard, and a nice article of yard-wide French twill
(very strong) is from seventy-five to eighty cents a yard.

With any of these cover your lounge. Make two large, square pillows of the same substance as
the mattress, and set up at the back. If you happen to have one or two feather pillows that
you can spare for the purpose, shake them down into a square shape and cover them with the
same print, and you will then have for pillows for your lounge--one at each end, and two at
the back, and you will find it answers for all the purposes of a sofa.

It will be a very pretty thing, now, to cut out of the same material as your lounge, sets of
lambrequins (or, as they are called, lamberkins,) a land of pendent curtain-top, as shown in
the illustration, to put over the windows, which are to be embellished with white muslin curtains.
The cornices to your windows can be simply strips of wood covered with paper to match the bordering
of your room, and the lambrequins, made of chintz like the lounge, can be trimmed with fringe
or gimp of the same color. The patterns of these can be varied according to fancy, but simple
designs are usually the prettiest. A tassel at the lowest point improves the appearance.

The curtains can be made of plain white muslin, or some of the many styles that come for this
purpose. If plain muslin is used, you can ornament them with hems an inch in width, in which
insert a strip of gingham or chambray of the same color as your chintz. This will wash with
the curtains without losing its color, or should it fade, it can easily be drawn out and replaced.

The influence of white-muslin curtains in giving an air of grace and elegance to a room is
astonishing. White curtains really create a room out of nothing. No matter how coarse the muslin,
so it be white and hang in graceful folds, there is a charm in it that supplies the want of
multitudes of other things.

Very pretty curtain-muslin can be bought at thirty-seven cents a yard. It requires six yards
for a window.

Let your men-folk knock up for you, out of rough, unplaned boards, some ottoman frames, as
described in Chapter II; stuff the tops with just the same material as the lounge, and cover
them with the self-same chintz.

Now you have, suppose your selected color to be green, a green lounge in the corner and two
green ottomans; you have white muslin curtains, with green lambrequins and borders, and your
room already looks furnished. If you have in the house any broken-down arm-chair, reposing
in the oblivion of the garret, draw it out--drive a nail here and there to hold it firm--stuff
and pad, and stitch the padding through with a long upholsterer's needle, and cover it with
the chintz like your other furniture. Presto--you create an easy-chair.

Thus can broken and disgraced furniture reappear, and, being put into uniform with the general
suit of your room, take a new lease of life.

If you want a centre-table, consider this--that any kind of table, well concealed beneath the
folds of handsome drapery of a color corresponding to the general hue of the room, will look
well. Instead of going to the cabinet-maker and paying from thirty to forty dollars upon a
little, narrow, cold, marble-topped stand, that gives just room enough to hold a lamp and a
book or two, reflect within yourself what a centre-table is made for. If you have in your house
a good, broad, generous-topped table, take it, cover it with an ample cloth of green broadcloth.
Such a cover, two and a half yards square, of fine green broadcloth, figured with black and
with a pattern-border of grape-leaves, has been bought for ten dollars. In a room we wot of,
it covers a cheap pine table, such as you may buy for four or five dollars any day; but you
will be astonished to see how handsome an object this table makes under its green drapery.
Probably you could make the cover more cheaply by getting the cloth and trimming its edge with
a handsome border, selected for the purpose; but either way, it will be an economical and useful
ornament. We set down our centre-table, therefore, as consisting mainly of a nice broadcloth
cover, matching our curtains and lounge.

We are sure that any one with "a heart that is humble" may command such a centre-table and
cloth for fifteen dollars or less, and a family of five or six may all sit and work, or read,
or write around it, and it is capable of entertaining a generous allowance of books and knick-knacks.

You have now for your parlor the following figures:

  Wall-paper and border,.................................... $5.50
  Thirty yards matting,..................................... 15.00
  Centre-table and cloth,................................... 15.00
  Muslin for three windows,.................................. 6.75
  Thirty yards green English chintz, at 25 cents,............ 7.50
  Six chairs, at $2 each,................................... 12.00

  Total,....................................................$61.75
Subtracted from eighty dollars, which we set down as the price of the
cheap, ugly Brussels carpet, we have our whole room papered, carpeted,
curtained, and furnished, and we have nearly twenty dollars remaining
for pictures.

As a little suggestion in regard to the selection, you can got Miss Oakley's charming little
cabinet picture of

  "The Little Scrap-Book Maker" for........................ $7 50
  Eastman Johnson's "Barefoot Boy,"................. (Prang) 5 00
  Newman's "Blue-fringed Gentians,"..................(Prang) 6 00
  Bierstadt's "Sunset in the Yo Semite Valley,"......(Prang)12 00

Here are thirty dollars' worth of really admirable pictures of some of our best American artists,
from which you can choose at your leisure. By sending to any leading picture-dealer, lists
of pictures and prices will be forwarded to you. These chromos, being all varnished, can wait
for frames until you can afford them. Or, what is better, because it is at once cheaper and
a means of educating the ingenuity and the taste, you can make for yourselves pretty rustic
frames in various modes. Take a very thin board, of the right size and shape, for the foundation
or "mat;" saw out the inner oval or rectangular form to suit the picture. Nail on the edge
a rustic frame made of branches of hard, seasoned wood, and garnish the corners with some pretty
device; such, for instance, as a cluster of acorns; or, in place of the branches of trees,
fasten on with glue small pine cones, with larger ones for corner ornaments. Or use the mosses
of the wood or ocean shells for this purpose. It may be more convenient to get the mat or inner
moulding from a framer, or have it made by your carpenter, with a groove behind to hold a glass.
Here are also picture-frames of pretty effect, and very simply made. The one in Fig. 42 is
made of either light or dark wood, neat, thin, and not very wide, with the ends simply broken,
off, or cut so as to resoluble a rough break. The other is white pine, sawn into simple form,
well smoothed, and marked with a delicate black tracery, as suggested in Fig. 43. This should
also be varnished, then it will take a rich, yellow tinge, which harmonizes admirably with
chromos, and lightens up engravings to singular advantage. Besides the American and the higher
range of German and English chromos, there are very many pretty little French chromos, which
can be had at prices from $1 to $5, including black walnut frames.

We have been through this calculation merely to show our readers how much beautiful effect
may be produced by a wise disposition of color and skill in arrangement. If any of our friends
should ever carry it out, they will find that the buff paper, with its dark, narrow border;
the green chintz repeated in the lounge, the ottomans, and lambrequins; the flowing, white
curtains; the broad, generous centre-table, draped with its ample green cloth, will, when arranged
together, produce an effect of grace and beauty far beyond what any one piece or even half
a dozen pieces of expensive cabinet furniture could. The great, simple principle of beauty
illustrated in this room is harmony of color.

You can, in the same way, make a red room by using Turkey red for your draperies; or a blue
room by using blue chintz. Let your chintz be of a small pattern, and one that is decided in color.

We have given the plan of a room with matting on the floor because that is absolutely the cheapest
cover. The price of thirty yards plain, good ingrain carpet, at $1.50 per yard, would be forty-five
dollars; the difference between forty-five and fifteen dollars would furnish a room with pictures
such as we have instanced. However, the same programme can be even better carried out with
a green ingrain carpet as the foundation of the color of the room.

Our friends, who lived seven years upon matting, contrived to give their parlor in winter an
effect of warmth and color by laying down, in front of the fire, a large square of carpeting,
say three breadths, four yards long. This covered the gathering-place around the fire where
the winter circle generally sits, and gave an appearance of warmth to the room.

If we add this piece of carpeting to the estimates for our room, we still leave a margin for
a picture, and make the programme equally adapted to summer and winter.

Besides the chromos, which, when well selected and of the best class, give the charm of color
which belongs to expensive paintings, there are engravings which finely reproduce much of the
real spirit and beauty of the celebrated pictures of the world. And even this does not exhaust
the resources of economical art; for there are few of the renowned statues, whether of antiquity
or of modern times, that have not been accurately copied in plaster casts; and a few statuettes,
costing perhaps five or six dollars each, will give a really elegant finish to your rooms-providing
always that they are selected with discrimination and taste.

The educating influence of these works of art can hardly be over- estimated. Surrounded by
such suggestions of the beautiful, and such reminders of history and art, children are constantly
trained to correctness of tote and refinement of thought, and stimulated--sometimes to efforts
at artistic imitation, always to the eager and intelligent inquiry about the scenes, the places,
the incidents represented. Just here, perhaps, we are met by some who grant all that we say
on the subject of decoration by works of art, and who yet impatiently exclaim, "But I have
no money to spare for any thing of this sort. I am condemned to an absolute bareness, and beauty
in my case is not to be thought of."

Are you sure, my friend? If you live in the country, or can get into the country, and have
your eyes opened and your wits about you, your house need not be condemned to an absolute bareness.
Not so long as the woods are full of beautiful ferns and mosses, while every swamp shakes and
nods with tremulous grasses, need you feel yourself an utterly disinherited child of nature,
and deprived of its artistic use.

For example: Take an old tin pan condemned to the retired list by reason of holes in the bottom,
get twenty-five cents' worth of green paint for this and other purposes, and paint it. The
holes in the bottom are a recommendation for its new service. If there are no holes, you must
drill two or three, as drainage is essential. Now put a layer one inch deep of broken charcoal
and potsherds over the bottom, and then soil, in the following proportions:

Two fourths wood-soil, such as you find in forests, under trees.

One fourth clean sand.

One fourth meadow-soil, taken from under fresh turf. Mix with this some charcoal dust.

In this soil plant all sorts of ferns, together with some few swamp-grasses; and around the
edge put a border of money-plant or periwinkle to hang over. This will need to be watered once
or twice a week, and it will grow and thrive all summer long in a corner of your room. Should
you prefer, you can suspend it by wires and make a hanging-basket.--Ferns and wood-grasses
need not have sunshine--they grow well in shadowy places.

On this same principle you can convert a salt-box or an old drum of figs into a hanging-basket.
Tack bark and pine-cones and moss upon the outside of it, drill holes and pass wires through
it, and you have a woodland hanging-basket, which will hang and grow in any corner of your house.

We have been into rooms which, by the simple disposition of articles of this kind, have been
made to have an air so poetical and attractive that they seemed more like a nymph's cave than
any thing in the real world.

Another mode of disposing of ferns is this: Take a flat piece of board sawed out something
like a shield, with a hole at the top for hanging it up. Upon the board nail a wire pocket
made of an ox-muzzle flattened on one side; or make something of the kind with stiff wire.
Line this with a sheet of close moss, which appears green behind the wire net-work. Then you
fill it with loose, spongy moss, such as you find in swamps, and plant therein great plumes
of fern and various swamp-grasses; they will continue to grow there, and hang gracefully over.
When watering, set a pail under for it to drip into. It needs only to keep this moss always
damp, and to sprinkle these ferns occasionally with a whisk-broom, to have a most lovely ornament
for your room or hall.

The use of ivy in decorating a room is beginning to be generally acknowledged. It needs to
be planted in the kind of soil we have described, in a well-drained pot or box, and to have
its leaves thoroughly washed once or twice a year in strong suds made with soft-soap, to free
it from dust and scale-bug; and an ivy will live and thrive and wind about in a room, year
in and year out, will grow around pictures, and do almost any thing to oblige you that you
can suggest to it. For instance, in a March number of Hearth and Home, [Footnote: A beautifully
illustrated agricultural and family weekly paper, edited by Donald G. Mitchell(Ik Marvel) and
Mrs. H. B. Stowe,] there is a picture of the most delightful library-window imaginable, whose
chief charm consists in the running vines that start from a longitudinal box at the bottom
of the window, and thence clamber up and about the casing and across the rustic frame-work
erected for its convenience. On the opposite page we present another plain kind of window,
ornamented with a variety of these rural economical adornings.

In the centre is a Ward's case. On one side is a pot of Fuchsia. On the other side is a Calla
Lily. In the hanging-baskets and on the brackets are the ferns and flowers that flourish in
the deep woods, and around the window is the ivy, running from two boxes; and, in case the
window has some sun, a Nasturtium may spread its bright blossoms among the leaves. Then, in
the winter, when there is less sun, the Striped Spider-wort, the Smilax and the Saxifraga.
Samantosa (or Wandering Jew) may be substituted. Pretty brackets can be made of common pine,
ornamented with odd-growing twigs or mosses or roots, scraped and varnished, or in their native
state.

A beautiful ornament for a room with pictures is German ivy. Slips of this will start without
roots in bottles of water. Slide the bottle behind the picture, and the ivy will seem to come
from fairyland, and hang its verdure in all manner of pretty curves around the picture. It
may then be trained to travel toward other ivy, and thus aid in forming green cornice along
the ceiling. We have seen some rooms that had an ivy cornice around the whole, giving the air
of a leafy bower.

There are some other odd devices to ornament a room. For example, a sponge, kept wet by daily
immersion, can be filled with flax-seed and suspended by a cord, when it will ere long be covered
with verdure and afterward with flowers.

A sweet potato, laid in a bowl of water on a bracket, or still better, suspended by a knitting-needle,
run through or laid across the bowl half in the water, will, in due time, make a beautiful
verdant ornament. A large carrot, with the smallest half cut off, scooped out to hold water
and then suspended with cords, will send out graceful shoots in rich profusion.

Half a cocoa-nut shell, suspended, will hold earth or water for plants and make a pretty hanging-garden.

It may be a very proper thing to direct the ingenuity and activity of children into the making
of hanging-baskets and vases of rustic work. The best foundations are the cheap wooden bowls,
which are quite easy to get, and the walks of children in the woods can be made interesting
by their bringing home material for this rustic work. Different colored twigs and sprays of
trees, such as the bright scarlet of the dog-wood, the yellow of the willow, the black of the
birch, and the silvery gray of the poplar, may be combined in fanciful net-work. For this sort
of work, no other investment is needed than a hammer and an assortment of different-sized tacks,
and beautiful results will be produced. Fig. 46 is a stand for flowers, made of roots, scraped
and varnished. But the greatest and cheapest and most delightful fountain of beauty is a "Ward
case."

Now, immediately all our economical friends give up in despair. Ward's cases sell all the way
along from eighteen to fifty dollars, and are, like every thing else in this lower world, regarded
as the sole perquisites of the rich.

Let us not be too sure. Plate-glass, and hot-house plants, and rare patterns, are the especial
inheritance of the rich; but any family may command all the requisites of a Ward case for a
very small sum. Such a case is a small glass closet over a well-drained box of soil. You make
a Ward case on a small scale when you turn a tumbler over a plant. The glass keeps the temperature
moist and equable, and preserves the plants from dust, and the soil being well drained, they
live and thrive accordingly. The requisites of these are the glass top and the bed of well-drained
soil.

Suppose you have a common cheap table, four feet long and two wide. Take off the top boards
of your table, and with them board the bottom across tight and firm; then line it with zinc,
and you will have a sort of box or sink on legs. Now make a top of common window-glass such
as you would get for a cucumber-frame; let it be two and a half feet high, with a ridge-pole
like a house, and a slanting roof of glass resting on this ridge-pole; on one end let there
be a door two feet square.

We have seen a Ward case made in this way, in which the capabilities for producing ornamental
effect were greatly beyond many of the most elaborate ones of the shops. It was large, and
roomy, and cheap. Common window-sash and glass are not dear, and any man with moderate ingenuity
could fashion such a glass closet for his wife; or a woman, not having such a husband, can
do it herself.

The sink or box part must have in the middle of it a hole of good size for drainage. In preparing
for the reception of plants, first turn a plant-saucer over this hole, which may otherwise
become stopped. Then, as directed for the other basket, proceed with a layer of broken charcoal
and pot-sherds for drainage, two inches deep, and prepare the soil as directed above, and add
to it some pounded charcoal, or the scrapings of the charcoal-bin. In short, more or less charcoal
and charcoal-dust is always in order in the treatment of these moist subjects, as it keeps
them from fermenting and growing sour.

Now for filling the case.

Our own native forest-ferns have a period in the winter months when they cease to grow. They
are very particular in asserting their right to this yearly nap, and will not, on any consideration,
grow for you out of their appointed season.

Nevertheless, we shall tell you what we have tried ourselves, because greenhouse ferns are
expensive, and often great cheats when you have bought them, and die on your hands in the most
reckless and shameless manner. If you make a Ward case in the spring, your ferns will grow
beautifully in it all summer; and in the autumn, though they stop growing, and cease to throw
out leaves, yet the old leaves will remain fresh and green till the time for starting the new
ones in the spring.

But, supposing you wish to start your case in the fall, out of such things as you can find
in the forest; by searching carefully the rocks and clefts and recesses of the forest, you
can find a quantity of beautiful ferns whose leaves the frost has not yet assailed. Gather
them carefully, remembering that the time of the plant's sleep has come, and that you must
make the most of the leaves it now has, as you will not have a leaf more from it till its waking-up
time in February or March. But we have succeeded, and you will succeed, in making a very charming
and picturesque collection. You can make in your Ward case lovely little grottoes with any
bits of shells, and minerals, and rocks you may have; you can lay down, here and there, fragments
of broken looking-glass for the floor of your grottoes, and the effect of them will be magical.
A square of looking-glass introduced into the back side of your case will produce charming effects.

The trailing arbutus or May-flower, if cut up carefully in sods, and put into this Ward case,
will come into bloom there a month sooner than it otherwise would, and gladden your eyes and heart.

In the fall, if you can find the tufts of eye-bright or houstonia cerulia, and mingle them
in with your mosses, you will find them blooming before winter is well over.

But among the most beautiful things for such a case is the partridge-berry, with its red plums.
The berries swell and increase in the moist atmosphere, and become intense in color, forming
an admirable ornament.

Then the ground pine, the princess pine, and various nameless pretty things of the woods, all
flourish in these little conservatories. In getting your sod of trailing arbutus, remember
that this plant forms its buds in the fall. You must, therefore, examine your sod carefully,
and see if the buds are there; otherwise you will find no blossoms in the spring.

There are one or two species of violets, also, that form their buds in the fall, and these
too, will blossom early for you.

We have never tried the wild anemones, the crowfoot, etc.; but as they all do well in moist,
shady places, we recommend hopefully the experiment of putting some of them in.

A Ward case has this recommendation over common house-plants, that it takes so little time
and care. If well made in the outset, and thoroughly drenched with water when the plants are
first put in, it will after that need only to be watered about once a month, and to be ventilated
by occasionally leaving open the door for a half-hour or hour when the moisture obscures the
glass and seems in excess.

To women embarrassed with the care of little children, yet longing for the refreshment of something
growing and beautiful, this indoor garden will be an untold treasure. The glass defends the
plant from the inexpedient intermeddling of little fingers; while the little eyes, just on
a level with the panes of glass, can look through and learn to enjoy the beautiful, silent
miracles of nature.

For an invalid's chamber, such a case would be an indescribable comfort. It is, in fact, a
fragment of the green woods brought in and silently growing; it will refresh many a weary hour
to watch it.

VII.

With this end in view, in the preceding chapters some portions of the organs and functions
of the human body have been presented, and others will now follow in connection with the practical
duties which result from them.

On the general subject of health, one recent discovery of science may here be introduced as
having an important relation to every organ and function of the body, and as being one to which
frequent reference will be made; and that is, the nature and operation of cell-life.

By the aid of the microscope, we can examine the minute construction of plants and animals,
in which we discover contrivances and operations, if not so sublime, yet more wonderful and
interesting, than the vast systems of worlds revealed by the telescope.

By this instrument it is now seen that the first formation, as well as future changes and actions,
of all plants and animals are accomplished by means of small cells or bags containing various
kinds of liquids. These cells are so minute that, of the smallest, some hundreds would not
cover the dot of a printed i on this page. They are of diverse shapes and contents, and perform
various different operations.

The first formation of every animal is accomplished by the agency of cells, and may be illustrated
by the egg of any bird or fowl. The exterior consists of a hard shell for protection, and this
is lined with a tough skin, to which is fastened the yelk, (which means the yellow,) by fibrous
strings, as seen at a, a, in the diagram. In the yelk floats the germ-cell, b, which is the
point where the formation of the future animal commences. The yelk, being lighter than the
white, rises upward, and the germ being still lighter, rises in the yelk. This is to bring
both nearer to the vitalizing warmth of the brooding mother.

New cells are gradually formed from the nourishing yelk around the germ, each being at first
roundish in shape, and having a spot near the centre, called the nucleus. The reason why cells
increase must remain a mystery, until we can penetrate the secrets of vital force--probably
forever. But the mode in which they multiply is as follows: The first change noticed in a cell,
when warmed into vital activity, is the appearance of a second nucleus within it, while the
cell gradually becomes oval in form, and then is drawn inward at the middle, like an hour-glass,
till the two sides meet. The two portions then divide, and two cells appear, each containing
its own germinal nucleus. These both divide again in the same manner, proceeding in the ratio
of 2, 4, 8, 16, and so on, until most of the yelk becomes a mass of cells.

The central point of this mass, where the animal itself commences to appear, shows, first,
a round-shaped figure, which soon assumes form like a pear, and then like a violin. Gradually
the busy little cells arrange themselves to build up heart, lungs, brain, stomach, and limbs,
for which the yelk and white furnish nutriment. There is a small bag of air fastened to one
end inside of the shell; and when the animal is complete, this air is taken into its lungs,
life begins, and out walks little chick, all its powers prepared, and ready to run, eat, and
enjoy existence. Then, as soon as the animal uses its brain to think and feel, and its muscles
to move, the cells which have been made up into these parts begin to decay, while new cells
are formed from the blood to take their place. Time with life commences the constant process
of decay and renewal all over the body.

The liquid portion of the blood consists of material formed from food, air, and water. From
this material the cells of the blood are formed: first, the white cells, which are incomplete
in formation; and then the red cells, which are completed by the addition of the oxygen received
from air in the lungs. Fig. 49 represents part of a magnified blood-vessel, a, a, in which
the round cells are the white, and the oblong the red cells, floating in the blood. Surrounding
the blood- vessels are the cells forming the adjacent membrane, bb, each having a nucleus in
its centre.

Cells have different powers of selecting and secreting diverse materials from the blood. Thus,
some secrete bile to carry to the liver, others secrete saliva for the mouth, others take up
the tears, and still others take material for the brain, muscles, and all other organs. Cells
also have a converting power, of taking one kind of matter from the blood, and changing it
to another kind. They are minute chemical laboratories all over the body, changing materials
of one kind to another form in which they can be made useful.

Both animal and vegetable substances are formed of cells. But the vegetable cells take up and
use unorganized or simple, natural matter; whereas the animal cell only takes substances already
organized into vegetable or animal life, and then changes one compound into another of different
proportions and nature.

These curious facts in regard to cell-life have important relations to the general subject
of the care of health, and also to the cure of disease, as will be noticed in following chapters.

THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

There is another portion of the body, which is so intimately connected with every other that
it is placed in this chapter as also having reference to every department in the general subject
of the care of health.

The body has no power to move itself, but is a collection of instruments to be used by the
mind in securing various kinds of knowledge and enjoyment. The organs through which the mind
thus operates are the brain and nerves. The drawing (Fig. 50) represents them.

The brain lies in the skull, and is divided into the large or upper brain, marked 1, and the
small or lower brain, marked 2. From the brain runs the spinal marrow through the spine or
backbone. From each side of the spine the large nerves run out into innumerable smaller branches
to every portion of the body. The drawing shows only some of the larger branches. Those marked
3 run to the neck and organs of the chest; those marked 4 go to the arms; those below the arms,
marked 3, go to the trunk; and those marked 5 go to the legs.

The brain and nerves consist of two kinds of nervous matter--the gray, which is supposed to
be the portion that originates and controls a nervous fluid which imparts power of action;
and the white, which seems to conduct this fluid to every part of the body.

The brain and nervous system are divided into distinct portions, each having different offices
to perform, and each acting independently of the others; as, for example, one portion is employed
by the mind in thinking, and in feeling pleasurable or painful mental emotions; another in
moving the muscles; while the nerves that run to the nose, ears, eyes, tongue, hands, and surface
generally, are employed in seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, and feeling all physical sensations.

The back portion of the spinal marrow and the nerves that run from it are employed in sensation,
or the sense of feeling. These nerves extend over the whole body, but are largely developed
in the network of nerves in the skin. The front portion of the spinal marrow and its branches
are employed in moving those muscles in all parts of the body which are controlled by the will
or choice of the mind. These are called the nerves of motion.

The nerves of sensation and nerves of motion, although they start from different portions of
the spine, are united in the same sheath or cover, till they terminate in the muscles. Thus,
every muscle is moved by nerves of motion; while alongside of this nerve, in the same sheath,
is a nerve of sensation. All the nerves of motion and sensation are connected with those portions
of the brain used when we think, feel, and choose. By this arrangement the mind knows what
is wanted in all parts of the body by means of the nerves of sensation, and then it acts by
means of the nerves of motion.

For example, when we feel the cold air on the skin, the nerves of sensation report to the brain,
and thus to the mind, that the body is growing cold. The mind thus knows that more clothing
is needed, and wills to have the eyes look for it, and the hands and feet move to get it. This
is done by the nerves of sight and of motion.

Next are the nerves of involuntary motion, which move all those parts of the head, face, and
body that are used in breathing, and in other operations connected with it. By these we continue
to breathe when asleep, and whether we will to do so or not. There are also some of the nerves
of voluntary motion that are mixed with these, which enable the mind to stop respiration, or
to regulate it to a certain extent. But the mind has no power to stop it for any great length
of time.

There is another large and important system of nerves called the sympathetic or ganglionic
system. It consists of small masses of gray and white nervous matter, that seem to be small
brains with nerves running from them. These are called ganglia, and are arranged on each side
of the spine, while small nerves from the spinal marrow run into them, thus uniting the sympathetic
system with the nerves of the spine. These ganglia are also distributed around in various parts
of the interior of the body, especially in the intestines, and all the different ganglia are
connected with each other by nerves, thus making one system. It is the ganglionic system that
carries on the circulation of the blood, the action of the capillaries, lymphatics, arteries,
and veins, together with the work of secretion, absorption, and most of the internal working
of the body, which goes forward without any knowledge or control of the mind.

Every portion of the body has nerves of sensation coming from the spine, and also branches
of the sympathetic or ganglionic system. The object of this is to form a sympathetic communication
between the several parts of the body, and also to enable the mind to receive, through the
brain, some general knowledge of the state of the whole system. It is owing to this that, when
one portion of the body is affected, other portions sympathize. For example, if one part of
the body is diseased, the stomach may so sympathize as to lose all appetite until the disease
is removed.

All the operations of the nervous system are performed by the influence of the nervous fluid,
which is generated in the gray portions of the brain and ganglia. Whenever a nerve is cut off
from its connection with these nervous centres, its power is gone, and the part to which it
ministered becomes lifeless and incapable of motion.

The brain and nerves can be overworked, and can also suffer for want of exercise, just as the
muscles do. It is necessary for the perfect health of the brain and nerves that the several
portions he exercised sufficiently, and that no part be exhausted by over-action. For example,
the nerves of sensation may be very much exercised, and the nerves of motion have but little
exercise. In this ease, one will be weakened by excess of work, and the other by the want of it.

It is found by experience that the proper exercise of the nerves of motion tends to reduce
any extreme susceptibility of the nerves of sensation. On the contrary, the neglect of such
exercise tends to produce an excessive sensibility in the nerves of sensation.

Whenever that part of the brain which is employed in thinking, feeling, and willing, is greatly
exercised by hard study, or by excessive care or emotion, the blood tends to the brain to supply
it with increased nourishment, just as it flows to the muscles when they are exercised. Over-exercise
of this portion of the brain causes engorgement of the blood-vessels. This is sometimes indicated
by pain, or by a sense of fullness in the head; but oftener the result is a debilitating drain
on the nervous system, which depends for its supply on the healthful state of the brain.

The brain has, as it were, a fountain of supply for the nervous fluid, which flows to all the
nerves, and stimulates them to action. Some brains have a larger, and some a smaller fountain;
so that a degree of mental activity that would entirely exhaust one, would make only a small
and healthful drain upon another.

The excessive use of certain portions of the brain tends to withdraw the nervous energy from
other portions; so that when one part is debilitated by excess, another fails by neglect. For
example, a person may so exhaust the brain power in the excessive use of the nerves of motion
by hard work, as to leave little for any other faculty. On the other hand, the nerves of feeling
and thinking may be so used as to withdraw the nervous fluid from the nerves of motion, and
thus debilitate the muscles.

Some animal propensities may be indulged to such excess as to produce a constant tendency of
the blood to a certain portion of the brain, and to the organs connected with it, and thus
cause a constant and excessive excitement, which finally becomes a disease. Sometimes a paralysis
of this portion of the brain results from such an entire exhaustion of the nervous fountain
and of the overworked nerves.

Thus, also, the thinking portion of the brain may be so overworked as to drain the nervous
fluid from other portions, which become debilitated by the loss. And in this way, also, the
overworked portion may be diseased or paralyzed by the excess.

The necessity for the equal development of all portions of the brain by an appropriate exercise
of all the faculties of mind and body, and the influence of this upon happiness, is the most
important portion of this subject, and will be more directly exhibited in another chapter.

VIII.

DOMESTIC EXERCISE.

In a work which aims to influence women to train the young to honor domestic labor and to seek
healthful exercise in home pursuits, there is special reason for explaining the construction
of the muscles and their connection with the nerves, these being the chief organs of motion.

The muscles, as seen by the naked eye, consist of very fine fibres or strings, bound up in
smooth, silky casings of thin membrane. But each of these visible fibres or strings the microscope
shows to be made up of still finer strings, numbering from five to eight hundred in each fibre.
And each of these microscopic fibres is a series or chain of elastic cells, which are so minute
that one hundred thousand would scarcely cover a capital O on this page.

The peculiar property of the cells which compose the muscles is their elasticity, no other
cells of the body having this property. At Fig. 51 is a diagram representing a microscopic
muscular fibre, in which the cells are relaxed, as in the natural state of rest. But when the
muscle contracts, each of its numberless cells in all its small fibres becomes widened, making
each fibre of the muscle shorter and thicker, as at Fig. 52. This explains the cause of the
swelling out of muscles when they act.

Every motion in every part of the body has a special muscle to produce it, and many have other
muscles to restore the part moved to its natural state. The muscles that move or bend any part
are called flexors, and those that restore the natural position are called extensors.

Fig. 53 represents the muscles of the arm after the skin and flesh are removed. They are all
in smooth silky cases, laid over each other, and separated both by the smooth membranes that
encase them and by layers of fat, so as to move easily without interfering with each other.
They are fastened to the bones by strong tendons and cartilages; and around the wrist, in the
drawing, is shown a band of cartilage to confine them in place. The muscle marked 8 is the
extensor that straightens the fingers after they have been closed by a flexor the other side
of the arm. In like manner, each motion of the arm and fingers has one muscle to produce it
and another to restore to the natural position.

The muscles are dependent on the brain and nerves for power to move. It has been shown that
the gray matter of the brain and spinal marrow furnishes the stimulating power that moves the
muscles, and causes sensations of touch on the skin, and the other sensations of the several
senses. The white part of the brain and spinal marrow consists solely of conducting tubes to
transmit this influence. Each of the minute fibrils of the muscles has a small conducting nerve
connecting it with the brain or spinal marrow, and in this respect each muscular fibril is
separate from every other.

When, therefore, the mind wills to move a flexor muscle of the arm, the gray matter sends out
the stimulus through the nerves to the cells of each individual fibre of that muscle, and they
contract. When this is done, the nerve of sensation reports it to the brain and mind. If the
mind desires to return the arm to its former position, then follows the willing, and consequent
stimulus sent through the nerves to the corresponding muscle; its cells contract, and the limb
is restored.

When the motion is a compound one, involving the action of several muscles at the same time,
a multitude of impressions are sent back and forth to and from the brain through the nerves.
But the person acting thus is unconscious of all this delicate and wonderful mechanism. He
wills the movement, and instantly the requisite nervous power is sent to the required cells
and fibres, and they perform the motions required. Many of the muscles are moved by the sympathetic
system, over which the mind has but little control.

Among the muscles and nerves so intimately connected, run the minute capillaries of the blood,
which furnish nourishment to all.

Fig. 54 represents an artery a a, which brings pure blood to a muscle from the heart. After
meandering through the capillaries at c, to distribute oxygen and food from the stomach, the
blood enters the vein, b, loaded with carbonic acid and water taken up in the capillaries,
to be carried to the lungs or skin, and thrown out into the air.

The manner in which the exercise of the muscles quickens the circulation of the blood will
now be explained. The veins abound in every part of every muscle, and the large veins have
valves which prevent the blood from flowing backward. If the wrist is grasped tightly, the
veins of the hand are immediately swollen. This is owing to the fact that the blood is prevented
from flowing toward the heart by this pressure, and by the vein-valves from returning into
the arteries; while the arteries themselves, being placed deeper down, are not so compressed,
and continue to send the blood into the hand, and thus it accumulates. As soon as this pressure
is removed, the blood springs onward from the restraint with accelerated motion. This same
process takes place when any of the muscles are exercised. The contraction of any muscle presses
some of the veins, so that the blood can not flow the natural way, while the valves in the
veins prevent its flowing backward. Meantime the arteries continue to press the blood along
until the veins become swollen. Then, as soon as the muscle ceases its contraction, the blood
flows faster from the previous accumulation.

If, then, we use a number of muscles, and use them strongly and quickly, there are so many
veins affected in this way as to quicken the whole circulation. The heart receives blood faster,
and sends it to the lungs faster. Then the lungs work quicker, to furnish the oxygen required
by the greater amount of blood. The blood returns with greater speed to the heart, and the
heart sends it out with quicker action through the arteries to the capillaries. In the capillaries,
too, the decayed matter is carried off faster, and then the stomach calls for more food to
furnish new and pure blood. Thus it is that exercise gives new life and nourishment to every
part of the body.

IX. But, unfortunately, there is no other duty that has been involved in more doubt and perplexity.
Were one to believe all that is said and written on this subject, the conclusion probably would
be, that there is not one solitary article of food on God's earth which it is healthful to
eat. Happily, however, there are general principles on this subject which, if understood and
applied, will prove a safe guide to any woman of common sense; and it is the object of the
following chapter to set forth these principles.

All material things on earth, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, can be resolved into sixty-two
simple substances, only fourteen of which are in the human body; and these, in certain proportions,
in all mankind.

Thus, in a man weighing 154 lbs. are found, 111 lbs. oxygen gas, and 14 lbs. hydrogen gas,
which, united, form water; 21 lbs. carbon; 3 lbs. 8 oz. nitrogen gas; 1 lb. 12 oz. 190 grs.
phosphorus; 2 lbs. calcium, the chief ingredient of bones; 2 oz. fluorine; 2 oz. 219 grs. sulphur;
2 oz 47 grs. chlorine; 2 oz. 116 grs. sodium; 100 grs. iron; 290 grs. potassium; 12 grs. magnesium;
and 2 grs. silicon.

These simple substances are constantly passing out of the body through the lungs, skin, and
other excreting organs.

It is found that certain of these simple elements are used for one part of the body, and others
for other parts, and this in certain regular proportions. Thus, carbon is the chief element
of fat, and also supplies the fuel that combines with oxygen in the capillaries to produce
animal heat. The nitrogen which we gain from our food and the air is the chief element of muscle;
phosphorus is the chief element of brain and nerves; and calcium or lime is the hard portion
of the bones. Iron is an important element of blood, and silicon supplies the hardest parts
of the teeth, nails, and hair.

Water, which is composed of the two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, is the largest portion of the
body, forming its fluids; there is four times as much of carbon as there is of nitrogen in
the body; while there is only two per cent as much phosphorus as carbon. A man weighing one
hundred and fifty-four pounds, who leads an active life, takes into his stomach daily from
two to three pounds of solid food, and from five to six pounds of liquid. At the same time
he takes into his lungs, daily, four or five thousand gallons of air. This amounts to three
thousand pounds of nutriment received through stomach and lungs, and then expelled from the
body, in one year; or about twenty times the man's own weight.

The change goes on in every minute point of the body, though in some parts much faster than
in others; as set forth in the piquant and sprightly language of Dr. O. W. Holmes [Footnote:
Atlantic Almanac, 1869, p. 40.], who, giving a vivid picture of the constant decay and renewal
of the body, says:

"Every organized being always lives immersed in a strong solution of its own elements."

"Sometimes, as in the case of the air-plant, the solution contains all its elements; but in
higher plants, and in animals generally, some of the principal ones only. Take our own bodies,
and we find the atmosphere contains the oxygen and the nitrogen, of which we are so largely
made up, as its chief constituents; the hydrogen, also, in its watery vapor; the carbon, in
its carbonic acid. What our air-bath does not furnish us, we must take in the form of nourishment,
supplied through the digestive organs. But the first food we take, after we have set up for
ourselves, is air, and the last food we take is air also. We are all chameleons in our diet,
as we are all salamanders in our habitats, inasmuch as we live always in the fire of our own
smouldering combustion; a gentle but constant flame, fanned every day by the same forty hogsheads
of air which furnish us not with our daily bread, which we can live more than a day without
touching, but with our momentary, and oftener than momentary, aliment, without which we can
not live five minutes."

"We are perishing and being born again at every instant. We do literally enter over and over
again into the womb of that great mother, from whom we get our bones, and flesh, and blood,
and marrow. 'I die daily' is true of all that live. If we cease to die, particle by particle,
and to be born anew in the same proportion, the whole movement of life comes to an end, and
swift, universal, irreparable decay resolves our frames into the parent elements."

"The products of the internal fire which consumes us over and over again every year, pass off
mainly in smoke and steam from the lungs and the skin. The smoke is only invisible, because
the combustion is so perfect. The steam is plain enough in our breaths on a frosty morning;
and an over-driven horse will show us, on a larger scale, the cloud that is always arising
from own bodies."

"Man walks, then, not only in a vain show, but wrapped in an uncelestial aureole of his own
material exhalations. A great mist of gases and of vapor rises day and night from the whole
realm of living nature. The water and the carbonic acid which animals exhale become the food
of plants, whose leaves are at once lungs and mouths. The vegetable world reverses the breathing
process of the animal creation, restoring the elements which that has combined and rendered
effete for its own purposes, to their original condition. The salt-water ocean is a great aquarium.
The air ocean in which we live is a 'Wardian case,' of larger dimensions."

It is found that the simple elements will not nourish the body in their natural state, but
only when organized, either as vegetable or animal food; and, to the dismay of the Grahamite
or vegetarian school, it is now established by chemists that animal and vegetable food contain
the same elements, and in nearly the same proportions.

Thus, in animal food, carbon predominates in fats, while in vegetable food it shows itself
in sugar, starch, and vegetable oils. Nitrogen is found in animal food in the albumen, fibrin,
and caseine; while in vegetables it is in gluten, albumen, and caseine.

It is also a curious fact that, in all articles of food, the elements that nourish diverse
parts of the body are divided into separable portions, and also that the proportions correspond
in a great degree to the wants of the body. For example, a kernel of wheat contains all the
articles demanded for every part of the body. Fig. 55 represents, upon an enlarged scale, the
position and proportions of the chief elements required. The white central part is the largest
in quantity, and is chiefly carbon in the form of starch, which supplies fat and fuel for the
capillaries. The shaded outer portion is chiefly nitrogen, which nourishes the muscles, and
the dark spot at the bottom is principally phosphorus, which nourishes the brain and nerves.
And these elements are in due proportion to the demands of the body. A portion of the outer
covering of a wheat-kernel holds lime, silica, and iron, which are needed by the body, and
which are found in no other part of the grain. The woody fibre is not digested, but serves
by its bulk and stimulating action to facilitate digestion. It is therefore evident that bread
made of unbolted flour is more healthful than that made of superfine flour. The process of
bolting removes all the woody fibre; the lime needed for the bones; the silica for hair, nails,
and teeth; the iron for the blood; and most of the nitrogen and phosphorus needed for muscles,
brain, and nerves.

Experiments on animals prove that fine flour alone, which is chiefly carbon, will not sustain
life more than a month, while unbolted flour furnishes all that is needed for every part of
the body. There are cases where persons can not use such coarse bread, on account of its irritating
action on inflamed coats of the stomach. For such, a kind of wheaten grit is provided, containing
all the kernel of the wheat, except the outside woody fibre.

When the body requires a given kind of diet, specially demanded by brain, lungs, or muscles,
the appetite will crave food for it until the necessary amount of this article is secured.
If, then, the food in which the needed aliment abounds is not supplied, other food will be
taken in larger quantities than needed until that amount is gained. For all kinds of food have
supplies for every want of the body, though in different proportions. Thus, for example, if
the muscles are worked a great deal, food in which nitrogen abounds is required, and the appetite
will continue until the requisite amount of nitrogen is secured. If, then, food is taken which
has not the requisite quantity, the consequence is, that more is taken than the system can
use, while the vital powers are needlessly taxed to throw off the excess.

These facts were ascertained by Liebig, a celebrated German chemist and physicist, who, assisted
by his government, conducted experiments on a large scale in prisons, in armies, and in hospitals.
Among other results, he states that those who use potatoes for their principal food eat them
in very much larger quantities than their bodies would demand if they used also other food.
The reason is, that the potato has a very large proportion of starch that supplies only fuel
for the capillaries and very little nitrogen to feed the muscles. For this reason lean meat
is needed with potatoes.

In comparing wheat and potatoes we find that in one hundred parts wheat there are fourteen
parts nitrogen for muscle, and two parts phosphorus for brain and nerves. But in the potato
there is only one part in one hundred for muscle, and nine tenths of one part of phosphorus
for brain and nerves.

The articles containing most of the three articles needed generally in the body are as follows:
for fat and heat-making--butter, lard, sugar, and molasses; for muscle-making--lean meat, cheese,
peas, beans, and lean fishes; for brain and nerves--shell-fish, lean meats, peas, beans, and
very active birds and fishes who live chiefly on food in which phosphorus abounds. In a meat
diet, the fat supplies carbon for the capillaries and the lean furnishes nutriment for muscle,
brain, and nerves. Green vegetables, fruits, and berries furnish the acid and water needed.

In grains used for food, the proportions of useful elements are varied; there is in some more
of carbon and in others more of nitrogen and phosphorus. For example, in oats there is more
of nitrogen for the muscles, and less carbon for the lungs, than can be found in wheat. In
the corn of the North, where cold weather demands fuel for lungs and capillaries, there is
much more carbon to supply it than is found in the Southern corn.

From these statements it may be seen that one of the chief mistakes in providing food for families
has been in changing the proportions of the elements nature has fitted for our food. Thus,
fine wheat is deprived by bolting of some of the most important of its nourishing elements,
leaving carbon chiefly, which, after supplying fuel fur the capillaries, must, if in excess,
be sent out of the body; thus needlessly taxing all the excreting organs. So milk, which contains
all the elements needed by the body, has the cream taken out and used for butter, which again
is chiefly carbon. Then, sugar and molasses, cakes and candies, are chiefly carbon, and supply
but very little of other nourishing elements, while to make them safe much exercise in cold
and pure air is necessary. And yet it is the children of the rich, housed in chambers and school-rooms
most of their time, who are fed with these dangerous dainties, thus weakening their constitutions,
and inducing fevers, colds, and many other diseases. The proper digestion of food depends on
the wants of the body, and on its power of appropriating the aliment supplied. The best of
food can not be properly digested when it is not needed. All that the system requires will
be used, and the rest will be thrown out by the several excreting organs, which thus are frequently
over-taxed, and vital forces are wasted. Even food of poor quality may digest well if the demands
of the system are urgent. The way to increase digestive power is to increase the demand for
food by pure air and exercise of the muscles, quickening the blood, and arousing the whole
system to a more rapid and vigorous rate of life.

Rules for persons in full health, who enjoy pure air and exercise, are not suitable for those
whose digestive powers are feeble, or who are diseased. On the other hand, many rules for invalids
are not needed by the healthful, while rules for one class of invalids will not avail for other
classes. Every weak stomach has its peculiar wants, and can not furnish guidance for others.

We are now ready to consider intelligently the following general principles in regard to the
proper selection of food:

Vegetable and animal food are equally healthful if apportioned to the given circumstances.

In cold weather, carbonaceous food, such as butter, fats, sugar, molasses, etc., can be used
more safely than in warm weather. And they can be used more safely by those who exercise in
the open air than by those of confined and sedentary habits.

Students who need food with little carbon, and women who live in the house, should always seek
coarse bread, fruits, and lean meats, and avoid butter, oils, sugar, and molasses, and articles
containing them.

Many students and women using little exercise in the open air, grow thin and weak, because
the vital powers are exhausted in throwing off excess of food, especially of the carbonaceous.
The liver is especially taxed in such cases, being unable to remove all the excess of carbonaceous
matter from, the blood, and thus "biliousness" ensues, particularly on the approach of warm
weather, when the air brings less oxygen than in cold.

Fig. 56 shows one important feature of the digestive organs relating to this point. The part
marked LM shows the muscles of the inner coat of the stomach, which run in one direction, and
CM shows the muscles of the outer coat, running in another direction.

The best method is for several days to take their ordinary exercise and eat only one or two
articles of simple food, such as bread and milk, or bread and butter with cooked fruit, or
lean meat with bread and vegetables, and at the same time eat less than the appetite demands.
Then on the following two days, take just enough to satisfy the appetite, and on the third
day notice the quantity which satisfies. After this, decide before eating that only this amount
of simple food shall be taken. A woman, therefore, should provide dishes for her family which
are free from these stimulating condiments. For this reason also, soups, jellies, and arrow-root
should have bread or crackers mixed with them.

We thus see why children should not have cakes and candies allowed them between meals.

X.

HEALTHFUL DRINKS.

There is no direction in which a woman more needs both scientific knowledge and moral force
than in using her influence to control her family in regard to stimulating beverages.

There are some facts recently revealed by the microscope in regard to alcoholic drinks, which
every woman should understand and regard. It has been shown in a previous chapter that every
act of mind, either by thought, feeling, or choice, causes the destruction of certain cells
in the brain and nerves. It now is proved by microscopic science [Footnote: For those statements
the writer is indebted to Maudsley, a recent writer on Microscopic Physiology.] that the kind
of nutrition furnished to the brain by the blood to a certain extent decides future feelings,
thoughts, and volitions. The cells of the brain not only abstract from the blood the healthful
nutrition, but also are affected in shape, size, color, and action by unsuitable elements in
the blood. This is especially the case when alcohol is taken into the stomach, from whence
it is always carried to the brain. The consequence is, that it affects the nature and action
of the brain-cells, until a habit is formed which is automatic; that is, the mind loses the
power of controlling the brain, in its development of thoughts, feelings, and choices as it
would in the natural state, and is itself controlled by the brain. In this condition a real
disease of the brain is created, called oino-mania, (see Glossary,) and the only remedy is
total abstinence, and that for a long period, from the alcoholic poison. And what makes the
danger more fearful is, that the brain-cells never are so renewed but that this pernicious
stimulus will bring back the disease in full force, so that a man once subject to it is never
safe except by maintaining perpetual and total abstinence from every kind of alcoholic drink.
Dr. Day, who for many years has had charge of an inebriate asylum, states that he witnessed
the dissection of the brain of a man once an inebriate, but for many years in practice of total
abstinence, and found its cells still in the weak and unnatural state produced by earlier indulgences.

There has unfortunately been a difference of opinion among medical men as to the use of alcohol.
Liebig, the celebrated writer on animal chemistry, having found that both sugar and alcohol
were heat-producing articles of food, framed a theory that alcohol is burnt in the lungs, giving
off carbonic acid and water, and thus serving to warm the body. But modern science has proved
that it is in the capillaries that animal heat is generated, and it is believed that alcohol
lessens instead of increasing the power of the body to bear the cold. Sir John Koss, in his
Arctic voyage, proved by his own experience and that of his men that cold-water drinkers could
bear cold longer and were stronger than any who used alcohol.

Carpenter, a standard writer on physiology, says the objection to a habitual use of even small
quantities of alcoholic drinks is, that "they are universally admitted to possess a poisonous
character," and "tend to produce a morbid condition of body;" while "the capacity for enduring
extremes of heat and cold, or of mental or bodily labor, is diminished rather than increased
by their habitual employment."

Prof. J. Bigelow, of Harvard University, says, "Alcohol is highly stimulating, heating, and
intoxicating, and its effects are so fascinating that when once experienced there is danger
that the desire for them may be perpetuated."

Dr. Bell and Dr. Churchill, both high medical authorities, especially in lung disease, for
which whisky is often recommended, come to the conclusion that "the opinion that alcoholic
liquors have influence in preventing the deposition of tubercle is destitute of any foundation;
on the contrary, their use predisposes to tubercular deposition." And "where tubercle exists,
alcohol has no effect in modifying the usual course, neither does it modify the morbid effects
on the system." He adds, "Chemical experiments have demonstrated that the action of alcohol
on the digestive fluid is to destroy its active principle, the pepsin, thus confirming the
observations of physiologists, that its use gives rise to serious disorders of the stomach
and malignant aberration of the whole economy."

We are now prepared to consider the great principles of science, common sense, and religion,
which should guide every woman who has any kind of influence or responsibility on this subject.
It is allowed by all medical men that pure water is perfectly healthful and supplies all the
liquid needed by the body; and also that by proper means, which ordinarily are in the reach
of all, water can be made sufficiently pure.

It is allowed by all that milk, and the juices of fruits, when taken into the stomach, furnish
water that is always pure, and that our bread and vegetable food also supply it in large quantities.
There are besides a great variety of agreeable and healthful beverages, made from the juices
of fruit, containing no alcohol, and agreeable drinks, such as milk, cocoa, and chocolate,
that contain no stimulating principles, and which are nourishing and healthful.

As one course, then, is perfectly safe and another involves great danger, it is wrong and sinful
to choose the path of danger. There is no peril in drinking pure water, milk, the juices of
fruits, and infusions that are nourishing and harmless. But there is great danger to the young,
and to the commonwealth, in patronizing the sale and use of alcoholic drinks. The religion
of Christ, in its distinctive feature, involves generous self-denial for the good of others,
especially for the weaker members of society. And again he teaches, "We, then, that are strong
ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves."

This Christian principle also applies to the common drinks of the family, tea and coffee.

It has been shown that the great end for which Jesus Christ came, and for which he instituted
the family state, is the training of our whole race to virtue and happiness, with chief reference
to an immortal existence. In this mission, of which woman is chief minister, as before stated,
the distinctive feature is self-sacrifice of the wiser and stronger members to save and to
elevate the weaker ones. The children and the servants are these weaker members, who by ignorance
and want of habits of self-control are in most danger. It is in this aspect that we are to
consider the expediency of using tea and coffee in a family. Moreover, all housekeepers will
allow that they can not regulate these drinks in their kitchens, where the ignorant use them
to excess.

Although there is little hope of banishing these drinks, there is still a chance that something
may be gained in attempts to regulate their use by the rules of temperance. If, then, a housekeeper
can not banish tea and coffee entirely, she may use her influence to prevent excess, both by
her instructions, and by the power of control committed more or less to her hands.

It is important for every housekeeper to know that the health of a family very much depends
on the purity of water used for cooking and drinking. There are three causes of impure and
unhealthful water. One is, the existence in it of vegetable or animal matter, which can be
remedied by filtering through sand and charcoal. Another cause is, the existence of mineral
matter, especially in limestone countries, producing diseases of the bladder. This is remedied
in a measure by boiling, which secures a deposit of the lime on the vessel used. The third
cause is, the corroding of zinc and lead used in pipes and reservoirs, producing oxides that
are slow poisons. The only remedy is prevention, by having supply-pipes made of iron, like
gas-pipe, instead of zinc and lead; or the lately invented lead pipe lined with tin, which
metal is not corrosive. The obstacle to this is, that the trade of the plumbers would be greatly
diminished by the use of reliable pipes. When water must be used from supply-pipes of lead
or zinc, it is well to let the water run some time before drinking it and to use as little
as possible, taking milk instead; and being further satisfied for inner necessities by the
water supplied by fruits and vegetables. The water in these is always pure. But in using milk
as a drink, it must be remembered that it is also rich food, and that less of other food must
be taken when milk is thus used, or bilious troubles will result from excess of food.

The use of opium, especially by women, is usually caused at first by medical prescriptions
containing it. All that has been stated as to the effect of alcohol in the brain is true of
opium; while, to break a habit thus induced is almost hopeless, Every woman who takes or who
administers this drug, is dealing as with poisoned arrows, whose wounds are without cure.

The use of tobacco in this country, and especially among young boys, is increasing at a fearful
rate. On this subject, we have the unanimous opinion of all medical men; the following being
specimens.

A distinguished medical writer thus states the case: "Every physician knows that the agreeable
sensations that tempt to the use of tobacco are caused by nicotine, which is a rank poison,
as much so as prussic acid or arsenic. When smoked, the poison is absorbed by the blood of
the mouth, and carried to the brain. When chewed, the nicotine passes to the blood through
the mouth and stomach. In both cases, the whole nervous system is thrown, into abnormal excitement
to expel the poison, and it is this excitement that causes agreeable sensations. The excitement
thus caused is invariably followed by a diminution of nervous power, in exact proportion to
the preceding excitement to expel the evil from the system."

Few will dispute the general truth and effect of the above statement, so that the question
is one to be settled on the same principle as applies to the use of alcoholic drinks. Is it,
then, according to the generous principles of Christ's religion, for those who are strong and
able to bear this poison, to tempt the young, the ignorant, and the weak to a practice not
needful to any healthful enjoyment, and which leads multitudes to disease, and often to vice?
For the use of tobacco tends always to lessen nerve-power, and probably every one out of five
that indulges in its use awakens a morbid craving for increased stimulus, lessens the power
of self-control, diminishes the strength of the constitution, and sets an example that influences
the weak to the path of danger and of frequent ruin.

The great danger of this age is an increasing, intense worldliness, and disbelief in the foundation
principle of the religion of Christ, that we are to reap through everlasting ages the consequences
of habits formed in this life. In the light of his word, they only who are truly wise "shall
shine as the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness, as the stars, forever and ever."

It is increased faith or belief in the teachings of Christ's religion, as to the influence
of this life upon the life to come, which alone can save our country and the world from that
inrushing tide of sensualism and worldliness, now seeming to threaten the best hopes and prospects
of our race.

And woman, as the chief educator of our race, and the prime minister of the family state, is
bound in the use of meats and drinks to employ the powerful and distinctive motives of the
religion of Christ in forming habits of temperance and benevolent self-sacrifice for the good
of others.

XI.

CLEANLINESS.

Both the health and comfort of a family depend, to a great extent, on cleanliness of the person
and the family surroundings. True cleanliness of person involves the scientific treatment of
the skin. This is the most complicated organ of the body, and one through which the health
is affected more than through any other; and no persons can or will he be so likely to take
proper care of it as those by whom its construction and functions are understood.

Fig. 57 is a very highly magnified portion of the skin. The layer marked 1 is the outside,
very thin skin, called the cuticle or scarf skin. This consists of transparent layers of minute
cells, which are constantly decaying and being renewed, and the white scurf that passes from
the skin to the clothing is a decayed portion of these cells. This part of the skin has neither
nerves nor blood-vessels.

The dark layer, marked 2, 7, 8, is that portion of the true skin which gives the external color
marking diverse races. In the portion of the dark layer marked 3, 4, is seen a network of nerves
which run from two branches of the nervous trunks coming from the spinal marrow. These arc
nerves of sensation, by which the sense of touch or feeling is performed. Fig. 58 represents
the blood-vessels, (intermingled with the nerves of the skin,) which divide into minute capillaries
that act like the capillaries of the lungs, taking oxygen from the air, and giving out carbonic
acid. At a, and b are seen the roots of two hairs, which abound in certain parts of the skin,
and are nourished by the blood of the capillaries.

At Fig. 59 is a magnified view of another set of vessels, called the lymphatics or absorbents.
These are extremely minute vessels that interlace with the nerves and blood-vessels of the
skin. Their office is to aid in collecting the useless, injurious, or decayed matter, and carry
it to certain reservoirs, from which it passes into some of the large veins, to be thrown out
through the lungs, bowels, kidneys, or skin. These absorbent or lymphatic; vessels have mouths
opening on the surface of the true skin, and, though covered by the cuticle, they can absorb
both liquids and solids that are placed in close contact with the skin. In proof of this, one
of the main trunks of the lymphatics in the hand can be cut off from all communication with
other portions, and tied up: and if the hand is immersed in milk a given time, it will be found
that the milk has been, absorbed through the cuticle and fills the lymphatics. In this way,
long-continued blisters on the skin will introduce the blistering matter into the blood through
the absorbents, and then the kidneys will take it up from the blood passing through them to
carry it out of the body, and thus become irritated and inflamed by it.

There are also oil-tubes, imbedded in the skin, that draw off oil from the blood. This issues
on the surface and spreads over the cuticle to keep it soft and moist. But the most curious
part of the skin is the system of innumerable minute perspiration-tubes. Fig. 60 is a drawing
of one very greatly magnified. These tubes open on the cuticle, and the openings are called
pores of the skin. They descend into the true skin, and there form a coil, as is seen in the
drawing. These tubes are hollow, like a pipe-stem, and their inner surface consists of wonderfully
minute capillaries filled with the impure venous blood. And in these small tubes the same process
is going on as takes places when the carbonic acid and water of the blood are exhaled from
the lungs. The capillaries of these tubes through the whole skin of the body are thus constantly
exhaling the noxious and decayed particles of the body, just as the lungs pour them out through
the mouth and nose.

It has been shown that the perspiration-tubes are coiled up into a ball at their base. The
number and extent of these tubes are astonishing. In a square inch on the palm of the hand
have been counted, through a microscope, thirty-five hundred of these tubes. Each one of them
is about a quarter of an inch in length, including its coils. This makes the united lengths
of these little tubes to be seventy-three feet to a square inch. Their united length, over
the whole body is thus calculated to be equal to twenty-eight miles. What a wonderful apparatus
this! And what mischiefs must ensue when the drainage from the body of such an extent as this
becomes obstructed!

But the inside of the body also has a skin, as have all its organs. The interior of the head,
the throat, the gullet, the lungs, the stomach, and all the intestines, are lined with a skin.
This is called the mucous membrane, because it is constantly secreting from the blood a slimy
substance called mucus. When it accumulates in the lungs, it is called phlegm. This inner skin
also has nerves, blood-vessels, and lymphatics. The outer skin joins to the inner at the month,
the nose, and other openings of the body, and there is a constant sympathy between the two
skins, and thus between the inner organs and the surface of the body.

SECRETING ORGANS.

Those vessels of the body which draw off certain portions of the blood and change it into a
new form, to be employed for service or to be thrown out of the body, are called secreting
organs. The skin in this sense is a secreting organ, as its perspiration-tubes secrete or separate
the bad portions of the blood, and send them off.

Of the internal secreting organs, the liver is the largest. Its chief office is to secrete
from the blood all matter not properly supplied with oxygen. For this purpose, a set of veins
carries the blood of all the lower intestines to the liver, where the imperfectly oxidized
matter is drawn off in the form of bile, and accumulated in a reservoir called the gall-bladder.
Thence it passes to the place where the smaller intestines receive the food from the stomach,
and there it mixes with this food. Then it passes through the long intestines, and is thrown
out of the body through the rectum. This shows how it is, that want of pure and cool air and
exercise causes excess of bile, from lack of oxygen. The liver also has arterial blood sent
to nourish it, and corresponding veins to return this blood to the heart. So there are two
sets of blood-vessels for the liver--one to secrete the bile, and the other to nourish the
organ itself.

The kidneys secrete from the arteries that pass, through them all excess of water in the blood,
and certain injurious substances. These are carried through small tubes to the bladder, and
thence thrown out of the body.

The pancreas, a whitish gland, situated in the abdomen below the stomach, secretes from the
arteries that pass through it the pancreatic juice, which unites with the bile from the liver,
in preparing the food for nourishing the body.

There are certain little glands near the eyes that secrete the tears, and others near the mouth
that secrete the saliva, or spittle.

These organs all have arteries sent to them to nourish them, and also veins to carry away the
impure blood. At the same time, they secrete from the arterial blood the peculiar fluid which
it is their office to supply.

All the food that passes through the lower intestines which is not drawn off by the lacteals
or by some of these secreting organs, passes from the body through a passage called the rectum.

Learned men have made very curious experiments; to ascertain how much the several organs throw
out of the body, It is found that the skin throws off five out of eight pounds of the food
and drink, or probably about three or four pounds a day. The lungs throw off one quarter as
much as the skin, or about a pound a day. The remainder is carried off by the kidneys and lower
intestines.

There is such a sympathy and connection between all the organs of the body, that when one of
them is unable to work, the others perform the office of the feeble one. Thus, if the skin
has its perspiration-tubes closed up by a chill, then all the poisonous matter that would have
been thrown out through them must be emptied out either by the lungs, kidneys, or bowels.

When all these organs are strong and healthy, they can bear this increased labor without injury.
But if the lungs are weak, the blood sent from the skin by the chill engorges the weak blood-vessels,
and produces an inflammation of the lungs. Or it increases the discharge of a slimy mucous
substance, that exudes from the skin of the lungs. This fills up the air-vessels, and would
very soon end life, were it not for the spasms of the lungs, called coughing, which throw off
this substance.

If, on the other hand, the bowels are weak, a chill of the skin sends the blood into all the
blood-vessels of the intestines, and produces inflammation there, or else an excessive secretion
of the mucous substance, which is called a diarrhea. Or if the kidneys are weak, there is an
increased secretion and discharge from them, to an unhealthy and injurious extent.

This connection between the skin and internal organs is shown, not only by the internal effects
of a chill on the skin; but by the sympathetic effect on the skin when these internal organs
suffer. For example, there are some kinds of food that will irritate and influence the stomach
or the bowels; and this, by sympathy, will produce an immediate eruption on the skin. Some
persons, on eating strawberries, will immediately be affected with a nettle-rash. Others can
not eat certain shell-fish without being affected in this way. Many humors on the face are
caused by a diseased state of the internal organs with which the skin sympathizes.

This short account of the construction of the skin, and of its intimate connection with the
internal organs, shows the philosophy of those modes of medical treatment that are addressed
to this portion of the body.

It is on this powerful agency that the steam-doctors rely, when, by moisture and heat, they
stimulate all the innumerable perspiration-tubes and lymphatics to force out from the body
a flood of unnaturally excited secretions; while it is "kill or cure," just as the chance may
meet or oppose the demands of the case. It is the skin also that is the chief basis of medical
treatment in the Water Cure, whose slow processes are as much safer as they are slower.

At the same time it is the ill-treatment or neglect of the skin which, probably, is the cause
of disease and decay to an incredible extent. The various particulars in which this may be
seen will now be pointed out. In the management and care of this wonderful and complex part
of the body, many mistakes have been made.

The most common one is the misuse of the bath, especially since cold water cures have come
into use. This mode of medical treatment originated with an ignorant peasant, amid a population
where outdoor labor had strengthened nerves and muscles and imparted rugged powers to every
part of the body. It was then introduced into England and America without due consideration
or knowledge of the diseases habits, or real condition of patients, especially of women. The
consequence was a mode of treatment too severe and exhausting; and many practices were spread
abroad not warranted by true medical science.

But in spite of these mistakes and abuses, the treatment of the skin for disease by the use
of cold water has become an accepted doctrine of the most learned medical practitioners. It
is now held by all such that fevers can be detected in their distinctive features by the thermometer,
and that all fevers can be reduced by cold baths and packing in the wet sheet, in the mode
employed in all water-cures. Directions for using this method will be given in another place.

It has been supposed that large bath-tubs for immersing the whole person are indispensable
to the proper cleaning of the skin. This is not so. A wet towel, applied every morning to the
skin, followed by friction in pure air, is all that is absolutely needed; although a full bath
is a great luxury. Access of air to every part of the skin when its perspiratory tubes are
cleared and its blood-vessels are filled by friction is the best ordinary bath.

In early life, children should be washed all over, every night or morning, to remove impurities
from the skin. But in this process, careful regard should be paid to the peculiar constitution
of a child. Very nervous children sometimes revolt from cold water, and like a tepid bath.
Others prefer a cold bath; and nature should be the guide. It must be remembered that the skin
is the great organ of sensation, and in close connection with brain, spine, and nerve-centres:
so that what a strong nervous system can bear with advantage is too powerful and exhausting
for another. As age advances, or as disease debilitates the body, great care should be taken
not to overtax the nervous system by sudden shocks, or to diminish its powers by withdrawing
animal heat to excess. Persons lacking robustness should bathe or use friction in a warm room;
and if very delicate, should expose only a portion of the body at once to cold air.

Johnson, a celebrated writer on agricultural chemistry, tells of an experiment by friction
on the skin of pigs, whose skins are like that of the human race. He treated six of these animals
with a curry-comb seven weeks, and left three other pigs untouched. The result was a gain of
thirty-three pounds more of weight, with the use of five bushels less of food for those curried,
than for the neglected ones. This result was owing to the fact that all the functions of the
body were more perfectly performed when, by friction, the skin was kept free from filth and
the blood in it exposed to the air. The same will be true of the human skin. A calculation
has been made on this fact, by which it is estimated that a man, by proper care of his skin,
would save over thirty-one dollars in food yearly, which is the interest on over five hundred
dollars. If men will give as much care to their own skin, as they give to currying a horse,
they will gain both health and wealth.

XII.

CLOTHING.

There is no duty of those persons having control of a family where principle and practice are
more at variance than in regulating the dress of young girls, especially at the most important
and critical period of life. It is a difficult duty for parents and teachers to contend with
the power of fashion, which at this time of a young girl's life is frequently the ruling thought,
and when to be out of the fashion, to be odd and not dress as all her companions do, is a mortification
and grief that no argument or instructions can relieve. The mother is often so overborne that,
in spite of her better wishes, the daughter adopts modes of dress alike ruinous to health and
to beauty.

The greatest protection against such an emergency is to train a child to understand the construction
of her own body and to impress upon her, in early days, her obligations to the invisible Friend
and Guardian of her life, the "Former of her body and the Father of her spirit," who has committed
to her care so precious and beautiful a casket. And the more she can be made to realize the
skill and beauty of construction shown in her earthly frame, the more will she feel the obligation
to protect it from injury and abuse.

It is a singular fact that the war of fashion has attacked most fatally what seems to be the
strongest foundation, and defense of the body, the bones. For this reason, the construction
and functions of this part of the body will now receive attention.

The bones are covered with a thin skin or membrane, filled with small blood-vessels which convey
nourishment to them,

Where the hones unite with others to form joints, they are covered with cartilage, which is
a smooth, white, elastic substance. This enables the joints to move smoothly, while its elasticity
prevents injuries from sudden jars.

The joints are bound together by strong, elastic bands called ligaments, which hold them firmly
and prevent dislocation.

Between the ends of the bones that unite to form joints are small sacks or bags, that contain
a soft lubricating fluid. This answers the same purpose fur the joints as oil in making machinery
work smoothly, while the supply is constant and always in exact proportion to the demand.

If you will examine the leg of some fowl, you can see the cartilage that covers the ends of
the bones at the joints, and the strong white ligaments that bind the joints together.

The health, of the bones depends on the proper nourishment and exercise of the body as much
as that of any other part. When a child is feeble and unhealthy, or when it grows up without
exercise, the bones do not become firm and hard as they are when the body is healthfully developed
by exercise. The size as well as the strength of the bones, to a certain extent, also depend
upon exercise and good health.

The chief supporter of the body is the spine, which consists of twenty-four small bones, interlocked
or hooked into each other, while between them are elastic cushions of cartilage which aid in
preserving the upright, natural position. Fig. 61 shows three of the spinal bones, hooked into
each other, the dark spaces showing the disks or flat circular plates of cartilage between them.

The spine is held in its proper position, partly by the ribs, partly by muscles, partly by
aid of the elastic disks, and partly by the close packing of the intestines in front of it.

The upper part of the spine is often thrown out of its proper position by constant stooping
of the head over books or work. This affects the elastic disks so that they grow thick at the
back side and thinner at the front side by such constant pressure. The result is the awkward
projection of the head forward which is often seen in schools and colleges.

Another distortion of the spine is produced by tight dress around the waist. The liver occupies
the right side of the body and is a solid mass, while on the other side is the larger part
of the stomach, which is often empty. The consequence of tight dress around the waist is a
constant pressure of the spine toward the unsupported part where the stomach lies. Thus the
elastic dials again are compressed; till they become thinner on one side than the other, and
harden into that condition. This produces what is called the lateral curvature of the spine,
making one shoulder higher than the other.

The compression of the lower part of the waist is especially dangerous at the time young girls
first enter society and are tempted to dress according to the fashion. Many a school-girl,
whose waist was originally of a proper and healthful size, has gradually pressed the soft bones
of youth until the lower ribs that should rise and fall with every breath, become entirely
unused. Then the abdominal breathing, performed by the lower part of the lungs, ceases; the
whole system becomes reduced in strength; the abdominal muscles that hold up the interior organs
become weak, and the upper ones gradually sink upon the lower. This pressure of the upper interior
organs upon the lower ones, by tight dress, is increased by the weight of clothing resting
on the hips and abdomen. Corsets, as usually worn, have no support from the shoulders, and
consequently all the weight of dress resting upon or above them presses upon the hips and abdomen,
and this in such a way as to throw out of use and thus weaken the most important supporting
muscles of the abdomen, and impede abdominal breathing.

The diaphragm is a kind of muscular floor, extending across the centre of the body, on which
the heart and lungs rest. Beneath it are the liver, stomach, and the abdominal viscera, or
intestines, which are supported by the abdominal muscles, running upward, downward, and crosswise.
When these muscles are thrown out of use, they lose their power, the whole system of organs
mainly resting on them for support can not continue in their naturally snug, compact, and rounded
form, but become separated, elongated, and unsupported. The stomach begins to draw from above
instead of resting on the viscera beneath. This in some cases causes dull and wandering pains,
a sense of pulling at the centre of the chest, and a drawing downward at the pit of the stomach.
Then as the support beneath is really gone, there is what is often called "a feeling of goneness."
This is sometimes relieved by food, which, so long as it remains in a solid form, helps to
hold up the falling superstructure. This displacement of the stomach, liver, and spleen interrupts
their healthful functions, and dyspepsia and biliary difficulties not unfrequently are the result.

As the stomach and its appendages fall downward, the diaphragm, which holds up the heart and
lungs, must descend also. In this state of things, the inflation of the lungs is less and less
aided by the abdominal muscles, and is confined chiefly to their upper portion. Breathing sometimes
thus becomes quicker and shorter on account of the elongated or debilitated condition of the
assisting organs. Consumption not unfrequently results from this cause.

The heart also feels the evil. "Palpitations," "flutterings," "sinking feelings," all show
that, in the language of Scripture, "the heart trembleth, and is moved out of its place."

But the lower intestines are the greatest sufferers from this dreadful abuse of nature. Having
the weight of all the unsupported organs above pressing them into unnatural and distorted positions,
the passage of the food is interrupted, and inflammations, indurations, and constipation, are
the frequent result. Dreadful ulcers and cancers may be traced in some instances to this cause.

Although these internal displacements are most common among women, some foolish members of
the other sex are adopting customs of dress, in girding the central portion of the body, that
tend to similar results.

But this distortion brings upon woman peculiar distresses. The pressure of the whole superincumbent
mass on the pelvic or lower organs induces sufferings proportioned in acuteness to the extreme
delicacy and sensitiveness of the parts thus crushed. And the intimate connection of these
organs with the brain and whole nervous system renders injuries thus inflicted the causes of
the most extreme anguish, both of body and mind. This evil is becoming so common, not only
among married women, but among young girls, as to be a just cause for universal alarm.

How very common these sufferings are, few but the medical profession can realize, because they
are troubles that must be concealed. Many a woman is moving about in uncomplaining agony who,
with any other trouble involving equal suffering, would be on her bed surrounded by sympathizing
friends.

The terrible sufferings that are sometimes thus induced can never be conceived of, or at all
appreciated from, any use of language. Nothing that the public can be made to believe on this
subject will ever equal the reality. Not only mature persons and mothers, but fair young girls
sometimes, are shut up for months and years as helpless and suffering invalids from this cause.
This may be found all over the land. And there frequently is a horrible extremity of suffering
in certain forms of this evil, which no woman of feeble constitution can ever be certain may
not be her doom. Not that in all cases this extremity is involved, but none can say who will
escape it.

In regard to this, if one must choose for a friend or a child, on the one hand, the horrible
torments inflicted by savage Indians or cruel inquisitors on their victims, or, on the other,
the protracted agonies that result from such deformities and displacements, sometimes the former
would be a merciful exchange.

And yet this is the fate that is coming to meet the young as well as the mature in every direction.
And tender parents are unconsciously leading their lovely and hapless daughters to this awful doom.

There is no excitement of the imagination in what is here indicated. If the facts and details
could be presented, they would send a groan of terror all over the land. For it is not one
class, or one section, that is endangered. In every part of our country the evil is progressing.

And, as if these dreadful ills were not enough, there have been added methods of medical treatment
at once useless, torturing to the mind, and involving great liability to immoralities.

In hope of abating these evils, drawings are given (Fig. 62 and Fig. 63) of the front and back
of a jacket that will preserve the advantages of the corset without its evils. This jacket
may at first be fitted to the figure with corsets underneath it, just like the waist of a dress.
Then, delicate whalebones can be used to stiffen the jacket, so that it will take the proper
shape, when the corset may be dispensed with. The buttons below are to hold all articles of
dress below the waist by button-holes. By this method, the bust is supported as well as by
corsets, while the shoulders support from above, as they should do, the weight of the dress
below. No stiff bone should be allowed to press in front, and the jacket should be so loose
that a full breath can be inspired with ease, while in a sitting position.

The proper way to dress a young girl is to have a cotton or flannel close-fitting jacket next
the body, to which the drawers should be buttoned. Over this, place the chemise; and over that,
such a jacket as the one here drawn, to which should be buttoned the hoops and other skirts.
Thus every article of dress will be supported by the shoulders. The sleeves of the jacket can
be omitted, and in that ease a strong lining, and also a tape binding, must surround the arm-hole,
which should be loose.

It is hoped that increase of intelligence and moral power among mothers, and a combination
among them to regulate fashions, may banish the pernicious practices that have prevailed. If
a school-girl dress without corsets and without tight belts could be established as a fashion,
it would be one step gained in the right direction. Then if mothers could secure daily domestic
exercise in chambers, eating-rooms and parlors in loose dresses, a still farther advance would
be secured.

A friend of the writer informs her that her daughter had her wedding outfit made up by a fashionable
milliner in Paris, and every dress was beautifully fitted to the form, and yet was not compressing
to any part. This was done too without the use of corsets, the stiffening being delicate and
yielding whalebones.

Not only parents but all having the care of young girls, especially those at boarding-schools,
have a fearful responsibility resting upon them in regard to this important duty.

In regard to the dressing of young children, much discretion is needed to adapt dress to circumstances
and peculiar constitutions. The leading fact must be borne in mind that the skin is made strong
and healthful by exposure to light and pure air, while cold air, if not excessive, has a tonic
influence. If the skin of infants is rubbed with the hand till red with blood, and then exposed
naked to sun and air in a well-ventilated room, it will be favorable to health.

There is a constitutional difference in the skin of different children in regard to retaining
the animal heat manufactured within, so that some need more clothing than others for comfort.
Nature is a safe guide to a careful nurse and mother, and will indicate by the looks and actions
of a child when more clothing is needful. As a general rule, it is safe for a healthful child
to wear as little clothing as suffices to keep it from complaining of cold. Fifty years ago,
it was not common for children to wear as much under-clothing as they now do. The writer well
remembers how even girls, though not of strong constitutions, used to play for hours in the
snow-drifts without the protection of drawers, kept warm by exercise and occasional runs to
an open fire. And multitudes of children grew to vigorous maturity through similar exposures
to cold air-baths, and without the frequent, colds and sicknesses so common among children
of the present day, who are more carefully housed and warmly dressed. But care was taken that
the feet should be kept dry and warmly clad, because, circulation being feebler in the extremities,
this precaution was important.

It must also be considered that age brings with it decrease in vigor of circulation, and the
consequent generation of heat, so that more warmth of air and clothing is needed at an advanced
period of life than is suitable for the young.

These are the general principles which must be applied with modification to each individual
case. A child of delicate constitution must have more careful protection from cold air than
is desirable for one more vigorous, while the leading general principle is retained that cold
air is a healthful tonic for the skin whenever it does not produce an uncomfortable chilliness.

XIII.

GOOD COOKING.

There are but a few things on which health, and happiness depend more than on the manner in
which food is cooked. The abundance of splendid material we have in America is in great contrast
with the style of cooking most prevalent in our country. How one longs to show people what
might have been done with the raw material out of which all these monstrosities were concocted!

In writing on cooking, the main topics should be first, bread; second, butter; third, meat;
fourth, vegetables; and fifth, tea--by which last is meant, generally, all sorts of warm, comfortable
drinks served out in tea-cups, whether they be called tea, coffee, chocolate, broma, or what
not. But it is to be regretted that this article is the exception, and not the rule, on our
tables. A beef steak, which three or four days of keeping might render palatable, is served
up to us palpitating with freshness, with all the toughness of animal muscle yet warm. This
is ordinarily called "stock." The grease, which rises to the top of the fluid, may be easily
removed when cold. Lacking cream, boiled milk is better than cold.

XIV.

Sir James Wylie, of the Russian imperial service, states that in the soldiers' barracks, three
times as many were taken sick on the shaded side as on the sunny side; though both sides communicated,
and discipline, diet, and treatment were the same. The eminent French surgeon, Dupuytren, cured
a lady whose complicated diseases baffled for years his own and all other medical skill, by
taking her from a dark room to an abundance of daylight.

Florence Nightingale writes: "Second only to fresh air in importance for the sick is light.
Not only daylight but direct sunlight is necessary to speedy recovery, except in a small number
of cases. Instances, almost endless, could be given where, in dark wards, or wards with only
northern exposure, or wards with borrowed light, even when properly ventilated, the sick could
not be, by any means, made speedily to recover."

In the prevalence of cholera, it was invariably the case that deaths were more numerous in
shaded streets or in houses having only northern exposures than in those having sunlight. Several
physicians have stated to the writer that, in sunny exposures, women after childbirth gained
strength much faster than those excluded from sunlight. In the writer's experience, great nervous
debility has been always immediately lessened by sitting in the sun, and still more by lying
on the earth and in open air, a blanket beneath, and head and eyes protected, under the direct
rays of the sun.

Some facts in physiology and natural philosophy have a bearing on this subject. It seems to
be settled that the red color of blood is owing to iron contained in the red blood-cells, while
it is established as a fact that the sun's rays are metallic, having "vapor of iron" as one
element. It is also true that want of light causes a diminution of the red and an increase
of the imperfect white blood-cells, and that this sometimes results in a disease called leucoemia,
while all who live in the dark have pale and waxy skins, and flabby, weak muscles. Thus it
would seem that it is the sun that imparts the iron and color to the blood. These things being
so, the customs of society that bring sleeping hours into daylight, and working and study hours
into the night, are direct violations of the laws of health. The laws of health are the laws
of God, and "sin is the transgression of law."

To this we must add the great neglect of economy as well as health in substituting unhealthful
gaslight, poisonous, anthracite warmth, for the life-giving light and warmth of the sun. Millions
and millions would be saved to this nation in fuel and light, as well as in health, by returning
to the good old ways of our forefathers, to rise with the sun, and retire to rest "when the
bell rings for nine o'clock." Thus, late rising not only injures the person and family which
indulge in it, but interferes with the rights and convenience of the community; while early
rising imparts corresponding benefits of health, promptitude, vigor of action, economy of time,
and general effectiveness both to the individuals who practice it and to the families and community
of which they are a part.

CHAPTER XV.

It is only the training of the family state according to its true end and aim that is to secure
to woman her true position and rights. When the family is instituted by marriage, it is man
who is the head and chief magistrate by the force of his physical power and requirement of
the chief responsibility; not less is he so according to the Christian law, by which, when
differences arise, the husband has the deciding control, and the wife is to obey. "Where love
is, there is no law;" but where love is not, the only dignified and peaceful course is for
the wife, however much his superior, to "submit, as to God and not to man."

But this power of nature and of religion, given to man as the controlling head, involves the
distinctive duty of the family state, self-sacrificing love. The husband is to "honor" the
wife, to love her as himself, and thus account her wishes and happiness as of equal value with
his own. But more than this, he is to love her "as Christ loved the Church;" that is, he is
to "suffer" for her, if need be, in order to support and elevate and ennoble her. The father
then is to set the example of self-sacrificing love and devotion; and the mother, of Christian
obedience when it is required. Every boy is to be trained for his future domestic position
by labor and sacrifices for his mother and sisters. It is the brother who is to do the hardest
and most disagreeable work, to face the storms and perform the most laborious drudgeries. In
the family circle, too, he is to give his mother and sister precedence in all the conveniences
and comforts of home life.

It is only those nations where the teachings and example of Christ have had most influence
that man has ever assumed his obligations of self-sacrificing benevolence in the family. And
even in Christian communities, the duty of wives to obey their husbands has been more strenuously
urged than the obligations of the husband to love his wife "as Christ loved the Church."

Here it is needful to notice that the distinctive duty of obedience to man does not rest on
women who do not enter the relations of married life. A woman who inherits property, or who
earns her own livelihood, can institute the family state, adopt orphan children and employ
suitable helpers in training them; and then to her will appertain the authority and rights
that belong to man as the head of a family. And when every woman is trained to some self-supporting
business, she will not be tempted to enter the family state as a subordinate, except by that
love for which there is no need of law.

These general principles being stated, some details in regard to domestic manners will be enumerated.

When children are alone with their parents, it is desirable to lead them to converse and to
take this as an opportunity to form proper conversational habits. But it should be a fixed
rule that, when strangers are present, the children are to listen in silence and only reply
when addressed. Unless this is secured, visitors will often be condemned to listen to puerile
chattering, with small chance of the proper attention due to guests and superiors in age and
station.

Children should be trained, in preparing themselves for the table or for appearance among the
family, not only to put their hair, face, and hands in neat order, but also their nails, and
to habitually attend to this latter whenever they wash their hands.

There are some very disagreeable tricks which many children practice even in families counted
well-bred. Such, for example, are drumming with the fingers on some piece of furniture, or
humming a tune while others are talking, or interrupting conversation by pertinacious questions,
or whistling in the house instead of out-doors, or speaking several at once and in loud voices
to gain attention. All these are violations of good-breeding, which children should be trained
to avoid, lest they should not only annoy as children, but practice the same kind of ill manners
when mature. In all assemblies for public debate, a chairman or moderator is appointed whose
business it is to see that only one person speaks at a time, that no one interrupts a person
when speaking, that no needless noises are made, and that all indecorums are avoided. Such
an officer is sometimes greatly needed in family circles.

Children should be encouraged freely to use lungs and limbs out-doors, or in hours for sport
in the house. But at other times, in the domestic circle, gentle tones and manners should be
cultivated. The words gentleman and gentlewoman came originally from the fact that the uncultivated
and ignorant classes used coarse and loud tones, and rough words and movements; while only
the refined circles habitually used gentle tones and gentle manners. For the same reason, those
born in the higher circles were called "of gentle blood." Thus it came that a coarse and loud
voice, and rough, ungentle manners, are regarded as vulgar and plebeian.

If a few brief, well-considered, and sensible rules of good manners could be suspended in every
school-room, and the children all required to commit them to memory, it probably would do more
to remedy the defects of American manners and to advance universal good-breeding than any other
mode that could be so easily adopted.

CHAPTER XVI.

The power of religion to impart dignity and importance to the ordinary and seemingly petty
details of domestic life, greatly depends upon the degree of faith in the reality of a life
to come, and of its eternal results. A woman who is training a family simply with reference
to this life may find exalted motives as she looks forward to unborn generations whose temporal
prosperity and happiness are depending upon her fidelity and skill. But one who truly and firmly
believes that this life is but the beginning of an eternal career to every immortal inmate
of her home, and that the formation of tastes, habits, and character, under her care, will
bring forth fruits of good or ill, not only through earthly generations, but through everlasting
ages; such a woman secures a calm and exalted principle of action, which no earthly motives
can impart.

CHAPTER XVII.

HABITS OF SYSTEM AND ORDER. In another trunk, or in a piece-bag, such as has been previously
described, are kept all pieces used in mending, arranged in order.

It is equally important that young girls should be taught to do some species of handicraft
that generally is done by men, and especially with reference to the frequent emigration to
new territories where well-trained mechanics are scarce. To hang wall-paper, repair locks,
glaze windows, and mend various household articles, requires a skill in the use of tools which
every young girl should acquire. If she never has any occasion to apply this knowledge and
skill by her own hands, she will often find it needful in directing and superintending incompetent
workmen.

XVIII.

GIVING IN CHARITY. Besides reducing the education of the people in all the higher walks of
intellectual, social, and even moral development, to very narrow limits, it would instantly
throw out of employment one half of the whole community.

But there is one species of "charity" which needs especial consideration.

XIX.

ECONOMY OF TIME AND EXPENSES.

Before Christ came, the Jews were not required to go forth to other nations as teachers of
religion, nor were the Jewish nation led to obedience by motives of a life to come. To them
God was revealed, both as a father and a civil ruler, and obedience to laws relating solely
to this life was all that was required. It was promised to this nation and fulfilled by constant
miraculous interpositions, that in this life, obedience to God's laws should secure health,
peace, prosperity, and long life; while for disobedience was threatened war, pestilence, famine,
and all temporal evils. These promises were constantly verified, and in the day of Solomon,
when, this nation was most obedient, the whole world was moved with wonder at its wealth and
prosperity. But up to this time, no attempt was made by God to govern the Israelites by the
rewards and penalties of the world to come.

But "when the fullness of time had come," and the race of man was prepared to receive higher
responsibilities, Jesus Christ came and "brought life and immortality to light" with a clearness
never before revealed. At the same time was revealed the fatherhood of God, not to the Jews
alone, but to the whole human race, and the consequent brotherhood of man; and these revelations
in many respects changed the whole standard of duty and obligation.

Christ came as "God manifest in the flesh," to set an example of self-sacrificing love, in
rescuing the whole family of man from the dangers of the unseen world, and also to teach and
train his disciples through all time to follow his example. And those who conform the most
consistently to his teachings and example will aim at a standard of labor and self-denial far
beyond that demanded of the Jews.

But there are cheering examples of the contrary spirit and prejudice, some of which will be
here recorded to influence and encourage others.

A lady of great wealth, high position, and elegant culture, in one of our large cities, hired
and furnished a house adjacent to her own, and, securing the aid of another benevolent and
cultivated woman, took twelve orphan girls, of different ages, and educated them under their
joint care. Not only time and money were given, but love and labor, just as if these were their
own children; and as fast as one was provided for, another was taken.

In another city, a young lady with property of her own hired a house and made it a home for
homeless and unprotected women, who paid board when they could earn it, and found a refuge
when out of employment.

In another city, the wife of one of its richest merchants, living in princely style, took two
young girls from the certain road to ruin among the vicious poor. She boarded them with a respectable
farmer, and sent them to school, and every week went out, not only to supervise them, but to
aid in training them to habits of neatness, industry, and obedience, just as if they were her
own children. Next, she hired a large house near the most degraded part of the city, furnished
it neatly and with all suitable conveniences to work, and then rented to those among the most
degraded whom she could bring to conform to a few simple rules of decency, industry, and benevolence--one
of these rules being that they should pay her the rent every Saturday night. To this motley
gathering she became chief counselor and friend, quieted their brawls, taught them to aid each
other in trouble or sickness, and strove to introduce among them that law of patient love and
kindness, illustrated by her own example. The young girls in this tenement she assembled every
Saturday at her own house--taught them to sing, heard them recite their Sunday-school lessons,
to be sure these were properly learned; taught them to make and mend their own clothing, trimmed
their bonnets, and took charge of their Sunday dress, that it might always be in order. Of
course, such benevolence drew a stream of ignorance and misery to her door; and so successful
was her labor that she hired a second house, and managed it on the same plan. One hot day in
August, a friend found her combing the head of a poor, ungainly, foreign girl. She had persuaded
a friend to take her from compassion, and she was returned because her head was in such in
a state. Finding no one else to do it, the lady herself bravely met the difficulty, and persevered
in this daily ministry till the evil was remedied, and the poor girl thus secured a comfortable
home and wages.

A young lady of wealth and position, with great musical culture and taste, found among the
poor two young girls with fine voices and great musical talent. Gaining her parents' consent,
the young lady took one of them home, trained her in music, and saw that her school education
was secured, so that when expensive masters and instruments were needed the girl herself earned
the money required, as a governess in a family of wealthy friends. Then she aided the sister;
and, as the result, one of them is married happily to a man of great wealth, and the other
is receiving a large income as a popular musical artist.

Another young girl, educated as a fine musician by her wealthy parents, at the age of sixteen
was afflicted with weak eyes and a heart complaint. She strove to solace herself by benevolent
ministries. By teaching music to children of wealthy friends she earned the means to relieve
and instruct the suffering, ignorant, and poor.

These examples may suffice to show that, even among the most wealthy, abundant modes of self-denying
benevolence may be found where there is a heart to seek them.

There is no direction in which a true Christian economy of time and money is more conspicuous
than in the style of living adopted in the family state.

Those who build stately mansions, and lay out extensive grounds, and multiply the elegancies
of life, to be enjoyed by themselves and a select few, "have their reward" in the enjoyments
that end in this life. But those who with, equal means adopt a style that enables them largely
to devote time and wealth to the elevation and improvement of their fellow-men, are laying
up never-failing treasures in heaven.

XX.

When the mind is excited by earnest intellectual effort, or by strong passions, the blood rushes
to the head and the brain is excited.

The benevolent activities called forth in our late dreadful war illustrate the blessed influence
on character and happiness in having a noble object for which to labor and suffer. In illustration
of this, may be mentioned the experience of one of the noble women who, in a sickly climate
and fervid season, devoted herself to the ministries of a military hospital. Separated from
an adored husband, deprived of wonted comforts and luxuries, and toiling in humble and unwonted
labors, she yet recalls this as one of the happiest periods of her life. And it was not the
mere exercise of benevolence and piety in ministering, comfort and relieving suffering. It
was, still more, the elevated enjoyment which only an enlarged and cultivated mind can attain,
in the inspirations of grand and far-reaching results purchased by such sacrifice and suffering.
It was in aiding to save her well-loved country from impending ruin, and to preserve to coming
generations the blessings of true liberty and self-government, that toils and suffering became
triumphant joys.

Every Christian woman who "walks by faith and not by sight," who looks forward to the results
of self-sacrificing labor for the ignorant and sinful as they will enlarge and expand through
everlasting ages, may rise to the same elevated sphere of experience and happiness. On the
contrary, the more highly cultivated the mind devoted to mere selfish enjoyment, the more are
the sources of true happiness closed and the soul left to helpless emptiness and unrest.

XXI.

THE CARE OF INFANTS.

The topic of this chapter may well be prefaced by an extract from Herbert Spencer on the treatment
of offspring. He first supposes that some future philosophic speculator, examining the course
of education of the present period, should find nothing relating to the training of children,
and that his natural inference would be that our schools were all for monastic orders, who
have no charge of infancy and childhood. They assume that these evils come without cause, or
that the cause is supernatural. Nothing of the kind. In some cases causes are inherited, but
in most cases foolish management is the cause. Consider the young, untaught mother and her
nursery legislation.

In many cases, change of air from sea to mountain, or the reverse, has an immediate healthful
influence and is superior to every other treatment.

The most critical period in the life of an infant is that of dentition or teething, especially
at the early stages. An adult has thirty-two teeth, but young children have only twenty, which
gradually loosen and are followed by the permanent teeth. When the child has ten teeth on each
jaw, all that are added are the permanent set, which should be carefully preserved; this caution
is needful, as sometimes decay in the first double teeth of the second set are supposed to
be of the transient set, and are so neglected, or are removed instead of being preserved by
plugging. When the first teeth rise so as to press against the gums, there is always more or
less inflammation, causing nervous fretfulness, and the impulse to put everything into the
mouth. Usually there is disturbed sleep, a slight fever, and greater flow of saliva; this is
often relieved by letting the child have ice to bite, tied in a rag.

Sometimes the disorder of the mouth extends to the whole system. In difficult teething, one
symptom is the jerking back of the head when taking the breath, as if in pain, owing to the
extreme soreness of the gums. This is, in extreme cases, attended with increased saliva and
a gummy secretion in the corners of the eyes, itching of the nose, redness of cheeks, rash,
convulsive twitching of lips and the muscles generally, fever, constipation, and sometimes
by a diarrhea, which last is favorable if slight; difficulty of breathing, dilation of the
pupils of the eyes, restless motion and moaning; and finally, if not relieved, convulsions
and death. The most effective relief is gained by lancing the gums. Every woman, and especially
every mother, should know the time and order in which the infant teeth come, and, when any
of the above symptoms appear, should examine the mouth, and if a gum is swollen and inflamed,
should either have a physician lance it, or if this can not be done, should perform the operation
herself. A sharp pen-knife and steady hand making incision to touch the rising tooth will cause
no more pain than a simple scratch of the gum, and usually will give speedy relief.

The temporary teeth should not be removed until the new ones appear, as it injures the jaw
and coming teeth; but as soon as a new tooth is seen pressing upward, the temporary tooth should
be removed, or the new tooth will come out of its proper place. If there is not room where
the new tooth appears, the next temporary tooth must be taken out. Great mischief has been
done by removing the first teeth before the second appear, thus making a contraction of the jaw.

Most trouble with, the teeth of young children comes from neglect to use the brush to remove
the tartar that accumulates near the gum, causing disease and decay. This disease is sometimes
called scurvy, and is shown by an accumulation around the teeth and by inflamed gums that bleed
easily. Removal of the tartar by a dentist and cleaning the teeth after every meal with a brush
will usually cure this evil, which causes loosening of the teeth and a bad breath.

Much injury is often done to teeth by using improper tooth-powder. Powdered chalk sifted through
muslin is approved by all dentists, and should be used once every day. The tooth-brush should
be used after every meal, and floss silk pressed between the teeth to remove food lodged there.
This method will usually save the teeth from decay till old age.

When an infant seems ill during the period of dentition, the following directions from an experienced
physician may be of service. It is now an accepted principle of all the medical world that
fevers are to be reduced by cold applications; but an infant demands careful and judicious
treatment in this direction; some have extremely sensitive nerves, and cold is painful. For
such, tepid sponging should be used near a fire, and the coldness increased gradually. The
sensations of the child should be the guide. Usually, but not always, children that are healthy
will learn by degrees to prefer cold water, and then it may safely be used.

When an infant becomes feverish, wrapping its body in a towel wrung out in warm, or tepid water,
and then keeping it warm in a woolen blanket, is a very safe and soothing remedy.

In case of constipation, this preparation of food is useful:

One table-spoonful of unbolted flour wet with cold water. Add one pint of hot water, and boil
twenty minutes. Add when taken up, one pint of milk. If the stomach seems delicate and irritable,
strain out the bran, but in most cases, retain it.

In case of diarrhea, walk with the child in arms a great deal in the open air, and give it
rice-water to drink.

The warmth and vital influences of the nurse are very important, and make this mode of exercise
both more soothing and more efficacious, especially in the open air, the infant being warmly clad.

In case of feverishness from teething or from any other cause, wrap the infant in a towel wrung
out in tepid water and then wrap it in a woolen blanket. The water may be cooler according
as the child is older and stronger. The evaporation of the water draws off the heat, while
the moisture soothes the nerves, and usually the child will fall into a quiet sleep. As soon
as it becomes restless, change the wet towel and proceed as before.

The leading physicians of Europe and of this country, in all cases of fevers, use water to
reduce them, by this and other modes of application. This method is more soothing than any
other, and is as effective for adults as for infants.

Some of the most distinguished physicians of New-York who have examined this chapter give their
full approval of the advice given. If there is still distrust as to this mode of using water
to reduce fevers, it will be advantageous to read an address on the use of cold applications
in fevers, delivered by Dr. William Neftel, before the New-York Academy of Medicine, published
in the New York Medical Record for November, 1868: this can be obtained by inclosing twenty
cents to the editor, with the post-office address of the applicant.

XXII.

There is no necessity for explanations on this point any farther than this; that certain parts
of the body are not to be touched except for purposes of cleanliness, and that the most dreadful
suffering comes from disobeying these commands. So in regard to practices and sins of which
a young child will sometimes inquire, the wise parent will say, that this is what children
can not understand, and about which they must not talk or ask questions. And they should be
told that it is always a bad sign, when children talk on matters which parents call vulgar
and indecent, and that the company of such children should be avoided. Disclosing details of
wrong-doing to young and curious children, often leads to the very evils feared. But parents
and teachers, in this age of danger, should be well informed and watchful; for it is not unfrequently
the case, that servants and school-mates will teach young children practices, which exhaust
the nervous system and bring on paralysis, mania, and death.

And finally, in regard to the early religious training of children, the examples of the Creator
in the early training of our race may safely be imitated. That "He is, and is a rewarder"--that
he is everywhere present--that he is a tender Father in heaven, who is grieved when any of
his children do wrong, yet ever ready to forgive those who are striving to please him by well-doing,
these are the most effective motives to save the young from the paths of danger and sin. The
rewards and penalties of the life to come are better adapted to maturer age, than to the imperfect
and often false and fearful conceptions of the childish mind. Horse-races might be so managed
as not to involve cruelty, gambling, drunkenness, and other vices. And so might theatres.

The spirit of Christ is that of self-denying benevolence; and his great aim, by his teachings
and example, was to train his followers to avoid all that should lead to sin, especially in
regard to the weaker ones of his family. Yet he made wine at a wedding, attended a social feast
on the Sabbath, [Footnote: Luke xiv. In reading this passage, please notice what kind of guests
are to be invited to the feast that Jesus Christ recommends.] reproved excess of strictness
in Sabbath-keeping generally, and forbade no safe and innocent enjoyment. In following his
example, the rulers of the family, then, will introduce the most highly exciting amusements
only in circumstances where there are such strong principles and habits of self-control that
the enjoyment will not involve sin in the actor or needless temptation to the weak.

The course pursued by our Puritan ancestors, in the period succeeding their first perils amid
sickness and savages, is an example that may safely be practiced at the present day. The young
of both sexes were educated in the higher branches, in country academies, and very often the
closing exercises were theatricals, in which the pupils were performers and their pastors,
elders, and parents, the audience. So, at social gatherings, the dance was introduced before
minister and wife, with smiling approval. The roaring fires and broad chimneys provided pure
air, and the nine o'clock bell ended the festivities that gave new vigor and zest to life,
while the dawn of the next day's light saw all at their posts of duty, with heartier strength
and blither spirits.

No indecent or unhealthful costumes offended the eye, no half-naked dancers of dubious morality
were sustained in a life of dangerous excitement, by the money of Christian people, for the
mere amusement of their night hours. No shivering drivers were deprived of comfort and sleep,
to carry home the midnight followers of fashion; nor was the quiet and comfort of servants
in hundreds of dwellings invaded for the mere amusement of their superiors in education and
advantages. The command "we that are strong, ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and
not to please ourselves," was in those days not reversed. Had the drama and the dance continued
to be regulated by the rules of temperance, health, and Christian benevolence, as in the days
of our forefathers, they would not have been so generally banished from the religious world.
And the question is now being discussed, whether they can be so regulated at the present time
as not to violate the laws, either of health or benevolence. [Footnote: Fanny Kemble Butler
remarked to the present writer that she regarded theatres wrong, chiefly because of the injury
involved to the actors. Can a Christian mother contribute money to support young women in a
profession from which she would protect her own daughter, as from degradation, and that, too,
simply for the amusement of herself and family? Would this be following the self-sacrificing
benevolence of Christ and his apostles?]

In regard to home amusements, card-playing is now indulged in, in many conscientious families
from which it formerly was excluded, and for these reasons: it is claimed that this is a quiet
home amusement, which unites pleasantly the aged with the young; that it is not now employed
in respectable society for gambling, as it formerly was; that to some young minds it is a peculiarly
fascinating game, and should be first practiced under the parental care, till the excitement
of novelty is past, thus rendering the danger to children less, when going into the world;
and, finally, that habits of self-control in exciting circumstances may and should be thus
cultivated in the safety of home. Many parents who have taken this course with their sons in
early life, believe that it has proved rather a course of safety than of danger. Still, as
there is great diversity of opinion, among persons of equal worth and intelligence, a mutual
spirit of candor and courtesy should be practiced. Some minds are torpid and phlegmatic, and
need to have the imagination stimulated: such would be benefited by this kind of reading. Others
have quick and active imaginations, and would be as much injured by excess.

The most successful mode of forming a taste for suitable reading, is for parents to select
interesting works of history and travels, with maps and pictures suited to the age and attainments
of the young, and spend an hour or two each day or evening, in aiming to make truth as interesting
as fiction. Whoever has once tried this method will find that the uninjured mind of childhood
is better satisfied with what they know is true, when wisely presented, than with the most
exciting novels, which they know are false.

XXIV.

CARE OF THE AGED.

One of the most interesting and instructive illustrations of the design of our Creator, in
the institution of the family state, is the preservation of the aged after their faculties
decay and usefulness in ordinary modes seems to be ended. By most persons this period of infirmities
and uselessness is anticipated with apprehension, especially in the case of those who have
lived an active, useful life, giving largely of service to others, and dependent for most resources
of enjoyment on their own energies.

To lose the resources of sight or hearing, to become feeble in body, so as to depend on the
ministries of others, and finally to gradually decay in mental force and intelligence, to many
seems far worse than death. Multitudes have prayed to be taken, from this life when their usefulness
is thus ended.

But a true view of the design of the family state, and of the ministry of the aged and helpless
in carrying out this design, would greatly lessen such apprehensions, and might be made a source
of pure and elevated enjoyment.

The Christian virtues of patience with the unreasonable, of self- denying labor for the weak,
and of sympathy with the afflicted, are dependent, to a great degree, on cultivation and habit,
and these can be gained only in circumstances demanding the daily exercise of these graces.
In this aspect, continued life in the aged and infirm should be regarded as a blessing and
privilege to a family, especially to the young, and the cultivation of the graces that are
demanded by that relation should be made a definite and interesting part of their education.
A few of the methods to be attempted for this end will be suggested.

In the first place, the object for which the aged are preserved in life, when in many cases
they would rejoice to depart, should be definitely kept in recollection, and a sense of gratitude
and obligation be cultivated. They should be looked up to and treated as ministers sustained
by our Heavenly Father in a painful experience, expressly for the good of those around them.
This appreciation of their ministry and usefulness will greatly lessen their trials and impart
consolation. If in hours of weariness and infirmity they wonder why they are kept in a useless
and helpless state to burden others around, they should be assured that they are not useless;
and this is not only by word, but, better still, by the manifestation of those virtues which
such opportunities alone can secure.

Another mode of cheering the aged is to engage them in the domestic games and sports which
unite the old and the young in amusement. Many a weary hour may thus be enlivened for the benefit
of all concerned. And here will often occur opportunities of self-denying benevolence in relinquishing
personal pursuits and gratification thus to promote the enjoyment of the infirm and dependent.
Reading aloud is often a great source of enjoyment to those who by age are deprived of reading
for themselves. So the effort to gather news of the neighborhood and impart it, is another
mode of relieving those deprived of social gatherings.

There is no period in life when those courtesies of good breeding which recognize the relations
of superior and inferior should be more carefully cherished than when there is need of showing
them toward those of advancing age. To those who have controlled a household, and still more
to those who in public life have been honored and admired, the decay of mental powers is peculiarly
trying, and every effort should be made to lessen the trial by courteous attention to their
opinions, and by avoiding all attempts to controvert them, or to make evident any weakness
or fallacy in their conversation.

In regard to the decay of bodily or mental faculties, much more can be done to prevent or retard
them than is generally supposed, and some methods for this end which have been gained by observation
or experience will be presented.

As the exercise of all our faculties tends to increase their power, unless it be carried to
excess, it is very important that the aged should be provided with useful employment, suited
to their strength and capacity. Nothing hastens decay so fast as to remove the stimulus of
useful activity. It should become a study with those who have the care of the aged to interest
them in some useful pursuit, and to convince them that they are in some measure actively contributing
to the general welfare. In the country and in families where the larger part of the domestic
labor is done without servants, it is very easy to keep up an interest in domestic industrial
employments. The tending of a small garden in summer--the preparation of fuel and food, the
mending of household utensils--these and many other occupations of the hands will keep alive
activity and interest, in a man; while for women there are still more varied resources. There
is nothing that so soon hastens decay and lends acerbity to age as giving up all business and
responsibility, and every mode possible should be devised to prevent this result.

As age advances, all the bodily functions move more slowly, and consequently the generation
of animal heat, by the union of oxygen and carbon in the capillaries, is in smaller proportion
than in the midday of life. For this reason some practices, safe for the vigorous, must be
relinquished by the aged; and one of these is the use of the cold bath. It has often been the
case that rheumatism has been caused by neglect of this caution. More than ordinary care should
be taken to preserve animal heat in the aged, especially in the hands and the feet.

In many families will be found an aged brother, or sister, or other relative who has no home,
and no claim to a refuge in the family circle but that of kindred. Sometimes they are poor
and homeless, for want of a faculty for self-supporting business; and sometimes they have peculiarities
of person or disposition which render their society undesirable. These are cases where the
pitying tenderness of the Saviour should be remembered, and for his sake patient kindness and
tender care be given, and he will graciously accept it as an offering of love and duty to himself.
"Inasmuch as ye have done it to the least of these my brethren, ye have done it to me."

It is sometimes the case that even parents in old age have had occasion to say with the forsaken
King Lear, "How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child!" It is right
training in early life alone that will save from this.

In the opening of China and the probable influx of its people, there is one cause for congratulation
to a nation that is failing in the virtue of reverence. The Chinese are distinguished above
all other nations for their respect for the aged, and especially for their reverence for aged
parents and conformity to their authority, even to the last. This virtue is cultivated to a
degree that is remarkable, and has produced singular and favorable results on the national
character, which it is hoped may be imparted to the land to which they are flocking in such
multitudes. For with all their peculiarities of pagan philosophy and their oriental eccentricities
of custom and practical life, they are everywhere renowned for their uniform and elegant courtesy--a
most commendable virtue, and one arising from habitual deference to the aged more than from
any other source.

XXV.

THE CASE OF SERVANTS.

In those former days most women were in good health, debility and disease being the exception.
Then, too, was seen the economy of daylight and its pleasures. Perhaps one read aloud while
others sewed, and managed in that way to keep up a great deal of reading. The work seemed to
be all gone.

XXVI.

CARE OF THE SICK.

It is interesting to notice in the histories of our Lord the prominent place given to the care
of the sick. When he first sent out the apostles, it was to heal the sick as well as to preach.
Again, when, he sent out the seventy, their first command was to "heal the sick," and next
to say, "the kingdom of God has come nigh unto you." The body was to be healed first, in order
to attend to the kingdom of God, even when it was "brought nigh."

Jesus Christ spent more time and labor in the cure of men's bodies than in preaching, even,
if we subtract those labors with his earthly father by which family homes were provided. When
he ascended to the heavens, his last recorded, words to his followers, as given by Mark, were,
that his disciples should "lay hands on the sick," that they might recover. Still more directly
is the duty of care for the sick exhibited in the solemn allegorical description of the last
day. It was those who visited the sick that were the blessed; it was those who did not visit
the sick who were told to "depart." Some-times, a gentle cathartic of castor-oil may be needful;
but it is best first to try fasting. A safe relief from injurious articles in the stomach is
an emetic of warm water; but to be effective, several tumblerfuls must be given in quick succession,
and till the stomach can receive no more. By contracting the muscles of the abdomen, the intestines
axe pressed inward and upward, and then the muscles of the diaphragm above contract and press
them downward and outward. Thus the blood is drawn to the torpid parts to stimulate to the
healthful action, while the agitation moves their contents downward. An invalid can thus exercise
the abdominal muscles in bed. The proper time is just after a meal. This exercise, continued
ten minutes a day, including short intervals of rest, and persevered in for a week or two,
will cure most ordinary cases of constipation, provided proper food is taken.

When a cold affects the head and eyes, and also impedes breathing through the nose, great relief
is gained by a wet napkin spread over the upper part of the face, covering the nose except
an opening for breath. This is to be covered by folds of flannel fastened over the napkin with
a handkerchief. So also a wet towel over the throat and whole chest, covered with folds of
flannel, often relieves oppressed lungs.

Ordinarily, a cold can be arrested on its first symptoms by coverings in bed and a bottle of
hot water, securing free perspiration. Often, at its first appearance, it can be stopped by
a spoonful or two of whisky, or any alcoholic liquor, in hot water, taken on going to bed.
Warm covering to induce perspiration will assist the process. These simple remedies are safest.
Perspiration should always be followed by a towel-bath. When food is to be given to one who
has no desire for it, beef-tea is the best in most cases.

One very important particular in the case of those who are delicate in constitution, as well
as in the case of the sick, is the preservation of warmth, especially in the hands and the
feet. The equal circulation of the blood is an important element for good health, and this
is impossible when the extremities are habitually or frequently cold. It is owing to this fact
that the coldness caused by wetting the feet is so injurious. In cases where disease or a weak
constitution causes a feeble or imperfect circulation, great pains should be taken to dress
the feet and hands warmly, especially around the wrists and ankles, where the blood-vessels
are nearest to the surface and thus most exposed to cold. Warm elastic wristlets and anklets
would save many a feeble person from increasing decay or disease.

When the circulation is feeble from debility or disease, the union of carbon and oxygen in
the capillaries is slower than in health, and therefore care should be taken to preserve the
heat thus generated by warm clothing and protection from cold draughts. In nervous debility,
it is peculiarly important to preserve the animal heat, for its excessive loss especially affects
weak nerves. Many an invalid is carelessly and habitually suffering cold feet, who would recover
health by proper care to preserve animal heat, especially in the extremities. Hot fomentations
in most cases will be as good as a blister, less painful, and safer.

Miss Ann Preston, one of the most refined as well as talented and learned female physicians,
in a published article, gives valuable instruction as to the training, of nurses. She claims
that every woman should be trained for this office, and that some who have special traits that
fit them for it should make it their daily professional business. She remarks that the indispensable
qualities in a good nurse are common sense, conscientiousness, and sympathetic benevolence:
and thus continues:

"God himself made and commissioned one set of nurses; and in doing this and adapting them to
utter helplessness and weakness, what did he do? He made them to love the dependence and to
see something to admire in the very perversities of their charge. He made them to humor the
caprices and regard both reasonable and unreasonable complainings. He made them to bend tenderly
over the disturbed and irritated, and fold them to quiet assurance in arms made soft with love;
in a word, he made mothers! And, other things being equal, whoever has most maternal tenderness
and warm sympathy with the sufferer is the best nurse." And it is those most nearly endowed
by nature with these traits who should be selected to be trained for the sacred office of nurse
to the sick, while, in all the moral training of womanhood, this ideal should be the aim.

Again, Miss Preston wisely suggests that "persons may be conscientious and benevolent and possess
good judgment in many respects, and yet be miserable nurses of the sick for want of training
and right knowledge.

"Knowledge, the assurance that one knows what to do, always gives presence of mind--and presence
of mind is important not only in a sick-room but in every home. Who has not known consternation
in a family when some one has fainted, or been burned, or cut, while none were present who
knew how to stop the flowing blood, or revive the fainting, or apply the saving application
to the burn? And yet knowledge and efficiency in such cases would save many a life, and be
a most fitting and desirable accomplishment in every woman."

"We are slow to learn the mighty influence of common agencies, and the greatness of little
things, in their bearing upon life and health. The woman who believes it takes no strength
to bear a little noise or some disagreeable announcements, and loses patience with the weak,
nervous invalid who is agonized with creaking doors or shoes, or loud, shrill voices, or rustling
papers, or sharp, fidgety motions, or the whispering so common in sick-rooms and often so acutely
distressing to the sufferer, will soon correct such misapprehensions by herself experiencing
a nervous fever."

Here the writer would put in a plea for the increasing multitudes of nervous sufferers not
confined to a sick-room, and yet exposed to all the varied sources of pain incident to an exhausted
nervous system, which often cause more intolerable and also more wearing pain than other kinds
of suffering.

"An exceeding acuteness of the senses is the result of many forms of nervous disease. A heavy
breath, an unwashed hand, a noise that would not have been noticed in health, a crooked table-cover
or bed-spread may disturb or oppress; and more than one invalid has spoken in my hearing of
the sickening effect produced by the nurse tasting her food, or blowing in her drinks to make
them cool. One woman, and a sensible woman too, told me her nurse had turned a large cushion
upon her bureau with the back part in front. She determined not to be disturbed nor to speak
of such a trifle, but after struggling three hours in vain to banish the annoyance, she was
forced to ask to have the cushion placed right."

In this place should be mentioned the suffering caused to persons of reduced nervous power
not only by the smoke of tobacco, but by the fetid effluvium of it from the breath and clothing
of persons who smoke. Many such are sickened in society and in car-traveling, and to a degree
little imagined by those who gain a dangerous pleasure at the frequent expense of the feeble
and suffering.

Miss Preston again remarks, "It is often exceedingly important to the very weak, who can take
but very little nutriment, to have that little whenever they want it. I have known invalids
sustain great injury and suffering; when exhausted for want of food, they have had to wait
and wait, feeling as if every minute was an hour, while some well-fed nurse delayed its coming.
Said a lady, 'It makes me hungry now to think of the meals she brought me upon that little
waiter when I was sick, such brown thin toast, such good broiled beef, such fragrant tea, and
every thing looking so exquisitely nice! If at any time I did not think of any thing I wanted,
nor ask for food, she did not annoy me with questions, but brought some little delicacy at
the proper time, and when it came, I could take it.'

"If there is one purpose of a personal kind for which it is especially desirable to lay up
means, it is for being well nursed in sickness; yet in the present state of society, this is
absolutely impossible, even to the wealthy, because of the scarcity of competent nurses. Families
worn down with the long and extreme illness of a member require relief from one whose feelings
will be less taxed, and who can better endure the labor.

"But alas! how often is it impossible, for love or money, to obtain one capable of taking the
burden from the exhausted sister or mother or daughter, and how often in consequence they have
died prematurely or struggled through weary years with a broken constitution. Appeal to those
who have made the trial, and you will find that very seldom have they been able to have those
who by nature or by training were competent for their duties. Ignorant, unscrupulous, inattentive--how
often they disturb and injure the patient! A physician told me that one of his patients had
died because the nurse, contrary to orders, had at a critical period washed her with cold water.
I have known one who, by stealth, quieted a fretful child with laudanum, and of others who
exhausted the sick by incessant talking. One lady said that when, to escape this distressing
garrulity, she closed her eyes, the nurse exclaimed aloud, 'Why, she is going to sleep while
I am talking to her.'

"A few only of the sensible, quiet, and loving women, whose presence everywhere is a blessing,
have qualified themselves and followed nursing as a business. Heaven bless that few! What a
sense of relief have I seen pervade a family when such a one has been procured; and what a
treasure seemed found!

"There is very commonly an extreme susceptibility in the sick to the moral atmosphere about
them. They feel the healthful influence of the presence of a true-hearted attendant and repose
in it, though they may not be able to define the cause; while dissimulation, falsehood, recklessness,
coarseness, jar terribly and injuriously on their heightened sensibilities. 'Are the Sisters
of Charity really better nurses than most other women?' I asked an intelligent lady who had
seen much of our military hospitals. 'Yes, they are,' was her reply. 'Why should it be so?'
'I think it is because with them it is a work of self-abnegation, and of duty to God, and they
are so quiet and self-forgetful in its exercise that they do it better, while many other women
show such self-consciousness and are so fussy!"

Is there any reason why every Protestant woman should not be trained for this self-denying
office as a duty owed to God? We can not better close this chapter than by one more quotation
from the same intelligent and attractive writer: "The good nurse is an artist. O the pillowy,
soothing softness of her touch, the neatness of her simple, unrustling dress, the music of
her assured yet gentle voice and tread, the sense of security and rest inspired by her kind
and hopeful face, the promptness and attention to every want, the repose that like an atmosphere
encircles her, the evidence of heavenly goodness, and love that she diffuses!" Is not such
an art as this worth much to attain?

In training children to the Christian life, one very important opportunity occurs whenever
sickness appears, in the family or neighborhood. The repression of disturbing noises, the speaking
in tones of gentleness and sympathy, the small offices of service or nursing in which children
can aid, should be inculcated as ministering to the Lord and Elder Brother of man, who has
said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done
it to me."

One of the blessed opportunities for such ministries is given to children in the cultivation
of flowers. The entrance into a sick-room of a smiling, healthful child, bringing an offering
of flowers raised by its own labor, is like an angel of comfort and love, "and alike it blesseth
him who gives and him who takes."

A time is coming when the visitation of the sick, as a part of the Christian life, will hold
a higher consideration than is now generally accorded, especially in the cases of uninteresting
sufferers who have nothing to attract kind attentions, except that they are suffering children
of our Father in heaven, and "one of the least" of the brethren of Jesus Christ.

CHAPTER XXVII.

ACCIDENTS AND ANTIDOTES.

Children should be taught the following modes of saving life, health and limbs in cases of
sudden emergency, before a medical adviser can be summoned. If it is large, lay narrow strips
of sticking-plaster obliquely across the wound. In some cases it is needful to draw a needle
and thread through the lips of the wound, and tie the two sides together.

If an artery be cut, it must be tied as quickly as possible, or the person will soon bleed
to death. The blood from an artery is a brighter red than that from the veins, and spirts out
in jets at each beat of the heart. Take hold of the end of the artery and tie it or hold it
tight till a surgeon comes. In this case, and in all cases of bad wounds that bleed much, tie
a tight bandage near and above the wound, inserting a stick into the bandage and twisting as
tight as can be borne, to stop the immediate effusion of blood.

Bathe bad bruises in hot water. Arnica water hastens a cure, but is injurious and weakening
to the parts when used too long and too freely.

A sprain is relieved from the first pains by hot fomentations, or the application of very hot
bandages, but entire rest is the chief permanent remedy. The more the limb is used, especially
at first, the longer the time required for the small broken fibres to knit together. The sprained
leg should be kept in a horizontal position. When a leg is broken, tie it to the other leg,
to keep it still till a surgeon comes. Tie a broken arm to a piece of thin wood, to keep it
still till set.

In the case of bad burns that take off the skin, creosote water is the best remedy. If this
is not at hand, wood-soot (not coal) pounded, sifted, and mixed with lard is nearly as good,
as such soot contains creosote. When a dressing is put on, do not remove it till a skin is
formed under it. If nothing else is at hand for a bad burn, sprinkle flour over the place where
the skin is off and then let it remain, protected by a bandage. The chief aim is to keep the
part without skin from the air.

In case of drowning, the aim should be to clear the throat, mouth and nostrils, and then produce
the natural action of the lungs in breathing as soon as possible, at the same time removing
wet clothes and applying warmth and friction to the skin, especially the hands and feet, to
start the circulation. The best mode of cleansing the throat and month of choking water is
to lay the person on the face, and raise the head a little, clearing the mouth and nostrils
with the finger, and then apply hartshorn or camphor to the nose. This is safer and surer than
a common mode of lifting the body by the feet, or rolling on a barrel to empty out the water.

To start the action of the lungs, first lay the person on the face and press the back along
the spine to expel all air from the lungs. Then turn the body nearly, but not quite over on
to the back, thus opening the chest so that the air will rush in if the mouth is kept open.
Then turn the body to the face again and expel the air, and then again nearly over on to the
back; and so continue for a long time. Friction, dry and warm clothing, and warm applications
should be used in connection with this process. This is a much better mode than using bellows,
which sometimes will close the opening to the windpipe. The above is the mode recommended by
Dr. Marshall Hall, and is approved by the best medical authorities.

Certain articles are often kept in the house for cooking or medical purposes, and sometimes
by mistake are taken in quantities that are poisonous.

Soda, saleratus, potash, or any other alkali can be rendered harmless in the stomach by vinegar,
tomato-juice, or any other acid. If sulphuric or oxalic acid are taken, pounded chalk in water
is the best antidote. If those are not at hand, strong soapsuds have been found effective.
Large quantities of tepid water should be drank after these antidotes are taken, so as to produce
vomiting.

Lime or baryta and its compounds demand a solution of glauber salts or of sulphuric acid.

Iodine or Iodide of Potassium demands large draughts of wheat flour or starch in water, and
then vinegar and water. The stomach should then be emptied by vomiting with as much tepid water
as the stomach can hold.

Prussic acid, a violent poison, is sometimes taken by children in eating the pits of stone
fruits or bitter almonds which contain it. The antidote is to empty the stomach by an emetic,
and give water of ammonia or chloric water. Affusions of cold water all over the body, followed
by warm hand friction, is often a remedy alone, but the above should be added if at command.
Antimony and its compounds demand drinks of oak bark, or gall nuts, or very strong green tea.

Arsenic demands oil or melted fat, with magnesia or lime water in large quantities, till vomiting
occurs.

Corrosive Sublimate, (often used to kill vermin,) and any other form of mercury, requires milk
or whites of eggs in large quantities. The whites of twelve eggs in two quarts of water, given
in the largest possible draughts every three minutes till free vomiting occurs, is a good remedy.
Flour and water will answer, though not so surely as the above. Warm water will help, if nothing
else is in reach. The same remedy answers when any form of copper, or tin, or zinc poison is
taken, and also for creosote.

Lead and its compounds require a dilution of Epsom or Glauber salts, or some strong, acid drink,
as lemon or tomatoes.

Nitrate of Silver demands salt water drank till vomiting occurs.

Phosphorus (sometimes taken by children from matches) needs magnesia and copious drinks of
gum Arabic, or gum water of any sort.

Alcohol, in dangerous quantities, demands vomiting with warm water.

When one is violently sick from excessive use of tobacco, vomiting is a relief, if it arise
spontaneously. After that, or in case it does not occur, the juice of a lemon and perfect rest,
in a horizontal position on the back, will relieve the nausea and faintness, generally soothing
the foolish and over-wrought patient into a sleep.

Opium demands a quick emetic. Give acid drinks after vomiting. If vomiting is not elicited
thus, a stomach pump is demanded. Dash cold water on the head, apply friction, and use all
means to keep the person awake and in motion.

Strychnia demands also quick emetics.

The stomach should be emptied always after taking any of these antidotes, by a warm water emetic.

In case of bleeding at the lungs, or stomach, or throat, give a tea-spoonful of dry salt, and
repeat it often. The same mode is to be used when persons are stupefied by fumes of coal, or
bad air.

In case of fire, wrap about you a blanket, a shawl, a piece of carpet, or any other woolen
cloth, to serve as protection.

XXVIII. This is better than to draw the needle through, and then take up a loop. It is better
to run a fine thread around a hole and draw it together, and then darn across it. Never be
in haste to be first in a fashion, and never go to the extremes.

XXIX. A cord of wood should be equivalent to a pile eight feet long, four feet wide and four
feet high; that is, it contains (8 X 4 X 4 = 128) one hundred and twenty-eight cubic or solid
feet. A city "load" is usually one third of a cord. Where stove-pipes pass through fire-boards,
the hole in the wood should be much larger than the pipe, so that there may be no danger of
the wood taking fire. The unsightly opening thus occasioned should be covered with tin.

In choosing the source of our light, the great points to be considered are, first, the influence
on the eyes, and secondly, economy. It is poor economy to use a bad light. Modern houses in
cities, and even in large villages, are furnished with gas; where gas is not used, sperm-oil,
kerosene or coal-oil, and candles are employed. Gas is the cheapest, (or ought to be;) and
if properly used, is as good as any. Good sperm-oil burned in an Argand lamp--that is, a lamp
with a circular wick, like the astral lamp and others--is perhaps the best; but it is expensive
and attended with many inconveniences. Good kerosene oil gives a light which leaves little
to be desired. Candles are used only on rare occasions, though many families prefer to manufacture
into candles the waste grease that accumulates in the household. The economy of any source
of light will depend so much upon local circumstances that no absolute directions can be given.

The effect produced by light on the eyes depends upon the following points: First, Steadiness.
Nothing is more injurious to the eyes than a flickering, unsteady flame. Hence, all flames
used for light-giving purposes ought to be surrounded with glass chimneys or small shades.
No naked flame can ever be steady. Second, Color. This depends greatly upon the temperature
of the flame. A hot flame gives a bright, white light; a flame which has not a high temperature
gives a dull, yellow light, which is very injurious to the eyes. In the naked gas-jet a large
portion of the flame burns at a low temperature, and the same is the case with the flame of
the kerosene lamp when the height of the chimney is not properly proportioned to the amount
of oil consumed; a high wick needs a high chimney. In the case of a well-trimmed Argand oil-lamp,
or an Argand burner for gas, the flame is in general most intensely hot, and the light is of
a clear white character.

The third point which demands attention is the amount of heat transmitted from the flame to
the eyes. It often happens that people, in order to economize light, bring the lamp quite close
to the face. This is a very bad habit. The heat is more injurious than the light. Better burn
a larger flame, and keep it at a greater distance. It is also well that various sized lamps
should be provided to serve the varying necessities of the household in regard to quantity
of light. One of the very best forms of lamp is that known as the "student's reading-lamp,"
which is, in the burner, an Argand. Provide small lamps with handles for carrying about, and
broad-bottomed lamps for the kitchen, as these are not easily upset. Hand and kitchen lamps
are best made of metal, unless they are to be used by very careful persons.

Sperm-oil, lard, tallow, etc., have been superseded to such an extent by kerosene that it is
scarcely worth while to give any special directions in regard to them. In the choice of kerosene,
attention should be paid to two points: its safety and its light-giving qualities. Kerosene
is not a simple fluid, like water; but is a mixture of several liquids, all of which boil at
different temperatures. Good kerosene oil should be purified from all that portion which boils
or evaporates at a low temperature; for it is the production of this vapor, and its mixture
with atmospheric air, that gives rise to those terrible explosions which sometimes occur when
a light is brought near a can of poor oil. To test the oil in this respect, pour a little into
an iron spoon, and heat it over a lamp until it is moderately warm to the touch. If the oil
produces vapor which can be set on fire by means of a flame held a short distance above the
surface of the liquid, it is bad. Good oil poured into a teacup or on the floor does not easily
take fire when a light is brought in contact with it. Poor oil will instantly ignite under
the same circumstances, and hence, the breaking of a lamp filled with poor oil is always attended
by great peril of a conflagration. Not only the safety but also the light-giving qualities
of kerosene are greatly enhanced by the removal of these volatile and dangerous oils. Hence,
while good kerosene should be clear in color and free from all matters which can gum up the
wick and thus interfere with free circulation and combustion, it should also be perfectly safe.
It ought to be kept in a cool, dark place, and carefully excluded from the air.

The inside of lamps and oil-cans should be cleansed with soda dissolved in water. Be careful
to drain them well, and not to let any gilding or bronze be injured by the soda coming in contact
with it. Put one table-spoonful of soda to one quart of water. Take the lamp to pieces and
clean it as often as necessary. Wipe the chimney at least once a day, and wash it whenever
mere wiping fails to cleanse it. Some persons, owing to the dirty state of their chimneys,
lose half the light which is produced. Keep dry fingers in trimming lamps. Renew the wicks
before they get too short. They should never be allowed to burn shorter than an inch and a half.

In regard to shades, which are always well to use, on lamps or gas, those made of glass or
porcelain are now so cheap that we can recommend them as the best without any reservation.
Plain shades, making the light soft and even, do not injure the eyes.

XXX.

THE CARE OF ROOMS.

It would be impossible in a work dealing, as this does, with general principles of house-keeping,
to elaborate in full the multitudinous details which arise for attention and intelligent care.
These will be more largely treated of in the book soon to be published for the present writer,
(the senior authoress of this volume.) Yet, in the different departments of family labor, there
are certain leading matters concerning which a few hints may be found useful in aiding the
reader to carry into operation the instructions and ideas of the earlier chapters of this book,
and in promoting the general comfort and convenience of families.

And first, asking the reader to bear in mind that these suggestions are chiefly applicable
to country homes, not within easy reach of all the conveniences which go under the name of
"modern improvements," we will say a few words on the care of Parlors.

Chambers and Bedrooms are of course a portion of the house to be sedulously and scrupulously
attended to, if either health or comfort are aimed at in the family. And first, every mistress
of a family should see, not only that all sleeping-rooms in her house can be well ventilated
at night, but that they actually are so.

It is not deemed necessary to add much to the earlier chapters treating of bedroom conveniences;
but one subject is of marked importance, as being characteristic of good or poor housekeeping--that
is, the making of beds.

Few servants will make a bed properly, without much attention from the mistress of the family;
and every young woman who expects to have a household of her own to manage should be able to
do it well herself, and to instruct others in doing it. A mattress, whether used on top of
a feather-bed or by itself, should in like manner be well aired and turned.

The care of the Kitchen, Cellar, and Store-room is necessarily the foundation of all proper
housekeeping.

Mosquitoes.--Close nets around a bed are the only sure protection at night against these insects.

In using any of the above-mentioned poisons, great care should be taken to guard against their
getting into any article of food or any utensil or vessel used for cooking or keeping food,
or where children can get at them.

XXXI.

THE CARE OF YARDS AND GARDENS. The longer the rows are, the easier is the after culture.

For Transplanting Trees, the autumn is the best time.

XXXII.

THE PROPAGATION OF PLANTS.

This is an occupation requiring much attention and constant care.

XXXIII.

Apples, grapes, and such like fruit can be preserved in their natural state by packing them
when dry and solid in dry sand or saw-dust, putting alternate layers of fruit and cotton, saw-dust
or sand.

XXXIV.

THE CARE OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS.

One of the most interesting illustrations of the design of our benevolent Creator in establishing
the family state is the nature of the domestic animals connected with it. At the very dawn
of life, the infant watches with delight the graceful gambols of the kitten, and soon makes
it a playmate. Meantime, its out-cries when hurt appeal to kindly sympathy, and its sharp claws
to fear; while the child's mother has a constant opportunity to inculcate kindness and care
for weak and ignorant creatures. Then the dog becomes the out-door playmate and guardian of
early childhood, and he also guards himself by cries of pain, and protects himself by his teeth.
At the same time, his faithful loving nature and caresses awaken corresponding tenderness and
care; while the parent again has a daily opportunity to inculcate these virtues toward the
helpless and dependent. As the child increases in knowledge and reason, the horse, cows, poultry,
and other domestic animals come under his notice. These do not ordinarily express their hunger
or other sufferings by cries of distress, but depend more on the developed reason and humanity
of man. And here the parent is called upon to instruct a child in the nature and wants of each,
that he may intelligently provide for their sustenance and for their protection from injury
and disease.

To assist in this important duty of home life, which so often falls to the supervision of woman,
the following information is prepared through the kindness of one of the editors of a prominent,
widely known, agricultural paper.

Domestic animals are very apt to catch the spirit and temper of their masters. A surly man
will be very likely to have a cross dog and a biting horse. A passionate man will keep all
his animals in moral fear of him, making them, snappish, and liable to hurt those of whom they
are not afraid.

It is, therefore, most important that all animals should be treated uniformly with kindness.
They are all capable of returning affection, and will show it very pleasantly if we manifest
affection for them. They also have intuitive perceptions of our emotions which we can not conceal.
A sharp, ugly dog will rarely bite a person who has no fear of him. A horse knows the moment
a man mounts or takes the reins whether he is afraid or not; and so it is with other animals.

If live stock can not be well fed, they ought not to be kept. One well wintered horse is worth
as much, as two that drag through on straw, and by browsing the hedgerows. The same is true
of oxen, and emphatically so of cows. The owner of a half-starved dog loses the use of him
almost altogether; for, at the very time--the night--when lie is most needed as a guard, he
must be off scouring the country for food.

Shelter in winter is most important for cows. They should have good tight stables or byres,
well ventilated, and so warm that water in a pail will only freeze a little on the top the
severest nights. Oxen should have the same stabling, though they bear cold better. Horses in
stables will bear almost any degree of cold, if they have all they can eat. Sheep, except young
lambs, are well enough sheltered in dry sheds, with one end open. Cattle, sheep, and dogs do
not sweat as horses do, they "loll;" that is, water or slobber runs from their tongues; hence,
they are not liable to take cold as the horse is. Hogs bear cold pretty well; but they eat
enough to convince any one that true economy lies in giving them warm sties in winter, for
the colder they are the more they eat. Fowls will not lay in cold weather unless they have
light and warm quarters.

Cleanliness is indispensable, if one would keep his animals healthy. In their wild state all
our domestic animals are very clean, and, at the same time, very healthy. The hog is not naturally
a dirty animal, but quite the reverse. He enjoys currying as much as a horse or a cow, and
would be as careful of his litter as a cat if he had a fair chance. Horses ought to be groomed
daily; cows and oxen as often as twice a week; dogs should be washed with soapsuds frequently.
Stables should be cleaned out daily. Absorbents of liquid in stables should be removed as often
as they become wet. Dry earth is one of the best absorbents, and is especially useful in the
fowl-house. Hogs in pens should have straw for their rests or lairs, and it should be often
renewed.

Parasitic Vermin.--These are lice, fleas, ticks, the scale insects, and other pests which afflict
our live stock. There are many ways of destroying them; the best and safest is a free use of
carbolic acid soap. The larger animals, as well as hogs, dogs, and sheep may be washed in strong
suds of this soap, without fear, and the application repeated after a week. This generally
destroys both the creatures and their eggs. Hen lice are best destroyed by greasing the fowls,
and dusting them with flowers of sulphur. Sitting hens must never be greased, but the sulphur
may be dusted freely in their nests, and it is well to put it in all hens' nests.

Salt and Water.--All animals except poultry require salt, and all, free supplies of fresh water.

Light.--Stables, or places where any kind of animals are confined, should have plenty of light.
Windows are not more important in a house than in a barn. The sun should come in freely; and
if it shines directly upon the stock, all the better. When beeves and sheep are fattening very
rapidly, the exclusion of the light makes them more quiet, and fatten faster; but their state
is an unnatural and hardly a healthy one.

Exercise in the open air is important for breeding animals. It is especially necessary for
horses of all kinds. Cows need very little and swine none, unless kept for breeding.

Breeding,--Always use thorough-bred males, and improvement is certain.

Horses.--The care which horses require varies with the circumstances in which the owner is
placed, and the uses to which they are put. In general, if kept stabled, they should be fed
with good upland hay, almost as much as they will eat; and if absent from the stable, and at
work most of the day, they should have all they will eat of hay, together with four to eight
quarts of oats or an equal weight of other grain or meal. Barley is good for horses, and so
is dry corn. Corn-meal put upon cut hay, wet and well-mixed, is good, steady feed, if not in
too large quantities. Four quarts a day may be fed unmixed with other grain; but if the horse
be hard worked and needs more, mix the meal with wheat bran, or linseed oil-cake meal, or use
corn and oats ground together; carrots are especially wholesome. A quart of linseed oil-cake
meal, daily, is an excellent occasional addition to a horse's food, when carrots can not be
had. It gives a lustre to his coat, and brings the new coat of hair out in the spring. A stabled
horse needs daily exercise, as much as to trot three miles. Where a horse is traveling, it
is well to give him six quarts of oats in the morning, four at noon, and six at night.

Thorough grooming is indispensable to the health of horses. Especial care should be taken of
the legs and fetlocks, that no dirt remain to cause that distressing disease, grease or scratches,
which results from filthy fetlocks and standing in dirty stables. When a horse comes in from
work on muddy roads with dirty legs, they should be immediately cleaned, the dirt brushed off,
then rubbed with straw; then, if very dirty, washed clean and rubbed dry with a piece of sacking.
A horse should never stand in a draught of cold air, if he can not turn and put his back to
it. If sweaty or warm from work, he should be blanketed, if he is to stand a minute in the
winter air. If put at once into the stable, he should be stripped and rubbed down with straw
actively for five minutes or more, and then blanketed. The blanket must be removed in an hour,
and the horse given water and feed, if it is the usual time. It will not hurt him to eat hay
when hot, unless he be thoroughly exhausted, when all food should be withheld for a while.

It is very comforting to a tired horse, when he is too hot to drink, to sponge out his mouth
with cool water. A horse should never drink when very hot, nor be turned into a yard to "cool
off," even in summer, neither should he be turned out to pasture before he is quite cool.

Cows.--Gentle but firm treatment will make a cow easy to milk and to handle in every way. If
stabled or yarded, cows should have access to water at all times, or have it frequently offered
to them. Clover hay is probably the best steady food for milk cows. Cornstalks cut up, thoroughly
soaked with water for half a day, and then sprinkled with corn or oil-cake meal is perhaps
unsurpassed as good winter food for milk cows. The amount of meal may vary. With plenty of
oil-meal, there is little danger of feeding too much, as that is loosening to the bowels and
a safe nutritious article. Corn-meal alone, in large quantities, is too heating. Roots should,
if possible, form part of the diet of a milch cow, especially before and soon after calving;
feed well before this period, yet not to make the cow very fat; but it is better to err in
that way than to have her "come in" thin. Take the calf away from the mother as soon as it
stands tip, and the separation will worry neither dam nor young. This is always best, unless
the calf is to be kept with the cow. The calf will soon learn to drink its food, if two fingers
be held in its mouth. Let it have all the first drawn milk for three days as soon as milked;
after this, skimmed milk warmed to blood heat. Soon a little fine scalded meal may be mixed
with the milk; and it will, at three to five weeks old, nibble hay and grass. It is well also
to keep a box containing some dry wheat-bran and fine corn-meal mixed in the calf-pen, so that
calves may take as much as they like.

In milking, put the fingers around the teat close to the bag; then firmly close the forefingers
of each hand alternately, immediately squeezing with the other fingers. The forefingers prevent
the milk flowing back into the bag, while the others press it out. Sit with the left knee close
to the right hind leg of the cow, the head pressed against her flank, the left hand always
ready to ward off a blow from her feet, which the gentlest cow may give almost without knowing
it, if her tender teats be cut by long nails, or if a wart be hurt, or her bag be tender. She
must be stripped dry every time she is milked, or she will dry up; and if she gives much milk,
it pays to milk three times a day, as nearly eight hours apart as possible. Never stop while
milking till done, as this will cause the cow to stop giving milk.

To tether a cow, tie her by one hind leg, making the rope fast above the fetlock joint, and
protecting the limb with a piece of an old bootleg or similar thing. The knot must be one that
will not slip; regular fetters of iron bound with leather are much better.

A cow should go unmilked two months before calving, and her milk should not be used by the
family till four days after that time.

Swine.--The filthy state of hog-pens is allowed on account of the amount of manure they will
make by working over all sorts of vegetable matter, spoiled hay, weeds, etc., etc. This is
unhealthy for the family near and also for the animal. The hog is, naturally, a cleanly animal,
and if given a chance he will keep himself very neat and clean. Breeding sows should have the
range of a small pasture, and be regularly fed. They need fresh water constantly, and often
suffer for lack of it when they have liquid swill, which they do not like to drink. All hogs
should have a warm, dry, well-littered pen to lie in, away from flies and disturbance of any
kind. They are fond of charcoal, and it is worth while frequently to throw a few handfuls where
they can get at it. It has a very beneficial effect on the appetite, regulates the tone of
the stomach and digestive organs, and can not do any harm. Pigs ought always to be well fed
and kept growing fast; and when being fattened, they should be penned always, the herd being
sorted so that all may have an equal chance. It is well to feed soft corn in the ear; but hard
corn should always be ground and cooked for pigs.

Sheep.--In the winter, sheep need deep, well-littered, dry sheds, dry yards, and hay, wheat,
or oat straw, as much as they will eat. They should be kept gaining by grain regularly fed
to them, and so distributed that each gets its share. Corn, either whole or ground, or oil-cake
meal, or both, are used for fattening sheep. They will easily surfeit themselves on any grain
except oil-meal, which is very safe feed for them, and usually economical. Strong sheep will
often drive the weaker ones away, and so get more than their share of food and make themselves
sick. This must be guarded against, and the flock sorted, keeping the weaker and stronger apart.

Sheep are very useful in clearing land of brush and certain weeds, which they gnaw down, and
kill. To accomplish this, the land must be overstocked, and it is best not to keep sheep on
short pasturage more than a few weeks at a time; but if they are returned after a few days,
it will serve as good a purpose as if they were to be kept on all the time. Sheep at pasture
must be restrained by good fences, or they will be a great nuisance. Dog-proof hedge fences
of Osage orange are to be highly recommended, wherever this plant will grow. Mutton sheep will
generally pay better to raise than merinos, but they need more care.

Poultry.--Few objects of labor are more remunerative than poultry, raised on a moderate scale.
Turkeys, when young, need great care; some animal food, dry, warm quarters, and must be kept
out of the wet grass, and kept in when it rains. As soon as fledged, they become very hardy,
and, with free range, will almost take care of themselves. Geese need water and good grass
pasture. Ducks do very well without water to swim in, if they have all they need to drink.
They will lay a great many eggs if kept shut in a pen until say eight o'clock in the morning.
If let out earlier, they wander away, and will hide their nests, and lay only about as many
eggs as they can cover. It is best to set duck's eggs under hens, and to keep young ducks shut
up in a dry roomy pen for four weeks, at least. Fowls need light, warm, dry quarters in winter,
plenty of feed, but not too much. They relish animal food, and ought to have some frequently
to make them lay. Pork or beef scrap-cake can be bought for two to three cents a pound, and
is very good for them. Any kind of grain is good for poultry. Nothing is better than wheat
screenings. Early hatched chickens must be kept in a warm, dry, sunny room, with plenty of
gravel, and the hen should have no more than eight or nine chickens to brood; though in summer,
one hen will take good care of fifteen. Little, chickens, turkeys, and ducks need frequent
feeding, and must have their water changed often. It is well to grease the body of the hen
and the heads of the chicks with lard, in order to prevent their becoming lousy.

Hens set about twenty days, and should be well fed and watered. Cold or damp weather is bad
for young fowls, and when they have been chilled, pepper-corns are a good remedy, in addition
to the warmth of an inclosed dry place.

The most absorbing part of the "Woman's question" of the present time is the remedy for the
varied sufferings of women who are widows or unmarried, and without means of support. As yet,
few are aware how many sources of lucrative enterprise and industry lie open to woman in the
employments directly connected with the family state. A woman can invest capital in the dairy
and qualify herself to superintend a dairy farm as well as a man. And if she has no capital
of her own, if well trained for this business, she can find those who have capital ready to
furnish--an investment that well managed will become profitable. And, too, the raising of poultry,
of dogs, and of sheep are all within the reach of a woman with proper abilities and training
for this business. So that if a woman chooses, she can find employment both interesting and
profitable in studying the care of domestic animals.

Bees.--But one of the most profitable as well as interesting kinds of business for a woman
is the care of bees. In a recent agricultural report, it is stated that one lady bought four
hives for ten dollars, and in five years she was offered one thousand five hundred dollars
for her stock, and refused it as not enough. In addition to this increase of her capital, in
one of these five years she sold twenty-two hives and four hundred and twenty pounds of honey.
It is also stated that in five years one man, from six colonies of bees to start with, cleared
eight thousand pounds of honey and one hundred and fifty-four colonies of bees.

The raising of bees and their management is so curious and as yet unknown an art in most parts
of our country, that any directions or advice will be omitted in this volume, as requiring
too much space, and largely set forth and illustrated in the second part. When properly instructed,
almost any woman in the city, as easily as in the country, can manage bees, and make more profit
than in any other method demanding so little time and labor. But in the modes ordinarily practiced,
few can make any great profit in this employment.

It is hoped a time is at hand when every woman will be trained to some employment by which
she can secure to herself an independent home and means to support a family, in case she does
not marry, or is left a widow, with herself and a family to support.

XXXV.

EARTH-CLOSETS.

In some particulars, the Chinese are in advance of our own nation in neatness, economy, and
healthful domestic arrangements. In China, nota particle of manure is wasted, and all that
with us is sent off in drains and sewers from water-closets and privies, is collected in a
neat manner and used for manure. This is one reason that the compact and close packing of inhabitants
in their cities is practicable, and it also accounts for the enormous yields of some of their
crops.

The earth-closet is an invention which relieves the most disagreeable item in domestic labor,
and prevents the disagreeable and unhealthful effluvium which is almost inevitable in all family
residences, The general principle of construction is somewhat like that of a water-closet,
except that in place of water is used dried earth. The resulting compost is without disagreeable
odor, and is the richest species of manure. The expense of its construction and use is no greater
than that of the common water-closet; indeed, when the outlays for plumber's work, the almost
inevitable troubles and disorders of water-pipes in a house, and the constant stream of petty
repairs consequent upon careless construction or use of water-works are considered, the earth-closet
is in itself much cheaper, besides being an accumulator of valuable matter.

To give a clear idea of its principles, mode of fabrication, and use, we can not do better
than to take advantage of the permission given by Mr. George E. Waring, Jr., of Newport, R.
I., author of an admirable pamphlet on the subject, published in 1868 by "The Tribune Association"
of New-York. Mr. Waring was formerly Agricultural Engineer of the New-York Central Park, and
has given much attention to sanitary and agricultural engineering, having published several
valuable works bearing in the same general direction. He is now consulting director of "The
Earth-Closet Company," Hartford, Ct., which manufactures the apparatus and all things appertaining
to it--any part which might be needed to complete a home-built structure. But with generous
and no less judicious freedom, they are endeavoring to extend the knowledge of this wholesome
and economical process of domestic sanitary engineering as widely as possible, and so allow
us to present the following instructions for those who may desire to construct their own apparatus.

In the brief introduction to his pamphlet, Mr. Waring says:

"It is sufficiently understood, by all who have given the least thought to the subject, that
the waste of the most vital elements of the soil's fertility, through our present practice
of treating human excrement as a thing that is to be hurried into the sea, or buried in underground
vaults, or in some other way put out of sight and out of reach, is full of danger to our future
prosperity.

"Our bodies have come out of our fertile fields; our prosperity is based on the production
and the exchange of the earth's fruits; and all our industry has its foundation in arts and
interests connected with, or dependent on, a successful agriculture.

"Liebig asserts that the greatness of the Roman empire was sapped by the Cloaca Maxima, through
which the entire sewage of Rome was washed into the Tiber. The yearly decrease of productive
power in the older grain regions of the West, and the increasing demand for manures in the
Atlantic States, sufficiently prove that our own country is no exception to the rule that has
established its sway over Europe.

"The large class who will fail to feel the force of the agricultural reasons in favor of the
reform which this pamphlet is written to uphold, will realize, more clearly than farmers will,
the importance of protecting dwellings against the gravest annoyance, the most fertile source
of disease, and the most certain vehicle of contagion."

Nevertheless, Mr. Waring thinks that the agricultural argument is no mean or unimportant one,
and says:

"The importance of any plan by which the excrement of our bodies may be returned to our fields
is in a measure shown in the following extract from an article that I furnished for the American
Agricultural Annual for 1868.

"The average population of New York City--including its temporary visitors--is probably not
less than 1,000,000. This population consumes food equivalent to at least 30,000,000 bushels
of corn in a year. Excepting the small proportion that is stored up in the bodies of the growing
young, which is fully offset by that contained in the bodies of the dead, the constituents
of the food are returned to the air by the lungs and skin, or are voided as excrement. That
which goes to the air was originally taken from the air by vegetation, and will be so taken
again: here is no waste. The excrement contains all that was furnished by the mineral elements
of the soil oil which the food was produced. This all passes into the sewers, and is washed
into the sea. Its loss to the present generation is complete."

... "30,000,000 bushels of corn contain, among other minerals, nearly 7000 tons of phosphoric
acid, and this amount is annually lost in the wasted night-soil of New-York City. [Footnote:
Other mineral constituents of food--important ones, too--are washed away in even greater quantities
through the same channels; but this element is the best for illustration, because its effect
in manure is the most striking, even so small a dressing as twenty pounds per acre, producing
a marked effect on all cereal crops. Ammonia, too, which is so important that it is usual in
England to estimate the value of manure in exact proportion to its supply of this element,
is largely yielded by human excrement.]

"Practically the human excrement of the whole country is nearly all so disposed of as to be
lost to the soil. The present population of the United States is not far from 35,000,000. On
the basis of the above calculation, their annual food contains 200,000 tons of phosphoric acid,
being the amount contained in about 900,000 tons of bones, which, at the price of the best
flour of bone, (for manure,) would be worth over $50,000,000. It would be a moderate estimate
to say that the other constituents of food are of at least equal value with the other constituents
of the bone, and to assume $50,000,000 as the money value of the wasted night-soil of the United
States every year.

"In another view, the importance of this waste can not be estimated in money. Money values
apply, rather, to the products of labor and to the exchange of these products. The waste of
fertilizing matter reaches farther than the destruction or exchange of products: it lessens
the ability to produce.

"If mill-streams were failing year by year, and steam were yearly losing force, and the ability
of men to labor were yearly growing less, the doom of our prosperity would not be more plainly
written, than if this slow but certain impoverishment of our soil were sure to continue.

.... "But the good time is coming, when (as now in China and Japan) men must accept the fact
that the soil is not a warehouse to be plundered--only a factory to be worked. Then they will
save their raw material, instead of wasting it, and, aided by nature's wonderful laws, will
weave over and over again the fabric by which we live and prosper. Men will build up as fast
as men destroy; old matters will be reproduced in new forms, and, as the decaying forests feed
the growing wood, so will all consumed food yield food again."

With the above brief extract, we shall cease using marks of quotation, as the following information
and statements are appropriated bodily, either directly or with mere modifications for brevity,
from the little pamphlet of Mr. Waring.

The earth-closet is the invention of the Rev. Henry Moule, of Fordington Vicarage, Dorsetshire,
England.

It is based on the power of clay, and the decomposed organic matter found in the soil, to absorb
and retain all offensive odors and all fertilizing matters; and it consists, essentially, of
a mechanical contrivance (attached to the ordinary seat) for measuring out and discharging
into the vault or pan below a sufficient quantity of sifted dry earth to entirely cover the
solid ordure and to absorb the urine.

The discharge of earth is effected by an ordinary pull-up similar to that used in the water-closet,
or (in the self-acting apparatus) by the rising of the seat when the weight of the person is
removed.

The vault or pan under the seat is so arranged that the accumulation may be removed at pleasure.

From the moment when the earth is discharged, and the evacuation is covered, all offensive
exhalation entirely ceases. Under certain circumstances, there may be, at times, a slight odor
as of guano mixed with earth; but this is so trifling and so local, that a commode arranged
on this plan may, without the least annoyance, be kept in use in any room.

This statement is made as the result of personal experience. Mr. Waring says:

"I have in constant use in a room in my house an earth-closet commode; and even when the pan
is entirely full, with the accumulation of a week's use, visitors examining it invariably say,
with some surprise, 'You don't mean that this particular one has been used!'"

HOW TO MAKE AN EARTH-CLOSET.

The principle on which the earth-closet is based is as free to all as is the earth itself,
and any person may adopt his own method of applying it. All that is necessary is to have a
supply of coarsely sifted sun-dried earth with which to cover the bottom of the vessel to be
used, and after use to cover the deposit. A small box of earth, and a tin scoop are sufficient
to prevent the gravest annoyance of the sickroom. But, of course, for constant use, it is desirable
to have a more convenient apparatus--something which requires less care, and is less troublesome
in many ways.

To this end, the patent invention of Mr. Moule is applicable. This comprises a tight receptacle
under the seat, a reservoir for storing dry earth, and an apparatus to measure out the requisite
quantity, and throw it upon the deposit.

The arrangement at the mechanism is shown in Fig. 67. A hopper-shaded reservoir, made of galvanized
iron, is supported by a framework at the back of the seat, which rests on the framework a,
a. Connected with the handle at the right-hand side, there is an iron lever, which operates
a movable box at the bottom of the reservoir, and causes it to discharge its contents directly
under the seat. When the handle is dropped, the box returns to its position, and is immediately
filled preparatory to another use.

The hopper-shaped reservoir is supported by two pivots, and has a slight rocking or vibrating
motion imparted to it by each lifting of the lever. This prevents the earth from becoming clogged,
and insures its regular delivery.

The construction is more clearly shown in Fig. 68.

In this figure, A is the vibrating hopper for holding the earth. Its capacity may be increased
to any desired extent by building above it a straight-sized box of any height. It is not unusual,
in fixed privies, to make this reservoir large enough to hold a supply for several months.
As the earth is dry, there is no occasion for the use of any thing better than common pine
boards in making this addition to the reservoir.

B is one side of the wooden, frame by which the hopper is supported and it may be made of one
inch pine or spruce.

C is a box of lacquered or galvanized iron, without either top or bottom. It moves on two pivots,
one of winch is shown on its exposed side. In its present position, its upper end opens into
the hopper, and its lower end is dosed by the stationary board over which it stands. When the
handle is pulled up, the lever, which is connected with the box, jerks it rapidly up, so that
its back side closes the opening of the reservoir, and its bottom opens to the front. In its
movement it discharges its contents of earth forward under the seat. When the handle is dropped,
the box returns to its natural position, and is charged again.

D is one of the pivots--a corresponding one being on the other side--by which the hopper is
supported, and on which it vibrates.

a, a, a, a, a, a, are the parts of the framework, the dimensions of which in feet and inches
are given.

The only essential part not shown is an earthen-ware pan without a bottom, similar to the pan
of a water-closet, only not so deep and with a larger opening, which is attached to the under
side of the seat, and which in a measure prevents the rising of dust, and conducts the urine
to the point at which the most earth falls. This is the least important part of the invention,
but it has a certain advantage.

The self-acting apparatus is more complicated, and persons wishing it would do best to apply
directly to the Company.

THE ORDINARY PRIVY.

In the circular published by the Earth-Closet Company, the following directions are given:

"An ordinary fixed closet requires the apparatus to be placed at the back of, and in connection
with, the usual seat; the reservoir for containing the earth being placed above it. Under it
there should be a chamber or vault about four feet by three wide, and of any convenient depth,
with a paved or asphalted bottom, and the sides lined with cement. Should there be an existing
cesspool, it may be altered to the above dimensions. Into this the deposit and earth fall,
and may remain there three, six, or twelve months, and continue perfectly inodorous and innoxious,
merely requiring to be occasionally leveled by a rake or hoe. If, however, it should be found
impossible or inconvenient to have a vault underneath, a movable trough, of iron or tarred
wood, on wheels, may be substituted. In this case, it will be advisable to raise the seat somewhat
above the floor, to allow the trough to be of sufficient size.

"By one form of construction, (the 'pull-up,') the pulling up of a handle releases a sufficient
quantity of the dry earth, which is thrown into the pit or vault, covering the deposit and
completely preventing all smell. By another, (the 'self-acting,') the same effect is produced
by the action of the seat. The apparatus may be placed in, and adapted to, almost any existing
closet or privy, and so arranged that the supply and removal of earth may be carried on inside
or outside as desired."

The following is taken from the company's circular:

"In the commode, the apparatus and earth-reservoir are self-contained, and a movable pail takes
the place of the chamber or vault above described. This must be emptied as often as necessary,
and the contents may be applied to the garden or field, or be allowed to accumulate in a heap
under cover until wanted for use. This accumulation is inodorous, and rapidly becomes dry.
The commode can stand in any convenient place in or out of doors. For use in bedrooms, hospital
wards, infirmaries, etc., the commode is invaluable. It is entirely free from those faint,
depressing odors common to portable water-closets and night-stools, and through its admission
one of the greatest miseries of human life, the foul smells of the sick-room, and one of the
most frequent means of communicating infection, may be entirely prevented. It is invariably
found that, if any failure takes place, it arises from the earth not being properly dry. Too
much importance can not be attached to this requirement. The earth-commode will no more act
properly without dry earth, than will a water-closet without water.

"These commodes are made in a variety of patterns, from the cottage commode to the more expensive
ones in mahogany or oak, and vary in price accordingly. They are made to act either by a handle,
as in the ordinary water-closet, or self-acting on rising from the seat. The earth-reservoir
is calculated to hold enough for about twenty-five times; and where earth is scarce, or the
manure required of extraordinary strength, the product may be dried as many as seven times,
and without losing any of its deodorizing properties.

"If care be taken to cast one service of earth into the pail when first placed in the commode,
and to have the commonest regard to cleanliness, not the least offensive smell will be perceptible,
though the receptacle remain unemptied for weeks. Care must also be taken, that no liquid,
but that which they are intended to receive, be thrown into the pails."

The pail used in the commode is made of galvanized iron, and is shaped very much like an ordinary
coal-hod. It has a cover of the same material, and it may be carried from an upper floor with
no more offensiveness than a hodful of common earth.

Fig. 70 represents a cross-section of the commode, and will enable the reader more clearly
to understand the construction and operation of the apparatus.

a is the opening in the seat; b, the "pan;" c, the pail for receiving the deposit; d, the hopper
for containing the earth supply; e, the box by which the earth is measured, and by which it
is thrown into the pail when moved to the position e' by the operation of the "pull-up;" f,
a door by which the pail is shut in; g, the cover of the seat; h, the cover of the hopper;
i a platform which prevents the escape of earth from e.

Under this head, the circular issued by the original London company contains the following:

"The first requirement for the proper working of the earth-closet is earth perfectly dry and
sifted. Earth alone is proved to be the best deodorizer, and far superior to any disinfectants;
but where it is difficult to obtain earth abundantly, sifted ashes, as before stated, may be
mixed with, it in proportion of two of earth to one of ashes.

"As the first requirement is dry earth sifted, and as this is usually thought to be a great
difficulty in the way of the adoption of the dry earth system, the following remarks will at
once remove such an impression.

"The earth-commode and closet, if used by six persons daily, will require, on an average, about
one hundred weight of earth per week. This may be dried for family use in a drawer made to
fit under the kitchen range, and which may be filled with earth one morning and left until
the next. The drawer should reach to within two inches of the bottom bar of the grate. A frame
with a handle, covered with fine wire-netting, forming a kind of shovel, should be placed on
this drawer; the finer ashes will fall through, mixing with the earth, whilst the cinders will
remain on the top, to be, from time to time, thrown on the fire.

"Of course, the most economical method is to provide in the summer-time a winter store of dry
earth, which may be kept in an out-house, shed, or other convenient place, just as we lay in
a winter store of coals.

"THINGS TO BE OBSERVED

 "Let one fall of earth be in the pail before using.
 "The earth must be dry and sifted.
 "Sand must not be used.
 "No 'slops' must be thrown down.
 "The handle must be pulled up with a jerk, and let fall sharply."

REPEATED USE OF EARTH

Concerning the value and use of the product of the earth-closet, the following is copied from
the London company's circular. (It will be noticed that reference is made, to the repeated
use of the same earth. When the ordure is completely dried and decomposed, it has not only
lost its odor, but it has become, like all decomposed organic matter, an excellent disinfectant,
and the fifth or sixth time that the same earth is passed through the closet it is fully as
effective in destroying odors as it was when used for the first time, and of course each use
adds to its value as manure, until it becomes as strong as Peruvian guano, which is now worth
seventy-five dollars per ton. In fact, it may be made so rich that one hundred pounds will
be a good dressing for an acre of land.)

"If the closet is over a water-tight cesspool or pit, it will require emptying at the end of
three or six months. The produce, which will be quite inodorous, should be thrown, together
in a heap, sheltered from wet, and occasionally turned over. At the end of a few weeks, it
will be dry and fit for use.

"If the receptacle be an iron trough or pail, the contents should be thrown together, re-dried,
and used over again, four or five times. In a few weeks they will be dry and fit for use; the
value being increased by repeated action. The condition of the manure should be much the same
as that of guano, and fit for drilling."

The inventor of the earth-closet, Rev. Mr. Moule, says:

"It was to this point (the power of earth or clay to absorb the products of the decomposition
of manure) but particularly to the repeated action, and consequently the repeated use of the
same earth, that I first directed the attention of the public. I then pointed out: First. That
a very small portion of dry and sifted earth (one and a half pints) is sufficient by covering
the deposit, to prevent fermentation, (which so soon sets in whenever water is used,) and the
consequent generation and emission of noxious gases. Second. That if within a few hours, or
even a few days, the mass that would be formed by the repeated layers of deposit, be intimately
mixed by a coarse rake or spade, or by a mixer made for the purpose, then, in five or ten minutes,
neither to the eye or sense of smell is any thing perceptible but so much earth.... When about
three cart-loads of sifted earth had thus been used for my family, (which averaged fifteen
persons,) and left under a shed, I found that the material first employed was sufficiently
dried to be used again. This process of alternate mixing and drying was renewed five times,
the earth still retaining its absorbent powers apparently unimpaired. Of the visitors taken
to the spot, none could guess the nature of the compost, though in some cases the heap which
they visited in the afternoon had been turned over that same morning ...

"It is only in towns, where the delivery, stowage, and removal of earth is attended with cost
and difficulty, that any artificial aid for drying the compost would be desirable. On premises
not cramped for space, the atmosphere, especially with a glass roof to the shed, will act sufficiently
fast.

"You may by means of it (the earth system) have a privy close to the house and a closet up-stairs,
from neither of which shall proceed any offensive smell or any noxious gas. A projection from
the back of the cottage, eight feet long and six feet wide, would be amply sufficient for this
purpose. The nearer three or four feet down-stairs, would be occupied by the privy, in which,
by the seat, would be a receptacle for dry earth. The 'soil' and earth would fall into the
further five or four feet, which would form the covered and closed shed for mixing and drying.
Up-stairs, the arrangement would be much the same, the deposit being made to fall clear of
every wall. Through, this closet the removal of noxious and offensive matters in time of sickness,
and of slop-buckets, would be immediate and easy; and if the shed below be kept well supplied
with earth, all effluvium would be almost immediately checked. As to the trouble which this
will cause, a very little experience will convince the cottager that it is less instead of
greater, than the women generally go through at present, while the value of the manure will
afford an inducement to exertion.

     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .

"The truth is, that the machinery is more simple, much less expensive, and far less liable
to injury than that of the water-closet. The supply of earth to the house is as easy as that
of coals. To the closet it may be supplied more easily than water is supplied by a forcing-pump,
and to the commode it can be conveyed just as coal is carried to the chamber. After use, it
can be removed in either case by the bucket or box placed under the seat, or from the fixed
reservoir, with less offense than that of the ordinary slop-bucket--indeed, (I speak after
four years' experience,) with as little offense as is found in the removal of coal-ashes. So
that, while servants and others will shrink from novelty and at first imagine difficulties,
yet many, to my knowledge, would now vastly prefer the daily removal of the bucket or the soil
to either the daily working of a forcing-pump or to being called upon once a year, or once
in three years, to assist in emptying a vault or cesspool."

To the above complete and convincingly apt arguments and statements of fact, we do not care
to add any thing. All that we desire is to direct public attention to the admirable qualities
of this Earth System, and to suggest that, at least for those living in the country away from
the many conveniences of city life, great water power, and mechanical assistance, the use of
it will conduce largely to the economy of families, the health of neighborhoods, and the increasing
fertility and prosperity of the country round about.

XXXVI.

WARMING AND VENTILATION

There is no department of science, as applied to practical matters, which has so often baffled
experimenters as the healthful mode of warming and ventilating houses. The British nation spent
over a million on the House of Parliament for this end, and failed. Our own government has
spent half a million on the Capitol, with worse failure; and now it is proposed to spend a
million more. The reason is, that the old open fireplace has been supplanted by less expensive
modes of heating, destructive to health; and science has but just begun experiments to secure
a remedy for the evil.

The open fire warms the person, the walls, the floors and the furniture by radiation, and these,
together with the fire, warm the air by convection. For the air resting on the heated surfaces
is warmed by convection, rises and gives place to cooler particles, causing a constant heating
of its particles by movement. Thus in a room with an open fire, the person is warmed in part
by radiation from the fire and the surrounding walls and furniture, and in part by the warm
air surrounding the body.

In regard to the warmth of air, the thermometer is not an exact index of its temperature. For
all bodies are constantly radiating their heat to cooler adjacent surfaces until all come to
the same temperature. This being so, the thermometer is radiating its heat to walls and surrounding
objects, in addition to what is subtracted by the air that surrounds it, and thus the air is
really several degrees warmer than the thermometer indicates. A room at 70 degrees by the thermometer
is usually filled with air five or more degrees warmer than this.

Now, the cold air is denser than warm, and therefore contains more oxygen. Consequently, the
cooler the air inspired, the larger the supply of oxygen and of the vitality and vigor which
it imparts. Thus, the great problem for economy of health is to warm the person as much as
possible by radiated heat, and supply the lungs with cool air. For when we breathe air at from
16 to 20 degrees, we take double the amount of oxygen that we do when we inhale it at 80 to
90 degrees, and consequently can do double the amount of muscle and brain work.

Warming by an open fire is nearest to the natural mode of the Creator, who heats the earth
and its furniture by the great central fire of heaven, and sends cool breezes for our lungs.
But open fires involve great destruction of fuel and expenditure of money, and in consequence
economic methods have been introduced to the great destruction of health and life.

Of these methods, the most popular is that by which radiated heat is banished, and all warmth
is gained by introducing heated air. This is the method employed in our national Capitol, where
both warming and ventilation are attempted by means of fans worked by steam, which force in
the heated air. This is an expensive mode, used only for large establishments, and its entire
failure at our capitol will probably prevent in future any very extensive use of it.

But the most common mode of warming is by heated air introduced from a furnace. The chief objection
to this is the loss of all radiated heat, and the consequent necessity of breathing air which
is debilitating both from its heat and also from being usually deprived of the requisite moisture
provided by the Creator in all out-door air. Another objection is the fact that it is important
to health to preserve an equal circulation of the blood, and the greatest impediment to this
is a mode of heating which keeps the head in warmer air than the feet. This is especially deleterious
in an age and country where active brains are constantly drawing blood from the extremities
to the head. All furnace-heated rooms have coldest air at the feet, and warmest around the
head. It is also rarely the case that furnace-heated houses have proper arrangements for carrying
off the vitiated air.

There are some recent scientific discoveries that relate to impure air which may properly be
introduced here. It is shown by the microscope that fermentation is a process which generates
extremely minute plants, that gradually increase till the whole mass is pervaded by this vegetation.
The microscope also has revealed the fact that, in certain diseases, these microscopic plants
are generated in the blood and other fluids of the body, in a mode similar to the ordinary
process of fermentation.

And, what is very curious, each of these peculiar diseases generates diverse kinds of plants.
Thus in the typhoid fever, the microscope reveals in the fluids of the patient a plant that
resembles in form some kinds of seaweed. In chills and fever, the microscopic plant has another
form, and in small-pox still another. A work has recently been published in Europe, in which
representations of these various microscopic plants generated in the fluids of the diseased
persons are exhibited, enlarged several hundred times by the microscope. All diseases that
exhibit these microscopic plants are classed together, and are called Zymotic, from a Greek
word signifying to ferment.

These zymotic diseases sometimes have a local origin, as in the case of ague caused by miasma
of swamps; and then they are named endemic. In other cases, they are caused by personal contact
with the diseased body or its clothing, as the itch or small-pox; or else by effluvia from
the sick, as in measles. Such are called contagious or infectious. In other cases, diseases
result from some unknown cause in the atmosphere, and affect numbers of people at the same
time, as in influenza or scarlet fever, and these are called epidemics.

It is now regarded as probable that most of these diseases are generated by the microscopic
plants which float in an impure or miasmatic atmosphere, and are taken into the blood by breathing.

Recent scientific investigations in Great Britain and other countries prove that the power
of resisting these diseases depends upon the purity of the air which has been habitually inspired.
The human body gradually accommodates itself to unhealthful circumstances, so that people can
live a long time in bad air. But the "reserve power" of the body, that is, the power of resisting
disease, is under such circumstances gradually destroyed, and then an epidemic easily sweeps
away those thus enfeebled. The plague of London, that destroyed thousands every day, came immediately
after a long period of damp, warm days, when there was no wind to carry off the miasma thus
generated; while the people, by long breathing of bad air, were all prepared, from having sunk
into a low vitality, to fall before the pestilence.

Multitudes of public documents show that the fatality of epidemics is always proportioned to
the degree in which impure air has previously been respired. Sickness and death are therefore
regulated by the degree in which air is kept pure, especially in case of diseases in which
medical treatment is most uncertain, as in cholera and malignant fevers.

Investigations made by governmental authority, and by boards of health in this country and
in Great Britain, prove that zymotic diseases ordinarily result from impure air generated by
vegetable or animal decay, and that in almost all cases they can be prevented by keeping the
air pure. The decayed animal matter sent off from the skin and lungs in a close, unventilated
bedroom is one thing that generates these zymotic diseases. The decay of animal and vegetable
matter in cellars, sinks, drains, and marshy districts is another cause; and the decayed vegetable
matter thrown up by plowing up of decayed vegetable matter in the rich soil in new countries
is another.

In the investigations made in certain parts of Great Britain, it appeared that in districts
where the air is pure the deaths average 11 in 1000 each year; while in localities most exposed
to impure miasma, the mortality was 45 in every thousand. At this rate, thirty-four persons
in every thousand died from poisoned air, who would have preserved health and life by well-ventilated
homes in a pure atmosphere. And, out of all who died, the proportion who owed their deaths
to foul air was more than three fourths. Similar facts have been obtained by boards of health
in our own country.

Mr. Leeds gives statistics showing, that in Philadelphia, by improved modes of ventilation
and other sanitary methods, there was a saving of 3237 lives in two years; and a saving of
three fourths of a million of dollars, which would pay the whole expense of the public schools.
Philadelphia being previously an unusually cleanly and well-ventilated city, what would be
the saving of life, health, and wealth were such a city as New-York perfectly cleansed and
ventilated?

Here it is proper to state again that conflicting opinions are found in many writers on ventilation,
in regard to the position of ventilating registers to carry off vitiated air. Most writers
state that the impure air is heavier, and falls to the bottom of a room. After consulting scientific
men extensively on this point, the writer finds the true result to be as follows: Carbonic
acid is heavier than common air, and, unmixed, falls to the floor. But by the principle of
diffusion of gases, the air thrown from the lungs, though at first it sinks a little, is gradually
diffused, and in a heated room, in the majority of cases, it is found more abundantly at the
top than at the bottom of the room, though in certain circumstances it is more at the bottom.
For this reason, registers to carry off impure air should be placed at both the top and bottom
of a room.

In arranging for pure air in dwellings, it is needful to proportion the air admitted and discharged
to the number of persons. As a guide to this, we have the following calculation: On an average,
every adult vitiates about half a pint of air at each inspiration, and inspires twenty times
a minute. This would amount to one hogshead of air vitiated every hour by every grown person.
To keep the air pure, this amount should enter and be carried out every hour for each person.
If, then, ten persons assemble in a dining-room, ten hogsheads of air should enter and ten
be discharged each hour. By the same rule, a gathering of five hundred persons demands the
entrance and discharge of five hundred hogsheads of air every hour, and a thousand persons
require a thousand hogsheads of air every hour.

In calculating the size of registers and conductors, then, we must have reference to the number
of persons who are to abide in a dwelling; while for rooms or halls intended for large gatherings,
a far greater allowance must be made.

The most successful mode before the public, both for warming and ventilation, is that of Lewis
Leeds, who was employed by government to ventilate the military hospitals and also the treasury
building at Washington. This method has been adopted in various school-houses, and also by
A. T. Stewart in his hotel for women in New-York City. The Leeds plan embraces the mode of
heating both by radiation and convection, very much resembling the open fireplace in operation,
and yet securing great economy. It is modeled strictly after the mode adopted by the Creator
in warming and ventilating the earth, the home of his great earthly family. It aims to have
a passage of pure air through, every room, as the breezes pass over the hills, and to have
a method of warming chiefly by radiation, as the earth is warmed by the sun. In addition to
this, the air is to be provided with moisture, as it is supplied out-doors by exhalations from
the earth, and its trees and plants.

The mode of accomplishing this is by placing coils of steam, or hot water pipes, under windows,
which warm the parlor walls and furniture, partly by radiation, and partly by the air warmed
on the heated surfaces of the coils. At the same time, by regulating registers, or by simply
opening the lower part of the window, the pure air, guarded from immediate entrance into the
room, is admitted directly upon the coils, so that it is partially warmed before it reaches
the person: and thus cold drafts are prevented. Then the vitiated air is drawn off through
registers both at the top and bottom of the room, opening into a heated exhausting flue, through
which the constantly ascending current of warm air carries it off. These heated coils are often
used for warming houses without any arrangement for carrying off the vitiated air, when, of
course, their peculiar usefulness is gone.

The moisture may be supplied by a broad vessel placed on or close to the heated coils, giving
a large surface for evaporation. When rooms are warmed chiefly by radiated heat, the air can
be borne much cooler than in rooms warmed by hot-air furnaces, just as a person in the radiating
sun can bear much cooler air than in the shade. A time will come when walls and floors will
be contrived to radiate heat instead of absorbing it from the occupants of houses, as is generally
the case at the present time, and then all can breathe pure and cool air.

We are now prepared to examine more in detail the modes of warming and ventilation employed
in the dwellings planned for this work.

In doing this, it should be remembered that the aim is not to give plans of houses to suit
the architectural taste or the domestic convenience of persons who intend to keep several servants,
and care little whether they breathe pure or bad air, nor of persons who do not wish to educate
their children to manual industry or to habits of close economy.

On the contrary, the aim is, first, to secure a house in which every room shall be perfectly
ventilated both day and night, and that too without the watchful care and constant attention
and intelligence needful in houses not provided with a proper and successful mode of ventilation.

The next aim is, to arrange the conveniences of domestic labor so as to save time, and also
to render such work less repulsive than it is made by common methods, so that children can
be trained to love house-work. And lastly, economy of expense in house-building is sought.
These things should be borne in mind in examining the plans of this work.

In the Cottage plan, (Chap II. Fig. 1,) the pure air for rooms on the ground floor is to be
introduced by a wooden conductor one foot square, running under the floor from the front door
to the stove-room; with cross branches to the two large rooms. The pure air passes through
this, protected outside by wire netting, and delivered inside through registers in each room,
as indicated in Fig. 1.

In case open Franklin stoves are used in the large rooms, the pure air from the conductor should
enter behind them, and thus be partially warmed. The vitiated air is carried off at the bottom
of the room through the open stoves, and also at the top by a register opening into a conductor
to the exhausting warm-air shaft, which, it will be remembered, is the square chimney, containing
the iron pipe which receives the kitchen stove-pipe. The stove-room receives pure air from
the conductor, and sends off impure air and the smells of cooking by a register opening directly
into the exhausting shaft; while its hot air and smoke, passing through the iron pipe, heat
the air of the shaft, and produce the exhausting current. The construction of the exhausting
or warm-air shaft is described on page 63.

The large chambers on the second floor (Fig. 12) have pure air conducted from the stove-room
through registers that can be closed if the heat or smells of cooking are unpleasant. The air
in the stove-room will always be moist from the water of the stove boiler,

The small chambers have pure air admitted from windows sunk at top half an inch; and the warm,
vitiated air is conducted by a register in the ceiling which opens into a conductor to the
exhausting warm-air shaft at the centre of the house, as shown in Fig. 17.

The basement or cellar is ventilated by an opening into the exhausting air shaft, to remove
impure air, and a small opening over each glazed door to admit pure air. The doors open out
into a "well," or recess, excavated in the earth before the cellar, for the admission of light
and air, neatly bricked up and whitewashed. The doors are to be made entirely of strong, thick
glass sashes, and this will give light enough for laundry work; the tubs and ironing-table
being placed close to the glazed door. The floor must be plastered with water-lime, and the
walls and ceiling be whitewashed, which will add reflected light to the room. There will thus
be no need of other windows, and the house need not be raised above the ground. Several cottages
have been built thus, so that the ground floors and conservatories are nearly on the same level;
and all agree that they are pleasanter than when raised higher.

When a window in any room is sunk at the top, it should have a narrow shelf in front inclined
to the opening, so as to keep out the rain. In small chambers for one person, an inch opening
is sufficient, and in larger rooms for two persons, a two-inch opening is needed. The openings
into the exhausting air flue should vary from eight inches to twelve inches square, or more,
according to the number of persons who are to sleep in the room.

The time when ventilation is most difficult is the medium weather in spring and fall, when
the air, though damp, is similar in temperature outside and in. Then the warm-air flue is indispensable
to proper ventilation. This is especially needed in a room used for school or church purposes.

Every room used for large numbers should have its air regulated not only as to its warmth and
purity, but also as to its supply of moisture; and for this purpose will be found very convenient
the instrument called the Hygrodeik, [Footnote: It is manufactured by N. M. Lowe, Boston, and
sold by him: and J. Queen & Co., Philadelphia.] which shows at once the temperature and the
moisture. A work by Dr. Derby on Anthracite Coal, scientific men say has done much mischief
by an unproved theory that the discomfort of furnace heat is caused by the passage of carbonic
oxide through the iron of the furnace heaters, and not by want of moisture. God made the air
right, and taking out its moisture must be wrong.

The preceding remarks illustrate the advantages of the cottage plan in respect to ventilation.
The economy of the mode of warming next demands attention. In the first place, it should be
noted that the chimney being at the centre of the house, no heat is lost by its radiation through
outside walls into open air, as is the case with all fireplaces and grates that have their
backs and flues joined to an outside wall.

In this plan, all the radiated heat from the stove serves to warm the walls of adjacent rooms
in cold weather; while in the warm season, the non-conducting summer casings of the stove send
all the heat not used in cooking either into the exhausting warm-air shaft or into the central
cast-iron pipe. In addition to this, the sliding doors of the stove-room (which should be only
six feet high, meeting the partition coming from the ceiling) can be opened in cool days, and
then the heat from the stove would temper the rooms each side of the kitchen. In hot weather,
they could be kept closed except when the stove is used, and then opened only for a short time.
The Franklin stoves in the large room would give the radiating warmth and cheerful blaze of
an open fire, while radiating heat also from all their surfaces. In cold weather, the air of
the larger chambers could be tempered by registers admitting warm air from the stove-room,
which would always be sufficiently moistened by evaporation from the stationary boiler. The
conservatories in winter, protected from frost by double sashes, would contribute agreeable
moisture to the larger rooms. In case the size of a family required more rooms, another story
could be ventilated and warmed by the same mode, with little additional expense.

We will next notice the economy of time, labor, and expense secured by this cottage plan. The
laundry work being done in the basement, all the cooking, dish-washing, etc., can be done in
the kitchen and stove-room on the ground floor. But in case a larger kitchen is needed, the
lounges can be put in the front part of the large room, and the movable screen placed so as
to give a work-room adjacent to the kitchen, and the front side of the same be used for the
eating-room. Where the movable screen is used, the floor should be oiled wood. A square piece
of carpet can be put in the centre of the front part of the room, to keep the feet warm when
sitting around the table, and small rugs can be placed before the lounges or other sitting-places,
for the same purpose.

Most cottages are so divided by entries, stairs, closets, etc., that there can be no large
rooms. But in this plan, by the use of the movable screen, two fine large rooms can be secured
whenever the family work is over, while the conveniences for work will very much lessen the
time required.

In certain cases, where the closest economy is needful, two small families can occupy the cottage,
by having a movable screen in both rooms, and using the kitchen in common, or divide it and
have two smaller stoves. Each kitchen will then have a window and as much room as is given
to the kitchen in great steamers that provide for several hundred.

Whoever plans a house with a view to economy must arrange rooms around a central chimney, and
avoid all projecting appendages. Dormer windows are far more expensive than common ones, and
are less pleasant. Every addition projecting from a main building greatly increases expense
of building, and still more of warming and ventilating.

It should be introduced, as one school exercise in every female seminary, to plan houses with
reference to economy of time, labor, and expense, and also with reference to good architectural
taste; and the teacher should be qualified to point out faults and give the instruction needed
to prevent such mistakes in practical life. Every girl should be trained to be "a wise woman"
that "buildeth her house" aright.

There is but one mode of ventilation yet tried, that will, at all seasons of the year and all
hours of the day and night, secure pure air without dangerous draughts, and that is by an exhausting
warm-air flue. This is always secured by an open fireplace, so long as its chimney is kept
warm by any fire. And in many cases, a fireplace with a flue of a certain dimension and height
will secure good ventilation except when the air without and within are at the same temperature.

When no exhausting warm-air flue can be used, the opening of doors and windows is the only
resort. Every sleeping-room without a fireplace that draws smoke well should have a window
raised at the bottom or sunk at the top at least an inch, with an inclined shelf outside or
in, to keep out rain, and then it is properly ventilated. Or a door should be kept opened into
a hall with an open window. Let the bed-clothing be increased, so as to keep warm in bed, and
protect the head also, and then the more air comes into a sleeping-room the better for health.

In reference to the warming of rooms and houses already built, there is no doubt that stoves
are the most economical mode, as they radiate heat and also warm by convection. The grand objection
to their use is the difficulty of securing proper ventilation. If a room is well warmed by
a stove and then a suitable opening made for the entrance of a good supply of out-door air,
and by a mode that will prevent dangerous draughts, all is right as to pure air. But in this
case, the feet are always on cold floors, surrounded by the coldest air, while the head is
in air of much higher temperature.

There is a great difference as to healthfulness and economy in the great variety of stoves
with which the market is filled. The competition in this manufacture is so stringent, and so
many devices are employed by agents, that there is constant and enormous imposition on the
public and an incredible outlay on poor stoves, that soon burn out or break, while they devour
fuel beyond calculation. If some benevolent and scientific organization could be formed that
would, from disinterested motives, afford some reliable guidance to the public, it probably
would save both millions of money and much domestic discomfort.

The stove described in Chapter V. is protected by patents in its chief advantages, but this
has not restrained many of the trade from incorporating some of its leading excellencies and
claiming to have added superior elements. Others will inform any who inquire for it, that it
is out of market, because later stoves have proved superior. Should any who read this work
wish to be sure of securing this stove, and also of gaining minute directions for its use,
they may apply to the writer, Miss C. E. Beecher, 69 West 38th Street, New-York, inclosing
25 cents.

She will then forward the manufacturers' printed descriptive circulars, and her own advice
as to the best selection from the different sizes, and directions for its use, based on her
own personal experience and that of many friends. Should any purchases be made through this
medium, the manufacturers have agreed to pay a certain percentage into the treasury of the
Benevolent Association mentioned at the close of this volume.

There is no more dangerous mode of heating a room than by a gas-stove. There is inevitably
more or less leakage of the gas which it is unhealthful to breathe. And proper ventilation
is scarcely ever secured by those who use such stoves. The same fatal elements of imperfect
ventilation with its attendant horrors of disease, extravagant wastefulness of material, of
fuel, of labor, of time, and of destruction to the apparatus itself, seem concomitants of all
ordinary stoves and cooking arrangements of the present day, unless those who use them are
constant and unremitting in the exercise of intelligent watchfulness, guarding against these
evils. And in view of the almost inevitable stupidity and carelessness of servants, who generally
have charge of such things, and the frequent thoughtlessness even of intelligent women who
manage their own kitchens, the writer believes she is doing a public service by offering her
own experience as a guide to simpler, cheaper, and more wholesome means of living and preparing
the family food.

XXXVII.

CARE OF THE HOMELESS, THE HELPLESS, AND THE VICIOUS.

In considering the duties of the Christian family in regard to the helpless and vicious classes,
some recently developed facts need to be considered. We have stated that the great end for
which, the family was instituted is the training to virtue and happiness of our whole race,
as the children of our Heavenly Father, and this with chief reference to their eternal existence
after death. In the teachings of our Lord we find that it is for sinners--for the lost and
wandering sheep, that he is most tenderly concerned. It is not those who by careful training
and happy temperaments have escaped the dangers of life that God and good angels most anxiously
watch. "For there is more joy in heaven over one sinner that repenteth than over ninety and
nine that went not astray."

The hardest work of all is to restore a guilty, selfish, hardened spirit to honor, truth, and
purity; and this is the divine labor to which the pitying Saviour calls all his true followers;
to lift up the fallen, to sustain the weak, to protect the tempted, to bind up the broken-hearted,
and especially to rescue the sinful. This is the peculiar privilege of woman in the sacred
retreat of a "Christian home." And it is for such self-denying ministries that she is to train
all who are under her care and influence, both by her teaching and by her example.

In connection with these distinctive principles of Christ for which the family state was instituted,
let the following facts be considered. The Massachusetts Board of State Charities, consisting
of some of the most benevolent and intelligent gentlemen of that State, in pursuance of their
official duty visited all the State institutions, and held twenty-five meetings during the
year 1867-8. By these visits and consequent discussions they arrived at certain conclusions,
which may be briefly condensed as follows.

No state or nation excels Massachusetts in a wise and generous care of the helpless, poor,
and vicious. The agents employed for this end are frugal, industrious, intelligent, and benevolent
men and women, with high moral principles. The pauper and criminal classes requiring to be
cared for by Massachusetts are less in proportion to the whole number of inhabitants than in
any other state or nation. Yet, admirable as are these comparative results, there is room for
improvement in a most important particular. The report of the Board urges that the present
mode of collecting special classes in great establishments, though it may be the best in a
choice of evils, is not the best method for the physical, social, and moral improvement of
those classes; as it involves many unfortunate influences (which are stated at large:) and
the report suggests that a better way would be to scatter these unfortunates from temporary
receiving asylums into families of Christian people all over the State.

It is suggested in view of the above, that collecting fallen women into one large community
is not the best way to create a pure moral atmosphere; and that gathering one or two hundred
children in one establishment is not so good for them as to give each child a home in some
loving Christian family. So of the aged and the sick, the blessings of a quiet home, and the
tender, patient nursing of true Christian love, must be sought in a Christian family; not in
a great asylum.

In view of these important facts and suggestions, it may be inquired, if the great end and
aim of the family state is to train the inmates to self-denying love and labor for the weak,
the suffering, and the sinful, how can it be done where there are no young children, no aged
persons, no invalids, and no sinful ones for whom such sacrifices are to be made?

Why are orphan children thrown upon the world, why are the aged held in a useless, suffering
life, except that they may aid in cultivating tender love and labor for the helpless, and reverence
for the hoary head? And yet, how few children are trained thus to regard the orphan, the aged,
the helpless, and the vicious around them!

Great houses are built for these destitute ones, and all the labor and self-denial in taking
care of them is transferred to paid agents, while thousands of families are thus deprived of
all opportunity to cultivate the distinctive virtues of the Christian household.

In this connection, let us look at some facts recently published in the city of New-York.

The writer, Rev. W. O. Van Meter, says in his report:

"The following astounding statistics are carefully selected from the Reports of the Police,
Board of Health, Citizens' Association, and more than twelve years' personal experience."

He then gives the following description of a section of the city only a few rods from the stores
and residences of those who count their wealth by hundreds of thousands and millions, many
of them professing to be followers of Christ:

"First, we see old sheds, stable lofts, dilapidated buildings, too worthless to be repaired,
lofts over warehouses and shops; cellars, too worthless for business purposes, and too unhealthy
for horses or pigs, and therefore occupied by human beings at high rent.--Second, houses erected
for tenant purposes. Take one near our Mission, as a fair specimen of the better class of 'model'
tenant houses. It contains one hundred and twenty-six families--is entered at the sides from
alleys eight feet wide; and by reason of another barrack of equal height, the rooms are so
darkened, that on a cloudy day it is impossible to sew in them without artificial light. It
has not one room that can be thoroughly ventilated.

"The vaults and sewers which are to carry off the filth of one hundred and twenty-six families
have grated openings in the alleys, and doorways in the cellars, through which the deadly miasma
penetrates and poisons the air of the house and courts. The water-closets for the whole vast
establishment are a range of stalls, without doors, and accessible not only from the building,
but even from the street. Comfort here is out of the question; common decency impossible, and
the horrid brutalities of the passenger-ship are day after day repeated, but on a larger scale.

"In similar dwellings are living five hundred and ten thousand persons, (nearly one half of
the inhabitants of the city,) chiefly from the laboring classes, of very moderate means, and
also the uncounted thousands of those who do not know to-day what they shall have to live on
to-morrow. This immense population is found chiefly in an area of less than four square miles.
The vagrant and neglected children among them would form a procession in double file eight
miles long from the Battery to Harlem.

"In the Fourth ward, the tenant-house population is crowded at the rate of two hundred and
ninety thousand inhabitants to the square mile. Such packing was probably never equaled in
any other city. Were the buildings occupied by these miserable creatures removed, and the people
placed by each other, there would be but one and two ninths of a square yard for each, and
this unparalleled packing is increasing. Two hundred and twenty-four families in the ward live
below the sidewalk, many of them below high-water mark. Often in very high tide they are driven
from their cellars or lie in bed until the tide ebbs. Not one half of the houses have any drain
or connection with the sewer. The liquid refuse is emptied on the sidewalk or into the street,
giving forth sickening exhalations, and uniting its fetid streams with others from similar
sources. There are more than four hundred families in this ward whose homes can only be reached
by wading through a disgusting deposit of filthy refuse. 'In one tenant-house one hundred and
forty-six were sick with small-pox, typhus fever, scarlatina, measles, marasmus, phthisis pulmonalis,
dysentery, and chronic diarrhea. In another, containing three hundred and forty-nine persons,
one in nineteen died during the year, and on the day of inspection, which was during the most
healthy season of the year, there were one hundred and fifteen persons sick! In another (in
the Sixth Ward, but near us,) are sixty-five families; seventy-seven persons were sick or diseased
at the time of inspection, and one in four always sick. In fifteen of these families twenty-five
children were living, thirty-seven had died.'

"Here are found the lowest class of sailor boarding-houses, dance- houses, and dens of infamy.
There are less than two dwelling-houses for each rum-hole. Here are the poorest, vilest, most
degraded, and desperate representatives of all nations. In the homes of thousands here, a ray
of sunlight never shines, a flower never blooms, a bird song is never heard, a breath of pure
air never breathed." A procession of vagrant and neglected children that in double file would
reach eight miles, living in such filth, vice, and unhealthful pollution; all of them God's
children, all Christ's younger brethren, to save whom he humbled himself, even to the shameful
death of the cross!

Meantime, the city of New York has millions of wealth placed in the hands of men and women
who profess to be followers of Jesus Christ, and to have consecrated themselves, their time,
and their wealth to his service. And they daily are passing and repassing within a stone's
throw of the streets where all this misery and sin are accumulated!

So in all our large cities and towns all over the land are found similar, if not so extensive,
collections of vice and misery. And even where there are not such extremes of degradation,
there are contrasts of condition that should "give us pause." For example, in the vicinity
of our large towns and cities will be seen spacious mansions inhabited by professed followers
of Jesus Christ, each surrounded by ornamented grounds. Not far from them will be seen small
tenement-houses, abounding with children, each house having about as many square yards of land
as the large houses have square acres. In the small tenements, the boys rise early and go forth
with the father to work from eight to ten hours, with little opportunity for amusement or for
reading or study. In the large houses, the boys sleep till a late breakfast, then lounge about
till school-time, then spend three hours in school, stimulating brain and nerves. Then home
to a hearty dinner, and then again to school.

So with the girls: in the tenement-houses, they, go to kitchens and shops to work most of the
day, with little chance for mental culture or the refinements of taste. In the large mansions,
the daughters sleep late, do little or no labor for the family, and spend their time in school,
or in light reading, ornamental accomplishments, or amusement.

Thus one class are trained to feel that they are a privileged few for whom others are to work,
while they do little or nothing to promote the improvement or enjoyment of their poorer neighbors.

Then, again, labor being confined chiefly to the unrefined and uncultivated, is disgraced and
rendered unattractive to the young. One class is overworked, and the body deteriorates from
excess. The other class overwork the brain and nerves, and the neglected muscles grow thin,
flabby, and weak.

Notice also the style in which they accumulate the elegances of civilization without even an
attempt to elevate their destitute neighbors to such culture and enjoyment. Their expensive
pictures multiply on their frescoed walls, their elegant books increase in their closed bookcases,
their fine pictures and prints remain shut in portfolios, to be only occasionally opened by
a privileged few. Their handsome equipages are for the comfortable and prosperous--not for
the feeble and poor who have none of their own. All their social amusements are exclusive,
and their expensive entertainments are for those only who can return the same to them. Again,
our Lord, after performing the most servile office, taught thus: "If I, your Lord and Master,
have washed your feet, ye ought to wash one another's feet."

In all these large towns and cities are women of wealth and leisure, who profess to be followers
of Jesus Christ. Some of them, having property in their own right, live in large mansions,
with equipage and servants demanding a large outlay. They travel abroad, and gather around
themselves the elegant refinements of foreign lands. They give, perhaps, a tenth of their time
and income (which is far less than was required of the Jews), for benevolent purposes, and
then think and say that they have consecrated themselves and all they have to the service of
Christ.

If there is any thing plainly taught in the New Testament it is, that the followers of Christ
are to be different and distinct from the world around them; "a peculiar people," and subject
to opposition and ill-will for their distinctive peculiarities.

Of these peculiarities demanded, humility and meekness are conspicuous: "Come and learn of
me, for I am meek and lowly, and ye shall find rest." Now, the grand aim of the rich, worldly,
and ambitious is to be at least equal, or else to rise higher than others, in wealth, honor,
and position. This is the great struggle of humanity in all ages, especially in this country,
and among all classes, to rise higher--to be as rich or richer than others--to be as well dressed--to
be more learned, or in more honored positions than others. This was the very thing that made
contention among the apostles, even in the company of their Lord, as they walked and "disputed
who should be the greatest." "And Jesus sat down and called the twelve, and said unto them,
If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last and servant of all;" and "he that is
least among you shall be great."

At another time, the ambitious mother of two disciples came and asked that her sons might have
the highest place in his kingdom, and the other disciples were "moved with indignation." Then
the Lord taught them that the honor and glory of his kingdom was to be exactly the reverse
of this world; and that whoever would be great must be a minister, and who would be chief must
be a servant; even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered to, but to minister.

Again, he rebuked the love of high position and the desire of being counted wise as teachers
of others: "Be not ye called Rabbi, neither be ye called Master; but he that is greatest among
you shall be your servant, and whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased."

Then, as to the strife after wealth, into which all are now rushing so earnestly, the Lord
teaches: "Lay not up for yourselves treasures on earth. Whosoever of you forsaketh not all
that he hath can not be my disciple. To the rich young man, asking how to gain eternal life,
the reply was, "Sell all thou hast, and give to the poor, and come and follow me." When the
poor widow cast in all her living she was approved. When the first Christians were "filled
with the Holy Ghost," they sold all their possessions, to be distributed to those that had
need, and were approved.

And nowhere do we find any direction or approval of laying up money for self or for children.
A man is admonished to provide sustenance and education for his family, but never to lay up
money for them; and the history of the children of the rich is a warning that, even in a temporal
view, the chances are all against the results of such use of property. We are to spend all
to save the world; For this we are to labor and sacrifice ease and wealth, and we are to train
children to the same self-sacrificing labors; All that is spent for earthly pleasure ends here.
Nothing goes into the future world as a good secured but training our own and other immortal
minds. Thus only can we lay up treasures in heaven.

There is a crisis at hand in the history of individuals, of the church, and of our nation,
which must inaugurate a new enterprise to save "the whole world." There must be something coming
in the Christian churches more consistent, more comprehensive, more in keeping with the command
of our ascending Lord--"Go ye (all my followers) into all the world, and preach the gospel
to every creature; he that believeth shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned!"

It is in hope and anticipation of such a "revival" of the true, self-denying spirit of Christ
and of his earnest followers, that plans have been drawn for simple modes of living, in which
both labor and economy may be practiced for benevolent ends, and yet without sacrificing the
refinements of high civilization. One method is exhibited in the first chapters, adapted to
country residence. In what follows will be presented a plan for a city home, having the same aim.

The chief points are to secure economy of labor and time by the selection and close packing
of conveniences, and also economy of health by a proper mode of warming and ventilation. In
this connection will be indicated opportunities and modes that thus may be attained for aiding
to save the vicious, comfort the suffering, and instruct the ignorant. Fig. 71 is the ground
plan, of a city tenement occupying two lots of twenty-two feet front, in which there can be
no side windows; as is the case with most city houses. There are two front and two back-parlors,
each twenty feet square, with a bedroom and kitchen appended to each: making four complete
sets of living-rooms. A central hall runs from basement to roof, and is lighted by skylights.
There is also a ventilating recess running from basement to roof with whitened walls, and windows
opening into it secure both light and air to the bedrooms. On one end of this recess is a trash-flue
closed with a door in the basement, and opening into each story, which must be kept closed
to prevent an upward draught, causing dust and light articles to rise. At the other end is
a dumb-waiter, running from cellar to roof, and opening into the hall of each story. Four chimneys
are constructed near the centre of the house, one for each suite of rooms, to receive a smoke-pipe
of cast-iron or terra cotta, as described previously, with a space around it for warm air;
and this serves as the exhausting-shaft to carry off the vitiated air from parlors, kitchens,
bedrooms, and water-closets. In each kitchen is a stove such as is described in Chapter IV.,
its pipe connecting with the central cast-iron or terra cotta pipe. The stove can be inclosed
by sliding doors shutting off the heat in warm weather. These kitchen stoves, and a large stove
in the basement to warm the central hall, would suffice for all the rooms, except in the coldest
months, when a small terra cotta stove, made for this purpose, or even an ordinary iron stove,
placed by one window in each of the parlors, would give the additional heat needed; while fresh
air could be admitted from the windows behind the stove, and thus be partially warmed.

This exhibits the essential feature and peculiarity of Mr. Leeds's system of ventilation, before
described. Fresh air, admitted at the bottom of a slightly raised window, is to enter below
a window-seat which projects over the stove; the air being thus warmed before entering the
room. The flue of the stove is seen (in the finished corner of Fig. 71, which is a model for
the four other suites of rooms on each floor) running along the wall to the front chimney,
which also receives the corresponding stove-flue from the nearest window in the adjoining parlor:
the same arrangement being repeated at the back of the house. This, the two front and back
chimneys are for the heating and ventilating parlor stoves; the four central chimneys for cooking,
heating, and ventilation.

When possible, in a large building, steam generated in the basement heater will be found better
than the parlor stove. In this case, the room will be heated by the coil of steam-pipe mentioned
before; the slab covering it being the window-seat, or guard, under which the cool fresh air
is conducted to be warmed before passing into the room.

Fig. 72 shows one side of the parlor, giving a series of sliding- doors, behind which are hooks,
shelves, and "shelf-boxes," as described earlier in the book.

The recess occupied by the sofa stands between these two closets. In case the room is used
for sleeping, the double couch on page 30 might be substituted for the sofa, serving as a lounge
by day, and two single beds by night. The curtain hanging above can be so fastened by rings
on a strong semi-circular wire as to be let down while dressing and undressing, as is done
in some of our steamboats. Pockets and hooks on the inside of the curtains may be made very useful.

Fig. 73 represents another side of the same room where are two large windows, each having a
cushioned seat in its recess, (although one may be occupied by a stove, as described above.)
A study-table with drawers or both the front and back sides furnishes large accommodations
for many small articles.

Fig. 74 represents a third side of the same room, with sliding doors glazed from top to bottom
to give light to the bedroom and kitchen.

The fourth side appears on the ground plan (Fig. 71.) The ottomans and a few chairs will complete
the needful furniture.

By means of forms, shelves, and shelf-boxes, the kitchen, could hold all stores and implements
for cooking and setting tables, on the method shown page 34. The eating table is close to the
kitchen and sink, so that few steps are required to bring and remove every article. Thus stove,
sink, cooking materials, the table and its furniture, are all in close proximity, and yet,
when the inmates are seated at table, the sliding-doors will shut out the kitchen, while the
bad air and smells of cooking are earned off by the ventilating exhaust-shaft.

The bedroom has a bath-tub and water-closet. The tub need not be more than four feet long,
and a half-cover raised by a hinge will, when down, hold wash-bowl and pitcher, when the tub
is not in use. Around the bedroom high and wide shelves and shelf-boxes near the ceiling serve
to store large articles; and narrower shelves with pegs under them for clothing, protected
by a curtain, furnish other conveniences for storage. The trash-flue serves to send off rubbish,
with but few steps, and the dumb waiter brings up fuel, stores, etc. Each bedroom must be provided
with a ventilating register at the top, connecting with the warm foul-air flue in the chimney.

For a family of four persons, one parlor, with its kitchen and bedroom, couches and side closets,
would supply all needful accommodations. For a larger family, sliding-doors into the adjacent
parlor, its appended kitchen being arranged for another bedroom, would accommodate a family
of ten persons.

A front and a back entrance may be in the basement, which, can be used for family stores, each
family having one room. A general laundry with drying closets could be provided in the attic,
and lighted from the roof.

Such a building, four stories high, would accommodate sixteen families of four members, or
eight larger families, and provide light, warmth, ventilation, and more comforts and conveniences
than are usually found in most city houses built for only one family. Here young married persons
with frugal and benevolent tastes could commence housekeeping in a style of comfort and good
taste rarely excelled in mansions of the rich. The spaces usually occupied by stairs, entries,
closets, etc., would on this plan be thrown into fine large airy rooms, with every convenience
close at hand.

In one of our large cities is to be found a Christian lady who inherited a handsome establishment
with means to support it in the style common to the rich. In the spirit of Christ she "sold
all that she had, and gave to the poor," by establishing a Home for Incurables, and making
her home with them, giving her time and wealth to promoting their temporal comfort and spiritual
welfare. Was this doing more than her duty--more than the example and teachings of Christ require?

Suppose several ladies of similar views and character in one city, having only moderate wealth,
and leisure, unite to erect such a building as the one described, in a light and healthful
part of the city of New York, and then should take up their residence in it, and from the vast
accumulation of misery and sin at hand on every side, should select the orphans, the aged,
the sick, and the sinful, and spend time and money for their temporal and spiritual elevation;
would they do more than the example and teachings of Christ enjoin? Or would their enjoyment,
even in this life, be diminished by exchanging a routine chiefly of personal gratification
for such self-denying ministries? It was "for the joy that was set before Him" through the
everlasting ages that our Lord "endured the cross," and it is to the same supernal glories
that he invites his followers, and by the same path he trod.

Here it probably will be said that all rich women can not do what is here suggested, owing
to multitudinous claims, or to incapacity of mind or body for carrying out such an attempt.
It will also be said that there are many other ways for practicing self-denial besides selling
our homes and taking a humbler style of living. This is all true. But we are told that there
are "greatest" and "least" in that kingdom of heaven where the chief happiness is in living
to serve others, and not for self. Those who can not change their expensive style of living,
and are obliged to spend most of their thoughts and wealth on self and those who are a part
of self, will be among the least and lowest in happiness and honor, while those who take the
low places on earth to raise others will be the happiest and most honored in the kingdom of heaven.

There are many residences in our large cities where women claiming to be Christ's followers
live in almost solitary grandeur till the warm season, and then shut them up to spend their
time at watering-places or country resorts. The property invested in such city establishments,
and the income required to keep them up, would secure "Christian homes" to many suffering,
neglected, homeless children of Christ, who are living in impure air, with all the debasing
influences found in city tenement-houses. Meantime, the owners of this wealth are suffering
in mind and body for want of some grand and noble object in life. If such could not personally
live in such an establishment as is here described, by self-denying arrangements and combination
with others they could provide and superintend one.

Our minds are created in the image of our Father in heaven, and capable of being made happy,
as his is, by the outpouring of blessings on others. And when we are invited by our divine
Lord to take his yoke and bear his burden, it is for our own highest happiness as well as for
the good of others. And whoever truly obeys finds the yoke easy and the burden light, and that
they bring rest to the soul. But those who shrink from the true good, to live a life of self-indulgent
ease, will surely find that mere earthly enjoyments pall on the taste, that they perish in
the using, that they never satisfy the cravings of a soul created for a higher sphere and nobler
mission.

The Bible represents that there is an emergency-a great conflict in the world unseen-and that
we on earth, who are Christ's people, are to take a part in this conflict and in the "fellowship
of his sufferings," to redeem his children from the slavery of sin and eternal death; and there
is the same call to labor and sacrifice now as there was when he commanded, "Go into all the
world and preach the Gospel to every creature."

But is not the larger part of the church--especially those who have wealth--practically living
on no higher principles than the pious Jews and virtuous heathen? Are they not living just
as if there were no great emergency, no terrible risks and danger to their fellow-men in the
life to, come? Are they not living just as if all men were safe after they leave this world,
and all we need to aim at is to make ourselves and others virtuous and happy in this life,
without disturbing anxiety about the life to come? And is the training of most Christian families
diverse from that of pious Jews, in reference to the dangers of our fellow-men in the future
state, and the consequent duty of labor and sacrifice in order to extend the true religion
all over the earth?

One mode of avoiding self-denial in style of living is by the plea that, if all rich Christiana
gave up the expensive establishments common to this class and adopted such economies as are
here suggested, it would tend to lower civilization and take away support from those living
by the fine arts. But while the world is rushing on to such profuse expenditure, will not all
these elegancies and refinements be abundantly supported, and is there as much danger in this
direction as there is of avoiding the self-denying example of Christ and his early followers?
They gave up all they had, and "were scattered abroad, preaching the word;" and was there any
reason existing then for self-denying labor that does not exist now? There are more idolaters
and more sinful men now, in actual numbers, than there were then; while teaching them the way
of eternal life does not now, as it did then, involve the "loss of all things" and "deaths often."

Moreover, would not the fine arts, in the end, he better supported by imparting culture and
refined tastes to the neglected ones? Teaching industry, thrift, and benevolence is far better
than scattering alms, which often do more harm than good; and would not enabling the masses
to enjoy the fine arts and purchase in a moderate style subserve the interests of civilization
as truly as for the rich to accumulate treasures for themselves in the common exclusive style?

Suppose some Protestant lady of culture and fortune should unite with an associate of congenial
taste and benevolence to erect such a building as here described, and then devote her time
and wealth to the elevation and salvation of the sinful and neglected, would she sacrifice
as much as does a Lady of the Sacred Heart or a Sister of Charity, many of whom have been the
daughters of princes and nobles? They resign to their clergy and superiors not only the control
of their wealth but their time, labor, and conscience. In doing this, the Roman Catholic lady
is honored and admired as a saint, while taught that she is doing more than her duty, and is
thus laying up a store of good works to repay for her own past deficiencies, and also to purchase
grace and pardon for humbler sinners. If this is really believed, how soothing to a wounded
conscience! And what a strong appeal to generous and Christian feeling! And the more terrific
the pictures of purgatory and hell, the stronger the appeal to these humane and benevolent
principles.

But how would it be with the Protestant woman practicing such self-denial? For example, the
lady of wealth and culture, who gave up her property and time to provide a home for incurables--would
her pastor say she was doing more than her duty? and if not, would he preach to other rich
women who, in other ways, could humble themselves to raise up the poor, the ignorant, and the
sinful, that they are doing less than their duty?

Is it not sometimes the case, that both minister and people, by example, at least, seem to
teach that, the more riches increase, the less demand there is for economy, labor, and self-denial
for the benefit of the destitute and the sinful?

Protestants are little aware of the strong attractions which, are drawing pious and benevolent
women toward the Roman Catholic Church, To the poor and neglected: in humble life are offered
a quiet home, with sympathy, and honored work. To the refined and ambitious are offered the
best society and high positions of honor and trust. To the sinful are offered pardon for past
offenses and a fresh supply of "grace" for all acts of penitence or of benevolence. To the
anxiously conscientious, perplexed with contentions as to doctrines and duties, are offered
an infallible pope and clergy to decide what is truth and. duty, and what is the true interpretation
of the Bible, while they are taught that the "faith" which saves the soul is implicit belief
in the teachings of the Roman Catholic Church. All this enables many, even of the intelligent,
to receive the other parts of a system that contradicts both common sense and the Bible.

Meantime, a highly educated priesthood, with no family ties to distract attention, are organizing
and employing devoted, self-denying women, all over the land, to perform the distinctive work
that Protestant women, if wisely trained and organized by their clergy, could carry out in
thousands of scattered Christian homes and villages.

In the Protestant churches, women are educated only to be married; and when not married, there
is no position provided which is deemed as honorable as that of a wife. But in the Roman Catholic
Church, the unmarried woman who devotes herself to works of Christian benevolence is the most
highly honored, and has a place of comfort and respectability provided which is suited to her
education and capacity. Thus come great nunneries, with lady superiors to control conscience
and labor and wealth.

But a time is coming when the family state is to be honored and ennobled by single women, qualified
to sustain it by their own industries; women who will both support and train the children of
their Lord and Master in the true style of Protestant independence, controlled by no superior
but Jesus Christ. And in the Bible they will find the Father of the faithful, to both Jews
and Gentiles, their great exemplar. For nearly one hundred years Abraham had no child of his
own; but his household, whom he trained to the number of three hundred and eighteen, were children
of others. And he was the friend of God, chosen to be father of many nations, because he would
"command his household to do justice and judgment and keep the way of the Lord."

The woman who from true love consents to resign her independence and be supported by another,
while she bears children and trains them for heaven, has a noble mission; but the woman who
earns her own independence that she may train the neglected children of her Lord and Saviour
has a still higher one. And a day is coming when Protestant women will be trained for this
their highest ministry and profession as they never yet have been.

XXXVII.

THE CHRISTIAN NEIGHBORHOOD.

The spirit of Christian missions to heathen lands and the organizations to carry them forward
commenced, in most Protestant lands, within the last century. The writer can remember the time
when an annual collection for domestic missions was all the call for such benefactions in a
wealthy New-England parish; while such small pittances were customary that the sight of a dollar-bill
in the collection, even from the richest men of the church-members, produced a sensation.

In the intervening period since that time, the usual mode of extending the Gospel among the
heathen has been for a few of the most self-sacrificing men and women to give up country and
home and all the comforts and benefits of a Christian community, and then commence the family
state amid such vice and debasement that it was ruinous to children to be trained in its midst.
And so the result has been, in multitudes of cases, that children were born only to be sent
from parents to be trained by strangers, and the true "Christian family" could not be exhibited
in heathen lands. And as a Christian neighborhood, in its strictest sense, consists of a collection
of Christian families, such a community has been impossible in most cases among the heathen.

When our Lord ascended, his last command was "Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel
to every creature." For ages, most Christian people have supposed this command was limited
to the apostles. In the present day, it has been extended to Include a few men and women, who
should practice the chief labor and self-sacrifice, while most of the church lived at ease,
and supposed they were obeying this command, by giving a small portion of their abundance to
support those who performed the chief labor and self-sacrifice.

But a time is coming when Christian churches will under stand this command in a much more comprehensive
sense; and the "Christian family" and "Christian neighborhood" will be the grand ministry of
salvation. In order to assist in making this a practicable anticipation, some additional drawings
are given in this chapter. The aim is to illustrate one mode of commencing a Christian neighborhood
that is so economical and practical that two or three ladies, with very moderate means, could
carry it out.

A small church, a school-house, and a comfortable family dwelling may all be united in one
building, and for a very moderate sum, as will be illustrated by the following example.

At the head of the first chapter is a sketch which represents a perspective view of the kind
of edifice indicated. On the opposite page (Fig. 75) is an enlarged and more exact view of
the front elevation of the same, which is now building in one of the most Southern States,
where tropical plants flourish. The three magnificent trees on the drawing heading the first
chapter are live-oaks adorned with moss, rising over one hundred feet high and being some thirty
or more feet in circumference. Nearly under their shadow is the building to be described.

Fig. 76 is the ground plan, which includes one large room twenty-five feet wide and thirty-five
feet long, having a bow window at one end, and a kitchen at the other end. The bow-window has
folding-doors, closed during the week, and within is the pulpit for Sunday service. The large
room may be divided either by a movable screen or by sliding doors with a large closet on either
side. The doors make a more perfect separation; but the screen affords more room for storing
family conveniences, and also secured more perfect ventilation for the whole large room by
the exhaust-flue.

Thus, through the week, the school can be in one division, and the other still a sizable room,
and the kitchen be used for teaching domestic economy and also for the eating-room. Oil Sunday,
if there is a movable screen, it can be moved back to the fireplace; or otherwise, the sliding--doors
may be opened, giving the whole space to the congregation. The chimney is finished off outside
as a steeple. It incloses a cast-iron or terra cotta pipe, which receives the stove-pipe of
the kitchen and also pipes connecting the two fireplaces with the large pipe, and finds exit
above the slats of the steeple at the projections. Thus the chimney is made an exhaust shaft
for carrying off vitiated air from all the rooms both above and below, which have openings
into it made for the purpose.

Two good-sized chambers are over the large lower story, as shown in Fig. 77. Large closets
are each side of these chambers, where are slatted openings to admit pure air; and under these
openings are registers placed to enable pure air to pass through the floor into the large room
below. Thus a perfect mode of ventilation is secured for a large number.

On Sunday, the folding-doors of the bow-window are to be opened for the pulpit, the sliding-doors
opened, or the screen moved back, and camp-chairs brought from the adjacent closet to seat
a congregation of worshipers.

During the week, the family work is to be done in the kitchen, and the room adjacent be used
for both a school and an eating-room. Here the aim will be, during the week, to collect the
children of the neighborhood, to be taught not only to read, write, and cipher, but to perform
in the best manner all the practical duties of the family state. Two ladies residing in this
building can make an illustration of the highest kind of "Christian family," by adopting two
orphans, keeping in training one or two servants to send out for the benefit of other families,
and also providing for an invalid or aged member of Christ's neglected ones. Here also they
could employ boys and girls in various kinds of floriculture, horticulture, bee-raising, and
other out-door employments, by which an income could be received and young men and women trained
to industry and thrift, so as to earn an independent livelihood.

The above attempt has been made where, in a circuit of fifty miles, with a thriving population,
not a single church is open for Sunday worship, and not a school to be found except what is
provided by faithful Roman Catholic nuns, who, indeed, are found engaged in similar labors
all over our country. The cost of such a building, where lumber is $50 a hundred and labor
$3 a day, would not much exceed $1200.

Such destitute settlements abound all over the West and South, while, along the Pacific coast,
China and Japan are sending their pagan millions to share our favored soil, climate, and government.

Meantime, throughout our older States are multitudes of benevolent, well-educated, Christian
women in unhealthful factories, offices, and shops; and many, also, living in refined leisure,
who yet are pining for an opportunity to aid in carrying the Gospel to the destitute. Nothing
is needed but funds that are in the keeping of thousands of Christ's professed disciples, and
organisations for this end, which are at the command of the Protestant clergy.

Let such a truly "Christian family" be instituted in any destitute settlement, and soon its
gardens and fields would cause "the desert to blossom as the rose," and around would soon gather
a "Christian neighborhood." The school-house would no longer hold the multiplying worshipers.
A central church would soon appear, with its appended accommodations for literary and social
gatherings and its appliances for safe and healthful amusements.

The cheering example would soon spread, and ere long colonies from these prosperous and Christian
communities would go forth to shine as "lights of the world" in all the now darkened nations.
Thus the "Christian family," and "Christian neighborhood" would become the grand ministry,
as they were designed to be, in training our whole race for heaven.

This final chapter should not close without a few encouraging words to those who, in view of
the many difficult duties urged in these pages, sorrowfully review their past mistakes and
deficiencies. None can do this more sincerely than the writer. How many things have been done
unwisely even with good motives! How many have been left undone that the light of present knowledge
would have secured!

In this painful review, the good old Bible comes as the abundant comforter. The Epistle to
the Romans was written especially to meet such regrets and fears. It teaches that all men are
sinners, in many cases from ignorance of what is right, and in many from stress of temptation,
so that neither Greek nor Jew can boast of his own righteousness. For it is not "by works of
righteousness" that we are to be considered and treated as righteous persons, but through a
"faith that works by love;" that faith or belief which is not a mere intellectual conviction,
but a controlling purpose or spiritual principle which habitually controls the feelings and
conduct. And so long as there is this constant aim and purpose to obey Christ in all things,
mistakes in judgment as to what is right and wrong are pitied, "even as a father pitieth his
children," when from ignorance they run into harm. And even the most guilty transgressors are
freely forgiven when truly repentant and faithfully striving to forsake the error of their ways.

Moreover, this tender and pitiful Saviour is the Almighty One who rules both this and the invisible
world, and who "from every evil still educes good." This life is but the infant period of our
race, and much that we call evil, in his wise and powerful ruling may be for the highest good
of all concerned.

The Blessed Word also cheers us with pictures of a dawning day to which we are approaching,
when a voice shall be heard under the whole heavens, saying, "Alleluia"--"the kingdoms of this
world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever."

The author still can hear the echoes of early life, when her father's
voice read to her listening mother in exulting tones the poet's version
of this millennial consummation, which was the inspiring vision of his
long life-labors--a consummation to which all their children were
consecrated, and which some of them may possibly live to behold. Her report has traveled forth
  Into all lands. From every clime they come
  To see thy beauty, and to share thy joy,
  O Zion! an assembly such as earth
  Saw never, such as Heaven stoops down to see!"
  [Footnote: Cowper's Task.]

AN APPEAL TO AMERICAN WOMEN BY THE SENIOR AUTHOR OF THIS VOLUME.

My honored countrywomen:

It is now over forty years that I have been seeking to elevate the character and condition
of our sex, relying, as to earthly aid, chiefly on your counsel and cooperation. I am sorrowful
at results that have followed these and similar efforts, and ask your sympathy and aid.

Let me commence with a brief outline of the past. I commenced as an educator in the city of
Hartford, Ct., when only the primary branches and one or two imperfect accomplishments were
the ordinary school education, and was among the first pioneers in seeking to introduce some
of the higher branches. The staid, conservative citizen's queried of what use to women were
Latin, Geometry, and Algebra, and wondered at a request for six recitation rooms and a study-hall
for a school of nearly a hundred, who had as yet only one room. The appeal was then made to
benevolent, intelligent women, and by their influence all that was sought was liberally bestowed.

But the course of study then attempted was scarcely half of what is now pursued in most of
our colleges for young women, while there has been added a round and extent of accomplishments
then unknown. Yet this moderate amount so stimulated brain and nerves, and so excited competition,
that it became needful to enforce a rule, requiring a daily report, that only two hours a day
had been devoted to study out of school hours. Even this did not avail to save from injured
health both the teacher who projected these improvements and many of her pupils. This example
and that of similar institutions spread all over the nation, with constantly increasing demand
for more studies, and decreasing value and respect for domestic pursuits and duties.

Ten years of such intellectual excitement exhausted the nervous fountain, and my profession
as a school-teacher was ended.

The next attempt was to introduce Domestic Economy as a science to be studied in schools for
girls. For a while it seemed to succeed; but ere long was crowded out by Political Economy
and many other economies, except those most needed to prepare a woman for her difficult and
sacred duties.

In the progress of years, it came to pass that the older States teemed with educated women,
qualified for no other department of woman's profession but that of a schoolteacher, while
the newer States abounded in children without schools.

I again appealed to my countrywomen for help, addressing them through the press and also by
the assistance of a brother (in assemblies in many chief cities) in order to raise funds to
support an agent. The funds were bestowed, and thus the services of Governor Slade were secured,
and, mainly by these agencies, nearly one thousand teachers were provided with schools, chiefly
in the West.

Meantime, the intellectual taxation in both private and public schools, the want of proper
ventilation in both families and schools, the want of domestic exercise which is so valuable
to the feminine constitution, the pernicious modes of dress, and the prevailing neglect of
the laws of health, resulted in the general decay of health among women. At the same time,
the overworking of the brain and nerves, and the "cramming" system of study, resulted in a
deficiency of mental development which is very marked. It is now a subject of general observation
that young women, at this day, are decidedly inferior in mental power to those of an earlier
period, notwithstanding their increased advantages. For the mind, crowded with undigested matter,
is debilitated the same as is the body by over-feeding,

Recent scientific investigations give the philosophy of these results. For example, Professor
Houghton, of Trinity College, Dublin, gives as one item of protracted experiments in animal
chemistry, that two hours of severe study abstracts as much vital strength as is demanded by
a whole day of manual labor. The reports of the Massachusetts Board of Education add other
facts that, in this connection, should be deeply pondered. For example, in one public school
of eighty-five pupils only fifty-four had refreshing sleep; fifty-nine had headaches or constant
weariness, and only fifteen were perfectly well. In this school it was found, and similar facts
are common in all our public and high schools, that, in addition to six school-hours, thirty-one
studied three hours and a half; thirty-five, four hours; and twelve, from four to seven hours.
And yet the most learned medical men maintain that the time devoted to brain labor, daily,
should not exceed six hours for healthy men, and three hours for growing children.

Alarmed at the dangerous tendencies of female education, I made another appeal to my sex, which
resulted in the organization of the American Woman's Education Association, the object being
to establish endowed professional schools, in connection with literary institutions, in which
woman's profession should be honored and taught as are the professions of men, and where woman
should be trained for some self-supporting business. From this effort several institutions
of a high literary character have come into existence at the West, but the organization and
endowment of the professional schools is yet incomplete from many combining impediments, the
chief being a want of appreciation of woman's profession, and of the science and training which
its high and sacred duties require. But the reports of the Association will show that never
before were such superior intellectual advantages secured to a new country by so economical
an outlay.

Let us now look at the dangers which are impending. And first, in regard to the welfare of
the family state, the decay of the female constitution and health has involved such terrific
sufferings, in addition to former cares and pains of maternity, that multitudes of both sexes
so dread the risks of marriage as either to avoid it, or meet them by methods always injurious
and often criminal. Not only so, multitudes of intelligent and conscientious persons, in private
and by the press, unaware of the penalties of violating nature, openly impugn the inspired
declaration, "Children are a heritage of the Lord."

Add to these, other influences that are robbing home of its safe and peaceful enjoyments. Of
such, the condition of domestic service is not the least. We abound in domestic helpers from
foreign shores, but they are to a large extent thriftless, ignorant, and unscrupulous, while
as thriftless and inexperienced housekeepers, from boarding-school life, have no ability to
train or to control. Hence come antagonism and ceaseless "worries" in the parlor, nursery,
and kitchen, while the husband is wearied with endless complaints of breakage, waste of fuel
and food, neglect, dishonesty, and deception, and home is any thing but a harbor of comfort
and peace. Thus come clubs to draw men from comfortless homes, and, next, clubs for the deserted
women.

Meantime, domestic service--disgraced, on one side, by the stigma of our late slavery, and,
on the other, by the influx into our kitchens of the uncleanly and ignorant--is shunned by
the self-respecting and well educated, many of whom prefer either a miserable pittance or the
career of vice to this fancied degradation. Thus comes the overcrowding in all avenues for
woman's work, and the consequent lowering of wages to starvation prices for long protracted toils.

From this come diseases to the operatives, bequeathed often to their offspring. Factory girls
must stand ten hours or more, and consequently in a few years debility and disease ensue, so
that they never can rear healthy children, while the foreigners who supplant them in kitchen
labor are almost the only strong and healthy women to rear large families. The sewing-machine,
hailed as a blessing, has proved a curse to the poor; for it takes away profits from needlewomen,
while employers testify that women who use this machine for steady work, in two years or less
become hopelessly diseased and can rear no children. Thus it is that the controlling political
majority of New-England is passing from the educated to the children of ignorant foreigners.

Add to these disastrous influences, the teachings of "free love;" the baneful influence of
spiritualism, so called; the fascinations of the demi-monde; the poverty of thousands of women
who, but for desperate temptations, would be pure--all these malign influences are sapping
the foundations of the family state. Meantime, many intelligent and benevolent persons imagine
that the grand remedy for the heavy evils that oppress our sex is to introduce woman to political
power and office, to make her a party in primary political meetings, in political caucuses,
and in the scramble and fight for political offices; thus bringing into this dangerous melee
the distinctive tempting power of her sex. Who can look at this new danger without dismay?
But it is neither generous nor wise to join in the calumny and ridicule that are directed toward
philanthropic and conscientious laborers for the good of our sex, because we fear their methods
are not safe. It would be far wiser to show by example a better way.

Let us suppose that our friends have gained the ballot and the powers of office: are there
any real beneficent measures for our sex, which they would enforce by law and penalties, that
fathers, brothers, and husbands would not grant to a united petition of our sex, or even to
a majority of the wise and good? Would these not confer what the wives, mothers, and sisters
deemed best for themselves and the children they are to train, very much sooner than they would
give power and office to our sex to enforce these advantages by law? Would it not be a wiser
thing to ask for what we need, before trying so circuitous and dangerous a method? God has
given to man the physical power, so that all that woman may gain, either by petitions or by
ballot, will be the gift of love or of duty; and the ballot never will be accorded till benevolent
and conscientious men are the majority--a millennial point far beyond our present ken.

The American Woman's Education Association aims at a plan which its members believe, in its
full development, will more effectually remedy the "wrongs of woman" than any other urged on
public notice. Its general aim has been stated; its details will appear at another time and
place. Its managers include ladies of high character and position from six religious denominations,
and also some of the most reliable business men of New York. Any person who is desirous to
aid by contributions to this object can learn more of the details of the plan by addressing
me at No. 69 West Thirty-eighth Street. But it is needful to state that letters from those
who seek aid or employment of any sort can not be answered at present, nor for some months to come.

Every woman who wishes to aid in this effort for the safety and elevation of our sex can do
so by promoting the sale of this work, and its introduction as a text-book into schools. An
edition for the use of schools will be in readiness next fall, which will contain school exercises,
and questions that will promote thought and discussion in classrooms, in reference to various
topics included in the science of Domestic Economy. And it is hoped that a previous large sale
of the present volume will prepare the public mind to favor the introduction of this branch
of study into both public and private schools. Ladies who write for the press, and all those
who have influence with editors, can aid by directing general attention to this effort.

All the profits of the authors derived from the edition of this volume prepared for schools,
will be paid into the Treasury of the A. W.E. Association, and the amount will be stated in
the annual reports.

The complementary volume of this work will follow in a few months, and will consist, to a great
extent, of receipts and directions in all branches of domestic economy, especially in the department
of healthful and economical cooking. The most valuable receipts in my Domestic Receipt Book,
heretofore published by the Harpers, will be retained, and a very large number added of new
ones, which are healthful, economical, and in many cases ornamental. One special aim will be
to point out modes of economizing labor in preparing food.

Many directions will be given that will save from purchasing poisonous milk, meats, beers,
and other medicated drinks. Directions for detecting poisonous ingredients in articles for
preserving the hair, and in cosmetics for the complexion, which now are ruining health, eyesight,
and comfort all over the nation, will also be given.

Particular attention will be given to modes of preparing and preserving clothing, at once economical,
healthful, and in good taste.

A large portion of the book will be devoted to instruction, in the various ways in which women
may earn an independent livelihood, especially in employments that can be pursued in sunlight
and the open air.

Should any who read this work wish for more minute directions in regard to ventilation of a
house already built, or one projected, they can obtain his aid by addressing Lewis Leeds, No.
110 Broadway, New York City. His associate, Mr. Herman Kreitler, who prepared the architectural
plans in this work relating to Mr. Leeds's system, can be addressed at the same place.

CATHARINE E. BEECHER.

NEW YORK, June 1, 1869.

APPENDIX.

Albumen: Nourishing matter stored up between the undeveloped germ and its protecting wrappings
in the seed of many plants.

Archaology: A discourse or treatise on antiquities.

Booking: A kind of thin carpeting or coarse baize.

Calisthenics: From two Greek words--kalos, beauty, and sthenos, strength, being the union of both.

Capillary: A minute, hair-like tube. It has lately been obtained in a solid form.

Carbonic Oxide: A compound, consisting of one part of carbon and one part of oxygen; it is
fatal to animal life. Burns with a pale, blue flame, forming carbonic acid.

Caseine: One of the great forms of blood-making matter; the cheesy or curd-part of milk; found
in both animal and vegetable kingdoms.

Caster: A small vial or vessel for the table, in which to put vinegar, mustard, pepper, etc.
Also, a small wheel on a swivel-joint, on which furniture may be turned in any direction.

Gluten: The glue-like, sticky, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough.

Jams: A side-piece or post.

Kerosene: Refined Petroleum, which see.

Kink: A knotty twist in a thread or rope.

Lambrequin: Originally a kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to a helmet to protect
and adorn it. Hence, a pendent ornamental curtain over a window.

Linnaeus, (Charles:) A native of Sweden, and the most celebrated naturalist of his age. See
Luke 16:11-13; St. Matthew 6:24.

Night-Soil: Human excrement, so-called because usually removed from privies by night.

Oino-mania: A disease of the brain produced by excessive use of alcoholic stimulants; derived
from two Greek words, oinos, wine, and mania, madness. The same disease sometimes arises from
overuse of tobacco and other stimulants of the nerves.

Peristaltic: Contracting in successive circles; worm-like.

Petroleum: Rock oil, an inflammable, bituminous liquid exuding from rocks or from the earth
in the neighborhood of the carboniferous or coal-bearing formation.

Phosphorous: One of the elementary substances.

Reeking: Smoking, emitting vapor. Generally applied to the contents of the abdomen.

