"Oh, I know: the secretary," the young man took him up.  "Nonsense, mother; Janey's grown-up.
They say, don't they," he went on, "that the secretary helped her to get away from her brute
of a husband, who kept her practically a prisoner?  Well, what if he did?  I hope there isn't
a man among us who wouldn't have done the same in such a case."

Mr. Jackson glanced over his shoulder to say to the sad butler: "Perhaps ... that sauce ...
just a little, after all--"; then, having helped himself, he remarked: "I'm told she's looking
for a house.  She means to live here."

"I hear she means to get a divorce," said Janey boldly.

"I hope she will!" Archer exclaimed.

The word had fallen like a bombshell in the pure and tranquil atmosphere of the Archer dining-room.
Mrs. Archer raised her delicate eye-brows in the particular curve that signified:  "The butler--"
and the young man, himself mindful of the bad taste of discussing such intimate matters in
public, hastily branched off into an account of his visit to old Mrs. Mingott.

After dinner, according to immemorial custom, Mrs. Archer and Janey trailed their long silk
draperies up to the drawing-room, where, while the gentlemen smoked below stairs, they sat
beside a Carcel lamp with an engraved globe, facing each other across a rosewood work-table
with a green silk bag under it, and stitched at the two ends of a tapestry band of field-flowers
destined to adorn an "occasional" chair in the drawing-room of young Mrs. Newland Archer.

While this rite was in progress in the drawing-room, Archer settled Mr. Jackson in an armchair
near the fire in the Gothic library and handed him a cigar.  Mr. Jackson sank into the armchair
with satisfaction, lit his cigar with perfect confidence (it was Newland who bought them),
and stretching his thin old ankles to the coals, said:  "You say the secretary merely helped
her to get away, my dear fellow?  Well, he was still helping her a year later, then; for somebody
met 'em living at Lausanne together."

Newland reddened.  "Living together?  Well, why not?  Who had the right to make her life over
if she hadn't?  I'm sick of the hypocrisy that would bury alive a woman of her age if her husband
prefers to live with harlots."

He stopped and turned away angrily to light his cigar.  "Women ought to be free--as free as
we are," he declared, making a discovery of which he was too irritated to measure the terrific
consequences.

Mr. Sillerton Jackson stretched his ankles nearer the coals and emitted a sardonic whistle.

"Well," he said after a pause, "apparently Count Olenski takes your view; for I never heard
of his having lifted a finger to get his wife back."

VI.

That evening, after Mr. Jackson had taken himself away, and the ladies had retired to their
chintz-curtained bedroom, Newland Archer mounted thoughtfully to his own study.  A vigilant
hand had, as usual, kept the fire alive and the lamp trimmed; and the room, with its rows and
rows of books, its bronze and steel statuettes of "The Fencers" on the mantelpiece and its
many photographs of famous pictures, looked singularly home-like and welcoming.

As he dropped into his armchair near the fire his eyes rested on a large photograph of May
Welland, which the young girl had given him in the first days of their romance, and which had
now displaced all the other portraits on the table.  With a new sense of awe he looked at the
frank forehead, serious eyes and gay innocent mouth of the young creature whose soul's custodian
he was to be.  That terrifying product of the social system he belonged to and believed in,
the young girl who knew nothing and expected everything, looked back at him like a stranger
through May Welland's familiar features; and once more it was borne in on him that marriage
was not the safe anchorage he had been taught to think, but a voyage on uncharted seas.

The case of the Countess Olenska had stirred up old settled convictions and set them drifting
dangerously through his mind.  His own exclamation:  "Women should be free--as free as we are,"
struck to the root of a problem that it was agreed in his world to regard as non-existent.
"Nice" women, however wronged, would never claim the kind of freedom he meant, and generous-minded
men like himself were therefore--in the heat of argument--the more chivalrously ready to concede
it to them.  Such verbal generosities were in fact only a humbugging disguise of the inexorable
conventions that tied things together and bound people down to the old pattern.  But here he
was pledged to defend, on the part of his betrothed's cousin, conduct that, on his own wife's
part, would justify him in calling down on her all the thunders of Church and State.  Of course
the dilemma was purely hypothetical; since he wasn't a blackguard Polish nobleman, it was absurd
to speculate what his wife's rights would be if he WERE.  But Newland Archer was too imaginative
not to feel that, in his case and May's, the tie might gall for reasons far less gross and
palpable. What could he and she really know of each other, since it was his duty, as a "decent"
fellow, to conceal his past from her, and hers, as a marriageable girl, to have no past to
conceal?  What if, for some one of the subtler reasons that would tell with both of them, they
should tire of each other, misunderstand or irritate each other?  He reviewed his friends'
marriages--the supposedly happy ones--and saw none that answered, even remotely, to the passionate
and tender comradeship which he pictured as his permanent relation with May Welland.  He perceived
that such a picture presupposed, on her part, the experience, the versatility, the freedom
of judgment, which she had been carefully trained not to possess; and with a shiver of foreboding
he saw his marriage becoming what most of the other marriages about him were: a dull association
of material and social interests held together by ignorance on the one side and hypocrisy on
the other.  Lawrence Lefferts occurred to him as the husband who had most completely realised
this enviable ideal.  As became the high-priest of form, he had formed a wife so completely
to his own convenience that, in the most conspicuous moments of his frequent love-affairs with
other men's wives, she went about in smiling unconsciousness, saying that "Lawrence was so
frightfully strict"; and had been known to blush indignantly, and avert her gaze, when some
one alluded in her presence to the fact that Julius Beaufort (as became a "foreigner" of doubtful
origin) had what was known in New York as "another establishment."

Archer tried to console himself with the thought that he was not quite such an ass as Larry
Lefferts, nor May such a simpleton as poor Gertrude; but the difference was after all one of
intelligence and not of standards.  In reality they all lived in a kind of hieroglyphic world,
where the real thing was never said or done or even thought, but only represented by a set
of arbitrary signs; as when Mrs. Welland, who knew exactly why Archer had pressed her to announce
her daughter's engagement at the Beaufort ball (and had indeed expected him to do no less),
yet felt obliged to simulate reluctance, and the air of having had her hand forced, quite as,
in the books on Primitive Man that people of advanced culture were beginning to read, the savage
bride is dragged with shrieks from her parents' tent.

The result, of course, was that the young girl who was the centre of this elaborate system
of mystification remained the more inscrutable for her very frankness and assurance.  She was
frank, poor darling, because she had nothing to conceal, assured because she knew of nothing
to be on her guard against; and with no better preparation than this, she was to be plunged
overnight into what people evasively called "the facts of life."

The young man was sincerely but placidly in love.  He delighted in the radiant good looks of
his betrothed, in her health, her horsemanship, her grace and quickness at games, and the shy
interest in books and ideas that she was beginning to develop under his guidance.  (She had
advanced far enough to join him in ridiculing the Idyls of the King, but not to feel the beauty
of Ulysses and the Lotus Eaters.) She was straightforward, loyal and brave; she had a sense
of humour (chiefly proved by her laughing at HIS jokes); and he suspected, in the depths of
her innocently-gazing soul, a glow of feeling that it would be a joy to waken.  But when he
had gone the brief round of her he returned discouraged by the thought that all this frankness
and innocence were only an artificial product.  Untrained human nature was not frank and innocent;
it was full of the twists and defences of an instinctive guile.  And he felt himself oppressed
by this creation of factitious purity, so cunningly manufactured by a conspiracy of mothers
and aunts and grandmothers and long-dead ancestresses, because it was supposed to be what he
wanted, what he had a right to, in order that he might exercise his lordly pleasure in smashing
it like an image made of snow.

There was a certain triteness in these reflections: they were those habitual to young men on
the approach of their wedding day.  But they were generally accompanied by a sense of compunction
and self-abasement of which Newland Archer felt no trace.  He could not deplore (as Thackeray's
heroes so often exasperated him by doing) that he had not a blank page to offer his bride in
exchange for the unblemished one she was to give to him.  He could not get away from the fact
that if he had been brought up as she had they would have been no more fit to find their way
about than the Babes in the Wood; nor could he, for all his anxious cogitations, see any honest
reason (any, that is, unconnected with his own momentary pleasure, and the passion of masculine
vanity) why his bride should not have been allowed the same freedom of experience as himself.

Such questions, at such an hour, were bound to drift through his mind; but he was conscious
that their uncomfortable persistence and precision were due to the inopportune arrival of the
Countess Olenska.  Here he was, at the very moment of his betrothal--a moment for pure thoughts
and cloudless hopes--pitchforked into a coil of scandal which raised all the special problems
he would have preferred to let lie.  "Hang Ellen Olenska!" he grumbled, as he covered his fire
and began to undress.  He could not really see why her fate should have the least bearing on
his; yet he dimly felt that he had only just begun to measure the risks of the championship
which his engagement had forced upon him.

A few days later the bolt fell.

The Lovell Mingotts had sent out cards for what was known as "a formal dinner" (that is, three
extra footmen, two dishes for each course, and a Roman punch in the middle), and had headed
their invitations with the words "To meet the Countess Olenska," in accordance with the hospitable
American fashion, which treats strangers as if they were royalties, or at least as their ambassadors.

The guests had been selected with a boldness and discrimination in which the initiated recognised
the firm hand of Catherine the Great. Associated with such immemorial standbys as the Selfridge
Merrys, who were asked everywhere because they always had been, the Beauforts, on whom there
was a claim of relationship, and Mr. Sillerton Jackson and his sister Sophy (who went wherever
her brother told her to), were some of the most fashionable and yet most irreproachable of
the dominant "young married" set; the Lawrence Leffertses, Mrs. Lefferts Rushworth (the lovely
widow), the Harry Thorleys, the Reggie Chiverses and young Morris Dagonet and his wife (who
was a van der Luyden).  The company indeed was perfectly assorted, since all the members belonged
to the little inner group of people who, during the long New York season, disported themselves
together daily and nightly with apparently undiminished zest.

Forty-eight hours later the unbelievable had happened; every one had refused the Mingotts'
invitation except the Beauforts and old Mr. Jackson and his sister.  The intended slight was
emphasised by the fact that even the Reggie Chiverses, who were of the Mingott clan, were among
those inflicting it; and by the uniform wording of the notes, in all of which the writers "regretted
that they were unable to accept," without the mitigating plea of a "previous engagement" that
ordinary courtesy prescribed.

New York society was, in those days, far too small, and too scant in its resources, for every
one in it (including livery-stable-keepers, butlers and cooks) not to know exactly on which
evenings people were free; and it was thus possible for the recipients of Mrs. Lovell Mingott's
invitations to make cruelly clear their determination not to meet the Countess Olenska.

The blow was unexpected; but the Mingotts, as their way was, met it gallantly.  Mrs. Lovell
Mingott confided the case to Mrs. Welland, who confided it to Newland Archer; who, aflame at
the outrage, appealed passionately and authoritatively to his mother; who, after a painful
period of inward resistance and outward temporising, succumbed to his instances (as she always
did), and immediately embracing his cause with an energy redoubled by her previous hesitations,
put on her grey velvet bonnet and said:  "I'll go and see Louisa van der Luyden."

The New York of Newland Archer's day was a small and slippery pyramid, in which, as yet, hardly
a fissure had been made or a foothold gained. At its base was a firm foundation of what Mrs.
Archer called "plain people"; an honourable but obscure majority of respectable families who
(as in the case of the Spicers or the Leffertses or the Jacksons) had been raised above their
level by marriage with one of the ruling clans. People, Mrs. Archer always said, were not as
particular as they used to be; and with old Catherine Spicer ruling one end of Fifth Avenue,
and Julius Beaufort the other, you couldn't expect the old traditions to last much longer.

Firmly narrowing upward from this wealthy but inconspicuous substratum was the compact and
dominant group which the Mingotts, Newlands, Chiverses and Mansons so actively represented.
Most people imagined them to be the very apex of the pyramid; but they themselves (at least
those of Mrs. Archer's generation) were aware that, in the eyes of the professional genealogist,
only a still smaller number of families could lay claim to that eminence.

"Don't tell me," Mrs. Archer would say to her children, "all this modern newspaper rubbish
about a New York aristocracy.  If there is one, neither the Mingotts nor the Mansons belong
to it; no, nor the Newlands or the Chiverses either.  Our grandfathers and great-grandfathers
were just respectable English or Dutch merchants, who came to the colonies to make their fortune,
and stayed here because they did so well.  One of your great-grandfathers signed the Declaration,
and another was a general on Washington's staff, and received General Burgoyne's sword after
the battle of Saratoga.  These are things to be proud of, but they have nothing to do with
rank or class.  New York has always been a commercial community, and there are not more than
three families in it who can claim an aristocratic origin in the real sense of the word."

Mrs. Archer and her son and daughter, like every one else in New York, knew who these privileged
beings were: the Dagonets of Washington Square, who came of an old English county family allied
with the Pitts and Foxes; the Lannings, who had intermarried with the descendants of Count
de Grasse, and the van der Luydens, direct descendants of the first Dutch governor of Manhattan,
and related by pre-revolutionary marriages to several members of the French and British aristocracy.

The Lannings survived only in the person of two very old but lively Miss Lannings, who lived
cheerfully and reminiscently among family portraits and Chippendale; the Dagonets were a considerable
clan, allied to the best names in Baltimore and Philadelphia; but the van der Luydens, who
stood above all of them, had faded into a kind of super-terrestrial twilight, from which only
two figures impressively emerged; those of Mr. and Mrs. Henry van der Luyden.

Mrs. Henry van der Luyden had been Louisa Dagonet, and her mother had been the granddaughter
of Colonel du Lac, of an old Channel Island family, who had fought under Cornwallis and had
settled in Maryland, after the war, with his bride, Lady Angelica Trevenna, fifth daughter
of the Earl of St. Austrey.  The tie between the Dagonets, the du Lacs of Maryland, and their
aristocratic Cornish kinsfolk, the Trevennas, had always remained close and cordial.  Mr. and
Mrs. van der Luyden had more than once paid long visits to the present head of the house of
Trevenna, the Duke of St.  Austrey, at his country-seat in Cornwall and at St.  Austrey in
Gloucestershire; and his Grace had frequently announced his intention of some day returning
their visit (without the Duchess, who feared the Atlantic).

Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden divided their time between Trevenna, their place in Maryland, and
Skuytercliff, the great estate on the Hudson which had been one of the colonial grants of the
Dutch government to the famous first Governor, and of which Mr. van der Luyden was still "Patroon."
Their large solemn house in Madison Avenue was seldom opened, and when they came to town they
received in it only their most intimate friends.

"I wish you would go with me, Newland," his mother said, suddenly pausing at the door of the
Brown coupe.  "Louisa is fond of you; and of course it's on account of dear May that I'm taking
this step--and also because, if we don't all stand together, there'll be no such thing as Society
left."

VII.

Mrs. Henry van der Luyden listened in silence to her cousin Mrs. Archer's narrative.

It was all very well to tell yourself in advance that Mrs. van der Luyden was always silent,
and that, though non-committal by nature and training, she was very kind to the people she
really liked.  Even personal experience of these facts was not always a protection from the
chill that descended on one in the high-ceilinged white-walled Madison Avenue drawing-room,
with the pale brocaded armchairs so obviously uncovered for the occasion, and the gauze still
veiling the ormolu mantel ornaments and the beautiful old carved frame of Gainsborough's "Lady
Angelica du Lac."

Mrs. van der Luyden's portrait by Huntington (in black velvet and Venetian point) faced that
of her lovely ancestress.  It was generally considered "as fine as a Cabanel," and, though
twenty years had elapsed since its execution, was still "a perfect likeness." Indeed the Mrs.
van der Luyden who sat beneath it listening to Mrs. Archer might have been the twin-sister
of the fair and still youngish woman drooping against a gilt armchair before a green rep curtain.
Mrs. van der Luyden still wore black velvet and Venetian point when she went into society--or
rather (since she never dined out) when she threw open her own doors to receive it.  Her fair
hair, which had faded without turning grey, was still parted in flat overlapping points on
her forehead, and the straight nose that divided her pale blue eyes was only a little more
pinched about the nostrils than when the portrait had been painted.  She always, indeed, struck
Newland Archer as having been rather gruesomely preserved in the airless atmosphere of a perfectly
irreproachable existence, as bodies caught in glaciers keep for years a rosy life-in-death.

Like all his family, he esteemed and admired Mrs. van der Luyden; but he found her gentle bending
sweetness less approachable than the grimness of some of his mother's old aunts, fierce spinsters
who said "No" on principle before they knew what they were going to be asked.

Mrs. van der Luyden's attitude said neither yes nor no, but always appeared to incline to clemency
till her thin lips, wavering into the shadow of a smile, made the almost invariable reply:
"I shall first have to talk this over with my husband."

She and Mr. van der Luyden were so exactly alike that Archer often wondered how, after forty
years of the closest conjugality, two such merged identities ever separated themselves enough
for anything as controversial as a talking-over.  But as neither had ever reached a decision
without prefacing it by this mysterious conclave, Mrs. Archer and her son, having set forth
their case, waited resignedly for the familiar phrase.

Mrs. van der Luyden, however, who had seldom surprised any one, now surprised them by reaching
her long hand toward the bell-rope.

"I think," she said, "I should like Henry to hear what you have told me."

A footman appeared, to whom she gravely added: "If Mr. van der Luyden has finished reading
the newspaper, please ask him to be kind enough to come."

She said "reading the newspaper" in the tone in which a Minister's wife might have said:  "Presiding
at a Cabinet meeting"--not from any arrogance of mind, but because the habit of a life-time,
and the attitude of her friends and relations, had led her to consider Mr. van der Luyden's
least gesture as having an almost sacerdotal importance.

Her promptness of action showed that she considered the case as pressing as Mrs. Archer; but,
lest she should be thought to have committed herself in advance, she added, with the sweetest
look: "Henry always enjoys seeing you, dear Adeline; and he will wish to congratulate Newland."

The double doors had solemnly reopened and between them appeared Mr. Henry van der Luyden,
tall, spare and frock-coated, with faded fair hair, a straight nose like his wife's and the
same look of frozen gentleness in eyes that were merely pale grey instead of pale blue.

Mr. van der Luyden greeted Mrs. Archer with cousinly affability, proffered to Newland low-voiced
congratulations couched in the same language as his wife's, and seated himself in one of the
brocade armchairs with the simplicity of a reigning sovereign.

"I had just finished reading the Times," he said, laying his long finger-tips together.  "In
town my mornings are so much occupied that I find it more convenient to read the newspapers
after luncheon."

"Ah, there's a great deal to be said for that plan--indeed I think my uncle Egmont used to
say he found it less agitating not to read the morning papers till after dinner," said Mrs.
Archer responsively.

"Yes: my good father abhorred hurry.  But now we live in a constant rush," said Mr. van der
Luyden in measured tones, looking with pleasant deliberation about the large shrouded room
which to Archer was so complete an image of its owners.

"But I hope you HAD finished your reading, Henry?" his wife interposed.

"Quite--quite," he reassured her.

"Then I should like Adeline to tell you--"

"Oh, it's really Newland's story," said his mother smiling; and proceeded to rehearse once
more the monstrous tale of the affront inflicted on Mrs. Lovell Mingott.

"Of course," she ended, "Augusta Welland and Mary Mingott both felt that, especially in view
of Newland's engagement, you and Henry OUGHT TO KNOW."

"Ah--" said Mr. van der Luyden, drawing a deep breath.

There was a silence during which the tick of the monumental ormolu clock on the white marble
mantelpiece grew as loud as the boom of a minute-gun.  Archer contemplated with awe the two
slender faded figures, seated side by side in a kind of viceregal rigidity, mouthpieces of
some remote ancestral authority which fate compelled them to wield, when they would so much
rather have lived in simplicity and seclusion, digging invisible weeds out of the perfect lawns
of Skuytercliff, and playing Patience together in the evenings.

Mr. van der Luyden was the first to speak.

"You really think this is due to some--some intentional interference of Lawrence Lefferts's?"
he enquired, turning to Archer.

"I'm certain of it, sir.  Larry has been going it rather harder than usual lately--if cousin
Louisa won't mind my mentioning it--having rather a stiff affair with the postmaster's wife
in their village, or some one of that sort; and whenever poor Gertrude Lefferts begins to suspect
anything, and he's afraid of trouble, he gets up a fuss of this kind, to show how awfully moral
he is, and talks at the top of his voice about the impertinence of inviting his wife to meet
people he doesn't wish her to know.  He's simply using Madame Olenska as a lightning-rod; I've
seen him try the same thing often before."

"The LEFFERTSES!--" said Mrs. van der Luyden.

"The LEFFERTSES!--" echoed Mrs. Archer.  "What would uncle Egmont have said of Lawrence Lefferts's
pronouncing on anybody's social position? It shows what Society has come to."

"We'll hope it has not quite come to that," said Mr. van der Luyden firmly.

"Ah, if only you and Louisa went out more!" sighed Mrs. Archer.

But instantly she became aware of her mistake.  The van der Luydens were morbidly sensitive
to any criticism of their secluded existence. They were the arbiters of fashion, the Court
of last Appeal, and they knew it, and bowed to their fate.  But being shy and retiring persons,
with no natural inclination for their part, they lived as much as possible in the sylvan solitude
of Skuytercliff, and when they came to town, declined all invitations on the plea of Mrs. van
der Luyden's health.

Newland Archer came to his mother's rescue.  "Everybody in New York knows what you and cousin
Louisa represent.  That's why Mrs. Mingott felt she ought not to allow this slight on Countess
Olenska to pass without consulting you."

Mrs. van der Luyden glanced at her husband, who glanced back at her.

"It is the principle that I dislike," said Mr. van der Luyden.  "As long as a member of a well-known
family is backed up by that family it should be considered--final."

"It seems so to me," said his wife, as if she were producing a new thought.

"I had no idea," Mr. van der Luyden continued, "that things had come to such a pass."  He paused,
and looked at his wife again.  "It occurs to me, my dear, that the Countess Olenska is already
a sort of relation--through Medora Manson's first husband.  At any rate, she will be when Newland
marries."  He turned toward the young man.  "Have you read this morning's Times, Newland?"

"Why, yes, sir," said Archer, who usually tossed off half a dozen papers with his morning coffee.

Husband and wife looked at each other again.  Their pale eyes clung together in prolonged and
serious consultation; then a faint smile fluttered over Mrs. van der Luyden's face.  She had
evidently guessed and approved.

Mr. van der Luyden turned to Mrs. Archer.  "If Louisa's health allowed her to dine out--I wish
you would say to Mrs. Lovell Mingott--she and I would have been happy to--er--fill the places
of the Lawrence Leffertses at her dinner."  He paused to let the irony of this sink in. "As
you know, this is impossible."  Mrs. Archer sounded a sympathetic assent.  "But Newland tells
me he has read this morning's Times; therefore he has probably seen that Louisa's relative,
the Duke of St. Austrey, arrives next week on the Russia.  He is coming to enter his new sloop,
the Guinevere, in next summer's International Cup Race; and also to have a little canvasback
shooting at Trevenna."  Mr. van der Luyden paused again, and continued with increasing benevolence:
"Before taking him down to Maryland we are inviting a few friends to meet him here--only a
little dinner--with a reception afterward.  I am sure Louisa will be as glad as I am if Countess
Olenska will let us include her among our guests."  He got up, bent his long body with a stiff
friendliness toward his cousin, and added:  "I think I have Louisa's authority for saying that
she will herself leave the invitation to dine when she drives out presently: with our cards--of
course with our cards."

Mrs. Archer, who knew this to be a hint that the seventeen-hand chestnuts which were never
kept waiting were at the door, rose with a hurried murmur of thanks.  Mrs. van der Luyden beamed
on her with the smile of Esther interceding with Ahasuerus; but her husband raised a protesting
hand.

"There is nothing to thank me for, dear Adeline; nothing whatever. This kind of thing must
not happen in New York; it shall not, as long as I can help it," he pronounced with sovereign
gentleness as he steered his cousins to the door.

Two hours later, every one knew that the great C-spring barouche in which Mrs. van der Luyden
took the air at all seasons had been seen at old Mrs. Mingott's door, where a large square
envelope was handed in; and that evening at the Opera Mr. Sillerton Jackson was able to state
that the envelope contained a card inviting the Countess Olenska to the dinner which the van
der Luydens were giving the following week for their cousin, the Duke of St. Austrey.

Some of the younger men in the club box exchanged a smile at this announcement, and glanced
sideways at Lawrence Lefferts, who sat carelessly in the front of the box, pulling his long
fair moustache, and who remarked with authority, as the soprano paused:  "No one but Patti
ought to attempt the Sonnambula."

VIII.

It was generally agreed in New York that the Countess Olenska had "lost her looks."

She had appeared there first, in Newland Archer's boyhood, as a brilliantly pretty little girl
of nine or ten, of whom people said that she "ought to be painted." Her parents had been continental
wanderers, and after a roaming babyhood she had lost them both, and been taken in charge by
her aunt, Medora Manson, also a wanderer, who was herself returning to New York to "settle down."

Poor Medora, repeatedly widowed, was always coming home to settle down (each time in a less
expensive house), and bringing with her a new husband or an adopted child; but after a few
months she invariably parted from her husband or quarrelled with her ward, and, having got
rid of her house at a loss, set out again on her wanderings.  As her mother had been a Rushworth,
and her last unhappy marriage had linked her to one of the crazy Chiverses, New York looked
indulgently on her eccentricities; but when she returned with her little orphaned niece, whose
parents had been popular in spite of their regrettable taste for travel, people thought it
a pity that the pretty child should be in such hands.

Every one was disposed to be kind to little Ellen Mingott, though her dusky red cheeks and
tight curls gave her an air of gaiety that seemed unsuitable in a child who should still have
been in black for her parents.  It was one of the misguided Medora's many peculiarities to
flout the unalterable rules that regulated American mourning, and when she stepped from the
steamer her family were scandalised to see that the crape veil she wore for her own brother
was seven inches shorter than those of her sisters-in-law, while little Ellen was in crimson
merino and amber beads, like a gipsy foundling.

