Illustrated with Photographs

WASHINGTON 1941

VOLUME IV

GEORGIA NARRATIVES

PART 1

Prepared by the Federal Writers' Project of the Works Progress Administration for the State
of Georgia

INFORMANTS

Adams, Rachel
Allen, Uncle Wash [TR: originally listed as Rev. W.B. (Uncle Wash)]
Allen, Rev. W.B. [TR: different informant]
Atkinson, Jack
Austin, Hannah
Avery, Celestia [TR: also appended is interview with Emmaline Heard
  that is repeated in Part 2 of the Georgia Narratives]
Baker, Georgia
Battle, Alice
Battle, Jasper
Binns, Arrie
Bland, Henry
Body, Rias
Bolton, James
Bostwick, Alec
Boudry, Nancy
Bradley, Alice, and Colquitt, Kizzie [TR: interviews filed together
  though not connected]
Briscoe, Della
Brooks, George
Brown, Easter
Brown, Julia (Aunt Sally)
Bunch, Julia
Butler, Marshal
Byrd, Sarah

Calloway, Mariah Castle, Susan Claibourn, Ellen Clay, Berry Cody, Pierce Cofer, Willis Colbert,
Mary Cole, John Cole, Julia Colquitt, Martha

Davis, Minnie Davis, Mose Derricotte, Ike Dillard, Benny

Eason, George Elder, Callie Everette, Martha

Favor, Lewis [TR: also referred to as Favors] Ferguson, Mary Fryer, Carrie Nancy Furr, Anderson

ILLUSTRATIONS

Marshal Butler [TR: not listed in original index] John Cole

[TR: The interview headers presented here contain all information included in the original,
but may have been rearranged for readability. Also, some ages and addresses have been drawn
from blocks of information on subsequent interview pages. Names in brackets were drawn from
text of interviews.]

[TR: Some interviews were date-stamped; these dates have been added to interview headers in
brackets. Where part of date could not be determined -- has been substituted. Stalks of corn
at the rear of the dwelling reach almost to the roof ridge and a portion of the front yard
is enclosed for a chicken yard. Stepping gingerly around the amazing number of nondescript
articles scattered about the small veranda, the visitor rapped several times on the front door,
but received no response. A neighbor said the old woman might be found at her son's store,
but she was finally located at the home of a daughter.

Rachel came to the front door with a sandwich of hoecake and cheese in one hand and a glass
of water in the other. "Dis here's Rachel Adams," she declared. "Have a seat on de porch."
Rachel is tall, thin, very black, and wears glasses. Her faded pink outing wrapper was partly
covered by an apron made of a heavy meal sack. Tennis shoes, worn without hose, and a man's
black hat completed her outfit.

Rachel began her story by saying: "Miss, dats been sich a long time back dat I has most forgot
how things went. Anyhow I was borned in Putman County 'bout two miles from Eatonton, Georgia.
My Ma and Pa was 'Melia and Iaaac Little and, far as I knows, dey was borned and bred in dat
same county. Pa, he was sold away from Ma when I was still a baby. Ma's job was to weave all
de cloth for de white folks. I have wore many a dress made out of de homespun what she wove.
Dere was 17 of us chillun, and I can't 'member de names of but two of 'em now--dey was John
and Sarah. John was Ma's onliest son; all de rest of de other 16 of us was gals.

"Us lived in mud-daubed log cabins what had old stack chimblies made out of sticks and mud.
Our old home-made beds didn't have no slats or metal springs neither. Dey used stout cords
for springs. De cloth what dey made the ticks of dem old hay mattresses and pillows out of
was so coarse dat it scratched us little chillun most to death, it seemed lak to us dem days.
I kin still feel dem old hay mattresses under me now. Evvy time I moved at night it sounded
lak de wind blowin' through dem peach trees and bamboos 'round de front of de house whar I
lives now.

"Grandma Anna was 115 years old when she died. She had done wore herself out in slavery time.
Grandpa, he was sold off somewhar. Both of 'em was field hands.

"Potlicker and cornbread was fed to us chillun, out of big old wooden bowls. Two or three chillun
et out of de same bowl. Grown folks had meat, greens, syrup, cornbread, 'taters and de lak.
'Possums! I should say so. Dey cotch plenty of 'em and atter dey was kilt ma would scald 'em
and rub 'em in hot ashes and dat clean't 'em jus' as pretty and white. OO-o-o but dey was good.
Lord, Yessum! Dey used to go fishin' and rabbit huntin' too. Us jus' fotched in game galore
den, for it was de style dem days. Dere warn't no market meat in slavery days. Seemed lak to
me in dem days dat ash-roasted 'taters and groundpeas was de best somepin t'eat what anybody
could want. 'Course dey had a gyarden, and it had somepin of jus' about evvything what us knowed
anything 'bout in de way of gyarden sass growin' in it. All de cookin' was done in dem big
old open fireplaces what was fixed up special for de pots and ovens. Ashcake was most as good
as 'taters cooked in de ashes, but not quite.

"Summertime, us jus' wore homespun dresses made lak de slips dey use for underwear now. De
coats what us wore over our wool dresses in winter was knowed as 'sacques' den, 'cause dey
was so loose fittin'. Dey was heavy and had wool in 'em too. Marse Lewis, he had a plenty of
sheep, 'cause dey was bound to have lots of warm winter clothes, and den too, dey lakked mutton
to eat. Oh! dem old brogan shoes was coarse and rough. When Marse Lewis had a cow kilt dey
put de hide in de tannin' vat. When de hides was ready, Uncle Ben made up de shoes, and sometimes
dey let Uncle Jasper holp him if dere was many to be made all at one time. Us wore de same
sort of clothes on Sunday as evvyday, only dey had to be clean and fresh when dey was put on
Sunday mornin'.

"Marse Lewis Little and his wife, Miss Sallie, owned us, and Old Miss, she died long 'fore
de surrender. Marse Lewis, he was right good to all his slaves; but dat overseer, he would
beat us down in a minute if us didn't do to suit him. When dey give slaves tasks to do and
dey warn't done in a certain time, dat old overseer would whup 'em 'bout dat. Marster never
had to take none of his Niggers to court or put 'em in jails neither; him and de overseer sot
'em right. Long as Miss Sallie lived de carriage driver driv her and Marse Lewis around lots,
but atter she died dere warn't so much use of de carriage. He jus' driv for Marse Lewis and
piddled 'round de yard den.

"Some slaves larnt to read and write. If dey went to meetin' dey had to go wid deir white folks
'cause dey didn't have no sep'rate churches for de Niggers 'til atter de war. On our Marster's
place, slaves didn't go off to meetin' a t'all. Dey jus' went 'round to one another's houses
and sung songs. Some of 'em read de Bible by heart. Once I heared a man preach what didn't
know how to read one word in de Bible, and he didn't even have no Bible yit.

"De fust baptizin' I ever seed was atter I was nigh 'bout grown. If a slave from our place
ever jined up wid a church 'fore de war was over, I never heared tell nothin' 'bout it.

"Lordy, Miss! I didn't know nothin' 'bout what a funeral was dem days. If a Nigger died dis
mornin', dey sho' didn't waste no time a-puttin' him right on down in de ground dat same day.
Dem coffins never had no shape to 'em; dey was jus' squar-aidged pine boxes. Now warn't dat
turrible?

"Slaves never went nowhar widout dem patterollers beatin' 'em up if dey didn't have no pass.

"Dere was hunderds of acres in dat dere plantation. Marse Lewis had a heap of slaves. De overseer,
he had a bugle what he blowed to wake up de slaves. He blowed it long 'fore day so dat dey
could eat breakfast and be out dere in de fields waitin' for de sun to rise so dey could see
how to wuk, and dey stayed out dar and wukked 'til black dark. When a rainy spell come and
de grass got to growin' fast, dey wukked dem slaves at night, even when de moon warn't shinin'.
On dem dark nights one set of slaves helt lanterns for de others to see how to chop de weeds
out of de cotton and corn. Wuk was sho' tight dem days. Evvy slave had a task to do atter dey
got back to dem cabins at night. Dey each one hed to spin deir stint same as de 'omans, evvy night.

"Young and old washed deir clothes Sadday nights. Dey hardly knowed what Sunday was. Dey didn't
have but one day in de Christmas, and de only diff'unce dey seed dat day was dat dey give 'em
some biscuits on Christmas day. New Year's Day was rail-splittin' day. Dey was told how many
rails was to be cut, and dem Niggers better split dat many or somebody was gwine to git beat up.

"I don't 'member much 'bout what us played, 'cept de way us run 'round in a ring. Us chillun
was allus skeered to play in de thicket nigh de house 'cause Raw Head and Bloody Bones lived
der. Dey used to skeer us out 'bout red 'taters. Dey was fine 'taters, red on de outside and
pretty and white on de inside, but white folks called 'em 'nigger-killers.' Dat was one of
deir tricks to keep us from stealin' dem 'taters. Dere wern't nothin' wrong wid dem 'taters;
dey was jus' as good and healthy as any other 'taters. Aunt Lucy, she was de cook, and she
told me dat slaves was skeered of dem 'nigger-killer' 'taters and never bothered 'em much den
lak dey does de yam patches dese days. I used to think I seed ha'nts at night, but it allus
turned out to be somebody dat was tryin' to skeer me.

"'Bout de most fun slaves had was at dem cornshuckin's. De general would git high on top of
de corn pile and whoop and holler down leadin' dat cornshuckin' song 'til all de corn was done
shucked. Den come de big eats, de likker, and de dancin'. Cotton pickin's was big fun too,
and when dey got through pickin' de cotton dey et and drunk and danced 'til dey couldn't dance
no more.

"Miss, white folks jus' had to be good to sick slaves, 'cause slaves was property. For Old
Marster to lose a slave, was losin' money. Dere warn't so many doctors dem days and home-made
medicines was all de go. Oil and turpentine, camphor, assfiddy (asafetida), cherry bark, sweetgum
bark; all dem things was used to make teas for grown folks to take for deir ailments. Red oak
bark tea was give to chillun for stomach mis'ries.

"All I can ricollect 'bout de comin' of freedom was Old Marster tellin' us dat us was free
as jack-rabbits and dat from den on Niggers would have to git deir own somepin t'eat. It warn't
long atter dat when dem yankees, wid pretty blue clothes on come through our place and dey
stole most evvything our Marster had. Dey kilt his chickens, hogs, and cows and tuk his hosses
off and sold 'em. Dat didn't look right, did it?

"My aunt give us a big weddin' feast when I married Tom Adams, and she sho' did pile up dat
table wid heaps of good eatments. My weddin' dress was blue, trimmed in white. Us had six chillun,
nine grandchillun, and 19 great-grandchillun. One of my grandchillun is done been blind since
he was three weeks old. I sont him off to de blind school and now he kin git around 'most as
good as I kin. He has made his home wid me ever since his Mammy died.

"'Cordin' to my way of thinkin', Abraham Lincoln done a good thing when he sot us free. Jeff
Davis, he was all right too, 'cause if him and Lincoln hadn't got to fightin' us would have
been slaves to dis very day. It's mighty good to do jus' as you please, and bread and water
is heaps better dan dat somepin t'eat us had to slave for.

"I jined up wid de church 'cause I wanted to go to Heben when I dies, and if folks lives right
dey sho' is gwine to have a good restin' place in de next world. Yes Mam, I sho b'lieves in
'ligion, dat I does. Now, Miss, if you ain't got nothin' else to ax me, I'se gwine home and
give dat blind boy his somepin t'eat."

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-Slv. #4]

WASHINGTON ALLEN, EX-SLAVE Born: December --, 1854 Place of birth: "Some where" in South Carolina
Present Residence: 1932-Fifth Avenue, Columbus, Georgia Interviewed: December 18, 1936 [MAY 8 1937]

[TR: Original index refers to "Allen, Rev. W.B. (Uncle Wash)"; however, this informant is different
from the next informant, Rev. W.B. Allen.]

The story of "Uncle Wash", as he is familiarly known, is condensed as follows:

He was born on the plantation of a Mr. Washington Allen of South Carolina, for whom he was
named. This Mr. Allen had several sons and daughters, and of these, one son--George Allen--who,
during the 1850's left his South Carolina home and settled near LaFayette, Alabama. About 1858,
Mr. Washington Allen died and the next year, when "Wash" was "a five-year old shaver", the
Allen estate in South Carolina was divided--all except the Allen Negro slaves. These, at the
instance and insistence of Mr. George Allen, were taken to LaFayette, Alabama, to be sold.
All were put on the block and auctioned off, Mr. George Allen buying every Negro, so that not
a single slave family was divided up.

"Uncle Wash" does not remember what he "fetched at de sale", but he does distinctly remember
that as he stepped up on the block to be sold, the auctioneer ran his hand "over my head and
said: Genilmens, dis boy is as fine as split silk". Then when Mr. George Allen had bought all
the Allen slaves, it dawned upon them, and they appreciated, why he had insisted on their being
sold in Alabama, rather than in South Carolina.

Before he was six years of age, little "Wash" lost his mother and, from then until freedom,
he was personally cared for and looked after by Mrs. George Allen; and the old man wept every
time he mentioned her name.

During the '60's, "Uncle Wash's" father drove a mail and passenger stage between Cusseta and
LaFayette, Alabama--and, finally died and was buried at LaFayette by the side of his wife.
"Uncle Wash" "drifted over" to Columbus about fifty years ago and is now living with his two
surviving children.

He has been married four times, all his wives dying "nachul" deaths. He has also "buried four
chillun".

He was taught to read and write by the sons and daughters of Mr. George Allen, and attended
church where a one-eyed white preacher--named Mr. Terrentine--preached to the slaves each Sunday
"evenin'" (afternoon). The salary of this preacher was paid by Mr. George Allen.

When asked what this preacher usually preached about, "Uncle Wash" answered: "He was a one-eyed
man an' couldn' see good; so, he mout a'made some mistakes, but he sho tole us plenty 'bout
hell fire 'n brimstone."

"Uncle Wash" is a literal worshipper of the memory of his "old time white fokes." The previous
interview for Rev. Allen that is mentioned below is not found in this volume.]

In a second interview, the submission of which was voluntarily sought by himself, this very
interesting specimen of a rapidly vanishing type expressed a desire to amend his previous interview
(of May 10, 1937) to incorporate the following facts:

"For a number of years before freedom, my father bought his time from his master and traveled
about over Russell County (Alabama) as a journeyman blacksmith, doing work for various planters
and making good money--as money went in those days--on the side. At the close of the war, however,
though he had a trunk full of Confederate money, all of his good money was gone.

Father could neither read nor write, but had a good head for figures and was very pious. His
life had a wonderful influence upon me, though I was originally worldly--that is, I drank and
cussed, but haven't touched a drop of spirits in forty years and quit cussing before I entered
the ministry in 1879.

I learned to pray when very young and kept it up even in my unsaved days. My white master's
folks knew me to be a praying boy, and asked me--in 1865--when the South was about whipped
and General Wilson was headed our way--to pray to God to hold the Yankees back. Of course,
I didn't have any love for any Yankees--and haven't now, for that matter--but I told my white
folks straight-from-the-shoulder that I could not pray along those lines. I told them flat-footedly
that, while I loved them and would do any reasonable praying for them, I could not pray against
my conscience: that I not only wanted to be free, but that I wanted to see all the Negroes freed!

I then told them that God was using the Yankees to scourge the slave-holders just as He had,
centuries before, used heathens and outcasts to chastise His chosen people--the Children of
Israel."

(Here it is to be noted that, for a slave boy of between approximately 15 and 17 years of age,
remarkable familiarity with the Old Testament was displayed.)

The Parson then entered into a mild tirade against Yankees, saying:

"The only time the Northern people ever helped the Nigger was when they freed him. They are
not friends of the Negro and many a time, from my pulpit, have I warned Niggers about going
North. No, sir, the colored man doesn't belong in the North---has no business up there, and
you may tell the world that the Reverend W.B. Allen makes no bones about saying that! He also
says that, if it wasn't for the influence of the white race in the South, the Negro race would
revert to savagery within a year! Why, if they knew for dead certain that there was not a policeman
or officer of the law in Columbus tonight, the good Lord only knows what they'd do tonight"!

When the good Parson had delivered himself as quoted, he was asked a few questions, the answers
to which--as shall follow--disclose their nature.

"The lowest down Whites of slavery days were the average overseers. A few were gentlemen, one
must admit, but the regular run of them were trash--commoner than the 'poor white trash'--and,
if possible, their children were worse than their daddies. The name, 'overseer', was a synonym
for 'slave driver', 'cruelty', 'brutishness'. No, sir, a Nigger may be humble and refuse to
talk outside of his race--because he's afraid to, but you can't fool him about a white man!

And you couldn't fool him when he was a slave! He knows a white man for what he is, and he
knew him the same way in slavery times."

Concerning the punishment of slaves, the Reverend said:

"I never heard or knew of a slave being tried in court for any thing. I never knew of a slave
being guilty of any crime more serious than taking something or violating plantation rules.
And the only punishment that I ever heard or knew of being administered slaves was whipping.

I have personally known a few slaves that were beaten to death for one or more of the following
offenses:

  Leaving home without a pass,

  Talking back to--'sassing'--a white person,

  Hitting another Negro,

  Fussing, fighting, and rukkussing in the quarters,

  Lying,

  Loitering on their work,

  Taking things--the Whites called it stealing.

  Plantation rules forbade a slave to:

  Own a firearm,

  Leave home without a pass,

  Sell or buy anything without his master's consent,

  Marry without his owner's consent,

  Have a light in his cabin after a certain hour at night,

  Attend any secret meeting,

  Harbor or [HW: in] any manner assist a runaway slave,

  Abuse a farm animal,

  Mistreat a member of his family, and do

  A great many other things."

When asked if he had ever heard slaves plot an insurrection, the Parson answered in the negative.

When asked if he had personal knowledge of an instance of a slave offering resistance to corporal
punishment, the Reverend shook his head, but said:

"Sometimes a stripped Nigger would say some hard things to the white man with the strap in
his hand, though he knew that he (the Negro) would pay for it dearly, for when a slave showed
spirit that way the master or overseer laid the lash on all the harder."

When asked how the women took their whippings, he said:

"They usually screamed and prayed, though a few never made a sound."

The Parson has had two wives and five children. Both wives and three of his children are dead.
He is also now superannuated, but occasionally does a "little preaching", having only recently
been down to Montezuma, Georgia, on a special call to deliver a message to the Methodist flock
there.

[HW: Dist. 6 Ex-Slave #2] Henrietta Carlisle

JACK ATKINSON--EX-SLAVE Rt. D Griffin, Georgia Interviewed August 21, 1936 [MAY 8 1937]

"Onct a man, twice a child," quoted Jack Atkinson, grey haired darkey, when being interviewed,
"and I done started in my second childhood. I useter be active as a cat, but I ain't, no mo."

Jack acquired his surname from his white master, a Mr. Atkinson, who owned this Negro family
prior to the War Between the States. He was a little boy during the war but remembers "refugeeing"
to Griffin from Butts County, Georgia, with the Atkinsons when Sherman passed by their home
on his march to the sea.

Jack's father, Tom, the body-servant of Mr. Atkinson, "tuck care of him" [HW: during] the four
years they were away at war. "Many's the time I done heard my daddy tell 'bout biting his hands
he wuz so hongry, and him and Marster drinking water outer the ruts of the road, they wuz so
thirsty, during the war."

"Boss Man (Mr. Atkinson), wuz as fine a man as ever broke bread", according to Jack.

When asked how he got married he stated that he "broke off a love vine and throwed it over
the fence and if it growed" he would get married. The vine "just growed and growed" and it
wasn't long before he and Lucy married.

"A hootin' owl is a sho sign of rain, and a screech owl means a death, for a fact."

"A tree frog's holler is a true sign of rain."

Jack maintains that he has received "a second blessing from the Lord" and "no conjurer can
bother him."

Whitley 1-25-37 [HW: Dis #5 Unedited] Minnie B. Ross

EX TOWN SLAVE HANNAH AUSTIN [HW: about 75-85] [APR 8 1937]

When the writer was presented to Mrs. Hannah Austin she was immediately impressed with her
alert youthful appearance. Mrs. Austin is well preserved for her age and speaks clearly and
with much intelligence. The interview was a brief but interesting one. This was due partly
to the fact that Mrs. Austin was a small child when The Civil War ended and too because her
family was classed as "town slaves" so classed because of their superior intelligence.

Mrs. Austin was a child of ten or twelve years when the war ended. She doesn't know her exact
age but estimated it to be between seventy and seventy five years. She was born the oldest
child of Liza and George Hall. Their master Mr. Frank Hall was very kind to them and considerate
in his treatment of them.

Briefly Mrs. Austin gave the following account of slavery as she knew it. "My family lived
in a two room well built house which had many windows and a nice large porch. Our master, Mr.
Hall was a merchant and operated a clothing store. Because Mr. Hall lived in town he did not
need but a few slaves. My family which included my mother, father, sister, and myself were
his only servants. Originally Mr. Hall did not own any slaves, however after marrying Mrs.
Hall we were given to her by her father as a part of her inheritance.

My mother nursed Mrs. Hall from a baby, consequently the Hall family was very fond of her and
often made the statement that they would not part with her for anything in the world, besides
working as the cook for the Hall family my mother was also a fine seamstress and made clothing
for the master's family and for our family. We were allowed an ample amount of good clothing
which Mr. Hall selected from the stock in his store. My father worked as a porter in the store
and did other jobs around the house. I did not have to work and spent most of my time playing
with the Hall children. We were considered the better class of slaves and did not know the
meaning of a hard time.

Other slave owners whipped their slaves severely and often, but I have never known our master
to whip any one of my family. If any one in the family became ill the family doctor was called
in as often as he was needed.

We did not have churches of our own but were allowed to attend the white churches in the afternoon.
The White families attended in the forenoon. We seldom heard a true religious sermon; but were
constantly preached the doctrine of obedience to our masters and mistresses. We were required
to attend church every Sunday.

Marriages were conducted in much the same manner as they are today. After the usual courtship
a minister was called in by the master and the marriage ceremony would then take place. In
my opinion people of today are more lax in their attitude toward marriage than they were in
those days. Following the marriage of a slave couple a celebration would take place often the
master and his family would take part in the celebration.

I remember hearing my mother and father discuss the war; but was too young to know just the
effect the war would have on the slave. One day I remember Mr. Hall coming to my mother telling
her we were free. His exact words were quote--"Liza you don't belong to me any longer you belong
to yourself. If you are hired now I will have to pay you. I do not want you to leave as you
have a home here as long as you live." I watched my mother to see the effect his words would
have on her and I saw her eyes fill with tears. Mr. Hall's eyes filled with tears also.

Soon after this incident a Yankee Army appeared in our village one day. They practically destroyed
Mr. Hall's store by throwing all clothes and other merchandise into the streets. Seeing my
sister and I they turned to us saying, "Little Negroes you are free there are no more masters
and mistresses, here help yourselves to these clothes take them home with you." Not knowing
any better we carried stockings, socks, dresses, underwear and many other pieces home. After
this they opened the smoke house door and told us to go in and take all of the meat we wanted.

On another occasion the mistress called me asking that I come in the yard to play with the
children". Here Mrs. Austin began to laugh and remarked "I did not go but politely told her
I was free and didn't belong to any one but my mama and papa. As I spoke these words my mistress
began to cry.

My mother and father continued to live with the Halls even after freedom and until their deaths.
Although not impoverished most of the Hall's fortune was wiped out with the war".

Mrs. Austin married at the age of 16 years; and was the mother of four children, all of whom
are dead. She was very ambitious and was determined to get an education if such was possible.
After the war Northern white people came south and set up schools for the education of Negroes.
She remembers the organization of the old Storrs School from which one of the present Negroes
Colleges originated.

Mrs. Austin proudly spoke of her old blue back speller, which she still possesses; and of the
days when she attended Storrs School.

As the writer made ready to depart Mrs. Austin smilingly informed her that she had told her
all that she knew about slavery; and every word spoken was the truth.

[HW: Dist. 5 Ex Slave #1 Ross]

"A FEW FACTS OF SLAVERY" As Told by CELESTIA AVERY--EX-SLAVE [MAY 8 1937]

Mrs. Celestia Avery is a small mulatto woman about 5 ft. in height. She has a remarkably clear
memory in view of the fact that she is about 75 years of age. Before the interview began she
reminded the writer that the facts to be related were either told to her by her grandmother,
Sylvia Heard, or were facts which she remembered herself.

Mrs. Avery was born 75 years ago in Troupe County, LaGrange, Ga. the eighth oldest child of
Lenora and Silas Heard. There were 10 other children beside herself. She and her family were
owned by Mr. & Mrs. Peter Heard. In those days the slaves carried the surname of their master;
this accounted for all slaves having the same name whether they were kin or not.

The owner Mr. Heard had a plantation of about 500 acres and was considered wealthy by all who
knew him. Mrs. Avery was unable to give the exact number of slaves on the plantation, but knew
he owned a large number. Cotton, corn, peas, potatoes, (etc.) were the main crops raised.

The homes provided for the slaves were two room log cabins which had one door and one window.
These homes were not built in a group together but were more or less scattered over the plantation.
Slave homes were very simple and only contained a home made table, chair and bed which were
made of the same type of wood and could easily be cleaned by scouring with sand every Saturday.
The beds were bottomed with rope which was run backward and forward from one rail to the other.
On this framework was placed a mattress of wheat straw. Each spring the mattresses were emptied
and refilled with fresh wheat straw.

Slaves were required to prepare their own meals three times a day. This was done in a big open
fire place which was filled with hot coals. The master did not give them much of a variety
of food, but allowed each family to raise their own vegetables. Each family was given a hand
out of bacon and meal on Saturdays and through the week corn ash cakes and meat; which had
been broiled on the hot coals was the usual diet found in each home. The diet did not vary
even at Christmas only a little fruit was added.

Each family was provided with a loom and in Mrs. Avery's family, her grandmother, Sylvia Heard,
did most of the carding and spinning of the thread into cloth. The most common cloth for women
clothes was homespun, and calico. This same cloth was dyed and used to make men shirts and
pants. Dye was prepared by taking a berry known as the shumake berry and boiling them with
walnut peelings. Spring and fall were the seasons for masters to give shoes and clothing to
their slaves. Both men and women wore brogan shoes, the only difference being the piece in
the side of the womens.

One woman was required to do the work around the house there was also one slave man required
to work around the house doing odd jobs. Other than these two every one else was required to
do the heavy work in the fields. Work began at "sun up" and lasted until "sun down". In the
middle of the day the big bell was rung to summon the workers from the field, for their mid-day
lunch. After work hours slaves were then free to do work around their own cabins, such as sewing,
cooking (etc.)

"Once a week Mr. Heard allowed his slaves to have a frolic and folks would get broke down from
so much dancing" Mrs. Avery remarked. The music was furnished with fiddles. When asked how
the slaves came to own fiddles she replied, "They bought them with money they earned selling
chickens." At night slaves would steal off from the Heard plantation, go to LaGrange, Ga. and
sell chickens which they had raised. Of course the masters always required half of every thing
raised by each slave and it was not permissible for any slave to sell anything. Another form
of entertainment was the quilting party. Every one would go together to different person's
home on each separate night of the week and finish that person's quilts. Each night this was
repeated until every one had a sufficient amount of covering for the winter. Any slave from
another plantation, desiring to attend these frolics, could do so after securing a pass from
their master.

Mrs. Avery related the occasion when her Uncle William was caught off the Heard plantation
without a pass, and was whipped almost to death by the "Pader Rollers." He stole off to the
depths of the woods here he built a cave large enough to live in. A few nights later he came
back to the plantation unobserved and carried his wife and two children back to this cave where
they lived until after freedom. When found years later his wife had given birth to two children.
No one was ever able to find his hiding place and if he saw any one in the woods he would run
like a lion.

Mr. Heard was a very mean master and was not liked by any one of his slaves. Secretly each
one hated him. He whipped unmercifully and in most cases unnecessarily. However, he sometimes
found it hard to subdue some slaves who happened to have very high tempers. In the event this
was the case he would set a pack of hounds on him. Mrs. Avery related to the writer the story
told to her of Mr. Heard's cruelty by her grandmother. The facts were as follows: "Every morning
my grandmother would pray, and old man Heard despised to hear any one pray saying they were
only doing so that they might become free niggers. Just as sure as the sun would rise, she
would get a whipping; but this did not stop her prayers every morning before day. This particular
time grandmother Sylvia was in "family way" and that morning she began to pray as usual. The
master heard her and became so angry he came to her cabin seized and pulled her clothes from
her body and tied her to a young sapling. He whipped her so brutally that her body was raw
all over. When darkness fell her husband cut her down from the tree, during the day he was
afraid to go near her. Rather than go back to the cabin she crawled on her knees to the woods
and her husband brought grease for her to grease her raw body. For two weeks the master hunted
but could not find her; however, when he finally did, she had given birth to twins. The only
thing that saved her was the fact that she was a mid-wife and always carried a small pin knife
which she used to cut the navel cord of the babies. After doing this she tore her petticoat
into two pieces and wrapped each baby. Grandmother Sylvia lived to get 115 years old.

Not only was Mr. Henderson cruel but it seemed that every one he hired in the capacity of overseer
was just as cruel. For instance, Mrs. Henderson's grandmother Sylvia, was told to take her
clothes off when she reached the end of a row. She was to be whipped because she had not completed
the required amount of hoeing for the day. Grandmother continued hoeing until she came to a
fence; as the overseer reached out to grab her she snatched a fence railing and broke it across
his arms. On another occasion grandmother Sylvia ran all the way to town to tell the master
that an overseer was beating her husband to death. The master immediately jumped on his horse
and started for home; and reaching the plantation he ordered the overseer to stop whipping
the old man. Mrs. Avery received one whipping, with a hair brush, for disobedience; this was
given to her by the mistress.

Slaves were given separate churches, but the minister, who conducted the services, was white.
Very seldom did the text vary from the usual one of obedience to the master and mistress, and
the necessity for good behavior. Every one was required to attend church, however, the only
self expression they could indulge in without conflict with the master was that of singing.
Any one heard praying was given a good whipping; for most masters thought their prayers no
good since freedom was the uppermost thought in every one's head.

