"Nay, Signor Marchese. I would fain hope it is not so bad as all that. Let this business of
the trial be over, and the Marchese Ludovico, as I doubt not, entirely cleared and absolved,
and all will yet go well. The rest is matter of sorrow which time may be trusted to heal."

"The trial! Ay, the trial. When--eh?--when is it likely to come off, Signor Giovacchino. Yes,
as you say, it would be a good thing if that were over," said the Marchese, with a manner that
indicated a high state of nervous irritability.

"It won't be long; there is little or no hope of any further light being thrown on the matter;
some day next week, I should say; I don't think they will be longer than that; and the sooner
the better--only, that I am afraid you may find the ordeal a disagreeable one."

"Who? I? Why should I--? That is, of course, on Ludovico's account-- "

"Excuse me, Signor Marchese; but you must feel, surely, that it will be absolutely necessary
for you to be present in court."

"I? I be present? Why, don't you see that I am unable to leave my chamber--shall probably never
leave it again; how can I be present in court? It is out of the question."

"Your lordship will pardon me, Signor Marchese, if I point out to you that it is quite indispensable
that you should appear in court on the occasion of the trial," returned the lawyer, firmly.
"Your own excellent judgment, and sense of what is fitting and due to your own position, will,
I am sure, put this matter in an unmistakeable light before you. Think a little what the inferences,
the remarks, the suggestions would be to which your absence on such an occasion would give
rise; not to mention that it can hardly be doubted that the tribunal will think it necessary
to examine your lordship respecting certain points--"

"Me? What can I tell? What can it be necessary to examine me for? I know absolutely nothing;
it is impossible that I should know anything of the matter; besides, I am too ill to leave
my chamber."

"Of course, if Tomosarcbi were, after visiting you by direction of the tribunal, to certify
that you were not in a fit state--"

"I won't see Tomosarcbi; no testimony can be needed to the fact that I am in no condition to
leave the house; I tell you, Signor Fortini, I will not see him; I cannot see anybody."

"I fear, Signor Marchese, that it would be impossible in any other way to avoid complying with
the request of the tribunal for your presence. Besides that, it would be far better, in every
point of view, that you should show yourself in the court. The fact of your absence on such
an occasion could not but be unpleasantly remarked on," urged the lawyer.

"Why? What can I be wanted for? What can I tell them? It is very evident that I am, and must
needs be, utterly ignorant of the whole matter," returned the Marchese.

"There are various points on which the magistrates will, doubtless, wish for the information
which your lordship can give them, although you may have no means of throwing any light on
the main facts of the assassination. They will wish, for instance, to ask respecting the circumstances
of the Marchese Ludovico's expedition to the Pineta. The police, you must remember, Signor
Marchese, are already aware that you were cognizant of the Marchese Ludovico's intention of
taking La Lalli to the Pineta. That has been ascertained from the admission of the Conte Leandro--"

"A thousand curses on the Conte Leandro," exclaimed the Marchese.

"His figure in the matter is a deplorable one, truly; but you can understand, Signor Marchese,
that the court will desire to ask some questions of you on this head--nothing that you can
have any difficulty in answering or any objection to answer; but I am sure you will see, on
consideration, that it would have a very bad effect for your lordship to show the least desire
to avoid being present."

"It will be most distasteful to me--very painful, indeed--I don't think it ought to be required
of me under all the circumstances," pleaded the unhappy man.

"Unpleasant it will be, doubtless; the whole affair has not been a pleasant one for anybody
concerned in it, Signor Marchese--for any one in Ravenna, I may say. But you may depend upon
it that it will be the wish of the court and of everybody present to make it as little painful
to you as possible. And it is my very serious and very urgent advice to you to make the necessary
exertion, and not to express to any one either the intention or the wish to absent yourself."

And then the lawyer took his leave--not surprised that the Marchese, broken down and in the
state in which he saw him, should feel it very disagreeable to face his fellow citizens on
the occasion of the trial; but, perhaps, having some other thoughts in his mind besides those
he expressed as to the ill effect likely to be produced by any refusal of the Marchese to make
his appearance in the court.

CHAPTER VI

The Trial

The police authorities were longer in preparing their case than Signor Fortini had anticipated
they would be; but at length it was known throughout the city that the day for the trial had
been fixed. It was to take place on a Monday morning towards the latter part of Lent.

It had been rumoured in the city that the delay had been occasioned by hopes which the authorities
had conceived that the female prisoner would be induced to make confession of the crime. The
imprisonment and the repeated interrogatories she had undergone had produced a great effect
upon her. She had become downcast to a very much greater degree than she had been in the days
immediately following her arrest. She was very silent, refraining even from the earnest and
frequent protestations of her innocence, which, during the early days of her imprisonment,
she had seized every opportunity of making. She passed many hours apparently plunged in deep
introspective thought; she wept much, and passed much of her time in prayer.

And the judgment of the experienced people about her led them to interpret these manifestations
as signs of an approaching confession. When at length the day for the trial was fixed, it was
reported that Paolina Foscarelli had confessed. But the criminal authorities keep the secrets
of their prison house in such matters; and nothing certain was known upon the subject.

The very general impression, however, throughout the city was that, whether she confessed or
not, she was the real criminal, and that such would be declared by the tribunal to be the case.
And such a solution of the mystery was readily accepted by the Ravenna world as the most satisfactory
that under the unhappy circumstances could be arrived at.

The disgrace that rested on the city in consequence of the perpetration of so foul a crime,
and on such a victim, had been felt throughout the city to a degree, that can be duly appreciated
only by those, who are acquainted with the strength and the exclusiveness of Italian municipal
patriotism. And it was a matter of general congratulation that the perpetrator of it should
turn out to be no Ravennata citizen, but an unknown stranger from Venice. It would have been
dreadful indeed if such a deed should have been brought home to the door of a scion of the
oldest and most distinguished noble family in Ravenna. Of course everybody had all along known,
and had said from the beginning, that whatever might turn out to be the truth, this at least
was impossible and altogether out of the question.

To many minds the guilt of the Venetian girl seemed so clear that it appeared altogether superfluous
to spend time and trouble in bringing her to confess it. Her hatred of the victim she had confessed;
and the confession of it was in evidence. The motive for that hatred was perfectly well known
and understood. It was a motive that many a time ere now had led to similar deeds. She was
close at hand when the crime must have been committed. She could give no satisfactory account
of her reasons for going thither, or of the occupation of her time during the hours, which
must have comprised the moment of the assassination. And the manner of the murder rendered
it infinitely probable that it must have been the deed of a female. What more could be wanted?
It was rarely that a murder had ever been brought home to the murderer by circumstantial evidence
of a more conclusive and irresistible character.

Signor Fortini was among those who thought and reasoned thus. But in the several interviews
which he had had with the Marchese Ludovico, he had not judged it judicious to enlarge to him
on this part of the subject. While assuring him that he might make himself perfectly easy,
and that his innocence in the matter would beyond all doubt be fully recognised, he had preferred
to lead him to imagine that the result of the trial would be altogether negative; that it would
be found that no case that would warrant a conviction should be made out against any party.

Signor Logarini had meanwhile made one or two more excursions to the Basilica of St. Apollinare.
But he had gained nothing by his pains. The padre Fabiano was on each occasion found in bed,
no whit better to all appearance than he had been on that day when the police Commissary and
Signor Fortini visited him together. Nor had Signor Logarini's persevering cross-examinations
availed to obtain anything more from the aged friar than repetitions of his first statements.
Nevertheless the Commissary was confirmed more than ever in his opinion that the friar knew
something; if he could only be made to speak. Still it had been determined not to attempt to
bring the old man by force before the tribunal. There was every reason to think that nothing
would be obtained from him in addition to what he had already said. In all probability he was
really ill, more or less, as Signor Logarini said, and living under the government of the Holy
Father, it was necessary to treat ecclesiastical personages with a greater degree of consideration
than might have been accorded to such under similar circumstances on the other side of the
frontier between the territory of the church and Austria.

Despite the friar's illness, however, Fra Simone, the lay-brother, had once or twice been observed
lately in Ravenna. He was seen sauntering through the streets with his long linen wallet over
his shoulder, stopping at a corner for a little gossip here, and receiving a contribution to
the store in his bag from some friar- loving devout old woman there. There was nothing remarkable
in such a sight in the streets of Ravenna in any way. Only Fra Simone was very rarely seen
there. And when Signor Pietro Logarini, without whose knowledge scarcely a cat stirred abroad
in Ravenna, was told of the circumstance, he said to himself that the Padre Fabiano was interested
in knowing what people said and thought of the coming trial.

