June 1893.

       *       *       *       *       *

 CONTENTS.

 MEMOIRS OF A FEMALE NIHILIST.
     II.--IN PRISON.
     BY SOPHIE WASSILIEFF.

 THE LEGS OF SISTER URSULA.
     BY RUDYARD KIPLING.

 "LIONS IN THEIR DENS."
     VI.--EMILE ZOLA.
     BY V. R. MOONEY.

 PEOPLE I HAVE NEVER MET.
     BY SCOTT RANKIN.

 AN ETHIOPIAN CRICKET MATCH.
     BY EDEN PHILLPOTTS.

 MY FIRST BOOK.
     BY R. M. BALLANTYNE.

 TRIALS AND TROUBLES OF AN ARTIST.
     BY FRED MILLER.

 THE BROTHERS' AGENCY.
     BY DO BAHIN.

 MY OWN MURDERER.
     BY E. J. GOODMAN.

 THE IDLERS CLUB.
     SHALL WE HAVE A DRAMATIC ACADEMY?

               -----

II.--IN PRISON.

The life of a female prisoner! It is so uniformly dull that I fear to weary you, friends, in
repeating its history; while for me, even now, outside of some few days only too memorable,
the twenty-seven months spent in the fortress are like a great hole, empty and badly lighted,
at the bottom of which sometimes passed human shadows and some few phantasmagorical scenes.

In these scattered remembrances, the foremost is my cell and the first moments I passed there.

About ten feet square, its stone walls were covered with whitewash. For furniture, a whitewood
stool showing the marks of time and hard wear, a rough deal table, a narrow iron bedstead with
thin mattress, a pillow filled with horsehair, and a coarse grey blanket such as is used for
covering horses. These details, lighted up for a moment by the candle held by the director
of the prison who accompanied me, soon fade away, not into darkness, but into semi-obscurity,
for above the door, the dark outlines of which form a contrast with the surrounding whitewashed
walls, is a square of glass the width of the door, and behind this burns a small paraffin lamp.
By the uncertain light of this lamp, I try to get a more exact idea of my new abode.

High up in the wall opposite the door is a deep and dark hole which I presume to be a window.
On the floor, in addition to the slender furniture noticed by the light of the candle, I vaguely
distinguish the outlines of my travelling trunk and of a water-jug. The cold humid air gives
off a musty odour. Silence reigns, but, as I move, the sound of my footsteps echoes and re-echoes
beneath the vaulted roof of the corridor.

All this gives to my cell the aspect of a funeral vault, into which, a few moments ago, I entered
full of feverish life and vibrating emotion, and in which I now suddenly find myself buried.
From time to time, at intervals of about ten minutes, this cavern is lighted up a little more
brightly. There is in the door, at about the height of a man, another window much smaller than
that to which I have already referred, a sort of wicket that I have not before noticed, and
which on the outside appears to be protected by a shutter. At intervals, this shutter opens
with a metallic noise; a ray of bluish light penetrates into my cell, and behind the wicket
appears the head and part of the shoulders of a man. He wears a moustache, and for several
seconds regards me attentively. Accustomed to the stronger gaslight burning in the corridor,
he can only vaguely distinguish what is going on in the cell. His eyes, fixed on me at short
intervals, vex and trouble me. Taking advantage of one of these intervals, I rapidly change
the clothes I am wearing for others larger and more comfortable, which Aunt Vera has put into
my trunk, and then I throw myself upon my narrow bed. A few minutes later, amidst the noise
of iron bars and padlocks being removed, my cell door opens, and then a woman appears, and
behind her I notice several men wearing blue uniforms braided with silver. The woman, whose
features, owing to her back being turned towards the light, I can only vaguely distinguish,
appears to be either a servant, or a woman of the people; she alone enters my cell.

This apparition causes a shudder to go through my entire being. I have before now heard of
an atrocious and odious proceeding, of a special search, for the carrying out of which the
prisoners, gagged and strapped on their beds, or to the iron rings found in the walls of the
cells of all political prisons, are reduced to absolute helplessness, while men and women appointed
to this work examine their mouths, their hair, their ears, every fold of their garments and
of their bodies, in the search for some scrap of paper hidden at the last moment, and on which,
perchance, may be found a name or an address.

The sudden remembrance of these examinations[1] exasperates and freezes me with terror. I rise
and stand trembling by the side of my bed, with arms outstretched to defend myself, while I
follow each of my visitor's movements, and question her, "What does she require? Why has she
come?" She neither replies nor turns her head, but gathers up the garments I have taken off,
together with the few toilet necessaries I have placed on the table, then turning towards me
she extends her right arm. I start back, and my question, "What do you require of me?" becomes
almost a scream.

 [1] These examinations of the person only take place in cases of
 exceptional gravity. On the other hand, it is not prisoners alone who
 have to submit to the ordeal, but all persons suspected of concealing
 papers, Russian travellers returning from abroad, &c., &c.

Ah! no--happily, no!--it is only to take the fur mantle that I have used to cover my feet,
and that, silently, and with the same noiseless footsteps, my ghostly visitor takes away, together
with my other effects.

Are they to be examined, or are they simply taken away in order to be replaced by the prisoner's
garb? I know not, and the question is one of perfect indifference to me. But the clang of iron
bars and padlocks being replaced on the door, all this noise of iron, which so painfully affected
me an hour ago, I now listen to with a sigh of relief.

This noise, and possibly my cry, appears to have awakened some of the other prisoners. I hear
blows struck on the doors; voices, unknown to me, or rendered unrecognisable by reason of the
thickness of these cursed walls, appear to be crying out and questioning. The questions remain
unanswered, but they tell me that I am not alone; that I need only cry for help in order, if
need be, to put the entire prison in a state of revolt. This idea soothes my nerves, and I
lie close against the humid wall, behind which I feel there is an unknown but blessed protection,
and with my face pressed into the hard horsehair pillow, I give vent to my first prisoner's
tears; tears of agony and impotent revolt, tears of farewell to life.

By daylight the appearance of my cell is not improved. The narrow door made from rough oak
is crossed on the inside with iron bars, while those on the outside, together with the locks
and padlocks, render it almost as solid as the walls. As to the latter, white at night, they
appear in the day, thanks to the moisture with which they are covered, a bluish grey. The window,
placed high in a niche of the wall, is about twenty inches square, and is protected on the
inner side by a grating. It is double, composed of eight small panes, those on the inner side
being of fluted ground-glass, so that it is impossible to see what is going on outside. As
the window is never opened, the dust has accumulated, and the light that now filters through
is dull and grey. Grey are the stone blocks of which the floor is composed; grey the oak door,
the furniture, and the walls; grey the narrow bed, with coarse grey covering, and all this
grey, of which afterwards I learned to distinguish the shades, constitutes a cloud which presses
and weighs upon the prisoner. Later on, in the Swiss mountains, it sometimes happened that
I was enveloped in a cloud which, intercepting light and sound, cut me off from the rest of
the world. A sojourn in one of these clouds gives to the surprised traveller, by reason of
its rarity, a series of curious impressions. But twenty-seven months in a cloud is a long time!
A very long time! Three times each day, with a noise of falling iron, the door of my cell opened,
and on the threshold appeared two men in blue uniforms braided with silver, and armed with
swords and revolvers. A third, dressed as an orderly, entered my cell carrying a tray, on which,
morning and evening, was placed a glass, a teapot, sugar, and bread--at noon, a bowl of soup,
and a plate containing the daily ration of meat and vegetables, all cut in small pieces. In
the morning the orderly swept out my cell, filled my water-jug, and, if so desired, opened
a movable pane at the top of the window, which when closed was secured by a catch.

These three silent and regular visits were the sole events of the day. Outside of these--an
absolute void, a heavy silence, broken from time to time by the clang of a sword-scabbard on
the pavement or the jingle of a spur, instantly suppressed.

This silence, this void, I feel but in a slight degree during the first days after my arrest--that
is to say, physically. Morally, however, although separated from the world by these thick walls,
I am still too near to it. At every hour of the day I can picture to myself what is taking
place at home and amongst my friends, and I live their life. The desire to know if the others
have been arrested, and under what circumstances, mingles with the anxiety which preoccupies
me. I await with impatience the first interrogatory examination, for the questions then asked
are for the political prisoner the only indications obtainable from which he can form an idea
of why he has been arrested, what are the charges against him, and what fate he may expect!

I am very weary because of sleepless nights, partly due to being obliged to lie down in my
clothes, and also because of excitement, which tends to keep me awake. My days I spend in alternately
feverishly promenading my cell and lying on my bed in a state which is neither sleeping nor
waking. Gradually I learn to correspond with my neighbours by means of telegraphic signals.
Ah! those signals! How carefully should they be studied by all those whose fate it may one
day be to be confined in a political prison, and who in Russia is not liable to such a fate?
I know the signals theoretically--that is to say, I know how the alphabet is produced. But
from theory to practice is a long stride, and to what movements of impatience have I given
way, how desperately in my unnerved state have I struggled in order to learn the meaning of
the light blows struck against the walls, and to understand the precious words that were addressed
to me.

After a fortnight of such days, each of which, taken by itself, seemed more empty and slower
than the previous one, but which, taken as a whole, appeared, by reason of their absolute uniformity,
to have passed like a dream, I am at last summoned to the cabinet of the director of the prison,
in order to be interrogated. The cabinet is at the other end of the corridor, and only separated
from the latter by an antechamber, the doors and windows of which are barred and grilled in
the same manner as the cells. Notwithstanding this, and although the distance is so short,
an escort, composed of an officer of constabulary, two subalterns, and a private, await me
outside my cell, armed with revolvers in their belts and sword-bayonets in their hands. This
display of force for a woman prisoner, who is little more than a child, causes me to smile.

Arrived at the Director's cabinet, a large whitewashed room, in the centre of which is a table
covered by a green cloth, and on which are papers, I find myself in the presence of three gentlemen.
The first of these is a short, fat man, with bald pointed head, sharp, crafty grey eyes, and
he reminds me of one of the rats with which the prison abounds, but it is a rat in uniform.
This is the director of the prison, Capt. W----. The second is Col. P----, who, a fortnight
ago, arrested me. He is still young, tall, broad-shouldered, and his constabulary uniform seems
almost too tight for him. His face, square and massive, is pitted with smallpox, his moustache
small and fair, and his eyes sharp and ferret-like. The third, who is in mufti, is Mr. N----,
the procurer to the Chamber of Judgments.[2] Tall, stout, with an insignificant face, brown
eyes, and a brown beard shaved on the chin, he is still a young man. In the town of X----,
where he is a stranger, he enjoys a reputation for ability and intelligence in conducting examinations.
I know him by sight, and his presence gives me cause for inquietude, for, as a rule, in ordinary
cases he is satisfied to leave their conduct to one of his substitutes. I cannot help noticing
the air of wellbeing and repose which characterises these gentlemen, as compared with my nervous
and fatigued state, and the comparison puts me on my guard.

 [2] Court of Justice which, if necessary, revises the judgements of the
 other courts, and deals with cases of exceptional gravity. Doubting the
 best judges--since the acquittal of Vera Vassoulitch--the Government no
 longer confides political cases to civil courts, but hands them over
 either to martial courts, or the Chamber of Judgments. This latter court
 has no examining judge, that function being undertaken by the procurer.

I mistrust the half-closed eyes, apparently tired and sleepy, with which Mr. N---- examines
me, and I also mistrust my outspoken nature and the ease with which I am carried away, characteristics
which Serge and Aunt Vera have so often tried to repress. On the table is the parcel of books
found at my home at the time of my arrest. Where they come from remains an enigma which I fear
to touch, because its solution may compromise some of my relatives and friends. Therefore,
after I have replied to sundry questions concerning my social status, I refuse to answer any
other. My refusal provokes much dissatisfaction, especially on the part of Colonel P----, who
resorts to heroic measures, promising, if I speak, to immediately set me at liberty, but threatening,
if I refuse, a long imprisonment and, possibly, hard labour. After half-an-hour devoted to
a discussion, in which Mr. N---- takes only a very small part, I am escorted to my cell, and
informed that I have a week in which to reflect. Tired out, nervously excited, I have learnt
nothing as to my probable fate. On the other hand, the large sheet of white paper, which was
intended for my confession, only bears my name, age, address, and the statement that, as to
my political opinions, I am a revolutionary socialist, and this document I have signed.

The scene in the Director's cabinet is renewed two or three times. I take advantage of these
examinations to ask for books and the removal of the "blue angel," whose almost continual presence
at the wicket of my door is intended to keep me from communicating with my neighbours, to render
my life more miserable, to force me to confess, and to make it a matter of impossibility for
me to change my garments, or enjoy any repose. Aunt Vera, to whom, according to prison regulations,
I am allowed to write once a month, works towards the same end. At last, one fine day, Capt.
W---- comes to my cell and informs me that, morning or evening, when I desire it, I can dismiss
the sentry for half-an-hour. Two men who follow Capt. W---- bring in my large travelling trunk,
in which, among other things, I find part of my boarding school trousseau, including bedding
and the numbered knife, fork, and spoon. At the same time, I obtain permission to take books
from the prison library. These consist principally of various editions of the Gospels, and
the dull "lives" of saints who never troubled themselves about earthly affairs.

Thanks to these books, of which I soon get a selection, to be later on replaced by others sent
by Aunt Vera; thanks to the whiteness of my quilt and tablecloth[3]; and, lastly, to a few
toilet objects found in my trunk, and an alarm clock, which I still possess, my cell appears
less repulsive than heretofore. And when at night, dressed in one of those long white flannel
dressing-gowns, which Aunt Vera has made especially for me, I stretch myself in my bed, I am
happy as one rarely is between those walls covered with the dew of prisoners' tears, and dream
of immense steppes, the blue sea, and a vast expanse free and flooded in sunlight.

 [3] The regulations admit only articles in white, black, or grey.

II.

This period, so poor in events, is for me most memorable, for it is the commencement of my
monotonous life as a prisoner. I spend the greater portion of my time reading. Pen, ink, and
paper are forbidden to political prisoners, as are also newspapers, reviews, and other works
dealing with current events. Even the books allowed, although they have already been passed
by the Public Censor, are again examined by Colonel P----, who rigorously eliminates every
line even distantly hinting at politics or social life, or which may appear to him "subversive."
Thanks to this system, I for some time read nothing but scientific and philosophic works, for
which classes of reading I am too young and but ill-prepared. Gradually, however, these works
take hold upon me; they appeal to my pride, and I struggle to vanquish the difficulties of
understanding these vast systems which rule the world, of which I know so little. They cause
me to reflect, and appeal to my imagination. Outside of these works, I write Aunt Vera to send
me those of different poets and celebrated novelists, and to send them as much as possible
in chronological order, so that I may improve my knowledge of literature. This simple desire
is in opposition to Colonel P----'s system. Fortunately, he does not know foreign languages,
and such books are sent for approval to Mr. N----, who, more intelligent than his colleague,
does not need to read a book through to grasp its motive, and so he signs most of what is presented
to him, and then they are sent to me. Reading, with short intervals for needlework or embroidery,
constitutes my daily life, excepting for the interruptions for meals and the daily walk in
the narrow prison yard. There is very little to attract in this solitary walk in a small paved
court-yard, surrounded by high walls, and with a soldier or policeman at each corner. The walk
is soon over, however, for only one prisoner is allowed there at one time, and there are many
prisoners, and the winter days are short. The most peaceable time is the twilight hour. Then
the feeble light reflected from the snow and filtered through the frost-covered panes of my
window rapidly declines. Then I am forced to drop work or reading, and I abandon myself to
the current of my sad thoughts. I feel tired and discouraged. The slow course of a political
trial of which the preliminary examinations often extend over several years; the absolute and
arbitrary character of the proceedings, the ready-made verdict sent from St. Petersburg; the
prisoner's ignorance of the offence of which he is accused, and of which he seldom obtains
details until the trial is ended; the disastrous influence which prison life exercises, even
on the strongest, all tend to prove that, once in prison, one can never be certain of regaining
liberty. This idea, which the anxiety and the fatigue of the first few days chases away, returns
later on with renewed force. Then another, not less painful and more important, creeps into
the brain, namely, the absolute inutility of all that one can do or learn. At such times, in
the semi-obscurity of my cell, when the wind is shaking my window as though it would tear it
from its stone casing, I, who am only eighteen or nineteen years of age, ask myself, with infinite
agony of soul, of what use are these books, of what use is life, if it is only to be a longer
or shorter suffering, without the opportunity of being useful for something or to somebody?

To escape from these thoughts, I often pass the twilight hour at my window. The prison regulations
forbid it, but prisoners pay little attention to this or any other rule, and our keepers, soldiers,
officers, or Captain W---- passing by, and noticing a prisoner at the window, simply shrug
their shoulders as who would say, "What can they see?" And after all they are right, for there
is little to be seen. Above, a small patch of sky; below, under the window, a sentry pacing
up and down; farther on, the wall surrounding the prison; beyond that, the outside wall surrounding
the fortress; and lastly, a plain, through which a river takes its course. At times on this
plain I notice moving figures. Sometimes, too, the evening breeze brings to my ears the sound
of laughter, a call, or a soldier's song. These indications of life in the distance are so
feeble that in reality they amount to very little. And yet, in order to catch them on the wing,
I sometimes pass hours at the little open square in my window, in spite of the cold and the
snow and rain beating upon my face.

But now it is night. Tea is served, together with cold meat, purchased with money deposited
at the prison office by prisoners or their friends. The little lamp above the door is lighted,
the cell is locked, and the key handed over to the prison director. This regulation is not
without its dangers[4], but I am thankful to know that, although I cannot go out, nor even
receive the friends I so much desire to see, still there is no fear of a sudden visit from
Colonel P---- or his soldiers; nor of one of those examinations that sometimes take place in
the cells. I also like the lamplight at night. Too dim to read or work by, it enlarges and
transforms my little cell, so sad and grey by daylight, and in filling it with a golden mist
produces an illusion of warmth and life. Besides, the evening is the time for telegraphic communications
with neighbours, conversations which, thanks to the impossibility of the "blue angel's" interruption,
are often prolonged far into the night. This is also the hour for memories and dreams. Tired
of counting the rapid and hardly perceptible blows, and putting together the letters and words
composing the sentences they convey, I stretch myself upon my bed; I gaze into the dim and
golden mist, and gradually people it with life and movement. Again I see our immense plains,
the towns, the country with its innumerable natural riches, and the suffering and misery which
our régime imposes upon the inhabitants, and the view of which agonises my heart. The scene
is gradually peopled with known and loved faces, amongst which those of Serge and Aunt Vera
oftenest appear. Sometimes the figures appear one after the other, then in groups, bringing
back details of their life and of mine. These figures appearing before me stand out in such
strong relief, they are so truly alive, that I sometimes forget my past and try to read the
future of those for whom it exists--and for others I build castles in Spain. Often, too, joining
my desires to all that my intelligence and imagination can create that is beautiful, I indulge
in Utopias, and before my eyes, enlarged by the feverish dream, pass immense crowds, free,
good, beautiful and happy, crowds grand as humanity.

 [4] In 1877, or '78, an Odessa prisoner, named Solomine, in an access of
 melancholia, tied himself on his bed and then set fire to the bedding.
 The smoke issuing through the door cracks warned the keepers, but the
 key had been handed to the director, and he was in town. When the door
 was at last forced open there only remained the ashes of the bedding and
 a partly carbonised corpse.

The noise of footsteps, or the closing of a door, a groan or a cry, sometimes disperse these
memories and dreams; for in the prison no doors open at night save to commit fresh prisoners,
and no cries are heard save cries for help. Uneasy, I rise, as others did the night I was brought
here, and listen. If the noise or the groan is prolonged, if the cry is repeated, I and others
knock on the wicket of our doors in order to call the attention of the "blue angel." As he
is not allowed to speak to the prisoners, he generally indicates by dumb motions that all is
well and that one may sleep in peace. But as he opens the wicket we obtain a glimpse of part
of the corridor, and that often enables us to judge of what is taking place. Besides, these
signals are intended to convey to the new arrival, or the comrade taken ill, that he is not
alone, and that we are watching. Generally this suffices, but if not, then one or more of the
prisoners takes up some hard object, such as a bottle or stool, and commences to knock on the
door. In an instant the prison is alarmed, the prisoners, suddenly awakened, call for an explanation,
often difficult to furnish, and in turn seize their stools and strike. The din produced by
these blows, struck simultaneously, is enormous, and I know and can imagine nothing more frightfully
lugubrious than to be suddenly awakened by this awful noise, and to find oneself in a cold
cell from which there is no issue.

This method, one of the few employed by prisoners for the purpose of imposing their collective
will, is only resorted to in exceptional cases, as, for instance, when it is necessary to force
the warders and the director to attend to a sick comrade, or to summon the doctor at an unusual
hour.

Outside of these events, outside of memories and dreams, my prison life has also its joys.
These consist in the letters I receive from Serge and Aunt Vera. The former are full of a forced
gaiety, short and commonplace, for the prison regulations forbid prisoners to write on other
subjects save their health, clothes, and books, and they are all read by a constabulary officer,
who acts as censor.

Aunt Vera's letters are long, and she tries to encourage me by a recital of the efforts she
is making in order to obtain an interview with me, and each of her dear letters ends with "until
we meet." But that "until" is long, and lasts eight months. At last, one day, at the commencement
of summer, I hear a male voice in the corridor cry, "No. 16 for an interview." My heart throbs
as though it would burst, and as soon as my door is opened I rush into the corridor, and then
into the antechamber. I push the door pointed out by the warder, who enters with me, and instead
of finding myself in Aunt Vera's arms, rush against a wire screen, light but strong, and closely
woven. This network is high, and stretched entirely across the room. A few steps beyond is
a similar screen, and between, as in a cage, is a constabulary officer with red, bloated face,
who, with hands behind his back, walks slowly up and down.

This officer, these nets, this drunkard's face, blot out at intervals the gentle form of Aunt
Vera, who, on the other side of the cage, is doing her utmost to smile at me through her tears.
Later on I get accustomed to all this, but at this first interview, so much desired, so long
waited for, I feel choking with rage and despair. I do not know how to reply to Aunt Vera's
enquiries, and, when I do, my voice is so strange that it causes her to murmur in despair--"My
God, how you are changed, my little one!"

Changed! It is possible! The prison so crushes its victims that it is no wonder they change,
especially when they are young and stay there a long time. Of the changes in myself I am aware
only much later. In waiting, my slow, dull life is passed in a cloud, which covers and presses
upon the prisoner until the day when the lightning flash and the tempest rends the clouds and
brings down showers of tears and blood.

(To be continued.)

The Legs of Sister Ursula.

BY RUDYARD KIPLING.

ILLUSTRATIONS BY HAL HURST.

           -----

The one man of all men who could have told this tale and lived has long since gone to his place;
and there is no apology for those that would follow in the footsteps of Lawrence Sterne.

In a nameless city of a land that shall be nameless, a rich man lived alone. His wealth had
bought him a luxurious flat on the fifth floor of a red-brick mansion, whose grilles were of
hammered iron, and whose halls were of inlaid marble. When he needed attendance, coals, his
letters, a meal, a messenger or a carriage, he pressed an electric button and his wants were
satisfied almost as swiftly as even petulant wealth could expect. An exceedingly swift lift
bore him to and from his rooms, and in his rooms he had gathered about him all that his eye
desired--books in rich cases with felted hinges, ivories from all the world, rugs, lamps, cushions,
couches, engravings and rings with engravings upon them, miniatures of pretty women, scientific
toys and china from Persia. He had friends and acquaintances as many as he could befriend or
know; and some said that more than one woman had given him her whole love. Therefore, he could
have lacked nothing whatever.

One day a hot sickness touched him with its finger, and he became no more than a sick man alone
among his possessions, the sport of dreams and devils and shadows, sometimes a log and sometimes
a lunatic crying in delirium. Before his friends forsook him altogether, as healthy brutes
will forsake the wounded, they saw that he was efficiently doctored, and the expensive physician
who called upon him at first three times a day, and later only once, caused him to be nursed
by a nun. "Science is good," said the physician, "but for steady, continuous nursing, with
no science in it, Religion is better--and I know Sister Ursula."

So this sick man was nursed by a nun, young and fairly pretty, but, above all, skilful. When
he got better he would give the convent, and not Sister Ursula, a thankoffering which would
be spent among the poor whom Sister Ursula chiefly attended. At first the man knew nothing
of the nun's existence--he was in the country beyond all creeds--but later a white coifed face
came and went across his visions, and at last, spent and broken, he woke to see a very quiet
young woman in black moving about his room. He was too weak to speak: too weak almost to cling
to life any more. In his despair he thought that it was not worth clinging to; but the woman
was at least a woman and alive. The touch of her fingers in his as she gave him the medicine
was warm. She testified to the existence of a world full of women also alive--the world he
was beginning to disbelieve in. He watched her sitting in the sunshine by the window, and counted
the light creeping down from bead to bead of the rosary at her waist. They then moved his bed
to the window that he might look down upon the stately avenue that ran by the flat-house, and
watch the people going to and fro about their business. But the change, instead of cheering,
cast him into a deeper melancholy. It was nearly a hundred feet, sheer drop, to those healthy
people walking so fast, and the mere distance depressed him unutterably. He played with the
scores of visiting-cards that his friends had left for him, and he tried to play with the knobs
of the desk close to the head of his bed, and he was very, very wretched.

One morning he turned his face away from the sunlight and took no interest in anything, while
the hand turned back upon the dial so swiftly that it almost alarmed the doctor. He said to
himself: "Bored, eh? Yes. You're just the kind of over-educated, over-refined man that would
drop his hold on life through sheer boredom. You've been a most interesting case so far, and
I won't lose you." He said to Sister Ursula that he would send an entirely fresh prescription
by his boy, and that Sister Ursula must give it to the invalid every twenty minutes without
fail. Also, if the man responded, it might be well to talk to him a little. "He needs cheering
up. There is nothing the matter with him now; but he won't pick up."

There can be few points of sympathy between a man born, bred, trained, and sold for and to
the world and a good nun made for the service of other things. Sister Ursula's voice was very
sweet, but the matter of her speech did not interest. The invalid lay still, looking out of
the window upon the street all dressed in its Sunday afternoon emptiness. Then he shut his
eyes. The doctor's boy rang at the door. Sister Ursula stepped out into the hall, not to disturb
the sleeper, and took the medicine from the boy's hand. Then the lift shot down again, and
even as she turned the wind of its descent puffed up and blew to the spring-lock door of the
rooms with a click only a little more loud than the leap of her terrified heart.

Sister Ursula tried the door softly, but rich men with many hundred pounds worth of bric-à-brac
buy themselves very well made doors that fasten with singularly cunning locks. Then the lift
returned with the boy in charge, and, so soon as his Sunday and rather distracted attention
was drawn to the state of affairs, he suggested that Sister Ursula should go down to the basement
and speak to the caretaker, who doubtless had a duplicate key. To the basement, therefore,
Sister Ursula went with the medicine-bottle clasped to her breast, and there, among mops and
brooms and sinks and heating pipes, and the termini of all the electric communications of that
many-storied warren, she found, not the caretaker, but his wife, reading a paper, with her
feet on a box of soap. The caretaker's wife was Irish, and a Catholic, reverencing the Church
in all its manifestations. She was not only sympathetic, but polite. Her husband had gone out,
and, being a prudent guardian of the interests confided to him, had locked up all the duplicate
keys.

"An' the saints only know whin Mike'll be back av a Sunday," she concluded cheerfully, after
a history of Mike's peculiarities. "He'll be afther havin' supper wid friends."

"The medicine!" said Sister Ursula, looking at the inscription on the bottle. "It must begin
at twenty minutes past five. There are only ten minutes now. There must--oh! there must be a way!"

"Give him a double dose next time. The docthor won't know the differ." The convent of Sister
Ursula is not modelled after Irish ideals, and the present duty before its nun was to return
to the locked room with the medicine. Meantime the minutes flew bridleless, and Sister Ursula's
eyes were full of tears.

"I must get to the room," she insisted. "Oh, surely, there is a way, any way!"

"There's wan way," said the caretaker's wife, stung to profitable thought by the other's distress.
"And that's the way the tenants would go in case av fire. To be sure now I might send the lift
boy."

"It would frighten him to death. He must not see strangers. What is the way?"

"If we wint into the cellar an' out into the area, we'll find the ground ends av the fire-eshcapes
that take to all the rooms. Go aisy, dear."

Sister Ursula had gone down the basement steps through the cellar into the area, and with clenched
teeth was looking up the monstrous sheer of red-brick wall cut into long strips by the lessening
perspective of perpendicular iron ladders. Under each window each ladder opened out into a
little, a very little, balcony. The rest was straighter than a ship's mast.

The caretaker's wife followed, panting; came out into the sunshine, and, shading her eyes,
took stock of the ground.

"He'll be No. 42 on the Fifth. Thin this ladder goes up to it. Bad luck to thim, they've the
eshcapes front an' back, spoilin' the look av a fine house: but it's all paid for in the rint.
Glory be to God, the avenue's empty--all but. But it should ha' been the back--it should ha'
been the back!"

Two children were playing in the gutter. But for these the avenue was deserted, and the hush
of a Sabbath afternoon hung over it all. Sister Ursula put the medicine-bottle carefully into
the pocket of her gown. Her face was as white as her coif.

"'Tis not for me," said the caretaker's wife, shaking her head sadly. "I'm so's to be round,
or I'd go wid ye. Those ladders do be runnin' powerful straight up an' down. 'Tis scandalous
to think--but in a fire, an' runnin' wid their night clothes, they'd not stop to think. Go
away, ye two little imps, there! The bottle's in your pocket? You'll not lose good hold av
the irons. What is ut?--oh!"

Sister Ursula retreated into the cellar, dropped on her knees, and was praying--praying as
Lady Godiva prayed before she mounted her palfrey. The caretaker's wife had barely time to
cross herself, and follow her example, when she was on her feet again, and her feet were on
the lowest rungs of the ladder.

"Hould tight," said the caretaker's wife. "Oh, darlint, wait till Mike comes! Come down, now!--the
good angels be wid you. There should have been a way at the back. Walk tinderly an' hould tight.
Heaven above sind there'll be no wind! Oh, why wasn't his ugly rooms at the back, where 'tis
only yards an' bedroom windows!"

The voice grew fainter and stopped. Sister Ursula was at the level of the first floor windows
when the two children caught sight of her, raising together a shrill shout. The devil that
delights in torturing good nuns inspired them next to separate and run the one up and the other
down the avenue, yelling, "O--oh! There's a nun up the fire-escape! A nun on the fire-escape!"
and, since one word at least was familiar, a score of heads came to windows in the avenue,
and were much interested.

In spite of her prayers, Sister Ursula was not happy. The medicine-bottle banged and bumped
in her pocket as she gripped the iron bars hand over hand and toiled aloft. "It is for the
sake of a life," she panted to herself. "It is a good work. He might die if I did not come.
Ah! it is terrible." A flake of rust from the long disused irons had fallen on her nose. The
rungs were chafing her hands, and the minutes were flying. The round, red face of the caretaker's
wife grew smaller and smaller below her, and there was a rumbling of wheels in the avenue.
An idle coachman, drawn by the shouts of the children, had turned the corner to see what was
to be seen. And Sister Ursula climbed in agony of spirit, the heelless black cloth shoes that
nuns wear slipping on the rungs of the ladder, and all earth reeling a hundred thousand feet below.

