I

FROM THE BEGINNING TO 1800

MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON 1917

COPYRIGHT

PREFACE

In beginning what, if it ever gets finished, must in all probability be the last of some already
perhaps too numerous studies of literary history, I should like to point out that the plan
of it is somewhat different from that of most, if not all, of its predecessors. I have usually
gone on the principle (which I still think a sound one) that, in studying the literature of
a country, or in dealing with such general characteristics of parts of literature as prosody,
or such coefficients of all literature as criticism, minorities are, sometimes at least, of
as much importance as majorities, and that to omit them altogether is to risk, or rather to
assure, an imperfect--and dangerously imperfect--product.

In the present instance, however, I am attempting something that I have never, at such length,
attempted before--the history of a Kind, and a Kind which has distinguished itself, as few
others have done, by communicating to readers the pleasure of literature. I might almost say
that it is the history of that pleasure, quite as much as the history of the kind itself, that
I wish to trace. In doing so it is obviously superfluous to include inferiorities and failures,
unless they have some very special lesson or interest, or have been (as in the case of the
minorities on the bridge of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries) for the most part, and
unduly, neglected, though they are important as experiments and links.[1] We really do want
here--what the reprehensible hedonism of Mr. Matthew Arnold, and his submission to what some
one has called "the eternal enemy, Caprice," wanted in all cases--"only the chief and principal
things." I wish to give a full history of how what is commonly called the French Novel came
into being and kept itself in being; but I do not wish to give an exhaustive, though I hope
to give a pretty full, account of its practitioners.

In another point, however, I have kept to my old ways, and that is the way of beginning at
the beginning. I disagree utterly with any Balbus who would build an absolute wall between
romance and novel, or a wall hardly less absolute between verse- and prose-fiction. I think
the French have (what is not common in their language) an advantage over us in possessing the
general term Roman, and I have perhaps taken a certain liberty with my own title in order to
keep the noun-part of it to a single word. I shall extend the meaning of "novel"--that of roman
would need no extension--to include, not only the prose books, old and new, which are more
generally called "romance," but the verse romances of the earlier period.

The subject is one with which I can at least plead almost lifelong familiarity. I became a
subscriber to "Rolandi's," I think, during my holidays as a senior schoolboy, and continued
the subscriptions during my vacations when I was at Oxford. In the very considerable leisure
which I enjoyed during the six years when I was Classical Master at Elizabeth College, Guernsey,
I read more French than any other literature, and more novels than anything else in French.
In the late 'seventies and early 'eighties, as well as more recently, I had to round off and
fill in my knowledge of the older matter, for an elaborate account of French literature in
the Encyclopædia Britannica, for a long series of articles on French novelists in the Fortnightly
Review, and for the Primer and Short History of the subject which I wrote for the Clarendon
Press; while from 1880 to 1894, as a Saturday Reviewer, I received, every month, almost everything
notable (and a great deal hardly worth noting) that had appeared in France.

Since then, the cutting off of this supply, and the extreme and constant urgency of quite different
demands on my time, have made my cultivation of the once familiar field "parc and infrequent."
But I doubt whether any really good judge would say that this was a serious drawback in itself;
and it ceases to be one, even relatively, by the restriction of the subject to the close of
the last century. It will be time to write of the twentieth-century novel when the twentieth
century itself has gone more than a little farther.

For the abundance of translation, in the earlier part especially, I need, I think, make no
apology. I shall hardly, by any one worth hearing, be accused of laziness or scamping in consequence
of it, for translation is much more troublesome, and takes a great deal more time, than comment
or history. The advantage, from all other points of view, should need no exposition: nor, I
think, should that of pretty full story-abstract now and then.

There is one point on which, at the risk of being thought to "talk too much of my matters,"
I should like to say a further word. All my books, before the present volume, have been composed
with the aid of a library, not very large, but constantly growing, and always reinforced with
special reference to the work in hand; while I was able also, on all necessary occasions, to
visit Oxford or London (after I left the latter as a residence), and for twenty years the numerous
public or semi-public libraries of Edinburgh were also open to me. This present History has
been outlined in expectation for a very long time; and has been actually laid down for two
or three years. But I had not been able to put much of it on paper when circumstances, while
they gave me greater, indeed almost entire, leisure for writing, obliged me to part with my
own library (save a few books with a reserve pretium affectionis on them), and, though they
brought me nearer both to Oxford and to London, made it less easy for me to visit either. The
London Library, that Providence of unbooked authors, came indeed to my aid, for without it
I should have had to leave the book alone altogether; and I have been "munitioned" sometimes,
by kindness or good luck, in other ways. But I have had to rely much more on memory, and of
course in some cases on previous writing of my own, than ever before, though, except in one
special case,[2] there will be found, I think, not a single page of mere "rehashing." I mention
this without the slightest desire to beg off, in one sense, from any omissions or mistakes
which may be found here, but merely to assure my readers that such mistakes and omissions are
not due to idle and careless bookmaking. That "books have fates" is an accepted proposition.
In respect to one of these--possession of materials and authorities--mine have been exceptionally
fortunate hitherto, and if they had any merit it was no doubt largely due to this. I have,
in the present, endeavoured to make the best of what was not quite such good fortune. And if
anybody still says, "Why did you not wait till you could supply deficiencies?" I can only reply
that, after seventy, [Greek: nyx gar erchetai] is a more insistent warrant, and warning, than
ever.[3]

                          GEORGE SAINTSBURY.

    [Edinburgh, 1914-15; Southampton, 1915-16]
    1 ROYAL CRESCENT, BATH, May 31, 1917.

ADDENDA AND CORRIGENDA

P. 3, note.--This note was originally left vague, because, in the first place, to perform public
and personal fantasias with one's spear on the shield of a champion, with whom one does not
intend to fight out the quarrel, seems to me bad chivalry, and secondly, because those readers
who were likely to be interested could hardly mistake the reference. The regretted death, a
short time after the page was sent to press, of Mr. W. J. Courthope may give occasion to an
acknowledgment, coupled with a sincere ave atque vale. Mr. Courthope was never an intimate
friend of mine, and our agreement was greater in political than in literary matters: but for
more than thirty years we were on the best terms of acquaintance, and I had a thorough respect
for his accomplishments.

P. 20, l. 5.--Fuerres de Gadres. I wonder how many people thought of this when Englishmen "forayed
Gaza" just before Easter, 1917?

P. 46, mid-page.--It so happened that, some time after having passed this sheet for press,
I was re-reading Dante (as is my custom every year or two), and came upon that other passage
(in the Paradiso, and therefore not known to more than a few of the thousands who know the
Francesca one) in which the poet refers to the explanation between Lancelot and the Queen.
It had escaped my memory (though I think I may say honestly that I knew it well enough) when
I passed the sheet: but it seemed to me that perhaps some readers, who do not care much for
"parallel passages" in the pedantic sense, might, like myself, feel pleasure in having the
great things of literature, in different places, brought together. Moreover, the Paradiso allusion
seems to have puzzled or misled most of the commentators, including the late Mr. A. J. Butler,
who, by his translation and edition of the Purgatorio in 1880, was my Virgil to lead me through
the Commedia, after I had sinfully neglected it for exactly half a life-time. He did not know,
and might easily not have known, the Vulgate Lancelot: but some of those whom he cites, and
who evidently did know it, do not seem to have recognised the full significance of the passage
in Dante. The text will give the original: the Paradiso (xvi. 13-15) reference tells how Beatrice
(after Cacciaguida's biographical and historical recital, and when Dante, in a confessed outburst
of family pride, addresses his ancestor with the stately Voi), "smiling, appeared like her
who coughed at the first fault which is written of Guinevere." This, of course (see text once
more), is the Lady of Malahault, though Dante does not name her as he does Prince Galahault
in the other locus. The older commentators (who, as has been said, did know the original) do
not seem to have seen in the reference much more than that both ladies noticed, and perhaps
approved, what was happening. But I think there is more in it. The Lady of Malahault (see note
in text) had previously been aware that Lancelot was deeply in love, though he would not tell
her with whom. Her cough therefore meant: "Ah! I have found you out." Now Beatrice, well as
she knew Dante's propensity to love, knew as well that pride was even more of a besetting weakness
of his. This was quite a harmless instance of it: but still it was an instance--and the "smile"
which is not recorded of the Arthurian lady meant: "Ah! I have caught you out." Even if this
be excessive "reading into" the texts, the juxtaposition of them may not be unsatisfactory
to some who are not least worth satisfying. (Since writing this, I have been reminded that
Mr. Paget Toynbee did make the "juxtaposition" in his Clarendon Press Specimens of Old French
(October, 1892), printing there the "Lady of Malahault" passage from MSS. copied by Professor
Ker. But there can be no harm in duplicating it.)

P. 121, ll. 8-10. Perhaps instead of, or at least beside, Archdeacon Grantly I should have
mentioned a more real dignitary (as some count reality) of the Church, Charles Kingsley. The
Archdeacon and the Canon would have fought on many ecclesiastical and some political grounds,
but they might have got on as being, in Dr. Grantly's own words at a memorable moment "both
gentlemen." At any rate, Kingsley was soaked in Rabelais, and one of the real curiosities of
literature is the way in which the strength of Gargantua and Pantagruel helped to beget the
sweetness of The Water Babies.

Chap. viii. pp. 163-175.--After I had "made my" own "siege" of the Astrée on the basis of notes
recording a study of it at the B.M., Dr. Hagbert Wright of the London Library was good enough
to let me know that his many years' quest of the book had been at last successful, and to give
me the first reading of it. (It was Southey's copy, with his own unmistakable autograph and
an inserted note, while it also contained a cover of a letter addressed to him, which had evidently
been used as a book-mark.) Although not more than four months had passed since the previous
reading, I found it quite as appetising as (in the text itself) I had expressed my conviction
that it would be: and things not noticed before cropped up most agreeably. There is no space
to notice all or many of them here. But one of the earliest, due to Hylas, cannot be omitted,
for it is the completest and most sententious vindication of polyerotism ever phrased: "Ce
n'était pas que je n'aimasse les autres: mais j'avais encore, outre leur place, celle-ci vide
dans mon âme." And the soul of Hylas, like Nature herself, abhorred a vacuum! (This approximation
is not intended as "new and original": but it was some time after making it that I recovered,
in Notre Dame de Paris, a forgotten anticipation of it by Victor Hugo.)

Another early point of interest was that the frontispiece portrait of Astrée (the edition,
see Bibliography, appears to be the latest of the original and ungarbled ones, imprimée à Rouen,
et se vend à Paris (1647, 10 vols.)) is evidently a portrait, though not an identical one,
of the same face given in the Abbé Reure's engraving of Diane de Châteaumorand herself. The
nose, especially, is hardly mistakable, but the eyes have rather less expression, and the mouth
less character, though the whole face (naturally) looks younger.

On the other hand, the portrait here--not of Céladon, but admittedly of Honoré d'Urfé himself--is
much less flattering than that in the Abbé's book.

Things specially noted in the second reading would (it has been said) overflow all bounds here
possible: but we may perhaps find room for three lines from about the best of the very numerous
but not very poetical verses, at the beginning of the sixth (i.e. the middle of the original
third) volume:

    Le prix d'Amour c'est l'Amour même.
    Change d'humeur qui s'y plaira,
    Jamais Hylas ne changera,

the two last being the continuous refrain of a "villanelle" in which this bad man boasts his
constancy in inconstancy.

P. 265, note 1.--It ought perhaps to be mentioned that Mlle. de Lussan's paternity is also,
and somewhat more probably, attributed to Eugene's elder brother, Thomas of Savoy, Comte de
Soissons. The lady is said to have been born in 1682, when Eugene (b. 1663) was barely nineteen;
but of course this is not decisive. His brother Thomas Amédée (b. 1656) was twenty-six at the
time. The attribution above mentioned gave no second name, and did not specify the relationship
to Eugene: so I had some difficulty in identifying the person, as there were, in the century,
three Princes Thomas of Savoy, and I had few books of reference. But my old friend and constant
helper in matters historical, the Rev. William Hunt, D.Litt., cleared the point up for me.
Of the other two--Thomas François, who was by marriage Comte de Soissons and was grandfather
of Eugene and Thomas Amédée, died in the same year in which Thomas Amédée was born, therefore
twenty-six before Mlle. de Lussan's birth: while the third, Thomas Joseph, Eugene's cousin,
was not born till 1796, fourteen years after the lady. The matter is, of course, of no literary
importance: but as I had passed the sheet for press before noticing the diversity of statements,
I thought it better to settle it.

P. 267. Pajon. I ought not to have forgotten to mention that he bears the medal of Sir Walter
Scott (Introduction to The Abbot) as "a pleasing writer of French Fairy Tales."

Page 453.--Choderlos de Laclos. Some surprise has been expressed by a friend of great competence
at my leaving out Les Liaisons Dangereuses. I am, of course, aware that "persons of distinction"
have taken an interest in it; and I understand that, not many years ago, the unfortunate author
of the beautiful lines To Cynara wasted his time and talent on translating the thing. To make
sure that my former rejection was not unjustified, I have accordingly read it with care since
the greater part of this book was passed for press; and it shall have a judgment here, if not
in the text. I am unable to find any redeeming point in it, except that some ingenuity is shown
in bringing about the dénouement by a rupture between the villain-hero and the villainess-heroine,
M. le Vicomte de Valmont and Mme. la Marquise de Merteuil. Even this, though fairly craftsmanlike
in treatment, is banal enough in idea--that idea being merely that jealousy, in both sexes,
survives love, shame, and everything else, even community in scoundrelism--in other words,
that the green-eyed monster (like "Vernon" and unlike "Ver") semper viret. But it is scarcely
worth one's while to read six hundred pages of very small print in order to learn this. Of
amusement, as apart from this very elementary instruction, I at least can find nothing. The
pair above mentioned, on whom practically hangs the whole appeal, are merely disgusting. Their
very voluptuousness is accidental: the sum and substance, the property and business of their
lives and natures, are compact of mischief, malice, treachery, and the desire of "getting the
better of somebody." Nor has this diabolism anything grand or impressive about it--anything
that "intends greatly" and glows, as has been said, with a black splendour, in Marlowesque
or Websterian fashion. Nor, again, is it a "Fleur du Mal" of the Baudelairian kind, but only
an ugly as well as noxious weed. It is prosaic and suburban. There is neither tragedy nor comedy,
neither passion nor humour, nor even wit, except a little horse-play. Congreve and Crébillon
are as far off as Marlowe and Webster; in fact, the descent from Crébillon's M. de Clérval
to Laclos' M. de Valmont is almost inexpressible. And, once more, there is nothing to console
one but the dull and obvious moral that to adopt love-making as an "occupation" (vide text,
p. 367) is only too likely to result in the [Greek: technê] becoming, in vulgar hands, very
[Greek: banausos] indeed.

The victims and comparses of the story do nothing to atone for the principals. The lacrimose
stoop-to-folly-and-wring-his-bosom Mme. de Tourvel is merely a bore; the ingénue Cécile de
Volanges is, as Mme. de Merteuil says, a petite imbécile throughout, and becomes no better
than she should be with the facility of a predestined strumpet; her lover, Valmont's rival,
and Mme. de Merteuil's plaything, M. le Chevalier Danceny, is not so very much better than
he should be, and nearly as much an imbecile in the masculine way as Cécile in the feminine;
her respectable mother and Valmont's respectable aunt are not merely as blind as owls are,
but as stupid as owls are not. Finally, the book, which in many particular points, as well
as in the general letter-scheme, follows Richardson closely (adding clumsy notes to explain
the letters, apologise for their style, etc.), exhibits most of the faults of its original
with hardly any of that original's merits. Valmont, for instance, is that intolerable creature,
a pattern Bad Man--a Grandison-Lovelace--a prig of vice. Indeed, I cannot see how any interest
can be taken in the book, except that derived from its background of tacenda; and though no
one, I think, who has read the present volume will accuse me of squeamishness, I can find in
it no interest at all. The final situations referred to above, if artistically led up to and
crisply told in a story of twenty to fifty pages, might have some; but ditchwatered out as
they are, I have no use for them. The letter-form is particularly unfortunate, because, at
least as used, it excludes the ironic presentation which permits one almost to fall in love
with Becky Sharp, and quite to enjoy Jonathan Wild. Of course, if anybody says (and apologists
do say that Laclos was, as a man, proper in morals and mild in manners) that to hold up the
wicked to mere detestation is a worthy work, I am not disposed to argue the point. Only, for
myself, I prefer to take moral diatribes from the clergy and aesthetic delectation from the
artist. The avenging duel between Lovelace and Colonel Morden is finely done; that between
Valmont and Danceny is an obvious copy of it, and not finely done at all. Some, again, of the
riskiest passages in subject are made simply dull by a Richardsonian particularity which has
no seasoning either of humour or of excitement. Now, a Richardson de mauvais lieu is more than
a bore--it is a nuisance, not pure and simple, but impure and complex.

I have in old days given to a few novels (though, of course, only when they richly deserved
it) what is called a "slating"--an éreintement--as I once had the honour of translating that
word in conversation, at the request of a distinguished English novelist, for the benefit of
a distinguished French one. Perhaps an example of the process is not utterly out of place in
a History of the novel itself. But I have long given up reviewing fiction, and I do not remember
any book of which I shall have to speak as I have just spoken. So hic caestus, etc.--though
I am not such a coxcomb as to include victor in the quotation.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] For the opposite or corresponding reasons, it has seemed unnecessary to dwell on such persons,
a hundred and more years later, as Voisenon and La Morlière, who are merely "corrupt followers"
of Crébillon fils; or, between the two groups, on the numerous failures of the quasi-historical
kind which derived partly from Mlle. de Scudéry and partly from Mme. de la Fayette.

[2] That of the minor "Sensibility" novelists in the last chapter.

[3] I have once more to thank Professors Ker, Elton, and Gregory Smith for their kindness in
reading my proofs and making most valuable suggestions; as well as Professor Fitzmaurice-Kelly
and the Rev. William Hunt for information on particular points.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I
                                                             PAGE

INTRODUCTORY                                                    1

The early history of prose fiction--The late classical stage--A nexus of Greek and French romance?--the
facts about the matter--The power and influence of the "Saint's Life"--The Legend of St. Eulalia--The
St. Alexis.

CHAPTER II

THE MATTERS OF FRANCE, ROME, AND BRITAIN                        9

The Chanson de Geste--The proportions of history and fiction in them--The part played by language,
prosody, and manners--Some drawbacks--But a fair balance of actual story merit--Some instances
of this--The classical borrowings: Troy and Alexander--Troilus--Alexander--The Arthurian Legend--Chrestien
de Troyes and the theories about him--His unquestioned work--Comparison of the Chevalier à
la Charette and the prose Lancelot--The constitution of the Arthuriad--Its approximation to
the novel proper--Especially in the characters and relations of Lancelot and Guinevere--Lancelot--Guinevere--Some
minor points--Illustrative extracts translated from the "Vulgate": the youth of Lancelot--The
first meeting of Lancelot and Guinevere--The scene of the kiss--Some further remarks on the
novel-character of the story--And the personages--Books.

CHAPTER III

ROMANS D'AVENTURES                                             55

Variety of the present group--Different views held of it--Partenopeus of Blois selected for
analysis and translation.

CHAPTER IV

THE BEGINNINGS OF PROSE FICTION                                73

Prose novelettes of the thirteenth century: Aucassin et Nicolette not quite typical--L'Empereur
Constant more so--Le Roi Flore et la Belle Jehane--La Comtesse de Ponthieu--Those of the fourteenth:
Asseneth--Troilus--Foulques Fitzwarin--Something on these--And on the short story generally.

CHAPTER V

ALLEGORY, FABLIAU, AND PROSE STORY OF COMMON LIFE              89

The connection with prose fiction of allegory--And of the fabliaux--The rise of the nouvelle
itself--Les Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles--Analysis of "La Demoiselle Cavalière"--The interest of
namea personages--Petit Jehan de Saintré--Jehan de Paris.

CHAPTER VI

RABELAIS                                                      105

The anonymity, or at least impersonality, of authorship up to this point--Rabelais unquestionably
the first very great known writer--But the first great novelist?--Some objections considered--And
dismissed as affecting the general attraction of the book--Which lies, largely if not wholly,
in its story-interest--Contrast of the Moyen de Parvenir--A general theme possible--A reference,
to be taken up later, to the last Book--Running survey of the whole--Gargantua--The birth and
education--The war--The Counsel to Picrochole--The peace and the Abbey of Thelema--Pantagruel
I. The contrasted youth--Panurge--Short view of the sequels in Book II.--Pantagruel II. (Book
III.) The marriage of Panurge and the consultations on it--Pantagruel III. (Book IV.) The first
part of the voyage--Pantagruel IV. (Book V.) The second part of the voyage: the "Isle Sonnante"--"La
Quinte"--The conclusion and The Bottle.

CHAPTER VII

THE SUCCESSORS OF RABELAIS AND THE INFLUENCE OF THE "AMADIS" ROMANCES                     
134

Subsidiary importance of Brantôme and other character-mongers--The Heptameron--Note on Montaigne--Character
and "problems"--Parlamente on human and divine love--Despériers--Contes et Joyeux Devis--Other
tale-collections--The "provincial" character of these--The Amadis romances--Their characteristics--Extravagance
in incident, nomenclature, etc.--The "cruel" heroine--Note on Hélisenne de Crenne.

CHAPTER VIII

THE SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY NOVEL--I.                             152

The Pastoral and Heroic Romance, and the Fairy Story.

Immense importance of the seventeenth century in our subject--The divisions of its contribution--Note
on marked influence of Greek Romance--The Pastoral in general--Its beginnings in France--Minor
romances preceding the Astrée--Their general character--Examples of their style--Montreux and
the Bergeries de Juliette--Des Escuteaux and his Amours Diverses--François de Molière: Polyxéne--Du
Périer: Arnoult et Clarimonde--Du Croset: Philocalie--Corbin: Philocaste--Jean de Lannoi and
his Roman Satirique--Béroalde de Verville outside the Moyen de Parvenir--The Astrée: its author--The
book--Its likeness to the Arcadia--Its philosophy and its general temper--Its appearance and
its author's other work--Its character and appeals--Hylas and Stella and their Convention--Narrative
skill frequent--The Fountain of the Truth of Love--Some drawbacks: awkward history--But attractive
on the whole--The general importance and influence--The Grand Cyrus--Its preface to Madame
de Longueville--The "Address to the Reader"--The opening of the "business"--The ups and downs
of the general conduct of the story--Extracts: the introduction of Cyrus to Mandane--His soliloquy
in the pavilion--The Fight of the Four Hundred--The abstract resumed--The oracle to Philidaspes--The
advent of Araminta--Her correspondence with Spithridates--Some interposed comments--Analysis
resumed--The statue in the gallery at Sardis--The judgment of Cyrus in a court of love--Thomyris
on the warpath--General remarks on the book and its class--The other Scudéry romances: Ibrahim--Almahide--Clélie--Perhaps
the liveliest of the set--Rough outline of it--La Calprenède: his comparative cheerfulness--Cléopatre:
the Cypassis and Arminius episode--The book generally--Cassandre--Faramond--Gomberville: La
Caritée--Polexandre--Camus: Palombe, etc.--Hédelin d'Aubignac: Macarise--Gombauld: Endimion--Mme.
de Villedieu--Le Grand Alcandre Frustré--The collected love-stories--Their historic liberties--Carmente,
etc.--Her value on the whole--The fairy tale--Its general characteristics: the happy ending--Perrault
and Mme. d'Aulnoy--Commented examples: Gracieuse et Percinet--L'Adroite Princesse--The danger
of the "moral"--Yet often redeemed--The main Cabinet des Fées: more on Mme. d'Aulnoy--Warning
against disappointment--Mlle. de la Force and others--The large proportion of Eastern Tales--Les
Voyages de Zulma--Fénelon--Caylus--Prince Courtebotte et Princesse Zibeline--Rosanie--Prince
Muguet et Princesse Zaza--Note on Le Diable Amoureux.

CHAPTER IX

THE SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY NOVEL--II.                            274

From "Francion" to "La Princesse de Clèves"--Anthony Hamilton.

The material of the chapter--Sorel and Francion--The Berger Extravagant and Polyandre--Scarron
and the Roman Comique--The opening scene of this--Furetière and the Roman Bourgeois--Nicodème
takes Javotte home from church--Cyrano de Bergerac and his Voyages--Mme. de la Fayette and
La Princesse de Clèves--Its central scene--Hamilton and the Nymph--The opening of Fleur d'Épine--Les
Quatre Facardins.

CHAPTER X

LESAGE, MARIVAUX, PRÉVOST, CRÉBILLON                          325

The subjects of the chapter--Lesage: his Spanish connections--Peculiarity of his work generally--And
its variety--Le Diable Boiteux--Lesage and Boileau--Gil Blas: its peculiar cosmopolitanism--And
its adoption of the homme sensuel moyen fashion--Its inequality, in the Second and Fourth Books
especially--Lesage's quality: not requiring many words, but indisputable--Marivaux: Les Effets
de la Sympathie (?)--His work in general--Le Paysan Parvenu--Marianne: outline of the story--Importance
of Marianne herself--Marivaux and Richardson: "Marivaudage"--Examples: Marianne on the physique
and moral of Prioresses and Nuns--She returns the gift-clothes--Prévost--His minor novels:
the opinions on them of Sainte-Beuve--And of Planche--The books themselves: Histoire d'une
Grecque Moderne--Cléveland--Le Doyen de Killérine--The Mémoires d'un Homme de Qualité--Its
miscellaneous curiosities--Manon Lescaut--Its uniqueness--The character of its heroine--And
that of the hero--The inevitableness of both and the inestimableness of their history--Crébillon
fils--The case against him--For the defendant: the veracity of his artificiality and his consummate
cleverness--The Crébillonesque atmosphere and method--Inequality of his general work; a survey
of it.

CHAPTER XI

THE PHILOSOPHE NOVEL                                        377

The use of the novel for "purpose"; Voltaire--General characteristics of his tales--Candide--Zadig
and its satellites--Micromégas--L'Ingénu--La Princesse de Babylone--Some minors--Voltaire,
the Kehl edition, and Plato--An attempt at different evaluation of himself--Rousseau: the novel
character of the Confessions--The ambiguous position of Émile--La Nouvelle Héloïse--Its numerous
and grave faults--The minor characters--The delinquencies of Saint-Preux--And the less charming
points of Julie; her redemption--And the better side of the book generally--But little probability
of more good work in novel from its author--The different case of Diderot--His gifts and the
waste of them--The various display of them--Le Neveu de Rameau--Jacques le Fataliste--Its "Arcis-Pommeraye"
episode--La Religieuse--Its story--A hardly missed, if missed, masterpiece--The successors--Marmontel--His
"Telemachic" imitations worth little--The best of his Contes Moraux worth a good deal--Alcibiade
ou le Moi--Soliman the Second--The Four Flasks--Heureusement--Le Philosophe Soi-disant--A real
advance in these--Bernardin de Saint-Pierre.

CHAPTER XII

"SENSIBILITY." MINOR AND LATER NOVELISTS. THE FRENCH NOVEL, c. 1800                       
428

"Sensibility"--A glance at Miss Austen--The thing essentially French--Its history--Mme. de
Tencin and Le Comte de Comminge--Mme. Riccoboni and Le Marquis de Cressy--Her other work: Milady
Catesby--Mme. de Beaumont: Lettres du Marquis de Roselle--Mme. de Souza--Xavier de Maistre--His
illustrations of the lighter side of Sensibility--A sign of decadence--Benjamin Constant: Adolphe--Mme.
de Duras's "postscript"--Sensibilité and engouement--Some final words on the matter--Its importance
here--Restif de la Bretonne--Pigault-Lebrun: the difference of his positive and relative importance--His
life and the reasons for giving it--His general characteristics--L'Enfant du Carnaval and Les
Barons de Felsheim--Angélique et Jeanneton--Mon Oncle Thomas--Jérôme--The redeeming points
of these--Others: Adélaïde de Méran and Tableaux de Société--L'Officieux--Further examples--Last
words on him--The French novel in 1800.

CHRONOLOGICAL CONSPECTUS OF THE PRINCIPAL WORKS OF FRENCH FICTION NOTICED IN THIS VOLUME  
475

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTES                                         479

INDEX                                                         483

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

[Sidenote: The early history of prose fiction.]

Although I have already, in two places,[4] given a somewhat precise account of the manner in
which fiction in the modern sense of the term, and especially prose fiction, came to occupy
a province in modern literature which had been so scantily and infrequently cultivated in ancient,
it would hardly be proper to enter upon the present subject with a mere reference to these
other treatments. It is matter of practically no controversy (or at least of none in which
it is worth while to take a part) that the history of prose fiction, before the Christian era,
is very nearly a blank, and that, in the fortunately still fairly abundant remains of poetic
fiction, "the story is the least part" (as Dryden says in another sense), or at least the telling
of the story, in our modern sense, is so. Homer (in the Odyssey at any rate), Herodotus (in
what was certainly not intentional fiction at all), and Xenophon[5] are about the only Greek
writers who can tell a story, for the magnificent narrative of Thucydides in such cases as
those of the Plague and the Syracusan cataclysm shows all the "headstrong" ethos of the author
in its positive refusal to assume a "story" character. In Latin there is nothing before Livy
and Ovid;[6] of whom the one falls into the same category with Herodotus and Xenophon, and
the other, admirable raconteur as he is, thinks first of his poetry. Scattered tales we have:
"mimes" and other things there are some, and may have been more. But on the whole the schedule
is not filled: there are no entries for the competition.

[Sidenote: The late classical stage.]

In later classical literature, both Greek and Latin, the state of things alters considerably,
though even then it cannot be said that fiction proper--that is to say, either prose or verse
in which the accomplishment of the form is distinctly subordinate to the interesting treatment
of the subject--constitutes a very large department, or even any regular department at all.
If Lucius of Patrae was a real person, and much before Lucian, he may dispute with Petronius--that
first-century Maupassant or Meredith, or both combined--the actual foundation of the novel
as we have it; but Lucian himself and Apuleius (strangely enough handling the same subject
in the two languages) give securer and more solid starting-places. Yet nothing follows Apuleius;
though some time after Lucian the Greek romance, of which we have still a fair number of examples
(spread, however, over a still larger number of centuries), establishes itself in a fashion.
It does one thing, indeed, which in a way refounds or even founds the whole conception--it
establishes the heroine. There are certainly feminine persons, sometimes not disagreeable,
who play conspicuous and by no means mute or unpractical parts in both Greek and Latin versions
of the Ass-Legend; but one can hardly call them heroines. There need be no chicane about the
application of that title to Chloe or to Chariclea, to Leucippe or to her very remarkable rival,
to Anthia or to Hysmine. Without the heroine you can hardly have romance: the novel without
her (though her individuality may be put in commission) is an absolute impossibility.

[Sidenote: A nexus of Greek and French romance? The facts about the matter.]

The connection between these curious performances (with the much larger number of things like
them which we know to have existed) on the one side, and the Western mediaeval romance on the
other, has been at various times matter of considerable controversy; but it need not trouble
us much here. The Greek romance was to have very great influence on the French novel later:
on the earlier composition, generally called by the same name as itself, it would seem[7] to
have had next to none. Until we come to Floire et Blanchefleur and perhaps Parthenopex, things
of a comparatively late stage, obviously post-Crusade, and so necessarily exposed to, and pretty
clearly patient of, Greek-Eastern influence, there is nothing in Old French which shows even
the same kinship to the Greek stories as the Old English Apollonius of Tyre, which was probably
or rather certainly in the original Greek itself. The sources of French "romance"--I must take
leave to request a "truce of God" as to the application of that term and of "epic" for present
purposes--appear to have been two--the Saint's Life and the patriotic or family saga, the latter
in the first place indelibly affected by the Mahometan incursions of the eighth, ninth, and
tenth centuries. The story-telling instinct--kindled by, or at first devoted to, these subjects--subsequently
fastened on numerous others. In fact almost all was fish that came to the magic net of Romance;
and though two great subjects of ours, the "Matter of Britain" (the Arthurian Legend) and the
"Matter of Rome" (classical story generally, including the Tale of Troy), came traditionally
to rank themselves with the "Matter of France" and with the great range of hagiology which
it might have been dangerous to proclaim a fourth "matter" (even if anybody had been likely
to take the view that it was so), these classifications are, like most of their kind, more
specious than satisfactory.

[Sidenote: The power and influence of the "Saint's Life."]

Any person--though indeed it is to be feared that the number of such persons is not very large--who
has some knowledge of hagiology and some of literature will admit at once that the popular
notion of a Saint's Life being necessarily a dull and "goody" thing is one of the foolishest
pieces of presumptuous ignorance, and one of the most ignorant pieces of foolish presumption.
Not only have modern novelists sometimes been better informed and better inspired--as in the
case of more than one version of the Legends of St. Mary of Egypt, of St. Julian, of Saint
Christopher, and others--but there remain scores if not hundreds of beautiful things that have
been wholly or all but wholly neglected. It is impossible to imagine a better romance, either
in verse or in prose, than might have been made by William Morris if he had kept his earliest
loves and faiths and had taken the variorum Legend of St. Mary Magdalene, as we have it in
divers forms from quite early French and English to the fifteenth-century English Miracle Play
on the subject. That of St. Eustace ("Sir Isumbras"), though old letters and modern art have
made something of it, has also never been fully developed in the directions which it opens
up; and one could name many others. But it has to be admitted that the French (whether, as
some would say, naturally enough or not) never gave the Saint's Life pure and simple the development
which it received in English. It started them--I at least believe this--in the story-telling
way; but cross-roads, to them more attractive, soon presented themselves.

[Sidenote: The Legend of St. Eulalia.]

Still, it started them. I hope it is neither intolerably fanciful nor the mere device of a
compiler anxious to make his arrows of all wood, to suggest that there is something noteworthy
in the nature of the very first piece of actual French which we possess. The Legend of St.
Eulalia can be tried pretty high; for we have[8] the third hymn of the Peristephanon of Prudentius
to compare it with. The metre of this

    Germine nobilis Eulalia

is not one of the best, and contrasts ill with the stately decasyllables--perhaps the very
earliest examples of that mighty metre that we have--which the infant daughter-tongue somehow
devised for itself some centuries later. But Prudentius is almost always a poet, if a poet
of the decadence, and he had as instruments a language and a prosody which were like a match
rifle to a bow and arrows--not of yew and not cloth-yard shafts--when contrasted with the dialect
and speech-craft of the unknown tenth-century Frenchman. Yet from some points of view, and
especially from ours, the Anonymus of the Dark Ages wins. Prudentius spins out the story into
two hundred and fifteen lines, with endless rhetorical and poetical amplification. He wants
to say that Eulalia was twelve years old; but he actually informs us that

    Curriculis tribus atque novem,
    Tres hyemes quater attigerat,

and the whole history of the martyrdom is attitudinised and bedizened in the same fashion.

Now listen to the noble simplicity of the first French poet and tale-teller:

     A good maiden was Eulalia: fair had she the body, but the
     soul fairer. The enemies of God would fain conquer
     her--would fain make her serve the fiend. She listened not
     to the evil counsellors, that she should deny God, who
     abideth in Heaven aloft--neither for gold, nor for silver,
     nor for garments; for the royal threatenings, nor for
     entreaties. Nothing could ever bend the damsel so that she
     should not love the service of God. And for that reason she
     was brought before Maximian, who was the King in those days
     over the pagans. And he exhorted her--whereof she took no
     care--that she should flee from the name of Christian. But
     she assembled all her strength that she might rather sustain
     the torments than lose her virginity: for which reason she
     died in great honour. They cast her in the fire when it
     burnt fiercely: but she had no fault in her, and so it
     pained her [or she burnt[9]] not.

     To this would not trust the pagan king: but with a sword he
     bade them take off her head. The damsel did not gainsay this
     thing: she would fain let go this worldly life if Christ
     gave command. And in shape of a dove she flew to heaven. Let
     us all pray that she may deign to intercede for us; that
     Christ may upon us have mercy after death, and of His
     clemency may allow us to come to Him.

[Sidenote: The St. Alexis.]

Of course this is story-telling in its simplest form and on its smallest scale: but the essentials
are there, and the non-essentials can be easily supplied--as indeed they are to some extent
in the Life of St. Leger and to a greater in the Life of St. Alexis, which almost follow the
Sainte-Eulalie in the making of French literature. The St. Alexis indeed provides something
like a complete scheme of romance interest, and should be, though not translated (for it runs
to between 600 and 700 lines), in some degree analysed and discussed. It had, of course, a
Latin original, and was rehandled more than once or twice. But we have the (apparently) first
French form, probably of the eleventh century. The theme is one of the commonest and one of
the least sympathetic in hagiology. Alexis is forced by his father, a rich Roman "count," to
marry; and after (not before) the marriage, though of course before its consummation, he deserts
his wife, flies to Syria, and becomes a beggar at Edessa. After a time, long enough to prevent
recognition, he goes back to Rome, and obtains from his own family alms enough to live on,
though these alms are dispensed to him by the servants with every mark of contempt. At last
he dies, and is recognised forthwith as a saint. This hackneyed and somewhat repulsive donnée
(there is nothing repulsive to the present writer, let it be observed, either in Stylites or
in Galahad) the French poet takes and makes a rather surprising best of it. He is not despicable
even as a poet, all things considered; but he is something very different indeed from despicable
as a tale-teller. To begin, or, strictly speaking, to end with (R. L. Stevenson never said
a wiser thing than that the end must be the necessary result of, and as it were foretold in,
the beginning), he has lessened if not wholly destroyed the jar of the situation by (most unusually
and considering the mad chastity-worship of the time rather audaciously) associating the deserted
wife directly with the Saint's "gustation of God" above:

    Without doubt is St. Alexis in Heaven,
    With him has he God in the company of the Angels,
    With him the maiden to whom he made himself strange,
    Now he has her close to him--together are their souls,
    I know not how to tell you how great their joy is.[10]

But there are earlier touches of that life which makes all literature, and tale-telling most
of all. An opening on Degeneracy is scarcely one of these, for this was, of course, a commonplace
millenniums earlier, and it had the recent belief about the approaching end of the world at
the actual A.D. 1000 to prompt it. The maiden is "bought" for Alexis from her father or mother.
Instead of the not unusual and rather distasteful sermons on virginity which later versions
have, the future saint has at least the grace to accompany the return of the ring[11] with
only a few words of renunciation of his spouse to Christ, and of declaration that in this world
"love is imperfect, life frail, and joy mutable." A far more vivid touch is given by the mother
who, when search for the fugitive has proved futile, ruins the nuptial chamber, destroys its
decorations, and hangs it with rags and sackcloth,[12] and who, when the final discovery is
made, reproaches the dead saint in a fashion which is not easy to reply to: "My son, why hadst
thou no pity of us? Why hast thou not spoken to me once?" The bride has neither forgotten nor
resented: she only weeps her deserter's former beauty, and swears to have no other spouse but
God. The poem ends--or all but ends--in a hurly-burly of popular enthusiasm, which will hardly
resign its new saint to Pope or Emperor, till at last, after the usual miracles of healing,
the body is allowed to rest, splendidly entombed, in the Church of St. Boniface.

Now the man who could thus, and by many other touches not mentioned, run blood into the veins
of mummies,[13] could, with larger range of subject and wider choice of treatment, have done
no small things in fiction.

But enough talk of might-have-beens: let us come to the things that were done.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] The article "Romance" in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, 11th ed.; and the volume on The
English Novel in Messrs. Dent's series "Channels of English Literature," London, 1913.

[5] Plato (or Socrates?) does it only on a small scale and partially, though there are the
makings of a great novelist in the Dialogues. Apollonius Rhodius is the next verse-tale teller
to Homer among the prae-Christian Greeks.

[6] Virgil, in the only parts of the Aeneid that make a good story, is following either Homer
or Apollonius.

[7] To me at least the seeming seems to approach demonstration; and I can only speak as I find,
with all due apologies to those who find differently.

[8] There is, of course, a Latin "sequence" on the Saint which is nearer to the French poem;
but that does not affect our present point.

[9] The literal "cooked," with no burlesque intention, was used of punitory burning quite early;
but it is not certain that the transferred sense of cuire, "to pain," is not nearly or quite
as old.

[10] Not the least interesting part of this is that it is almost sufficient by itself to establish
the connection between Saint's Life and Romance.

[11] By a very curious touch he gives her also "les renges de s'espide," i.e. either the other
ring by which the sword is attached to the sword-belt, or the belt itself. The meaning is,
of course, that with her he renounces knighthood and all worldly rank.

[12] She addresses the room itself, dramatically enough: "Chamber! never more shalt thou bear
ornament: never shall any joy in thee be enjoyed."

[13] Let me repeat that I mean no despite to the "Communion of Saints" or to their records--much
the reverse. But the hand of any purpose, Religious, Scientific, Political, what not, is apt
to mummify story.

CHAPTER II

THE MATTERS OF FRANCE, ROME, AND BRITAIN

It has been said already that the Saint's Life, as it seems most probable to the present writer,
started the romance in France; but of course we must allow considerable reinforcement of one
kind or another from local, traditional, and literary sources. The time-honoured distribution,
also given already, of the "matter" of this romance does not concern us so much here as it
would in a history of French literature, but it concerns us. We shall indeed probably find
that the home-grown or home-fed Chanson de Geste did least for the novel in the wide sense--that
the "Matter of Rome" chiefly gave it variety, change of atmosphere to some extent, and an invaluable
connection with older literatures, but that the central division or "Matter of Britain," with
the immense fringes of miscellaneous romans d'aventures--which are sometimes more or less directly
connected with it, and are always moulded more or less on its patterns--gave most of all.

[Sidenote: The Chanson de Geste.]

Of these, however, what has been called the family or patriotic part was undoubtedly the earliest
and for a long time the most influential. There is, fortunately, not the least need here to
fight out the old battle of the cantilenae or supposed ballad-originals. I see no reason to
alter the doubt with which I have always regarded their existence; but it really does not matter,
to us, whether they existed or not, especially since we have not got them now. What we have
got is a vast mass of narrative poetry, which latterly took actual prose form, and which--as
early certainly as the eleventh century and perhaps earlier--turns the French faculty for narrative
(whether it was actually or entirely fictitious narrative or not does not again matter) into
channels of a very promising kind.

The novel-reader who has his wits and his memory about him may perhaps say, "Promising perhaps;
but paying?" The answer must be that the promise may have taken some time to be fully liquidated,
but that the immediate or short-dated payment was great. The fault of the Chansons de Geste--a
fault which in some degree is to be found in French literature as a whole, and to a greater
extent in all mediaeval literature--is that the class and the type are rather too prominent.
The central conception of Charlemagne as a generally dignified but too frequently irascible
and rather petulant monarch, surrounded by valiant and in a way faithful but exceedingly touchy
or ticklish paladins, is no doubt true enough to the early stages of feudalism--in fact, to
adapt the tag, there is too much human nature in it for it to be false. But it communicates
a certain sameness to the chansons which stick closest to the model.

[Sidenote: The proportions of history and fiction in them.]

The exact relation of the Chansons de Geste to the subsequent history of French fiction is
thus an extremely important one, and one that requires, not only a good deal of reading on
which to base any opinion that shall not be worthless, but a considerable exercise of critical
discretion in order to form that opinion competently. The present writer can at least plead
no small acquaintance with the subject, and a full if possibly over-generous acknowledgment
of his dealings with it on the part of some French authorities, living and dead, of the highest
competence. But the attractions of the vast and strangely long ignored body of chanson literature
are curiously various in kind, and they cannot be indiscriminately drawn upon as evidence of
an early mastery of tale-telling proper on the part of the French as a nation.

There is indeed one solid fact, the importance of which can hardly be exaggerated in some ways,
though it may be wrongly estimated in others. Here is not merely the largest part proportionately,
but a very large bulk positively, of the very earliest part of a literature, devoted to a kind
of narrative which, though some of it may be historic originally, is pretty certainly worked
up into its concrete and extant state by fiction. The comparison with the two literatures which
on the whole bear such comparison with French best--English and Greek--is here very striking.
People say that there "must have been" many Beowulfs: it can hardly be said that we have so
much as a positive assertion of the existence of even one other, though we have allusions and
glances which have been amplified in the usual fashion. We have positive and not reasonably
doubtful assertion of the existence of a very large body of more or less early Greek epic;
but we have nothing existing except the Iliad and the Odyssey.

[Sidenote: The part played by language, prosody, and manners.]

On this fact, be it repeated, if we observe the canons of sound criticism in the process, too
much stress in general cannot be laid. There must have been some more than ordinary nisus towards
story-telling in a people and a language which produced, and for three or four centuries cherished,
something like a hundred legends, sometimes of great length, on the single general[14] subject
of the exploits, sufferings, and what not of the great half-historical, half-legendary emperor
à la barbe florie, of his son, and of the more legendary than historical peers, rebels, subjects,
descendants, and "those about both" generally. And though the assertion requires a little more
justification and allowance, there must have been some extraordinary gifts for more or less
fictitious composition when such a vast body of spirited fictitious, or even half-fictitious,
narrative is turned out.

But in this justification as to the last part of the contention a good deal of care has to
be observed. It will not necessarily follow, because the metal is attractive, that its attractiveness
is always of the kind purely belonging to fiction; and, as a matter of fact, a large part of
it is not. Much is due to the singular sonority and splendour of the language, which is much
more like Spanish than modern French, and which only a few poets of exceptional power have
been able to reproduce in modern French itself. Much more is imparted by the equally peculiar
character of the metre--the long tirades or laisses, assonanced or mono-rhymed paragraphs in
decasyllables or alexandrines, which, to those who have once caught their harmony, have an
indescribable and unparalleled charm. Yet further, these attractions come from the strange
unfamiliar world of life and character described and displayed; from the brilliant stock epithets
and phrases that stud the style as if with a stiff but glittering embroidery; and from other
sources too many to mention here.

[Sidenote: Some drawbacks.]

Yet one must draw attention to the fact that all the named sources of the attraction, and may
perhaps ask the reader to take it on trust that most of the unnamed, are not essentially or
exclusively attractions of fiction--that they are attractions of poetry. And, on the other
hand, while the weaving of so vast a web of actual fiction remains "to credit," there are not
a few things to be set on the other side of the account. The sameness of the chanson story,
the almost invariable recurrence of the stock motives and frameworks--of rebellion, treason,
paynim invasion, petulance of a King's son, somewhat too "coming" affection of a King's daughter,
tyrannical and Lear-like impotentia of the King himself, etc.--may be exaggerated, but cannot
be denied. In the greatest of all by general acknowledgment, the far-famed Roland, the economy
of pure story interest is pushed to a point which in a less unsophisticated age--say the twentieth
instead of the twelfth or eleventh century--might be put down to deliberate theory or crotchet.
The very incidents, stirring as they are, are put as it were in skeleton argument or summary
rather than amplified into full story-flesh and blood; we see such heroine as there is only
to see her die; even the great moment of the horn is given as if it had been "censored" by
somebody. People, I believe, have called this brevity Homeric; but that is not how I read Homer.

In fact, so jealous are some of those who well and wisely love the chansons, that I have known
objections taken to ranking as pure examples, despite their undoubted age and merit, such pieces
as Amis et Amiles (for passion and pathos and that just averted tragedy which is so difficult
to manage, one of the finest of all) and the Voyage à Constantinoble, the single early specimen
of mainly or purely comic donnée.[15] This seems to me, I confess, mere prudery or else mistaken
logic, starting from the quite unjustifiable proposition that nothing that is not found in
the Chanson de Roland ought to be found in any chanson. But we may admit that the "bones"--the
simplest terms of the chanson-formula--hardly include varied interests, though they allow such
interests to be clothed upon and added to them.

[Sidenote: But a fair balance of actual story merit.]

Despite this admission, however, and despite the further one that it is to the "romances" proper--Arthurian,
classical, and adventurous--rather than to the chansons that one must look for the first satisfactory
examples of such clothing and addition, it is not to be denied that the chansons themselves
provide a great deal of it--whether because of adulteration with strictly "romance" matter
is a question for debate in another place and not here. But it would be a singularly ungrateful
memory which should, in this place, leave the reader with the idea that the Chanson de Geste
as such is merely monotonous and dull. The intensity of the appeal of Roland is no doubt helped
by that approach to bareness--even by a certain tautology--which has been mentioned. Aliscans,
which few could reject as faithless to the type, contains, even without the family of dependent
poems which cluster round it, a vivid picture of the valiant insubordinate warrior in William
of Orange, with touches of comedy or at least horse-play.

[Sidenote: Some instances of this.]

The striking, and to all but unusually dull or hopelessly "modern" imaginations as unusually
beautiful, centre-point of Amis et Amiles,--where one of the heroes, who has sworn a "white"
perjury to save his friend and is punished for it by the terror, "white" in the other sense,
of leprosy, is abandoned by his wife, and only healed by the blood of the friend's children,
is the crowning instance of another set of appeals. The catholicity of a man's literary taste,
and his more special capacity of appreciating things mediaeval, may perhaps be better estimated
by his opinion of Amis et Amiles than by any other touchstone; for it has more appeals than
this almost tragic one--a much greater development of the love-motive than either Roland or
Aliscans, and a more varied interest generally. Its continuation, Jourdains de Blaivies, takes
the hero abroad, as do many other chansons, especially two of the most famous, Huon de Bordeaux
and Ogier de Danemarche. These two are also good--perhaps the best--examples of a process very
much practised in the Middle Ages and leaving its mark on future fiction--that of expansion
and continuation. In the case of Ogier, indeed, this process was carried so far that enquiring
students have been known to be sadly disappointed in the almost total disconnection between
William Morris's beautiful section of The Earthly Paradise and the original French, as edited
by Barrois in the first attempt to collect the chansons seventy or eighty years ago. The great
"Orange" subcycle, of which Aliscans is the most famous, extends in many directions, but is
apt in all its branches to cling more to "war and politics." William of Orange is in this respect
partly matched by Garin of Lorraine. No chanson retained its popularity, in every sense of
that word, better than the Quatre Fils d'Aymon--the history of Renaut de Montauban and his
brothers and cousin, the famous enchanter-knight Maugis. As a "boy's book" there is perhaps
none better, and the present writer remembers an extensive and apparently modern English translation
which was a favourite "sixty years since." Berte aux grands Piés, the earliest form of a well-known
legend, has the extrinsic charm of being mentioned by Villon; while there is no more agreeable
love-story, on a small scale and in a simple tone, than that of Doon and Nicolette[16] in Doon
de Mayence. And not to make a mere catalogue which, if supported by full abstracts of all the
pieces, would be inordinately bulky and would otherwise convey little idea to readers, it may
be said that the general chanson practice of grouping together or branching out the poems (whichever
metaphor be preferred) after the fashion of a family-tree involves of itself no inconsiderable
call on the tale-telling faculties. That the writers pay little or no attention to chronological
and other possibilities is hardly much to say against them; if this be an unforgivable sin
it is not clear how either Dickens or Thackeray is to escape damnation, with Sir Walter to
greet them in their uncomfortable sojourn.

But it is undoubtedly true that the almost exclusive concentration of the attention on war
prevents the attainment of much detailed novel-interest. Love affairs--some glanced at above--do
indeed make, in some of the chansons, a fuller appearance than the flashlight view of lost
tragedy which we have in Roland. But until the reflex influence of the Arthurian romance begins
to work, they are, though not always disagreeable or ungraceful, of a very simple and primitive
kind, as indeed are the delineations of manners generally.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: The classical borrowings--Troy and Alexander.]

The "matter of Rome the Great," as the original text has it (though, in fact, Rome proper has
little to do with the most important examples of the class), adds very importantly to the development
of romance, and through that, of novel. Its bulk is considerable, and its examples have interest
of various kinds. But for us this interest is concentrated upon, if not exclusively confined
to, the two great groups (undertaken by, and illustrated in, the three great literary languages
of the earlier Middle Ages, and, as usual, most remarkably and originally in French) of the
Siege of Troy and the life of Alexander. It should be almost enough to say of the former that
it introduced,[17] with practically nothing but the faintest suggestion from really classical
sources, the great romance-novel of the loves of Troilus and Cressida to the world's literature;
and of the second, that it gives us the first instance of the infusion of Oriental mystery
and marvel that we can discern in the literature of the West. For details about the books which
contain these things, their authors and their probable sources and development, the reader
must, as in other cases, look elsewhere.[18] It is only our business here to say something
about the general nature of the things themselves and about the additions that they made to
the capital, and in some cases almost to the "plant," of fiction.

[Sidenote: Troilus.]

That the Troilus and Cressida romance, with its large provision and its more large suggestion
of the accomplished love-story, evolved from older tale-tellers by Boccaccio and Chaucer and
Henryson and Shakespeare, is not a pure creation of the earlier Middle Ages, few people who
patiently attend to evidence can now believe. Even in the wretched summaries of the Tale of
Troy by Dictys and Dares (which again no such person as the one just described can put very
early), the real novel-interest--even the most slender romance-interest--is hardly present
at all. Benoît de Sainte-More in the twelfth century may not have actually invented this; it
is one of the principles of this book, as of all that its writer has written, that the quest
of the inventor of a story is itself the vainest of inventions. But it is certain that nobody
hitherto has been able to "get behind him," and it is still more certain that he has given
enough base for the greater men who followed to build upon. If he cannot be credited with the
position of the pseudo-Callisthenes (see below) in reference to the Alexander story, he may
fairly share that of his contemporary Geoffrey of Monmouth, if not even of Nennius, as regards
that of Arthur. The situation, or rather the group of situations, is of the most promising
and suggestive kind, negatively and positively. In the first place the hero and heroine are
persons about whom the great old poets of the subject have said little or nothing; and what
an immense advantage this is all students of the historical novel of the last hundred years
know. In the second, the way in which they are put in action (or ready for action) is equally
satisfactory, or let us say stimulating. In a great war a prince loves a noble lady, who by
birth and connections belongs to the enemy, and after vicissitudes, which can be elaborated
according to the taste and powers of the romancer, gains her love. But the course of this love
is interrupted by her surrender or exchange to the enemy themselves; her beauty attracts, nay
has already attracted, the fancy of one of the enemy's leaders, and being not merely a coquette
but a light-o'-love[19] she admits his addresses. Her punishment follows or does not follow,
is accomplished during the life of her true lover or not, according again to the taste and
fancy of the person who handles the story. But the scheme, even at its simplest, is novel-soil:
marked out, matured, manured, and ready for cultivation, and the crops which can be grown on
it depend entirely upon the skill of the cultivator.

For all this some would, as has been said above, see sufficient suggestion in the Greek Romance.
I have myself known the examples of that Romance for a very long time and have always had a
high opinion of it; but except what has been already noticed--the prominence of the heroine--I
can see little or nothing that the Mediaeval romance could possibly owe to it, and as a matter
of fact hardly anything else in common between the two. In the last, and to some extent the
most remarkable (though very far from the best if not nearly the worst), of the Greek Romances,
the Hysminias and Hysmine of Eustathius, we have indeed got to a point in advance, taking that
word in a peculiar sense, even of Troilus at its most accomplished, that is to say, the Marinism
or Marivaudage, if not even the Meredithese, of language and sentiment. But Hysminias and Hysmine
is probably not older than Benoît de Sainte-More's story, and as has just been said, Renaissance,
nay post-Renaissance, not Mediaeval in character. We must, of course, abstain from "reading
back" Chaucer or even Boccaccio into Benoît or into his probable plagiarist Guido de Columnis;
but there is nothing uncritical or wrong in "reading forward" from these to the later writers.
The hedge-rose is there, which will develop into, and serve as a support for, the hybrid perpetual--a
term which could itself be developed in application, after the fashion of a mediaeval moralitas.
And when we have actually come to Pandaro and Deiphobus, to the "verse of society," as it may
be called in a new sense, of the happier part of Chaucer and to the intense tragedy of the
later part of Henryson, then we are in the workshop, if not in the actual show-room, of the
completed novel. It would be easy, as it was not in the case of the chansons, to illustrate
directly by a translation, either here from Benoît or later from the shortened prose version
of the fourteenth century, which we also possess; but it is not perhaps necessary, and would
require much space.

[Sidenote: Alexander.]

The influence of the Alexander story, though scarcely less, is of a widely different kind.
In Troilus, as has been said, the Middle Age is working on scarcely more than the barest hints
of antiquity, which it amplifies and supplements out of its own head and its own heart--a head
which can dream dream-webs of subtlest texture unknown to the ancients, and a heart which can
throb and bleed in a fashion hardly shown by any ancient except Sappho. With the Alexander
group we find it much more passively recipient, though here also exercising its talent for
varying and amplification. The controversies over the pseudo-Callisthenes, "Julius Valerius,"
the Historia de Praeliis, etc., are once more not for us; but results of them, which have almost
or quite emerged from the state of controversy, are. It is certain that the appearance, in
the classical languages, of the wilder legends about Alexander was as early at least as the
third century after Christ--that is to say, long before even "Dark" let alone "Middle" Ages
were thought of--and perhaps earlier. There seems to be very little doubt that these legends
were of Egyptian or Asiatic origin, and so what we vaguely call "Oriental." They long anticipated
the importing afresh of such influences by the Crusades, and they must, with all except Christians
and Jews (that is to say, with the majority), have actually forestalled the Oriental influence
of the Scriptures. Furthermore, when Mediaeval France began to create a new body of European
literature, the Crusades had taken place; the appetite for things Oriental and perhaps we should
say the half-imaginative power of appreciating them, had become active; and a considerable
amount of literature in the vernacular had already been composed. It was not wonderful, therefore,
that the trouvères should fly upon this spoil. By not the least notable of the curiosities
of literature in its own class, they picked out a historical but not very important episode--the
siege of Gaza and Alexander's disgraceful cruelty to its brave defender--and made of this a
regular Chanson de Geste (in all but "Family" connection), the Fuerres de Gadres, a poem of
several thousand lines. But the most generally popular (though sometimes squabbled over) parts
of the story, were the supposed perversion of Olympias, not by the God Ammon but by the magician-king
Nectanabus personating the God and becoming thereby father of the Hero; the Indian and some
other real campaigns (the actual conquest of Persia was very slightly treated), and, far above
all, the pure Oriental wonder-tales of the descent into the sea, the march to the Fountain
of Youth, and other myths of the kind.

Few things can be more different than the story-means used in these two legends; yet it must
be personal taste rather than strict critical evaluation which pronounces one more important
to the development of the novel than the other. There is a little love interest in the Alexander
poems--the heroine of this part being Queen Candace--but it is slight, episodic, and rudimentary
beside the complex and all-absorbing passions which, when genius took the matter in hand, were
wrought out of the truth of Troilus and the faithlessness of Cressid. The joys of fighting
or roaming, of adventure and quest, and above all those of marvel, are the attractions which
the Alexander legend offers, and who shall say that they are insufficient? At any rate no one
can deny that they have been made the seasoning, if not the stuff and substance, of an enormous
slice of the romance interest, and of a very large part of that of the novel.

[Sidenote: The Arthurian Legend.]

It is scarcely necessary to speak of other classical romances, and it is of course very desirable
to keep in mind that the Alexander story, in no form in which we have it, attempts any strictly
novel interest; while though that interest is rife in some forms of "Troilus," those forms
are not exactly of the period, and are in no case of the language, with which we are dealing.
It was an Italian, an Englishman, and a Scot who each in his own speech--one in the admirable
vulgar tongue, of which at that time and as a finished thing, Italian was alone in Europe as
possessor; the others in the very best of Middle English, and, as some think, almost the best
of Middle Scots verse--displayed the full possibilities of Benoît's story. But the third "matter,"
the matter of Britain or (in words better understanded of most people) the Arthurian Legend,
after starting in Latin, was, as far as language went, for some time almost wholly French,
though it is exceedingly possible that at least one, if not more, of its main authors was no
Frenchman. And in this "matter" the exhibition of the powers of fiction--prose as well as verse--was
carried to a point almost out of sight of that reached by the Chansons, and very far ahead
of any contemporary treatment even of the Troilus story.

[Sidenote: Chrestien de Troyes and the theories about him.]

Before, however, dealing with this great Arthurian story as a stage in the history of the Novel-Romance
in and by itself, we must come to a figure which, though we have very little substantial knowledge
of it, there is some reason for admitting as one of the first named and "coted" figures in
French literature, at least as regards fiction in verse. It is well known that the action of
modern criticism is in some respects strikingly like that of the sea in one of the most famous
and vivid passages[20] of Spenser's unequalled scene-painting in words with musical accompaniment
of them. It delights in nothing so much as in stripping one part of the shore of its belongings,
and hurrying them off to heap upon another part. Chrestien de Troyes is one of the lucky personages
who have benefited, not least and most recently, by this fancy. It is true that the actual
works attributed to him have remained the same--his part of the shore has not been actually
extended like part of that of the Humber. But it has had new riches, honours, and decorations
heaped upon it till it has become, in the actual Spenserian language of another but somewhat
similar passage (111. iv. 20), a "rich strond" indeed. Until a comparatively recent period,
the opinion entertained of Chrestien, by most if not all competent students of him, was pretty
uniform, and, though quite favourable, not extraordinarily high. He was recognised as a past-master
of the verse roman d'aventures in octosyllabic couplet, who probably took his heterogeneous
materials wherever he found them; "did not invent much" (as Thackeray says of Smollett), but
treated whatever he did treat in a singularly light and pleasant manner, not indeed free from
the somewhat undistinguished fluency to which this "light and lewed" couplet, as Chaucer calls
it, is liable, and showing no strong grasp either of character or of plot, but on the whole
a very agreeable writer, and a quite capital example of the better class of trouvère, far above
the improvisatore on the one hand and the dull compiler on the other; but below, if not quite
so far below, the definitely poetic poet.

To an opinion something like this the present writer, who formed it long ago, not at second
hand but from independent study of originals, and who has kept up and extended his acquaintance
with Chrestien, still adheres.

Of late, however, as above suggested, "Chrestiens" have gone up in the market to a surprising
extent. Some twenty years ago the late M. Gaston Paris[21] announced and, with all his distinguished
ability and his great knowledge elaborately supported, his conclusions, that the great French
prose Arthurian romances (which had hitherto been considered by the best authorities, including
his own no less admirable father, M. Paulin Paris, slightly anterior to the poet of Troyes,
and in all probability the source of part at least of his work) were posterior and probably
derivative. Now this, of itself, would of course to some extent put up Chrestien's value. But
it, and the necessary corollaries from it, as originality and so forth, by no means exhaust
the additional honours and achievements which have been heaped upon Chrestien by M. Paris and
by others who have followed, more or less accepted, and in some cases bettered his ascriptions.
In the first and principal place, there has been a tendency, almost general, to dethrone Walter
Map from his old position as the real begetter of the completed Arthurian romance, and to substitute
the Troyan. Then, partly in support, but also to some extent, I think, independently of this
immense ennoblement, discoveries have been made of gifts and graces in Chrestien himself, which
had entirely escaped the eyes of so excellent a critic, so erudite a scholar, and so passionate
a lover of Old French literature as the elder M. Paris, and which continue to be invisible
to the far inferior gifts and knowledge, but if I may dare to say so, the equal good will and
the not inconsiderable critical experience, of the present historian.

Now with large parts of this matter we have, fortunately enough, nothing to do, and the actual
authorship of the great Arthurian conception, namely, the interweaving of the Graal story on
the one hand and the loves of Lancelot and Guinevere on the other, with the Geoffrey of Monmouth
matter, concerns us hardly at all. But some have gone even further than has been yet hinted
in the exaltation of Chrestien. They have discovered in him--"him-by-himself-him"--as the author
of his actual extant works and not as putative author of the real Arthuriad, not merely a pattern
example of the court trouvère--as much as this, or nearly as much, has been admitted here--but
almost the inventor of romance and even of something very like novel, a kind of mediaeval Scott-Bulwer-Meredith,
equally great at adventure, fashion, and character-analysis; subject only, and that not much,
to the limitations of the time. In fact, if I do not do some of these panegyrists injustice,
we ought to have a fancy bust of Chrestien, with the titles of his works gracefully inscribed
on the pedestal, as a frontispiece to this book, if not even a full-length statue, robed like
a small St. Ursula, and like her in Memling's presentation at Bruges, sheltering in its ample
folds the child-like figures of future French novelists and romancers, from the author of Aucassin
et Nicolette to M. Anatole France.

Again, some fifty years of more or less critical reading of novels of all ages and more than
one or two languages, combined with nearly forty years reading of Chrestien himself and a passion
for Old French, leave the present writer quite unable to rise to this beatific vision. But
let us, before saying any more what Chrestien could or could not do, see, in the usual cold-blooded
way, what he did.

[Sidenote: His unquestioned work.]

The works attributed to this very differently, though never unfavourably, estimated tale-teller--at
least those which concern us--are Percevale le Gallois, Le Chevalier à[22] la Charette, Le
Chevalier au Lyon, Erec et Enide, Cligès, and a much shorter Guillaume d'Angleterre. This last
has nothing to do with the Conqueror (though the title has naturally deceived some), and is
a semi-mystical romance of the group derived from the above-mentioned legend of St. Eustace,
and represented in English by the beautiful story of Sir Isumbras. It is very doubtfully Chrestien's,
and in any case very unlike his other work; but those who think him the Arthurian magician
might make something of it, as being nearer the tone of the older Graal stories than the rest
of his compositions, even Percevale itself. Of these, all, except the Charette, deal with what
may be called outliers of the Arthurian story. Percevale is the longest, but its immense length
required, by common confession, several continuators;[23] the others have a rather uniform
allowance of some six or seven thousand lines. Cligès is one of the most "outside" of all,
for the hero, though knighted by Arthur, is the disinherited heir of Constantinople, and the
story is that of the recovery of his kingdom. Erec, as the second part of the title will truly
suggest, though the first may disguise it, gives us the story of the first of Tennyson's original
Idylls. The Chevalier au Lyon is a delightful romance of the Gawain group, better represented
by its English adaptation, Ywain, than any other French example. Percevale and the Charette
touch closest on the central Arthurian story, and the latter has been the chief battlefield
as to Chrestien's connection therewith, some even begging the question to the extent of adopting
for it the title Lancelot.

[Sidenote: Comparison of the Chevalier à la Charette and the prose Lancelot.]

The subject is the episode, well known to English readers from Malory, of the abduction of
Guinevere by Meleagraunce, the son of King Bagdemagus; of the inability of all knights but
Lancelot (who has been absent from Court in one of the lovers' quarrels) to rescue her; and
of his undertaking the task, though hampered in various ways, one of the earliest of which
compelled him to ride in a cart--a thing regarded, by one of the odd[24] conventions of chivalry,
as disgraceful to a knight. Meleagraunce, though no coward, is treacherous and "felon," and
all sorts of mishaps befall Lancelot before he is able for the second time to conquer his antagonist,
and finally to take his over and over again forfeited life. But long before this he has arrived
at the castle where Guinevere is imprisoned; and has been enabled to arrange a meeting with
her at night, which is accomplished by wrenching out the bars of her window. The ill chances
and quiproquos which result from his having cut his hands in the proceeding (though the actual
visit is not discovered), and the arts by which Meleagraunce ensnares the destined avenger
for a time, lengthen out the story till, by the final contest, Meleagraunce goes to his own
place and the Queen is restored to hers.

Unfortunately the blots of constant tautology and verbiage, with not infrequent flatness, are
on all this gracious story as told by Chrestien.[25] Among the traps and temptations which
are thrown in Lancelot's way to the Queen is one of a highly "sensational" nature. In the night
Lancelot hears a damsel, who is his hostess, though he has refused her most thorough hospitality,
shrieking for assistance; and on coming to the spot finds her in a situation demanding instant
help, which she begs, if the irreparable is not to happen. But the poet not only gives us a
heavily figured description of the men-at-arms who bar the way to rescue, but puts into the
mouth of the intending rescuer a speech (let us be exact) of twenty-eight lines and a quarter,
during which the just mentioned irreparable, if it had been seriously meant, might have happened
with plenty of time to spare. So, in the crowning scene (excellently told in Malory), where
the lover forces his way through iron bars to his love, reckless of the tell-tale witness of
his bleeding hands, the circumlocutions are plusquam Richardsonian--and do not fall far short
of a serious anticipation of Shakespeare's burlesque in A Midsummer Night's Dream. The mainly
gracious description is spoilt by terrible bathetics from time to time. Guinevere in her white
nightdress and mantle of scarlet and camus[26] on one side of the bars, Lancelot outside, exchanging
sweet salutes, "for much was he fain of her and she of him," are excellent. The next couplet,
or quatrain, almost approaches the best poetry. "Of villainy or annoy make they no parley or
complaint; but draw near each other so much at least that they hold each other hand by hand."
But what follows? That they cannot come together vexes them so immeasurably that--what? They
blame the iron work for it. This certainly shows an acute understanding[27] and a very creditable
sense of the facts of the situation on the part of both lovers; but it might surely have been
taken for granted. Also, it takes Lancelot forty lines to convince his lady that when bars
are in your way there is nothing like pulling them out of it. So in the actual pulling-out
there is the idlest exaggeration and surplusage; the first bar splits one of Lancelot's fingers
to the sinews and cuts off the top joint of the next. The actual embraces are prettily and
gracefully told (though again with otiose observations about silence), and the whole, from
the knight's coming to the window to his leaving it, takes 150 lines. Now hear the prose of
the so-called "Vulgate Lancelot."

     "And he came to the window: and the Queen, who waited for
     him, slept not, but came thither. And the one threw to the
     other their arms, and they felt each other as much as they
     could reach. "Lady," said Lancelot, "if I could enter
     yonder, would it please you?" "Enter," said she, "fair sweet
     friend? How could this happen?" "Lady," said he, "if it
     please you, it could happen lightly." "Certainly," said she,
     "I should wish it willingly above everything." "Then, in
     God's name," said he, "that shall well happen. For the iron
     will never hold." "Wait, then," said she, "till I have gone
     to bed." Then he drew the irons from their sockets so softly
     that no noise was made and no bar broke."

In this simple prose, sensuous and passionate for all its simplicity, is told the rest of the
story. There are eighteen lines of it altogether in Dr. Sommer's reprint, but as these are
long quarto lines, let us multiply them by some three to get the equivalent of the "skipping
octosyllables." There will remain fifty to a hundred and fifty, with, in the prose, some extra
matter not in the verse. But the acme of the contrast is reached in these words of the prose,
which answer to some forty lines of the poet's watering-out. "Great was the joy that they made
each other that night, for long had each suffered for the other. And when the day came, they
parted." Beat that who can!

Many years ago, and not a few before M. Gaston Paris had published his views, I read these
two forms of the story in the valuable joint edition, verse and prose, of M. Jonckbloet, which
some ruffian (may Heaven not assoil him!) has since stolen or hidden from me. And I said then
to myself, "There is no doubt which of these is the original." Thirty years later, with an
unbroken critical experience of imaginative work in prose and verse during the interval, I
read them again in Dr. Forster's edition of the verse and Dr. Sommer's of the prose, and said,
"There is less doubt than ever." That the prose should have been prettified and platitudinised,
decorated and diluted into the verse is a possibility which we know to be not only possible
but likely, from a thousand more unfortunate examples. That the contrary process should have
taken place is practically unexampled and, especially at that time, largely unthinkable. At
any rate, whosoever did it had a much greater genius than Chrestien's.

This is no place to argue out the whole question, but a single particular may be dealt with.
The curiously silly passage about the bars above given is a characteristic example of unlucky
and superfluous amplification of the perfectly natural question and answer of the prose, "May
I come to you?" "Yes, but how?" an example to be paralleled by thousands of others at the time
and by many more later. Taken the other way it would be a miracle. Prose abridgers of poetry
did not go to work like that in the twelfth-thirteenth century--nor, even in the case of Charles
Lamb, have they often done so since.

It is, however, very disagreeable to have to speak disrespectfully of a writer so agreeable
in himself and so really important in our story as Chrestien. His own gifts and performances
are, as it seems to me, clear enough. He took from this or that source--his selection of the
Erec and Percivale matters, if not also that of Yvain, suggests others besides the, by that
time as I think, concentrated Arthurian story--and from the Arthuriad itself the substance
of the Chevalier à la Charette. He varied and dressed them up with pleasant etceteras, and
in especial, sometimes, though not always, embroidered the already introduced love-motive with
courtly fantasies and with a great deal of detail. I should not be at all disposed to object
if somebody says that he, before any one else, set the type of the regular verse Roman d'aventures.
It seems likely, again, from the pieces referred to above, that he may have had originals more
definitely connected with Celtic sources, if not actually Celtic themselves, than those which
have given us the mighty architectonic of the "Vulgate" Arthur. In his own way and place he
is a great and an attractive figure--not least in the history of the novel. But I can see nothing
in him that makes me think him likely, and much that makes me think him utterly unlikely, to
be the author of what I conceive to be the greatest, the most epoch-making, and almost the
originating conception of the novel-romance itself. Who it was that did conceive this great
thing I do not positively know. All external evidence points to Walter Map; no internal evidence,
that I have seen, seems to me really to point away from him. But if any one likes let us leave
him a mere Eidolon, an earlier "Great Unknown." Our business is, once more, with what he, whoever
he was, did.

[Sidenote: The constitution of the Arthuriad.]

The multiplicity of things done, whether by "him" or "them," is astonishing; and it is quite
possible, indeed likely, that they were not all done by the same person. Mediaeval continuators
(as has been seen in the case of Chrestien) worked after and into the work of each other in
a rather uncanny fashion; and the present writer frankly confesses that he no more knows where
Godfrey de Lagny took up the Charette, or the various other sequelists the Percevale, from
Chrestien than he would have known, without confession, the books of the Odyssey done by Mr.
Broome and Mr. Fenton from those done by Mr. Pope. The grand-oeuvre is the combination of Lancelot
as (1) lover of the Queen; (2) descendant of the Graalwards; (3) author, in consequence of
his sin, of the general failure of the Round Table Graal-Quest; (4) father of its one successful
but half-unearthly Seeker; (5) bringer-about (in more ways than one[28]) of the intestine dissension
which facilitates the invasion of Mordred and the foreigners and so the Passing of Arthur,
of his own rejection by the repentant Queen, and of his death. As regards minor details of
plot and incident there have to be added the bringing in of the pre-Round Table part of the
story by Lancelot's descent from King Ban and his connections with King Bors, both Arthur's
old allies, and both, as we may call them, "Graal-heirs"; the further connection with the Merlin
legend by Lancelot's fostering under the Lady of the Lake;[29] the exaltation, inspiring, and,
as it were, unification of the scattered knight-adventures through Lancelot's constant presence
as partaker, rescuer, and avenger;[30] the human interest given to the Graal-Quest (the earlier
histories being strikingly lacking in this) by his failure, and a good many more. But above
all there are the general characters of the knight and the Queen to make flesh and blood of
the whole.

Not merely the exact author or authors, but even the exact source or sources of this complicated,
fateful, and exquisite imagination are, once more, not known. Years ago it was laid down finally
by the most competent of possible authorities (the late Sir John Rhys) that "the love of Lancelot
and Guinevere is unknown to Welsh literature." Originals for the "greatest knight" have been
sought by guesswork, by idle play on words and names, if not also by positive forgery, in that
Breton literature which does not exist. There do exist versions of the story in which Lancelot
plays no very prominent part, and there is even one singular version--certainly late and probably
devised by a proper moral man afraid of scandal--which makes Lancelot outlive the Queen, quite
comfortably continuing his adventurous career (this is perhaps the "furthest" of the Unthinkable
in literature), and (not, it may be owned, quite inconsistently) hints that the connection
was merely Platonic throughout. These things are explicable, but better negligible. For my
own part I have always thought that the loves of Tristram and Iseult (which, as has been said,
were originally un-Arthurian) suggested the main idea to the author of it, being taken together
with Guinevere's falseness with Mordred in the old quasi-chronicle, and perhaps the story of
the abduction by Melvas (Meleagraunce), which seems to be possibly a genuine Welsh legend.
There are in the Tristram-Iseult-Mark trio quite sufficient suggestions of Lancelot-Guinevere-Arthur;
while the far higher plane on which the novice-novelist sets his lovers, and even the very
interesting subsequent exaltation of Tristram and Iseult themselves to familiarity and to some
extent equality with the other pair, has nothing critically difficult in it.

But this idea, great and promising as it was, required further fertilisation, and got it from
another. The Graal story is (once more, according to authority of the greatest competence,
and likely if anything to be biassed the other way) pretty certainly not Welsh in origin, and
there is no reason to think that it originally had anything to do with Arthur. Even after it
obeyed the strange "suck" of legends towards this centre whirlpool, or Loadstone Rock, of romance,
it yielded nothing intimately connected with the Arthurian Legend itself at first, and such
connection as succeeded seems pretty certainly[31] to be that of which Percevale is the hero,
and an outlier, not an integral part. But either the same genius (as one would fain hope) as
that which devised the profane romance of Lancelot and Guinevere, or another, further grafted
or inarched the sacred romance of the Graal and its Quest with the already combined love-and-chivalry
story. Lancelot, the greatest of knights, and of the true blood of the Graal-guardians, ought
to accomplish the mysteries; but he cannot through sin, and that sin is this very love for
Guinevere. The Quest, in which (despite warning and indeed previous experience) he takes part,
not merely gives occasion for adventures, half-mystical, half-chivalrous, which far exceed
in interest the earlier ones, but directly leads to the dispersion and weakening of the Round
Table. And so the whole draws together to an end identical in part with that of the Chronicle
story, but quite infinitely improved upon it.

[Sidenote: Its approximation to the novel proper.]

Now not only is there in this the creation of the novel in posse, of the romance in esse, but
it is brought about in a curiously noteworthy fashion. A hundred years and more later the greatest
known writer of the Middle Ages, and one of the three or four greatest of the world, defined
the subjects of poetry as Love, War, and Religion, or in words which we may not unfairly translate
by these. The earlier master recognised (practically for the first time) that the romance--that
allotropic form (as the chemists might say) of poetry--must deal with the same. Now in these
forms of the Arthurian legend, which are certainly anterior to the latter part of the twelfth
century, there is a great deal of war and a good deal of religion, but these motives are mostly
separated from each other, the earlier forms of the Arthur story having nothing to do with
the Graal, and the earlier forms of the Graal story--so far as we can see--nothing, or extremely
little, to do with Arthur. Nor had Love, in any proper and passionate sense of the word, anything
to do with either. Women and marriage and breaches of marriage appear indeed; but the earlier
Graal stories are dominated by the most ascetic virginity-worship, and the earlier Arthur-stories
show absolutely nothing of the passion which is the subject of the magnificent overture of
Mr. Swinburne's Tristram. Even this story of Tristram himself, afterwards fired and coloured
by passion, seems at first to have shown nothing but the mixture of animalism, cruelty, and
magic which is characteristic of the Celts.[32] Our magician of a very different gramarye,
were he Walter or Chrestien or some third--Norman, Champenois, Breton,[33] or Englishman (Welshman
or Irishman he pretty certainly was not)--had therefore before him, if not exactly dry bones,
yet the half-vivified material of a chronicle of events on the one hand and a mystical dream-sermon
on the other. He, or a French or English Pallas for him, had to "think of another thing."

And so he called in Love to reinforce War and Religion and to do its proper office of uniting,
inspiring, and producing Humanity. He effected, by the union of the three motives, the transformation
of a mere dull record of confused fighting into a brilliant pageant of knightly adventure.
He made the long-winded homilies and genealogies of the earlier Graal-legend at once take colour
from the amorous and war-like adventures, raise these to a higher and more spiritual plane,
and provide the due punishment for the sins of his erring characters. The whole story--at least
all of it that he chose to touch and all that he chose to add--became alive. The bones were
clothed with flesh and blood, the "wastable country verament" (as the dullest of the Graal
chroniclers says in a phrase that applies capitally to his own work) blossomed with flower
and fruit. Wars of Arthur with unwilling subjects or Saxons and Romans; treachery of his wife
and nephew and his own death; miracle-history of the Holy Vessel and pedigree of its custodians;
Round Table; these and many other things had lain as mere scraps and orts, united by no real
plot, yielding no real characters, satisfying no real interest that could not have been equally
satisfied by an actual chronicle or an actual religious-mystical discourse. And then the whole
was suddenly knit into a seamless and shimmering web of romance, from the fancy of Uther for
Igerne to the "departing of them all" in Lyonnesse and at Amesbury and at Joyous Gard. A romance
undoubtedly, but also incidentally providing the first real novel-hero and the first real novel-heroine
in the persons of the lovers who, as in the passage above translated, sometimes "made great
joy of each other for that they had long caused each other much sorrow," and finally expiated
in sorrow what was unlawful in their joy.

Let us pass to these persons themselves.

[Sidenote: Especially in the characters and relations of Lancelot and Guinevere.]

The first point to note about Lancelot is the singular fashion in which he escapes one of the
dangers of the hero. Aristotle had never said that a hero must be faultless; indeed, he had
definitely said exactly the contrary, of at least the tragic hero. But one of the worst of
the many misunderstandings of his dicta brought the wrong notion about, and Virgil--that exquisite
craftsman in verse and phrase, but otherwise, perhaps, not great poet and very dangerous pattern--had
confirmed this notion by his deplorable figurehead. It is also fair to confess that all except
morbid tastes do like to see the hero win. But if he is to be a hero of Rymer, not merely

    Like Paris handsome[34] and like Hector brave,

but as pious as Aeneas; "a rich fellow enough," with blood hopelessly blue and morals spotlessly
copy-bookish--in other words, a Sir Charles Grandison--he will duly meet with the detestation
and "conspuing" of the elect. Almost the only just one of the numerous and generally silly
charges latterly brought against Tennyson's Arthurian handling is that his conception of the
blameless king does a little smack of this false idea, does something grow to it. It is one
of the chief points in which he departed, not merely from the older stories (which he probably
did not know), but from Malory's astonishing redaction of them (which he certainly did).

[Sidenote: Lancelot.]

But Lancelot escapes this worst of fates in the Idylls themselves, and much more does he escape
it in the originals. In the first place, though he invariably (or always till the Graal Quest)
"wins through," he constantly does not do so without intermediate hairbreadth escapes, and
even not a few adventures which are at first not escapes at all. And just as his perpetual
bafflement in the Quest salts and seasons his triumphs in the saddle, so does the ruling passion
of his sin save, from anything approaching mawkishness,[35] his innumerable and yet inoffensive
virtues; his chastity, save in this instance, which chastity itself, by a further stroke of
art, is saved from niaiserie by the plotted adventures with Elaine; his courtesy, his mercifulness,
his wonderfully early notion of a gentleman (v. inf.), his invariable disregard of self, and
yet his equally invariable naturalness. Pious Aeneas had not the least objection to bringing
about the death of Dido, as he might have known he was doing (unless he was as great a fool
as he is a prig); and he is probably never more disgusting or Pecksniffian than when he looks
back on the flames of Dido's pyre and is really afraid that something unpleasant must have
happened, though he can't think what the matter can be. But he, one feels sure, would never
have lifted up his hand against a woman, unless she had richly deserved it on the strictest
patriotic scores, as in the case of Helen, when his mamma fortunately interfered. On the other
hand, Lancelot was "of the Asra who die when they love" and love till they die--nay, who would
die if they did not love. But it is certain (for there is a very nice miniature of it reproduced
from the MS. in M. Paulin Paris's abstract) that, for a moment, he drew his sword on Elaine
to punish the deceit which made him unwittingly false to Guinevere. It is very shocking, no
doubt, but exceedingly natural; and of course he did not kill or even (like Philaster) wound
her, though nobody interfered to prevent him. Many of the incidents which bring out his character
are well known to moderns by poem and picture, though others, as well worth knowing, are not.
But the human contrasts of success and failure, of merit and sin, have never, I think, been
quite brought out, and to bring them out completely here would take too much room. We may perhaps
leave this other--quite other--"First Gentleman in Europe" with the remark that Chrestien de
Troyes gives only one side of him, and therefore does not give him at all. The Lancelot of
board and bower, of travel and tournament, he does very fairly. But of the Lancelot of the
woods and the hermitage, of the dream at the foot of the cross, of the mystic voyage and the
just failing (if failing) effort of Carbonek, he gives, because he knows, nothing.

[Sidenote: Guinevere.]

Completed as he was, no matter for the moment by whom, he is thus the first hero of romance
and nearly the greatest; but his lady is worthy of him, and she is almost more original as
an individual. It is true that she is not the first heroine, as he is, if not altogether, almost
the first hero. Helen was that, though very imperfectly revealed and gingerly handled. Calypso
(hardly Circe) might have been. Medea is perhaps nearer still, especially in Apollonius. But
the Greek romancers were the first who had really busied themselves with the heroine: they
took her up seriously and gave her a considerable position. But they did not succeed in giving
her much character. The naughty not-heroine of Achilles Tatius, though she has less than none
in Mr. Pope's supposed innuendo sense, alone has an approach to some in the other. As for the
accomplished Guinevere's probable contemporary, the Ismene or Hysmine of Eustathius Macrembolites
(v. sup. p. 18), she is a sort of Greek-mediaeval Henrietta Temple, with Mr. Meredith and Mr.
Disraeli by turns holding the pen, though with neither of them supplying the brains. But Guinevere
is a very different person; or rather, she is a person, and the first. To appreciate her she
must be compared with herself in earlier presentations, and then considered fully as she appears
in the Vulgate--for Malory, though he has given much, has not given the whole of her, and Tennyson
has painted only the last panel of the polyptych wholly, and has rather over-coloured that.[36]

In what we may call the earliest representations of her, she has hardly any colour at all.
She is a noble Roman lady, and very beautiful. For a time she is apparently very happy with
her husband, and he with her; and if she seems to make not the slightest scruple about "taking
up with" her nephew, co-regent and fellow rebel, why, noble Roman ladies thought nothing of
divorce and not much of adultery. The only old Welsh story (the famous Melvas one so often
referred to) that we have about her in much detail merely establishes the fact, pleasantly
formulated by M. Paulin Paris, that she was "très sujette à être enlevée," but in itself (unless
we admit the Peacockian triad of the "Three Fatal Slaps of the Isle of Britain" as evidence)
again says nothing about her character. If, as seems probable if not certain, the Launfal legend,
with its libel on her, is of Breton origin, it makes her an ordinary Celtic princess, a spiritual
sister of Iseult when she tried to kill Brengwain, and a cross between Potiphar's wife and
Catherine of Russia, without any of the good nature and "gentlemanliness" of the last named.
The real Guinevere, the Guinevere of the Vulgate and partly of Malory, is freed from the colourlessness
and the discreditable end of Geoffrey's queen, transforms the promiscuous and rather louche
Melvas incident into an important episode of her epic or romantic existence, and gives the
lie, even in her least creditable or least charming moments, to the Launfal libel. As before
in Lancelot's case, details of her presentation had in some cases best be either translated
in full or omitted, but I cannot refuse myself the pleasure of attempting, with however clumsy
a hand, a portrait of our, as I believe, English Helen, who gave in French language to French,
and not only French literature, the pattern of a heroine.

There is not, I think, any ancient authority for the rather commonplace suggestion, unwisely
adopted by Tennyson, that Guinevere fell in love with Lancelot when he was sent as an ambassador
to fetch her; thus merely repeating Iseult and Tristram, and anticipating Suffolk and Margaret.
In fact, according to the best evidence, Lancelot could not have been old enough, if he was
even born. On the contrary, nothing could be better than the presentation of her introduction
to Arthur and the course of the wooing in the Vulgate--the other "blessed original." She first
sees Arthur as a foe from the walls of besieged Carmelide, and admires his valour; she has
further occasion to admire it when, as a friend, he rescues her father, showing himself, as
what he really was in his youth, his own best knight. The pair are genuinely in love with each
other, and the betrothal and parting for fresh fight are the most gracious passages of the
Merlin book, except the better version (v. sup.) of the love of Merlin himself and the afterwards
libelled Viviane. Anyhow, she was married because she fell in love with him, and there is no
evidence to show that she and Arthur lived otherwise than happily together. But, if all tales
were true, she had no reason to regard him as a very faithful husband or a blameless man. She
may not have known (for nobody but Merlin apparently did know) the early and unwitting incest
of the King and his half-sister Margause; but the extreme ease with which he adopted her own
treacherous foster-sister, the "false Guinevere," and his proceedings with the Saxon enchantress
Camilla, were very strong "sets off" to her own conduct. Also she had a most disagreeable[37]
sister-in-law in Morgane-la-Fée. These are not in the least offered as excuses, but merely
as "lights." Indeed Guinevere never seems to have hated or disliked her husband, though he
often gave her cause; and if, until the great repentance, she thought more lightly of "spouse-breach"
than Lancelot did, that is not uncharacteristic of women.[38] In fact, she is a very perfect
(not of course in the moral sense) gentlewoman. She is at once popular with the knights, and
loses that popularity rather by Lancelot's fault than by her own, while Gawain, who remains
faithful to her to the bitter end, or at least till the luckless slaughter of his brethren,
declares at the beginning that she is the fairest and most gracious, and will be the wisest
and best of queens. She shows something very like humour in the famous and fateful remark (uttered,
it would seem, without the slightest ill or double meaning at the time) as to Gawain's estimate
of Lancelot.[39] She seems to have had an agreeable petulance (notice, for instance, the rebuke
of Kay at the opening of the Ywain story and elsewhere), which sometimes, as it naturally would,
rises to passionate injustice, as Lancelot frequently discovered. She is, in fact, always passionate
in one or other sense of that great and terrible and infinite[40] word, but never tragedy-queenish
or vixenish. She falls in love with Lancelot because he falls in love with her, and because
she cannot help it. False as she is to husband and to lover, to her court and her country,[41]
it can hardly be said that any act of hers, except the love itself and its irresistible consequences,
is faulty. She is not capricious, extravagant, or tyrannical; in her very jealousy she is not
cruel or revengeful (the original Iseult would certainly have had Elaine poisoned or poniarded,
for which there was ample opportunity). If she torments her lover, that is because she loves
him. If she is unjust to him, that is because she is a woman. Her last speech to Lancelot after
the catastrophe--Tennyson should have, as has been said, paraphrased this as he paraphrased
the passing of her husband, and from the same texts, and we should then have had another of
the greatest things of English poetry--shows a noble nature with the [Greek: hamartia] present,
but repented in a strange and great mixture of classical and Christian tragedy. There is little
told in a trustworthy fashion about her personal appearance. But if Glastonbury traditions
about her bones be true, she was certainly (again like Helen) "divinely tall." And if the suggestions
of Hawker's "Queen Gwennyvar's Round"[42] in the sea round Tintagel be worked out a little,
it will follow that her eyes were divinely blue.

[Sidenote: Some minor points.]

When such very high praise is given to the position of the (further) accomplished Arthur-story,
it is of course not intended to bestow that praise on any particular MS. or printed version
that exists. It is in the highest degree improbable that, whether the original magician was
Map, or Chrestien, or anybody else (to repeat a useful formula), we possess an exact and exclusive
copy of the form into which he himself threw the story. Independently of the fact that no MS.,
verse or prose, of anything like the complete story seems old enough, independently of the
enormous and almost innumerable separable accretions, the so-called Vulgate cycle of "Graal-Merlin-Arthur-Lancelot-Graal-Quest-Arthur's-Death"
has considerable variants--the most important and remarkable of which by far is the large alteration
or sequel of the "Vulgate" Merlin which Malory preferred. In the "Vulgate" itself, too, there
are things which were certainly written either by the great contriver in nodding moods, or
by somebody else,--in fact no one can hope to understand mediaeval literature who forgets that
no mediaeval writer could ever "let a thing alone": he simply must add or shorten, paraphrase
or alter. I rather doubt whether the Great Unknown himself meant both the amours of Arthur
with Camilla and the complete episode of the false Guinevere to stand side by side. The first
is (as such justifications go) a sufficient justification of Guinevere by itself; and the conduct
of Arthur in the second is such a combination of folly, cruelty, and all sorts of despicable
behaviour that it overdoes the thing. So, too, Lancelot's "abscondences," with or without madness,
are too many and too prolonged.[43] The long and totally uninteresting campaign against Claudas,
during the greater part of which Lancelot (who is most of all concerned) is absent, and in
which he takes no part or interest when present, is another great blot. Some of these things,
but not all, Malory remedied by omission.

To sum up, and even repeat a little, in speaking so highly of this development--French beyond
all doubt as a part of literature, whatever the nationality, domicile, and temper of the person
or persons who brought it about--I do not desire more to emphasise what I believe to be a great
and not too well appreciated truth than to guard against that exaggeration which dogs and discredits
literary criticism. Of course no single redaction of the legend in the late twelfth or earliest
thirteenth century contains the story, the whole story, and nothing but the story as I have
just outlined it. Of course the words used do not apply fully to Malory's English redaction
of three centuries later--work of genius as this appears to me to be. Yet further, I should
be fully disposed to allow that it is only by reading the posse into the esse, under the guidance
of later developments of the novel itself, that the estimate which I have given can be entirely
justified. But this process seems to me to be perfectly legitimate, and to be, in fact, the
only process capable of giving us literary-historical criticism that is worth having. The writer
or writers, known or unknown, whose work we have been discussing, have got the plot, have got
the characters, have got the narrative faculty required for a complete novel-romance. If they
do not quite know what to do with these things it is only because the time is not yet. But
how much they did, and of how much more they foreshadowed the doing, the extracts following
should show better than any "talk about it."

     [Lancelot, still under the tutelage of the Lady of the Lake
     and ignorant of his own parentage, has met his cousins,
     Lionel and Bors, and has been greatly drawn to them.]

     [Sidenote: Illustrative extracts translated from the
     "Vulgate." The youth of Lancelot.]

     Now turns herself the Lady back to the Lake, and takes the
     children with her. And when she had gone[44] a good way, she
     called Lancelot a little way off the road and said to him
     very kindly, "King's son,[45] how wast thou so bold as to
     call Lionel thy cousin? for he is a king's son, and of not
     a little more worth and gentry than men think." "Lady," said
     he, who was right ashamed, "so came the word into my mouth
     by adventure that I never took any heed of it." "Now tell
     me," said she, "by the faith thou owest me, which thinkest
     thou to be the greater gentleman, thyself or him?" "Lady,"
     said he, "you have adjured me strongly, for I owe no one
     such faith as I owe you, my lady and my mother: nor know I
     how much of a gentleman I am by lineage. But, by the faith I
     owe you, I would not myself deign to be abashed at that for
     which I saw him weep.[46] And they have told me that all men
     have sprung from one man and one woman: nor know I for what
     reason one has more gentry than another, unless he win it by
     prowess, even as lands and other honours. But know you for
     very truth that if greatness of heart made a gentleman I
     would think yet to be one of the greatest." "Verily, fair
     son," said the Lady, "it shall appear. And I say to you that
     you lose nothing of being one of the best gentlemen in the
     world, if your heart fail you not." "How, Lady!" said he,
     "say you this truly, as my lady?" And she said, "Yes,
     without fail." "Lady," said he, "blessed be you of God, that
     you said it to me so soon [or as soon as you have said
     it]. For to that will you make me come which I never thought
     to attain. Nor had I so much desire of anything as of
     possessing gentry."

     [The first meeting of Lancelot and Guinevere. The Lady of
     the Lake has prevailed upon the King to dub Lancelot on St.
     John's Day (Midsummer, not Christmas). His protectress
     departing, he is committed to the care of Ywain, and a
     conversation arises about him. The Queen asks to see him.]

     [Sidenote: The first meeting of Lancelot and Guinevere.]

     Then bid he [the King] Monseigneur[47] Ywain that he should
     go and look for Lancelot. "And let him be equipped as
     handsomely as you know is proper: for well know I that he
     has plenty." Then the King himself told the Queen how the
     Lady of the Lake had requested that he would not make
     Lancelot knight save in his own arms and dress. And the
     Queen marvelled much at this, and thought long till she saw
     him. So Messire Ywain went to the Childe [vallet] and had
     him clothed and equipped in the best way he could: and when
     he saw that nothing could be bettered, he led him to Court
     on his own horse, which was right fair. But he brought him
     not quietly. For there was so much people about that the
     whole street was full: and the news was spread through all
     the town that the fair Childe who came yester eve should be
     a knight to-morrow, and was now coming to Court in knightly
     garb. Then sprang to the windows they of the town, both men
     and women. And when they saw him pass they said that never
     had they seen so fair a Childe-knight. So he came to the
     Court and alighted from his horse: and the news of him
     spread through hall and chamber; and knights and dames and
     damsels hurried forth. And even the King and the Queen went
     to the windows. So when the Childe had dismounted, Messire
     Ywain took him by the hand, and led him by it up to the
     Hall.

     The King and the Queen came to meet him: and both took him
     by his two hands and went to seat themselves on a couch:
     while the Childe seated himself before them on the fresh
     green grass with which the Hall was spread. And the King
     gazed on him right willingly: for if he had seemed fair at
     his first coming, it was nothing to the beauty that he now
     had. And the King thought he had mightily grown in stature
     and thews.[48] So the Queen prayed that God might make him a
     man of worth, "for right plenty of beauty has He given him,"
     and she looked at the Childe very sweetly: and so did he at
     her as often as he could covertly direct his eyes towards
     her. Also marvelled he much how such great beauty as he saw
     appear in her could come: for neither that of his lady, the
     Lady of the Lake, nor of any woman that he had ever seen,
     did he prize aught as compared with hers. And no wrong had
     he if he valued no other lady against the Queen: for she was
     the Lady of Ladies and the Fountain of Beauty. But if he had
     known the great worthiness that was in her he would have
     been still more fain to gaze on her. For none, neither poor
     nor rich, was her equal.

     So she asked Monseigneur Ywain what was the Childe's name,
     and he answered that he knew not. "And know you," said she,
     "whose son he is and of what birth?" "Lady," said he, "nay,
     except I know so much as that he is of the land of Gaul. For
     his speech bewrayeth him."[49] Then the Queen took him by
     the hand and asked him of whom he came. And when he felt it
     [the touch] he shuddered as though roused from sleep, and
     thought of her so hard that he knew not what she said to
     him. And she perceived that he was much abashed, and so
     asked him a second time, "Tell me whence you come." So he
     looked at her very sheepishly and said, with a sigh, that he
     knew not. And she asked him what was his name; and he
     answered that he knew not that. So now the Queen saw well
     that he was abashed and overthought.[50] But she dared not
     think that it was for her: and nevertheless she had some
     suspicion of it, and so dropped the talk. But that she might
     not make the disorder of his mind worse, she rose from her
     seat and, in order that no one might think any evil or
     perceive what she suspected, said that the Childe seemed to
     her not very wise, and whether wise or not had been ill
     brought up. "Lady," said Messire Ywain, "between you and me,
     we know nothing about him: and perchance he is forbidden[51]
     to tell his name or who he is." And she said, "It may well
     be so," but she said it so low that the Childe heard her
     not.

     [Here follows (with a very little surplusage removed
     perhaps) the scene which Dante has made world-famous, but
     which Malory (I think for reasons) has "cut." I trust it is
     neither Philistinism nor perversity which makes me think of
     it a little, though only a little, less highly than some
     have done. There is (and after all this makes it all the
     more interesting for us historians) the least little bit of
     anticipation of Marivaudage about it, and less of the
     adorable simplicity such as that (a little subsequent to the
     last extract given) where Lancelot, having forgotten to take
     leave of the Queen on going to his first adventure, and
     having returned to do so, kneels to her, receives her hand
     to raise him from the ground, "and much was his joy to feel
     it bare in his." But the beauty of what follows is
     incontestable, and that Guinevere was "exceeding wise in
     love" is certain.]

     [Sidenote: The scene of the kiss.]

     "Ha!" said she then, "I know who you are--Lancelot of the
     Lake is your name." And he was silent. "They know it at
     court," said she, "this sometime. Messire Gawain was the
     first to bring your name there...." Then she asked him why
     he had allowed the worst man in the world to lead him by
     the bridle. "Lady," said he, "as one who had command neither
     of his heart nor of his body." "Now tell me," said she,
     "were you at last year's assembly?" "Yes, Lady," said he.
     "And what arms did you bear?" "Lady, they were all of
     vermilion." "By my head," said she, "you say true. And why
     did you do such deeds at the meeting the day before
     yesterday?" Then he began to sigh very very deeply. And the
     Queen cut him short as well, knowing how it was with him.

     "Tell me," she said, "plainly, how it is. I will never
     betray you. But I know that you did it for some lady. Now,
     tell me, by the faith you owe me, who she is." "Ah, Lady,"
     said he, "I see well that it behoves me to speak. Lady, it
     is you." "I!" said she. "It was not for me you took the
     spears that my maiden brought you. For I took care to put
     myself out of the commission." "Lady," said he, "I did for
     others what I ought, and for you what I could." "Tell me,
     then, for whom have you done all the things that you have
     done?" "Lady," said he, "for you." "How," said she, "do you
     love me so much?" "So much, Lady, as I love neither myself
     nor any other." "And since when have you loved me thus?"
     "Since the hour when I was called knight and yet was not
     one."[52] "Then, by the faith you owe me, whence came this
     love that you have set upon me?" Now as the Queen said these
     words it happened that the Lady of the Puy of Malahault[53]
     coughed on purpose, and lifted her head, which she had held
     down. And he understood her now, having oft heard her
     before: and looked at her and knew her, and felt in his
     heart such fear and anguish that he could not answer the
     Queen. Then began he to sigh right deeply, and the tears
     fell from his eyes so thick, that the garment he wore was
     wet to the knees. And the more he looked at the Lady of
     Malahault the more ill at ease was his heart. Now the Queen
     noticed this and saw that he looked sadly towards the place
     where her ladies were, and she reasoned with him. "Tell me,"
     she said, "whence comes this love that I am asking you
     about?" and he tried as hard as he could to speak, and said,
     "Lady, from the time I have said." "How?" "Lady, you did it,
     when you made me your friend, if your mouth lied not." "My
     friend?" she said; "and how?" "I came before you when I had
     taken leave of my Lord the King all armed except my head and
     my hands. And then I commended you to God, and said that,
     wherever I was, I was your knight: and you said that you
     would have me to be your knight and your friend. And then I
     said, 'Adieu, Lady,' and you said, 'Adieu, fair sweet
     friend.' And never has that word left my heart, and it is
     that word that has made me a good knight and valiant--if I
     be so: nor ever have I been so ill-bested as not to remember
     that word. That word comforts me in all my annoys. That word
     has kept me from all harm, and freed me from all peril, and
     fills me whenever I hunger. Never have I been so poor but
     that word has made me rich." "By my faith," said the Queen,
     "that word was spoken in a good hour, and God be praised
     when He made me speak it. Still, I did not set it as high as
     you did: and to many a knight have I said it, when I gave no
     more thought to the saying. But your thought was no base
     one, but gentle and debonair; wherefore joy has come to you
     of it, and it has made you a good knight. Yet, nevertheless,
     this way is not that of knights who make great matter to
     many a lady of many a thing which they have little at heart.
     And your seeming shows me that you love one or other of
     these ladies better than you love me. For you wept for fear
     and dared not look straight at them: so that I well see that
     your thought is not so much of me as you pretend. So, by the
     faith you owe the thing you love best in the world, tell me
     which one of the three you love so much?" "Ah! Lady," said
     he, "for the mercy of God, as God shall keep me, never had
     one of them my heart in her keeping." "This will not do,"
     said the Queen, "you cannot dissemble. For many another such
     thing have I seen, and I know that your heart is there as
     surely as your body is here." And this she said that she
     might well see how she might put him ill at ease. For she
     thought surely enough that he meant no love save to her, or
     ill would it have gone on the day of the Black Arms.[54] And
     she took a keen delight in seeing and considering his
     discomfort. But he was in such anguish that he wanted little
     of swooning, save that fear of the ladies before him kept
     him back. And the Queen herself perceived it at the sight of
     his changes of colour, and caught him by the shoulder that
     he might not fall, and called to Galahault. Then the prince
     sprang forward and ran to his friend, and saw that he was
     disturbed thus, and had great pain in his own heart for it,
     and said, "Ah, Lady! tell me, for God's sake, what has
     happened." And the Queen told him the conversation. "Ah,
     Lady!" said Galahault, "mercy, for God's sake, or you may
     lose me him by such wrath, and it would be too great pity."
     "Certes," said she, "that is true. But know you why he has
     done such feats of arms?" "Nay, surely, Lady," said he.
     "Sir," said she, "if what he tells me is true, it was for
     me." "Lady," said he, "as God shall keep me, I can believe
     it. For just as he is more valiant than other men, so is
     his heart truer than all theirs." "Verily," said she, "you
     would say well that he is valiant if you knew what deeds he
     has done since he was made knight," and then she told him
     all the chivalry of Lancelot ... and how he had done it all
     for a single word of hers [Galahault tells her more, and
     begs mercy for L.]. "He could ask me nothing," sighed she,
     "that I could fairly refuse him, but he will ask me nothing
     at all."... "Lady," said Galahault, "certainly he has no
     power to do so. For one loves nothing that one does not
     fear." [And then comes the immortal kiss, asked by the
     Prince, delayed a moment by the Queen's demur as to time and
     place, brought on by the "Galeotto"-speech. "Let us three
     corner close together as if we were talking secrets,"
     vouchsafed by Guinevere in the words, "Why should I make
     me longer prayer for what I wish more than you or he?"
     Lancelot still hangs back, but the Queen "takes him by the
     chin and kisses him before Galahault with a kiss long
     enough" so that the Lady of Malahault knows it.] And then
     said the Queen, who was a right wise and gracious lady,
     "Fair sweet friend, so much have you done that I am yours,
     and right great joy have I thereof. Now see to it that the
     thing be kept secret, as it should be. For I am one of the
     ladies of the world who have the fairest fame, and if my
     praise grew worse through you, then it would be a foul and
     shameful thing."

[Sidenote: Some further remarks on the novel character of the story.]

A little more comment on this cento, and especially on the central passage of it, can hardly
be, and ought certainly not to be, avoided in such a work as this, even if, like most summaries,
it be something of a repetition. It must surely be obvious to any careful reader that here
is something much more than--unless his reading has been as wide elsewhere as it is careful
here--he expected from Romance in the commoner and half-contemptuous acceptation of that word.
Lancelot he may, though he should not, still class as a mere amoureux transi--a nobler and
pluckier Silvius in an earlier As Yon Like It, and with a greater than Phoebe for idol. Malory
ought to be enough to set him right there: he need even not go much beyond Tennyson, who has
comprehended Lancelot pretty correctly, if not indeed pretty adequately. But Malory has left
out a great deal of the information which would have enabled his readers to comprehend Guinevere;
and Tennyson, only presenting her in parts, has allowed those parts, especially the final and
only full presentation, great as it is, to be too much influenced by his certainly unfortunate
other presentation of Arthur as a blameless king.

I do not say that the actual creator of the Vulgate Guinevere, whoever he was, has wrought
her into a novel-character of the first class. It would have been not merely a miracle (for
miracles often happen), but something more, if he had. If you could take Beatrix Esmond at
a better time, Argemone Lavington raised to a higher power, and the spirit of all that is best
and strongest and least purely paradoxical in Meredith's heroines, and work these three graces
into one woman, adding the passion of Tennyson's own Fatima and the queenliness of Helen herself,
it might be something like the achieved Guinevere who is still left to the reader's imagination
to achieve. But the Unknown has given the hints of all this; and curiously enough it is only
of English novel-heroines that I can think in comparison and continuation of her. This book,
if it is ever finished, will show, I hope, some knowledge of French ones: I can remember none
possessing any touch of Guineveresque quality. Dante, if his poetic nature had taken a different
bent, and Shakespeare, if he had only chosen, could have been her portrayers singly; no others
that I can think of, and certainly no Frenchman.

[Sidenote: And the personages.]

But here Guinevere's creator or expounder has done more for her than merely indicate her charm.
Her "fear for name and fame" is not exactly "crescent"--it is there from the first, and seems
to have nothing either cowardly or merely selfish in it, but only that really "last infirmity
of noble minds," the shame of shame even in doing things shameful or shameless. I have seldom
seen justice done to her magnificent fearlessness in all her dangers. Her graciousness as a
Queen has been more generally admitted, but, once again, the composition and complexity of
her fits of jealousy have never, I think, been fully rationalised. Here, once more, we must
take into account that difference of age which is so important. He thinks nothing of it; she
never forgets it. And in almost all the circumstances where this rankling kindles into wrath--whether
with no cause at all, as in most cases, or with cause more apparent than real, as in the Elaine
business--study of particulars will show how easily they might be wrought out into the great
character scenes of which they already contain the suggestion. This Guinevere would never have
"taken up" (to use purposely a vulgar phrase for what would have been a vulgar thing) with
Mordred,[55] either for himself or for the kingdom that he was trying to steal. And I am bound
to say again that much as I have read of purely French romance--that is to say, French not
merely in language but in certain origin--I know nothing and nobody like her in it.

That Guinevere, like Charlotte, was "a married lady," that, unlike Charlotte, she forgot the
fact, and that Lancelot, though somewhat Wertheresque in some of his features, was not quite
so "moral" as that very dull young man, are facts which I wish neither to suppress nor to dwell
upon. We may cry "Agreed" here to the indictment, and all its consequences. They are not the
question.

The question is the suggesting of novel-romance elements which forms the aesthetic solace of
this ethical sin. It should be seen at once that the Guinevere of the Vulgate, and her fault
or fate, provide a character and career of no small complexity. It has been already said that
to represent her as after a fashion intercepted by love for Lancelot on her way to Arthur,
like Iseult of Ireland or Margaret of Anjou, is, so to speak, as unhistorical as it is insufficiently
artistic. We cannot, indeed, borrow Diderot's speech to Rousseau and say, "C'est le pont aux
ânes," but it certainly would not have been the way of the Walter whom I favour, though I think
it might have been the way of the Chrestien that I know. Guinevere, when she meets her lover,
rescuer, and doomsman, is no longer a girl, and Lancelot is almost a boy. It is not, in the
common and cheap misuse of the term, the most "romantic" arrangement, but some not imperfect
in love-lore have held that a woman's love is never so strong as when she is past girlhood
and well approaching age, and that man's is never stronger than when he is just not a boy.
Lancelot himself has loved no woman (except his quasi-mother, the Lady of the Lake), and will
love none after he has fulfilled the Dead Shepherd's "saw of might." She has loved; dispute
this and you not only cancel gracious scenes of the text, but spoil the story; but she has,
though probably she does not yet know it, ceased to love,[56] and not without some reason.
To say no more about Arthur's technical "blamelessness," he has, by the coming of Lancelot,
ceased to be altogether heroic. Though never a mere petulant and ferocious dotard as the Chansons
too often represent Charlemagne, he is very far from being a wise ruler or even baron. He makes
rash promises and vows, accepts charges on very slight evidence, and seems to have his knights
by no means "in hand." So, too, though never a coward or weakling, he seems pretty nearly to
have lost the pluck and prowess which had won Guinevere's love under the walls of Carmelide,
and of which the last display is in the great fight with his sister's lover, Sir Accolon. All
this may not excuse Guinevere's conduct to the moralist; it certainly makes that conduct artistically
probable and legitimate to the critic, as a foundation for novel-character.

Her lover may look less promising, at least at the moment of presentation; and indeed it is
true that while "la donna è immobile," in essentials and possibilities alike, forms of man,
though never losing reality and possibility, pass at times out of possible or at least easy
recognition. Anybody who sees in the Lancelot of the foregoing scene only a hobbledehoy and
milksop who happens to have a big chest, strong arms, and plenty of mere fighting spirit, will
never grasp him. Hardly better off will be he who takes him--as the story does give some handles
for taking him--to be merely one of the too common examples of humanity who sin and repent,
repent and sin, with a sort of Americanesque notion of spending dollars in this world and laying
them up in another. Malory has on the whole done more justice to the possibilities of the Vulgate
Lancelot than he has to Guinevere, and Tennyson has here improved on Malory. He has, indeed,
very nearly "got" Lancelot, but not quite. To get him wholly would have required Tennyson for
form and Browning for analysis of character; while even this mistura mirabilis would have been
improved for the purpose by touches not merely of Morris and Swinburne, but of lesser men like
Kingsley and even George Macdonald. To understand Lancelot you must previously understand,
or by some kind of intuition divine, the mystical element which his descent from the Graal-Wardens
confers; the essential or quintessential chivalric quality which his successive creators agreed
in imparting to him; the all-conquering gift so strangely tempered by an entire freedom from
the boasting and the rudeness of the chanson hero; the actual checks and disasters which his
cross stars bring on him; his utter loyalty in all things save one to the king; and last and
mightiest of all, his unquenchable and unchangeable passion for the Queen.

Hence what they said to him in one of his early adventures, with no great ill following, "Fair
Knight, thou art unhappy," was always true in a higher sense. He may have been Lord of Joyous
Gard, in title and fact; but his own heart was always a Garde Douloureuse--a cor luctificabile--pillowed
on idle triumphs and fearful hopes and poisoned satisfactions, and bafflements where he would
most fain have succeeded. He has almost had to have the first kiss forced on him; he is refused
the last on grounds of which he himself cannot deny the validity. Guinevere is a tragic figure
in the truest and deepest sense of the term, and, as we have tried to show, she is amply complex
in character and temperament. But it is questionable whether Lancelot is not more tragic and
more complex still.

[Sidenote: Books.]

It may perhaps without impropriety be repeated that these are not mere fancies of the writer,
but things reasonably suggested by and solidly based upon "the French books," when these later
are collated and, so to speak, "checked" by Malory and the romances of adventure branching
off from them. But Arthur and Guinevere and Lancelot by no means exhaust the material for advanced
and complicated novel-work--in character as well as incident--provided by the older forms of
the Legend. There is Gawain, who has to be put together from the sort of first draft of Lancelot
which he shows in the earlier versions, and the light-o'-love opposite which he becomes in
the later, a contrast continued in the Amadis and Galaor figures of the Spanish romances and
their descendants. There is the already glanced at group of Arthur's sisters or half-sisters,
left mere sketches and hints, but most interesting. Not to be tedious, we need not dwell on
Palomides, a very promising Lancelot unloved; on Lamoracke, left provokingly obscure, but shadowing
a most important possibility in the unwritten romance of one of those very sisters; Bors, of
whom Tennyson has made something, but not enough, in the later Idylls; and others. But it is
probably unnecessary to carry the discussion of this matter further. It has been discussed
and illustrated at some length, because it shows how early the elements, not merely of romance
but of the novel in the fullest sense, existed in French literature.

     [Here follows the noble passage above referred to between
     Lancelot and King Bagdemagus after the death of
     Meleagraunce, whose cousin Lancelot has just slain in
     single combat for charging him with treason. He has kept his
     helm on, but doffs it at the King's request.]

And when the King saw him he ran to kiss him, and began to make such joy of him as none could
overgo. But Lancelot said, "Ah, Sir! for God's sake, make no joy or feast for me. Certainly
you should make none, for if you knew the evil I have done you, you would hate me above all
men in the world." "Oh! Lancelot," said he, "tell it me not, for I understand[57] too well
what you would say; but I will know[57] nothing of it, because it might be such a thing" as
would part them for ever.

FOOTNOTES:

[14] The subdivision of the gestes does not matter: they were all connected closely or loosely--except
the Crusading section, and even that falls under the Christian v. Saracen grouping if not under
the Carlovingian. The real "outside" members are few, late, and in almost every case unimportant.

[15] There are comic episodes elsewhere; but almost the whole of this poem turns on the gabz
or burlesque boasts of the paladins.--It may be wise here to anticipate an objection which
may be taken to these remarks on the chansons. I have been asked whether I know M. Bédier's
handling of them; and, by an odd coincidence, within a few hours of the question I saw an American
statement that this excellent scholar's researches "have revised our conceptions" of the matter.
No one can exceed me in respect for perhaps the foremost of recent scholars in Old French.
But my "conception" of the chansons was formed long before he wrote, not from that of any of
his predecessors, but from the chansons themselves. It is therefore not subject to "revisal"
except from my own re-reading, and such re-reading has only confirmed it.

[16] It is not of course intended to be preferred to the far more widely known tale in which
the heroine bears the same name, and which will be mentioned below. But if it is less beautiful
such beauty as it has is free from the slightest morbidezza.

[17] And to this introduction our dealings with it here may be confined. The accounts of the
siege itself are of much less interest, especially in connection with our special subject.

[18] A sort of companion handbook to the first part of this volume will be found in the present
writer's sketch of twelfth and thirteenth century European literature, under the title of The
Flourishing of Romance and the Rise of Allegory, in Messrs. Blackwood's Periods of European
Literature (Edinburgh and London, 1897), and another in his Short History of French Literature
(Oxford, 7th ed. at press).

[19] It is scarcely rash to say that Cressid is the first representative of this dread and
delightful entity, and the ancestress of all its embodiments since in fiction, as Cleopatra
seems to have been in history. No doubt "it" was of the beginning, but it lacked its vates.
Helen was different.

[20] Faerie Queene, v. iv. 1-20.

[21] I hope I may be allowed to emphasise the disclaimer, which I have already made more than
once elsewhere, of the very slightest disrespect to this admirable scholar. The presumption
and folly of such disrespect would be only inferior to its ingratitude, for the indulgence
with which M. Paris consistently treated my own somewhat rash adventures in Old French was
extraordinary. But as one's word is one's word so one's opinion is one's opinion.

[22] Sometimes de, but à seems more analogical.

[23] Chrestien was rather like Chaucer in being apt not to finish. Even the Charette owes its
completion (in an extent not exactly determinable) to a certain Godfrey de Lagny (Laigny, etc.).

[24] Of course it is easy enough to assign explanations of it, from the vehicle of criminals
to the scaffold downwards; but it remains a convention--very much of the same kind as that
which ordains (or used to ordain) that a gentleman may not carry a parcel done up in newspaper,
though no other form of wrapping really stains his honour.

[25] Neither he nor Malory gives one of the most gracious parts of it--the interview between
Lancelot and King Bagdemagus, v. inf. p. 54.

[26] Material (chamois skin)? or garment? Not common in O.F., I think, for camisia; but Spenser
(Faerie Queene, II. iii. xxvi.) has (as Prof. Gregory Smith reminds me) "a silken camus lilly
whight."

[27] As does Pyramus's--or Bottom's--objection to the wall.

[28] This part of the matter has received too little attention in modern studies of the subject:
partly because it was clumsily handled by some of the probably innumerable and certainly undiscoverable
meddlers with the Vulgate. The unpopularity of Lancelot and his kin is not due merely to his
invincibility and their not always discreet partisanship. The older "Queen's knights" must
have naturally felt her devotion to him; his "undependableness"--in consequence not merely
of his fits of madness but of his chivalrously permissible but very inconvenient habit of disguising
himself and taking the other side--must have annoyed the whole Table. Yet these very things,
properly managed, help to create and complicate the "novel" character. For one of the most
commonly and not the least justly charged faults of the average romance is its deficiency in
combined plot and character-interest--the presence in it, at most, of a not too well-jointed
series of episodes, possibly leading to a death or a marriage, but of little more than chronicle
type. This fault has been exaggerated, but it exists. Now it will be one main purpose of the
pages which follow to show that there is, in the completed Arthuriad, something quite different
from and far beyond this--something perhaps imperfectly realised by any one writer, and overlaid
and disarranged by the interpolations or misinterpretations of others, but still a "mind" at
work that keeps the "mass" alive, and may, or rather surely will, quicken it yet further and
into higher forms hereafter. (Those who know will not, I hope, be insulted if I mention for
the benefit of those who do not, that the term "Vulgate" is applied to those forms of the parts
of the story which, with slighter or more important variations, are common to many MSS. The
term itself is most specially applied to the Lancelot which, in consequence of this popularity
throughout the later Middle Ages, actually got itself printed early in the French Renaissance.
The whole has been (or is being) at last most fortunately reprinted by Dr. Sommer. See Bibliography.)

[29] This is another point which, not, I suppose, having been clearly and completely evolved
by the first handler, got messed and muddled by successive copyists and continuators. In what
seems to be the oldest, and is certainly the most consistent and satisfactory, story there
is practically nothing evil about Viviane--Nimiane--Nimue, who is also indisputably identical
with the foster-mother of Lancelot, the occasional Egeria (always for good) of Arthur himself,
and the benefactress (this is probably a later addition though in the right key) of Sir Pelleas.
For anybody who possesses the Power of the Sieve she remains as Milton saw her, and not as
Tennyson mis-saw part of her. The bewitching of Merlin (who, let it be remembered, was an ambiguous
person in several ways, and whose magic, if never exactly black, was sometimes a rather greyish
or magpied white) was not an unmixed loss to the world; she seems to have really loved him,
and to have faithfully kept her word by being with him often. He "could not get out" certainly,
but are there many more desirable things in the outside world than lying with your head in
the lap of the Lady of the Lake while she caresses and talks to you? "J'en connais des plus
malheureux" as the French poet observed of some one in less delectable case. The author of
the Suite de Merlin seems to have been her first maligner. Tennyson, seduced by contrast, followed
and exaggerated the worst view. But I am not sure that the most "irreligious" thing (as Coleridge
would have said) was not the transformation of her into a mere married lady (with a château
in Brittany, and an ordinary knight for her husband) which astounds us in one of the dullest
parts of the Vulgate about Lancelot--the wars with Claudas.

[30] I have always thought that Spenser (whose dealings with Arthuriana are very curious, and
have never, I think, been fully studied) took this function of Lancelot to suggest the presentation
of his Arthur. But Lancelot has no--at least no continuous--fairy aid; he is not invariably
victorious, and he is thoroughly human. Spenser's Prince began the "blamelessness" which grew
more trying still in Tennyson's King. (In the few remarks of this kind made here I am not,
I need hardly say, "going back upon" my lifelong estimate of Tennyson as an almost impeccable
poet. But an impeccable poet is not necessarily an impeccable plot- and character-monger either
in tale-telling or in drama.)

[31] Of this we have unusually strong evidence in the shape of MS. interlineations, where the
name "Percevale" is actually struck out and that of "Gala[h]ad" substituted above it.

[32] I do not say that this is their only character.

[33] Brittany had much earlier and much more tradition of chivalry than Wales.

[34] The only fault alleged against Lancelot's person by carpers was that he was something
"pigeon"--or "guardsman"--chested. But Guinevere showed her love and her wit, and her "valiancy"
(for so at least on this occasion we may translate vaillant) by retorting that such a chest
was only big enough--and hardly big enough--for such a heart.

[35] Some of the later "redactors" of the Vulgate may perhaps have unduly multiplied his madnesses,
and have exaggerated his early shyness a little. But I am not sure of the latter point. It
is not only "beasts" that, as in the great Theocritean place, "go timidly because they fear
Cythera"; and a love charged with such dread consequences was not to be lightly embarked upon.

[36] The early Sir Lancelot and Queen Guinevere, though only external, is perfect. Many touches
in the Idylls other than the title-one are suitable and even subtle; but the convertite in
that one is (as they say now) "unconvincing." The simpler attitude of the rejection of Lancelot
in the verse Morte and in Malory is infinitely better. As for Morris's two pieces, they could
hardly be better in themselves as poems--but they are scarcely great on the novel side.

[37] Disagreeable, that is to say, as a sister and sister-in-law. There must have been something
attractive about her in other relations.

[38] Compare one of the not so very many real examples of Ibsen's vaunted psychology, the placid
indifference to her own past of Gina in the Wild Duck.

[39] He had said that if he were a woman he would give Lancelot anything he asked; and the
Queen, following, observes that Gawain had left nothing for a woman to say.

[40] Nos passions ont quelque chose d'infini, says Bossuet.

[41] [Greek: helandros, heleptolis]. She had no opportunity of being [Greek: helenaus].

[42] Hawker's security as to Cornish men and things is, I admit, a little Bardolphian. But
did he not write about the Quest? (This sort of argument simply swarms in Arthurian controversy;
so I may surely use it once.) Besides there is no doubt about the blueness of the sea in question;
though Anthony Trollope, in Malachi's Cove, has most falsely and incomprehensibly denied it.

[43] That this is a real sign of decadence and unoriginality, the further exaggeration of it
in the case of the knights of the Amadis cycle proves almost to demonstration.

[44] After the opening sentence I have dropped the historic present, which, for a continuance,
is very irritating in English.

[45] Lancelot himself has told us earlier (op. cit. i. 38) that, though he neither knew nor
thought himself to be a king's son, he was commonly addressed as such.

[46] Lionel (very young at the time) had wept because some one mentioned the loss of his inheritance,
and Lancelot (young as he too was) had bidden him not cry for fear of landlessness. "There
would be plenty for him, if he had heart to gain it."

[47] This technical title is usually if not invariably given to Ywain and Gawain as eldest
sons of recognised kings. "Prince" is not used in this sense by the older Romancers, but only
for distinguished knights like Galahault, who is really a king.

[48] There is one admirable word here, enbarnis, which has so long been lost to French that
it is not even in Littré. But Dryden's "burnish into man" probably preserves it in English;
for this is certainly not the other "burnish" from brunir.

[49] "Car moult en parole diroit la parole."

[50] Puzzled by the number of new thoughts and emotions.

[51] Ywain suggests one of the commonest things in Romance.

[52] Arthur had, by a set of chances, not actually girded on Lancelot's sword.

[53] Whose prisoner Lancelot had been, who had been ready to fall in love with him, and to
whom he had expressly refused to tell his own love. Hence his confusion.

[54] The day when Lancelot, at her request, had turned against the side of his friend Galahault
and brought victory to Arthur's.

[55] By the way, the Vulgate Mordred is a more subtle conception than the early stories gave,
or than Malory transfers. He is no mere traitor or felon knight, much less a coward, from the
first; but at that first shows a mixture of good and bad qualities in which the "dram of eale"
does its usual office. Here once more is a subject made to the hand of a novelist of the first
class.

[56] Some poet or pundit, whether of East or West, or of what place, from Santiago to Samarcand,
I know not, has laid it down, that men can love many, but without ceasing to love any; that
women love only one at once, but can (to borrow, at fifty years' memory, a phrase of George
Lawrence's in Sans Merci) "drop their lovers down oubliettes" with comparative ease.

[57] It is excusable to use two words for the single verb savoir to bring out the meaning.
King Bagdemagus does not "know" as a fact that Lancelot has slain his son, though he fears
it and feels almost sure of it.

CHAPTER III

ROMANS D'AVENTURES

[Sidenote: Variety of the present groups.]

On the whole, however, the most important influence in the development of the novel originally--that
of the nouvelle or novella in French, and Italian taking the second place in order of time--must
be assigned to the very numerous and very delightful body of compositions (not very long as
a rule,[58] but also never exactly short) to which the name Romans d'aventures has been given
with a limited connotation. They exist in all languages; our own English Romances, though sometimes
derived from the chansons and the Arthurian Legend, are practically all of this class, and
in every case but one it is true that they have actual French originals. These Romans d'aventures
have a habit, not universal but prevailing, of "keying themselves on" to the Arthurian story
itself; but they rarely, if ever, have much to do with the principal parts of it. It is as
if their public wanted the connection as a sort of guarantee; but a considerable proportion
keep independence. They are so numerous, so various, and with rare exceptions so interesting,
that it is difficult to know which to select for elaborate analysis and translated selection;
but almost the entire corpus gives us the important fact of the increased freedom of fiction.
Even the connection with the Arthurian matter is, as has been said, generally of the loosest
kind; that with the Charlemagne cycle hardly exists. The Graal (or things connected with its
legends) may appear: Gawain is a frequent hero; other, as one might call them, sociable features
as regards the older stories present themselves. But as a rule the man has got his own story
which he wants to tell; his own special hero and heroine whom he wants to present. Furthermore,
the old community of handling, which is so noticeable in the chansons more particularly, disappears
almost entirely. Nothing has yet been discovered in French, though it may be any day, to serve
as the origin of our Gawain and the Green Knight, and some special features of this are almost
certainly the work of an Englishman. Our English Ywain and Gawain is, as has been said, rather
better than Chrestien's original. But, as a rule, the form, which is French form in language
(by no means always certainly or probably French in nationality of author), is not only the
original, but better; and besides, it is with it that we are busied here, though in not a few
cases English readers can obtain an idea, fairly sufficient, of these originals from the English
versions. As these, however, with the exception of one or two remarkable individuals or even
groups, were seldom written by men of genius, it is best to go to the sources to see the power
and the variety of fictitious handling which have been mentioned.

[Sidenote: Different views held of it.]

The richness, indeed, of these Romans d'aventures is surprising, and they very seldom display
the flatness and triviality which mar by no means all but too many of their English imitations.
Some of the faults which are part cause of these others they indeed have--the apparently irrational
catalogues of birds and beasts, stuffs and vegetables; the long moralisings; the religious
passages sometimes (as it may seem to mere moderns) interposed in very odd contexts; the endless
descriptions of battles and single combats; the absence of striking characterisation and varied
incident. Their interest is a peculiar interest, yet one can hardly call the taste for it "an
acquired taste," because the very large majority of healthy and intelligent children delight
in these stories under whatever form they are presented to them, and at least a considerable
number of grown-up persons never lose the enjoyment. The disapproval which rested on "romances
of chivalry" for a long time was admittedly ignorant and absurd; and the reasons why this disapproval,
at least in its somewhat milder form of neglect, has never been wholly removed, are not very
difficult to discover. It is to be feared that Don Quixote, great as it is, has done not a
little mischief, and by virtue of its greatness is likely to do not a little more, though the
Amadis group, which it specially satirises, has faults not found in the older tales. The texts,
though in most cases easily enough accessible now, are not what may be called obviously and
yet unobtrusively so. They are to a very large extent issued by learned societies: and the
public, not too unreasonably, is rather suspicious, and not at all avid, of the products of
learned societies. They are accompanied by introductions and notes and glossaries--things the
public (again not wholly to be blamed) regards without cordiality. Latterly they have been
used for educational purposes, and anything used for educational purposes acquires an evil--or
at least an unappetising--reputation. In some cases they have been messed and meddled in usum
vulgi. But their worst enemy recently has been, it may be feared, the irreconcilable opposition
of their spirit to what is called the modern spirit--though this latter sometimes takes them
up and plays with them in a fashion of maudlin mysticism.

[Sidenote: Partenopeus of Blois selected for analysis and translation.]

To treat them at large here as Ellis treated some of the English imitations would be impossible
in point of scale and dangerous as a competition; for Ellis, though a little too prone to Voltairianise
or at least Hamiltonise things sometimes too good for that kind of treatment, was a very clever
man indeed. For somewhat full abstract and translation we may take one of the most famous,
but perhaps not one of the most generally and thoroughly known, Partenopeus (or -pex[59]) of
Blois, which, though it exists in English, and though the French was very probably written
by an Englishman, is not now one of the most widely read and is in parts very charming. That
it is one of the romances on which, from the fact of the resemblance of its central incident
to the story of Cupid and Psyche, the good defenders of the bad theory of the classical origin
of romance generally have based one of their few plausible arguments, need not occupy us. For
the question is not whether Denis Pyramus or any one else (modernity would not be modernity
if his claims were not challenged) told it, but how he told it. Still less need we treat the
other question before indicated. Here is one of the central stories of the world--one of those
which Eve told to her children in virtue of the knowledge communicated by the apple, one with
which the sons of God courted the daughters of men, or, at latest, one of those which were
yarned in the Ark. It is the story of the unwise lover--in this case the man, not as in Psyche's
the woman--who will not be content to enjoy an unseen, but by every other sense enjoyable and
adorable love, even though (in this case) the single deprivation is expressly to be terminated.
We have it, of course, in all sorts of forms, languages, and differing conditions. But we are
only concerned with it here as with a gracious example of that kind of romance which, though
not exactly a "fairy tale" in the Western sense, is pretty obviously influenced by the Eastern
fairy tale itself, and still more obviously influences the modern kind in which "the supernatural"
is definitely prominent.

It was perhaps excusable in the good M. Robert, who wrote the Introduction to Crapelet's edition
of this poem eighty years ago, to "protest too much" in favour of the author whom he was now
presenting practically for the first time--to a changed audience; but it was unnecessary and
a little unfortunate. Except in one point or group of points, it is vain to try to put Partenopeus
above Cupid and Psyche: but it can perfectly well stand by itself in its own place, and that
no low one. Except in Floire et Blanchefleur and of course in Aucassin et Nicolette, the peculiar
grace and delicacy of romance are nowhere so well shown; and Partenopeus, besides the advantage
of length, has that of personages interesting, besides the absolute hero and heroine. The Count
of Blois himself is, no doubt, despite his beauty, and his bravery, and his good nature, rather
of a feeble folk. Psyche has the excuse of her sex, besides the evil counsel of her sisters,
for her curiosity. But Partenopeus has not the former; nor has he even that weaker but still
not quite invalid one which lost Agib, the son of Cassib, his many-Houried Paradise on Earth.
He is supposed to be a Frenchman--the somewhat excessive fashion in which Frenchmen make obedience
to the second clause[60] of the Fifth Commandment atone for some neglect of other parts of
the decalogue is well known, or at least traditionally believed. But most certainly a man is
not justified in obeying his mother to the extent of disobeying--and that in the shabbiest
of ways--his lady and mistress, who is, in fact, according to mediaeval ideas, virtually, if
not virtuously, his wife. But Melior herself, the heroine, is an absolutely delightful person
from her first appearance (or rather non-appearance) as a sweet dream come true, to her last
in the more orthodox and public spousals. The grace of her Dian-like surrender of herself to
her love; the constancy with which she holds to the betrothal theory of the time; the unselfishness
with which she not only permits but actually advises the lover, whom she would so fain, but
cannot yet, make her acknowledged husband, to leave her; her frank forgiveness of his only-just-in-time
repented and prevented, but intended, infidelity; her sorrow at and after the separation enforced
by his breach of pact; her interviews with her sister, naturally chequered by conflicting feelings
of love and pride and the rest--are all charming. But she is not the only charming figure.

The "second heroine," a sister or cousin who plays a sort of superior confidante's part, is
by no means uncommon in Romance. Alexandrine, for instance, who plays this in William of Palerne,
is a very nice girl. But Urraque or Urraca,[61] the sister of Melior--whether full and legitimate,
or "half" illegitimate, versions differ--is much more elaborately dealt with, and is, in fact,
the chief character of the piece, and a character rather unusually strong for Romance. She
plays the part of reconciler after Partenopeus' fatal folly has estranged him from her sister,
and plays it at great length, but with much less tedium than might be expected. But the author
is an "incurable feminist," as some one else was once described with a mixture of pity and
admiration: and he is not contented with two heroines. There is a third, Persewis, maid of
honour to Urraque, and also a fervent admirer of the incomparable Partenopeus, on whose actual
beauty great stress is laid, and who in romance, other than his own, is quoted as a modern
paragon thereof, worthy to rank with ancient patterns, sacred and profane. Persewis, however,
is very young--a "flapper" or a "[bread-and-]buttercup," as successive generations have irreverently
called the immature but agreeable creature. The poet lays much emphasis on this youth. She
did not "kiss and embrace," he says, just because she was too young, and not because of any
foolish prudery or propriety, things which he does not hesitate to pronounce appropriate only
to ugly girls. His own attitude to "the fair" is unflinchingly put in one of the most notable
and best known passages of the poem (l. 7095 sq.):

     When God made all creation, and devised their forms for his
     creatures, He distributed beauties and good qualities to
     each in proportion as He loved it. He loved ladies above all
     things, and therefore made for them the best qualities and
     beauties. Of mere earth made He everything [else] under
     Heaven: but the hearts of ladies He made of honey, and gave
     to them more courtesy than to any other living creature. And
     as God loves them, therefore I love them: hunger and thirst
     are nothing to me as regards them: and I cry "Quits" to Him
     for His Paradise if the bright faces of ladies enter not
     therein.

It will be observed, of course, how like this is to the most famous passage of Aucassin et
Nicolette. It is less dreamily beautiful, but there is a certain spirit and downrightness about
it which is agreeable; nor do I know anywhere a more forcible statement of the doctrine, often
held by no bad people, that beauty is a personal testimonial of the Divinity--a scarcely parabolic
command to love and admire its possessors.[62]

If, however, our poet has something of that Romantic morality to which Ascham--in a conjoined
fit[63] of pedantry, prudery, and Protestantism--gave such an ugly name, he may excuse it to
less strait-laced judges by other traits. Even the "retainer" of an editor ought not to have
induced M. Robert to say that Melior's original surrender was "against her will," though she
certainly did make a protest of a kind.[64] But the enchanted and enchanting Empress's constancy
is inviolable. Even after she has been obliged to banish her foolish lover, or rather after
he has banished himself, she avows herself his only. She will die, she says, before she takes
another lord; and for this reason objects for some time to the proposed tourney for her hand,
in which the already proven invincibility of the Count of Blois makes him almost a certain
victor, because it involves a conditional consent to admit another mate. To her scrupulousness,
a kind of blunt common-sense, tempering the amiability of Urraca, is a pleasant set-off, and
the freshness of Persewis completes the effect.

Moreover, there are little bits of almost Chaucerian vividness and terseness here and there,
contrasting oddly with the chevilles--the stock phrases and epithets--elsewhere. When the tourney
actually comes off and Partenopeus is supposed to be prisoner of a felon knight afar off, the
two sisters and Persewis take their places at the entrance of the tower crossing the bridge
at Melior's capital, "Chef d'Oire."[65] Melior is labelled only "whom all the world loves and
prizes," but Urraca and her damsel "have their faces pale and discoloured--for they have lost
much of their beauty--so sorely have they wept Partenopeus." On the contrary, when, at the
close of the first day's tourney, the usual "unknown knights" (in this case the Count of Blois
himself and his friend Gaudins) ride off triumphant, they "go joyfully to their hostel with
lifted lances, helmets on head, hauberks on back, and shields held proudly as if to begin jousting."

    Bel i vinrent et bel s'en vont,

says King Corsols, one of the judges of the tourney, but not in the least aware of their identity.
This may occur elsewhere, but it is by no means one of the commonplaces of Romance, and a well
hit-off picture is motived by a sharply cut phrase.[66]

It is this sudden enlivening of the commonplaces of Romance with vivid picture and phrase which
puts Partenopeus high among its fellows. The story is very simple, and the variation and multiplication
of episodic adventure unusually scanty; while the too common genealogical preface is rather
exceptionally superfluous. That the Count of Blois is the nephew of Clovis can interest--outside
of a peculiar class of antiquarian commentator--no mortal; and the identification of "Chef-d'Oire,"
Melior's enchanted capital, with Constantinople, though likely enough, is not much more important.
Clovis and Byzantium (of which the enchantress is Empress) were well-known names and suited
the abonné of those times. The actual "argument" is of the slightest. One of Spenser's curious
doggerel common measures--say:

    A fairy queen grants bliss and troth
      On terms, unto the knight:
    His mother makes him break his oath,
      Her sister puts it right--

would almost do; the following prose abstract is practically exhaustive.

Partenopeus, Count of Blois, nephew of King Clovis of France, and descendant of famous heroes
of antiquity, including Hector, the most beautiful and one of the most valiant of men, after
displaying his prowess in a war with the Saracen Sornagur, loses his way while hunting in the
Ardennes. He at last comes to the seashore, and finds a ship which in fifteen days takes him
to a strange country, where all is beautiful but entirely solitary. He finds a magnificent
palace, where he is splendidly guested by unseen hands, and at last conducted to a gorgeous
bedchamber. In the dark he, not unnaturally, lies awake speculating on the marvel; and after
a time light footsteps approach the bed, and a form, invisible but tangible, lies down beside
him. He touches it, and finds it warm and soft and smooth, and though it protests a little,
the natural consequences follow. Then the lady confesses that she had heard of him, had (incognita)
seen him at the Court of France, and had, being a white witch as well as an Empress, brought
him to "Chef d'Oire," her capital, though she denies having intentionally or knowingly arranged
the shepherd's hour itself.[67] She is, however, as frank as Juliet and Miranda combined. She
will be his wife (she makes a most interesting and accurate profession of Christian orthodoxy)
if he will marry her; but it is impossible for the remainder of a period of which two and a
half years have still to run, and at the end of which, and not till then, she has promised
her vassals to choose a husband. Meanwhile, Partenopeus must submit to an ordeal not quite
so painful as hot ploughshares. He must never see her or attempt to see her, and he must not,
during his stay at Chef d'Oire, see or speak to any other human being. At the same time, hunting,
exploring the palace and the city and the country, and all other pastimes independent of visible
human companionship, are freely at his disposal by day.

    Et moi aurès cascune nuit

says Melior, with the exquisite simplicity which is the charm of the whole piece.

One must be very inquisitive, exceedingly virtuous (the mediaeval value of consummated betrothal
being reckoned), superfluously fond of the company of one's miscellaneous fellow-creatures,
and a person of very bad taste[68] to boot, in order to decline the bargain. Partenopeus does
not dream of doing so, and for a whole year thinks of nothing but his fairy love and her bounties
to him. Then he remembers his uncle-king and his country, and asks leave to visit them, but
not with the faintest intention of running away. Melior gives it with the same frankness and
kindness with which she has given herself--informing him, in fact, that he ought to go, for
his uncle is dead and his country in danger. Only, she reminds him of his pledges, and warns
him of the misfortunes which await his breach of them. He is then magically wafted back on
ship-board as he came.

He has, once more, no intention of playing the truant or traitor, and does his duty bravely
and successfully. But the new King has a niece and the Count himself has a mother, who, motherlike,
is convinced that her son's mysterious love is a very bad person, if not an actual maufès or
devil, and is very anxious that he shall marry the niece. She has clerical and chemical resources
to help her, and Partenopeus has actually consented, in a fit of aberration, when, with one
of the odd Wemmick-like flashes of reflection,[69] not uncommon with knights, he remembers
Melior, and unceremoniously makes off to her. He confesses (for he is a good creature though
foolish) and is forgiven, Melior being, though not in the least insipid or of a put-up-with-anything
disposition, full of "loving mercy" in every sense. But the situation is bound to recur, and
now, though the time of probation (probation very much tempered!) is nearly over, the mother
wins her way. Partenopeus is deluded into accepting an enchanted lantern, which he tries on
his unsuspecting mistress at the first possible moment. What he sees, of course, is only a
very lovely woman--a woman in the condition best fitted to show her loveliness--whom he has
offended irreparably, and lost.

Melior is no scold, but she is also no milksop. She will have nothing more to do with him,
for he has shamed her with her people (who now appear), broken her magic power, and, above
all, been false to her wish and his word. The entreaties of her sister Urraca (whose gracious
figure is now elaborately introduced) are for the time useless, and Partenopeus is only saved
from the vengeance of the courtiers and the household by Urraca's protection.[70]

To halt for a moment, the scene of the treason and discovery is another of those singular vividnesses
which distinguish this poem and story. The long darkness suddenly flashing into light, and
the startled Melior's beauty framed in the splendour of the couch and the bedchamber--the offender
at once realising his folly and his crime, and dashing the instrument of his treachery (useless,
for all is daylight now, the charm being counter-charmed) against the wall--the half-frightened,
half-curious Court ladies and Court servants thronging in--the apparition of Urraca,--all this
gives a picture of extraordinarily dramatic power. It reminds one a little of Spenser's famous
portrayal of Britomart disturbed at night, and the comparison of the two brings out all sorts
of "excellent differences."

But to return to the story itself. Although the invariable cut-and-driedness of romance incidents
has been grossly exaggerated, there is one situation which is almost always treated in the
same way. The knight who has, with or without his own fault, incurred the displeasure of his
mistress, "doth [always] to the green wood go," and there, whether in complete sanity or not,
lives for a time a half or wholly savage life, discarding knightly and sometimes any other
dress, eating very little, and in considerable danger of being eaten himself. Everybody, from
Lancelot to Amadis, does it; and Partenopeus does it too, but in his own way. Reaching Blois
and utterly rejecting his mother's attempts to excuse herself and console him, he drags out
a miserable time in continual penance and self-neglect, till at last, availing himself of (and
rather shabbily if piously tricking) a Saracen page,[71] he succeeds in getting off incognito
to the vague "Ardennes," where his sadly ended adventure had begun. These particular Ardennes
appear to be reachable by sea (on which they have a coast), and to contain not only ordinary
beasts of chase, not only wolves and bears, but lions, tigers, wyverns, dragons, etc. A single
unarmed man has practically no chance there, and the Count determines to condemn himself to
the fate of the Roman arena. As a preliminary, he dismounts and turns loose his horse, who
is presently attacked by a lion and wounded, but luckily gets a fair blow with his hoof between
his enemy's eyes, and kills him. Then comes another of the flashes (and something more) of
the piece. Stung by the pain of his wound and dripping with blood, the animal dashes at full
speed, and whinnying at the top of his powers, to the seashore and along it. The passage is
worth translating:

     He [the horse after he has killed the lion] lifts his
     tail, and takes to flight down a valley towards nightfall.
     Much he looks about him and much he whinnies. By night-time
     he has got out of the wood and has fled to the sea: but he
     will not stop there. He makes the pebbles fly as he gallops
     and never stops whinnying. Now the moon has mounted high in
     the heavens, all clear and bright and shining: there is not
     a dark cloud in all the sky, nor any movement on the sea:
     sweet and serene is the weather, and fair and clear and
     lightened up. And the palfrey whinnies so loudly that he can
     be heard far off at sea.

He is heard at sea, for a ship is waiting there in the calm, and on board that ship is Urraca,
with a wise captain named Maruc and a stout crew. The singularity of the event induces them
to land (Maruc knows the dangers of the region, but Urraca has no fears; the captain also knows
how to enchant the beasts), and the horse's bloodmarks guide them up the valley. At last they
come upon a miserable creature, in rags, dishevelled, half-starved, and altogether unrecognisable.
After a little time, however, Urraca does recognise him, and, despite his forlorn and repulsive
condition, takes him in her arms.

    Si le descouvre un poi le vis.

Yet another of the uncommon "flashlight" sketches, where in two short lines one sees the damsel
as she has been described not so long before, "tall and graceful, her fair hair (which, untressed,
reached her feet [now, no doubt, more suitably arranged]), with forehead broad and high, and
smooth; grey eyes, large and seignorous" (an admirable word for eyes), "all her face one kiss";
one sees her with one arm round the tottering wretch, and with the "long fingers" of her other
white hand clearing the matted hair from his visage till she can recognise him.

They take him on board, of course, though to induce him to go this delightful creature has
to give an account of her sister's feelings (which, to put it mildly, anticipates the truth
very considerably), and also to cry over him a little.[72] She takes him to Saleuces,[73] an
island principality of her own, and there she and her maid-of-honour, Persewis (see above),
proceed to cocker and cosset him up exactly as one imagines two such girls would do to "a dear,
silly, nice, handsome thing," as a favourite modern actress used to bring down the house by
saying, with a sort of shake, half of tears and half of laughter, in her voice. Indeed the
phrase fits Partenopeus precisely. We are told that Urraca would have been formally in love
with him if it had not been unsportsgirl-like towards her sister; and as for Persewis, there
is once more a windfall in the description of the "butter-cup's" delight when Urraca, going
to see Melior, has to leave her alone with the Count. The Princess is of course very sorry
to go. "But Persewis would not have minded if she had stayed forty days, or till August," and
she "glories greatly" when her rival departs. No mischief, however, comes of it; for the child
is "too young," as we are earnestly assured, and Partenopeus, to do him justice, is both too
much of a gentleman, and too dolefully in earnest about recovering Melior, to dream of any.

Meanwhile, Urraca is most unselfishly doing her very best to reconcile the lovers, not neglecting
the employment of white fibs as before, and occasionally indulging, not merely in satiric observation
on poor Melior's irresolution and conflict of feeling, but in decidedly sisterly plainness
of speech, reminding the Empress that after all she had entrapped Partenopeus into loving her,
and that he had, for two whole years, devoted himself entirely to her love and its conditions.
At last a rather complicated and not always quite consistently told provisional settlement
is arrived at, carrying out, in a manner, the undertakings referred to by Melior in her first
interview with her lover. An immense tourney for the hand of Melior is to be held, with a jury
of kings to judge it: and everybody, Christian or pagan, from emperor to vavasour is invited
to compete. But in case of no single victor, a kind of "election" by what may be called the
States of Byzantium--kings, dukes, counts, and simple fief-holders--is to decide, and it seems
sometimes as if Melior retained something of a personal veto at last. Of the incidents and
episodes before this actually comes off, the most noteworthy are a curious instance of the
punctilio of chivalry (the Count having once promised Melior that no one but herself shall
gird on his sword, makes a difficulty when Urraca and Persewis arm him), and a misfortune by
which he, rowing carelessly by himself, falls into the power of a felon knight, Armans of Thenodon.
This last incident, however, though it alarms his two benefactresses, is not really unlucky.
For, in the first place, Armans is not at home, and his wife, falling a victim, like every
woman, to Partenopeus' extraordinary beauty, allows him his parole; while the accident enables
him to appear at the tournament incognito--a practice always affected, if possible, by the
knights of romance, and in this case possessing some obvious and special advantages.

On his way he meets another knight, Gaudin le Blond, with whom he gladly strikes up brotherhood-in-arms.
The three days of the mellay are not very different from the innumerable similar scenes elsewhere,
nor can the author be said to be specially happy at this kind of business. But any possible
tedium is fairly relieved by the shrewd and sometimes jovial remarks made by one of the judging
kings, the before-quoted Corsols--met by grumbles from another, Clarin, and by the fears and
interest of the three ladies, of whom the ever-faithful and shrewd Urraca is the first to discover
Partenopeus. He and Gaudin perform the usual exploits and suffer the usual inconveniences,
but at the end it is still undecided whether the Count of Blois or the Soldan of Persia--a
good knight, though a pagan, and something of a braggart--deserves the priceless prize of Melior's
hand with the empire of Byzantium to boot. The "election" follows, and after some doubt goes
right, while Melior now offers no objection. But the Soldan, in his outrecuidance, demands
single combat. He has, of course, no right to do this, and the Council and the Empress object
strongly. But Partenopeus will have no stain on his honour; consents to the fight; deliberately
refuses to take advantage of the Soldan when he is unhorsed and pinned down by the animal;
assists him to get free; and only after an outrageous menace from the Persian justifies his
own claim to belong to the class of champions

    Who always cleave their foe
        To the waist

--indeed excels them, by entirely bisecting the Soldan.

An episodic restoration of parole to the widow of Armans (who has actually taken part in the
tourney and been killed) should be noticed, and the piece ends, or rather comes close to an
end, with the marriages which appropriately follow these well-deserved murders. Marriages--not
a marriage only--for King "Lohier" of France most sensibly insists on espousing the delightful
Urraca: and Persewis is consoled for the loss of Partenopeus by the suit--refused at first
and then granted, with the obviously intense enjoyment of both processes likely in a novice--of
his brother-in-arms, to whom the "Emperor of Byzantium" abandons his own two counties in France,
adding a third in his new empire, and winning by this generosity almost more popularity than
by his prowess.

But, as was hinted, the story does not actually end. There is a great deal about the festivities,
and though the author says encouragingly that he "will not devise much of breeches," he does--and
of many other garments. Indeed the last of his liveliest patches is a mischievous picture of
the Court ladies at their toilette: "Let me see that mirror; make my head-dress higher; let
me show my mouth more; drop the pleat over the eyes;[74] alter my eyebrows," etc. etc. But
beyond the washing of hands before the feast, this French book that Crapelet printed fourscore
years ago goeth not. Perhaps it was a mere accident; perhaps the writer had a shrewd notion
that whatever he wrote would seem but stale in its reminder of the night when Partenopeus lay
awake, and seemingly alone, in the enchanted palace--now merely an ordinary place of splendour
and festivity--and when something came to the bed, "step by step, little by little," and laid
itself beside him.

Such are the contents and such some of the special traits and features of one of the most famous
of those romances of chivalry, the reading of which with anything like the same interest as
that taken in Homer, seemed to the Reverend Professor Hugh Blair to be the most suitable instance
he could hit upon of a total lack of taste. This is a point, of course, on which each age,
and each reader in each age, must judge for itself and himself. I think the author of the Odyssey
(the Iliad comes rather in competition with the chansons than with these romances) was a better
poet than the author of Partenopeus, and I also think that he was a better story-teller; but
I do not think that the latter was a bad story-teller; and I can read him with plenty of interest.
So I can most of his fellows, no one of whom, I think, ever quite approaches the insipidity
of their worst English imitators. The knights do not weary me with their exploits, and I confess
that I am hyperbolical enough to like reading and thinking as well as talking of the ladies
very much. They are of various sorts; but they are generally lovable. There is no better for
affection and faithfulness and pluck than the Josiane of Bevis, whose husband and her at one
time faithful guardian, but at another would-be ravisher, Ascapart, guard a certain gate not
more than a furlong or two from where I am writing. It is good to think of the (to some extent
justified) indignation of l'Orgueilleuse d'Amours when Sir Blancandin rides up and audaciously
kisses her in the midst of her train; and the companion picture of the tomb where Idoine apparently
sleeps in death (while her true knight Amadas fights with a ghostly foe above) makes a fitting
pendant. If her near namesake with an L prefixed, the Lidoine of Méraugis de Portlesguez, interests
me less, it is because its author, Raoul de Houdenc, was one of the first to mix love and moral
allegory--a "wanity" which is not my favourite "wanity." To the Alexandrine of Guillaume de
Palerne reference has already been made. Blanchefleur--known all over Europe with her lover
Floire (Floris, etc.)--the Saracen slave who charms a Christian prince, and is rescued by him
from the Emir of Babylon, to whom she has been sold in hopes of weaning Floris from his attachment,
more than deserved her vogue. But, as in the case of the chansons, mere cataloguing would be
dull and unprofitable, and analysis on the scale accorded to Partenopeus impossible. One must
only take up once more the note of this whole early part of our history, and impress again
on the reader the evident desire for the accomplished novel which these numerous romances show;
the inevitable practice, in tale-telling of a kind, which the production of them might have
given; and, above all, the openings, germs, suggestions of new devices in fiction which are
observable in them, and which remained for others to develop if the first finders left them
unimproved.

FOOTNOTES:

[58] That is, of nothing like the length of the latest forms of the Chansons de Geste or the
Arthurian Romances proper. Some of the late fourteenth- and fifteenth-century Adventure stories,
before they dropped into prose, are indeed long enough, and a great deal too long; but they
show degeneracy.

[59] The h (Parth-) does occur in both forms, and there are other variation, as "Partonopeus,"
etc. But these are trifles.

[60] Taking honour to the mother as separate from that to the father.

[61] The Spanish-English form is perhaps the prettier. I am sorry to say that the poet, to
get a rhyme, sometimes spells it "Urracle," which is not pretty. Southey's "Queen Orraca" seems
to me to have changed her vowel to disadvantage.

[62] The original author of the Court of Love, whether Chaucer or another, pretty certainly
knew it; and Spenser spiritualised the doctrine itself in the Four Hymns.

[63] I think the medical people (borrowing, as Science so often does, the language which she
would fain banish from human knowledge) call this sort of thing a syndrome.

[64] See below on Urraca's plain speaking.

[65] Not too commentatorially identified with Constantinople.

[66] It may be worth noting that in this context appears the original form of an English word
quite common recently, but almost unknown a very short time ago--"grouse" in the sense of "complain,"
"grumble": "Ce dist Corsols et nul n'en grouce."

[67] No one will be rude enough to disbelieve her, and, as will be seen, her supernatural powers
had limits; but it was odd, though fortunate, that they should have broken down exactly at
this important juncture. Who made those rebellious candles take him to that chamber and couch,
unknown to her?

[68] For Melior, though of invisible beauty, is represented as delightful in every other way,
as wise and witty and gracious in speech as becomes a white witch. And when her lover on one
occasion thanks her for her sermon, there is no satire; he only means sermo.

[69] Like Guy of Warwick; still more like Mr. Jaggers's clerk, though the circumstances are
reversed. He almost says in so many words, "Hullo! here's an engagement ring on my finger.
We can't have a marriage."

[70] The author, more suo, intimates that the Court ladies by no means shared these hostile
feelings, and would have willingly been in Melior's place.

[71] He induces him to turn Christian on the supposition of being his companion; and then gives
him the slip. The neophyte's expressions on the occasion are not wholly edifying.

[72] The good palfrey is found and in a state to carry his master, who is quite unable to walk.
One hopes they did not leave the beast to the lions, tigers, wyverns, etc., for he could hardly
hope for such a literal "stroke of luck" again.

[73] The name will suggest, to those who have some wine-lore, no less a vintage than Château
Yquem. Nothing could be better for a person in the Count's condition as a restorative.

[74] These two directions obviously refer to the common mediaeval "wimple" arrangement.

CHAPTER IV

THE BEGINNINGS OF PROSE FICTION

[Sidenote: Prose novelettes of the thirteenth century. Aucassin et Nicolette not quite typical.]

The title of this chapter may seem an oversight or an impertinence, considering that large
parts of an earlier one have been occupied with discussions and translations of the prose Arthurian
Romances. It was, however, expressly pointed out that the priority of these is a matter of
opinion, not of judgment; and it may be here quite frankly admitted that one of the most serious
arguments against that priority is the extreme lateness of Old French Prose in any finished
literary form. The excuse, however, if excuse be needed, does not turn on any such hinge as
this. It was desired to treat, in the last two chapters, romance matter proper of the larger
kind, whether that matter took the form of prose or of verse. Here, on the other hand, the
object is to deal with the smaller but more miscellaneous body of fictitious matter (part,
no doubt, of a larger) which presents it tolerably early, and in character foretells the immense
development of the kind which French was to see later.[75] A portion of this body, sufficient
for us, is contained in two little volumes of the Bibliothèque Elzévirienne, published rather
less than sixty years ago (1856 and 1858) by MM. L. Moland and Ch. d'Héricault, the first devoted
to thirteenth-, the second to fourteenth-century work. One of these, the now world-famous Aucassin
et Nicolette, has been so much written about and so often translated already that it cannot
be necessary to say a great deal about it here. It is, moreover, of a mixed kind, a cante-fable
or blend of prose and verse, with a considerable touch of the dramatic in it. Its extraordinary
charm is a thing long ago settled; but it is, on the whole, more of a dramatic and lyrical
romance--to recouple or releash kinds which Mr. Browning had perhaps best never have put asunder--than
of a pure prose tale.

[Sidenote: L'Empereur Constant more so.]

Its companions in the thirteenth-century volume are four in number, and if none of them has
the peculiar charm, so none has the technical disqualification (if that be not too strong a
word) of Aucassin et Nicolette. The first, shortest, and, save for one or two points, least
remarkable, L'Empereur Constant, is a very much abbreviated and in more than one sense prosaic
version of the story out of which Mr. William Morris made his delightful The Man Born to be
King. Probably of Greek or Greek-Eastern origin, it begins with an astrological passage in
which the Emperor, childless except for a girl, becomes informed of the imminent birth of a
man-child, who shall marry his daughter and succeed him. He discovers the, as it seems, luckless
baby; has it brought to him, and with his own hand attempts to disembowel it, but allows himself,
most improbably,[76] to be dissuaded from finishing the operation. The benevolent knight who
has prevented the completion of the crime takes the infant to a monastery, where (after a quaint
scene of haggling about fees with the surgeon) the victim is patched up, grows to be a fine
youth, and comes across the Emperor, to whom the abbot guilelessly, but in this case naturally
enough,[77] betrays the secret. The Emperor's murderous thoughts as naturally revive, and the
frustration of them by means of the Princess's falling in love with the youth, the changing
of "the letters of Bellerophon," and the Emperor's resignation to the inevitable, follow the
same course as in the English poem. The latter part is better than the earlier; and the writer
is evidently (as how should he not be?) a novice; but his work is the kind of experiment from
which better things will come.

[Sidenote: Le Roi Flore et la Belle Jehane.]

These marks of the novice are even more noticeable in a much longer story, Le Roi Flore et
la Belle Jehane, which is found not only in the same printed volume, but in the same original
MS. The fault of this is curious, and--if not to a mere reader for pastime, to a student of
fiction--extremely interesting. It is one not at all unknown at the present day, and capable
of being used as an argument in favour of the doctrine of the Unities: that is to say, the
mixture, by arbitrary and violent process, of two stories which have nothing whatever to do
with each other, except that they are, wilfully and with no reason, buckled together at the
end. The first, thin and uninteresting enough, is of a certain King Florus, who has a wife,
dearly beloved, but barren. After some years and some very unmanly shilly-shallyings, he puts
her away, and marries another, with whom (one is feebly glad to find) he is no more lucky,
but who has herself the luck to die after some years. Meanwhile, King Florus being left "in
a cool barge for future use," the second item, a really interesting story, is, with some intervals,
carried on. A Count of high rank and great possessions has an only daughter, whom, after experience
of the valour and general worthiness of one of his vassals of no great "having," he bestows
on this knight, Robert, the pair being really in love with each other. But another vassal knight
of greater wealth, Raoul, plots with one of the wicked old women who abound in these stories,
and engages Robert in a rash wager of all his possessions, that during one of those pilgrimages
to "St. James," which come in so handy, and are generally so unreasonable, he will dishonour
the lady. He fails, but, in a manner not distantly related to the Imogen-Iachimo scene, acquires
what seems to be damning acquaintance with the young Countess's person-marks. Robert and Jehane
are actually married; but the felon knight immediately afterwards brings his charge, and Robert
pays his debt, and flies, a ruined man, from, as he thinks, his faithless wife, though he takes
no vengeance on her. Jehane disguises herself as a man, joins him on his journey, supports
him with her own means for a time, and enters into partnership with him in merchandise at Marseilles,
he remaining ignorant of her sex and relation to him. At last things come right: the felon
knight is forced in single combat (a long and good one) to acknowledge his lie and give up
his plunder, and the excellent but somewhat obtuse Robert recovers his wife as well. A good
end if ever there was one, and not a badly told tale in parts. But, from some utterly mistaken
idea of craftsmanship, the teller must needs kill Robert for no earthly reason, except in order
that Jehane may become the third wife of Florus and bear him children. A more disastrous "sixth
act" has seldom been imagined; for most readers will have forgotten all about Florus, who has
had neither art nor part in the main story; few can care whether the King has children or not;
and still fewer can be other than disgusted at the notion of Jehane, brave, loving, and clever,
being, as a widow, made a mere child-bearing machine to an oldish and rather contemptible second
husband. But, once more, the mistake is interesting, and is probably the first example of that
fatal error of not knowing when to leave off, which is even worse than the commoner one (to
be found in some great artists) of "huddling up the story." The only thing to be said in excuse
is that you could cut his majesty Florus out of the title and tale at once without even the
slightest difficulty, and with no need to mend or meddle in any other way.

The remaining stories of the thirteenth-century volume are curiously contrasted. One is a short
prose version of that exquisite chanson de geste, Amis et Amiles, of which it has been said
above that any one who cannot "taste" it need never hope to understand mediaeval literature.
The full beauty of the verse story does not appear in the prose; but some does.

[Sidenote: Le Comtesse de Ponthieu.]

Of the other, the so-called "Comtesse de Ponthieu" (though she is not really this, being only
the Count's daughter and the wife of a vassal), I thought rather badly when I first read it
thirty or forty years ago, and till the present occasion I have never read it since. Now I
think better of it, especially as a story suggestive in story-telling art. The original stumbling-block,
which I still see, though I can get over or round it better now, was, I think, the character
of the heroine, who inherits not merely the tendency to play fast and loose with successive
husbands, which is observable in both chanson and roman heroines, but something of the very
unlovely savagery which is also sometimes characteristic of them; while the hero also is put
in "unpleasant" circumstances. He is a gentleman and a good knight, and though only a vassal
of the Count of Ponthieu, he, as has been said, marries the Count's daughter, entirely to her
and her father's satisfaction. But they are childless, and the inevitable "monseigneur Saint
Jakeme" (St. James of Compostella) suggests himself for pilgrimage. Thiebault, the knight,
obtains leave from his lady to go, and she, by a device not unprettily told, gets from him
leave to go too. Unfortunately and unwisely they send their suite on one morning, and ride
alone through a forest, where they are set upon by eight banditti. Thiebault fights these odds
without flinching, and actually kills three, but is overpowered by sheer numbers. They do not
kill him, but bind and toss him into a thicket, after which they take vengeance of outrage
on the lady and depart, fearing the return of the meyney. Thiebault feels that his unhappy
wife is guiltless, but unluckily does not assure her of this, merely asking her to deliver
him. So she, seeing a sword of one of the slain robbers, picks it up, and, "full of great ire
and evil will," cries, "I will deliver you, sir," and, instead of cutting his bonds, tries
to run him through. But she only grazes him, and actually cuts the thongs, so that he shakes
himself free, starts up, and wrests the sword from her with the simple words, "Lady, it is
not to-day that you will kill me." To which she replies, "And right sorry I am therefor."[78]
Their followers come up; the pair are clothed and set out again on their journey. But Thiebault,
though treating his wife with the greatest attention, leaves her at a monastery, accomplishes
his pilgrimage alone, and on his return escorts her to Ponthieu as if nothing had happened.
Still--though no one knows this or indeed anything about her actual misfortune and intended
crime--he does not live with her as his wife. After a time the Count, who is, as another story
has it, a "harbitrary" Count, insists that Thiebault shall tell him some incident of his voyage,
and the husband (here is the weak point of the whole) recounts the actual adventure, though
not as of himself and his lady. The Count will not stand ambiguity, and at last extorts the
truth, which the lady confirms, repeating her sorrow that she had not slain her husband. Now
the Count is, as has been said, an arbitrary Count, and one day, his county having, as our
Harold knew to his cost, a sea-coast to it, somewhat less disputable than those of Bohemia
and the Ardennes, embarks, with only his daughter, son-in-law, son, and a few retainers, taking
with him a nice new cask. Into this, despite the prayers of her husband and brother, he puts
the lady, and flings it overboard. She is picked up half-suffocated by mariners, who carry
her to "Aymarie" and sell her to the Sultan. She is very beautiful, and the Sultan promptly
proposes conversion and marriage. She makes no difficulty, bears him two children, and is apparently
quite happy. But meanwhile the Count of Ponthieu begins--his son and son-in-law have never
ceased--to feel that he has exercised the paternal rights rather harshly; the Archbishop of
Rheims very properly confirms his ideas on this point, and all three go outremer on pilgrimage
to the Holy Land. They are captured by the Saracens of Aymarie, imprisoned, starved, and finally
in immediate danger of being shot to death as an amusement for the Sultan's bodyguard. But
the Sultaness has found out who they are, visits them in prison, and "reconciliations and forgivenesses
of injuries" follow.

After this, things go in an easily guessable manner. The Countess-Sultana beguiles her easy-going
lord into granting her the lives of the prisoners one after another, for which she rewards
him by carrying them off, with her son by the second marriage, to Italy, where the boy is baptized.
"The Apostle" (as the Pope is usually called in Romance), by a rather extensive exercise of
his Apostleship, gives everybody absolution, confirms the original marriage of Thiebault and
the lady who had been so obstinately sorry that she had not killed him, and who had suffered
the paynim spousals so easily; and all goes merrily. There is a postscript which tells how
the daughter of the Sultan and the Countess, who is termed La Bele Caitive, captivates and
marries a Turk of great rank, and becomes the mother of no less a person than the great Saladin
himself--a consummation no doubt very satisfactory to the Miss Martha Buskbodies of the mediaeval
world.

Now this story might seem to one who read it hastily, carelessly, or as "not in the vein,"
to be partly extravagant, partly disagreeable, and, despite its generous allowance of incident,
rather dull, especially if contrasted with its next neighbour in the printed volume, Aucassin
et Nicolette itself. I am afraid there may have been some of these uncritical conditions about
my own first reading. But a little study shows some remarkable points in it, though the original
writer has not known how to manage them. The central and most startling one--the attempt of
the Countess to murder her husband--is, when you think of it, not at all unnatural. The lady
is half mad with her shame; the witness, victim, and, as she thinks, probable avenger of that
shame is helpless before her, and in his first words at any rate seems to think merely of himself
and not of her. Whether this violent outburst of feeling was not likely to result in as violent
a revulsion of tenderness is rather a psychological probability than artistically certain.
And Thiebault, though an excellent fellow, is a clumsy one. His actual behaviour is somewhat
of that "killing-with-kindness" order which exasperates when it does not itself kill or actually
reconcile; and, whether out of delicacy or not, he does not give his wife the only proof that
he acknowledges the involuntariness of her actual misfortune, and forgives the voluntariness
of her intended crime. His telling the story is inexcusable: and neither his preference of
his allegiance as a vassal to his duty as knight, lover, and husband in the case of the Count's
cruelty, nor his final acceptance of so many and such peculiar bygones can be called very pretty.
But there are possibilities in the story, if they are not exactly made into good gifts.

[Sidenote: Those of the fourteenth. Asseneth.]

The contents of the fourteenth-century volume are, with one exception, much less interesting
in themselves; but from the point of view of the present enquiry they hardly yield to their
predecessors. They are three in number: Asseneth, Foulques Fitzwarin, and Troilus. The first,
which is very short, is an account of Joseph's courtship of his future wife, in which entirely
guiltless proceeding he behaves at first very much as if the daughter of Potipherah were fruit
as much forbidden as the wife of Potiphar. For on her being proposed to him (he has come to
her father, splendidly dressed and brilliantly handsome, on a mission from Pharaoh) he at first
replies that he will love her as his sister. This, considering the Jewish habit of exchanging
the names, might not be ominous. But when the damsel, at her father's bidding, offers to kiss
him, Joseph puts his hand on her chest and pushes her back, accompanying the action with words
(even more insulting in detail than in substance) to the effect that it is not for God-fearing
man to kiss an idolatress. (At this point one would rather like to kick Joseph.) However, when,
naturally enough, she cries with vexation, the irreproachable but most unlikable patriarch
condescends to pat her on the head and bless her. This she takes humbly and thankfully; deplores
his absence, for he is compelled to return to his master; renounces her gods; is consoled by
an angel, who feeds her with a miraculous honeycomb possessing a sort of sacramental force,
and announces her marriage to Joseph, which takes place almost immediately.

It will be at once seen, by those who know something of the matter, that this is entirely in
the style of large portions of the Graal romances; and so it gives us a fresh and interesting
division of the new short prose tale, allying itself to some extent with the allegory which
was to be so fruitful both in verse and in prose. It is not particularly attractive in substance;
but is not badly told, and would have made (what it was very likely used as) a good sermon-story.

[Sidenote: Troilus.]

As Asseneth, the first of the three, is by far the shortest, so Troilus, the last, is by far
the longest. It is, in fact, nearly twenty times the length of the history of Joseph's pious
impoliteness, and makes up something like two-thirds of the whole collection. But, except as
a variant of one of the famous stories of the world (v. sup. Chap. IV.), it has little interest,
and is not even directly taken from Benoît de Sainte-Maure, but from Guido delle Colonne and
Boccaccio, of whose Filostrato it is, in fact, a mere translation, made apparently by a known
person of high station, Pierre de Beauvau, one of the chief nobles of Anjou, at the close of
the fourteenth and the beginning of the fifteenth century. It thus brings itself into direct
connection with Chaucer's poem, and has some small importance for literary history generally.
But it has not much for us. It was not Boccaccio's verse but his prose that was really to influence
the French Novel.

[Sidenote: Foulques Fitzwarin.]

With the middle piece of the volume, Foulques Fitzwarin, it is very different. It is true that
the present writer was once "smitten friendly" by a disciple of the modern severe historical
school, who declared that the adventures of Fitzwarin, though of course adulterated, were an
important historical document, and nothing so frivolous as a novel. One has, however, a reed-like
faculty of getting up again from such smitings: and for my part I do not hesitate once more
to call Foulques Fitzwarin the first historical prose novel in modern literature. French in
language, as we have it, it is thoroughly English in subject, and, beyond all doubt, in the
original place of composition, while there is no reason to doubt the assertion that there were
older verse-renderings of the story both in English and French. In fact, they may turn up yet.
But the thing as it stands is a very desirable and even delectable thing, and well deserved
its actual publication, not merely in the French collection, of which we are speaking, but
in the papers of the too short-lived English Warton Club.

For it is not only our first historical novel, but also the first, as far as England is concerned,
of those outlaw stories which have always delighted worthy English youth from Robin Hood to
The Black Arrow. The Fitzwarins, as concerns their personalities and genealogies, may be surrendered
without a pang to the historian, though he shall not have the marrow of the story. They never
seem to have been quite happy except when they were in a state of "utlagation," and it was
not only John against whom they rebelled, for one of them died on the Barons' side at Lewes.

The compiler, whoever he was--it has been said already and cannot be said too often, that every
recompiler in the Middle Ages felt it (like the man in that "foolish" writer, as some call
him, Plato) a sacred duty to add something to the common stock,--was not exactly a master of
his craft, but certainly showed admirable zeal. There never was a more curious macédoine than
this story. Part of it is, beyond all doubt, traditional history, with place-names all right,
though distorted by that curious inability to transpronounce or trans-spell which made the
French of the thirteenth century call Lincoln "Nicole," and their descendants of the seventeenth
call Kensington "Stintinton." Part is mere stock or common-form Romance, as when Foulques goes
to sea and has adventures with the usual dragons and their usual captive princesses. Part,
though not quite dependent on the general stock, is indebted to that of a particular kind,
as in the repeated catching of the King by the outlaws. But it is all more or less good reading;
and there are two episodes in the earlier part which (one of them especially) merit more detailed
account.

The first still has something of a general character about it. It is the story of a certain
Payn Peveril (for we meet many familiar names), who seems to have been a real person though
wrongly dated here, and has one of those nocturnal combats with demon knights, the best known
examples of which are those recounted in Marmion and its notes. Peveril's antagonist, however--or
rather the mask which the antagonist takes,--connects with the oldest legendary history of
the island, for he reanimates the body of Gogmagog, the famous Cornish giant, whom Corineus
slew. The diabolic Gogmagog, however, seems neither to have stayed in Cornwall nor gone to
Cambridgeshire, though (oddly enough the French editors do not seem to have noticed this) Payn
Peveril actually held fiefs in the neighbourhood of those exalted mountains called now by the
name of his foe. He had a hard fight; but luckily his arms were or with a cross édentée azure,
and this cross constantly turned the giant-devil's mace-strokes, while it also weakened him,
and he had besides to bear the strokes of Peveril's sword. So he gave in, remarking with as
much truth as King Padella in similar circumstances, that it was no good fighting under these
conditions. Then he tells a story of some length about the original Gogmagog and his treasure.
The secret of this he will not reveal, but tells Peveril that he will be lord of Blanche-lande
in Shropshire, and vanishes with the usual unpleasant accompaniment--tiel pueur dont Payn quida
devier. He left his mace, which the knight kept as a testimony to anybody who did not believe
the story.

This is not bad; but the other, which is either true or extraordinarily well invented, is far
finer, and, with some omissions, must be analysed and partly translated. Those who know the
singular beauty of Ludlow Town and Castle will be able to "stage" it to advantage, but this
is not absolutely necessary to its appreciation as a story.

The Peverils have died out by this time, and the honour and lands have gone by marriage to
Guarin of Metz, whose son, Foulques Fitzguarin or Warin, starts the subjects of the general
story. When the first Foulkes is eighteen, there is war between Sir Joce of Dinan (the name
then given to Ludlow) and the Lacies. In one of their skirmishes Sir Walter de Lacy is wounded
and captured, with a young knight of his party, Sir Ernault de Lyls. They have courteous treatment
in Ludlow Castle, and Ernault makes love to Marion de la Brière, a most gentle damsel, who
is the chief maid of the lady of the castle, and as such, of course, herself a lady. He promises
her marriage, and she provides him and his chief with means of escape. Whether Lisle (as his
name probably was) had at this time any treacherous intentions is not said or hinted. But Lacy,
naturally enough, resents his defeat, and watches for an opportunity of revanche; while Sir
Joce[lyn], on the other hand, takes his prisoners' escape philosophically, and does not seem
to make any enquiry into its cause. At first Lacy thinks of bringing over his Irish vassals
to aid him; but his English neighbours not unnaturally regard this step with dislike, and a
sort of peace is made between the enemies. A match is arranged between Sir Joce's daughter
Hawyse and Foulques Fitzwarin. Joce then quits Ludlow for a time, leaving, however, a strong
garrison there. Marion, who feigns illness, is also left. And now begins the tragic and striking
part of the story.

     The next day after Joce had gone, Marion sent a message to
     Sir Ernault de Lyls, begging him, for the great love that
     there was between them, not to forget the pledges they had
     exchanged, but to come quickly to speak with her at the
     castle of Dinan, because the lord and the lady and the bulk
     of the servants had gone to Hertilande--also to come to the
     same place by which he had left the castle. [He replies
     asking her to send him the exact height of the wall (which
     she unsuspiciously does by the usual means of a silk thread)
     and also the number of the household left. Then he seeks his
     chief, and tells him, with a mixture of some truth, that the
     object of the Hertilande journey is to gather strength
     against Lacy, capture his castle of Ewyas, and kill
     himself--intelligence which he falsely attributes to Marion.
     He has, of course, little difficulty in persuading Lacy to
     take the initiative. Sir Ernault is entrusted with a
     considerable mixed force, and comes by night to the
     castle.] The night was very dark, so that no sentinel saw
     them. Sir Ernault took a squire to carry the ladder of hide,
     and they went to the window where Marion was waiting for
     them. And when she saw them, never was any so joyful: so she
     dropped a cord right down and drew up the hide ladder and
     fastened it to a battlement. Then Ernault lightly scaled the
     tower, and took his love in his arms and kissed her: and
     they made great joy of each other and went into another room
     and supped, and then went to their couch, and left the
     ladder hanging.

     But the squire who had carried it went to the forces hidden
     in the garden and elsewhere, and took them to the ladder.
     And one hundred men, well armed, mounted by it and descended
     by the Pendover tower and went by the wall behind the
     chapel, and found the sentinel too heavy with sleep to
     defend himself: and the knights and the sergeants were cut
     to pieces crying for mercy in their beds. But Sir Ernault's
     companions were pitiless, and many a white sheet was dyed
     red with blood. And at last they tossed the watchman into
     the deep fosse and broke his neck.

     Now Marion de la Brière lay by her lover Sir Ernault and
     knew nothing of the treason he had done. But she heard a
     great noise in the castle and rose from her bed, and looked
     out and heard more clearly the cry of the massacred, and saw
     knights in white armour. Wherefore she understood that Sir
     Ernault had deceived and betrayed her, and began to weep
     bitterly and said, "Ah! that I was ever of mother born: for
     that by my crime I have lost my lord Sir Joce, who bred me
     so gently, his castle, and his good folk. Had I not been,
     nothing had been lost. Alas! that I ever believed this
     knight! for by his lies he has ruined me, and what is worse,
     my lord too." Then, all weeping, she drew Sir Ernault's
     sword and said, "Sir knight! awake, for you have brought
     strange company into my lord's castle without his leave. I
     brought in only you and your squire. And since you have
     deceived me you cannot rightly blame me if I give you your
     deserts--at least you shall never boast to any other
     mistress that by deceiving me you conquered the castle and
     the land of Dinan!" The knight started up, but Marion, with
     the sword she held drawn, ran him straight through the body,
     and he died at once. She herself, knowing that if she were
     taken, ill were the death she should die, and knowing not
     what to do, let herself fall from a window and broke her
     neck.

Now this, I venture to think, is not an ordinary story. Tales of treachery, onslaught, massacre,
are not rare in the Middle Ages, nor need we go as far as the Middle Ages for them. But the
almost heroic insouciance with which the traitor knight forgets everything except his immediate
enjoyment, and, provided he has his mistress at his will, concerns himself not in the slightest
degree as to what becomes of his companions, is not an every-day touch. Nor is the strong contrast
of the chambers of feast and dalliance--undisturbed, voluptuous, terrestrial-paradisaic--with
"the horror and the hell" in the courts below. Nor, last of all, the picture of the more than
half innocent Marion, night-garbed or ungarbed, but with sword drawn, first hanging over her
slumbering betrayer, then dealing the stroke of vengeance, and then falling--white against
the dark towers and the darker ravines at their base--to her self-doomed judgment.

[Sidenote: Something on these,]

Even more, however, than in individual points of interest or excitement, the general survey
of these two volumes gives matter for thought on our subject. Here are some half-dozen stories
or a little more. It is not much, some one may say, for the produce of two hundred years. But
what it lacks in volume (and that will be soon made up in French, while it is to be remembered
that we have practically nothing to match it in English) it makes up in variety. The peculiarity,
some would say the defect, of mediaeval literature--its sheep-like tendency to go in flocks--is
quite absent. Not more than two of the eight, Le Roi Flore and La Comtesse de Ponthieu, can
be said to be of the same class, even giving the word class a fairly elastic sense. They are
short prose Romans d'aventures. But Asseneth is a mystical allegory; Aucassin et Nicolette
is a sort of idyll, almost a lyric, in which the adventure is entirely subordinated to the
emotional and poetical interest; L'Empereur Constant, though with something of the Roman d'aventures
in it, has a tendency towards a moralitas ("there is no armour against fate") which never appears
in the pure adventurous kind; Troilus is an abridgment of a classical romance; and Foulques
Fitzwarin is, as has been said, an embryonic historical novel. Most, if not all, moreover,
give openings for, and one or two even proceed into, character- and even "problem"-writing
of the most advanced novel kind. In one or two also, no doubt, that aggression and encroachment
of allegory (which is one of the chief notes of these two centuries) makes itself felt, though
not to the extent which we shall notice in the next chapter. But almost everywhere a strong
nisus towards actual tale-telling and the rapid acquisition of proper "plant" for such telling,
become evident. In particular, conversation--a thing difficult to bring anyhow into verse-narrative,
and impossible there to keep up satisfactorily in various moods--begins to find its way. We
may turn, in the next chapter, to matter mostly or wholly in verse forms. But prose fiction
is started all the same.

[Sidenote: And on the short story generally.]

Before we do so, however, it may not be improper to point out that the short story undoubtedly
holds--of itself--a peculiar and almost prerogative place in the history and morphology or
the novel. After a long and rather unintelligible unpopularity in English--it never suffered
in this way in French--it has been, according to the way of the world, a little over-exalted
of late perhaps. It is undoubtedly a very difficult thing to do well, and it would be absurd
to pretend that any of the foregoing examples is done thoroughly well. The Italian novella
had to come and show the way.[79] But the short story, even of the rudimentary sort which we
have been considering, cannot help being a powerful schoolmaster to bring folk to good practice
in the larger kind. The faults and the merits of that kind, as such, appear in it after a fashion
which can hardly fail to be instructive and suggestive. The faults so frequently charged against
that "dear defunct" in our own tongue, the three-volume novel--the faults of long-windedness,
of otiose padding, of unnecessary episodes, etc., are almost mechanically or mathematically
impossible in the nouvelle. The long book provides pastime in its literal sense, and if it
is not obvious in the other the accustomed reader, unless outraged by some extraordinary dulness
or silences, goes on, partly like the Pickwickian horse because he can't well help it, and
partly because he hopes that something may turn up. In the case of the short he sees almost
at once whether it is going to have any interest, and if there is none such apparent he throws
it aside.

Moreover, as in almost every other case, the shortness is appropriate to exercise; while the
prose form does not encourage those terrible chevilles--repetitions of stock adjective and
substantive and verb and phrase generally--which are so common in verse, and especially in
octosyllabic verse. It is therefore in many ways healthy, and the space allotted to these early
examples of it will not, it is hoped, seem to any impartial reader excessive.

FOOTNOTES:

[75] The position of "origin" assigned already to the sacred matter of the Saint's Life may
perhaps be continued here as regards the Sermon. It was, as ought to be pretty generally known,
the not ungenial habit of the mediaeval preacher to tell stories freely. We have them in Ælfric's
and other English homilies long before there was any regular French prose; and we have, later,
large and numerous collections of them--compiled more or less expressly for the use of the
clergy--in Latin, English, and French. The Latin story is, in fact, very wide-ranging and sometimes
quite of the novel (at least nouvelle) kind, as any one may see in Wright's Latin Stories,
Percy Society, 1842.

[76] This is one, and one of the most glaring, of the bêtises which at some times have been
urged against Romance at large. They are not, as a matter of fact, very frequent; but their
occurrence certainly does show the essentially uncritical character of the time.

[77] For of course the knight did not tell the whole story.

[78] I.e. not sorry for having tried to kill him, but sorry that she had not done so.

[79] In prose. For the very important part played by the home verse fabliaux see next chapter.

CHAPTER V

ALLEGORY, FABLIAU, AND PROSE STORY OF COMMON LIFE

[Sidenote: The connection with prose fiction of allegory.]

It was shown in the last chapter that fiction, and even prose fiction, of very varied character
began to develop itself in French during the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries. By the fifteenth
the development was very much greater, and the "disrhyming" of romances, the beginnings of
which were very early, came to be a regular, not an occasional, process; while, by its latter
part, verse had become not the usual, but the exceptional vehicle of romance, and prose romances
of enormous length were popular. But earlier there had still been some obstacles in the way
of the prose novel proper. It was the period of the rise and reign of Allegory, and France,
preceptress of almost all Europe in most literary kinds, proved herself such in this with the
unparalleled example of the Roman de la Rose. But the Roman de la Rose was itself in verse--the
earlier part of it at least in real poetry--and most of its innumerable imitations were in
verse likewise. Moreover, though France again had been the first to receive and to turn to
use the riches of Eastern apologue, the most famous example of which is The Seven Wise Masters,
these rather serious matters do not seem to have especially commended themselves to the French
people. The place of composition of the most famous of all, the Gesta Romanorum, has been fairly
settled to be England, though the original language of composition is not likely to have been
other than Latin. At any rate, the style of serious allegory, in prose which should also be
literature, never really caught hold of the French taste.

Comic tale-telling, on the other hand, was germane to the very soul of the race, and had shown
itself in chanson and roman episodes at a very early date. But it had been so abundantly, and
in so popular a manner, associated with verse as a vehicle in those pieces, in the great beast-epic
of Renart, and above all in the fabliaux and in the earliest farces, that the connection was
hard to separate. None of the stories discussed in the last chapter has, it may be noticed,
the least comic touch or turn.

[Sidenote: And of the fabliaux.]

As we go on we must disengage ourselves more and more (though with occasional returns to it)
from attention to verse; and the two great compositions in that form, the Romance of the Rose
and the Story of the Fox, especially the former, hardly require much writing about to any educated
person. They are indeed most strongly contrasted examples of two modes of tale-telling, both
in a manner allegoric, but in other respects utterly different. The mere story of the Rose,
apart from the dreamy or satiric digressions and developments of its two parts and the elaborate
descriptions of the first, can be told in a page or two. An abstract of the various Renart
books, to give any idea of their real character, would, on the other hand, have to be nearly
as long as the less spun-out versions themselves. But the verse fabliaux can hardly be passed
over so lightly. Many of them formed the actual bases of the prose nouvelles that succeeded
them; not a few have found repeated presentation in literature; and, above all, they deserve
the immense praise of having deliberately introduced ordinary life, and not conventionalised
manners, into literary treatment. We have taken some pains to point out touches of that life
which are observable in Saint's Life and Romance, in chanson and early prose tale. But here
the case is altered. Almost everything is real; a good deal is what is called, in one of the
senses of a rather misused word, downright "realism."

Few people who have ever heard of the fabliaux can need to be told that this realism in their
case implies extreme freedom of treatment, extending very commonly to the undoubtedly coarse
and not seldom to the merely dirty. There are some--most of them well known by modern imitations
such as Leigh Hunt's "Palfrey"--which are quite guiltless in this respect; but the great majority
deal with the usual comic farrago of satire on women, husbands, monks, and other stock subjects
of raillery, all of which at the time invited "sculduddery." To translate some of the more
amusing, one would require not merely Chaucerian licence of treatment but Chaucerian peculiarities
of dialect in order to avoid mere vulgarity. Even Prior, who is our only modern English fabliau-writer
of real literary merit--the work of people like Hanbury Williams and Hall Stevenson being mostly
mere pornography--could hardly have managed such a piece as "Le Sot Chevalier"--a riotously
"improper" but excessively funny example--without running the risk of losing that recommendation
of being "a lady's book" with which Johnson rather capriciously tempered his more general undervaluation.
Sometimes, on the other hand, the joke is trivial enough, as in the English-French word-play
of anel for agnel (or -neau), which substitutes "donkey" for "lamb"; or, in the other, on the
comparison of a proper name, "Estula," with its component syllables "es tu là?" But the important
point on the whole is that, proper or improper, romantic or trivial, they all exhibit a constant
improvement in the mere art of telling; in discarding of the stock phrases, the long-winded
speeches, and the general paraphernalia of verse; in sticking and leading up smartly to the
point; in coining sharp, lively phrase; in the co-ordination of incident and the excision of
superfluities. Often they passed without difficulty into direct dramatic presentation in short
farces. But on the whole their obvious destiny was to be "unrhymed" and to make their appearance
in the famous form of the nouvelle or novella, in regard to which it is hard to say whether
Italy was most indebted to France for substance, or France to Italy for form.

[Sidenote: The rise of the nouvelle itself.]

It was not, however, merely the intense conservatism of the Middle Ages as to literary form
which kept back the prose nouvelle to such an extent that, as we have seen, only a few examples
survive from the two whole centuries between 1200 and 1400, while not one of these is of the
kind most characteristic ever since, or at least until quite recent days, of French tale-telling.
The French octosyllabic couplet, in which the fabliaux were without exception or with hardly
an exception composed, can, in a long story, become very tiresome because of its want of weight
and grasp, and the temptations it offers to a weak rhymester to stuff it with endless tags.
But for a short tale in deft hands it can apply its lightness in the best fashion, and put
its points with no lack of sting. The fabliau-writer or reciter was not required--one imagines
that he would have found scant audiences if he had tried it--to spin a long yarn; he had got
to come to his jokes and his business pretty rapidly; and, as La Fontaine has shown to thousands
who have never known--perhaps have never heard of--his early masters, he had an instrument
which would answer to his desires perfectly if only he knew how to finger it.

At the same time, both the lover of poetry and the lover of tale must acknowledge that, though
alliance between them is not in the least an unholy one, and has produced great and charming
children, the best of the poetry is always a sort of extra bonus or solace to the tale, and
the tale not unfrequently seems as if it could get on better without the poetry. The one can
only aspire somewhat irrelevantly; the other can never attain quite its full development. So
it was no ill day when the prose nouvelle came to its own in France.

[Sidenote: Les Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles.]

The first remarkable collection was the famous Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles, traditionally attributed
to Louis XI. when Dauphin and an exile in Brabant, with the assistance of friends and courtiers,
but more recently selected by critics that way minded as part of the baggage they have "commandeered"
for Antoine de la Salle. The question of authorship is of scarcely the slightest importance
to us; though the point last mentioned is worth mentioning, because we shall have to notice
the favoured candidate in this history again. There are certainly some of the hundred that
he might have written.

In the careless way in which literary history used to be dealt with, the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles
were held to be mere imitation of the Decameron and other Italian things. It is, of course,
much more than probable that the Italian novella had not a little to do with the precipitation
of the French nouvelle from its state of solution in the fabliau. But the person or persons
who, in imitating the Decameron, produced the Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles had a great deal more
to do--and did a great deal less--than this mere imitation of their original. As for a group
of included tales, the already-mentioned Seven Wise Masters[80] was known in France much before
Boccaccio's time. The title was indeed admittedly Italian, but such an obvious one as to require
no positive borrowing, and there is in the French book no story-framework like that of the
plague and the country-house visit; no cheerful personalities like Fiammetta or Dioneo make
not merely the intervals but the stories themselves alive with a special interest. Above all,
there is nothing like the extraordinary mixture of unity and variety--a pure gift of genius--which
succeeds in making the Decameron a real book as well as a bundle of narratives. Nor is there
anything like the literary brilliancy of the actual style and handling.

Nevertheless, Les Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles is a book of great interest and value, despite serious
defects due to its time generally and to its place in the history of fiction in particular.
Its obscenity, on which even Sir Walter Scott, the least censorious or prudish-prurient of
men, and with Southey, the great witness against false squeamishness, has been severe,[81]
is unfortunately undeniable. But it is to be doubted whether Sir Walter knew much of the fabliaux;
if he had he would have seen first, that this sort of thing had become an almost indispensable
fashion in the short story, and secondly, that there is here considerable improvement on the
fabliaux themselves, there being much less mere schoolboy crudity of dirty detail and phrase,
though the situations may remain the same. It suffers occasionally from the heavy and rhetorical
style which beset all European literature (except Italian, which itself did not wholly escape)
in the fifteenth century. But still one can see in it that improvement of narrative method
and diction which has been referred to: and occasionally, amid the crowd of tricky wives, tricked
husbands, too obliging and too hardly treated chambermaids, ribald priests and monks, and the
like, one comes across quite different things and persons, which are, as the phrase goes, almost
startlingly modern, with a mixture of the unmodern heightening the appeal. One of the most
striking of these--not very likely to be detected or suspected by a careless reader under its
sub-title of "La Demoiselle Cavalière," and by no means fully summarised in the quaint short
argument which is in all cases subjoined--may be briefly analysed.

[Sidenote: Analysis of "La Demoiselle Cavalière".]

In one of the great baronial households of Brabant there lived, after the usual condition of
gentle servitude, a youth named Gerard, who fell in love, after quite honourable and seemly
fashion, with Katherine, the daughter of the house--a fact which, naturally, they thought known
only to themselves, when, as naturally, everybody in the Court had become aware of it. "For
the better prevention of scandal," an immediate marriage being apparently out of the question
because of Gerard's inferiority in rank to his mistress, it is decided by the intervention
of friends that Gerard shall take his leave of the Brabantine "family." There is a parting
of the most laudable kind, in which Katherine bestows on her lover a ring, and a pledge that
she will never marry any one else, and he responds suitably. Then he sets out, and on arriving
at Bar has no difficulty in establishing himself in another great household. Katherine meanwhile
is beset with suitors of the best rank and fortune; but will have nothing to say to any of
them, till one day comes the formidable moment when a mediaeval father determines that his
daughter shall marry a certain person, will she nill she. But if mediaeval fatherhood was arbitrary,
mediaeval religion was supreme, and a demand to go on pilgrimage before an important change
of life could hardly be refused. In fact, the parents, taking the proposal as a mere preliminary
of obedience, consent joyfully, and offer a splendid suite of knights and damsels, "Nous lui
baillerons ung tel gentilhomme et une telle demoiselle, Ysabeau et Marguerite et Jehanneton."
But "no," says Mistress Katherine sagely. The road to St. Nicolas of Warengeville is not too
safe for people travelling with a costly outfit and a train of women. Let her, dressed as a
man, and a bastard uncle of hers (who is evidently the "Will Wimble" of the house) go quietly
on little horses, and it will save time, trouble, money, and danger. This the innocent parents
consider to show "great sense and good will," and the pair start in German dress--Katherine
as master, the uncle as man,--comfortably, too, as one may imagine (for uncles and nieces generally
get on well together, and the bend sinister need do no harm). They accomplish their pilgrimage
(a touch worth noticing in Katherine's character), and then only does she reveal her plan to
her companion. She tells him, not without a little bribery, that she wants to go and see Gerard
en Barrois, and to stay there for a short time; but he is to have no doubt of her keeping her
honour safe. He consents, partly with an eye to the future main chance (for she is her father's
sole heir), and partly because elle est si bonne qu'il n'y fault guère guet sur elle. Katherine,
taking the name of Conrad, finds the place, presents herself to the maître d'ostel, an ancient
squire, as desirous of entertainment or retainment, and is very handsomely received. After
dinner and due service done to the master, the old squire having heard that Katherine--Conrad--is
of Brabant, naturally introduces her countryman Gerard to her. He does not in the least recognise
her, and what strikes her as stranger, neither during their own dinner nor after says a word
about Brabant itself. Conrad is regularly admitted to Monseigneur's service, and, as a countryman,
is to share Gerard's room. They are perfectly good friends, go to see their horses together,
etc., but still the formerly passionate lover says not a word of Brabant or his Brabançonian
love, and poor Katherine concludes that she has been "put with forgotten sins"--not a bad phrase,
though it might be misconstrued. Being, however, as has been already seen, both a plucky girl
and a clever one, she determines to carry her part through. At last, when they go to their
respective couches in the same chamber, she herself faces the subject, and asks him if he knows
any persons in Brabant. "Oh yes." "Does he know" her own father, his former master? "Yes."
"They say," said she, "that there are pretty girls there: did you not know any?" "Precious
few," quoth he, "and I cared nothing about them. Do let me go to sleep! I am dead tired." "What!"
said she, "can you sleep when there is talk of pretty girls? You are not much of a lover."
But he slept "like a pig."

Nevertheless, Katherine does not give up hope, though the next day things are much the same,
Gerard talking of nothing but hounds and hawks, Conrad of pretty girls. At last the visitor
declares that he [she] does not care for the Barrois, and will go back to Brabant. "Why?" says
Gerard, "what better hunting, etc., can you get there than here?" "It has nothing," says Conrad,
"like the women of Brabant," adding, in reply to a jest of his, an ambiguous declaration that
she is actually in love. "Then why did you leave her?" says Gerard--about the first sensible
word he has uttered. She makes a fiery answer as to Love sometimes banishing from his servants
all sense and reason. But for the time the subject again drops. It is, however, reopened at
night, and some small pity comes on one for the recreant Gerard, inasmuch as she keeps him
awake by wailing about her love. At last she "draws" the sluggard to some extent. "Has not
he been in love, and does not he know all about it? But he was never such a fool as Conrad,
and he is sure that Conrad's lady is not such either." Another try, and she gets the acknowledgment
of treason out of him. He tells her (what she knows too well) how he loved a noble damsel in
Brabant and had to leave her, and it really annoyed him for a few days (it is good to imagine
Katherine's face, even in the dark, at this), though of course he never lost his appetite or
committed any folly of that sort. But he knew his Ovid (he tells her), and as soon as he came
to Bar he made love to a pretty girl there who was quite amiable to him, and now he never thinks
of the other. There is more talk, and Katherine insists that he shall introduce her to his
new lady, that she may try this remedy of counter-love. He consents with perfect nonchalance,
and is at last allowed to go to sleep. No details are given of the conversation with the rival,[82]
except the bitterness of Katherine's heart at the fact, and at seeing the ring she had given
to Gerard on his hand. This she actually has the pluck to play with, and, securing it, to slip
on her own. But the man being obviously past praying or caring for, she arranges with her uncle
to depart early in the morning, writes a letter telling Gerard of the whole thing and renouncing
him, passes the night silently, leaves the letter, rises quietly and early, and departs, yet
"weeping tenderly," not for the man, but for her own lost love. The pair reach home safely,
and says the tale-teller, with an agreeable dryness often found here,[83] "There were some
who asked them the adventures of their journey, but whatever they answered they did not boast
of the chief one." The conclusion is so spirited and at the very end so scenic and even modern
(or, much better, universal), that it must be given in direct translation, with a few chevilles
(or pieces of padding) left out.

     As for Gerard, when he woke and found his companion gone, he
     thought it must be late, jumped up in haste, and seized his
     jerkin: but, as he thrust his hand in one of the sleeves,
     there dropped out a letter which surprised him, for he
     certainly did not remember having put any there. He picked
     it up and saw it subscribed "To the disloyal Gerard." If he
     was startled before he was more so now: but he opened it at
     last, and saw the signature "Katherine, surnamed Conrad."
     Even yet he knew not what to think of it: but as he read the
     blood rose to his face and his heart fluttered, and his
     whole manner was changed. Still, he read it through, and
     learnt how his disloyalty had come to the knowledge of her
     who had wished him so well; and that not at second hand, but
     from himself to herself; what trouble she had taken to find
     him; and how (which stung him most) he had slept three
     nights in her company after all. [After thinking some time
     he decides to follow her, and arrives in Brabant on the very
     day of her marriage: for she has, in the circumstances, kept
     her word to her parents.] Then he tried to go up to her and
     salute her, and make some wretched excuse for his fault. But
     he was not allowed, for she turned her shoulder on him, and
     he could never manage to speak to her all through the day.
     He even stepped forward once to lead her out to dance, but
     she refused him flatly before all the company, many of whom
     heard her. And immediately afterwards another gentleman
     came, who bade the minstrels strike up, and she stepped down
     from her dais in full view of Gerard and went to dance with
     him. And so did the disloyal lover lose his lady.

Now whether this, as the book asserts and as is not at all improbable, is a true story or not,
cannot matter to any sensible person one farthing. What does matter is that it is a by no means
badly told story, that it resorts to no illegitimate sources or seasonings of interest, and
that it offers opportunities for amplification and "diversity of administration" to almost
any extent. One can fancy it told, at much greater length and with more or less adjustment
to different times, by great novelists of the most widely varying classes--by Scott and by
Dumas, by Charles Reade and by George Meredith, to mention no living writer, as might easily
be done. Both hero and heroine have more character between them than you could extract out
of fifty of the usual nouvelles, and each lends him or herself to endless further development.
Not a few of the separate scenes--the good parents fussing over their daughter's intended cavalcade
and her thrifty and ingenious objections; the journey of the uncle and niece (any of the first
three of the great novelists mentioned above would have made chapters of this); the dramatic
and risky passages at the castle en Barrois; the contrast of Katherine's passion and Gerard's
sluggishness; and the fashion in which this latter at once brings on the lout's defeat and
saves the lady from danger at his hands--all this is novel-matter of almost the first class
as regards incident, with no lack of character-openings to boot. Nor could anybody want a better
"curtain" than the falling back of the scorned and baffled false lover, the concert of the
minstrels, and Katherine's stately stepping down the dais to complete the insult by dancing
with another.

[Sidenote: The interest of named personages.]

One more general point may be noticed in connection with the superiority of this story, and
that is the accession of interest, at first sight trivial but really important, which comes
from the naming of the personages. Both in the earlier fabliaux and in these Nouvelles themselves,
by far the larger number of the actors are simply called by class-names--a "knight," a "damsel,"
a "merchant and his wife," a "priest," a "varlet." It may seem childish to allow the mere addition
of a couple of names like Gerard and Katherine to make this difference of interest, but the
fact is that there is a good deal of childishness in human nature, and especially in the enjoyment
of story.[84] Only by very slow degrees were writers of fiction to learn the great difference
that small matters of this kind make, and how the mere "anecdote," the dry argument or abstract
of incident, can be amplified, varied, transformed from a remainder biscuit to an abundant
and almost inexhaustible feast, by touches of individual character, setting of interiors, details
of conversation, description, nomenclature, and what not. Quite early, as we saw in the case
of the St. Alexis, persons of narrative gift stumbled upon things of the kind; but it was only
after long delays, and hints of many half-conscious kinds, that they became part of recognised
craft. Even with such a master of that craft as Boccaccio before them, not all the Italian
novelists could catch the pattern; and the French, perhaps naturally enough, were slower still.

It must be remembered, in judging the fifteenth-century French tale, that just as it was to
some extent hampered by the long continuing popularity of the verse fabliau on the one hand,
so it was, as we may say, "bled" on the other by the growing popularity of the farce, which
consists of exactly the same material as the fabliaux and the nouvelles themselves, with the
additional liveliness of voice and action. These later additions imposed not the smallest restraint
on the license which had characterised and was to characterise the plain verse and prose forms,[85]
and no doubt the result was all the more welcome to the taste of the time. But for that very
reason the appetites and tastes, which could glut themselves with the full dramatic representation,
might care less for the mere narrative, on the famous principle of segnius irritant. Nor was
the political state of France during the time very favourable to letters. There are, however,
two separate fifteenth-century stories which deserve notice. One of them is the rather famous,
though probably not widely read, Petit Jehan de Saintré of the already mentioned Antoine de
la Salle, a certain work of his this time. The other is the pleasant, though to Englishmen
intentionally uncomplimentary, Jehan de Paris of an unknown writer. La Salle's book must belong
to the later middle of the century, though, if he died in or about 1461, not to a very late
middle. Jehan de Paris has been put by M. de Montaiglon nearer the close.

[Sidenote: Petit Jehan de Saintré.]

The history of "little John of Saintré and the Lady of the Beautiful Cousins"[86] has not struck
all judges, even all English judges,[87] in the same way. Some have thought it mawkish, rhetorical,
clumsily imitative of the manners of dead chivalry, and the like. Others, admitting it to be
a late and "literary" presentation of the stately society it describes, rank it much higher
as such. Its author was a bitter enough satirist if he wrote, as he most probably did, the
famous Quinze Joyes de Mariage, one of the most unmitigated pieces of unsweetened irony--next
to A Tale of a Tub and Jonathan Wild--to be found in literature; but not couched in narrative
form. The same quality appears of course in the still more famous farce of Pathelin, which
few good judges deny very stoutly to him, though there is little positive evidence. In the
Cent Nouvelles Nouvelles again, as has been said, he certainly had a hand, and possibly a great
hand, as well as perhaps elsewhere. The satiric touch appears even in Petit Jehan itself; for,
after all the gracious courtship of the earlier part, the dame des belles Cousines, during
an absence of her lover on service, falls a by no means, as it would seem, very reluctant victim
to the vulgar viciousness of a rich churchman, just like the innominatas of the nouvelles themselves.
But the earlier part is gracious--a word specifically and intensively applicable to it. It
may be a little unreal; does not the secondary form and sense which has been fastened upon
reality--"realism"--show that, in the opinion of many people at least, reality is not gracious?
The Foozles of this world who "despise all your kickshaws," the Dry-as-dusts who point out--not
in the least seeing the real drift of their argument--that the fifteenth century was, in the
greater part of Europe if not the whole, at a new point of morals and manners, may urge these
things. But the best part of Petit Jehan remains a gracious sort of dream for gracious dreamers--a
picture of a kind of Utopia of Feminism, when Feminism did not mean votes or anything foolish,
but only adoration of the adorable.

[Sidenote: Jehan de Paris.]

It would be impossible to find or even to imagine anything more different than the not much
later Jehan de Paris, an evident folk-tale[88] of uncertain origin, which very quickly became
a popular chapbook and lasted long in that condition. Although we Englishmen provide the fun,
he is certainly no Englishman who resents the fact or fails to enjoy the result, not to mention
that we "could tell them tales with other endings." It is, for instance, not quite historically
demonstrable that in crossing a river many English horsemen would be likely to be drowned,
while all the French cavaliers got safe through; nor that, in scouring a country, the Frenchmen
would score all the game and all the best beasts and poultry, while the English bag would consist
of starvelings and offal. But no matter for that. The actual tale tells (with the agreeable
introductory "How," which has not yet lost its zest for the right palates in chapter-headings)
the story of a King and Queen of Spain who have, in recompense for help given them against
turbulent barons, contracted their daughter to the King of France for his son; how they forgot
this later, and betrothed her to the King of England, and how that King set out with his train,
through France itself, to fetch his bride. As soon as the Dauphin (now king, for his father
is dead) hears of their coming, he disguises himself under the name of John of Paris, with
a splendid train of followers, much more gorgeous than the English (the "foggy islander" of
course cannot make this out), and sets of quiproquos follow, in each of which the Englishman
is outdone and baffled generally, till at last "John of Paris" enters Burgos in state, reveals
himself, and carries off the Englishman's bride, with the natural effect of making him bien
marry et courroucé, though no fight comes off.

The tale is smartly and succinctly told (there are not many more than a hundred of the small-sized
and large-printed pages of the Collection Jannet-Picard), and there is a zest and verve about
it which ought to please any mood that is for the time in harmony with the much talked of Comic
Spirit. But it certainly does not lose attraction, and it as certainly does not fail to lend
some, when it is considered side by side with the other "John," especially if both are again
compared with the certainly not earlier and probably later "Prose Romances" in English, to
which that rather ambitious title was given by Mr. Thoms. There is nothing in these in the
very remotest degree resembling Jehan de Saintré: you must get on to the Arcadia or at least
to Euphues before you come anywhere near that. There is, on the other hand, in our stuff, a
sort of distant community of spirit with Jehan de Paris; but it works in an altogether lower
and less imaginative sphere and fashion; no sense of art being present, and very little of
craft. It is astonishing that a language which had had, if only in verse, such an unsurpassable
tale-teller as Chaucer, should have been so backward. But then the whole conditions of the
fifteenth century, especially in England, become only the more puzzling the longer one studies
them. Even in France, it will be observed, the output of Tale is by no means large.[89] Nor
shall we find it very greatly increased even in the next age, though there is one masterpiece
in quantity as well as quality. But, for our purpose, the Cent Nouvelles and the two separate
pieces just discussed continue, and in more and more striking manner, to show the vast possibilities
when the way shall have been clearly found and the feet of the wayfarers firmly set in it.

FOOTNOTES:

[80] Prose as well as verse.

[81] In the very delightful imaginative introduction to Quentin Durward.

[82] This is one of the points which a modern novelist would certainly have seized; but whether
to advantage or not is another question.

[83] And of course recognised by the "Antonians" as peculiar to La Salle.

[84] Only contrast "Tom, Tom, the piper's son," with "There was once a piper's son," or think
how comparatively uninteresting the enormities of another hero or not-hero would have been
if he had been anonymous instead of being called "Georgy-Porgy Pudding-and-Pie!" ["Puddenum"
is, or used to be, the preferred if corrupt nursery form.] In more elaborate and adorned narrative
the influence, not merely of the name but of the beautiful name, comes in, and that of the
name itself remains. In that tragic story of Ludlow Castle which was given above (Chap. iv.
pp. 84-6), something, for the present writer at least, would have been lost if the traitor
had been merely "a knight" instead of Sir Ernault Lisle and the victim merely "a damsel" instead
of Marion de la Brière. And would the bocca bacciata of Alaciel itself be as gracious if it
was merely anybody's?

[85] The amazing farce-insets of Lyndsay's Satire of the Three Estates could be paralleled,
and were no doubt suggested, by French farces of older date.

[86] Nobody seems to be entirely certain what this odd title means: though there have been
some obvious and some far-fetched guesses. But it has, like other rhétoriqueur names of 1450-1550,
such as "Traverser of Perilous Ways" and the like, a kind of fantastic attraction for some people.

[87] If I remember rightly, my friend the late R. L. Stevenson was wont to abuse it.

[88] As such, the substance is found in other languages. But the French itself has been traced
by some to an earlier roman d'aventure, Blonde d'Oxford, in which an English heiress is carried
off by a French squire.

[89] Perhaps one should guard against a possible repetition of a not uncommon critical mistake--that
of inferring ignorance from absence of mention. I am quite aware that no exhaustive catalogue
of known French stories in prose has been given; and the failure to supplement a former glance
at the late prose versions of romance is intentional. They have nothing new in romance-, still
less in novel-character for us. The Bibliothèque Elzévirienne volumes have been dwelt upon,
not as a corpus, but because they appear to represent, without any unfair manipulation or "window-dressing,"
the kind at the time with a remarkable combination of interest both individual and contrasted.

CHAPTER VI

RABELAIS

[Sidenote: The anonymity, or at least impersonality, of authorship up to this point.]

Although--as it is hoped the foregoing chapters may have shown--the amount of energy and of
talent, thrown into the department of French fiction, had from almost the earliest times been
remarkably great; although French, if not France, had been the mother of almost all literatures
in things fictitious, it can hardly be said that any writer of undeniable genius, entitling
him to the first class in the Art of Letters, had shown himself therein. A hundred chansons
de geste and as many romances d'aventures had displayed dispersed talent of a very high kind,
and in the best of them, as the present writer has tried to point out, a very "extensive assortment"
of the various attractions of the novel had from time to time made its appearance. But this
again had been done "dispersedly," as the Shakespearean stage-direction has it. The story is
sometimes well told, but the telling is constantly interrupted; the great art of novel-conversation
is, as yet, almost unborn; the descriptions, though sometimes very striking, as in the case
of those given from Partenopeus--the fatal revelation of Melior's charms and the galloping
of the maddened palfrey along the seashore, with the dark monster-haunted wood behind and the
bright moonlit sea and galley in front--are more often stock and lifeless; while, above all,
the characters are rarely more than sketched, if even that. The one exception--the great Arthurian
history, as liberated from its Graal-legend swaddling clothes, and its kite-and-crow battles
with Saxons and rival knights, but retaining the mystical motive of the Graal-search itself
and the adventures of Lancelot and other knights; combining all this into a single story, and
storing it with incident for a time, and bringing it to a full and final tragic close by the
loves of Lancelot himself and Guinevere--this great achievement, it has been frankly confessed,
is so much muddled and distracted with episode which becomes positive digression, that some
have even dismissed its pretensions to be a whole. Even those who reject this dismissal are
not at one as to any single author of the conception, still less of the execution. The present
writer has stated his humble, but ever more and more firm conviction that Chrestien did not
do it and could not have done it; others of more note, perhaps of closer acquaintance with
MS. sources, but also perhaps not uniting knowledge of the subject with more experience in
general literary criticism and in special study of the Novel, will not allow Mapes to have done it.

The Roman de la Rose, beautiful as is its earlier part and ingenious as is (sometimes) its
later, is, as a story, of the thinnest kind. The Roman de Renart is a vast collection of small
stories of a special class, and the Fabliaux are almost a vaster collection (if you do not
exclude the "waterings out" of Renart) of kinds more general. There is abundance of amusement
and some charm; but nowhere are we much beyond very simple forms of fiction itself. None of
the writers of nouvelles, except Antoine de la Salle, can be said to be a known personality.

[Sidenote: Rabelais unquestionably the first very great known writer.]

There has always been a good deal of controversy about Rabelais, not all of which perhaps can
we escape, though it certainly will not be invited, and we have no very extensive knowledge
of his life. But we have some: and that, as a man of genius, he is superior to any single person
named and known in earlier French literature, can hardly be contested by any one who is neither
a silly paradoxer nor a mere dullard, nor affected by some extra-literary prejudice--religious,
moral, or whatever it may be. But perhaps not every one who would admit the greatness of Master
Francis as a man of letters, his possession not merely of consummate wit, but of that precious
thing, so much rarer in French, actual humour; his wonderful influence on the future word-book
and phrase-book of his own language, nay, not every one who would go almost the whole length
of the most uncompromising Pantagruelist, and would allow him profound wisdom, high aspirations
for humanity, something of a complete world-philosophy--would at once admit him as a very great
novelist. For my own part I have no hesitation in doing so, and to make the admission good
must be the object of this chapter.

[Sidenote: But the first great novelist?]

It may almost be said that his very excellence in this way has "stood in its own light." The
readableness of Rabelais is extraordinary. The present writer, after for years making of him
almost an Addison according to Johnson's prescription, fell, by mere accident and occupation
with other matters, into a way of not reading him, except for purposes of mere literary reference,
during a long time. On three different occasions more recently, one ten or a dozen years ago,
one six or seven, and the third for the purposes of this very book, he put himself again under
the Master, and read him right through. It is difficult to imagine a severer test, and I am
bound to confess (though I am not bound to specify) that in some, though not many, instances
I have found famous and once favourite classics fail to stand it. Not so Master Francis. I
do not think that I ever read him with greater interest than at this last time. Indeed I doubt
whether I have ever felt the catholicon--the pervading virtue of his book--quite so strongly
as I have in the days preceding that on which I write these words.

[Sidenote: Some objections considered.]

Of course Momus may find handles--he generally can. "You are suffering from morbid senile relapse
into puerile enjoyment of indecency," he or Mrs. Momus (whom later ages have called Grundy)
may be kind enough to say. "You were a member of the Rabelais Club of pleasant memory, and
think it necessary to live up to your earlier profession." "You have said this in print before
[I have not exactly done so] and are bound to stick to it," etc. etc. etc., down to that final,
"You are a bad critic, and it doesn't matter what you say," which certainly, in a sense, does
leave nothing to be replied. But whether this is because the accused is guilty, or because
the Court does not call upon him, is a question which one may leave to others.

Laying it down, then, as a point of fact that Rabelais has this curious "holding" quality,
whence does he get it? As everybody ought to know, many good people, admitting the fact, have,
as he would himself have said, gone about with lanterns to seek for out-of-the-way reasons
and qualities; while some people, not so good, but also accepting the fact in a way, have grasped
at the above-mentioned indecency itself for an explanation. This trick requires little effort
to kick it into its native gutter. The greater proportion of the "Indexable" part of Rabelais
is mere nastiness, which is only attractive to a very small minority of persons at any age,
while to expert readers it is but a time-deodorised dunghill by the roadside, not beautiful,
but negligible. Of the other part of this kind--the "naughty" part which is not nasty and may
be somewhat nice--there is, when you come to consider it dispassionately, not really so very
much, and it is seldom used in a seductive fashion. It may tickle, but it does not excite;
may create laughter, but never passion or even desire. Therefore it cannot be this which "holds"
any reader but a mere novice or a glutton for garbage.

Less easily dismissible, but, it will seem, not less inadequate is the alleged "key"-interest
of the book. Of course there are some people, and more than a person who wishes to think nobly
of humanity might desire to find, who seem never to be tired of identifying Grandgousier, Gargantua,
and Pantagruel himself with French kings to whom they bear not the slightest resemblance; of
obliging us English by supposing us to be the Macréons (who seem to have been very respectable
people, but who inhabit an island singularly unlike England in or anywhere near the time of
Rabelais), and so on. But to a much larger number of persons--and one dares say to all true
Pantagruelists--these interpretations are either things that the Master himself would have
delighted to satirise, and would have satirised unsurpassably, or, at best, mere superfluities
and supererogations. At any rate there is no possibility of finding in them the magic spell--the
"Fastrada's ring," which binds youth and age alike to the unique "Alcofribas Nasier."

One must, it is supposed, increase the dose of respect (though some people, in some cases,
find it hard) when considering a further quality or property--the Riddle-attraction of Rabelais.
This riddle-attraction--or attractions, for it might be better spoken of in a very large plural--is
of course quite undeniable in itself. There are as many second intentions in the ordinary sense,
apparently obvious in Gargantua and Pantagruel, as there can have been in the scholastic among
the dietary of La Quinte, or of any possible Chimaera buzzing at greatest intensity in the
extremest vacuum. On the other hand, some of us are haunted by the consideration, "Was there
ever any human being more likely than François Rabelais to echo (with the slightest change)
the words ascribed to Divinity in that famous piece which is taken, on good external and ultra-internal
evidence, to be Swift's?

    I to such block-heads set my wit!
    I [pose] such fools! Go, go--you're bit."

And there is not wanting, amongst us sceptics, a further section who are quite certain that
a not inconsiderable proportion of the book is not allegory at all, but sheer "bamming," while
others again would transfer the hackneyed death-bed saying from author to book, and say that
the whole Chronicle is "a great perhaps."

[Sidenote: And dismissed as affecting the general attraction of the book.]

These things--or at least elaborate discussions of them--lie somewhat, though not so far as
may at first seem, outside our proper business. It must, however, once more be evident, from
the facts and very nature of the case, that the puzzles, the riddles, the allegories cannot
constitute the main and, so to speak, "universal" part of the attraction of the book. They
may be a seasoning to some, a solid cut-and-come-again to others, but certainly not to the
majority. Even in Gulliver--the Great Book's almost, perhaps quite, as great descendant--these
attractions, though more universal in appeal and less evasively presented, certainly do not
hold any such position. The fact is that both Rabelais and Swift were consummate tellers of
a story, and (especially if you take the Polite Conversation into Swift's claim) consummate
originators of the Novel or larger story, with more than "incidental" attraction itself. But
we are not now busied with Swift.

[Sidenote: Which lies, largely if not wholly, in its story-interest.]

Not much serious objection will probably be taken to the place allotted to Master Francis as
a tale-teller pure and simple, although it cannot be said that all his innumerable critics
and commentators have laid sufficient stress on this. From the uncomfortable birth of Gargantua
to the triumphant recessional scene from the Oracle of the Bottle, proofs are to be found in
every book, every chapter almost, and indeed almost every page; and a little more detail may
be given on this head later. But the presentation of Rabelais as a novelist-before-novels may
cause more demur, and even suggest the presence of the now hopelessly discredited thing--paradox
itself. Of course, if anybody requires regular plot as a necessary constituent, only paradox
could contend for that. It has been contended--and rightly enough--that in the general scheme
and the two (or if you take in Grandgousier, three) generations of histories of the good giants,
Rabelais is doing nothing more than parody--is, indeed, doing little more than simply follow
the traditions of Romance--Amiles and Jourdains, Guy and Rembrun, and many others. But some
of us regard plot as at best a full-dress garment, at the absence of which the good-natured
God or Muse of fiction is quite willing to wink. Character, if seldom elaborately presented,
except in the case of Panurge, is showered, in scraps and sketches, all over the book, and
description and dialogue abound.

[Sidenote: Contrast of the Moyen de Parvenir.]

But it is not on such beggarly special pleading as this that the claim shall be founded. It
must rest on the unceasing, or practically unceasing, impetus of story-interest which carries
the reader through. A remarkably useful contrast-parallel in this respect, may be found in
that strange book, the Moyen de Parvenir. I am of those who think that it had something to
do with Rabelais, that there is some of his stuff in it, even that he may have actually planned
something like it. But the "make-up" is not more inferior in merit to that of Gargantua and
Pantagruel than it is different in kind. The Moyen de Parvenir is full of separate stories
of the fabliau kind, often amusing and well told, though exceedingly gross as a rule. These
stories are "set" in a framework of promiscuous conversation, in which a large number of great
real persons, ancient and modern, and a smaller one of invented characters, or rather names,
take part. Most of this, though not quite all, is mere fatrasie, if not even mere jargon: and
though there are glimmerings of something more than sense, they are, with evident deliberation,
enveloped in clouds of nonsense. The thing is not a whole at all, and the stories have as little
to do with each other or with any general drift as if they were professedly--what they are
practically--a bundle of fabliaux or nouvelles. As always happens in such cases--and as the
author, whether he was Béroalde or another, whether or not he worked on a canvas greater than
he could fill, or tried to patch together things too good for him, no doubt intended--attempts
have been made to interpret the puzzle here also; but they are quite obviously vain.

[Sidenote: A general theme possible.]

[Sidenote: A reference--to be taken up later--to the last Book.]

Such a sentence, however, cannot be pronounced in any such degree or measure on the similar
attempts in the case of Gargantua and Pantagruel; for a reason which some readers may find
unexpected. The unbroken vigour--unbroken even by the obstacles which it throws in its own
way, like the Catalogue of the Library of Saint-Victor and the burlesque lists of adjectives,
etc., which fill up whole chapters--with which the story or string of stories is carried on,
may naturally suggest that there is a story or at least a theme. It is a sort of quaint alteration
or catachresis of Possunt quia posse videntur. There must be a general theme, because the writer
is so obviously able to handle any theme he chooses. It may be wiser--it certainly seems so
to the present writer--to disbelieve in anything but occasional sallies--episodes, as it were,
or even digressions--of political, religious, moral, social and other satire. It is, on the
other hand, a most important thing to admit the undoubted presence--now and then, and not unfrequently--of
a deliberate dropping of the satiric and burlesque mask. This supplies the presentation of
the serious, kindly, and human personality of the three princes (Grandgousier, Gargantua, and
Pantagruel); this the schemes of education (giving so large a proportion of the small bulk
of not-nonsense written on that matter). Above all, this permits, to one taste at least, the
exquisite last Book, presentation of La Quinte and the fresh roses in her hand, the originality
of which, not only in the whole book in one sense, but in the particular Book in the other,
is, to that taste, and such argumentative powers as accompany it, an almost absolute proof
of that Book's genuineness. For if it had been by another who, unlike Rabelais, had a special
tendency towards such graceful imagination, he could hardly have refrained from showing this
elsewhere in this long book.[90]

[Sidenote: Running survey of the whole.]

But however this may be, it is certain that a critical reader, especially when he has reason
to be startled by the external, if not actually extrinsic, oddities of and excesses of the
book, will be justified in allowing--it may almost be said that he is likely to allow--the
extraordinary volume of concatenated fictitious interest in the whole book or books. The usual
and obvious "catenations" are indeed almost ostentatiously wanting. The absence of any real
plot has been sufficiently commented on, with the temptations conferred by it to substitute
a fancied unity of purpose. The birth, and what we may call the two educations, of Gargantua;
the repetition, with sufficient differences, of the same plan in the opening of Pantagruel;
the appearance of Panurge and the campaign against the Dipsodes; the great marriage debate;
and the voyage to the Oracle of the Bottle, are connected merely in "chronicle" fashion. The
character-links are hardly stronger, for though Friar John does play a more or less important
part from almost the beginning to quite the end, Panurge, the most important and remarkable
single figure, does not appear for a considerable time, and the rest are shadows. The scene
is only in one or two chapters nominally placed in Nowhere; but as a whole it is Nowhere Else,
or rather a bewildering mixture of topical assignments in a very small part of France, and
allegorical or fantastic descriptions of a multitude of Utopias. And yet, once more, it is
a whole story. As you read it you almost forget what lies behind, you quite forget the breaches
of continuity, and press on to what is before, almost as eagerly, if not quite in the same
fashion, as if the incidents and the figures were not less exciting than those of Vingt Ans
Après. Let us hope it may not be excessive to expend a few pages on a sketch of this strange
story that is no story, with, it may be, some fragments of translation or paraphrase (for,
as even his greatest translator, Urquhart, found, a certain amount of his own Fay ce que voudras
is necessary with Rabelais) here and there.

[Sidenote: Gargantua.]

Master Francis does not exactly plunge into the middle of things; but he spends comparatively
little time on the preliminaries of the ironical Prologue to the "very illustrious drinkers,"
on the traditionally necessary but equally ironical genealogy of the hero, on the elaborate
verse amphigouri of the Fanfreluches Antidotées, and on the mock scientific discussion of extraordinarily
prolonged periods of pregnancy. Without these, however, he will not come to the stupendous
banquet of tripe (properly washed down, and followed by pleasant revel on the "echoing green")
which determined the advent of Gargantua into the world, which enabled Grandgousier, more fortunate
than his son on a future occasion, to display his amiability as a husband and a father unchecked
by any great sorrow, and which was, as it were, crowned and sealed by that son's first utterance--no
miserable and ordinary infant's wail, but the stentorian barytone "A boire!" which rings through
the book till it passes in the sharper, but not less delectable treble of "Trinq!" And then
comes a brief piece, not narrative, but as characteristic perhaps of what we may call the ironical
moral of the narrative as any--a grave remonstrance with those who will not believe in ceste
estrange nativité.

[Sidenote: The birth and education.]

     I doubt me ye believe not this strange birth assuredly. If
     ye disbelieve, I care not; but a respectable man--a man of
     good sense--always believes what people tell him and what
     he finds written. Does not Solomon say (Prov. xiv.), "The
     innocent [simple] believeth every word" etc.? And St. Paul
     (1 Cor. xiii.), "Charity believeth all things"? Why should
     you not believe it? "Because," says you, "there is no
     probability[91] in it." I tell you that for this very and
     only reason you ought to believe with a perfect faith. For
     the Sorbonists say that faith is the evidence of things of
     no probability.[92] Is it against our law or our faith?
     against reason? against the Sacred Scriptures?[93] For my
     part I can find nothing written in the Holy Bible which is
     contrary thereto. But if the Will of God had been so, would
     you say that He could not have done it? Oh for grace' sake
     do not make a mess of your wits in such vain thoughts. For I
     tell you that nothing is impossible with God.

And Divinity being done with, the Classics and pure fantasy are drawn upon; the incredulous
being finally knocked down by a citation from Pliny, and a polite request not to bother any more.

This is, of course, the kind of passage which has been brought against Rabelais, as similar
ones have been brought against Swift, to justify charges of impiety. But, again, it is not
necessary to bother (tabuster) about that. Any one who cannot see that it is the foolish use
of reverend things and not the things themselves that the satire hits, is hardly worth argument.
But there is no doubt that this sort of mortar, framework, menstruum, canvas, or whatever way
it may be best metaphored, helps the apparent continuity of the work marvellously, leaving,
as it were, no rough edges or ill-mended joints. It is, to use an admirable phrase of Mr. Balfour's
about a greater matter, "the logical glue which holds together and makes intelligible the multiplicity"
of the narrative units, or perhaps instead of "intelligible" one should here say "appreciable."

Sometimes the "glue" of ironic comment rather saturates these units of narrative than surrounds
or interjoins them, and this is the case with what follows. The infantine peculiarities of
Gargantua; his dress and the mystery of its blue and white colours (the blue of heaven and
the white of the joy of earth); how his governesses and he played together; what smart answers
he made; how he became early both a poet and an experimental philosopher--all this is recounted
with a marvellous mixture of wisdom and burlesque, though sometimes, no doubt, with rather
too much of haut goût seasoning. Then comes the, in Renaissance books, inevitable "Education"
section, and it has been already noted briefly how different this is from most of its group
(the corresponding part of Euphues may be suggested for comparison). Even Rabelais does not
escape the main danger--he neglects a little to listen to the wisest voice, "Can't you let
him alone?" But the contrasts in the case of Gargantua, the general tenor (that good prince
profiting by his own experience for his son's benefit) in that of Pantagruel, are not too "improving,"
and are made by their historian's "own sauce" exceedingly piquant. Much as has been written
on the subject, it is not easy to be quite certain how far the "Old" Learning was fairly treated
by the "New." Rabelais and Erasmus and the authors of the Epistolae Obscurorum Virorum are
such a tremendous overmatch for any one on the other side, that the most judicial as well as
judicious of critics must be rather puzzled as to the real merits of the case. But luckily
there is no need to decide. Enjoyment, not decision, is the point, and there is no difficulty
in that. How Gargantua was transferred from the learned but somewhat, as the vulgar would say,
"stick-in-the-mud" tutorship of Master Thubal Holofernes, who spent eighteen years in reading
De Modis Significandi with his pupil, and Master Jobelin Bridé, who has "become a name"--not
exactly of honour; how he was transferred to the less antiquated guidance of Ponocrates, and
set out for Paris on the famous dappled mare, whose exploits in field and town were so alarming,
and who had the bells of Notre Dame hung round her neck, till they were replaced rather after
than because of the remonstrance of Master Janotus de Bragmardo; how for a time, and under
Sorbonic direction, he wasted that time in short and useless study, with long intervals of
card-playing, sleeping, etc. etc., and of course a great deal of eating and drinking, "not
as he ought and as he ought not"--all this leads up to the moment when the sage Ponocrates
takes him again in hand, and institutes a strenuous drill in manners, studies, manly exercises,
and the like, ending with one of those extraordinary flashes of perfect style and noble meaning
which it pleases Rabelais to emit from what some call his "dunghill" and others his "marine-store."

     Also they prayed to God the Creator, adoring Him, and
     solemnly repledging to Him their faith, and glorifying Him
     for His boundless goodness; while, giving Him thanks for all
     time past, they commended themselves to His divine mercy for
     all the future. This done, they turned to their rest.

[Sidenote: The war.]

It is only after this serious training that the first important division of what may be called
the action begins--the "War of the Cakes," in which certain outrageous bakers, subjects of
King Picrochole of Lerné, first refuse the custom of the good Grandgousier's shepherds, and
then violently assault them, the incident being turned by the choleric monarch into a casus
belli against the peaceful one. Invasion, the early triumph of the aggressor, the triumphant
appearance of the invincible Friar John, and the complete turning of the tables by the advent
of Gargantua and his terrible mare, follow each other in rapid and brilliant telling, and perhaps
no parts of the book are better known. The extraordinary felicity with which Rabelaisian irony--here
kept in quieter but intenser activity than almost anywhere else--seizes and renders the common
causes, excuses, manners, etc., of war can never have escaped competent readers; but it must
have struck more persons of late than perhaps at any former time. It would be impertinent to
particularise largely; but if the famous adaptation and amplification of the old Pyrrhus story
in the counsel of Spadassin and Merdaille to Picrochole were printed in small type as the centre
of a fathom-square sheet, the whole margin could be more than filled with extracts, from German
books and newspapers, of advice to Kaiser Wilhelm II. Nor is there anything, in literature
touching history, where irony has bitten more deeply and lastingly into Life and Time than
the brief record of Picrochole's latter days after his downfall.

     He was informed by an old hag that his kingdom would be
     restored to him at the coming of the Cocqsigrues: since then
     it is not certainly known what has become of him. However, I
     have been told that he now works for his poor living at
     Lyons, and is as choleric as ever. And always he bemoans
     himself to strangers about the Cocqsigrues--yet with a
     certain hope, according to the old woman's prophecy, that at
     their coming he will be reinstated in his kingdom.

Edward FitzGerald would have called this "terrible"; and perhaps it is.

But there is much more humour than terror in the rest, and sometimes there are qualities different
from either. The rescue of the sacred precincts of the Abbey of Seuillé from the invaders by
that glorious monk (a personage at no great remove from our own Friar Tuck, to the later portraits
of whom he has lent some of his own traits) pleases the soul well, as do the feats of Gymnast
against Tripet, and the fate of the unlucky Touquedillon, and the escalade of La Roche Clermande,
and (a little less perhaps) the pure burlesque of the eating of the pilgrims, and the combing
out of the cannon balls, and the contrasted sweet reasonableness of the amiable though not
at all cowardly Grandgousier. But the advice of the Evil Counsellors to Picrochole is still
perhaps the pearl:

[Sidenote: The Counsel to Picrochole.]

     Then there appeared before Picrochole the Duke of Mennail,
     Count Spadassin, and Captain Merdaille, and said to him,
     "Sire, this day we make you the most happy and chivalrous
     prince that ever has been since the death of Alexander of
     Macedon." "Be covered, be covered," said Picrochole.
     "Gramercy, sire", said they, "but we know our duty. The
     means are as follows. You will leave here in garrison some
     captain with a small band of men to hold the place, which
     seems to us pretty strong, both by nature and by the
     fortifications you have contrived. You will, as you know
     well, divide your army in half. One half will fall upon this
     fellow Grandgousier and his people, and easily discomfit him
     at the first assault. There we shall gain money in heaps,
     for the rascal has plenty. (Rascal we call him, because a
     really noble prince never has a penny. To hoard is the mark
     of a rascal.)

     "The other part will meanwhile draw towards Aunis,
     Saintonge, Angoumois, and Gascony, as well as Perigord,
     Medoc, and Elanes. Without any resistance they will take
     towns, castles, and fortresses. At Bayonne, at St. Jean de
     Luz, and at Fontarabia you will seize all the ships, and
     coasting towards Galicia and Portugal, will plunder all the
     seaside places as far as Lisbon, where you will be
     reinforced with all the supplies necessary to a conqueror:
     Corbleu! Spain will surrender, for they are all poltroons.
     You will pass the Straits of Seville,[94] and will there
     erect two columns more magnificent than those of Hercules
     for the perpetual memory of your name. And that Strait shall
     thenceforward be named the Sea of Picrochole.

     "When that sea has been passed, lo! comes Barbarossa[95] to
     surrender as your slave." "I," said Picrochole, "will extend
     mercy to him." "Very well," said they, "on condition that he
     is baptized. And then you will assault the kingdoms of
     Tunis, of Hippo,[96] of Argier, of Bona, of Corona--to cut
     it short, all Barbary. Going further,[97] you will keep in
     your hands Majorca, Minorca, Sardinia, Corsica, and the
     other islands of the Ligurian and Balearic sea. Coasting to
     the left[98] you will dominate all Narbonese Gaul, Provence,
     the Allobroges, Genoa, Florence, Lucca, and, begad! Rome.
     Poor master Pope is already dying for fear of you." "I will
     never kiss his slipper," said Picrochole.

     "Italy being taken, behold Naples, Calabria, Apulia, and
     Sicily all at your mercy, and Malta into the bargain. I
     should like to see those funny knights, formerly of Rhodes,
     resist you! if it were only to examine their water." "I
     should like," said Picrochole, "to go to Loretto." "No, no,"
     said they, "that will be on the way back. Thence we shall
     take Candia, Cyprus, Rhodes, and the Cyclades, and make a
     set at Morea. We shall get it at once. By St. Treignan, God
     keep Jerusalem! for the soldan is nothing in power to you."
     "Shall I," said he, "then rebuild the Temple of Solomon?"
     "Not yet," said they, "wait a little. Be not so hasty in
     your enterprises."

And so with the most meticulous exactness (Rabelais' geography is irreproachable, and he carefully
avoids the cheap expedient of making Spadassin and Merdaille blunder) and the sagest citations
of Festina lente, they take him through Asia Minor to the Euphrates and Arabia, while the other
army (that which has annihilated Grandgousier) comes round by the northern route, sweeping
all Europe from Brittany and the British Isles to Constantinople, where the great rendezvous
is made and the universal empire established, Picrochole graciously giving his advisers Syria
and Palestine as their fiefs.

"Pretty much like our own days," said Mr. Rigmarole. Have we not heard something very like
this lately, as "Berlin to Baghdad," if not "Calais to Calcutta"? And even if we had not, would
not the sense and the satire of it be delectable? A great deal has been left out: the chapter
is, for Rabelais, rather a long one. The momentary doubt of the usually undoubting Picrochole
as to what they shall drink in the desert, allayed at once by a beautiful scheme of commissariat
camels and elephants,[99] which would have done credit to the most modern A.S.C., is very capital.
There is, indeed, an unpleasant Echephron[100] who points the old moral of Cineas to Pyrrhus
himself. But Picrochole rebuffs him with the invaluable Passons oultre, and closes the discussion
by anticipating Henri Quatre (who, no doubt, learnt the phrase from him), crying, "Qui m'aime,
si me suive!" and ordering all haste in the war.

It is possible that, here or earlier, the not-quite-so-gentle-as-he-is-traditionally-called
reader may ejaculate, "This is all true enough; but it is all very well known, and does not
need recapitulation." Is this quite so certain? No doubt at one time Englishmen did know their
Rabelais well. Southey did, for instance, and so, according to the historian of Barsetshire,
did, in the next generation, Archdeacon Grantly. More recently my late friend Sir Walter Besant
spent a great deal of pains on Master Francis, and mainly owing to his efforts there existed
for some years a Rabelais Club (already referred to), which left some pleasant memories. But
is it quite so certain that the average educated Englishman can at once distinguish Eudemon
from Epistemon, give a correct list of the various answers to Panurge's enquiries as to the
probable results of his marriage, relate what happened when (as glanced at above and returned
to later) nous passasmes oultre, and say what the adorable Quintessence admitted to her dainty
lips besides second intentions? I doubt it very much. Even special students of the Great Book,
as in other cases, have too often allowed themselves to be distracted from the pure enjoyment
of it by idle questions of the kinds above mentioned and others--questions of dates and names
and places, of origins and borrowings and imitations--questions the sole justification of which,
from the genuine Pantagruelian point of view, is that their utter dryness inevitably suggests
the cries--the Morning Hymn and the Evening Voluntary of the book itself--À boire! and Trinq.

But, even were this not so, a person who has undertaken, wisely or unwisely, to write the history
of the French Novel is surely entitled to lay some stress on what seems to him the importance
of this its first eminent example. At any rate he proposes not to passer oultre, but to stick
to the line struck out, and exhibit, in reasonable detail, the varieties of novel-matter and
manner contained in the book.

[Sidenote: The peace and the Abbey of Thelema.]

The conclusion of Gargantua--after the victor has addressed a concio to the vanquished, has
mildly punished the originators of the trouble or those he could catch (Spadassin and Merdaille
having run away "six hours before the battle") by setting them to work at his newly established
printing-press, and has distributed gifts and estates to his followers--may be one of the best
known parts of the whole book, but is not of the most strictly novel character, though it has
suggested at least one whole novel and parts or passages of others. The "Abbey of Thelema"--the
home of the order of Fay ce que vouldras--is, if not a devout, a grandiose imagination, and
it gives occasion for some admirable writing. But it is one of the purest exercises of "purpose,"
and one of the least furnished with incident or character, to be found in Rabelais. In order
to introduce it, he may even be thought guilty of what is extremely rare with him, a fault
of "keeping." He avoids this fault surprisingly in the contrasted burlesque and serious chronicles
of Grandgousier and Gargantua himself, as well as in the expanded contrast of Pantagruel and
Panurge. Yet the heartiest admirer of "Friar John of the Funnels" (or "Collops," for there
is a schism on this point) may fail to see in him a suitable or even a possible Head for an
assemblage of gallant gentlemen and stately ladies (both groups being also accomplished scholars)
like the Thelemites. But Rabelais, like Shakespeare, had small care for small objections. He
wanted to sketch a Paradise of Anti-Monkery, and for this he wanted an Anti-Abbot. Friar John
was the handiest person, and he took him. But it is worth noting that the Abbot of Thelema
never afterwards appears as such, or in the slightest relation to this miniature but most curious
and interesting example of the Renaissance fancy for imaginary countries, cities, institutions,
with its splendours of architecture and decoration, its luxurious but not loose living, its
gallantry and its learning, its gorgeous dress, its polished manners (the Abbot must have had
some trouble to learn them), and its "inscriptions and enigmas" in verse which is not quite
so happy as the prose. One would not cut it out of the book for anything, and parallels to
it (not merely of the kind above referred to) have found and may find place in other books
of fiction. But it is only a sort of chantry, in the Court of the Gentiles too, of the mighty
Temple of the Novel.

[Sidenote: Pantagruel I. The contrasted youth.]

What it was exactly that made Rabelais "double," as it were, on Gargantua in the early books
of Pantagruel[101] it would probably be idle to enquire. His deliberate mention in the Prologue
of some of the most famous romances (with certain others vainly to be sought now or at any
time) might of course most easily be a mere red herring. It may be, that as Gargantua was not
entirely of his own creation, he determined to "begin at the beginning" in his original composition.
But it matters little or nothing. We have, once more, a burlesque genealogy with known persons--Nimrod,
Goliath, Polyphemus, etc. etc.--entangled in a chain of imaginaries, one of the latter, Hurtaly,
forming the subject of a solemn discussion of the question why he is not received among the
crew of the Ark. The unfortunate concomitants of the birth of Pantagruel--which is fatal to
his mother Badebec--contrast with the less chequered history of Gargantua and Gargamelle, while
the mixed sorrow and joy of Gargantua at his wife's death and his son's birth completes this
contrast. Pantagruel, though quite as amiable as his father, if not more so, has in infancy
the natural awkwardnesses of a giant, and a hairy giant too--devouring cows whole instead of
merely milking them, and tearing to pieces an unfortunate bear who only licked his infant chops.
As was said above, he has no wild-oats period of education like his father's, but his company
is less carefully chosen than that of Gargantua in the days of his reformation, and gives his
biographer opportunities for his sharpest satire.

First we have (taken, as everybody is supposed now to know, from Geoffrey Tory, but improved)
the episode of the Limousin scholar with his "pedantesque"[102] deformation of French and Latin
at once, till the giant takes him by the throat and he cries for mercy in the strongest meridional
brogue.[103] Then comes the famous catalogue of the Library of Saint Victor, a fresh attack
on scholastic and monastic degeneracy, and a kind of joining hands (Ortuinus figures) with
the German guerrilla against the Obscuri, and then a long and admirable letter from Gargantua,
whence we learn that Grandgousier is dead, and that his son is now the sagest of monarchs,
who has taken to read Greek, and shows no memory of his governesses or his earlier student
days. And then again comes Panurge.

[Sidenote: Panurge.]

Many doubtful things have been said about this most remarkable personage. He has been fathered
upon the Cingar of Folengo, which is too much of a compliment to that creation of the great
Macaronic, and Falstaff has been fathered upon him, which is distinctly unfair to Falstaff.
Sir John has absolutely nothing of the ill-nature which characterises both Cingar and Panurge;
and Panurge is an actual and contemptible coward, while many good wits have doubted whether
Falstaff is, in the true sense, a coward at all. But Panurge is certainly one thing--the first
distinct and striking character in prose fiction. Morally, of course, there is little to be
said for him, except that, when he has no temptations to the contrary, he is a "good fellow"
enough. As a human example of mimesis in the true Greek sense, not of "imitation" but of "fictitious
creation," he is, once more, the first real character in prose fiction--the ancestor, in the
literary sense, of the mighty company in which he has been followed by the similar creations
of the masters from Cervantes to Thackeray. The fantastic colouring, and more than colouring,
of the whole book affects him, of course, more than superficially. One could probably give
some not quite absurd guesses why Rabelais shaped him as he did--presented him as a very naughty
but intensely clever child, with the monkey element in humanity thrown into utmost prominence.
But it is better not to do so. Panurge has some Yahooish characteristics, but he is not a Yahoo--in
fact, there is no misanthropy in Rabelais.[104] He is not merely impish (as in his vengeance
on the lady of Paris), but something worse than impish (as in that on Dindenault); and yet
one cannot call him diabolic, because he is so intensely human. It is customary, and fairly
correct, to describe his ethos as that of understanding and wit wholly divorced from morality,
chivalry, or religion; yet he is never Mephistophelian. If one of the hundred touches which
make him a masterpiece is to be singled out, it might perhaps be the series of rapturous invitations
to his wedding which he gives to his advisers while he thinks their advice favourable, and
the limitations of enforced politeness which he appends when the unpleasant side of their opinions
turns up. And it may perhaps be added that one of the chief reasons for believing heartily
in the last Book is the delectable and unimprovable contrast which La Quinte and her court
of intellectual fantastry present to this picture of intellectual materialism.

[Sidenote: Short view of the sequels in Book II.]

It was impossible that such a figure should not to a certain extent dwarf others; but Rabelais,
unlike some modern character-mongers, never lets his psychology interfere with his story. After
a few episodes, the chief of which is the great sign-duel of Thaumast and Panurge himself,
the campaign against the Dipsodes at once enables Pantagruel to display himself as a war-like
hero of romance, permits him fantastic exploits parallel to his father's, and, by installing
Panurge in a lordship of the conquered country and determining him, after "eating his corn
in the blade," to "marry and settle," introduces the larger and most original part of the whole
work--the debates and counsellings on the marriage in the Third Book, and, after the failure
of this, the voyage to settle the matter at the Oracle of the Bottle in the Fourth and Fifth.
This "plot," if it may be called so, is fairly central and continuous throughout, but it gives
occasion for the most surprising "alarums and excursions," variations and divagations, of the
author's inexhaustible humour, learning, inventive fertility, and never-failing faculty of
telling a tale. If the book does sometimes in a fashion "hop forty paces in the public street,"
and at others gambade in a less decorous fashion even than hopping, it is also Cleopatresque
in its absolute freedom from staleness and from tedium.

[Sidenote: Pantagruel II. (Book III.)

The marriage of Panurge and the consultations on it.]

The Third Book has less of apparent variety in it, and less of what might be called striking
incident, than any of the others, being all but wholly occupied by the enquiries respecting
the marriage of Panurge. But this gives it a "unity" which is of itself attractive to some
tastes, while the delightful sonnet to the spirit Of Marguerite,

    Esprit abstraict, ravy et ecstatique,

(perhaps the best example of rhétoriqueur poetry), at the beginning, and the last sight (except
in letters) of Gargantua at the end, with the curious coda on the "herb Pantagruelion" (the
ancestor of Joseph de Maistre's famous eulogy of the Executioner), give, as it were, handle
and top to it in unique fashion. But the body of it is the thing. The preliminary outrunning
of the constable--had there been constables in Salmigondin, but they probably knew the story
of the Seigneur of Basché too well--and the remarkable difference between the feudatory and
his superior on the subject of debt, serve but as a whet to the project of matrimony which
the debtor conceives. Of course, Panurge is the very last man whom a superficial observer of
humanity--the very first whom a somewhat profounder student thereof--would take as a marrying
one. He is "a little failed"; he thinks to rest himself while not foregoing his former delights,
and he shuts eyes and ears to the proverb, as old as Greek in words and as old as the world
in fact, that "the doer shall suffer." That he should consult Pantagruel is in the circumstances
almost a necessity, and Pantagruel's conduct is exactly what one would expect from that good-natured,
learned, admirable, but rather enigmatic personage. Merely "aleatory" decision--by actual use
of dice--he rejects as illicit, though towards the close of the book one of its most delectable
episodes ends in his excusing Mr. Justice Bridoye for settling law cases in that way. But he
recommends the sortes Virgilianae, and he, others, and Panurge himself add the experiment of
dreams, and the successive consultation of the Sibyl of Panzoust, the dumb Nazdecabre, the
poet Raminagrobis, Epistemon, "Her Trippa," Friar John himself, the theologian Hippothadée,
the doctor Rondibilis, the philosopher Trouillogan, and the professional fool Triboulet. No
reader of the most moderate intelligence can need to be told that the counsellors opine all
in the same sense (unfavourable), though with more or less ambiguity, and that Panurge, with
equal obstinacy and ingenuity, invariably twists the oracles according to his own wishes. But
what no reader, who came fresh to Rabelais and fasting from criticism on him, could anticipate,
is the astonishing spontaneity of the various dealings with the same problem, the zest and
vividness of the whole thing, and the unceasing shower of satire on everything human--general,
professional, and individual--which is kept up throughout. There is less pure extravagance,
less mere farce, and (despite the subject) even less "sculduddery" than in any other Book;
but also in no other does Rabelais "keep up with humanity" (somewhat, indeed, in the fashion
in which a carter keeps up with his animal, running and lashing at the same time) so triumphantly.

In no book, moreover, are the curious intervals--or, as it were, prose choric odes--of interruption
more remarkable. Pantagruel's own serious wisdom supplies not a few of them, and the long and
very characteristic episode of Judge Bridoye and his decision by throw of dice is very loosely
connected with the main subject. But the most noteworthy of these excursions comes, as has
been said, at the end--the last personal appearance of the good Gargantua, and the famous discourse,
several chapters long, on the Herb Pantagruelion, otherwise Hemp.

[Sidenote: Pantagruel III. (IV.) The first part of the voyage.]

The Fourth Book (Third of Pantagruel) starts the voyage, and begins to lead the commentator
who insists on fixing and interpreting the innumerable real or apparent double, treble, and
almost centuple meanings, into a series of dances almost illimitable. As has been suggested
more than once, the most reasonable way is probably to regard the whole as an intentional mixture
of covert satire, pure fooling, not a little deliberate leading astray, and (serving as vehicle
and impelling force at once) the irresistible narrative impulse animating the writer and carrying
the reader on to the end--any end, if it be only the Other End of Nowhere. The "curios," living
and other, of Medamothi (Nowhere to begin with!), and the mysterious appearance of a shipful
of travellers coming back from the Land of Lanterns, whither the Pantagruelian party is itself
bound; the rather too severely punished ill-manners of the sheep-dealer Dindenault; the strange
isles of various nature--such, especially, as the abode of the bailiffs and process-servers,
which gives occasion to the admirably told story of François Villon and the Seigneur of Basché;
the great storm--another of the most famous passages of the book--with the cowardice of Panurge
and the safe landing in the curious country of the Macréons (long-livers); the evil island
where reigns Quaresmeprenant, and the elaborate analysis of that personage by the learned Xenomanes;
the alarming Physeter (blowing whale) and his defeat by Pantagruel; the land of the Chitterlings,
the battle with them, and the interview and peace-making with their Queen Niphleseth (a passage
at which the sculduddery-hunters have worked their hardest), and then the islands of the Papefigues
and the Papimanes, where Rabelais begins his most obvious and boldest meddling with the great
ecclesiastical-political questions of the day--all these things and others flit past the reader
as if in an actual voyage. Even here, however, he rather skirts than actually invades the most
dangerous ground. It is the Decretals, not the doctrines, that are satirised, and Homenas,
bishop of Papimania, despite his adoration of these forgeries, and the slightly suspicious
number and prettiness of the damsels who wait upon him, is a very good fellow and an excellent
host. There is something very soothing in his metaphorical way of demanding wine from his Hebes,
"Clerice, esclaire icy," the necessary illumination being provided by a charming girl with
a hanap of "extravagant" wine. These agreeable if satiric experiences--for the Decretals do
no harm beyond exciting the bile of Master Epistemon (who, it is to be feared, was a little
of a pedant)--are followed by the once more almost universally known passage of the "Frozen
Words" and the visit to "Messer Gaster, the world's first Master of Arts"; by the islands (once
more mysterious) of Chaneph (hypocrisy) and Ganabin (thieves); the book concluding abruptly
with an ultra-farcical cochonnerie of the lower kind, relieved partially by a libellous but
impossible story about our Edward the Fifth and the poet Villon again, as well as by the appearance
of an interesting but not previously mentioned member of the crew of the Thalamége (Pantagruel's
flagship), the great cat Rodilardus.

[Sidenote: Pantagruel IV. (Book V.) The second part of the voyage. The "Isle Sonnante."]

[Sidenote: The "Chats Fourrés."]

One of the peculiarities of the Fifth Book, and perhaps one of those which have aroused that
suspicion about it which, after what has been said above, it is not necessary further to discuss,
is that it is more "in blocks" than the others.[105] The eight chapters of the Isle Sonnante
take up the satire of the Fourth Book on Papimania and on the "Papegaut," who is here introduced
in a much fiercer tone--a tone which, if one cared for hypothetical criticism, might be attributed
with about equal probability to a genuine deepening of hostile feeling, to absence of revision,
and to possible sophistication by some one into whose hands it fell between the author's death
and its publication. But a perfectly impartial critic, who, on the one hand, does not, in Carlyle's
admirable phrase, "regard the Universe as a hunting-field from which it were good and pleasant
to drive the Pope," and, on the other, is content to regard the extremer Protestants as singularly
unpleasant persons without pronouncing Ernulphus-curses on them, may perhaps fail to find in
it either the cleverest or the most amusing part of the voyage. The episode of the next Isle--that
des Ferrements--is obscure, whether it is or is not (as the commentators were sure to suggest)
something else beginning with "obsc-," and the succeeding one, with its rocks fashioned like
gigantic dice, is not very amusing. But the terrible country of the Chats Fourrés and their
chief Grippeminaud--an attack on the Law as unsparing as, and much more vivid than that on
the Church in the overture--may rank with the best things in Rabelais. The tyrant's ferocious
and double-meaning catchword of Or çà! and the power at his back, which even Pantagruel thinks
it better rather to run away from than to fight openly, which Panurge frankly bribes, and over
which even the reckless and invincible Friar John obtains not much triumph, except that of
cutting up, after buying it, an old woman's bed--these and the rest have a grim humour not
quite like anything else.

[Sidenote: "La Quinte."]

The next section--that of the Apedeftes or Uneducated Ones[106]--has been a special object
of suspicion; it is certainly a little difficult, and perhaps a little dull. One is not sorry
when the explorers, in the ambiguous way already noted, "passent Oultre," and, after difficulties
with the wind, come to "the kingdom of Quintessence, named Entelechy." Something has been said
more than once of this already, and it is perhaps unnecessary to say more, or indeed anything,
except to those who themselves "hold of La Quinte," and who for that very reason require no
talking about her. "We" (if one may enrol oneself in their company) would almost rather give
up Rabelais altogether than sacrifice this delightful episode, and abandon the idea of having
the ladies of the Queen for our partners in Emmelie, and Calabrisme, and the thousand other
dances, of watching the wonderful cures by music, and the interesting process of throwing,
not the house out of the window, but the window out of the house, and the miraculous and satisfactory
transformation of old ladies into young girls, with very slight alteration of their former
youthful selves, and all the charming topsyturvifications of Entelechy. Not to mention the
gracious if slightly unintelligible speeches of the exquisite princess, when clear Hesperus
shone once more, and her supper of pure nectar and ambrosia (not grudging more solid viands
to her visitors), and the great after-supper chess-tournament with living pieces, and the "invisible
disparition" of the lady, and the departure of the fortunate visitors themselves, duly inscribed
and registered as Abstractors of Quintessence. The whole is like a good dream, and is told
so as almost to be one.

Between this and the final goal of the Country of Lanterns the interest falls a little. The
island of "Odes" (not "poems" but "ways"), where the "walks walk" (les chemins cheminent);
that of "Esclots" ("clogs"), where dwell the Frères Fredonnants, and where the attack on monkery
is renewed in a rather unsavoury and rather puerile fashion; and that of Satin, which is a
sort of Medamothi rehandled, are not first-rate--they would have been done better, or cut out,
had the book ever been issued by Master Francis. But the arrival at and the sojourn in Lanternia
itself recovers the full powers of Rabelais at his best, though one may once more think that
some of the treatment might have been altered in the case just mentioned.

[Sidenote: The conclusion and The Bottle.]

Apart from the usual mixture of serious and purely jocular satire, of learning and licence,
of jargonic catalogues, of local references to Western France and the general topography of
Utopia, this conclusion consists of two main parts--first, a most elaborate description of
the Temple, containing underground the Oracle of the Bottle, to which the pilgrims are conducted
by a select "Lantern," and of its priestess Bacbuc, its adytum with a fountain, and, in the
depth and centre of all, the sacred Bottle itself; and secondly, the ceremonies of the delivery
of the Oracle; the divine utterance, Trinq! its interpretation by Bacbuc; the very much ad
libitum reinterpretations of the interpretation by Panurge and Friar John, and the dismissal
of the pilgrims by the priestess, Or allez de par Dieu, qui vous conduise![107]

       *       *       *       *       *

What, it may be asked, is the object of this cumbrous analysis of certainly one of the most
famous and (as it at least should be) one of the best known books of the world? That object
has been partly indicated already; but it may be permissible to set it forth more particularly
before ending this chapter. Of the importance, on the one hand, of the acquisition by the novel
of the greatest known and individual writer of French up to his date, and of the enormous popularity
of this example of it, enough may have been said. But the abstract has been given, and the
further comment is now added, with the purpose of showing, in a little detail, how immensely
the resources and inspirations of future practitioners were enriched and strengthened, varied
and multiplied, by Gargantua and Pantagruel. The book as a whole is to be classed, no doubt,
as "Eccentric" fiction. But if you compare with Rabelais that one of his followers[108] who
possessed most genius and who worked at his following with most deliberation, you will find
an immense falling off in richness and variety as well as in strength. The inferiority of Sterne
to Master Francis in his serious pieces, whether he is whimpering over dead donkeys and dying
lieutenants, or simulating honest indignation against critics, is too obvious to need insistence.
Nor can one imagine any one--unless, like Mackenzie and other misguided contemporaries or juniors,
he himself wanted to whimper, or unless he also aimed at the fatrasie--going to Sterne for
pattern or inspiration. Now Rabelais is a perpetual fount of inspiration, an inexhaustible
magazine of patterns to the most "serious" novelist whose seriousness is not of the kind designated
by that term in dissenting slang. That abounding narrative faculty which has been so much dwelt
on touches so many subjects, and manages to carry along with it so many moods, thoughts, and
even feelings, that it could not but suggest to any subsequent writer who had in him the germ
of the novelist's art, how to develop and work out such schemes as might occur to him. While,
for his own countrymen at least, the vast improvement which he made in French prose, and which,
with the accomplishment of his younger contemporaries Amyot and Montaigne, established the
greatness of that prose itself, was a gain, the extent of which cannot be exaggerated. Therefore
it has seemed not improper to give him a chapter to himself, and to treat his book with a minuteness
not often to be paralleled in this History.[109]

FOOTNOTES:

[90] A complete argument on this much vexed subject can hardly be wished for here: but it may
be permitted to say that nearly fifty years' consideration of the matter has left less and
less doubt in my mind as to the genuineness of the "Quart" or "Quint" Livre as it is variously
called--according as Gargantua is numbered separately or not. One of the apparently strongest
arguments against its genuineness--the constant presence of "Je" in the narrative--really falls,
with the others--the fiercer and more outspoken character of the satire, the somewhat lessened
prominence of Pantagruel, etc. etc.--before one simple consideration. We know from the dates
of publication of the other books that Rabelais was by no means a rapid writer, or at any rate
that, if he wrote rapidly, he "held up" what he did write long, and pretty certainly rewrote
a good deal. Now the previous Book had appeared only a short time before what must have been
the date of his death; and this could not, according to analogy and precedent, have been ready,
or anything like ready, when he died. On the other hand, time enough passed between his death
and the publication (even of the Ile Sonnante fragment) for the MS. to have passed through
other hands and to have been adulterated, even if it was not, when the Master's hands left
it, in various, as well as not finally finished form. I can see nothing in it really inconsistent
with the earlier Books; nothing unworthy of them (especially if on the one hand possible meddling,
and on the other imperfect revision be allowed for); and much, especially the Chats Fourrés,
the Quintessence part, and the Conclusion, without which the whole book would be not only incomplete
but terribly impoverished. I may add that, having a tolerably full knowledge of sixteenth-century
French literature, and a great admiration of it, I know no single other writer or group of
other writers who could, in my critical judgment, by any reasonable possibility have written
this Book. François Rabelais could have done it, and I have no doubt that he did it; though
whether we have it as he left it no man can say.

[91] It is perhaps hardly necessary, but may not be quite idle, to observe that our Abstractor
of Quintessence takes good care not to quote the other half of the parallelism, "but the prudent
looketh well to his going."

[92] It is possible, but not certain, that he is playing on the two senses of the word apparence,
the ambiguity of which is not so great in English. The A. V., "evidence of things not seen,"
would not have suited his turn.

[93] In which, it will be remembered, the "liquor called punch," which one notes with sorrow
that Rabelais knew not, but which he certainly would have approved, is also "nowhere spoken
against."

[94] Original "Sibyle." I owe to Prof. Ker an important reminder (which I ought not to have
needed) of Dante's "Sibilia" in the famous "Ulysses" passage, Inf. xxvi. 110.

[95] The Turkish corsair, not the German Emperor.

[96] Probably erected into a kingdom in honour of St. Augustine.

[97] Passant oultre--one of Rabelais' favourite and most polymorphic expressions. It has nearly
always an ironical touch in it; and it enjoys a chapter all to itself in that mood--V. xvii.

[98] Perhaps this à gauche might make as good a short test as any of a reader's sense of humour.
But here also a possible Dantean reminiscence (not suggested to me this time) comes in; for
in the lines already quoted "dalla man destra" occurs.

[99] The King is, however, more difficult to satisfy on this point than on others; and objects
with a delightful preterite, "Yes: but we did not get our wine fresh and cool"; whereat they
rebuke him with a respectful reminder that great conquerors cannot be always entirely comfortable.

[100] "Suspender of judgment."

[101] Of course the first book of the son preceded the reconstructed history of the father;
but this is immaterial.

[102] The correct opposition of this term (Latin or Greek words vernacularised) to "Macaronic"
(vernacular words turned into Latin or Greek form) is not always observed.

[103] It is very seldom, after his infantine and innocent excesses, that Pantagruel behaves
thus. He is for the most part a quiet and somewhat reserved prince, very generous, very wise,
very devout, and, though tolerating the eccentricities of Panurge and Friar John, never taking
part in them.

[104] If Swift had drunk more wine and had not put water in what he did drink, possibly this
quality might have been lessened in him.

[105] The first of these, the Isle Sonnante, as is well enough known to all students, appeared
separately and before the rest.

[106] A sort of dependency or province of the Chats Fourrés.

[107] A MS. "addition" unknown to the old printed forms, appears in some modern ones. It is
a mere disfigurement: and is hardly likely even to have been a rejected draft.

[108] Not Swift here, but Sterne. There is far higher genius in Gulliver than in Shandy; but
the former is not fatrasie, the latter is.

[109] That the not quite unknown device of setting up a man of straw in order to knock him
down has not been followed in this chapter, a single piece of evidence out of many may be cited.
H. Körting in his justly well reputed Geschichte des Franz. Romans im XVII. Jahrh. (Oppeln
u. Leipzig, 1891, i. 133 note) would rule Rabelais out of the history of the novel altogether.
This book, which will be quoted again with gratitude later, displays a painstaking erudition
not necessitating any make-weight of sympathy for its author's early death after great suffering.
It is extremely useful; but it does not escape, in this and other places, the censure which,
ten years before the war of 1914, the present writer felt it his duty to express on modern
German critics and literary historians generally (History of Criticism, London, 1904, vol.
iii. Bks. viii. and ix.), that on points of literary appreciation, as distinguished from mere
philology, "enumeration," bibliographical research, and the like, they are "sadly to seek."
It may not be impertinent to add that Herr Körting's history happened never to have been read
by me till after the above chapter of the present book was written.

CHAPTER VII

THE SUCCESSORS OF RABELAIS AND THE INFLUENCE OF THE "AMADIS" ROMANCES

In the present chapter we shall endeavour to treat two divisions of actual novel- or at least
fiction-writing--strikingly opposed to each other in character; and a third subject, to include
which in the title would have made that title too long, and which is not strictly a branch
of novel-writing, but which had perhaps as important an influence on the progress of the novel
itself as anything mentioned or to be mentioned in all this History. The first division is
composed of the followers--sometimes in the full, always in the chronological sense--of Rabelais,
a not very strong folk as a rule, but including one brilliant example of co-operative work,
and two interesting, if in some degree problematical, persons. The second, strikingly contrasting
with the general if not the universal tendency of the first, is the great translated group
of Amadis romances, which at once revived romance of the older kind itself, and exercised a
most powerful, if not an actually generative, influence on newer forms which were themselves
to pass into the novel proper. The third is the increasing body of memoir- and anecdote-writers
who, with Brantôme at their head, make actual personages and actual events the subjects of
a kind of story-telling, not perhaps invariably of unexceptionable historic accuracy, but furnishing
remarkable situations of plot and suggestions of character, together with abundant new examples
of the "telling" faculty itself.

[Sidenote: Subsidiary importance of Brantôme and other character-mongers.]

The last point, as an apparent digression but really a most important contribution to the History,
may perhaps be discussed and dismissed first. All persons who have even a slight knowledge
of French literature must be aware how early and how remarkable are its possessions in what
is vaguely called the "Memoir" department. There is nothing at the time, in any modern literature
known to the present writer, similar to Villehardouin, or a little later to Joinville,--one
might almost say that there is nothing in any literature at any time superior, if there be
anything equal, in its kind to Froissart. In the first two cases there is pure personal experience;
in the third there is, of course, a certain amount of precedent writing on the subject for
guidance, and a large gathering of information by word of mouth. But in all these, and to a
less extent in others up to the close of the fifteenth century, there is the indefinable gift
of treatment--of "telling a story." In Villehardouin this gift may be almost wholly, and in
principle very mainly, limited to the two great subjects which made the mediaeval end as far
as profane matters were concerned--fighting and counselling; but this is by no means the case
in Froissart, whom one is sometimes tempted to regard as a Sir Walter Scott thrown away upon
base reality.

With the sixteenth century this gift once more burgeoned and spread itself out--dealing, indeed,
very mainly with the somewhat ungrateful subject of the religious disputes and wars, but flowering
or fruiting into the unsurpassable gossip--though gossip is too undignified a word--of Pierre
de Bourdeilles, Abbé de Brantôme, that Froissart and Pepys in one, with the noble delight in
noble things of the first, inextricably united to the almost innocent shamelessness of the
second, and a narrative gift equal to that of either in idiosyncrasy, and ranging beyond the
subjects of both. Himself a soldier and a courtier (his abbacy, like many others, was purely
titular and profitable--not professional in the least), his favourite subjects in literature,
and obviously his idols in life, were great soldiers and fair ladies, "Bayard and the two Marguerites,"
as some one has put it. And his vivid irregular fashion of writing adapts itself with equal
ease to a gallant feat of arms and a ferocious, half-cut-throat duel, to an exquisite piece
of sentimental passion like that which tells us the story how the elder Queen of Navarre rebuked
the lover carelessly stepping over the grave of his dead mistress, and to an unquotable anecdote
to parallel the details of which, in literature of high rank, one must go to Rabelais himself,
to Martial, or to Aristophanes. But, whatever the subject, the faculty of lively communication
remains unaltered, and the suggestion of its transference from fact (possibly a little coloured)
to pure fiction becomes more and more possible and powerful.[110]

[Sidenote: The Heptameron.]

No book has been more subject to the "insupportable advances" of the "key"-monger than the
Heptameron, and the rage for identifying has gone so far that the pretty old name of "Emarsuite"
for one of the characters has been discarded for an alleged and much uglier "Ennasuite," which
is indeed said to have MS. authority, but which is avowedly preferred because it can be twisted
into "Anne à Suite" ("Anne in Waiting"), and so can be fastened to an actual Maid of Honour
of Marguerite's. It is only fair, however, to admit that something of the kind is at least
suggested by the book itself. Even by those who do not trouble themselves in the least about
the personages who may or may not have been disguised under the names of Nomerfide (the Neifile
of this group) and Longarine, Saffredent and Dagoucin and Gebron (Geburon they call him now),
admit the extreme probability of the Queen having invited identification of herself with Parlamente,
the younger matron of the party, and of Hircan her husband with the King of Navarre.[111] But
some (among whom is the present writer) think that this delightful and not too well-fated type
of Renaissance amorousness, letteredness, and piety combined made a sort of dichotomy of herself
here, and intended the personage of Oisille, the elder duenna (though by no means a very stern
one) of the party, to stand for her as well as Parlamente--to whom one really must give the
Italian pronunciation to get her out of the abominable suggestion of our "talking-machine."

[Sidenote: Character and "problems."]

A much more genuinely literary question has been raised and discussed as to the exact authorship
of the book. That it is entirely Marguerite's, not the most jealous admirers of the Queen need
for a moment contend. She is known to have had a sort of literary court from Marot and Rabelais
downwards, some of the members of which were actually resident with her, and not a few of whom--such
as Boaistuau and Le Maçon, the translators of Bandello and Boccaccio, and Bonaventure Despériers
(v. inf.)--were positive experts in the short story. Moreover, the custom of distributing these
collections among different speakers positively invited collaboration in writing. The present
critic and his friend, Mr. Arthur Tilley of King's College, Cambridge, who has long been our
chief specialist in the literature of the French Renaissance, are in an amicable difference
as to the part which Despériers in particular may have played in the Heptameron; but this is
of no great importance here, and though Marguerite's other literary work is distinctly inferior
in style, it is not impossible that the peculiar tone of the best parts of it, especially as
regards the religious-amorous flavour, was infused by her or under her direct influence. The
enthusiasm of Rabelais and Marot; the striking anecdote already mentioned which Brantôme, whose
mother had been one of Marguerite's maids of honour, tells us, and one or two other things,
suggest this; for Despériers was more of a satirist than of an amorist, and though the charges
of atheism brought against him are (v. inf. again) scarcely supported by his work, he was certainly
no pietist. I should imagine that he revised a good deal and sometimes imparted his nervous
and manly, but, in his own Contes, sometimes too much summarised style. But some striking phrases,
such as "l'impossibilité de nostre chair,"[112] may be hers, and the following remarkable speech
of Parlamente probably expresses her own sentiments pretty exactly. It is very noteworthy that
Hircan, who is generally represented as "taking up" his wife's utterances with a certain sarcasm,
is quite silent here.

     [Sidenote: Parlamente on human and divine love.]

     "Also," said Parlamente, "I have an opinion that never will
     a man love God perfectly if he has not perfectly loved some
     of God's creatures in this world." "But what do you call
     'perfect loving'?" said Saffredent. "Do you reckon as
     perfect lovers those who are transis,[113] and who adore
     ladies at a distance, without daring to make their wishes
     known?" "I call perfect lovers," answered Parlamente, "those
     who seek in what they love some perfection--be it beauty,
     kindness, or good grace,--always striving towards virtue;
     and such as have so high and honourable a heart, that they
     would not, were they to die for it, take for their object
     the base things which honour and conscience disapprove: for
     the soul, which is only created that it may return to its
     Sovereign Good, does naught while it is in the body but long
     for the attainment of this. But because the senses by which
     alone it can acquire information are darkened and made
     carnal by the sin of our first father, they can only show
     her the visible things which approach closest to
     perfection--and after these the soul runs, thinking to find
     in outward beauty, in visible grace, and in moral virtue,
     grace, beauty, and virtue in sovereign degree. But when she
     has sought them and tried them, and finds not in them Him
     whom she loves, she leaves them alone,[114] just as a child,
     according to his age, likes dolls and other trivialities,
     the prettiest he sees, and thinks a collection of pebbles
     actual riches, but as he grows up prefers his dolls alive,
     and gets together the goods necessary for human life. Yet
     when he knows, by still wider experience, that in earthly
     things there is neither perfection nor felicity, he desires
     to seek the Creator and the Source of these. Nevertheless,
     if God open not the eye of faith in him he would be in
     danger of becoming, instead of a merely ignorant man, an
     infidel philosopher.[115] For Faith alone can demonstrate
     and make receivable the good that the carnal and animal man
     cannot understand."

This gives the better Renaissance temper perhaps as well as anything to be found, and may,
or should in fairness, be set against the worser tone of mere libertinage in which some even
of the ladies indulge here, and still more against that savagery which has been noticed above.
This undoubtedly was in Milton's mind when he talked of "Lust hard by Hate," and it makes Hircan
coolly observe, after a story has been told in which an old woman successfully interferes to
save a girl's chastity, that in the place of the hero he should certainly have killed the hag
and enjoyed the girl. This is obviously said in no bravado, and not in the least humorously:
and the spirit of it is exemplified in divers not in the least incredible anecdotes of Brantôme's
in the generation immediately following, and of Tallemant des Réaux in the next. The religiosity
displayed is of a high temper of Christian Platonism, and we cannot, as we can elsewhere, say
what the song says of something else, that "it certainly looks very queer." The knights and
ladies do go to mass and vespers; but to say that they go punctually would be altogether erroneous,
for Hircan makes wicked jokes on his and Parlamente's being late for the morning office, and,
on one occasion at least, they keep the unhappy monks of the convent where they are staying
(who do not seem to dare to begin vespers without them) waiting a whole hour while they are
finishing not particularly edifying stories. The less complaisant casuists, even of the Roman
Church, would certainly look askance at the piety of the distinguished person (said by tradition
to have been King Francis himself) who always paid his respects to Our Lady on his way to illegitimate
assignations, and found himself the better therefor on one occasion of danger. But the tone
of our extract is invariably that of Oisille and Parlamente. The purer love part of the matter
is a little, as the French themselves say, "alembicated." But still the whole is graceful and
fascinating, except for a few pieces of mere passionless coarseness, which Oisille generally
reproves. And it is scarcely necessary to say what large opportunities these tones and colours
of fashion and "quality," of passion and manners, give to the future novelist, whose treatment
shall stand to them very much as they stand to the shorter and sometimes almost shorthand written
tales of Despériers himself.

[Sidenote: Despériers.]

With the Cymbalum Mundi of this rather mysterious person we need have little to do. It is,
down to the dialogue-form, an obvious imitation of Lucian--a story about the ancient divinities
(especially Mercury) and a certain "Book of Destiny" and talking animals, and a good deal of
often rather too transparent allegory. It has had, both in its own day and since, a very bad
reputation as being atheistical or at least anti-Christian, and seems really to have had something
to do with the author's death, by suicide or otherwise. There need, however, be very little
harm in it; and there is not very much good as a story, nor, therefore, much for us. It does
not carry the art of its particular kind of fiction any further than Lucian himself, who is,
being much more of a genius, on the whole a much better model, even taking him at that rather
inferior rate. The Contes et Joyeux Devis, on the other hand, though the extreme brevity of
some has perhaps sometimes prejudiced readers against them, have always seemed to the present
writer to form the most remarkable book, as literature, of all the department at the time except
Gargantua and Pantagruel and the Heptameron, and to supply a strong presumption that their
author had more than a minor hand in the Heptameron itself. It must, of course, be admitted
that the fashion in which they are delivered may not only offend in one direction, but may
possibly mislead in another. One may read too much into the brevity, and so fall into the error
of that other Englishman who was beguiled by the mysterious signs of Despériers' greatest contemporary's
most original creation. But a very large and long experience of literary weighing and measuring
ought to be some safeguard against the mistake of Thaumast.

[Sidenote: Contes et Joyeux Devis.]

One remarkable difference which may seem, at first sight, to be against the theory of Despériers
having had a large share in the Heptameron is the contrasted and, as it may seem again at first
sight, antagonistic tone of the two. There are purely comic and even farcical passages in Marguerite's
book, but the general colour, as has been said, is religious-sentimental or courtly-amatory,
with by no means infrequent excursions into the purely tragical. The Contes et Joyeux Devis,
on the other hand, in the main continue the wholly jocular tone of the old fabliaux. But Despériers
must have been, not only not the great man of letters which the somewhat exaggerated zeal of
his editor, M. Louis Lacour, ranked him as being, but a very weak and feeble writer, if he
could not in this way write comedy in one book and tragedy in another. In fact Rabelais gives
us (as the greatest writers so often do) what is in more senses than one a master-key to the
contrast. Despériers has in the Contes constant ironic qualifications and asides which may
even have been directly imitated from his elder and greater contemporary; Marguerite has others
which pair off in the same way with the most serious Rabelaisian "intervals," to which attention
has been drawn in the last chapter. One point, however, does seem, at least to me, to emerge
from the critical consideration of these two books with the other works of the Queen on the
one hand and the other works of Despériers[116] on the other. It is that the latter had a much
crisper and stronger style than Marguerite's own, and that he had a faculty of grave ironic
satire, going deeper and ranging wider than her "sensibility" would allow. There is one on
the fatal and irremediable effects of disappointing ladies in their expectations, wherein there
is something more than the mere grivoiserie, which in other hands it might easily have remained.
The very curious Novel XIII.--on King Solomon and the philosopher's stone and the reason of
the failure of alchemy--is of quite a different type from most things in these story-collections,
and makes one regret that there is not more of it, and others of the same kind. For sheer amusement,
which need not be shocking to any but the straitest-laced of persons, the story (XXXIV.) of
a curate completely "scoring off" his bishop (who did not observe the caution given by Ophelia
to Laertes) has not many superiors in its particular kind.

[Sidenote: Other tale-collections.]

The fancy for these collections of tales spread widely in the sixteenth century, and a respectable
number of them have found a home in histories of literature. Sometimes they present themselves
honestly as what they are, and sometimes under a variety of disguises, the most extravagant
of which is the title of the rather famous work of Henri Estienne, Apologie pour Hérodote.
Others, more or less fantastic, are the Propos Rustiques and Baliverneries of Noël Du Fail,
a Breton squire (as we should say), and his later Contes d'Eutrapel; the Escraignes Dijonnaises
and other books of Tabourot des Accords; the Matinées and Après Dinées of Cholières, and, the
largest collection of all, the Sérees [Soirées] of the Angevin Guillaume Bouchet,[117] while
after the close of the actual century, but probably representing earlier work, appeared the
above-mentioned Moyen de Parvenir, by turns attributed and denied to Béroalde de Verville.
In all these, without exception, the imitation of Rabelais, in different but unmistakable ways,
is to be found; and in not a few, that of the Heptameron and of Despériers; while not unfrequently
the same tales are found in more than one collection. The fatrasie character--that is to say,
the stuffing together of all sorts of incongruous matter in more or less burlesque style--is
common to all of them; the licence of subject and language to most; and there are hardly any,
except a few mere modernisings of old fabliaux, in which you will not find the famous farrago
of the Renaissance--learning, religious partisanship, war, law, love, almost everything. All
the writers are far below their great master,[118] and none of them has the appeal of the Heptameron.
But the spirit of tale-telling pervades the whole shelf-ful, and there is one more special
point of importance "for us."

[Sidenote: The "provincial" character of these.]

It will be observed that some of them actually display in their titles (such as that of Tabouret's
book as quoted) the fact that they have a definite provinciality in no bad sense: while Bouchet
is as clearly Angevin and Du Fail as distinctly Breton as Des Accords is Burgundian and as
the greatest of all had been Tourangeau. It can scarcely be necessary to point out at great
length what a reinforcement of vigour and variety must have been brought by this plantation
in the different soils of those provinces which have counted for so much--and nearly always
for so much good[119]--in French literature and French things generally. The great danger and
defect of mediaeval writing had been its tendency to fall into schools and ruts, and the "printed
book" (especially such a printed book as Rabelais) was, at least in one way, by no means unlikely
to exercise this bad influence afresh. To this the provincial differences opposed a salutary
variety of manners, speech, local colour, almost everything. Moreover, manners themselves generally--one
of the fairest and most fertile fields of the novel-kingdom--became thus more fully and freely
the object and subject of the tale-teller. Character, in the best and most extensive and intensive
sense of the word, still lagged behind; and as the drama necessarily took that up, it was for
more reasons than one encouraged, as we may say, in its lagging. But meanwhile Amyot and Calvin[120]
and Montaigne were getting the language more fully ready for the prose-writer's use, and the
constant "sophistication" of literature with religion, politics, knowledge of the physical
world in all ways, commerce, familiarity with foreign nations--everything almost that touched
on life--helped to bring on the slow but inevitable appearance of the novel itself. But it
had more influences to assimilate and more steps to go through before it could take full form.

[Sidenote: The Amadis romances.]

No more curious contrast (except, perhaps, the not very dissimilar one which will meet us in
the next chapter) is to be found in the present History, or perhaps in any other, than that
of the matter just discussed with the great body of Amadis romance which, at this same time,
was introduced into French literature by the translation or adaptation of Nicolas Herberay
des Essarts and his continuators. That Herberay[121] deserves, according to the best and most
catholic students of French, a place with the just-mentioned writers among the formers or reformers
of the French tongue, is a point of some importance, but, for us, minor. Of the controversial
part of the Amadis subject it must, as in other cases, be once more unnecessary for us to say
much. It may be laid down as certain, on every principle of critical logic and research, that
the old idea of the Peninsular cycle being borrowed direct from any French original is hopelessly
absurd. There is, notoriously, no external evidence of any such original ever having existed,
and there is an immense improbability against any such original ever having existed. Further,
the internal characteristics of the Spanish romances, though, undoubtedly, they might never
have come into existence at all but for the French, and though there is a very slight "catch-on"
of Amadis itself to the universally popular Arthurian legend, are not in the least like those
of French or English. How the actual texts came into that existence; whether, as used to be
thought at first, after some expert criticism was turned on them, the actual original was Portuguese,
and the refashioned and prolific form Spanish, is again a question utterly beyond bounds for
us. The quality of the romances themselves--their huge vogue being a matter of fact--and the
influence which they exercised on the future development of the novel,--these are the things
that concern us, and they are quite interesting and important enough to deserve a little attention.

[Sidenote: Their characteristics.]

What is certain is that these Spanish romances themselves--which, as some readers at any rate
may be presumed to know, branch out into endless genealogies in the Amadis and Palmerin lines,
besides the more or less outside developments which fared so hardly with the censors of Don
Quixote's library--as well as the later French examples of a not dissimilar type, the capital
instance of which, for literature, is Lord Berners's translation of Arthur of Little Britain--do
show the most striking differences, not merely from the original twelfth- and thirteenth-century
Charlemagne and Arthur productions, but also from intermediate variants and expansions of these.
The most obvious of these discrepancies is the singular amplification of the supernatural elements.
Of course these were not absent in the older romance literature, especially in the Arthurian
cycle. But there they had certain characteristics which might almost deserve the adjective
"critical"--little criticism proper as there was in the Middle Ages. They were very generally
religious, and they almost always had what may be called a poetic restraint about them. The
whole Graal-story is deliberately modelled on Scriptural suggestions; the miracle of reconciliation
and restoration which concludes Amis and Amiles is the work of a duly commissioned angel. There
are giants, but they are introduced moderately and equipped in consonance. The Saint's Life,
which, as it has been contended, exercised so large an influence on the earlier romance, carried
the nature, the poetry, the charm of its supernatural elements into the romance itself.

[Sidenote: Extravagance in incident, nomenclature, etc.]

In the Amadis cycle and in romances like Arthur of Little Britain all this undergoes a change--not
by any means for the better. What has been unkindly, but not perhaps unjustly, called the "conjuror's
supernatural" takes the place of the poet's variety. One of the personages of the Knight of
the Sun is a "Bedevilled Faun," and it is really too much not to say that most of such personages
are bedevilled. In Arthur of (so much the Lesser) Britain there is, if I remember rightly,
a giant whose formidability partly consists in his spinning round on a sort of bedevilled music-stool:
and his class can seldom be met with without three or seven heads, a similarly large number
of legs and hands, and the like. This sort of thing has been put down, not without probability,
to the Oriental suggestion which would come so readily into Spain. It may be so or it may not.
But it certainly imports an element of puerility into romance, which is regrettable, and it
diminishes the dignity and the poetry of the things rather lamentably. Whether it diminishes,
and still more whether it originally diminished the readability of these same things, is quite
another question.

Closely connected with it is the fancy for barbaric names of great length and formidable sound,
such as Famongomadan, Pintiquinestra, and the like--a trait which, if anybody pleases, may
be put down to the distorted echo of more musical[122] appellations in Arabic and other Eastern
tongues, or to a certain childishness, for there is no doubt that the youthful mind delights,
and always has delighted, in such things. The immense length of these romances even in themselves,
and still more with continuations from father to son and grandson, and trains of descendants
sometimes alternately named, can be less charged as an innovation, though there is no doubt
that it established a rule which had only been an exception before. But, as will have been
seen earlier, the continuation of romance genealogically had been not uncommon, and there had
been a constant tendency to lengthen from the positively terse Roland to the prolix fifteenth-century
forms. In fact this went on till the extravagant length of the Scudéry group made itself impossible,
and even afterwards, as all readers of Richardson know, there was reluctance to shorten.

[Sidenote: The "cruel" heroine.]

We have, however, still to notice another peculiarity, and the most important by far as concerns
the history of the novel: this is the ever-increasing tendency to exaggerate the "cruelty"
of the heroine and the sufferings of the lovers. This peculiarity is not specially noticeable
in the earliest and best of the group itself. Amadis suffers plentifully; yet Oriana can hardly
be called "cruel." But of the two heroines of Palmerin, Polisarda does play the part to some
extent, and Miraguarda (whose name it is not perhaps fantastic to interpret as "Admire her
but beware of her") is positively ill-natured. Of course the thing was no more a novelty in
literature than it was in life. The lines--

    And cruel in the New
    As in the Old one,

may certainly be transferred from the geographical world to the historical. But in classical
literature "cruelty" is attributed rather indiscriminately to both sexes. The cliff of Leucas
knew no distinction of sex, and Sappho can be set against Anaxarete. Indeed, it was safer for
men to be cruel than for women, inasmuch as Aphrodite, among her innumerable good qualities,
was very severe upon unkind girls, while one regrets to have to admit that no particular male
deity was regularly "affected" to the business of punishing light o' love men, though Eros-Cupid
may sometimes have done so. The Eastern mistress, for obvious reasons, had not much chance
of playing the Miraguarda part as a rule, though there seems to me more chance of the convention
coming from Arab and Hebrew poetry than from any other source. But in the Arabian Nights at
least, though there are lustful murderesses--eastern Margarets of Burgundy, like Queen Labé
of the Magicians,--there is seldom any "cruelty," or even any tantalising, on the part of the
heroines.

A hasty rememberer of the sufferings of Lancelot and one or two other heroes of the early and
genuine romance might say, "Why go further than this?" But on a little examination the cases
will be found very different. Neither Iseult nor Guinevere is cruel to her lover; Orgueilleuse
has a fair excuse in difference of rank and slight acquaintance; persons like Tennyson's Ettarre,
still more his Vivien, are "sophisticated"--as we have pointed out already. Besides, Vivien
and Ettarre are frankly bad women, which is by no means the case with the Polisardas and Miraguardas.
They, if they did not introduce the thing--which is, after all, as the old waterman in Jacob
Faithful says, "Human natur',"--established and conventionalised the Silvius and Phoebe relation
of lover and mistress. If Lancelot is banished more than once or twice, it is because of Guinevere's
real though unfounded jealousy, not of any coquettish "cruelty" on her part; if Partenopeus
nearly perishes in his one similar banishment, it is because of his own fault--his fault great
and inexcusable. But the Amadisian heroes, as a rule--unless they belong to the light o' love
Galaor type, which would not mind cruelty if it were exercised, but would simply laugh and
ride away--are almost painfully faithful and deserving; and their sojourns in Tenebrous Isles,
their encounters with Bedevilled Fauns, and the like, are either pure misfortunes or the deliberate
results of capricious tyranny on the part of their mistresses.

Now of course this is the sort of thing which may be (and as a matter of fact it no doubt was)
tediously abused; but it is equally evident that in the hands of a novelist of genius, or even
of fair talent and craftsmanship, it gives opportunity for extensive and ingenious character-drawing,
and for not a little "polite conversation." If la donna è mobile generally, she has very special
opportunities of exhibiting her mobility in the exercise of her caprice: and if it is the business
of the lover (as it is of minorities, according to a Right Honourable politician) to suffer,
the amoureux transi who has some wits and some power of expression can suffer to the genteelest
of tunes with the most ingenious fugues and variations. A great deal of the actual charm of
sixteenth- and seventeenth-century poetry in all languages comes from the rendering in verse
of this very relation of woman and man. We owe to the "dear Lady Disdain" idea not merely Beatrice,
but Beatrix long after her, and many another good thing both in verse and in prose between
Shakespeare and Thackeray.

In the Amadis group (as in its slightly modernised successor, that of the Grand Cyrus), the
handling is so preposterously long and the reliefs of dialogue and other things frequently
managed with so little skill, that, except for sheer passing of time, the books have been found
difficult to read. The present writer's knowledge of Spanish is too sketchy to enable him to
read them in the original with full comfort. Amadis and Palmerin are legible enough in Southey's
translations, made, as one would expect from him, with all due effort to preserve the language
of the old English versions where possible. But Herberay's sixteenth-century French is a very
attractive and perfectly easy language, thoroughly well suited to the matter. And if anything
that has been said is read as despite to these romances, the reading is wrong. They have grave
faults, but also real delights, and they have no small "place i' the story."[123]

FOOTNOTES:

[110]

[Sidenote: Note on Montaigne.]

This suggestive influence may be found almost as strongly, though shown with less literary
craftsmanship, in Brantôme's successor and to some extent overlapper, Tallemant des Réaux.
And it is almost needless to say that in both subjects for novel treatment "foison," as both
French and English would have said in their time. Nor may it be improper to add that Montaigne
himself, though more indirectly, assisted in speeding the novel. The actual telling of a story
is indeed not his strongest point: the dulness of the Travels, if they were really his (on
which point the present writer cannot help entertaining a possibly unorthodox doubt), would
sufficiently show this. But the great effect which he produced on French prose could not, as
in the somewhat similar case of Dryden in English a century later, but prove of immense aid
to the novelist. Except in the deliberately eccentric style, as in Rabelais' own case, or in
periods such as the Elizabethan and our own, where there is a coterie ready to admire jargon,
you cannot write novels, to interest and satisfy readers, without a style, or a group of styles,
providing easy and clear narrative media. We shall see how, in the next century, writers in
forms apparently still more alien from the novel helped it in the same way.

[111] The character of this Bourbon prince seems to have been very faithfully though not maliciously
drawn by Margaret (for the name, Gallicé pulchrum, is Anglicé pulchrius, and our form may be
permitted in a note) as not ungenial, not exactly ungentlemanly, and by no means hating his
wife or being at all unkind to her, but constantly "hard" on her in speech, openly regarding
infidelity to her as a matter of course, and not a little tinged by the savagery which (one
is afraid) the English wars had helped to introduce among the French nobility; which the religious
wars were deepening, and which, in the times of the Fronde, came almost to its very worst,
and, though somewhat tamed later, lasted, and was no mean cause, if not so great a one as some
think, of the French Revolution. Margaret's love for her brother was ill rewarded in many ways--among
others by brutal scandal--and her later days were embittered by failure to protect the new
learning and the new faith she had patronised earlier. But one never forgets Rabelais' address
to her, or the different but still delightful piece in which Marot is supposed to have commemorated
her Platonic graciousness; while her portrait, though drawn in the hard, dry manner of the
time, and with the tendency of that time to "make a girl's nose a proboscis," is by no means
unsuggestive of actual physical charm.

[112] This phrase, though Biblical, of course, in spirit, is not, so far as I remember, anywhere
found textually in Holy Writ. It may be patristic; in which case I shall be glad of learned
information. It sounds rather like St. Augustine. But I do not think it occurs earlier in French,
and the word impossibilité is not banal in the connection.

[113] The famous phrase "amoureux transi" is simply untranslatable by any single word in English
for the adjective, or rather participle. Its unmetaphorical use is, of course, commonest in
the combination transi de froid, "frozen," and so suggests in the other a lover shivering actually
under his mistress's shut window, or, metaphorically, under her disdain.

[114] The expression (passe oultre) commented on in speaking of Rabelais, and again one which
has no English equivalent.

[115] A very early example of the special sense given to this word in French increasingly during
the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries, of "freethinker" deepening to "atheist."
Johnson's friend, it will be remembered, regarded Philosophy as something to which the irruption
of Cheerfulness was fatal; Butler, as something acquirable by reading Alexander Ross; a famous
ancient saying, as the remembrancer of death; and a modern usage, as something which has brass
and glass "instruments." But it was Hegel, was it not? or Carlyle? who summarised the French
view and its time of prevalence in the phrase, "When every one was a philosopher who did not
believe in the Devil."

[116] His translations of the Andria and of Plato's Lysis; and his verses, the chief charm
of which is to be found in his adoption of the "cut and broken" stanzas which the French Renaissance
loved.

[117] Not to be confused with Jehan Bouchet the poet, a much older man, indeed some twenty
years older than Rabelais, and as dull as Raminagrobis Crétin himself, but the inventor or
discoverer of that agreeable agnomen "Traverseur des Voies Périlleuses" which has been noted above.

[118] Cholières, I think, deserves the prize for sinking lowest.

[119] From all the endless welter of abuse of God's great gift of speech [and writing] about
the French Revolution, perhaps nothing has emerged more clearly than that its evils were mainly
due to the sterilisation of the regular Provincial assemblies under the later monarchy.

[120] A person not bad of blood will always be glad to mention one of the few good sides of
a generally detestable character; and a person of humour must always chuckle at some of the
ways in which Calvin's services to French prose were utilised.

[121] He did not confine his good offices to romances of caballería. In 1539 he turned into
French the Arnalte and Lucenda of Diego de San Pedro (author of the more widely known Carcel
de Amor), a very curious if also rather tedious-brief love-story which had great influence
in France (see Reynier, op. cit. inf. pp. 66-73). This (though M. Reynier did not know it)
was afterwards versified in English by one of our minor Carolines, and will appear in the third
volume of the collected edition of them now in course of publication by the Clarendon Press.

[122] Not always. Nouzhatoul-aouadat is certainly not as musical as Pintiquinestra, though
Nouronnihar as certainly is.

[123]

[Sidenote: Note on Hélisenne de Crenne.]

There should be added here a very curious, and now, if not in its own time, very rare book,
my first knowledge of which I owed to a work already mentioned, M. Gustave Reynier's Le Roman
Sentimental avant l'Astrée (Paris, 1908), though I was able, after this chapter was composed,
to find and read the original in the British Museum. It was first printed in 1538, and bears,
like other books of its time, a disproportionately long title, which may, however, be easily
shortened, "Les Angoisses douloureuses qui procèdent d'Amour ... composées par dame Hélisenne
de Crenne." This Hélisenne or Hélisaine seems to have been a real person: and not the least
of the remarkable group of women authors who illustrate her time in France, though M. Reynier
himself admits that "it is difficult to know exactly who she was." She appears to have been
of Picardy, and other extant and non-extant works are attributed to her. Like almost everybody
of her time she wrote in the extreme rhétoriqueur style--so much so indeed as to lead even
Pasquier into the blunder of supposing that Rabelais hit at her in the dialect of the "Limousin
scholar." The Angoisses, which M. Reynier's acute examination shows to have been written by
some one who must have known Boccaccio's Fiammetta (more than once Frenched about this time),
is, or gives itself out to be, the autobiography of a girl of noble birth who, married at eleven
years old and at first very fond of her husband, becomes at thirteen the object of much courtship
from many gallants. Of these she selects, entirely on the love-at-first-sight principle, a
very handsome young man who passes in the street. She is well read and tries to keep herself
in order by stock examples, classical and romantic, of ill-placed and ill-fated affection.
Her husband (who seems to have been a very good fellow for his time) gives her unconsciously
what should have been the best help of all, by praising her self-selected lover's good looks
and laughing at the young man's habit of staring at her. But she has already spoken frankly
of her own appétit sensuel, and she proceeds to show this in the fashion which makes the fifteenth
century and the early sixteenth a sort of trough of animalism between the altitudes of Mediaeval
and Renaissance passion. Her lover turns out to be an utter cad, boastful, blabbing, and almost
cowardly (he tells her in the usual stolen church interview, Je crains merveilleusement monsieur
votre mari). But it makes not the slightest difference; nor does the at last awakened wrath
of an at last not merely threatened but wideawake husband. Apparently she never has the chance
of being actually guilty, for her husband finally, and very properly, shuts her up in a country
house under strong duennaship. This finishes the first part, but there are two more, which
return to more ancient ways. The lover Guenélic goes off to seek adventures, which he himself
recounts, and acquires considerable improvement in them. He comes back, endeavours to free
his mistress from her captivity, and does actually fly with her; but they are pursued; and
though the lover and a friend of his with the rather Amadisian name of "Quezinstra" do their
best, the heroine dies of weariness and shock, to be followed by her lover.

This latter part is comparatively commonplace. M. Reynier thinks very highly of the first.
It is possible to go with him a certain part of the way, but not, I think, the whole, except
from a purely "naturalist" and not at all "sentimental" point of view. Some bold bad men have,
of course, maintained that when the other sex is possessed by an appétit sensuel this overcomes
everything else, and seems, if not actually to exclude, at any rate by no means always or often
to excite, that accompanying transcendentalism which is not uncommon with men, and which, comprised
with the appetite, makes the love of the great lovers, whether they are represented by Dante
or by Donne, by Shakespeare or by Shelley. Whether this be truth or libel non nostrum est.
But it is certain that Hélisenne, as she represents herself, does not make the smallest attempt
to spiritualise (even in the lowest sense) or inspirit the animality of her affection. She
wants her lover as she might want a pork chop instead of a mutton one; and if she is sometimes
satisfied with seeing him, it is as if she were looking at that pork chop through a restaurateur's
window and finding it better than not seeing it at all and contenting herself with the mutton.
Still this result is probably the result at least as much of want of art as of original misfeeling;
and the book certainly does deserve notice here.

