    "1652. P'd to Thos. Wright for 67 loads of soyle laid on the
    graves in Tothill Fields, wherein 1200 Scotch prisoners, taken
    at the fight at Worcester, were buried; and for other pains
    taken with his teeme of horses, about mending the Sanctuary
    Highway, when Gen. Ireton was buried."

I have taken the pains to verify this extract, and find the figures quite correctly given.
I wish to put the Query: Is this abominable massacre in cold blood mentioned by any of our
historians? But for such unexceptionable evidence, it would appear incredible.

C.F.S.

Adamson's Reign of Edward II.--

    "The Reigns of King Edward II., and so far of King Edward III.,
    as relates to the Lives and Actions of Piers Gaveston, Hugh de
    Spencer, and Roger Lord Mortimer, with Remarks thereon adapted
    to the present Time: Humbly addressed to all his Majesty's
    Subjects of Great Britain, &c., by J. Adamson. Printed for J.
    Millar, near the Horse Guards, 1732, and sold by the Booksellers
    of London and Westminster, price One Shilling."

The above is the title-page of a little work of eighty-six pages in my possession, which I
am inclined to think is scarce. It appears to be a defence of the Walpole administration from
the attacks of the Craftsman, a periodical of the time, conducted by Amhurst, who was supported
by Bolinbroke and Pulteney, the leaders of the opposition. Is anything known of J. Adamson,
the author?

H.A.E.

Sir Thomas Moore.--Can any of your readers give any account of Sir Thomas Moore, beyond what
Victor tells of him in his History of the Theatre, ii. p. 144., "that he was the author of
an absurd tragedy called Mangora (played in 1717), and was knighted by George I."

In Pope's "Epistle to Arbuthnot," he writes--

  "Arthur, whose giddy son leglects the laws."

on which Warburton notes--

  "Arthur Moore, Esq."

Who was Arthur Moore, Esq.? and who was the "giddy son?" Was the latter James Moore Smith a
gentleman whose family name was, I think, Moore, and who assumed (perhaps for a fortune) the
additional name of Smith? This gentleman Pope seems to call indiscriminately Moore, Moor, and
More: and when he says that his good nature towards the dunces was so great that he had even
"rhymed for Moor" (Ib. v. 373.), I cannot but suspect that the Moor for whom he had rhymed,
was the giddy son whom Arthur accused him of seducing from the law to the Muses. There are
many allusions to this Mr. James Moore Smith throughout Pope's satirical works, but all very
obscure; and Warburton, though he appears to have known him, affords no explanation as to who
or what he was. He was the author of a comedy called The Rival Modes.

C.

Dr. E. Cleaver, Bishop of Cork.--I shall feel much obliged to any of your correspondents who
will furnish me with the particulars of the consecration of Dr. Euseby Cleaver to the sees
of Cork and Ross, in March, April, or May, 1789. Finding no record of the transaction in the
Diocesan Registry of Cork, and not being able to trace it in any other part of Ireland, I am
induced to believe that this consecration may have taken place in England; and shall be very
glad to be correctly informed upon the point.

H. COTTON.

Thurles, Ireland.

Gwynn's London and Westminster.--Mr. Thomas Frederick Hunt, in his Exemplars of Tudor Architecture,
4to.

And Mr. Hunt concludes by observing,, that--

    "This discovery was made by the Literary Gazette."

§N.

Coronet.--In Newbold Church, in the county of Warwick, is a monument to the memory of Thomas
Boughton of Lawford, and Elizabeth his wife, representing him in a suit of armour, with sword
and spurs, a coronet on his head, and a bear at his feet, chained and muzzled. Query.--Can
any of your readers give an accurate description of this coronet? Or can any of them mention
instances of the monuments of esquires having similar coronets? The date of his death is not
given: his wife died in the year 1454.

Z.

Cinderella.--Referring to Vol. ii., p. 214., allow me to ask in what edition of Perrault's
Fairy Tales the misprint of verre from vair first occurs? what is the date of their first publication,
as well as that of the translation under the title of Mother Goose's Tales? whether Perrault
was the originator of Cinderella, or from what source he drew the tale? {298} what, moreover,
is the authority for identifying sable with vair for the employment of either in designating
the highest rank of princesses?

SANDVICENSIS.

Judas' Bell, Judas' Candle (Vol. i., pp. 195. 235. 357.).--Some time since I asked the meaning
of a Judas' Bell, and your learned correspondent CEPHAS replied that it was only a bell so
christened after St. Jude, the apostle. However, it may have been connected with the Judas'
tapers, which, according, to the subjoined entries, were used with the Paschal candle at Easter.
May I trust to his kindness to explain its purport?

    "Reading Parish Accompts.

    "1499. Itm. payed for making leng' Mr. Smyth's molde wt. a Judas
    for the Pascall--vJd."

    "St. Giles' Parish Accompts.

    "A.D. 1514. Paid for making a Judas for Pascall iiijd."

    "Churchwardens' Accompts of S. Martin, Outwich.

    "1510. Paid to Randolf Merchaunt Wex Chandiler for the Pascall,
    the tapers affore the Rode, the Cross Candelles, and Judas
    Candelles--viiijs. iiijd."

    "St. Margaret's, Westminster.

    "1524. Item payed for xij. Judacis to stand with the tapers--O
    ijd. O"

MACKENZIE WALCOTT, M.A., Oxon.

Dozen of Bread; Baker's Dozen.--In the Chronicle of Queen Jane, and of Two Years of Queen Mary,
lately printed for the Camden Society (Appendix iv. p. 112.), it is stated that, amongst other
particulars in the accounts of the Chamberlain of Colchester, at which place Mary was entertained
on her way to London, there is:--"For xxxviii. dozen of bread, xxxixs." In the language of
the county from which I write, "a dozen of bread" was (and I believe is yet) used to express
either one loaf, value twelvepence or two loaves, value sixpence each: and even when the sizes
and price of the loaves varied, it was used to express the larger loaf, or the two smaller
loaves. A dozen of bread was also divided into six twopenny, or twelve penny loaves.

But in the quotation above, thirty-eight dozen of bread are charged thirty-nine shillings;
whereas the extra one shilling, cannot be divided into aliquot parts, so as to express the
value of each of the thirty-eight dozen of bread.

What was a dozen of bread in 1553?

What is a baker's dozen, and why so called?

P.H.F.

Kongs skuggsia.--Is anything, precise known of the date and origin of the Icelandic Kongs skuggsia.

F.Q.

Coins of Gandophares.--Coins of Gandophares, an Indian prince, are described by Prinsep, Jour.
Asiatic Soc. Bengal, and in Wilson's Asiana. The name is met with in the legends of St. Thomas
can it be found elsewhere?

F.Q.

Satirical Medals.--Is any printed account to be found of a very elaborately executed series
of caricature medals relating to the revolution of 1688?

F.Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

GAUDENTIO DI LUCCA.

(Vol. ii., p. 247.)

The work entitled The Adventures of Sig. Gaudentio di Lucca was published at London in 1737,
in 1 vol. 8vo. It purports to be a translation from the Italian, by E.T. Gent but this is a
mere fiction. The work is evidently an English composition. It belongs to the class of Voyages
Imaginaires, and its main object is to describe the institutions and manners of the Mezoranians,
an Utopian community, supposed to exist in the centre of Africa. Sig. Gaudentio is able, by
an accident, to visit this people, by the way of Egypt, and to return to Europe; he resides
at Bologna, where he falls under the suspicion of the Inquisition, and having been brought
before that tribunal, he describes his former life, and his adventures in the country of the
Mezoranians.

A second London edition of this work, of the date of 1748, is mentioned in the Gentleman's
Magazine for Jan. 1777. There is an edition in 12mo., printed at Edinburgh, 1761. And there
is another London edition, in 8vo., of the year 1786. Copies of the editions of 1737 and 1786
are in the British Museum.

There are two French translations of the work. One is of the date 1746, under the title of
Mémoires de Gaudentio di Lucca. The second, of 1754, by M. Dupuy Demportes, speaks of the first
having been made by an Englishman named Milts; but the person and name appear to be fictitious.
The first translation is said by Barbier, Dict. des Anonymes, No. 11,409, to have been revised
by the Chevalier de Saint Germain, who made additions to it of his own invention. The second
translation is reprinted in the collection of Voyages Imaginaires, Amsterdam et Paris, 1787,
tom. vi.

An anonymous writer in the Gent. Mag. for Jan. 1777, vol. xlvii., p. 13., speaking of Bishop
Berkeley, says that "the Adventures of Signor Gaudentio di Lucca have been generally attributed
to him." The writer of the note added to the Life of Berkeley in Kippis's Biogr. Brit., 1780,
vol. ii. p. 261., quotes this statement, and adds that the work is ascribed to him by the booksellers
in their printed catalogues. This writer thinks that the authorship of Bp. Berkeley is consistent
with the internal evidence of the book but he furnishes no positive testimony on the subject. {299}

In a letter from Mr. J.C. Walker to Mr. Pinkerton, of 19 Jan., 1799 (published in Pinkerton's
Literary Correspondence, vol. ii., p. 41.), Lord Charlemont is referred to as believing that
Gaudentio di Lucca is founded in fact; that Bishop Berkeley, when he was at Cairo, conversed
with persons who had attended a caravan, and that he learned from them what he narrated in
the account of Gaudentio. This passage is cited in Southey's Common-place Book, p. 204; but
the work is manifestly fictitious, and it does not appear that Berkeley, though he twice visited
the Continent, was ever out of Europe.

The date of the publication of Gaudentio is quite consistent with the authorship of Berkeley,
who died in 1753; but the notice in the Gentleman's Magazine only proves the existence of a
rumour to that effect; and the authentic Life of Berkeley, by Dr. Stock, chiefly drawn up from
materials communicated by Dr. R. Berkeley, brother to the Bishop, and prefixed to the collected
edition of his work (2 vols. 4to. Lond., 1784), makes no allusion to Gaudentio. There is nothing
in the contents of this work which renders it likely that the authorship should have been carefully
concealed by Bp. Berkeley and his family, if he had really been the author. The literary execution
of Gaudentio is good; and it is probable that the speculative character of the work, and the
fact that Berkeley had visited Italy, suggested the idea that he had composed it. The belief
that Bishop Berkeley was the author of Gaudentio di Lucca may therefore be considered as unauthorised.

The copy of the edition of Gaudentio of 1786, which is preserved in the British Museum, contains
in the title-page the following note, in pencil:

    "Written originally in English by Dr. Swale of Huntingdon. See
    Gent. Mag. 1786."

The Gentleman's Magazine for 1786 does not, however, contain any information about the authorship
of Gaudentio; and the name of Dr. Swale appears to be unknown in literary history. At the same
time, a positive entry of this sort, with respect to an obscure person, doubtless had some
foundation. On the authority of this note, Dr. Swale is registered as the author of Gaudentio
in the printed catalogue of the British Museum Library, whence it has passed into Watt's Bibl.
Brit. Perhaps some of your correspondents, who are connected with Huntingdon, may be able to
throw some light on Dr. Swale.

Lastly, it should be added, that the writer of the article "Berkeley," in the Biographic Universelle,
adverts to the fact that Gaudentio di Lucca has been attributed to him: he proceeds, however,
to say that--

    "The author of a Life of Berkeley affirms that Berkeley is not
    the author of that book, which he supposes to have been written
    by a Catholic priest imprisoned in the Tower of London."

I have been unable to trace the origin of this statement; nor do I know what is the Life of
Berkeley, to which the writer in the Biogr. Univ. refers. The Life published under the direction
of his family makes no allusion to Gaudentio, or to the belief that it was composed by Bishop
Berkeley.

The Encyclopédie Méthodique, div. "Econ. pol. et dipl." (Paris, 1784), tom. I. p. 89., mentions
the following work:--

    "La République des Philosophes, ou l'Histoire des Ajaoiens,
    relation d'un voyage du Chevalier S. van Doelvett en Orient en
    l'an 1674, qui contient la description du Gouvernement, de la
    Religion, et des Moeurs des Ajaoiens."

It is stated that this romance, though composed a century before, had only been lately published.
The editor attributed it to Fontenelle, but (as the writer in the Encycl. Méth. thinks) probably
without reason. The title of Berkeley to the authorship of Gaudentio has doubtless no better
foundation.

L.

[Dunlop, Hist. Fiction, iii. 491., speaks of this romance as "generally, and I believe on good
grounds, supposed to be the work of the celebrated Berkeley;" adding, "we are told, in the
life of this celebrated man, that Plato was his favourite author: and, indeed, of all English
writers Berkeley has most successfully imitated the style and manner of that philosopher. It
is not impossible, therefore, that the fanciful republic of the Grecian sage may have led Berkeley
to write Gaudentio di Lucca, of which the principal object apparently is to describe a faultless
and patriarchal form of governnent." The subject is a very curious one, and invites the further
inquiry of our valued correspondent.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN "THE TEMPEST."

I was indebted to MR. SINGER for one of the best emendations in the edition of Shakspeare I
superintended (vol. vi. p. 559.), and I have too much respect for his sagacity and learning
to pass, without observation, his remarks in "NOTES AND QUERIES" (Vol. ii., p. 259.), on the
conclusion of the speech of Ferdinand, in "The Tempest," Act iii., Sc. 1.:--

  "But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours;
   Most busy, least when I do it."

This is the way in which I ventured to print the passage, depending mainly upon the old copies.
In the folio, 1623, where the play for the first time appeared, the last line stands:

  "Most busie lest, when I doe it;"

and in that of 1632,

  "Most busie least, when I doe it:" {300}

so that the whole merit I claim that of altering the place of a comma, thereby, as I apprehend,
rendering the meaning of the poet evident. The principle upon which I proceeded throughout
was that of making as little variation as possible from the ancient authorities: upon that
principle I acted in the instance in question, and I frequently found that this was the surest
mode of removing difficulties. I could not easily adduce a stronger proof of this position,
than the six words on which the doubt at this time has been raised.

Theobald made an important change in the old text, and his reading has been that generally
adopted:--

  "Most busy-less when I do it."

In restoring the old text I had, therefore, to contend with prepossession, against which, it
seems, the Rev. Mr. Dyce was not proof, although I only know it from MR. SINGER'S letter, never
having looked into the book in which I suppose, the opinion is advanced.

One reason why I should reject the substitution of "busy-less," even if I had not a better
mode of overcoming the difficulty, is properly adverted to by MR. SINGER, viz. that the word
was not in use in the time of Shakspeare. The only authority for it, at any period, quoted
in Todd's Johnson, is this very (as I contend) corrupted passage in the Tempest; I have not
met with it at all in any of the older dictionaries I have been able to consult; and unless
the Rev. Mr. Dyce have been more fortunate, he was a little short-sighted, as well as a little
angry, when he wrote his note upon mine. Had he taken more time to reflect, he might have found
that after all Theobald and I are not so much at odds, although he arrives at his end by varying
from, and I at mine by adhering to, the ancient authorities. In fact, I gain some confirmation
of what, I believe, is the true meaning of Shakspeare, out of the very corruption Theobald
introduced, and the Rev. Mr. Dyce, to my surprise, supports. I should have expected him to
be the very last man who would advocate an abandonment of what has been handed down to us in
every old edition of the play.

The key of the whole speech of Ferdinand is contained in its very outset:--

  "There be some sports are painful, and their labour
  Delight in them sets off;"

and the poet has said nearly the same thing in "Macbeth:"

  "The labour we delight in physics pain."

He, therefore, tells us, at the close, that his labours are refreshed by the sweet thoughts
of her; that, in fact, his toil is no toil, and that when he is "most busy" he "least does
it," and suffers least under it. The delight he takes in his "mean task" renders it none.

Such I take to be the clear meaning of the poet, though somewhat obscurely and paradoxically
expressed--

  "Most busy, least when I do it;"

and when Theobald proposed to substitute

  "Most busy-less when I do it,"

he saw, though perhaps not quite distinctly, that such was the poet's intention, only, as I
have said above, he arrived at it by altering, and I by adhering to, the poet's language. I
may be allowed to add that I came to my conclusion many years before I was asked to put my
name to an edition of Shakspeare, which interrupted one of the most valuable friendships I
ever formed.

MR. SINGER will see at once that my interpretation (which I consider quite consistent with
the character of Shakspeare's mind, as well as quite consistent with the expressions he has
used throughout the speech of the hero), steers clear of his proposal to alter "busie lest,"
or "busie least," of the folios of 1623 and 1632, to busyest or busiest; although everybody
at all acquainted with our old language will agree with him in thinking, that if Shakspeare
had used "busiest" at all, which he does not in any of his productions, he might have said
most busiest without a violation of the constant practice of his day.

J. PAYNE COLLIER.

September 24. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAY'S ELEGY.

Perhaps the HERMIT of HOLYPORT will be satisfied with proofs from GRAY himself as to the time
and manner of the first appearance of the Elegy.

GRAY thus writes to Dr. Wharton, under the date of "Dec. 17, 1750." [I quote Mason's "Life"
of its Author, p. 216.]

    "The stanzas" [which he afterwards called Elegy at the
    suggestion of Mason] "which I now enclose to you have had the
    misfortune, by Mr. [Horace] Walpole's fault, to be made
    still more public," &c.

The next letter in Mason's publication is a letter from "Mr. Gray to Mr. Walpole"

It contains six poems, one being the Elegy. I have before me a copy of this collection, which
is folio. The plates are clever, and very curious; a copy was sold at the Fonthill sale for
3l. 4s.! The copy, admirably bound, which I quote, was bought at a bookseller's front-window
stall for 4s. The title of this collection is "Designs by Mr. R. BENTLEY, for six poems by
Mr. J. GRAY."

According to the title-page, it was "printed for R. DODSLEY, in Pall Mall, MDCCLIII.," two
years previously to the date to which your correspondent refers. This (1753) collection gives
the line,--

  "Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight."

In the Elegant Extracts (verse), ed. 1805, which, it must be needless to mention, was prepared
by the able and indefatigable Dr. Vicesimus Knox, the accomplished scholar gives the line--

  "Save where the beetle wheels his drony flight."

Dr. Johnson's Dictionary does not insert the word "droning" or "drony;" but among his Illustrations
attached to the verb "to drone," there are two from Dryden, each, it may be seen, using the
word "droning." There is no quotation containing the word "drony."

Johnson's second quotation from Dryden may be worth repeating, as showing that Gray's language
is not wholly different from his predecessor's:--

          "Melfoil and honeysuckles pound,
  With these alluring savours strew the ground,
  And mix with tinkling brass the cymbal's droning sound."

It is perhaps hardly worth noticing, that there is not uniformity even in the title. Johnson
calls it, Elegy in the Church-yard; Dodsley (1753) styles it, Elegy written in a Country Church-yard.

A HERMIT AT HAMPSTEAD.

Gray's Elegy (Vol. ii., p. 264.).--The HERMIT OF HOLYPORT is referred to the 4to. edit. of
the Works of Gray, by Thos. Jas. Mathias, in which, vol. i. at the end of the Elegy, in print,
he will find "From the original in the handwriting of Thos. Gray:

  "'Save where the beetle wheels his droning flight.'"

From the autograph the Elegy appears to have been written in 1750; and the margin states, published
in Feb. 1751, by Dodsley, and went through four editions in two months; and afterwards a fifth,
sixth, seventh and eighth, ninth and tenth, and eleventh; printed also in 1753, with Mr. Bentley's
designs, of which there is a second edition; and again by Dodsley in his Miscellany, vol. iv.;
and in a Scotch collection, called the Union. Translated into Latin by Chr. Anstey, Esq., and
the Rev. Mr. Roberts, and published in 1762; and again in the same year by Rob. Lloyd, M.A.
The original MS. of the above will be found among the MSS. of Thos. Gray, in the possession
of the Masters and Fellows of Pembroke House, Cambridge.

W.S.

Richmond, Sept 21. 1850

       *       *       *       *       *

BISHOPS AND THEIR PRECEDENCE. (Vol. ii., p. 254.)

Arun is not right, in reference to this Query, in saying that the precedence of bishops over
the temporal barons is regulated by the statute of 31 Hen. VIII. The precedence of bishops
over the temporal lords is not regulated by the Act of 31 Hen. VIII. for placing the lords.
They may have originally been summoned to sit in parliament in right of their succession to
certain baronial lands annexed to, or supposed to be annexed to their episcopal sees; but as
some of the temporal peers were also summoned in right of lands held of the king per baroniam,
that is not a satisfactory reason why they should take precedence of temporal barons.

The precedency must have been regulated by some other laws, rules, or usage than are presented
by the Act of 31 Hen. VIII. This precedency, however, is not given by the statute. The Act
provides only, in reference to the spiritual peers, that the Vicegerent for good and due ministration
of justice, to be had in all causes and cases touching the ecclesiastical jurisdiction, and
for the godly reformation and redress of all errors, heresies, and abuses in the {302} Church
(and all other persons having grant of the said office), shall sit and be placed in all parliaments
on the right side of the parliament chamber, and upon the same form that the Archbishop of
Canterbury sitteth on, and above the same archbishop and his successors; and next to the said
Vicegerent shall sit the Archbishop of Canterbury; and then, next to him, on the same form
and side, shall sit the Archbishop of York; and next to him, on the same form and side, the
Bishop of London; and next to him, on the same side and form, the Bishop of Durham; and next
to him, on the same side and form, the Bishop of Winchester; and then all the other bishops
of both provinces of Canterbury and York shall sit and be placed on the same side, after their
ancienties, as it hath been accustomed.

There is nothing here to show in what order they are to rank among the great officers, or other
temporal peers; nor is the precedency given to the Lord Chancellor over the Archbishop of York.

By the Act of Union of Great Britain and Ireland, the archbishops of that kingdom have rank
immediately after the Archbishop of York, and therefore before the great officers (excepting
only the Lord Chancellor), as well as above dukes; and the Irish bishops immediately after
those of England.

It may be rightly stated that the high spiritual rank of the bishops is a reason for giving
them precedence over the temporal lords sitting as barons; but has that reason been assigned
by any writer of authority, or even any writer upon precedence?--the Query suggested by E.
(Vol. ii., p. 9.) Lord Coke does not assign that reason, but says, because they hold their
bishopricks of the king per baroniam. But the holding per baroniam, as before observed, would
equally apply to the temporal lords holding lands by similar tenures, and sitting by writ,
and receiving summons in ancient times in virtue of such their tenure.

The precedence of bishops over barons was clearly disputed in the reign of King Henry VI.,
when Baker says in his Chronicle (p. 204.), judgment was given for the lords temporal; but
where the judgment, or any account of the dispute for precedence, is to be found I cannot say.
That is what your correspondent G. inquired for (Vol. ii., p. 76.).

C.G.

Your correspondent ARUN (Vol. ii., p. 254.) states, on the authority of Stephen's Blackstone,
that--

    "Bishops are temporal barons, and sit in the House of Peers in
    right of succession to certain ancient baronies annexed or
    supposed to be annexed to their episcopal lands."

This position, though supported by Lord Coke in more places than one (see Coke upon Littleton,
134. a, b; 3 Inst. 30.; 4 Inst. 44.), and adopted by most other legal text-writers on his authority,
cannot, it is conceived, be supported. It seems to be clearly ascertained that bishops sat
in the great councils of this and other kingdoms not ratione baroniarum but jure ecclesiarum,
by custom, long before the tenure per baroniam was known. In the preambles to the laws of Ina
(Wilkins' Leges Ang.-Sax. f. 14.), of Athelstan (ib. 54.), of Edmund (ib. 72.), the bishops
are mentioned along with others of the great council, whilst the tenure per baroniam was not
known until after the Conquest. The truth seems to be that

    "The bishops of the Conqueror's age were entitled to sit in his
    councils by the general custom of Europe and by the common law
    of England, which the conquest did not overturn."--Hallam's
    Mid. Ag. 137-8, 9th ed.

Can any of your readers throw any light on the much disputed tenure per baroniam? What was
its essential character, what its incidents, and in what way did it differ from the ordinary
tenure in capite?

BARO.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

