The crew of the man of war sleep on the deck which is next under the gun deck, while our destination
was on the deck under that. It was to the ship what the cellar is to a house. It was under
water, and of course, without windows, or air holes. All the air and light came through the
hatch way, a sort of trap door or cellar way. In this floating dungeon, we miserable young
men spent our first night, in sleepless anguish, embittered with the apprehension of our suffering
cruel death by suffocation. Here the black hole of Calcutta rose to my view in all its horrors;
and the very thought stopped my respiration, and set my brain on fire. In my distress, I stamped
with my feet, and beat my head against the side of the ship in the madness of despair. I measured
the misery of those around me by what I myself suffered. Shut up in the dark with ninety-nine
distressed young men, like so many galley slaves, or Guinea negroes, excluded from the benefit
of the common air, without one ray of light or comfort, and without a single word expressive
of compassion from any officer of the ship. I never was so near sinking into despair. We naturally
cling to life, but now I should have welcomed death. To be confined, and even chained any where
in the light of the sun, is a distressing thing, especially to very young men, but to be crowded
into a dirty hole in the dark, where there was no circulation of air is beyond expression horrible.
Perhaps my study of the human frame, and my knowledge of the vital property of the air, and
of the philosophy of the vital functions, may have added to my distress. I remembered what
I had read and learnt in the course of my education, viz: that every full grown person requires
forty-eight thousand cubic inches of air in an hour, or one million, one hundred and fifty-two
thousand cubic inches in the course of a day; and that if this is once received into the lungs
and breathed out again, it cannot be breathed a second time, till it is mixed with the common
atmospheric air. When I considered that our number amounted to an hundred, I could not drive
from my mind this calculation, and the result of it nearly deprived me of my reason. The horrors
of the Black Hole of Calcutta have been long celebrated, because Englishmen suffered and perished
in it. Now the English have more than a thousand black holes into which they unfeelingly thrust
their impressed men, and their prisoners of war. Their tenders that lay in the Thames, off
Tower-wharf, are so many black holes into which they thrust their own people, whom their press
gangs seize in the streets of London, and crowd into them like so many live rabbits or chickens
carrying in a cart to market. My reflections on these things have greatly changed my opinion
of the English character in point of humanity.

After passing a wretched night, one of the petty officers came down to us, by which event we
learnt that it was morning. I found myself much indisposed; my tongue was dry and coated with
a furr; my head ached violently, and I felt no inclination to take any thing but cold water.
A degree of calmness, however, prevailed among my fellow prisoners. They found lamentations
unavailing, and complaints useless. Few of them, beside myself, had lost their appetites, and
several expressed a wish for some breakfast. Preparations were soon made for this delicious
repast. The first step was to divide us into messes, six in a mess. To each mess was given
a wooden kid, or piggin, as our farmers call them, because it is out of such wooden vessels
that they feed their pigs that are fatting for the market. At 8 o'clock one was called from
each mess, by the whistle of the boatswain's mate, to attend at the galley, the nautical name
for the kitchen and fire place, to receive the breakfast for the rest. But what was our disappointment
to find instead of coffee, which we were allowed by our own government at Melville prison,
a piggin of swill, for we farmers' sons can give no other name to the disgusting mess they
brought us. This breakfast was a pint of liquid which they call Burgoo, which is a kind of
oatmeal gruel, about the consistence of the swill which our farmers give their hogs, and not
a whit better in its quality. It is made of oatmeal, which we Americans very generally detest.
Our people consider ground oats as only fit for cattle, and it is never eaten by the human
species in the United States. It is said that this oatmeal porridge was introduced to the British
prisons by the Scotch influence, and we think that none but hogs and Scotchmen ought to eat
it. A mess more repellant to a Yankee's stomach could not well be contrived. It is said, however,
that the highlanders are very fond of it, and that the Scotch physicians extol it as a very
wholesome and nutritious food, and very nicely calculated for the sedentary life of a prisoner:
but by what we have heard, we are led to believe, that oatmeal is the staple commodity of Scotland,
and that the highly favoured Scotch have the exclusive privilege of supplying the miserable
creatures whom the fortune of war has thrown into the hands of the English, with this national
dish, so delicious to Scotchmen, and so abhorrent to an American.

Excepting this pint of oatmeal porridge, we had nothing more to eat or drink until dinner time;
when we were served with a pint of pea-water. Our allowance for the week, for it is difficult
to calculate it by the day, was four and a half pounds of bread, two and a quarter pounds of
beef or pork, one and a quarter pounds of flour, and the pea-water, which they called "soup,"
five days in every week. Now let any man of knowledge and observation judge, whether the portion
of food here allotted to each man was sufficient to preserve him from the exquisite tortures
of hunger; and perhaps there is no torture more intolerable to young men not yet arrived to
their full growth. We had been guilty of no crime. We had been engaged in the service of our
dear country, and deserved applause, and not torture. And be it forever remembered, that the
Americans always feed their prisoners well, and treat them with humanity.

The Regulus, for that is the name of the ship we were in, is, if I mistake not, an old line
of battle ship, armed en flute, that is, her lower deck was fitted up with bunks, or births,
so large as to contain six men in a birth. The only passages for light or air were through
the main and fore hatches, which were covered with a grating, at which stood, day and night,
a sentinel. The communication between our dungeon and the upper deck was only through the main
hatch way, by means of a rope ladder, that could be easily cut away at a moment's warning,
should the half starved American prisoners ever conclude to rise and take the ship, which the
brave British tars seemed constantly apprehensive of. You may judge of their apprehensions
by their extraordinary precautions--they had a large store of muskets in their tops to be ready
for their marines and crew, should we Yankees drive them from the hull to seek safety above.
They had two carronades loaded with grape and canister shot on the poop, pointing forward,
with a man at each; and strict orders were given not to hold any conversation with the Americans,
under the penalty of the severest chastisement. However improbable the thing may appear, we
discussed the matter very seriously and repeatedly among ourselves, and compared the observations
we made when on deck, in our council chamber under water. It seems that the British are apprized
of the daring spirit of the Americans; they watch them with as much dread as if they were so
many tigers.

