At the outset, its pretensions were very slender, for the earliest men of learning, who were
both poets and orators, may be considered as half-Greek: I speak of Livius [844] and Ennius
[845], who are acknowledged to have taught both languages as well at Rome as in foreign parts
[846].  But they (507) only translated from the Greek, and if they composed anything of their
own in Latin, it was only from what they had before read.  For although there are those who
say that this Ennius published two books, one on "Letters and Syllables," and the other on
"Metres," Lucius Cotta has satisfactorily proved that they are not the works of the poet Ennius,
but of another writer of the same name, to whom also the treatise on the "Rules of Augury"
is attributed.

II.  Crates of Mallos [847], then, was, in our opinion, the first who introduced the study
of grammar at Rome.  He was cotemporary with Aristarchus [848], and having been sent by king
Attalus as envoy to the senate in the interval between the second and third Punic wars [849],
soon after the death of Ennius [850], he had the misfortune to fall into an open sewer in the
Palatine quarter of the city, and broke his leg. After which, during the whole period of his
embassy and convalescence, he gave frequent lectures, taking much pains to instruct his hearers,
and he has left us an example well worthy of imitation.  It was so far followed, that poems
hitherto little known, the works either of deceased friends or other approved writers, were
brought to light, and being read and commented on, were explained to others.  Thus, Caius Octavius
Lampadio edited the Punic War of Naevius [851], which having been written in one volume without
any break in the manuscript, he divided into seven books. After that, Quintus Vargonteius undertook
the Annals of Ennius, which he read on certain fixed days to crowded audiences.  So Laelius
Archelaus, and Vectius Philocomus, read and commented on the Satires of their friend Lucilius
[852], which Lenaeus Pompeius, a freedman, tells us he studied under Archelaus; and Valerius
Cato, under Philocomus.  Two others also taught and promoted (508) grammar in various branches,
namely, Lucius Aelius Lanuvinus, the son-in-law of Quintus Aelius, and Servius Claudius, both
of whom were Roman knights, and men who rendered great services both to learning and the republic.

III.  Lucius Aelius had a double cognomen, for he was called Praeconius, because his father
was a herald; Stilo, because he was in the habit of composing orations for most of the speakers
of highest rank; indeed, he was so strong a partisan of the nobles, that he accompanied Quintus
Metellus Numidicus [853] in his exile.  Servius [854] having clandestinely obtained his father-in-law's
book before it was published, was disowned for the fraud, which he took so much to heart, that,
overwhelmed with shame and distress, he retired from Rome; and being seized with a fit of the
gout, in his impatience, he applied a poisonous ointment to his feet, which half-killed him,
so that his lower limbs mortified while he was still alive.  After this, more attention was
paid to the science of letters, and it grew in public estimation, insomuch, that men of the
highest rank did not hesitate in undertaking to write something on the subject; and it is related
that sometimes there were no less than twenty celebrated scholars in Rome.  So high was the
value, and so great were the rewards, of grammarians, that Lutatius Daphnides, jocularly called
"Pan's herd" [855] by Lenaeus Melissus, was purchased by Quintus Catullus for two hundred thousand
sesterces, and shortly afterwards made a freedman; and that Lucius Apuleius, who was taken
into the pay of Epicius Calvinus, a wealthy Roman knight, at the annual salary of ten thousand
crowns, had many scholars.  Grammar also penetrated into the provinces, and some of the most
eminent amongst the learned taught it in foreign parts, particularly in Gallia Togata.  In
the number of these, we may reckon Octavius (509) Teucer, Siscennius Jacchus, and Oppius Cares
[856], who persisted in teaching to a most advanced period of his life, at a time when he was
not only unable to walk, but his sight failed.

IV.  The appellation of grammarian was borrowed from the Greeks; but at first, the Latins called
such persons literati.  Cornelius Nepos, also, in his book, where he draws a distinction between
a literate and a philologist, says that in common phrase, those are properly called literati
who are skilled in speaking or writing with care or accuracy, and those more especially deserve
the name who translated the poets, and were called grammarians by the Greeks.  It appears that
they were named literators by Messala Corvinus, in one of his letters, when he says, "that
it does not refer to Furius Bibaculus, nor even to Sigida, nor to Cato, the literator," [857]
meaning, doubtless, that Valerius Cato was both a poet and an eminent grammarian.  Some there
are who draw a distinction between a literati and a literator, as the Greeks do between a grammarian
and a grammatist, applying the former term to men of real erudition, the latter to those whose
pretensions to learning are moderate; and this opinion Orbilius supports by examples.  For
he says that in old times, when a company of slaves was offered for sale by any person, it
was not customary, without good reason, to describe either of them in the catalogue as a literati,
but only as a literator, meaning that he was not a proficient in letters, but had a smattering
of knowledge.

The early grammarians taught rhetoric also, and we have many of their treatises which include
both sciences; whence it arose, I think, that in later times, although the two professions
had then become distinct, the old custom was retained, or the grammarians introduced into their
teaching some of the elements required for public speaking, such as the problem, the periphrasis,
the choice of words, description of character, and the like; in order that they might not transfer
(510) their pupils to the rhetoricians no better than ill-taught boys.  But I perceive that
these lessons are now given up in some cases, on account of the want of application, or the
tender years, of the scholar, for I do not believe that it arises from any dislike in the master.
I recollect that when I was a boy it was the custom of one of these, whose name was Princeps,
to take alternate days for declaiming and disputing; and sometimes he would lecture in the
morning, and declaim in the afternoon, when he had his pulpit removed.  I heard, also, that
even within the memories of our own fathers, some of the pupils of the grammarians passed directly
from the schools to the courts, and at once took a high place in the ranks of the most distinguished
advocates.  The professors at that time were, indeed, men of great eminence, of some of whom
I may be able to give an account in the following chapters.

    What Saevius Nicanor, the freedman of Marcus, will deny,
    The same Saevius, called also Posthumius Marcus, will assert.

It is reported, that in consequence of some infamy attached to his character, he retired to
Sardinia, and there ended his days.

VI.  AURELIUS OPILIUS [859], the freedman of some Epicurean, first taught philosophy, then
rhetoric, and last of all, grammar.  (511) Having closed his school, he followed Rutilius Rufus,
when he was banished to Asia, and there the two friends grew old together.  He also wrote several
volumes on a variety of learned topics, nine books of which he distinguished by the number
and names of the nine Muses; as he says, not without reason, they being the patrons of authors
and poets.  I observe that its title is given in several indexes by a single letter, but he
uses two in the heading of a book called Pinax.

VII.  MARCUS ANTONIUS GNIPHO [860], a free-born native of Gaul, was exposed in his infancy,
and afterwards received his freedom from his foster-father; and, as some say, was educated
at Alexandria, where Dionysius Scytobrachion [861] was his fellow pupil.  This, however, I
am not very ready to believe, as the times at which they flourished scarcely agree.  He is
said to have been a man of great genius, of singular memory, well read in Greek as well as
Latin, and of a most obliging and agreeable temper, who never haggled about remuneration, but
generally left it to the liberality of his scholars.  He first taught in the house of Julius
Caesar [862], when the latter was yet but a boy, and, afterwards, in his own private house.
He gave instruction in rhetoric also, teaching the rules of eloquence every day, but declaiming
only on festivals.  It is said that some very celebrated men frequented his school,--and, among
others, Marcus Cicero, during the time he held the praetorship [863].  He wrote a number of
works, although he did not live beyond his fiftieth year; but Atteius, the philologist [864],
says, that he left only two volumes, "De Latino Sermone;" and, that the other works ascribed
to him, were composed by his disciples, and were not his, although his name is sometimes to
be found in them.

VIII.  M. POMPILIUS ANDRONICUS, a native of Syria, while he professed to be a grammarian, was
considered an idle follower of the Epicurean sect, and little qualified to be a master (512)
of a school.  Finding, therefore, that, at Rome, not only Antonius Gnipho, but even other teachers
of less note were preferred to him, he retired to Cumae, where he lived at his ease; and, though
he wrote several books, he was so needy, and reduced to such straits, as to be compelled to
sell that excellent little work of his, "The Index to the Annals," for sixteen thousand sesterces.
Orbilius has informed us, that he redeemed this work from the oblivion into which it had fallen,
and took care to have it published with the author's name.

IX.  ORBILIUS PUPILLUS, of Beneventum, being left an orphan, by the death of his parents, who
both fell a sacrifice to the plots of their enemies on the same day, acted, at first, as apparitor
to the magistrates.  He then joined the troops in Macedonia, when he was first decorated with
the plumed helmet [865], and, afterwards, promoted to serve on horseback. Having completed
his military service, he resumed his studies, which he had pursued with no small diligence
from his youth upwards; and, having been a professor for a long period in his own country,
at last, during the consulship of Cicero, made his way to Rome, where he taught with more reputation
than profit.  For in one of his works he says, that "he was then very old, and lived in a garret."
He also published a book with the title of Perialogos; containing complaints of the injurious
treatment to which professors submitted, without seeking redress at the hands of parents. 
His sour temper betrayed itself, not only in his disputes with the sophists opposed to him,
whom he lashed on every occasion, but also towards his scholars, as Horace tells us, who calls
him "a flogger;" [866] and Domitius Marsus [867], who says of him:

    Si quos Orbilius ferula scuticaque cecidit.
    If those Orbilius with rod or ferule thrashed.

(513) And not even men of rank escaped his sarcasms; for, before he became noticed, happening
to be examined as a witness in a crowded court, Varro, the advocate on the other side, put
the question to him, "What he did and by what profession he gained his livelihood?"  He replied,
"That he lived by removing hunchbacks from the sunshine into the shade," alluding to Muraena's
deformity.  He lived till he was near a hundred years old; but he had long lost his memory,
as the verse of Bibaculus informs us:

    Orbilius ubinam est, literarum oblivio?
    Where is Orbilius now, that wreck of learning lost?

His statue is shown in the Capitol at Beneventum.  It stands on the left hand, and is sculptured
in marble [868], representing him in a sitting posture, wearing the pallium, with two writing-cases
in his hand.  He left a son, named also Orbilius, who, like his father, was a professor of grammar.

X.  ATTEIUS, THE PHILOLOGIST, a freedman, was born at Athens.  Of him, Capito Atteius [869],
the well-known jurisconsult, says that he was a rhetorician among the grammarians, and a grammarian
among the rhetoricians.  Asinius Pollio [870], in the book in which he finds fault with the
writings of Sallust for his great affectation of obsolete words, speaks thus: "In this work
his chief assistant was a certain Atteius, a man of rank, a splendid Latin grammarian, the
aider and preceptor of those who studied the practice of declamation; in short, one who claimed
for himself the cognomen of Philologus."  Writing to Lucius Hermas, he says, "that he had made
great proficiency in Greek literature, and some in Latin; that he had been a hearer of Antonius
Gnipho, and his Hermas [871], and afterwards began to teach others.  Moreover, that he had
for pupils many illustrious youths, among whom were the two (514) brothers, Appius and Pulcher
Claudius; and that he even accompanied them to their province."  He appears to have assumed
the name of Philologus, because, like Eratosthenes [872], who first adopted that cognomen,
he was in high repute for his rich and varied stores of learning; which, indeed, is evident
from his commentaries, though but few of them are extant. Another letter, however, to the same
Hermas, shews that they were very numerous: "Remember," it says, "to recommend generally our
Extracts, which we have collected, as you know, of all kinds, into eight hundred books."  He
afterwards formed an intimate acquaintance with Caius Sallustius, and, on his death, with Asinius
Pollio; and when they undertook to write a history, he supplied the one with short annals of
all Roman affairs, from which he could select at pleasure; and the other, with rules on the
art of composition.  I am, therefore, surprised that Asinius Pollio should have supposed that
he was in the habit of collecting old words and figures of speech for Sallust, when he must
have known that his own advice was, that none but well known, and common and appropriate expressions
should be made use of; and that, above all things, the obscurity of the style of Sallust, and
his bold freedom in translations, should be avoided.

XI.  VALERIUS CATO was, as some have informed us, the freedman of one Bursenus, a native of
Gaul.  He himself tells us, in his little work called "Indignatio," that he was born free,
and being left an orphan, was exposed to be easily stripped of his patrimony during the licence
of Sylla's administrations.  He had a great number of distinguished pupils, and was highly
esteemed as a preceptor suited to those who had a poetical turn, as appears from these short lines:

    Cato grammaticus, Latina Siren,
    Qui solus legit ac facit poetas.

    Cato, the Latin Siren, grammar taught and verse,
    To form the poet skilled, and poetry rehearse.

Besides his Treatise on Grammar, he composed some poems, (515) of which, his Lydia and Diana
are most admired.  Ticida mentions his "Lydia."

    Lydia, doctorum maxima cura liber.
    "Lydia," a work to men of learning dear.

Cinna [873] thus notices the "Diana."

    Secula permaneat nostri Diana Catonis.
    Immortal be our Cato's song of Dian.

He lived to extreme old age, but in the lowest state of penury, and almost in actual want;
having retired to a small cottage when he gave up his Tusculan villa to his creditors; as Bibaculus
tells us:

    Si quis forte mei domum Catonis,
    Depictas minio assulas, et illos
    Custodis vidit hortulos Priapi,
    Miratur, quibus ille disciplinis,
    Tantam sit sapientiam assecutus,
    Quam tres cauliculi et selibra farris;
    Racemi duo, tegula sub una,
    Ad summam prope nutriant senectam.

"If, perchance, any one has seen the house of my Cato, with marble slabs of the richest hues,
and his gardens worthy of having Priapus [874] for their guardian, he may well wonder by what
philosophy he has gained so much wisdom, that a daily allowance of three coleworts, half-a-pound
of meal, and two bunches of grapes, under a narrow roof, should serve for his subsistence to
extreme old age."

And he says in another place:

    Catonis modo, Galle, Tusculanum
    Tota creditor urbe venditahat.
    Mirati sumus unicum magistrum,
    Summum grammaticum, optimum poetam,
    Omnes solvere posse quaestiones,
    Unum difficile expedire nomen.
    En cor Zenodoti, en jecur Cratetis!

"We lately saw, my Gallus, Cato's Tusculan villa exposed to public sale by his creditors; and
wondered that such an unrivalled master of (516) the schools, most eminent grammarian, and
accomplished poet, could solve all propositions and yet found one question too difficult for
him to settle,--how to pay his debts.  We find in him the genius of Zenodotus [875], the wisdom
of Crates." [876]

XII.  CORNELIUS EPICADIUS, a freedman of Lucius Cornelius Sylla, the dictator, was his apparitor
in the Augural priesthood, and much beloved by his son Faustus; so that he was proud to call
himself the freedman of both.  He completed the last book of Sylla's Commentaries, which his
patron had left unfinished. [877]

XIII.  LABERIUS HIERA was bought by his master out of a slave-dealer's cage, and obtained his
freedom on account of his devotion to learning. It is reported that his disinterestedness was
such, that he gave gratuitous instruction to the children of those who were proscribed in the
time of Sylla.

XIV.  CURTIUS NICIA was the intimate friend of Cneius Pompeius and Caius Memmius; but having
carried notes from Memmius to Pompey's wife [878], when she was debauched by Memmius, Pompey
was indignant, and forbad him his house.  He was also on familiar terms with Marcus Cicero,
who thus speaks of him in his epistle to Dolabella [879]: "I have more need of receiving letters
from you, than you have of desiring them from me.  For there is nothing going on at Rome in
which I think you would take any interest, except, perhaps, that you may like to know that
I am appointed umpire between our friends Nicias and Vidius.  The one, it appears, alleges
in two short verses that Nicias owes him (517) money; the other, like an Aristarchus, cavils
at them.  I, like an old critic, am to decide whether they are Nicias's or spurious."

Again, in a letter to Atticus [880], he says: "As to what you write about Nicias, nothing could
give me greater pleasure than to have him with me, if I was in a position to enjoy his society;
but my province is to me a place of retirement and solitude.  Sicca easily reconciled himself
to this state of things, and, therefore, I would prefer having him. Besides, you are well aware
of the feebleness, and the nice and luxurious habits, of our friend Nicias.  Why should I be
the means of making him uncomfortable, when he can afford me no pleasure?  At the same time,
I value his goodwill."

XV.  LENAEUS was a freedman of Pompey the Great, and attended him in most of his expeditions.
On the death of his patron and his sons, he supported himself by teaching in a school which
he opened near the temple of Tellus, in the Carium, in the quarter of the city where the house
of the Pompeys stood [881].  Such was his regard for his patron's memory, that when Sallust
described him as having a brazen face, and a shameless mind, he lashed the historian in a most
bitter satire [882], as "a bull's-pizzle, a gormandizer, a braggart, and a tippler, a man whose
life and writings were equally monstrous;" besides charging him with being "a most unskilful
plagiarist, who borrowed the language of Cato and other old writers."  It is related, that,
in his youth, having escaped from slavery by the contrivance of some of his friends, he took
refuge in his own country; and, that after he had applied himself to the liberal arts, he brought
the price of his freedom to his former master, who, however, struck by his talents and learning,
gave him manumission gratuitously.

XVI.  QUINTUS CAECILIUS, an Epirot by descent, but born at Tusculum, was a freedman of Atticus
Satrius, a Roman (518) knight, to whom Cicero addressed his Epistles [883].  He became the
tutor of his patron's daughter [884], who was contracted to Marcus Agrippa, but being suspected
of an illicit intercourse with her, and sent away on that account, he betook himself to Cornelius
Gallus, and lived with him on terms of the greatest intimacy, which, indeed, was imputed to
Gallus as one of his heaviest offences, by Augustus.  Then, after the condemnation and death
of Gallus [885], he opened a school, but had few pupils, and those very young, nor any belonging
to the higher orders, excepting the children of those he could not refuse to admit.  He was
the first, it is said, who held disputations in Latin, and who began to lecture on Virgil and
the other modern poets; which the verse of Domitius Marcus [886] points out.

    Epirota tenellorum nutricula vatum.

                 The Epirot who,
    With tender care, our unfledged poets nursed.

XVII.  VERRIUS FLACCUS [887], a freedman, distinguished himself by a new mode of teaching;
for it was his practice to exercise the wits of his scholars, by encouraging emulation among
them; not only proposing the subjects on which they were to write, but offering rewards for
those who were successful in the contest.  These consisted of some ancient, handsome, or rare
book.  Being, in consequence, selected by Augustus, as preceptor to his grandsons, he transferred
his entire school to the Palatium, but with the understanding that he should admit no fresh
scholars.  The hall in Catiline's house, (519) which had then been added to the palace, was
assigned him for his school, with a yearly allowance of one hundred thousand sesterces.  He
died of old age, in the reign of Tiberius.  There is a statue of him at Praeneste, in the semi-circle
at the lower side of the forum, where he had set up calendars arranged by himself, and inscribed
on slabs of marble.

XVIII.  LUCIUS CRASSITIUS, a native of Tarentum, and in rank a freedman, had the cognomen of
Pasides, which he afterwards changed for Pansa.  His first employment was connected with the
stage, and his business was to assist the writers of farces.  After that, he took to giving
lessons in a gallery attached to a house, until his commentary on "The Smyrna" [888] so brought
him into notice, that the following lines were written on him:

    Uni Crassitio se credere Smyrna probavit.
      Desinite indocti, conjugio hanc petere.
    Soli Crassitio se dixit nubere velle:
      Intima cui soli nota sua exstiterint.

    Crassitius only counts on Smyrna's love,
    Fruitless the wooings of the unlettered prove;
    Crassitius she receives with loving arms,
    For he alone unveiled her hidden charms.

However, after having taught many scholars, some of whom were of high rank, and amongst others,
Julius Antonius, the triumvir's son, so that he might be even compared with Verrius Flaccus;
he suddenly closed his school, and joined the sect of Quintus Septimius, the philosopher.

XIX.  SCRIBONIUS APHRODISIUS, the slave and disciple of Orbilius, who was afterwards redeemed
and presented with his freedom by Scribonia [889], the daughter of Libo who had been the wife
of Augustus, taught in the time of Verrius; whose books on Orthography he also revised, not
without some severe remarks on his pursuits and conduct.

XX.  C. JULIUS HYGINUS, a freedman of Augustus, was a native of Spain, (although some say he
was born at Alexandria,) (520) and that when that city was taken, Caesar brought him, then
a boy, to Rome.  He closely and carefully imitated Cornelius Alexander [890], a Greek grammarian,
who, for his antiquarian knowledge, was called by many Polyhistor, and by some History.  He
had the charge of the Palatine library, but that did not prevent him from having many scholars;
and he was one of the most intimate friends of the poet Ovid, and of Caius Licinius, the historian,
a man of consular rank [891], who has related that Hyginus died very poor, and was supported
by his liberality as long as he lived.  Julius Modestus [892], who was a freedman of Hyginus,
followed the footsteps of his patron in his studies and learning.

XXI.  CAIUS MELISSUS [893], a native of Spoletum, was free-born, but having been exposed by
his parents in consequence of quarrels between them, he received a good education from his
foster-father, by whose care and industry he was brought up, and was made a present of to Mecaenas,
as a grammarian.  Finding himself valued and treated as a friend, he preferred to continue
in his state of servitude, although he was claimed by his mother, choosing rather his present
condition than that which his real origin entitled him to.  In consequence, his freedom was
speedily given him, and he even became a favourite with Augustus.  By his appointment he was
made curator of the library in the portico of Octavia [894];  and, as he himself informs us,
undertook to compose, when he was a sexagenarian, his books of "Witticisms," which are now
called "The Book of Jests."  Of these he accomplished one hundred and fifty, to which he afterwards
added several more.  He (521) also composed a new kind of story about those who wore the toga,
and called it "Trabeat." [895]

XXII.  MARCUS POMPONIUS MARCELLUS, a very severe critic of the Latin tongue, who sometimes
pleaded causes, in a certain address on the plaintiff's behalf, persisted in charging his adversary
with making a solecism, until Cassius Severus appealed to the judges to grant an adjournment
until his client should produce another grammarian, as he was not prepared to enter into a
controversy respecting a solecism, instead of defending his client's rights.  On another occasion,
when he had found fault with some expression in a speech made by Tiberius, Atteius Capito [896]
affirmed, "that if it was not Latin, at least it would be so in time to come;" "Capito is wrong,"
cried Marcellus; "it is certainly in your power, Caesar, to confer the freedom of the city
on whom you please, but you cannot make words for us."  Asinius Gallus [897] tells us that
he was formerly a pugilist, in the following epigram.

    Qui caput ad laevam deicit, glossemata nobis
    Praecipit; os nullum, vel potius pugilis.

    Who ducked his head, to shun another's fist,
    Though he expound old saws,--yet, well I wist,
    With pummelled nose and face, he's but a pugilist.

