THE GREAT WHALING EXPEDITION.

LATEST VERSION.

BY BILLY (H. SM-TH), THE (ST. STEPHEN'S) BO'SEN.

  'Twas in Ninety One, d'ye see,
                Brave boys!
  With SOLLY I did sa-a-a-ail,
          When one Monday night
          We went out--not to fight,
  But we went for to catch a Whale.
                Brave boys!
  We went for to catch a Whale!

  There was dirty weather about,
                  Brave boys!
  Trade-winds was blowin' a ga-a-a-le,
          When the Skipper sings out,
          As we chopped about,
  "My eyes! there goes such a Whale!
               Brave boys!
  Dear eyes I there goes such a Whale!"

  It were the whoppingest Whale,
                Brave boys!
  As ever whisked a ta-a-a-il;
          In the trough o' the sea
          It was Labouring free.
  And a lashin' the waves like a flail,
                 Brave boys!
  A lashin' the waves like a flail.

  We had heard o' that Whale afore,
                Brave boys!
  Says SOLLY, "I'll go ba-a-a-ail,
          The Rads would roar
          If that monster they sor-r!
  But we want to catch that Whale,
                     Brave boys!
  We want to catch that Whale!

  "Young GRANDOLPH[1] has kep' a look-out
              Brave boys!
  Wich it weren't of no awa-a-a-il.
          Brum JOEY[1], no doubt,
          Is a-cruisin' about,
  But they mustn't catch that Whale,
                     Brave boys!
  No, they mustn't catch that Whale."

  There was only me and SOLLY,
                 Brave boys!
  In that boat, with never a sa-a-a-il;
           And, it may seem folly,
           But we both was jolly,
  For we meant for to catch that Whale,
               Brave boys!
  We meant for to catch that Whale!

  No harpoon, or such tackle we took.
                 Brave boys!
  For we knowed they was no ava-a-a-il.
          No, we went for to look
          For that Whale--with a hook.
  That's how we went for that Whale,
               Brave boys!
  That's how we went for that Whale!

  We knowed that a sprat was the bait,
               Brave boys!
  What was never knowed for to fa-a-a-il.
         So the sprat I throwed,
         Whilst SOLLY, he rowed,
  That's how we angled for that Whale,
                Brave boys!
  That's how we angled for that Whale!

  He lashed, and he dashed, and he splashed,
                 Brave boys!
  And he spouted on a werry big sca-a-a-le.
            But the skipper, he still held on,
            And that sprat what I have telled on,
  I dangled,--for to catch that Whale,
                  Brave boys!
  I dangled,--for to catch that Whale!

  "Strike! turn yer winch, pull in yer line!
                Brave boys!
  (Sings out SOLLY) and yer prize you'll na-a-a-il!"
          Then a rummy thing did 'appen
          Wich amazed me and the Cap'en;
  I struck,--but so did that Whale,
                    Brave boys!
  I struck--but so did that Whale!

  We found he was the better at a Strike,
               Brave boys!
  Fhwisk! He hit us such a wallop with his ta-a-a-il.
         With my hook, sprat, tackle too
         He just vanished from our view.
  So--we haven't yet caught that Whale,
                 Brave boys!
  No,--we haven't yet caught that Whale!

[Footnote 1: Supposed to be rival whaling captains.]

       *       *       *       *       *

SHIPPING INTELLIGENCE.--The name of the "unknown steamer laden with gums and ivory," reported
as having passed down the Congo last week, has been discovered to be The Dentist.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATEST IN TELEGRAMS.

(SEE DAILY PAPERS PASSIM.)

[ALL FROM THE RAZZLE-DAZZLE AGENCY.]

HUKIEWAUKIE, February 28.

An extraordinary incident has just stirred the heart of this populous Western centre to its
depths. Some fifteen years ago Colonel ZACHARY B. DIBBS, one of the most prominent citizens
of Hukiewaukie (then a mere collection of log-huts), disappeared without leaving any address
to which his letters and papers were to be forwarded. Mrs. DIBBS, who was then about to give
birth to the seventh scion of the house of DIBBS, was inconsolable, and ordered the fish-ponds
in the vicinity to be subjected to a rigorous scrutiny. All her conjugal efforts proved fruitless,
the missing Colonel was nowhere to be found, and, after a decent interval spent in the wearing
of widow's weeds, Mrs. DIBBS was led to the local registrar's office by Sheriff's Deputy ORLANDO
T. STRUGGLES. Time went on, and five flourishing STRUGGLESES were added by the former Mrs.
DIBBS to the population of the town. On Thursday last, however, Colonel DIBBS was discovered
by his eldest son, Mr. JERNIAH N. DIBBS, the well-known notary public, sitting in his familiar
seat in the Fifth Street Saloon, drinking rum-shrub out of a tumbler. An explanation followed.
Sheriff's Deputy STRUGGLES, in the handsomest manner, offered to resign all claim to the possession
of the Colonel's spouse. The Colonel, however, would not hear of this. Finally it was decided
to spin a five-dollar green-back for the lady. An inopportune gust of wind, however, carried
off the fateful money, and the momentous question is still undecided. The Colonel has announced
his intention of continuing a bachelor, even if he has to fight the matter up to the Supreme
Court, and a large majority of the inhabitants of the town are willing to support him, with
a view to making this a test case.

MUNCHAUSENVILLE, March 2.

Yesterday, as one of the chief tiger-purveyors of this city was engaged in exercising his troupe
of fiery, untamed tigers, in the main street, two of the ferocious animals escaped from the
string which has usually been found sufficient for their confinement. A general stampede of
the inhabitants immediately followed, the majority finding refuge in the bar of the recently
constructed Hotel Columbia, Mayor MADDERLEY and his amiable consort were, however, not so fortunate.
The Mayor, being shortsighted, mistook the two denizens of the jungle for a couple of performing
poodles, to whose training he had devoted much of his leisure, and who, as it happened, were
at that precise moment expected on their return from the post-office, with the Mayor's mail
in their mouths--a trick which had often amused the Mayor's friends. Mr. MADDERLEY advanced
to stroke his supposed pets, and was much surprised to find himself torn in pieces before he
had time to send for the city mace. Mrs. MADDERLEY, a stout, plethoric lady, would have been
the next victim, had she not, with extraordinary presence of mind, declared herself dead the
moment the animals approached her. This deceit (which, however, has been the subject of grave
censure in many pulpits,) saved her life. Maddened by the taste of blood, the tigers next attacked
Mr. LARIAT's grocery store. Here, however, they met their match in an army of Gorgonzola cheeses,
which broke from their shelves, attacked the intruders with wonderful fury, and in ten minutes
had so far subdued them that their owner was able to recapture them, and lead them home. The
obsequies of Mr. MADDERLEY's shoes and his umbrella--all that was left of the unhappy Mayor--have
just taken place amidst universal demonstrations of sympathy. The funeral cortège took an hour
to pass a given point. Widow MADDERLEY proposes to sue the owner of her late husband's assassins.

LYNCHVILLE, March 3.

Two brothers, named respectively JOHN and THOMAS, quarrelled here yesterday about the ownership
of a clasp-knife. They drew their revolvers at the same instant, and fired at a distance of
two paces. Strangely enough the two deadly bullets met in the air, and, their force being exactly
equal, they stopped dead and dropped to the ground, whence they were afterwards picked up and
presented to the trustees of the Lynchville Museum of Fine Art. Nothing daunted, the fraternal
contestants set to work with their bowie-knives, and were only separated after JOHN had inflicted
on THOMAS ten mortal wounds and received from him one less. It is generally admitted that nothing
could have been fairer than the conduct of the police, who formed a cordon round the duellists,
and thus prevented the fussy interference which has so often brought similar affairs to a premature
termination. The two coffins are to be of polished walnut-wood, and will be provided by the
Friendly Society to which the two deceased belonged, as a last mark of affection and regard.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"LA RIXE."

(IRISH DONNYBROOK VERSION.)

AIR--"PACKINGTON'S POUND."

Oirish Gentleman loquitur:--

  Spilt mugs, chairs fallen, and scattered tables,--
    That's Oirish shindy, me bhoys, all over!
  "Union of Hearts" and such plisant fables,
    Won't greatly hamper the free-foight lover.
      What do you mean,
      Ye paltry spalpeen?
    True Oirish hearts from Old England to wean?
  Faix, not a bit of it! We'll jist have none of it!
  They're foighting frindly, and jist for the fun of it!

  There's bould PARNELL, he looks fierce and fell,
    Wid his savage face, and his snickersnee steely.
  Faix, wouldn't he loike that same to stroike
    All into the gizzard of Misther HEALY?
      He looks so sullen
      At the pair a pullin'
    At his sinewy arm, and his onset mullin'!
  That thraitor, TIM, he'd be having his will on,
  But for tearful O'BRIEN, and dismal DILLON.

  As for tarin' TIM, he'd be hot at him,
    Wid his ready sword from its scabbard flashin'!
  But that meddlin' JUSTIN will be a thrustin'
    Himself betune 'em, the duel dashin'!
      Och, I assure ye,
      Nor judge nor jury
    Could abate their ardour, or assuage their fury.
  Faix, Mount Vaysuvius, wid its flame and smother,
  Must take a back sate--whin they get at each other!

  Och! a rale ruction hath a swate seduction,
    For us Oirish, BULL, though it mayn't be your way.
  PARNELL's a rum fish, and he seems to "scumfish"
    That Grand Ould Gintleman paping in at the doorway.
      Ye may call it "Rixe,"
      Though I can't quite fix
    Its mayning; a plague on all polyglot thricks!
  Sthand asoide, O'BRIEN, DILLON, MCCARTHY!
  Let 'em foight it out--shure that's Oirish and hearthy! Even
the fog keeps out; nothing more important under consideration than
Army Vote, including expenditure of £5,632,700. "And precious little
too," says Colonel LAURIE, doing sentry march in the Lobby. "Wages
going up everywhere! labour of all classes but one paid on higher
scale than it used to be; but TOMMY ATKINS and his Colonel getting
just the same now as they did twenty years ago, when living was much
cheaper. There ought to be a rise all round, and so there would be,
if the Army, following example of other organised bodies of day
labourers, were to strike; think I'll mention it at Mess; should begin
at the top. Why shouldn't the Colonels and Generals assemble in their
hundreds, march to Hyde Park, where H.R.H. would address them from
a stoutly-made tub? Moral effect would be enormous; shall certainly
mention it at Mess. Perhaps, could get some practical hints from JOHN
BURNS."

