Knowing that slaveholders have the privilege of taking their slaves to any part of the country
they think proper, it occurred to me that, as my wife was nearly white, I might get her to
disguise herself as an invalid gentleman, and assume to be my master, while I could attend
as his slave, and that in this manner we might effect our escape.  After I thought of the plan,
I suggested it to my wife, but at first she shrank from the idea.  She thought it was almost
impossible for her to assume that disguise, and travel a distance of 1,000 miles across the
slave States.  However, on the other hand, she also thought of her condition. She saw that
the laws under which we lived did not recognize her to be a woman, but a mere chattel, to be
bought and sold, or otherwise dealt with as her owner might see fit.  Therefore the more she
contemplated her helpless condition, the more anxious she was to escape from it.  So she said,
"I think it is almost too much for us to undertake; however, I feel that God is on our side,
and with his assistance, notwithstanding all the difficulties, we shall be able to succeed.
Therefore, if you will purchase the disguise, I will try to carry out the plan."

But after I concluded to purchase the disguise, I was afraid to go to any one to ask him to
sell me the articles.  It is unlawful in Georgia for a white man to trade with slaves without
the master's consent. But, notwithstanding this, many persons will sell a slave any article
that he can get the money to buy.  Not that they sympathize with the slave, but merely because
his testimony is not admitted in court against a free white person.

Therefore, with little difficulty I went to different parts of the town, at odd times, and
purchased things piece by piece, (except the trowsers which she found necessary to make,) and
took them home to the house where my wife resided.  She being a ladies' maid, and a favourite
slave in the family, was allowed a little room to herself; and amongst other pieces of furniture
which I had made in my overtime, was a chest of drawers; so when I took the articles home,
she locked them up carefully in these drawers.  No one about the premises knew that she had
anything of the kind.  So when we fancied we had everything ready the time was fixed for the
flight.  But we knew it would not do to start off without first getting our master's consent
to be away for a few days.  Had we left without this, they would soon have had us back into
slavery, and probably we should never have got another fair opportunity of even attempting
to escape.

Some of the best slaveholders will sometimes give their favourite slaves a few days' holiday
at Christmas time; so, after no little amount of perseverance on my wife's part, she obtained
a pass from her mistress, allowing her to be away for a few days.  The cabinet-maker with whom
I worked gave me a similar paper, but said that he needed my services very much, and wished
me to return as soon as the time granted was up.  I thanked him kindly; but somehow I have
not been able to make it convenient to return yet; and, as the free air of good old England
agrees so well with my wife and our dear little ones, as well as with myself, it is not at
all likely we shall return at present to the "peculiar institution" of chains and stripes.

On reaching my wife's cottage she handed me her pass, and I showed mine, but at that time neither
of us were able to read them.  It is not only unlawful for slaves to be taught to read, but
in some of the States there are heavy penalties attached, such as fines and imprisonment, which
will be vigorously enforced upon any one who is humane enough to violate the so-called law.

The following case will serve to show how persons are treated in the most enlightened slaveholding
community.

  "INDICTMENT.

  COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA,   } In the Circuit
  NORFOLK COUNTY, ss.         } Court.

"VICTOR VAGABOND, Prosecuting Attorney."

"On this indictment Mrs. Douglass was arraigned as a necessary matter of form, tried, found
guilty of course; and Judge Scalaway, before whom she was tried, having consulted with Dr.
Adams, ordered the sheriff to place Mrs. Douglass in the prisoner's box, when he addressed
her as follows: 'Margaret Douglass, stand up.  You are guilty of one of the vilest crimes that
ever disgraced society; and the jury have found you so.  You have taught a slave girl to read
in the Bible.  No enlightened society can exist where such offences go unpunished.  The Court,
in your case, do not feel for you one solitary ray of sympathy, and they will inflict on you
the utmost penalty of the law.  In any other civilized country you would have paid the forfeit
of your crime with your life, and the Court have only to regret that such is not the law in
this country.  The sentence for your offence is, that you be imprisoned one month in the county
jail, and that you pay the costs of this prosecution.  Sheriff, remove the prisoner to jail.'
On the publication of these proceedings, the Doctors of Divinity preached each a sermon on
the necessity of obeying the laws; the New York Observer noticed with much pious gladness a
revival of religion on Dr. Smith's plantation in Georgia, among his slaves; while the Journal
of Commerce commended this political preaching of the Doctors of Divinity because it favoured
slavery.  Let us do nothing to offend our Southern brethren."

However, at first, we were highly delighted at the idea of having gained permission to be absent
for a few days; but when the thought flashed across my wife's mind, that it was customary for
travellers to register their names in the visitors' book at hotels, as well as in the clearance
or Custom-house book at Charleston, South Carolina--it made our spirits droop within us.

So, while sitting in our little room upon the verge of despair, all at once my wife raised
her head, and with a smile upon her face, which was a moment before bathed in tears, said,
"I think I have it!"  I asked what it was.  She said, "I think I can make a poultice and bind
up my right hand in a sling, and with propriety ask the officers to register my name for me."
I thought that would do.

It then occurred to her that the smoothness of her face might betray her; so she decided to
make another poultice, and put it in a white handkerchief to be worn under the chin, up the
cheeks, and to tie over the head.  This nearly hid the expression of the countenance, as well
as the beardless chin.

The poultice is left off in the engraving, because the likeness could not have been taken well
with it on.

My wife, knowing that she would be thrown a good deal into the company of gentlemen, fancied
that she could get on better if she had something to go over the eyes; so I went to a shop
and bought a pair of green spectacles.  This was in the evening.

We sat up all night discussing the plan, and making preparations.  Just before the time arrived,
in the morning, for us to leave, I cut off my wife's hair square at the back of the head, and
got her to dress in the disguise and stand out on the floor.  I found that she made a most
respectable looking gentleman.

My wife had no ambition whatever to assume this disguise, and would not have done so had it
been possible to have obtained our liberty by more simple means; but we knew it was not customary
in the South for ladies to travel with male servants; and therefore, notwithstanding my wife's
fair complexion, it would have been a very difficult task for her to have come off as a free
white lady, with me as her slave; in fact, her not being able to write would have made this
quite impossible.  We knew that no public conveyance would take us, or any other slave, as
a passenger, without our master's consent.  This consent could never be obtained to pass into
a free State.  My wife's being muffled in the poultices, &c., furnished a plausible excuse
for avoiding general conversation, of which most Yankee travellers are passionately fond.

There are a large number of free negroes residing in the southern States; but in Georgia (and
I believe in all the slave States,) every coloured person's complexion is prima facie evidence
of his being a slave; and the lowest villain in the country, should he be a white man, has
the legal power to arrest, and question, in the most inquisitorial and insulting manner, any
coloured person, male or female, that he may find at large, particularly at night and on Sundays,
without a written pass, signed by the master or some one in authority; or stamped free papers,
certifying that the person is the rightful owner of himself.

If the coloured person refuses to answer questions put to him, he may be beaten, and his defending
himself against this attack makes him an outlaw, and if he be killed on the spot, the murderer
will be exempted from all blame; but after the coloured person has answered the questions put
to him, in a most humble and pointed manner, he may then be taken to prison; and should it
turn out, after further examination, that he was caught where he had no permission or legal
right to be, and that he has not given what they term a satisfactory account of himself, the
master will have to pay a fine.  On his refusing to do this, the poor slave may be legally
and severely flogged by public officers. Should the prisoner prove to be a free man, he is
most likely to be both whipped and fined.

The great majority of slaveholders hate this class of persons with a hatred that can only be
equalled by the condemned spirits of the infernal regions.  They have no mercy upon, nor sympathy
for, any negro whom they cannot enslave.  They say that God made the black man to be a slave
for the white, and act as though they really believed that all free persons of colour are in
open rebellion to a direct command from heaven, and that they (the whites) are God's chosen
agents to pour out upon them unlimited vengeance.  For instance, a Bill has been introduced
in the Tennessee Legislature to prevent free negroes from travelling on the railroads in that
State.  It has passed the first reading.  The bill provides that the President who shall permit
a free negro to travel on any road within the jurisdiction of the State under his supervision
shall pay a fine of 500 dollars; any conductor permitting a violation of the Act shall pay
250 dollars; provided such free negro is not under the control of a free white citizen of Tennessee,
who will vouch for the character of said free negro in a penal bond of one thousand dollars.
The State of Arkansas has passed a law to banish all free negroes from its bounds, and it came
into effect on the 1st day of January, 1860.  Every free negro found there after that date
will be liable to be sold into slavery, the crime of freedom being unpardonable.  The Missouri
Senate has before it a bill providing that all free negroes above the age of eighteen years
who shall be found in the State after September, 1860, shall be sold into slavery; and that
all such negroes as shall enter the State after September, 1861, and remain there twenty-four
hours, shall also be sold into slavery for ever.  Mississippi, Kentucky, and Georgia, and in
fact, I believe, all the slave States, are legislating in the same manner. Thus the slaveholders
make it almost impossible for free persons of colour to get out of the slave States, in order
that they may sell them into slavery if they don't go.  If no white persons travelled upon
railroads except those who could get some one to vouch for their character in a penal bond
of one thousand dollars, the railroad companies would soon go to the "wall."  Such mean legislation
is too low for comment; therefore I leave the villainous acts to speak for themselves.

But the Dred Scott decision is the crowning act of infamous Yankee legislation.  The Supreme
Court, the highest tribunal of the Republic, composed of nine Judge Jeffries's, chosen both
from the free and slave States, has decided that no coloured person, or persons of African
extraction, can ever become a citizen of the United States, or have any rights which white
men are bound to respect.  That is to say, in the opinion of this Court, robbery, rape, and
murder are not crimes when committed by a white upon a coloured person.

Judges who will sneak from their high and honourable position down into the lowest depths of
human depravity, and scrape up a decision like this, are wholly unworthy the confidence of
any people.  I believe such men would, if they had the power, and were it to their temporal
interest, sell their country's independence, and barter away every man's birthright for a mess
of pottage.  Had we not been sustained by a kind, and I sometimes think special, providence,
we could never have overcome the mountainous difficulties which I am now about to describe.

After this we rose and stood for a few moments in breathless silence,--we were afraid that
some one might have been about the cottage listening and watching our movements.  So I took
my wife by the hand, stepped softly to the door, raised the latch, drew it open, and peeped
out.  Though there were trees all around the house, yet the foliage scarcely moved; in fact,
everything appeared to be as still as death.  I then whispered to my wife, "Come, my dear,
let us make a desperate leap for liberty!"  But poor thing, she shrank back, in a state of
trepidation.  I turned and asked what was the matter; she made no reply, but burst into violent
sobs, and threw her head upon my breast.  This appeared to touch my very heart, it caused me
to enter into her feelings more fully than ever.  We both saw the many mountainous difficulties
that rose one after the other before our view, and knew far too well what our sad fate would
have been, were we caught and forced back into our slavish den.

However, the sobbing was soon over, and after a few moments of silent prayer she recovered
her self-possession, and said, "Come, William, it is getting late, so now let us venture upon
our perilous journey."

We then opened the door, and stepped as softly out as "moonlight upon the water."  I locked
the door with my own key, which I now have before me, and tiptoed across the yard into the
street.  I say tiptoed, because we were like persons near a tottering avalanche, afraid to
move, or even breathe freely, for fear the sleeping tyrants should be aroused, and come down
upon us with double vengeance, for daring to attempt to escape in the manner which we contemplated.

We shook hands, said farewell, and started in different directions for the railway station.
I took the nearest possible way to the train, for fear I should be recognized by some one,
and got into the negro car in which I knew I should have to ride; but my MASTER (as I will
now call my wife) took a longer way round, and only arrived there with the bulk of the passengers.
He obtained a ticket for himself and one for his slave to Savannah, the first port, which was
about two hundred miles off.  My master then had the luggage stowed away, and stepped into
one of the best carriages.

But just before the train moved off I peeped through the window, and, to my great astonishment,
I saw the cabinet-maker with whom I had worked so long, on the platform.  He stepped up to
the ticket-seller, and asked some question, and then commenced looking rapidly through the
passengers, and into the carriages.  Fully believing that we were caught, I shrank into a corner,
turned my face from the door, and expected in a moment to be dragged out.  The cabinet-maker
looked into my master's carriage, but did not know him in his new attire, and, as God would
have it, before he reached mine the bell rang, and the train moved off.

I have heard since that the cabinet-maker had a presentiment that we were about to "make tracks
for parts unknown;" but, not seeing me, his suspicions vanished, until he received the startling
intelligence that we had arrived freely in a free State.

As soon as the train had left the platform, my master looked round in the carriage, and was
terror-stricken to find a Mr. Cray--an old friend of my wife's master, who dined with the family
the day before, and knew my wife from childhood--sitting on the same seat.

The doors of the American railway carriages are at the ends.  The passengers walk up the aisle,
and take seats on either side; and as my master was engaged in looking out of the window, he
did not see who came in.

My master's first impression, after seeing Mr. Cray, was, that he was there for the purpose
of securing him.  However, my master thought it was not wise to give any information respecting
himself, and for fear that Mr. Cray might draw him into conversation and recognise his voice,
my master resolved to feign deafness as the only means of self-defence.

After a little while, Mr. Cray said to my master, "It is a very fine morning, sir."  The latter
took no notice, but kept looking out of the window.  Mr. Cray soon repeated this remark, in
a little louder tone, but my master remained as before.  This indifference attracted the attention
of the passengers near, one of whom laughed out.  This, I suppose, annoyed the old gentleman;
so he said, "I will make him hear;" and in a loud tone of voice repeated, "It is a very fine
morning, sir."

My master turned his head, and with a polite bow said, "Yes," and commenced looking out of
the window again.

One of the gentlemen remarked that it was a very great deprivation to be deaf.  "Yes," replied
Mr. Cray, "and I shall not trouble that fellow any more."  This enabled my master to breathe
a little easier, and to feel that Mr. Cray was not his pursuer after all.

The gentlemen then turned the conversation upon the three great topics of discussion in first-class
circles in Georgia, namely, Niggers, Cotton, and the Abolitionists.

My master had often heard of abolitionists, but in such a connection as to cause him to think
that they were a fearful kind of wild animal. But he was highly delighted to learn, from the
gentlemen's conversation, that the abolitionists were persons who were opposed to oppression;
and therefore, in his opinion, not the lowest, but the very highest, of God's creatures.

Without the slightest objection on my master's part, the gentlemen left the carriage at Gordon,
for Milledgeville (the capital of the State).

We arrived at Savannah early in the evening, and got into an omnibus, which stopped at the
hotel for the passengers to take tea.  I stepped into the house and brought my master something
on a tray to the omnibus, which took us in due time to the steamer, which was bound for Charleston,
South Carolina.

Soon after going on board, my master turned in; and as the captain and some of the passengers
seemed to think this strange, and also questioned me respecting him, my master thought I had
better get out the flannels and opodeldoc which we had prepared for the rheumatism, warm them
quickly by the stove in the gentleman's saloon, and bring them to his berth.  We did this as
an excuse for my master's retiring to bed so early.

While at the stove one of the passengers said to me, "Buck, what have you got there?"  "Opodeldoc,
sir," I replied.  "I should think it's opo-DEVIL," said a lanky swell, who was leaning back
in a chair with his heels upon the back of another, and chewing tobacco as if for a wager;
"it stinks enough to kill or cure twenty men.  Away with it, or I reckon I will throw it overboard!"

It was by this time warm enough, so I took it to my master's berth, remained there a little
while, and then went on deck and asked the steward where I was to sleep.  He said there was
no place provided for coloured passengers, whether slave or free.  So I paced the deck till
a late hour, then mounted some cotton bags, in a warm place near the funnel, sat there till
morning, and then went and assisted my master to get ready for breakfast.

He was seated at the right hand of the captain, who, together with all the passengers, inquired
very kindly after his health.  As my master had one hand in a sling, it was my duty to carve
his food.  But when I went out the captain said, "You have a very attentive boy, sir; but you
had better watch him like a hawk when you get on to the North.  He seems all very well here,
but he may act quite differently there.  I know several gentlemen who have lost their valuable
niggers among them d----d cut-throat abolitionists."

Before my master could speak, a rough slave-dealer, who was sitting opposite, with both elbows
on the table, and with a large piece of broiled fowl in his fingers, shook his head with emphasis,
and in a deep Yankee tone, forced through his crowded mouth the words, "Sound doctrine, captain,
very sound."  He then dropped the chicken into the plate, leant back, placed his thumbs in
the armholes of his fancy waistcoat, and continued, "I would not take a nigger to the North
under no consideration.  I have had a deal to do with niggers in my time, but I never saw one
who ever had his heel upon free soil that was worth a d----n."  "Now stranger," addressing
my master, "if you have made up your mind to sell that ere nigger, I am your man; just mention
your price, and if it isn't out of the way, I will pay for him on this board with hard silver
dollars."  This hard-featured, bristly-bearded, wire-headed, red-eyed monster, staring at my
master as the serpent did at Eve, said, "What do you say, stranger?"  He replied, "I don't
wish to sell, sir; I cannot get on well without him."

"You will have to get on without him if you take him to the North," continued this man; "for
I can tell ye, stranger, as a friend, I am an older cove than you, I have seen lots of this
ere world, and I reckon I have had more dealings with niggers than any man living or dead.
I was once employed by General Wade Hampton, for ten years, in doing nothing but breaking 'em
in; and everybody knows that the General would not have a man that didn't understand his business.
So I tell ye, stranger, again, you had better sell, and let me take him down to Orleans.  He
will do you no good if you take him across Mason's and Dixon's line; he is a keen nigger, and
I can see from the cut of his eye that he is certain to run away."  My master said, "I think
not, sir; I have great confidence in his fidelity."  "FiDEVIL," indignantly said the dealer,
as his fist came down upon the edge of the saucer and upset a cup of hot coffee in a gentleman's
lap.  (As the scalded man jumped up the trader quietly said, "Don't disturb yourself, neighbour;
accidents will happen in the best of families.")  "It always makes me mad to hear a man talking
about fidelity in niggers.  There isn't a d----d one on 'em who wouldn't cut sticks, if he
had half a chance."

By this time we were near Charleston; my master thanked the captain for his advice, and they
all withdrew and went on deck, where the trader fancied he became quite eloquent.  He drew
a crowd around him, and with emphasis said, "Cap'en, if I was the President of this mighty
United States of America, the greatest and freest country under the whole universe, I would
never let no man, I don't care who he is, take a nigger into the North and bring him back here,
filled to the brim, as he is sure to be, with d----d abolition vices, to taint all quiet niggers
with the hellish spirit of running away.  These air, cap'en, my flat-footed, every day, right
up and down sentiments, and as this is a free country, cap'en, I don't care who hears 'em;
for I am a Southern man, every inch on me to the backbone."  "Good!" said an insignificant-looking
individual of the slave-dealer stamp.  "Three cheers for John C. Calhoun and the whole fair
sunny South!" added the trader.  So off went their hats, and out burst a terrific roar of irregular
but continued cheering.  My master took no more notice of the dealer.  He merely said to the
captain that the air on deck was too keen for him, and he would therefore return to the cabin.

While the trader was in the zenith of his eloquence, he might as well have said, as one of
his kit did, at a great Filibustering meeting, that "When the great American Eagle gets one
of his mighty claws upon Canada and the other into South America, and his glorious and starry
wings of liberty extending from the Atlantic to the Pacific, oh! then, where will England be,
ye gentlemen?  I tell ye, she will only serve as a pocket-handkerchief for Jonathan to wipe
his nose with."

On my master entering the cabin he found at the breakfast-table a young southern military officer,
with whom he had travelled some distance the previous day.

After passing the usual compliments the conversation turned upon the old subject,--niggers.

The officer, who was also travelling with a man-servant, said to my master, "You will excuse
me, Sir, for saying I think you are very likely to spoil your boy by saying 'thank you' to
him.  I assure you, sir, nothing spoils a slave so soon as saying, 'thank you' and 'if you
please' to him.  The only way to make a nigger toe the mark, and to keep him in his place,
is to storm at him like thunder, and keep him trembling like a leaf.  Don't you see, when I
speak to my Ned, he darts like lightning; and if he didn't I'd skin him."

Just then the poor dejected slave came in, and the officer swore at him fearfully, merely to
teach my master what he called the proper way to treat me.

After he had gone out to get his master's luggage ready, the officer said, "That is the way
to speak to them.  If every nigger was drilled in this manner, they would be as humble as dogs,
and never dare to run away."

The gentleman urged my master not to go to the North for the restoration of his health, but
to visit the Warm Springs in Arkansas.

My master said, he thought the air of Philadelphia would suit his complaint best; and, not
only so, he thought he could get better advice there.

The boat had now reached the wharf.  The officer wished my master a safe and pleasant journey,
and left the saloon.

There were a large number of persons on the quay waiting the arrival of the steamer: but we
were afraid to venture out for fear that some one might recognize me; or that they had heard
that we were gone, and had telegraphed to have us stopped.  However, after remaining in the
cabin till all the other passengers were gone, we had our luggage placed on a fly, and I took
my master by the arm, and with a little difficulty he hobbled on shore, got in and drove off
to the best hotel, which John C. Calhoun, and all the other great southern fire-eating statesmen,
made their head-quarters while in Charleston.

On arriving at the house the landlord ran out and opened the door: but judging, from the poultices
and green glasses, that my master was an invalid, he took him very tenderly by one arm and
ordered his man to take the other.

My master then eased himself out, and with their assistance found no trouble in getting up
the steps into the hotel.  The proprietor made me stand on one side, while he paid my master
the attention and homage he thought a gentleman of his high position merited.

My master asked for a bed-room.  The servant was ordered to show a good one, into which we
helped him.  The servant returned.  My master then handed me the bandages, I took them downstairs
in great haste, and told the landlord my master wanted two hot poultices as quickly as possible.
He rang the bell, the servant came in, to whom he said, "Run to the kitchen and tell the cook
to make two hot poultices right off, for there is a gentleman upstairs very badly off indeed!"

In a few minutes the smoking poultices were brought in.  I placed them in white handkerchiefs,
and hurried upstairs, went into my master's apartment, shut the door, and laid them on the
mantel-piece.  As he was alone for a little while, he thought he could rest a great deal better
with the poultices off.  However, it was necessary to have them to complete the remainder of
the journey.  I then ordered dinner, and took my master's boots out to polish them.  While
doing so I entered into conversation with one of the slaves.  I may state here, that on the
sea-coast of South Carolina and Georgia the slaves speak worse English than in any other part
of the country.  This is owing to the frequent importation, or smuggling in, of Africans, who
mingle with the natives. Consequently the language cannot properly be called English or African,
but a corruption of the two.

The shrewd son of African parents to whom I referred said to me, "Say, brudder, way you come
from, and which side you goin day wid dat ar little don up buckra" (white man)?

I replied, "To Philadelphia."

"What!" he exclaimed, with astonishment, "to Philumadelphy?"

"Yes," I said.

"By squash!  I wish I was going wid you!  I hears um say dat dare's no slaves way over in dem
parts; is um so?"

I quietly said, "I have heard the same thing."

"Well," continued he, as he threw down the boot and brush, and, placing his hands in his pockets,
strutted across the floor with an air of independence--"Gorra Mighty, dem is de parts for Pompey;
and I hope when you get dare you will stay, and nebber follow dat buckra back to dis hot quarter
no more, let him be eber so good."

I thanked him; and just as I took the boots up and started off, he caught my hand between his
two, and gave it a hearty shake, and, with tears streaming down his cheeks, said:--

"God bless you, broder, and may de Lord be wid you.  When you gets de freedom, and sitin under
your own wine and fig-tree, don't forget to pray for poor Pompey."

I was afraid to say much to him, but I shall never forget his earnest request, nor fail to
do what little I can to release the millions of unhappy bondmen, of whom he was one.

At the proper time my master had the poultices placed on, came down, and seated himself at
a table in a very brilliant dining-room, to have his dinner.  I had to have something at the
same time, in order to be ready for the boat; so they gave me my dinner in an old broken plate,
with a rusty knife and fork, and said, "Here, boy, you go in the kitchen."  I took it and went
out, but did not stay more than a few minutes, because I was in a great hurry to get back to
see how the invalid was getting on.  On arriving I found two or three servants waiting on him;
but as he did not feel able to make a very hearty dinner, he soon finished, paid the bill,
and gave the servants each a trifle, which caused one of them to say to me, "Your massa is
a big bug"--meaning a gentleman of distinction--"he is the greatest gentleman dat has been
dis way for dis six months."  I said, "Yes, he is some pumpkins," meaning the same as "big bug."

When we left Macon, it was our intention to take a steamer at Charleston through to Philadelphia;
but on arriving there we found that the vessels did not run during the winter, and I have no
doubt it was well for us they did not; for on the very last voyage the steamer made that we
intended to go by, a fugitive was discovered secreted on board, and sent back to slavery. 
However, as we had also heard of the Overland Mail Route, we were all right.  So I ordered
a fly to the door, had the luggage placed on; we got in, and drove down to the Custom-house
Office, which was near the wharf where we had to obtain tickets, to take a steamer for Wilmington,
North Carolina.  When we reached the building, I helped my master into the office, which was
crowded with passengers.  He asked for a ticket for himself and one for his slave to Philadelphia.
This caused the principal officer--a very mean-looking, cheese-coloured fellow, who was sitting
there--to look up at us very suspiciously, and in a fierce tone of voice he said to me, "Boy,
do you belong to that gentleman?" I quickly replied, "Yes, sir" (which was quite correct).
The tickets were handed out, and as my master was paying for them the chief man said to him,
"I wish you to register your name here, sir, and also the name of your nigger, and pay a dollar
duty on him."

My master paid the dollar, and pointing to the hand that was in the poultice, requested the
officer to register his name for him.  This seemed to offend the "high-bred" South Carolinian.
He jumped up, shaking his head; and, cramming his hands almost through the bottom of his trousers
pockets, with a slave-bullying air, said, "I shan't do it."

This attracted the attention of all the passengers.  Just then the young military officer with
whom my master travelled and conversed on the steamer from Savannah stepped in, somewhat the
worse for brandy; he shook hands with my master, and pretended to know all about him.  He said,
"I know his kin (friends) like a book;" and as the officer was known in Charleston, and was
going to stop there with friends, the recognition was very much in my master's favor.

The captain of the steamer, a good-looking, jovial fellow, seeing that the gentleman appeared
to know my master, and perhaps not wishing to lose us as passengers, said in an off-hand sailor-like
manner, "I will register the gentleman's name, and take the responsibility upon myself."  He
asked my master's name.  He said, "William Johnson."  The names were put down, I think, "Mr.
Johnson and slave."  The captain said, "It's all right now, Mr. Johnson."  He thanked him kindly,
and the young officer begged my master to go with him, and have something to drink and a cigar;
but as he had not acquired these accomplishments, he excused himself, and we went on board
and came off to Wilmington, North Carolina.  When the gentleman finds out his mistake, he will,
I have no doubt, be careful in future not to pretend to have an intimate acquaintance with
an entire stranger.  During the voyage the captain said, "It was rather sharp shooting this
morning, Mr. Johnson.  It was not out of any disrespect to you, sir; but they make it a rule
to be very strict at Charleston.  I have known families to be detained there with their slaves
till reliable information could be received respecting them.  If they were not very careful,
any d----d abolitionist might take off a lot of valuable niggers."

My master said, "I suppose so," and thanked him again for helping him over the difficulty.

We reached Wilmington the next morning, and took the train for Richmond, Virginia.  I have
stated that the American railway carriages (or cars, as they are called), are constructed differently
to those in England.  At one end of some of them, in the South, there is a little apartment
with a couch on both sides for the convenience of families and invalids; and as they thought
my master was very poorly, he was allowed to enter one of these apartments at Petersburg, Virginia,
where an old gentleman and two handsome young ladies, his daughters, also got in, and took
seats in the same carriage.  But before the train started, the gentleman stepped into my car,
and questioned me respecting my master.  He wished to know what was the matter with him, where
he was from, and where he was going.  I told him where he came from, and said that he was suffering
from a complication of complaints, and was going to Philadelphia, where he thought he could
get more suitable advice than in Georgia.

The gentleman said my master could obtain the very best advice in Philadelphia.  Which turned
out to be quite correct, though he did not receive it from physicians, but from kind abolitionists
who understood his case much better.  The gentleman also said, "I reckon your master's father
hasn't any more such faithful and smart boys as you."  "O, yes, sir, he has," I replied, "lots
on 'em."  Which was literally true. This seemed all he wished to know.  He thanked me, gave
me a ten-cent piece, and requested me to be attentive to my good master.  I promised that I
would do so, and have ever since endeavoured to keep my pledge. During the gentleman's absence,
the ladies and my master had a little cosy chat.  But on his return, he said, "You seem to
be very much afflicted, sir."  "Yes, sir," replied the gentleman in the poultices. "What seems
to be the matter with you, sir; may I be allowed to ask?" "Inflammatory rheumatism, sir." 
"Oh! that is very bad, sir," said the kind gentleman: "I can sympathise with you; for I know
from bitter experience what the rheumatism is." If he did, he knew a good deal more than Mr.
Johnson.

The gentleman thought my master would feel better if he would lie down and rest himself; and
as he was anxious to avoid conversation, he at once acted upon this suggestion.  The ladies
politely rose, took their extra shawls, and made a nice pillow for the invalid's head.  My
master wore a fashionable cloth cloak, which they took and covered him comfortably on the couch.
After he had been lying a little while the ladies, I suppose, thought he was asleep; so one
of them gave a long sigh, and said, in a quiet fascinating tone, "Papa, he seems to be a very
nice young gentleman."  But before papa could speak, the other lady quickly said, "Oh! dear
me, I never felt so much for a gentleman in my life!"  To use an American expression, "they
fell in love with the wrong chap."

After my master had been lying a little while he got up, the gentleman assisted him in getting
on his cloak, the ladies took their shawls, and soon they were all seated.  They then insisted
upon Mr. Johnson taking some of their refreshments, which of course he did, out of courtesy
to the ladies.  All went on enjoying themselves until they reached Richmond, where the ladies
and their father left the train.  But, before doing so, the good old Virginian gentleman, who
appeared to be much pleased with my master, presented him with a recipe, which he said was
a perfect cure for the inflammatory rheumatism.  But the invalid not being able to read it,
and fearing he should hold it upside down in pretending to do so, thanked the donor kindly,
and placed it in his waistcoat pocket.  My master's new friend also gave him his card, and
requested him the next time he travelled that way to do him the kindness to call; adding, "I
shall be pleased to see you, and so will my daughters." Mr. Johnson expressed his gratitude
for the proffered hospitality, and said he should feel glad to call on his return.  I have
not the slightest doubt that he will fulfil the promise whenever that return takes place. 
After changing trains we went on a little beyond Fredericksburg, and took a steamer to Washington.

