It was so firmly closed, that I despaired; and after looking to assure myself that the attempt
had not been observed, I was going to move away, when I espied the edge of a key projecting
from under the door. Still all was quiet. A stealthy glance round, and I had out the key. To
draw back now was to write myself craven all my life; and with a shaking hand I thrust the
wards into the lock, turned them, and in another moment stood on the other side of the door
in a neat garden, speckled with sunshine and shade, and where all lay silent.

I remained a full minute, flattened against the door, staring fearfully at the high-fronted
mansion that beyond the garden looked down on me with twelve great eyes. But all remained quiet,
and observing that the windows were shuttered, I took courage to move, and slid under a tree
and breathed again.

Still I looked and listened, fearfully, for the silence seemed to watch me; and the greenness
and orderliness of the place frightened me. But nothing happened, and everything I saw went
to prove that the house was empty. I grew bolder then, and sneaking from bush to bush, reached
the door and with a backward glance between courage and desperation tried it.

It was locked, but I hardly noticed that; for, as my hand left the latch, from some remote
part of the house came the long-drawn whine of a dog!

I stood, listening and turning hot and cold in the sunshine; and dared not touch the latch
again lest others should hear the noise. Instead, I stole out of the doorway, and crept round
the house and round the house again, hunting for a back entrance. I found none; but at last,
goaded by the reflection that fortune would never again be so nearly within my grasp, I marked
a window on the first floor, and at the side of the house; by which it seemed to me that I
might enter. A mulberry-tree stood by it, and it lacked bars; and other trees veiled the spot.
To be brief, in two minutes I had my knee on the sill, and, sweating with terror--for I knew
that if I were taken I should hang for a thief--I forced in the casement, and dropped on the floor.

There I waited a while, listening. I was in a bare room, the door of which stood ajar. Somewhere
in the bowels of the house the dog whined again--and again; otherwise all was still--deadly
still. But I had risked too much to stand now; and in the end, emboldened by the silence, I
crept out and stole along a passage, seeking the way to the lower floor.

The passage was dark, and every board on which I stepped shrieked the alarm. But I felt my
way to the landing at the head of the stairs, and I was about to descend, when some impulse,
I know not what--perhaps a shrinking from the dark parts below, to which I was about to trust
myself--moved me to open one of the shutters and peer out.

I did so, cautiously, and but a little--a few inches. I found myself looking, not into the
garden through which I had passed, but into the one over the way, beyond the alley, and there
on a scene so strange and yet so apropos to my thoughts, that I paused, gaping.

On a plat of grass four men were standing, two and two; between them, with nose upraised and
scenting this way and that, moved a beautiful curly-haired spaniel, in colour black and tan.
The eyes of all four men were riveted to the dog; which, as I looked, walked sedately first
to the one pair, and then, as if dissatisfied, to the other pair; and then again stood midway
and sniffed the air. The men were speaking, but I could not catch even their voices, and I
was reduced to drawing what inferences I could from their appearance.

