"If I do--when I do--I will," she replied. "But, John Sherwood, you mustn't interfere--never
in the world! Promise!" She stood there, almost menacing in her insistence, evidently resolved
to nip this particularly masculine resolution in the bud.

"Egad, Patsy," cried Sherwood, "you are certainly a raving beauty!"

He covered the ground between them in two strides, and crushed her in his arms. She threw her
head back for his kiss.

A knock sounded, and almost immediately a very black, very bullet-headed young negro thrust
his head in at the door.

"Sam," said Sherwood deliberately, "some day I'm going to kill you!"

"Yes, sah! yes, sah!" agreed Sam heartily.

"Well, what the devil do you want?"

"Th' Panama done been, signalled; yes, sah!" said the negro, but without following his head
through the door.

"Well, what the devil do you suppose I care, you black limb?" roared Sherwood, "and what do
you mean coming in here before you're told?"

"Yes, sah! yes, sah, dat's right," ducked Sam, "Shell I awdah the team, sah?"

"I suppose we might as well go see her docked. Would you like it?" he asked his wife.

"I'd love it."

"Then get the team. And some day I'm going to kill you."

III

Mrs. Sherwood prepared herself first of all by powdering her nose. This simple operation, could
it have been seen by the "respectable" members of the community, would in itself have branded
her as "fast," In those days cosmetics of any sort were by most considered inventions of the
devil. It took extraordinary firmness of character even to protect one's self against sunburn
by anything more artificial than the shadow of a hat or a parasol. Then she assumed a fascinating
little round hat that fitted well down over her small head. This, innocent of pins, was held
on by an elastic at the back. A ribbon, hanging down directly in front, could be utilized to
steady it in a breeze.

"All ready," she announced, picking up a tiny parasol, about big enough for a modern doll.
"You may carry my mantle."

Near the foot of the veranda steps waited Sam at the heads of a pair of beautiful, slim, satiny
horses. Their bay coats had been groomed until they rippled and sparkled with every movement
of the muscles beneath. Wide red- lined nostrils softly expanded and contracted with a restrained
eagerness; and soft eyes rolled in the direction of the Sherwoods--keen, lithe, nervous, high-strung
creatures, gently stamping little hoofs, impatiently tossing dainty heads, but nevertheless
making no movement that would stir the vehicle that stood "cramped" at the steps. Their harness
carried no blinders; their tails, undocked, swept the ground; but their heads were pulled into
the air by the old stupid overhead check reins until their noses pointed almost straight ahead.
It gave them rather a haughty air.

Sherwood stepped in first, took the reins in one hand, and offered his other hand to his wife.
Sam instantly left the horses' heads to hold a wicker contrivance against the arc of the wheels.
This was to protect skirts from dusty tires. Mrs. Sherwood settled as gracefully to her place
as a butterfly on its flower. Sam snatched away the wicker guards. Sherwood spoke to the horses.
With a purring little snort they moved smoothly away. The gossamerlike wheels threw the light
from their swift spokes. Sam, half choked by the swirl of dust, gazed after them. Sherwood,
leaning slightly forward against the first eagerness of the animals, showed a strong, competent,
arresting figure, with his beaver hat, his keen grim face, his snow-white linen, and the blue
of his brass-buttoned-coat. The beautiful horses were stepping as one, a delight to the eye,
making nothing whatever of the frail vehicle at their heels. But Sam's eye lingered longest
on the small stately figure of his mistress.