Use three small lettuce heads, clean, drain, chop and put into a saucepan with a tablespoonful
of butter, cover and let steam for a few minutes, then add two quarts of good soup stock or
one quart each of stock and milk, add a half-cup of rice and boil until the rice is soft. Strain
through a sieve, or not, as one fancies, season with salt, pepper, return to the fire, add
a pint of cream, let it come just to the boiling point and serve.

MANGOES.

Mangoes are made from cucumbers, melons, peppers, tomatoes and peaches. The following recipe
applies to all but the peaches. Select green or half grown melons and large green cucumbers,
tomatoes, or peppers. Remove a narrow piece the length of the fruit, and attach it at one end
by a needle and white thread, after the seeds of the mango have been carefully taken out. Throw
the mangoes into a brine of salt and cold water strong enough to bear up an egg, and let them
remain in it three days and nights, then throw them into fresh cold water for twenty-four hours.
If grape leaves are at hand, alternate grape leaves and mangoes in a porcelain kettle (never
a copper one) until all are in, with grape leaves at the bottom and top. Add a piece of alum
the size of a walnut, cover with cider vinegar and boil fifteen minutes. Remove the grape leaves
and stuff the mangoes. Prepare a cabbage, six tomatoes, a few small cucumbers and white onions,
by chopping the cabbage and tomatoes and putting all separately into brine for twenty-four
hours and draining thoroughly. After draining chop the cucumbers and onions. Drain the mangoes,
put into each a teaspoonful of sugar, and two whole cloves. Add to the vegetable filling, one-fourth
ounce each of ground ginger, black pepper, mace, allspice, nasturtium seed, ground cinnamon,
black and white mustard, one-fourth cup of horseradish and one-fourth cup sweet oil. Bruise
all the spices and mix with the oil, then mix all the ingredients thoroughly and stuff the
mangoes, fit the piece taken out and sew in with white thread or tie it in with a string around
the mango. Put them into a stone jar and pour over them hot cider vinegar sweetened with a
pound or more of sugar to the gallon to suit the taste. If they are not keeping properly pour
over again fresh hot vinegar.

MARTYNIAS.

Gather the pods when young and tender enough to thrust a needle through them easily, later
they become hard and useless for pickles. Leave half an inch of stem on each, and lay them
in salt water a couple of days, then cook in weak vinegar until tender, but not so long as
to break them. Drain well from this, place them in jars and prepare vinegar for them in the
proportion of an ounce each of cloves, allspice and black pepper to a gallon of vinegar; scald
all these together with half a teaspoonful of prepared mustard. Pour hot over the martynias,
cover closely and keep in a cool place. They will soon be ready for use.

MRS. HOOD.

MELON, MUSK.

It is said a muskmelon can be chosen by its odor. If it has none, it is not good, if sweet
and musky it is quite sure to be ripe. Another indication of ripeness is when the smooth skin
between the rough sections is yellowish green. To serve, cut the melons crosswise and fill
with chopped ice an hour before using. Try pouring a little strained honey into the melon when
eating.

CANTALOUPE FRAPPE.

Select two large cantaloupes that are ripe and of fine flavor; cut into halves and scrape the
pulp from same after removing the seeds (not using any of the rind); put the pulp through a
potato ricer, which will keep out all the stringy parts; add to the pulp a pinch of salt, four
tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar and a gill of cherry juice (sweetened with a spoonful of sugar),
or use some other nice tart juice. Soak a tablespoonful of gelatine in a quarter-cupful of
water; then set cup in pan of boiling water until it is dissolved; add this to the prepared
cantaloupe and when cold turn into a freezer and freeze slowly. Serve in sherbet glasses.

MRS. SADETTE HARRINGTON.

COOKED MUSKMELON.

Miss Corson, in one of her lectures, gives the following directions for making a very nice
dessert from muskmelons:--Make a rich syrup from a pound of white sugar to half a pint of water.
Pare and slice the melon and boil it gently in the syrup five to ten minutes flavoring with
vanilla or lemon. Then take it up in the dish in which it is to be served, cool the syrup and
pour it on the melon. To be eaten cold.

MELON MANGOES. (See Mangoes.)

MUSKMELON PICKLE.

Use ripe muskmelons, pare, remove seeds, and cut in pieces and put into a stone jar. Cover
with scalded vinegar and let them stand until the next day, when the vinegar must be reheated
and poured over them again; repeat this until the fourth day, then weigh the melons and to
every five pounds of the fruit allow three pounds of sugar and one quart of vinegar with spices
to suit. Let all simmer together until the fruit is tender. The second day pour off this syrup,
and boil down until it shall only just cover the melons. The result justifies the pains taken.

MELON, WATER.

The following is said to be an infallible sign of a ripe watermelon, it takes close inspection
to find sometimes, but the sign is there if the condition for it exists. When the flesh of
the melon changes color and its seeds begin to turn black a small scale or blister appears
on the rind. They increase in number and size as the melon ripens, until a ripe one shows them
thickly strewn over the surface. A small crop of blisters indicates unripe fruit. A melon must
be served ice cold. Cut it through the middle, scoop out the flesh with a tablespoon in a circle
as much as possible that the pieces may be conical or egg shaped. Cover the platter with grape
leaves and pile the fruit upon them, allowing the tendrils of the grapes to wander in and out
among the melon cones.

WATERMELON ICE.

Cut a watermelon in halves, scoop out the entire center, taking out the seeds; chop in tray;
add a cup of sugar. Pack the freezer, turn a few minutes. It will be like soft snow and delicious.

WATERMELON PICKLES.

Eat the flesh and save the rind. Cut the rind into finger lengths and about an inch in width,
pare and cut out all the red flesh, throw into a strong salt brine and let stand over night.
In the morning drain, boil in water until the pickles are clear, drain again and put into a
stone jar. To one gallon of fruit, allow one quart of sugar and one pint of vinegar. Do up
cinnamon and cloves in little bags, in ratio of two of cinnamon to one of cloves and boil them
in the syrup. Pour the boiling syrup over the pickles, tie up close and in a few days they
are ready for use.

MINT SAUCE.

Four dessert spoons of chopped mint, two of sugar, one quarter pint of vinegar. Stir all together;
make two or three hours before needed.

MINT VINEGAR.

Fill a bottle loosely with fresh, clean mint, pour over good vinegar, cork tightly and let
stand two or three weeks. Then pour off and keep well corked. Use this vinegar as a condiment,
or put a small quantity into drawn butter sauce for mutton.

MUSHROOMS.

The highest authorities say an edible mushroom can easily be distinguished from a poisonous
one by certain characteristics;--a true mushroom grows only in pastures, never in wet, boggy
places, never in woods, never about stumps of trees, they are of small size, dry, and if the
flesh is broken it remains white or nearly so and has a pleasant odor. Most poisonous varieties
change to yellow or dark brown and have a disagreeable odor, though there is a white variety
which grows in woods or on the borders of woods, that is very poisonous. The cap of a true
mushroom has a frill, the gills are free from the stem, they never grow down against it, but
usually there is a small channel all around the top of the stem, the spores are brown-black,
or deep purple black and the stem is solid or slightly pithy. It is said if salt is sprinkled
on the gills and they become yellow the mushroom is poisonous, if black, they are wholesome.
Sweet oil is its antidote.

BAKED MUSHROOMS.

Hold the mushrooms by the stems, dip them in boiling hot water a moment to help loosen the
skin, cut off their stems. Boil the parings and stems and strain. Pour this water over the
mushrooms chopped fine, add parsley and stew about forty minutes. Then add six eggs well beaten.
Pour this mixture into buttered cups and bake quickly. Serve with cream sauce.

MUSHROOM CATSUP.

Boil one peck of mushrooms fifteen minutes in half a pint of water, strain, or not, through
a sieve to get all the pulp; add a pint of vinegar to the juice, two tablespoonfuls of salt,
one half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one of cinnamon and
one of cloves. Let the mixture boil twenty minutes; bottle and seal tightly.

FRIED MUSHROOMS.

Pare the mushrooms, cut off their stems, lay them on their heads in a frying pan in which a
tablespoonful of butter has been melted, put a bit of butter into each cap, let them cook in
their own liquor and the butter until thoroughly done. Season with salt and butter and serve hot.

MUSHROOMS WITH MACARONI.

Boil half a pound of macaroni. Put a pint of water, one small onion, a sprig of parsley, the
juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter as much pepper into a saucepan.
When boiling add a quart of mushrooms and cook five minutes. Beat three eggs, stir in and take
from the fire. Drain the macaroni, put a layer in the bottom of a baking dish, then a layer
of the mushroom mixture, and thus alternately until the dish is full. Have mushrooms on top,
and set in a hot oven for five minutes.

MRS. ELIZA PARKER.

MARROW WITH MUSHROOMS.

Procure a shinbone and have the butcher split it; remove the marrow and cut it into inch-thick
slices; then boil it one and one-half minutes in a quart of salted water, using a teaspoonful
of salt. Into a frying-pan put a tablespoonful of butter; when hot add five tablespoonfuls
of chopped mushrooms and toss for five minutes, sprinkling them with three shakes of salt and
a speck of cayenne. Drain the marrow; squeeze over it ten drops of lemon juice; then mix with
it the mushrooms; spread on slices of hot, crisp toast and serve immediately.

CHICAGO RECORD.

MUSHROOM OMELET.

Cook a dozen small, even sized mushrooms in a saucepan with half an ounce of butter and half
a saltspoonful of salt sprinkled over them. Make ready a plain omelet, as it cooks at the edges
place the mushrooms over one half of it, fold over the other half, slip from the pan on to
a hot dish and serve immediately.

MUSHROOMS ON TOAST.

Prepare enough mushrooms to measure one half-pint when chopped, and enough of raw ham to fill
a tablespoon heaping full. Mix these and add a teaspoonful of parsley, a trifle of chopped
onion if liked, a teaspoonful of lemon juice, pepper and salt. Fry in two tablespoonfuls of
butter, add a half-cupful of milk or cream, boil up again, and add an egg thoroughly beaten.
Serve on small squares of toast. This with the addition of bread crumbs before the milk is
added and with the use of some of the relishing herbs makes an excellent stuffing.

MUSHROOM SOUP.

Get your butcher to crack for you a shank of beef. Put over it four quarts of water. Let it
boil hard for a few moments until all the scum has risen and has been removed. Set it back
on the stove now to simmer five hours. At the end of the fourth hour add one carrot, one turnip,
one small onion, one bunch of parsley, two stalks of celery, twelve cloves and two bay leaves.
Let all these boil together one hour, then strain and set away until the next day, when all
the grease must be skimmed off. To every quart of the stock add a quart of milk thickened with
two tablespoonfuls of flour and two tablespoonfuls of butter, one saltspoonful of salt and
a dust of pepper, add to this a half-pint of canned mushrooms or small mushrooms stewed thoroughly
in the liquor obtained from boiling and straining the stems and parings.

MUSTARD.

In early spring the young leaves are used as a garnish, or, finely cut, as a seasoning to salads.
The Cabbage Leaved Mustard makes an excellent green, and is treated like spinach.

AROMATIC MUSTARD.

Upon one tablespoonful of grated horseradish, an ounce of bruised ginger root, and five long
red peppers pour half a pint of boiling vinegar. Allow to stand, closely covered, for two days;
then take five teaspoonfuls of ground mustard, one teaspoonful of curry powder, and a dessertspoonful
of salt, and mix well together. Strain the vinegar upon this, adding a dash of cayenne if wanted
very pungent. Mix very smoothly and keep in a corked bottle or jar.

NASTURTIUM.

The flowers are used to garnish salads, the young leaves and flowers make a lovely salad (See
Flower Salad). The young buds and leaves when tender are made into pickles and are used like
capers in sauces, salads and pickles.

NASTURTIUM PICKLES.

Gather the seeds as soon as the blossoms fall, throw them into cold salt water for two days,
at the end of that time cover them with cold vinegar, and when all the seed is gathered and
so prepared, turn over them fresh boiling hot vinegar plain or spiced with cloves, cinnamon,
mace, pepper, broken nutmeg, bay leaves and horseradish. Cork tightly.

BOILED OKRA OR GUMBO.

The long seed pod is the edible part of this plant, it can be canned or dried for winter use.
If dried let it soak an hour or so before using. To cook, cut the pods in rings, boil them
in salted water until tender which will be in about twenty minutes. Add butter, salt, pepper
and cream. Thin muslin bags are sometimes made to hold the whole pods without breaking. After
boiling tender, pour them out, season with butter, salt and pepper and bake for five minutes.

FRIED OKRA.

Cut it lengthwise, salt and pepper it, roll it in flour and fry in butter, lard or drippings.

OKRA FRITTERS.

Boil the okra, cut in slices, make a batter as for batter cakes, dip the okra in and fry in
plenty of hot lard.

MRS. E. C. DUBB.

OKRA GUMBO SOUP.

Use two quarts of tomatoes to one quart of okra cut in rings; put them over the fire with about
three quarts of water and let the mixture come to a boil; take one chicken; cut it up and fry
brown with plenty of gravy; put it in with the okra and tomatoes; add several small onions
chopped fine, a little corn and lima beans, if they are at hand, and salt and pepper. Let all
simmer gently for several hours. To be served with a tablespoonful of rice and a green garden
pepper cut fine to each soup plate.

ONIONS.

Peel and slice onions under water to keep the volatile oil from the eyes. A cup of vinegar
boiling on the stove modifies the disagreeable odor of onions cooking. Boil a frying pan in
water with wood ashes, potash, or soda in it to remove the odor and taste of onions. To rub
silver with lemon removes the onion taste from it. Leaves of parsley eaten like cress with
vinegar hide the odor of onions in the breath. Onions to be eaten raw or cooked will lose their
rank flavor if they are pulled and thrown into salt water an hour before use. Two waters in
boiling accomplish the same purpose.

ONION FLAVORING.

To prepare onion flavoring for a vegetable soup, peel a large onion, stick several cloves into
it and bake until it is brown. This gives a peculiar and excellent flavor.

FRIED APPLES AND ONIONS.

Take one part onion to two parts apple. Slice the apples without paring, and slice the onions
very thin. Fry together in butter, keeping the frying pan covered, to hold the steam which
prevents burning. A very slight sprinkling of sugar seems to give an added flavor. Add just
as it is to be taken up or else it will burn.

ONION OMELET.

Put a lump of butter or dripping in a frying pan, then put in sliced onions, salt and pepper,
cook slowly until done, but not brown. Beat the eggs, allowing two for each person, pour in
the frying pan, add a little salt and stir until set. Serve hot.

ONION PICKLES.

Choose small uniform onions; make a brine that will hold up an egg, and pour over the onions
boiling hot. Let them lie in this twenty-four hours, then drain and wipe dry and put into bottles.
Pour over them cold cider vinegar, seasoned with sliced horseradish, whole pepper and mace.
Put in bottles and seal.

BAKED ONIONS.

Boil in milk and water until just done, then drain and put them in a buttered frying pan. Put
a bit of butter, salt, and pepper on each one, and add a little of the water in which the onions
have boiled. Brown them quickly and serve at once.

CREAM ONIONS.

Boil onions in two waters and drain; pour over them a little boiling milk and set over the
fire, add butter, cream, salt and pepper and serve hot.

ESCALLOPED ONIONS.

Boil onions in salted water with a little milk until they are tender. Put a layer of onions
in a baking dish, scatter bread crumbs over them, dot with butter, season with pepper and salt
and a dash of powdered sage, repeat this until the dish is full, pour over a half-cup of cream
or milk. Cover the top with bread crumbs dotted with butter. Bake a light brown and serve.

STUFFED ONIONS.

Boil onions one hour in slightly salted water, and remove the centers. Make a stuffing of minced
liver or chicken in these proportions; to one pound of meat one third of a cupful of gravy
milk or cream, one half-cupful of fine bread crumbs, one egg, pepper and salt and some of the
onion taken from the centers, mix well and fill the onion shells, dust over a few bread crumbs,
dot with butter and bake until brown. Put the remaining onion into a stew pan, with a tablespoonful
of butter, a half-tablespoonful of flour, and after it boils up once, add a half-cup of milk,
a teaspoonful of parsley, salt and pepper, boil up again, pour over onions and serve. This
is a good second course after soup served with apple sauce.

PARSLEY.

Parsley is the prime favorite of the garnishes. Its pretty curled leaves are used to decorate
fish flesh and fowl and many a vegetable. Either natural, minced or fried, it is an appetizing
addition to many sauces, soups, dressings and salads.

FRIED PARSLEY.

Wash the parsley very clean, chop fine and fry in butter in the proportion of one tablespoonful
of butter to one pint of minced parsley. When soft, sprinkle with bread crumbs, moisten with
a little water, and cook ten or fifteen minutes longer. Garnish it with sliced boiled egg.
To be eaten with pigeon.

PARSLEY VINEGAR.

Fill a preserving bottle with parsley leaves, freshly gathered and washed, and cover with vinegar.
Screw down the top and set aside for two or three weeks. Then strain off the vinegar, add salt
and cayenne pepper to taste, bottle and cork. Use on cold meats, cabbage, etc.

PARSLEY SAUCE. (See Sauces.)

BOILED PARSNIPS.

Wash, scrape and cut them into slices about an inch thick, put them in a saucepan with salted
water and cook until tender, drain, cover with good rich milk, season with butter, pepper and
salt to taste, bring to a boil and serve.

BROILED PARSNIPS.

After parsnips are boiled, slice and broil brown. Make a gravy as for beefsteak.

BROWNED PARSNIPS.

Put two or three thin slices of salt pork in the bottom of a kettle and let them brown, scrape
and slice the parsnips and pare about the same amount of potatoes, leaving them whole if they
are small. Place in alternate layers in the kettle, and add sufficient water to cook them,
leaving them to brown slightly. They must be closely watched as they burn very easily. Requires
about one and a half hours to cook and brown nicely. Remove the vegetables and thicken the
gravy with a little flour; add pepper and salt, and a small lump of butter. Serve pork and
vegetables on a large, deep platter and pour over the gravy.

FRIED PARSNIPS.

Scrape and wash parsnips, cut off the small end and cut the thick part into half-inch-thick
slices. Put them in boiling water with a tablespoonful each of salt and sugar. Boil an hour
or until nearly done and drain; beat two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of flour and half a pint
of milk together, season with salt and pepper. Dip the slices of parsnip into the batter, then
in bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard or drippings until a golden brown. Pile them in a heap
on a napkin and serve very hot.

PARSNIP FRITTERS.

Scrape and halve the parsnips, boil tender in salted water, mash smooth, picking out the woody
bits; then add a beaten egg to every four parsnips, a tablespoonful of flour, pepper and salt
to taste, and enough milk to make into a thin batter; drop by the tablespoonful into hot lard,
and fry brown. Drain into a hot colander and dish.

MASHED PARSNIPS.

Boil parsnips tender in salted water, drain and mash them through a colander. Put the pulp
into a saucepan with two or three tablespoonfuls of cream and a small lump of butter rubbed
in flour, stir them over the fire until the butter is melted and serve.

MOCK OYSTERS.

Use three grated parsnips, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, one teacupful of sweet cream,
butter half the size of an egg, three tablespoonfuls of flour. Fry as pancakes.

PARSNIP PUFFS. Do not let it stand long. Drop by the tablespoonful into hot, melted fat in
a frying pan, and cook until a delicate brown.

CHICAGO RECORD.

AMBUSHED PEAS.

Cut the tops off of biscuits or buns twenty-four hours old. Scoop out the inside and put both
shells and tops into the oven to crust. Pour into them peas after they have been boiled and
mixed with a cream sauce to which an egg has been added, also minced parsley or mint if liked.
Cover carefully with the tops and serve hot.

BOILED PEAS.

Do not shell peas until ready to cook. Salt, and slightly sweeten if needed boiling water,
drop the peas so slowly into the water it will not stop boiling. Boil the peas until tender
without covering and they will keep their color. They will generally cook in about twenty minutes,
take them up with a little of the liquor in which they were boiled, butter and pepper them,
and they are much better to add a little sweet cream, but will do without. If they are cooked
immediately upon gathering, they will need no sugar; if allowed to remain twelve hours or more,
a tablespoonful of sugar will be found an addition. A sprig of mint or a little parsley may
be added. Pea-pods are sometimes boiled in a small quantity of water, then are skimmed out
and the peas are boiled in this liquor.

PEAS AND BUTTERED EGGS.

Stew a pint of young peas with a tablespoonful of butter, a little salt, pepper and chopped
parsley, until they are tender; beat up two eggs and pour over them the boiling peas. Serve
at once on toast before the eggs harden.

CANAPES OF PEAS.

These form a dainty entree. To prepare the canapes take some slices of stale bread about two
inches thick and cut into neat rounds with a large biscuit cutter. With a smaller cutter mark
a circle in the center of each round and scoop out the crumbs from it to the depth of one inch.
This must be carefully done, so there will be a firm bottom and sides. Lay these around in
a shallow dish and pour over them a half-pint of milk in which one egg has been thoroughly
beaten. This proportion of egg and milk is sufficient for six canapes. Let them lie in this
for a few minutes; then take up very carefully and slip into very hot lard. When of a pale
golden brown remove with a skimmer and drain on blotting paper. Boil a pint of freshly cleaned
peas in unsalted water until tender; drain well. Put into a saucepan with two spoons of butter,
dredge in a dessertspoonful of flour and add a saltspoon of salt and a quarter of a pint of
milk. Let it come to a boil; then fill the canapes with this, give a dusting of pepper on the
top of each, arrange on a platter and garnish with parsley and slices of lemon.

CHICAGO RECORD.

PEAS AND LETTUCE.

Use a pint of peas and two young lettuces cut small. Put in as little water as possible to
use and not burn, let them boil until tender, then add a square of sugar, the yolks of two
eggs well beaten and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir together a short time but do not boil.

PEAS AU PARMESAN.

Grate one and one-half ounces of cheese, add to it two tablespoonfuls of cream, a gill of milk,
a tablespoonful of butter, saltspoonful of salt and four shakes of pepper. Place in an enameled
pan and stir over the fire until the butter and cheese are dissolved. Then put in a pint and
a half of fresh young peas, previously boiled until tender, drained and seasoned with a half-teaspoonful
of salt. Stir the mixture a few moments. Serve as hot as possible.

CHICAGO RECORD.

GREEN-PEA SALAD.

Shred some lettuce and add to it the peas--they should be boiled with a little mint, and be
quite cold. Add the salad dressing just before serving.

PEA AND NUT SALAD.

Use one cupful of chopped pecan nuts to three cupfuls of French peas. Serve on lettuce with
mayonnaise.

PEA SOUP.

Use chicken, mutton, or beef broth, or water for a liquor in which to boil two cups of green
peas, add to them one minced onion, one carrot cut fine, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley,
a stalk of celery cut fine, a bay leaf and two cloves. When the peas are tender, rub all through
a sieve. Return the soup to the pot and add two tablespoonfuls of butter, a teaspoonful of
salt, two well beaten yolks and half a cupful of cream. Let come to a boil and serve with croutons.
Croutons are little squares of bread hard baked in the oven, or fried in oil or butter.

DEVILED PEPPERS.

Use green bell peppers, cut off the stem end and remove the inside. Chop cooked cold ham, and
with it as many eggs as one wishes, or chop tongue, veal or chicken, and use the following
salad dressing:--To a pint of meat use the yolk of a hard boiled egg, rubbed smooth in a scant
tablespoonful of melted butter, a half teaspoonful of made mustard, half a teaspoonful of sugar,
add enough vinegar to make it thin and stir in the meat. Fill the pepper shells with this mixture
rounding it up high. It is an excellent lunch dish.

PEPPER MANGOES. (See Mangoes.)

PICKLED PEPPERS.

Remove the seeds from large green peppers, slice them and lay them in a jar alternating each
layer of peppers with a layer of cabbage, then cover them with salt and let stand over night.
In the morning drain off the water. For the pickle use enough vinegar to cover the peppers,
an ounce each of black and white mustard seed, juniper berries, whole cloves and allspice,
one half-ounce of celery seed and one large onion chopped fine or one head of garlic if that
flavor is liked. Let this come to a boil and pour over the peppers. Pack tightly in a jar,
cover with horseradish leaves, and close up tightly.

PEPPER SALAD.

Shave as fine as possible one head of cabbage, use an ounce of mustard seed, or an ounce of
celery seed as one prefers either flavor; cut one or two yellow peppers into thin shavings
if mustard seed is used, or four if celery seed is used. Pour cold cider vinegar over all,
add a little salt and sugar and let stand a day or two to really pickle the cabbage and peppers.
Pack in jars or cans and it will keep all winter. Serve with oysters and cold meats.

STUFFED PEPPERS.

