"The Italians commonly call a taste for the fine arts, or skill in them, by the name of Virtue.
They term the productions of artists objects of virtue; and a person who has a taste for such
things is denominated a virtuoso, that is, a virtuous man." Such is the language of the Edinburgh
Review, in commencing an article on a recently-published translation of Lanzi's History of
Painting in Italy, in six octavo volumes--and what a delightful relief is this from the party
declamations which usually occupy so large a portion of that "critical journal." But this is
not singular, for it is now no uncommon thing to see a large letter column of a newspaper,
and a similar proportion of a printed sheet published at twopence, alike occupied by "the Fine
Arts."

Patronage, royal and noble, has already achieved much for painting, and even the reported project
for a National Gallery does much to foster the art. It keeps the study afloat and uppermost
in the public mind; and the immense increase of exhibitions, not only in London, but in provincial
towns, serves to prove that patronage now consists in something more substantial than tutelar
notice, and unpaid promises. Artists need no longer journey to the metropolis to find sale
for their works, for their genius is nourished on its native soil by the liberality and good
taste which abound in the neighbourhood of every important town in the empire. It may be as
well to keep up the hue and cry about the folly of portrait-painting, if it be only to keep
down the vanity of wealth; but the munificent rewards which painters receive for this branch
of their art will enable them to devote a greater portion of their leisure to higher studies.
Their taste will not thus be impugned; for Cooke, the actor, is known to have entertained the
meanest opinion of his own performance of Richard the Third, as an historical portrait, notwithstanding
it was the corner-stone of his fame. We do not invite the comparison; but Mr. Hayden began
with history--his want of patronage is well known; he then tried portraits--but his want of
success was reserved for the style of his Mock Election pictures, and, in all probability,
they will turn out the philosopher's stone for his future life.

But it is to the splendid union of Painting, Engraving, and Literature that much of these beneficial
effects may be traced. In every branch of the fine arts and literature, what a powerful influence
will this triple advancement produce. Only compare the topographical works of Mr. Britton with
those of his predecessors--his highly-finished line engravings, excellent antiquarian pieces
on wood, and erudite descriptions, with the wretched prints and the quaintnesses of old topographers--or
even with the lumber of some of our county histories. With this improvement, and that of map-work,
painting has comparatively but little to do; and yet how evident is the progress of the literature
of these works.[2]

It would be easy to adduce hundreds of instances of the recent union of painting and engraving.
About five years ago, a plan was started for illustrating the Bible from pictures of the old
masters. Upwards of two hundred of them were transferred to wood-blocks; but the scheme did
not repay the ingenious originator--partly from their small size, uncertainty of effect to
be produced on wood, and partly from the very cheap rate at which the engravings were sold--the
whole series being purchaseable for three or four shillings.[3] But a similar design is now
in progress on metal, being the idea of La Musée in little. It consists of beautiful outline
copies of the great masters, published at so cheap a rate as to be within the reach of a school-boy.
Within the present year, also, two series of Views in Great Britain, one of Views in London,
and another of Paris, have been publishing at the rate of threepence for each view; and when
we see among their artists the names of Westall, Pugin, and Pye, we have a sufficient voucher
for their excellence.

A passing notice of a few of the more splendid works of art, (for the above are among the cheap
and popular projects of the day,) and we must conclude.

    [2] The only place in which they do not progress mutually is the
        theatre. Look at the scenery of our patent theatres, and compare
        it with the vulgar daubs even of John Kemble's time. Some of the
        scenes by Stanfield, Roberts, Grieve, and Pugh, are "perfect
        pictures." Yet the language of the stage is at a stand, and
        insipid comedy, dull tragedy, and stupid farce are more abundant
        than before the "march of mind".

    [3] While on the subject of wood-engraving, perhaps we may he
        allowed to mention our own humble plan of illustrating a sheet
        of letter-press for twopence. Of course, perfection in the
        engraving department would have ruined all parties concerned;
        for each of our subjects (as the miniature painters tell you of
        their works) might be worked up to "any price". It is now six
        years since the MIRROR was commenced, and as we are not speaking
        of ourselves, individually, we hope we may refer to the
        progressive improvement of the graphic department without any
        charge of vanity.

It would be tedious to enumerate even a small portion of the fine pictures which have been
engraved during the last two years; the mention of two or three will answer our purpose. Every
printseller's window will attest the fact. Only let the reader step into Mr. Colnaghi's parlours,
in Cockspur-street, and we might say the spacious print gallery in Pall Mall. There let him
turn over a few of the host of fine portraits which have been transferred from the canvass
to the copper--the excellent series of royal portraits--and of men whose names will shine in
the history of their country, when their portraits shall be gathered into the portfolios of
a few collectors. Among portraits, we ought, however, to recollect Mr. Lodge's invaluable collection
of historical characters, the originals of which were exhibited a few months since, previous
to their republication in a more economical form. The Temple of Jupiter, published a few months
since, is perhaps one of the proudest triumphs of the year. Martin's Deluge, too, has lately
appeared, and we look forward to the publication of his last splendid picture, the Fall of
Nineveh, with high hopes.

In the SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER[4] (published with the present) we have noticed in detail a few
of the many superb engravings which embellish the Christmas presents for the ensuing year,
as well as their literary talent, by a string of extracts like

  "Orient pearls at random strung."

The success of these elegant works has benefited our artists to the sum of twelve thousand
pounds, in their preparation for 1829. A fortnight since we mentioned the cost of the plates
of the Literary Souvenir to be 100l. and upwards for each subject. Another work, still more
splendid, (being nearly double the price,) is under the direction of Mr. Charles Heath, whose
masterly hand is visible in some of the finest engraving ever submitted to the world--equalled
only by a rival in its first year--one of the best proofs of the patronage these works enjoy.
It would be invidious to particularize--but we must mention the transference of two of Martin's
designs--Marcus Curtius (in the Forget Me Not) and Christ Tempted on the Mount--as two of the
most surprising efforts of genius we have ever witnessed. Our readers need not be told that
all the engravings are on steel; and were it not for the adoption of this lasting metal, the

    [4] The engraving is from Prout's exquisite picture of the
        magnificent city of Vicenza--for which we recollect our
        obligation to the "Forget Me Not."

cost of half the engravings would exceed that of the whole work: all we hope is, that the public
patronage may be as lasting as the metal; then it will be no idle vaunt to call this the march,
or even race, of genius. In conclusion, we recommend all our lady friends (who have not done
so) to place on their drawing-room table a Print Album, or Scrap Book, to be supported "by
voluntary contributions." They may then form a pretty correct estimate of the taste of their
visiters; and if taste in the fine arts be a test of virtue and integrity, they may even settle
the claims of any two rival aspirants by this fair and unerring method, which should admit
of no appeal.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANECDOTES OF CHRISTINA, THE YOUNG QUEEN OF SWEDEN.

(For The Mirror.)

Christina was the only child of the great Gustavus Adolphus, who succeeded to the throne of
her father in 1632, when she was but five years of age. The young queen, at an early age, discovered
but little taste for the society and occupations of her sex. When young, she was capable of
reading the Greek historians. At the age of eighteen she assumed the reins of government. Several
princes of Europe aspired to her hand; but she rejected them all. To prevent a renewal of applications
on this subject, she solemnly appointed Gustavus her successor, but without the smallest participation
in the rights of the crown during her own life. During her minority, Sweden enjoyed internal
repose, but was involved in a long war with the German empire. She was crowned with great splendour
in the year 1650. From this time she entertained a philosophical contempt for pomp and parade,
and a kind of disgust for the affairs of state. She invited to her court men of the first reputation
in various studies. She was a great collector of books, manuscripts, medals, paintings, &c.
In 1654, when she was only in her 28th year, Christina abdicated the crown, in order that she
might live a life of freedom. With her crown, she renounced the Lutheran and embraced the Catholic
religion. In quitting the scene of her regal power, she proceeded to Rome, where she intended
to fix her abode. Some disgust which she received at Rome, induced her, in the space of two
years, to determine to visit France. Here she was treated with respect by Louis XIV., but the
ladies were shocked with her masculine appearance and demeanour, and the unguarded freedom
of her conversation. Apartments were assigned her at Fontainbleau, where she committed an action,
which has indelibly stained her memory, and for which, in other countries, (says her biographer,)
she would have paid the forfeit of her own life. This was the murder of an Italian, Monaldeschi,
her master of the horse, who had betrayed some secret intrusted to him. He was summoned into
a gallery in the palace; letters were then shown to him, at the sight of which he turned pale,
and entreated for mercy; but he was instantly stabbed by two of her own domestics in an apartment
adjoining that in which she herself was. The French court was justly offended at this atrocious
deed; yet it met with vindicators, among whom was Leibnitz, whose name was disgraced by the
cause which he attempted to justify. Christina was sensible that she was now regarded with
horror in France, and would gladly have visited England, but she received no encouragement
for that purpose from Cromwell. She returned to Rome, and resumed her amusements in the arts
and sciences. In 1660, on the death of Charles Gustavus, she took a journey to Sweden to recover
her crown; but her ancient subjects rejected her claims, and submitted to a second renunciation
of the throne; after which she returned to Rome. Some differences with the pope made her resolve,
in 1662, once more to return to Sweden; but the conditions annexed by the senate to her residence
there were now so mortifying, that she proceeded no farther than Hamburgh. She went back to
Rome, and cultivated a correspondence with the learned men there, and in other parts of Europe,
and died in 1689, leaving behind her many letters, a "Collection of Miscellaneous Thoughts
or Maxims," and "Reflections on the Life and Actions of Alexander the Great."

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

METHOD OF ASCERTAINING THE STATE OF THE LUNGS.

(For The Mirror.)

Persons desirous of ascertaining the true state of their lungs, are directed to draw in as
much breath as they conveniently can; they are then to count as far as they are able, in a
slow and audible voice, without drawing in more breath. The number of seconds they can continue
counting must be carefully observed; in a consumption, the time does not exceed ten, and is
frequently less than six seconds; in pleurisy and pneumonia, it ranges from nine to four seconds.
When the lungs are in a sound condition, the time will range as high as from twenty to thirty-five
seconds.

G.W.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COSMOPOLITE.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTISTICAL ERRORS.

A SECOND CHAPTER OF BULLS.

(For The Mirror.)

I saw a picture not long since, in Edinburgh, copied from an engraving in Boydell's Shakspeare;
subject,--"Lear (and suite) in the storm," but coloured according to the imagination and taste
of the artist; its name ought assuredly to have been Redcap and the blue-devils, for the venerable
and lamented monarch had fine streaming locks of the real carrot hue, whilst his very hideous
companions showed blue faces, and blue armour; and with their strangely contorted bodies seemed
meet representatives of some of the infernal court.--In a highly adorned prayer book, published
in the reign of William III., the engravings of which are from silver-plates, one print illustrates
our Lord's simile of the mote and beam, by a couple of men aiming at each other's visual organs,
ineffectually enough, one having a great log of wood growing from his eye, and the other being
blind in one eye from a cataract; at least, though I think I do not err in saying, a moat and
castle, in it--I have seen an old edition of Jeremy Taylor's "Life and Death of Christ," illustrated
with many remarkably good engravings. Of one of these the subject is, the Impotent Man at the
Pool of Bethesda; the fore ground is occupied by our Saviour, the cripple, and other invalids;
and in the distance appears a small pond palisaded by slender pilasters; over it hovers an
angel, who, with a long pole, is, to the marvel of the beholders, dexterously "troubling the
waters." In the same volume, some of the figures are clad in the garb of the time when drawn,
and St. Jude is reading the New Testament in a pair of spectacles!--In Holyrood House, and
in one of the rooms added in the days of Charles II., is a panel-painting of "the Infant Hercules
strangling the serpents;" and leaping up in front of the cradle, appears one of those pretty
and rare spaniels called King Charles's breed. In the same palace, and in one of the chambers,
once occupied by the unfortunate Mary, is a very old painting, intended, as the guide assures
visitors, to represent St. Peter's vision of the great sheet; it may be, but if so, one archangel
in military sandals, holding in his hands a small towel, represents (by a figure in painting
I presume,) St. Peter, the sheet, and its innumerable living contents. He must have taken a
hint, from the artist who painted for the passage through the Red Sea nothing but ocean, assuring
his employer, that the Israelites could not be seen, because they were all gone over, and the
Egyptians were every one drowned!--"I once saw," writes a friend, "a full length portrait of
Wordsworth, in a modern painting of 'Christ riding into Jerusalem;' it was amongst a group
of Jews, and next to a likeness of Voltaire. I believe the painter intended to contrast the
countenances of the Christian and infidel poets, and thus pay a handsome compliment to the
former; but the taste that placed the ancients and moderns together, remind me of a fine old
painting of the Flemish school; a 'David with Goliah's head,' in the fore-ground of which were
a number of fat Dutchmen, dressed in blue coats and leather breeches, with pipes in their mouths."--"Raphael,"
says a little French work on painting, in my possession, speaking of unity of time, "A peché
contre cette regle, dans son tableau d'Heliodore, ou il fait intervenir le Pape Jules 2 dans
le Temple de Jerusalem porte sur les epaules, des Gonfalonniers." The same work notices a breach
of the unity of design in Paul Veronese, "qui dans la partie droite d'un de ses tableaux, a
represente Jesus Christ benissant l'eau, dont il va être baptise par St. Jean Baptiste; et
dans la partie gauche notre Seigneur tente par le diable."--Upon the celebrated "Transfiguration"
of Raphael, I heard an artist remark, "undoubtedly it is the first picture in the world, yet
the painter has erred in these respects:--the upper portion of the picture is occupied by the
subject, but the lower and fore-ground by the Healing of the Demoniac. Now that event did not
happen until after the transfiguration, and we infringe upon our Saviour's ubiquity by supposing
it to occur (contrary to the sacred story) at the same time. He may, indeed, as God be omnipresent,
but as man, the New Testament no where asserts that the Incarnate Presence was in different
places at the same moment." Instances of erroneous judgment are frequent in those who illustrate
holy writ. Some have attempted to embody Him, "whom no man hath seen at any time." Some have
filled their skies with beings as little aerial as possible, or apotheoses of the Virgin and
sundry saints. Angels, as some represent them, even in whole lengths, are by anatomists regarded
as monsters; but what then are the chubby winged heads without bodies, with which some artists
etherealize their works. Some err by mingling on the same canvass the sacred and profane; scripture
characters and the non-descripts of heathen mythology. Nor is poetry free from the latter error,
as is exemplified in the major and minor epics, &c., of many Christian poets. The drawings
of the monks, splendid in colouring and beautiful in finish, are mostly ludicrous in design,
from glaring anachronisms, erroneous perspective, &c. I saw a print in Montfauçon, where fish
were gamboling like porpusses on the surface of the sea, and one or two were visible through
the paddles of a boat. In the same volume was a print of the apotheosis of St. Louis, from
an illumination. The holy prince was represented dying in the fore-ground, but over head were
a couple of angels flying away with his soul, (under the figure of a wretched infant, skinny
and naked, save the glory that covered his head,) in a kind of sheet, or rather sack.

But to detail all the absurdities and indecencies of these revered artists, whether limners,
or carvers in wood, were endless. Their anachronisms, however, have been of considerable service
to the antiquary. Sculpture has its monstrosities, architecture its incongruities, though not
so palpable as those of painting, because the art is less generally understood by the common
observer, or rather pictorial errors are in general easily detected by the eye alone, and sometimes
by the most commonly informed mind; but architectural defects are only recognisable by those
who have studied the principles of this fine art. Poetry, I am sorry to say, is not exempt
from bulls and blunders, of various kinds and degrees of enormity; many of which have been,
from time to time, exposed in a very amusing manner. I shall therefore, in conclusion, crave
the liberty of producing one which has lately come under my own cognizance. A modern poet,
whose compositions are fraught with beauty and genius, sings:--

  "Then swooped the winds, that hurl the giant oak
  From Snowdon's altitude."

And another, in stanzas of extreme strength and eloquent description, describes a storm at
night "among the mountains of Snowdon," with these expressions:--

  ----"The bird of night
  Screams from her straw-built nest, as from the womb
  Of infant death, and wheels her drowsy flight
  Amid the pine-clad rocks, with wonder and afright."

  ----"The night-breeze dies
  Faint, on the mountain-ash leaves that surround
  Snowdon's dark peaks."

Now, a painful pilgrimage of eleven hours, up Snowdon and back again, enables me to declare
that had oaks, pines, and service-trees adorned that appalling and volcanic chaos, five or
six years since, some storm sufficient to have shattered the universe, must have swept them
all away, ere I looked upon that dreary assemblage of rocks which seems like the ruins of a
world. I ascended from the Capel Cerig side of the mountain, and therefore venture not to say
what may be the aspect of the Llanberries; but the only verdure I beheld, was that of short,
brown heathy grass, a few stunted furze-bushes, and patches of that vividly green moss, which
is spongy and full of water. The only living inhabitants of these wilds were a few ruffian-like
miners, two or three black slugs, and a scanty flock of straggling half-starved mountain sheep,
with their brown, ropy coats. The guide told me, that even eagles, had for three centuries
abandoned the desolate crags of Snowdon; and as for its being a haunt for owls, neither bird
nor mouse could reside there to supply such with subsistence. Snowdon appeared to me too swampy
to be drained for cultivation in many parts, and in most others its marble, granite and shingles,
forbade the idea of spontaneous vegetation. I am sorry for the poets, having a sincere regard
for the fraternity, but Snowdon is not adorned with pines, firs, larches, and service-trees,
like parts of the Alps; it is not wooded like the romantic Pyrenees, nor luxuriantly fertile
in fruits, flowers, and grain, like the terrible, but sylvan Etna.

M.L.B.

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD POETS

       *       *       *       *       *

DRUMMOND OF HAWTHORNDEN.

["A Lover of Old English Poetry," has, in the last London Magazine, a short paper on DRUMMOND
of HAWTHORNDEN, a name dear to every poetical mind, and every lover of early song. His intention,
he says, is "rather to excite than satiate" the taste of his readers for the poetry of Drummond,--an
object in which we cordially agree, and would contribute our offering, had not the task, in
the present instance, been already so ably performed. We cannot, therefore, do better than
introduce to our readers a few of his judicious selections. They are exquisite specimens of
the evergreen freshness of old poetry, and by their contrast with contemporary effusions will
contribute to the mosaic of our sheet. By the way, we hear of a sprinkling of the antique world
of letters in some of the "Annuals"--an introduction which reflects high credit on the taste
of the editors, and serves to prove that sicklied sentimentalities, like all other sweets,
when enjoyed to excess, will cloy the fancy, but not so as entirely to unfit the mind for a
higher species of intellectual enjoyment. We would have old and new alternate in the literary
wreath, lest, by losing the comparison, the "bright lights" of other times should be treated
with irreverence and neglect.]

FROM THE "HYMN ON THE FAIREST FAIR."

  I feel my bosom glow with wonted fires:
  Raised from the vulgar press, my mind aspires,
  Wing'd with high thoughts, unto His praise to climb
  From deep Eternity who call'd forth time:--
  That ESSENCE, which, not mov'd, makes each thing move,--
  Uncreate beauty--all-creating love...
  Ineffable, all-powerful GOD, all free,--
  Thou only liv'st, and all things live by thee...
  Perfection's sum--prime cause of every cause,
  Midst and beginning, where all good doth pause...
  Incomprehensible, by reachless height;
  And unperceived, by excessive light.
  O King! whose greatness none can comprehend,
  Whose boundless goodness does to all extend,--
  Light of all beauty, ocean without ground,
  That standing, flowest--giving, dost abound...
  Great Architect--Lord of this universe,--
  That sight is blinded would thy greatness pierce.

Then follows this noble simile, nobly sustained, and with a flow and harmony of verse not common
in the poets of his period:--

  Ah! as a pilgrim who the Alps doth pass,
  Or Atlas' temples crown'd with winter glass,--
  The airy Caucasus, the Apennine,
  Pyrenees' cliffs, where sun doth never shine;--
  When he some craggy hills hath overwent,
  Begins to think on rest, his journey spent,
  Till mounting some tall mountain he do find
  More heights before him than he left behind,--
  With halting pace so while I would me raise
  To the unbounded limits of Thy praise,
  Some part of way I thought to have o'errun;
  But now I see how scarce I have begun--
  With wonders new my spirits range possest,
  And, wandering wayless, in a maze them rest.

  Oh! that the cause which doth consume our joy
  Would the remembrance of it too destroy!

LIFE.

    Woods cut again do grow:
  Bud doth the rose and daisy, winter done,
  But we, once dead, do no more see the sun!
    What fair is wrought
  Falls in the prime, and passeth like a thought.

SONNET.--SPRING.
  The sad memorials only of my pain
  Do with thee come, which turn my sweets to sours.
  Thou art the same which still thou wert before,
  Delicious, lusty, amiable, fair,
  But she whose breath embalmed thy wholesome air
  Is gone--nor gold, nor gems can her restore,
  Neglected virtue--seasons, go and come,
  When thine, forgot, lie closed in a tomb.

SONNET.

SLEEP.

  Now while the Night her sable veil hath spread,
    And silently her resty coach doth roll,
  Rousing with her, from Thetis' azure bed,
    Those starry nymphs which dance about the pole;
  While Cynthia, in purest cypress clad.
    The Latmian shepherd in a trance descries,
    And, looking pale from height of all the skies,
  She dyes her beauties in a blushing red;
    While Sleep, in triumph, closed hath all eyes,
  And birds and beasts a silence sweet do keep,
  And Proteus' monstrous people in the deep,--
    The winds and waves, hush'd up, to rest entice,--
  I wake, I turn, I weep, oppress'd with pain,
  Perplex'd in the meanders of my brain.

       *       *       *       *       *

  Hark, happy lovers, hark!
  This first and last of joys,
  This sweetener of annoys,
  This nectar of the gods,
  You call a kiss, is with itself at odds:
  And half so sweet is not,
  In equal measure got
  At light of sun as it is in the dark:
  Hark, happy lovers, hark!

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER

       *       *       *       *       *

INDIAN FEAST OF SOULS.

Every three or four years, by a general agreement, the Indians disinter the bodies of such
as have died within that time; finding the soft parts mouldered away, they carefully clean
the bones, and each family wrap up the remains of their departed friends in new fur. They are
then laid together in one mound or barrow, and the ceremony concludes with a feast, with dances,
songs, speeches, games, and mock combats.

       *       *       *       *       *

PALEY.

We think it next to impossible for a candid unbeliever to read the Evidences of Paley, in their
proper order, unshaken. His Natural Theology will open the heart, that it may understand, or
at least receive the Scriptures, if any thing can. It is philosophy in its highest and noblest
sense; scientific, without the jargon of science; profound, but so clear that its depth is
disguised. There is nothing of the "budge Doctor" here; speculations which will convince, if
aught will, that "in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," are made familiar
as household words. They are brought home to the experience of every man, the most ordinary
observer on the facts of nature with which he is daily conversant. A thicker clothing, for
instance, is provided in winter for that tribe of animals which are covered with fur. Now,
in these days, such an assertion would be backed by an appeal to some learned Rabbi of a Zoological
Society, who had written a deep pamphlet, upon what he would probably call the Theory of Hair.
But to whom does Paley refer us? To any dealer in rabbit skins. The curious contrivance in
the bones of birds, to unite strength with lightness, is noticed. The bore is larger, in proportion
to the weight of the bone, than in other animals; it is empty; the substance of the bone itself
is of a closer texture. For these facts, any "operative" would quote Sir Everard Home, or Professor
Cuvier, by way of giving a sort of philosophical éclat to the affair, and throwing a little
learned dust in the eyes of the public. Paley, however, advises you to make your own observations
when you happen to be engaged in the scientific operation of picking the leg or wing of a chicken.
The very singular correspondence between the two sides of any animal, the right hand answering
to the left, and so on, is touched upon, as a proof of a contriving Creator, and a very striking
one it is. Well! we have a long and abstruse problem in chances worked out to show that it
was so many millions, and so many odd thousands to one, that accident could not have produced
the phenomenon; not a bit of it. Paley, who was probably scratching his head at the moment,
offers no other confirmation of his assertion, than that it is the most difficult thing in
the world to get a wig made even, seldom as it is that the face is made awry. The circulation
of the blood, and the provision for its getting from the heart to the extremities, and back
again, affords a singular demonstration of the Maker of the body being an admirable Master
both of mechanics and hydrostatics. But what is the language in which Paley talks of this process?--technical?--that
mystical nomenclature of Diaforius, which frightens country patients out of their wits, thinking,
as they very naturally do, that a disease must be very horrid which involves such very horrid
names? Hear our anatomist from Giggleswick.

He cares not whence he fetches his illustrations, provided they are to the purpose. The laminae
of the feathers of birds are kept together by teeth that hook into one another, "as a latch
enters into the catch, and fastens a door." The eyes of the mole are protected by being very
small, and buried deep in a cushion of skin, so that the apertures leading to them are like
pin-holes in a piece of velvet, scarcely pervious to loose particles of earth. The snail without
wings, feet, or thread, adheres to a stalk by a provision of sticking-plaster. The lobster,
as he grows, is furnished with a way of uncasing himself of his buckler, and drawing his legs
out of his boots when they become too small for him.

In this unambitious manner does Paley prosecute his high theme, drawing, as it were, philosophy
from the clouds. But it is not merely the fund of entertaining knowledge which the Natural
Theology contains, or the admirable address displayed in the adaption of it, which fits it
for working conviction; the "sunshine of the breast," the cheerful spirit with which its benevolent
author goes on his way ([Greek: kudei gaion],) this it is that carries the coldest reader captive,
and constrains him to confess within himself, and even in spite of himself, "it is good for
me to be here."

...We mourn over the leaves of our peaches and plum-trees, as they wither under a blight. What
does Paley see in this? A legion of animated beings (for such is a blight) claiming their portion
of the bounty of Nature, and made happy by our comparatively trifling privation, We are tortured
by bodily pain,--Paley himself was so, even at the moment that he was thus nobly vindicating
God's wisdom and ways. What of that? Pain is not the object of contrivance--no anatomist ever
dreamt of explaining any organ of the body on the principle of the thumb screw; it is itself
productive of good; it is seldom both violent, and long continued; and then its pauses and
intermissions become positive pleasures. "It has the power of shedding a satisfaction over
intervals of ease, which I believe," says this true philosopher, "few enjoyments exceed." The
returns of an hospital in his neighbourhood lie before him. Does he conjure up the images of
Milton's lazar-house, and sicken at the spectacle of human suffering? No--he finds the admitted
6,420--the dead, 234--the cured, 5,476; his eye settles upon the last, and he is content.

There is nothing in the world which has not more handles than one; and it is of the greatest
consequence to get a habit of taking hold by the best. The bells speak as we make them; "how
many a tale their music tells!" Hogarth's industrious apprentice might hear in them that he
should be "Lord Mayor of London"--the idle apprentice that he should be hanged at Tyburn. The
landscape looks as we see it; if we go to meet a friend, every distant object assumes his shape--

  "In great and small, and round and square,
  'Tis Johnny, Johnny, every where."

Crabbe's lover passed over the very same heath to his mistress and from her; yet as he went,
all was beauty--as he returned all was blank. The world does not more surely provide different
kinds of food for different animals, than it furnishes doubts to the sceptic and hopes to the
believer, as he takes it. The one, in an honest and good heart, pours out the box of ointment
on a Saviour's head--the other, in the pride of his philosophy, only searches into it for a
dead fly.--Q. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ALL FOR THE BEST."

When Bernard Gilpin was summoned up to London to give an account of himself and his creed before
Bonner, he chanced to break his leg on the way; and, on some persons retorting upon him a favourite
saying of his own, "that nothing happens to us but what is intended for our good," and asking
him whether it was for his good that he had broken his leg, he answered, "that he made no question
but it was." And so it turned out, for before he was able to travel again, Queen Mary died,
and he was set at liberty.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men keep their word simply because it is right to do so. They feel it is right, and ask no
further questions. Conscience carries along with it its own authority--its own credentials.
The depraved appetites may rebel against it, but they are aware that it is rebellion.--Q. Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARAB HOSPITALITY.

M. Pacho, the African traveller, lately arrived at Marmorica, when the rains had commenced,
and the ground was preparing for the seed, and was admitted to all the rites of Arab hospitality.
Invited to a great feast, he was regaled with the usual dainty of a sheep roasted whole, and
eaten with the fingers; while girls, dressed as Caryatides, presented a large vase of milk,
which was passed round to the company. All that was expected in return was to cover bits of
paper with writing, and thus convert them into amulets; for, in his capacity of sorcerer, the
Christian is supposed to possess supernatural powers.--Edinburgh Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

IMPROMPTU ON WASTE.

By the late Edward Knight, Esq. of Drury-Lane Theatre.

  Oh! waste thou not the smallest thing
    Created by Divinity;
  For grains of sand the mountains make,
    And atomics infinity.
  Waste thou not, then, the smallest time--
    'Tis imbecile infirmity;
  For well thou know'st, if aught thou know'st,
    That seconds form eternity.

Forget Me Not--1829.

       *       *       *       *       *

AN ELECTION.

G.A. Steevens says an election is "madman's holiday;" but in the last Quarterly Review we find
the following ludicrous supplemental illustration.

Let a stranger be introduced, for the first time, to an election, let him be shown a multitude
of men reeling about the streets of a borough-town, fighting within an inch of their lives,
smashing windows at the Black Bear, or where

  "High in the street, o'erlooking all the place,
  The Rampant Lion shows his kingly face;"

and yelling like those animals in Exeter 'Change at supper time; and then let him be told that
these worthies are choosing the senate of England--persons to make the laws that are to bind
them and their children, property, limb, and life, and he would certainly think the process
unpropitious. Yet, in spite of it all, a number of individuals are thus collected, who transact
the business of the nation, and represent its various interests tolerably well. The machinery
is hideous but it produces not a bad article.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPANISH COMFORTS.

In Spain, there are few or no schools in the villages and small towns, that would have the
effect of releasing the minds of the natives from monkish tyranny, which at present influences
their principles, and biasses their choice, with regard to political, and indeed almost all
other pursuits. Nor is any attention paid to trade. The peasantry simply exist, like cattle,
without any other signs of exertion, than such as the necessity of food requires. They have
no idea of rising in the world; and where there is no interest there is no activity.

It appears, that in the North of Spain, so little encouragement is given to the arts, that
even physicians are not able to obtain support; that prints are unsaleable, and no new publications
appear but newspapers; that the tradesmen neglect their persons, very seldom shaving, and having
frequently a cigar in their mouths; that the breath of the ladies smells of garlick; that the
gentlemen smoke cigars in bed; that there is hardly a single manufactory in the kingdom belonging
to a native in a flourishing state; that, from recent political events, the flocks have been
neglected, and the wool deteriorated; that cleanliness is neglected, and rats and mice unmolested;
that the porters of the most respectable houses are cobblers, who work at their trades at their
doors; that women are employed in loading and unloading ships; and that they, as well as the
servants in houses, carry every thing on their heads, even lighted candles, without the least
fear of their being extinguished; that oxen are tied to carts by their horns; that in the inns,
generally, no one can read or write but the landlords; that the constitutional soldiers, for
their fare, generally took a leathern bag, (barracho,) and got it filled with red wine as sour
as vinegar; not appearing to wish for meat, bread and cheese, with boiled soup, onions, and
garlick, forming the substance of their frugal repasts; that no memorial is erected on the
spot where the battle of Vittoria was fought in 1813; and that, in fact, there is no national
feeling in the country.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE EQUIVOCAL GENTLEMAN

