There was a lull in the bad weather on April 21, and the carpenter started to collect material
for the decking of the 'James Caird'.  He fitted the mast of the 'Stancomb Wills' fore and
aft inside the 'James Caird' as a hog-back and thus strengthened the keel with the object of
preventing our boat "hogging"--that is,  buckling in heavy seas.  He had not sufficient wood
to provide a deck,  but by using the sledge- runners and box-lids he made a framework extending
from the forecastle aft to a well.  It was a patched-up affair, but it provided a base for
a canvas covering. We had a bolt of canvas frozen stiff, and this material had to be cut and
then thawed out over the blubber-stove, foot by foot, in order that it might be sewn into the
form of a cover.  When it had been nailed and screwed into position it certainly gave an appearance
of safety to the boat, though I had an uneasy feeling that it bore a strong likeness to stage
scenery, which may look like a granite wall and is in fact nothing better than canvas and lath.
As events proved, the covering served its purpose well.  We certainly could not have lived
through the voyage without it.

Another fierce gale was blowing on April 22, interfering with our preparations for the voyage.
The cooker from No. 5 tent came adrift in a gust, and, although it was chased to the water's
edge, it disappeared for good.  Blackborrow's feet were giving him much pain, and McIlroy and
Macklin thought it would be necessary for them to operate soon. They were under the impression
then that they had no chloroform, but they found some subsequently in the medicine-chest after
we had left. Some cases of stores left on a rock off the spit on the day of our arrival were
retrieved during this day.  We were setting aside stores for the boat journey and choosing
the essential equipment from the scanty stock at our disposal.  Two ten-gallon casks had to
be filled with water melted down from ice collected at the foot of the glacier. This was a
rather slow business.  The blubber-stove was kept going all night, and the watchmen emptied
the water into the casks from the pot in which the ice was melted.  A working party started
to dig a hole in the snow-slope about forty feet above sea-level with the object of providing
a site for a camp. They made fairly good progress at first, but the snow drifted down unceasingly
from the inland ice, and in the end the party had to give up the project.

The weather was fine on April 23, and we hurried forward our preparations.  It was on this
day I decided finally that the crew for the 'James Caird' should consist of Worsley, Crean,
McNeish, McCarthy, Vincent, and myself.  A storm came on about noon, with driving snow and
heavy squalls.  Occasionally the air would clear for a few minutes, and we could see a line
of pack-ice, five miles out, driving across from west to east.  This sight increased my anxiety
to get away quickly. Winter was advancing, and soon the pack might close completely round the
island and stay our departure for days or even for weeks, I did not think that ice would remain
around Elephant Island continuously during the winter, since the strong winds and fast currents
would keep it in motion.  We had noticed ice and bergs, going past at the rate of four or five
knots.  A certain amount of ice was held up about the end of our spit, but the sea was clear
where the boat would have to be launched.

Worsley, Wild, and I climbed to the summit of the seaward rocks and examined the ice from a
better vantage-point than the beach offered. The belt of pack outside appeared to be sufficiently
broken for our purposes, and I decided that, unless the conditions forbade it, we would make
a start in the 'James Caird' on the following morning. Obviously the pack might close at any
time.  This decision made, I spent the rest of the day looking over the boat, gear, and stores,
and discussing plans with Worsley and Wild.

Our last night on the solid ground of Elephant Island was cold and uncomfortable.  We turned
out at dawn and had breakfast.  Then we launched the 'Stancomb Wills' and loaded her with stores,
gear, and ballast, which would be transferred to the 'James Caird' when the heavier boat had
been launched.  The ballast consisted of bags made from blankets and filled with sand, making
a total weight of about 1000 lbs.  In addition we had gathered a number of round boulders and
about 250 lbs. of ice, which would supplement our two casks of water.

The stores taken in the 'James Caird', which would last six men for one month, were as follows:

   30 boxes of matches.
    6½ gallons paraffin.
    1 tin methylated spirit.
   10 boxes of flamers.
    1 box of blue lights.
    2 Primus stoves with spare parts and prickers.
    1 Nansen aluminium cooker.
    6 sleeping-bags.
   A few spare socks.
   A few candles and some blubber-oil in an oil-bag.

Food:

     3 cases sledging rations = 300 rations.
     2 cases nut food         = 200    "
     2 cases biscuits         = 600 biscuits.
     1 case lump sugar.
    30 packets of Trumilk.
     1 tin. of Bovril cubes.
     1 tin of Cerebos salt.
    36 gallons of water.
   250 lbs. of ice.

Instruments:

   Sextant.
   Sea-anchor.
   Binoculars.
   Charts.
   Prismatic compass.
   Aneroid.

The swell was slight when the 'Stancomb Wills' was launched and the boat got under way without
any difficulty; but half an hour later, when we were pulling down the 'James Caird', the swell
increased suddenly. Apparently the movement of the ice outside had made an opening and allowed
the sea to run in without being blanketed by the line of pack. The swell made things difficult.
Many of us got wet to the waist while dragging the boat out--a serious matter in that climate.
When the 'James Caird' was afloat in the surf she nearly capsized among the rocks before we
could get her clear, and Vincent and the carpenter, who were on the deck, were thrown into
the water. This was really bad luck, for the two men would have small chance of drying their
clothes after we had got under way.  Hurley, who had the eye of the professional photographer
for "incidents," secured a picture of the upset, and I firmly believe that he would have liked
the two unfortunate men to remain in the water until he could get a "snap" at close quarters;
but we hauled them out immediately, regardless of his feelings.

The 'James Caird' was soon clear of the breakers.  We used all the available ropes as a long
painter to prevent her drifting away to the north-east, and then the 'Stancomb Wills' came
alongside, transferred her load, and went back to the shore for more.  As she was being beached
this time the sea took her stern and half filled her with water.  She had to be turned over
and emptied before the return journey could be made.  Every member of the crew of the 'Stancomb
Wills' was wet to the skin.  The water-casks were towed behind the 'Stancomb Wills' on this
second journey, and the swell, which was increasing rapidly, drove the boat on to the rocks,
where one of the casks was slightly stove in.  This accident proved later to be a serious one,
since some sea-water had entered the cask and the contents were now brackish.

By midday the 'James Caird' was ready for the voyage.  Vincent and the carpenter had secured
some dry clothes by exchange with members of the shore party  (I heard afterwards that it was
a full fortnight before the soaked garments were finally dried), and the boat's crew was standing
by waiting for the order to cast off. A moderate westerly breeze was blowing.  I went ashore
in the 'Stancomb Wills' and had a last word with Wild, who was remaining in full command, with
directions as to his course of action in the event of our failure to bring relief, but I practically
left the whole situation and scope of action and decision to his own judgment, secure in the
knowledge that he would act wisely.  I told him that I trusted the party to him and said good-bye
to the men. Then we pushed off for the last time, and within a few minutes I was aboard the
'James Caird'.  The crew of the 'Stancomb Wills' shook hands with us as the boats bumped together
and offered us the last good wishes.  Then, setting our jib, we cut the painter and moved away
to the north-east.  The men who were staying behind made a pathetic little group on the beach,
with the grim heights of the island behind them and the sea seething at their feet, but they
waved to us and gave three hearty cheers.  There was hope in their hearts and they trusted
us to bring the help that they needed.

I had all sails set, and the 'James Caird' quickly dipped the beach and its line of dark figures.
The westerly wind took us rapidly to the line of pack, and as we entered it I stood up with
my arm around the mast, directing the steering, so as to avoid the great lumps of ice that
were flung about in the heave of the sea.  The pack thickened and we were forced to turn almost
due east, running before the wind towards a gap I had seen in the morning from the high ground.
I could not see the gap now, but we had come out on its bearing and I was prepared to find
that it had been influenced by the easterly drift.  At four o'clock in the afternoon we found
the channel, much narrower than it had seemed in the morning but still navigable.  Dropping
sail, we rowed through without touching the ice anywhere, and by 5.30 p.m. we were clear of
the pack with open water before us.  We passed one more piece of ice in the darkness an hour
later, but the pack lay behind, and with a fair wind swelling the sails we steered our little
craft through the night, our hopes centred on our distant goal.  The swell was very heavy now,
and when the time came for our first evening meal we found great difficulty in keeping the
Primus lamp alight and preventing the hoosh splashing out of the pot.  Three men were needed
to attend to the cooking, one man holding the lamp and two men guarding the aluminium cooking-pot,
which had to be lifted clear of the Primus whenever the movement of the boat threatened to
cause a disaster.  Then the lamp had to be protected from water, for sprays were coming over
the bows and our flimsy decking was by no means water-tight.  All these operations were conducted
in the confined space under the decking, where the men lay or knelt and adjusted themselves
as best they could to the angles of our cases and ballast.  It was uncomfortable, but we found
consolation in the reflection that without the decking we could not have used the cooker at all.

The tale of the next sixteen days is one of supreme strife amid heaving waters.  The sub-Antarctic
Ocean lived up to its evil winter reputation.  I decided to run north for at least two days
while the wind held and so get into warmer weather before turning to the east and laying a
course for South Georgia.  We took two-hourly spells at the tiller.  The men who were not on
watch crawled into the sodden sleeping- bags and tried to forget their troubles for a period;
but there was no comfort in the boat. The bags and cases seemed to be alive in the unfailing
knack of presenting their most uncomfortable angles to our rest-seeking bodies.  A man might
imagine for a moment that he had found a position of ease, but always discovered quickly that
some unyielding point was impinging on muscle or bone.  The first night aboard the boat was
one of acute discomfort for us all, and we were heartily glad when the dawn came and we could
set about the preparation of a hot breakfast.

This record of the voyage to South Georgia is based upon scanty notes made day by day.  The
notes dealt usually with the bare facts of distances, positions, and weather, but our memories
retained the incidents of the passing days in a period never to be forgotten.  By running north
for the first two days I hoped to get warmer weather and also to avoid lines of pack that might
be extending beyond the main body.  We needed all the advantage that we could obtain from the
higher latitude for sailing on the great circle, but we had to be cautious regarding possible
ice-streams. Cramped in our narrow quarters and continually wet by the spray, we suffered severely
from cold throughout the journey.  We fought the seas and the winds and at the same time had
a daily struggle to keep ourselves alive.  At times we were in dire peril.  Generally we were
upheld by the knowledge that we were making progress towards the land where we would be, but
there were days and nights when we lay hove to, drifting across the storm-whitened seas and
watching with eyes interested rather than apprehensive the uprearing masses of water, flung
to and fro by Nature in the pride of her strength. Deep seemed the valleys when we lay between
the reeling seas. High were the hills when we perched momentarily on the tops of giant combers.
Nearly always there were gales.  So small was our boat and so great were the seas that often
our sail flapped idly in the calm between the crests of two waves. Then we would climb the
next slope and catch the full fury of the gale where the wool-like whiteness of the breaking
water surged around us.  We had our moments of laughter--rare, it is true, but hearty enough.
Even when cracked lips and swollen mouths checked the outward and visible signs of amusement
we could see a joke of the primitive kind.  Man's sense of humour is always most easily stirred
by the petty misfortunes of his neighbours, and I shall never forget Worsley's efforts on one
occasion to place the hot aluminium stand on top of the Primus stove after it had fallen off
in an extra heavy roll.  With his frost-bitten fingers he picked it up, dropped it, picked
it up again, and toyed with it gingerly as though it were some fragile article of lady's wear.
We laughed, or rather gurgled with laughter.

The wind came up strong and worked into a gale from the north-west on the third day out.  We
stood away to the east.  The increasing seas discovered the weaknesses of our decking.  The
continuous blows shifted the box-lids and sledge-runners so that the canvas sagged down and
accumulated water.  Then icy trickles, distinct from the driving sprays, poured fore and aft
into the boat.  The nails that the carpenter had extracted from cases at Elephant Island and
used to fasten down the battens were too short to make firm the decking. We did what we could
to secure it, but our means were very limited, and the water continued to enter the boat at
a dozen points.  Much baling was necessary, and nothing that we could do prevented our gear
from becoming sodden.  The searching runnels from the canvas were really more unpleasant than
the sudden definite douches of the sprays. Lying under the thwarts during watches below, we
tried vainly to avoid them. There were no dry places in the boat, and at last we simply covered
our heads with our Burberrys and endured the all-pervading water.  The baling was work for
the watch.  Real rest we had none.  The perpetual motion of the boat made repose impossible;
we were cold, sore, and anxious.  We moved on hands and knees in the semi-darkness of the day
under the decking.  The darkness was complete by 6 p.m., and not until 7 a.m. of the following
day could we see one another under the thwarts. We had a few scraps of candle, and they were
preserved carefully in order that we might have light at meal-times.  There was one fairly
dry spot in the boat, under the solid original decking at the bows, and we managed to protect
some of our biscuit from the salt water; but I do not think any of us got the taste of salt
out of our mouths during the voyage.

The difficulty of movement in the boat would have had its humorous side if it had not involved
us in so many aches and pains.  We had to crawl under the thwarts in order to move along the
boat, and our knees suffered considerably.  When watch turned out it was necessary for me to
direct each man by name when and where to move, since if all hands had crawled about at the
same time the result would have been dire confusion and many bruises. Then there was the trim
of the boat to be considered.  The order of the watch was four hours on and four hours off,
three men to the watch.  One man had the tiller-ropes, the second man attended to the sail,
and the third baled for all he was worth. Sometimes when the water in the boat had been reduced
to reasonable proportions, our pump could be used.  This pump, which Hurley had made from the
Flinder's bar case of our ship's standard compass, was quite effective, though its capacity
was not large.  The man who was attending the sail could pump into the big outer cooker, which
was lifted and emptied overboard when filled. We had a device by which the water could go direct
from the pump into the sea through a hole in the gunwale, but this hole had to be blocked at
an early stage of the voyage, since we found that it admitted water when the boat rolled.

While a new watch was shivering in the wind and spray, the men who had been relieved groped
hurriedly among the soaked sleeping-bags and tried to steal a little of the warmth created
by the last occupants; but it was not always possible for us to find even this comfort when
we went off watch.  The boulders that we had taken aboard for ballast had to be shifted continually
in order to trim the boat and give access to the pump, which became choked with hairs from
the moulting sleeping-bags and finneskoe.  The four reindeer-skin sleeping-bags shed their
hair freely owing to the continuous wetting, and soon became quite bald in appearance. The
moving of the boulders was weary and painful work.  We came to know every one of the stones
by sight and touch, and I have vivid memories of their angular peculiarities even to-day. 
They might have been of considerable interest as geological specimens to a scientific man under
happier conditions. As ballast they were useful. As weights to be moved about in cramped quarters
they were simply appalling.  They spared no portion of our poor bodies.  Another of our troubles,
worth mention here, was the chafing of our legs by our wet clothes, which had not been changed
now for seven months.  The insides of our thighs were rubbed raw, and the one tube of Hazeline
cream in our medicine-chest did not go far in alleviating our pain, which was increased by
the bite of the salt water.  We thought at the time that we never slept. The fact was that
we would doze off uncomfortably, to be aroused quickly by some new ache or another call to
effort.  My own share of the general unpleasantness was accentuated by a finely developed bout
of sciatica.  I had become possessor of this originally on the floe several months earlier.

Our meals were regular in spite of the gales.  Attention to this point was essential, since
the conditions of the voyage made increasing calls upon our vitality.  Breakfast, at 8 a.m.,
consisted of a pannikin of hot hoosh made from Bovril sledging ration, two biscuits, and some
lumps of sugar.  Lunch came at 1 p.m., and comprised Bovril sledging ration, eaten raw, and
a pannikin of hot milk for each man.  Tea, at 5 p.m., had the same menu.  Then during the night
we had a hot drink, generally of milk.  The meals were the bright beacons in those cold and
stormy days.  The glow of warmth and comfort produced by the food and drink made optimists
of us all.  We had two tins of Virol, which we were keeping for an emergency; but, finding
ourselves in need of an oil- lamp to eke out our supply of candles, we emptied one of the tins
in the manner that most appealed to us, and fitted it with a wick made by shredding a bit of
canvas. When this lamp was filled with oil it gave a certain amount of light, though it was
easily blown out, and was of great assistance to us at night.  We were fairly well off as regarded
fuel, since we had 6½ gallons of petroleum.

A severe south-westerly gale on the fourth day out forced us to heave to.  I would have liked
to have run before the wind, but the sea was very high and the 'James Caird' was in danger
of broaching to and swamping.  The delay was vexatious, since up to that time we had been making
sixty or seventy miles a day, good going with our limited sail area.  We hove to under double-reefed
mainsail and our little jigger, and waited for the gale to blow itself out.  During that afternoon
we saw bits of wreckage, the remains probably of some unfortunate vessel that had failed to
weather the strong gales south of Cape Horn.  The weather conditions did not improve, and on
the fifth day out the gale was so fierce that we were compelled to take in the double-reefed
mainsail and hoist our small jib instead.  We put out a sea-anchor to keep the 'James Caird's'
head up to the sea. This anchor consisted of a triangular canvas bag fastened to the end of
the painter and allowed to stream out from the bows.  The boat was high enough to catch the
wind, and, as she drifted to leeward, the drag of the anchor kept her head to windward.  Thus
our boat took most of the seas more or less end on. Even then the crests of the waves often
would curl right over us and we shipped a great deal of water, which necessitated unceasing
baling and pumping. Looking out abeam, we would see a hollow like a tunnel formed as the crest
of a big wave toppled over on to the swelling body of water. A thousand times it appeared as
though the 'James Caird' must be engulfed; but the boat lived.  The south-westerly gale had
its birthplace above the Antarctic Continent, and its freezing breath lowered the temperature
far towards zero.  The sprays froze upon the boat and gave bows, sides, and decking a heavy
coat of mail. This accumulation of ice reduced the buoyancy of the boat, and to that extent
was an added peril; but it possessed a notable advantage from one point of view. The water
ceased to drop and trickle from the canvas, and the spray came in solely at the well in the
after part of the boat.  We could not allow the load of ice to grow beyond a certain point,
and in turns we crawled about the decking forward, chipping and picking at it with the available
tools.

