Have you not seen sunsets in which the mountains were imbedded in masses of clouds all burning
and blazing--yes, blazing--with unimaginable mixtures of all the colours that ever were born--intensifying
into a glory that absolutely became insupportable to the soul as insufferable to the eyes--and
that left the eyes for hours after you had retreated from the supernatural scene, even when
shut, all filled with floating films of cross-lights, cutting the sky-imagery into gorgeous
fragments? And were not the mountains of such sunsets, whether they were of land or of cloud,
sufficiently vast for your utmost capacities and powers of delight and joy longing to commune
with the Region then felt to be in very truth Heaven? Nor could the spirit, entranced in admiration,
conceive at that moment any Heaven beyond--while the senses themselves seemed to have had given
them a revelation, that as it was created could be felt but by an immortal spirit.

It elevates our being to be in the body near the sky--at once on earth and in heaven. In the
body? Yes--we feel at once fettered and free. In Time we wear our fetters, and heavy though
they be, and painfully riveted on, seldom do we welcome Death coming to strike them off--but
groan at sight of the executioner. In eternity we believe that all is spiritual--and in that
belief, which doubt sometimes shakes but to prove that its foundation lies rooted far down
below all earthquakes, endurable is the sound of dust to dust. Poets speak of the spirit, while
yet in the flesh, blending, mingling, being absorbed in the great forms of the outward universe,
and they speak as if such absorption were celestial and divine. But is not this a material
creed? Let Imagination beware how she seeks to glorify the objects of the senses, and having
glorified them, to elevate them into a kindred being with our own, exalting them that we may
claim with them that kindred being, as if we belonged to them and not they to us, forgetting
that they are made to perish, we to live for ever!

But let us descend the mountain by the side of this torrent. What a splendid series of translucent
pools! We carry "The Excursion" in our pocket, for the use of our friends; but our own presentation-copy
is here--we have gotten it by heart. And it does our heart good to hear ourselves recite. Listen,
ye Naiads, to the famous picture of the Ram:--

    "Thus having reach'd a bridge, that overarch'd
    The hasty rivulet, where it lay becalm'd
    In a deep pool, by happy chance we saw
    A twofold image; on a grassy bank
    A snow-white Ram, and in the crystal flood
    Another and the same! Most beautiful
    On the green turf, with his imperial front
    Shaggy and bold, and wreathed horns superb,
    The breathing creature stood; as beautiful
    Beneath him, show'd his shadowy counterpart;
    Each had his glowing mountains, each his sky,
    And each seem'd centre of his own fair world.
    Antipodes unconscious of each other,
    Yet, in partition, with their several spheres
    Blended in perfect stillness to our sight.
    Ah! what a pity were it to disperse
    Or to disturb so fair a spectacle,
    And yet a breath can do it."

Oh! that the Solitary, and the Pedlar, and the Poet, and the Priest and his Lady, were here
to see a sight more glorious far than that illustrious and visionary Ram. Two Christopher Norths--as
Highland chieftains--in the Royal Tartan--one burning in the air--the other in the water--two
stationary meteors, each seeming native to its own element! This setting the heather, that
the linn on fire--this ablaze with war, that tempered into truce; while the Sun, astonied at
the spectacle, nor knowing the refulgent substance from the resplendent shadow, bids the clouds
lie still in heaven, and the winds all hold their breath, that exulting nature may be permitted
for a little while to enjoy the miracle she unawares has wrought--alas! gone as she gazes,
and gone for ever! Our bonnet has tumbled into the Pool--and Christopher--like the Ram in "The
Excursion"--stands shorn of his beams--no better worth looking at than the late Laird of Macnab.

Now, since the truth must be told, that was but a Flight of Fancy--and our apparel is more
like that of a Lowland Quaker than a Highland chief. 'Tis all of a snuffy brown--an excellent
colour for hiding the dirt. Single-breasted our coatee--and we are in shorts. Were our name
to be imposed by our hat, it would be Sir Cloudesly Shovel. On our back a wallet--and in our
hand the Crutch. And thus, not without occasional alarm to the cattle, though we hurry no man's,
we go stalking along the sward and swimming across the stream, and leaping over the quagmires--by
no means unlike that extraordinary pedestrian who has been accompanying us for the last half-hour,
far overhead up-by yonder, as if he meant mischief; but he will find that we are up to a trick
or two, and not easily to be done brown by a native, a Cockney of Cloud-Land, a long-legged
awkward fellow with a head like a dragon and proud of his red plush, in that country called
thunder-and-lightning breeches, hot very, one would think, in such sultry weather--but confound
us if he has not this moment stript them off, and be not pursuing his journey in puris naturalibus--yes,
as naked as the minute he was born--our Shadow on the Clouds!

The Picture of the Ram has been declared by sumphs in search of the sublime to border on the
Burlesque. They forget that a sumph may just as truly be said to border on a sage. All things
in heaven and on earth, mediately and immediately, border on one another--much depends on the
way you look at them--and Poets, who are strange creatures, often love to enjoy and display
their power by bringing the burlesque into the region of the sublime. Of what breed was the
Tup? Cheviot, Leicester, Southdown? Had he gained the Cup at the Great North Show? We believe
not, and that his owner saw in him simply a fine specimen of an ordinary breed--a shapely and
useful animal. In size he was not to be named on the same day with the famous Ram of Derby,
"whose tail was made a rope, sir, to toll the market-bell." Jason would have thought nothing
of him compared with the Golden Fleece. The Sun sees a superior sire of flocks as he enters
Aries. Sorry are we to say it, but the truth must be spoken, he was somewhat bandy-legged,
and rather coarse in the wool. But heaven, earth, air, and water conspired to glorify him,
as the Poet and his friends chanced to come upon him at the Pool, and, more than them all united,
the Poet's own soul; and a sheep that would not have sold for fifty shillings, became Lord
Paramount of two worlds, his regal mind all the time unconscious of its empiry, and engrossed
with the thought of a few score silly ewes.

Seldom have we seen so serene a day. It seems to have lain in one and the same spirit over
all the Highlands. We have been wandering since sunrise, and 'tis now near sunset; yet not
an hour without a visible heaven in all the Lochs. In the pure element overflowing so many
spacious vales and glens profound, the great and stern objects of nature have all day long
been looking more sublime or more beautiful in the reflected shadows, invested with one universal
peace. The momentary evanescence of all that imagery at a breath touches us with the thought
that all it represents, steadfast as seems its endurance, will as utterly pass away. Such visions,
when gazed on in that wondrous depth and purity on a still slow-moving day, always inspire
some such feeling as this; and we sigh to think how transitory must be all things, when the
setting sun is seen to sink behind the mountain, and all the golden pomp at the same instant
to evanish from the Loch.

Evening is preparing to let fall her shades--and Nature, cool, fresh, and unwearied, is laying
herself down for a few hours' sleep. There had been a long strong summer drought, and a week
ago you would have pitied--absolutely pitied the poor Highlands. You missed the cottage-girl
with her pitcher at the well in the brae, for the spring scarcely trickled, and the water-cresses
were yellow before their time. Many a dancing hill-stream was dead--only here and there one
stronger than her sisters attempted a pas-seul over the shelving rocks; but all choral movements
and melodies forsook the mountains, still and silent as so much painted canvass. Waterfalls
first tamed their thunder, then listened alarmed to their own echoes, wailed themselves away
into diminutive murmurs, gasped for life, died, and were buried at the feet of the green slippery
precipices. Tarns sank into moors; and there was the voice of weeping heard and low lament
among the water-lilies. Ay, millions of pretty flowerets died in their infancy, even on their
mother's breast; the bee fainted in the desert for want of the honey-dew, and the ground-cells
of industry were hushed below the heather. Cattle lay lean on the brownness of a hundred hills,
and the hoof of the red-deer lost its fleetness. Along the shores of lochs great stones appeared,
within what for centuries had been the lowest water-mark; and whole bays, once bright and beautiful
with reed-pointed wavelets, became swamps, cracked and seamed, or rustling in the aridity with
a useless crop, to the sugh of the passing wind. On the shore of the sea alone you beheld no
change. The tides ebbed and flowed as before--the small billows racing over the silver sands
to the same goal of shells, or climbing up to the same wildflowers that bathe the foundation
of some old castle belonging to the ocean.

But the windows of heaven were opened,--and, like giants refreshed with mountain-dew, the rivers
flung themselves over the cliffs with roars of thunder. The autumnal woods are fresher than
those of summer. The mild harvest-moon will yet repair the evil done by the outrageous sun;
and, in the gracious after-growth, the green earth far and wide rejoices as in spring. Like
people that have hidden themselves in caves when their native land was oppressed, out gush
the torrents, and descend with songs to the plain. The hill-country is itself again when it
hears the voice of streams. Magnificent army of mists! whose array encompasses islands of the
sea, and who still, as thy glorious vanguard keeps deploying among the glens, rollest on in
silence more sublime than the trampling of the feet of horses, or the sound of the wheels of
chariots, to the heath-covered mountains of Scotland, we bid thee hail!

In all our wanderings through the Highlands, towards night we have always found ourselves at
home. What though no human dwelling was at hand? We cared not--for we could find a bedroom
among the casual inclinations of rocks, and of all curtains the wild-brier forms itself into
the most gracefully-festooned draperies, letting in green light alone from the intercepted
stars. Many a cave we know of--cool by day, and warm by night--how they happen to be so, we
cannot tell--where no man but ourselves ever slept, or ever will sleep; and sometimes, on startling
a doe at evening in a thicket, we have lain down in her lair, and in our slumbers heard the
rain pattering on the roofing birk-tree, but felt not one drop on our face, till at dawning
we struck a shower of diamonds from the fragrant tresses. But to-night we shall not need to
sleep among the sylvans; for our Tail has pitched our Tent on the Moor--and is now sweeping
the mountain with telescope for sight of our descending feet. Hark! signal-gun and bagpipe
hail our advent, and the Pyramid brightens in its joy, independent of the sunlight, that has
left but one streak in the sky.

THE MOORS.

FLIGHT FIRST.--GLEN-ETIVE.

Yes! all we have to do is to let down their lids--to will what our eyes shall see--and, lo!
there it is--a creation! Day dawns, and for our delight in soft illumination from the dim obscure
floats slowly up a visionary loch--island after island evolving itself into settled stateliness
above its trembling shadow, till, from the overpowering beauty of the wide confusion of woods
and waters, we seek relief, but find none, in gazing on the sky; for the east is in all the
glory of sunrise, and the heads and the names of the mountains are uncertain among the gorgeous
colouring of the clouds. Would that we were a painter! Oh! how we should dash, on the day and
interlace it with night! That chasm should be filled with enduring gloom, thicker and thicker,
nor the sun himself suffered to assuage the sullen spirit, now lowering and threatening there,
as if portentous of earthquake. Danger and fear should be made to hang together for ever on
those cliffs, and half-way up the precipice be fixed the restless cloud ascending from the
abyss, so that in imagination you could not choose but hear the cataract. The Shadows should
seem to be stalking away like evil spirits before angels of light--for at our bidding the Splendours
should prevail against them, deploying from the gates of Heaven beneath the banners of morn.
Yet the whole picture should be harmonious as a hymn--as a hymn at once sublime and sweet--serene
and solemn; nor should it not be felt as even cheerful--and sometimes as if there were about
to be merriment in Nature's heart--for the multitude of the isles should rejoice--and the new-woke
waters look as if they were waiting for the breezes to enliven them into waves, and wearied
of rest to be longing for the motion already beginning to rustle by fits along the sylvan shores.
Perhaps a deer or two--but we have opened a corner of the fringed curtains of our eyes--the
idea is gone--and Turner or Thomson must transfer from our paper to his canvass the imperfect
outline--for it is no more--and make us a present of the finished picture.

Strange that, with all our love of nature and of art, we never were a Painter. True that in
boyhood we were no contemptible hand at a Lion or a Tiger--and sketches by us of such cats
springing or preparing to spring in keelivine, dashed off some fifty or sixty years ago, might
well make Edwin Landseer stare. Even yet we are a sort of Salvator Rosa at a savage scene,
and our black-lead pencil heaps up confused shatterings of rocks, and flings a mountainous
region into convulsions, as if an earthquake heaved, in a way that is no canny, making people
shudder as if something had gone wrong with this planet of ours, and creation were falling
back into chaos. But we love scenes of beautiful repose too profoundly ever to dream of "transferring
them to canvass." Such employment would be felt by us to be desecration--though we look with
delight on the work when done by others--the picture without the process--the product of genius
without thought of its mortal instruments. We work in words, and words are, in good truth,
images, feelings, thoughts; and of these the outer world, as well as the inner, is composed,
let materialists say what they will. Prose is poetry--we have proved that to the satisfaction
of all mankind. Look! we beseech you--how a little Loch seems to rise up with its tall heronry--a
central isle--and all its sylvan braes, till it lies almost on a level with the floor of our
Cave, from which in three minutes we could hobble on our crutch down the inclining greensward
to the Bay of Waterlilies, and in that canoe be afloat among the Swans. All birches--not any
other kind of tree--except a few pines, on whose tops the large nests repose--and here and
there a still bird standing as if asleep. What a place for Roes!

The great masters, were their eyes to fall on our idle words, might haply smile--not contemptuously--on
our ignorance of art--but graciously on our knowledge of nature. All we have to do, then, is
to learn the theory and practice of art--and assuredly we should forthwith set about doing
so, had we any reasonable prospect of living long enough to open an exhibition of pictures
from our own easel. As it is, we must be contented with that Gallery, richer than the Louvre,
which our imagination has furnished with masterpieces beyond all price or purchase--many of
them touched with her own golden finger, the rest the work of high but not superior hands.
Imagination, who limns in air, has none of those difficulties to contend with that always beset,
and often baffle, artists in oils or waters. At a breath she can modify, alter, obliterate,
or restore; at a breath she can colour vacuity with rainbow hues--crown the cliff with its
castle--swing the drawbridge over the gulf profound--through a night of woods roll the river
along on its moonlit reach--by fragmentary cinctures of mist and cloud, so girdle one mountain
that it has the power of a hundred--giant rising above giant, far and wide, as if the mighty
multitude, in magnificent and triumphant disorder, were indeed scaling heaven.

To speak more prosaically, every true and accepted lover of nature regards her with a painter's
as well as a poet's eye. He breaks not down any scene rudely, and with "many an oft-repeated
stroke;" but unconsciously and insensibly he transfigures into Wholes, and all day long, from
morn till dewy eve, he is preceded, as he walks along, by landscapes retiring in their perfection,
one and all of them the birth of his own inspired spirit. All non-essentials do of themselves
drop off and disappear--all the characteristics of the scenery range themselves round a centre
recognised by the inner sense that cannot err--and thus it is that "beauty pitches her tents
before him"--that sublimity companions the pilgrim in the waste wilderness--and grandeur for
his sake keeps slowly sailing or settling in the clouds. With such pictures has our Gallery
been so thickly hung round for many years, that we have often thought there was not room for
one other single frame; yet a vacant space has always been found for every new chef-d'oeuvre
that came to add itself to our collection--and the light from that cupola so distributes itself
that it falls wherever it is wanted--wherever it is wanted not how tender the shadow! or how
solemn the gloom!

Why, we are now in Glen-Etive--and sitting with our sketch-book at the mouth of our Tent. Our
oft-repeated passionate prayer,

    "O, for a lodge in some vast wilderness!"

has once more, after more than twenty years' absence, in this haunt of our fanciful youth and
imaginative manhood, been granted, and Christopher, he thinks, could again bound along these
cliffs like a deer. Ay, well-nigh quarter of a century has elapsed since we pitched this self-same
snow-white Tent amid the purple heather, by the Linn of Dee. How fleetly goes winnowing on
the air even the weariest waving of Time's care-laden wings! A few yellow weather-stains are
on the canvass--but the pole is yet sound--or call it rather mast--for we have hoisted our
topgallant,

    "And lo! the silver cross, to Scotland dear,"

languidly lifts itself up, an ineffectual streamer, in the fitful morning breezes!

Bold son, or bright daughter of England! hast thou ever seen a SCOTTISH THRISSLE? What height
are you--Captain of the Grenadier Guards? "Six feet four on my stocking-soles." Poo--a dwarf!
Stand up with your back to that stalk. Tour head does not reach above his waist--he hangs high
over you--"his radious croun of rubies." There's a Flower! dear to Lady Nature above all others,
saving and excepting the Rose, and he is the Rose's husband--the Guardian Genii of the land
consecrated the Union, and it has been blest. Eyeing the sun like an angry star that will not
suffer eclipse either from light or shadow--but burns proudly--fiercely--in its native lustre--storm-brightened,
and undishevelled by the tempest in which it swings. See! it stoops beneath the blast within
reach of your hand. Grasp it ere it recoil aloft; and your hand will be as if it had crushed
a sleeping wasp-swarm. But you cannot crush it--to do that would require a giant with an iron
glove. Then let it alone to dally with the wind, and the sun, and the rain, and the snow--all
alike dear to its spears and rubies; and as you look at the armed lustre, you will see a beautiful
emblem and a stately of a people's warlike peace. The stalk indeed is slender, but it sways
without danger of breaking in the blast; in the calm it reposes as gently as the gowan at its
root. The softest leaf that enfolds in silk the sweetest flower of the garden, not greener
than those that sting not if but tenderly you touch them, for they are green as the garments
of the Fairies that dance by moonlight round the Symbol of old Scotland, and unchristened creatures
though they the Fairies be, they pray heaven to let fall on the AWFUL THRISSLE all the health
and happiness that are in the wholesome stars.

The dawn is softly--slowly--stealing upon day; for the uprisen sun, though here the edge of
his disc as yet be invisible, is diffusing abroad "the sweet hour of prime," and all the eastern
region is tinged with crimson, faint and fine as that which sleeps within the wreaths of the
sea-sounding shells. Hark! the eagle's earliest cry, yet in his eyrie. Another hour, and he
and his giant mate will be seen spirally ascending the skies, in many a glorious gyration,
tutoring their offspring to dally with the sunshine, that, when their plumes are stronger,
they may dally with the storm. O, Forest of Dalness! how sweet is thy name! Hundreds of red-deer
are now lying half-asleep among the fern and heather, with their antlers, could our eyes now
behold them, motionless as the birch-tree branches with which they are blended in their lair.
At the signal-belling of their king, a hero unconquered in a hundred fights, the whole herd
rises at once like a grove, and with their stately heads lifted aloft on the weather-gleam,
snuff the sweet scent of the morning air, far and wide surcharged with the honey-dew yet unmelting
on the heather, and eye with the looks of liberty the glad daylight that mantles the Black
Mount with a many-coloured garment. Ha! the first plunge of the salmon in the Rowan-tree Pool.
There again he shoots into the air, white as silver, fresh run from the sea! For Loch-Etive,
you must know, is one of the many million arms of Ocean, and bright now are rolling in the
billows of the far-heaving tide. Music meet for such a morn and such mountains. Straight stretches
the glen for leagues, and then, bending through the blue gloom, seems to wind away with one
sweep into infinitude. The Great Glen of Scotland--Glen-More itself--is not grander. But the
Great Glen of Scotland is yet a living forest. Glen-Etive has few woods or none--and the want
of them is sublime. For centuries ago pines and oaks in the course of nature all perished;
and they exist now but in tradition wavering on the tongues of old bards, or deep down in the
mosses show their black trunks to the light, when the torrents join the river in spate, and
the moor divulges its secrets as in an earthquake. Sweetly sung, thou small, brown, moorland
bird, though thy song be but a twitter! And true to thy time--even to a balmy minute--art thou,
with thy velvet tunic of black striped with yellow, as thou windest thy small but not sullen
horn--by us called in our pride HUMBLE-BEE--but not, methinks, so very humble, while booming
high in air in oft-repeated circles, wondering at our Tent, and at the flag that now unfolds
its gaudy length like a burnished serpent, as if the smell of some far-off darling heather-bed
had touched thy finest instinct, away thou fliest straight southward to that rich flower-store,
unerringly as the carrier-pigeon wafting to distant lands some love-message on its wings. Yet
humble after all thou art; for all day long, making thy industry thy delight, thou returnest
at shut of day, cheerful even in thy weariness, to thy ground-cell within the knoll, where
as Fancy dreams the Fairies dwell--a Silent People in the Land of Peace.

And why hast thou, wild singing spirit of the Highland Glenorchy, that cheerest the long-withdrawing
vale from Inveruren to Dalmally, and from Dalmally Church-tower to the Old Castle of Kilchurn,
round whose mouldering turrets thou sweepest with more pensive murmur, till thy name and existence
are lost in that noble loch--why hast thou never had thy Bard? "A hundred bards have I had
in bygone ages," is thy reply; "but the Sassenach understands not the traditionary strains,
and the music of the Gaelic poetry is wasted on his ear." Songs of war and of love are yet
awakened by the shepherds among these lonely braes; and often when the moon rises over Ben-Cruachan,
and counts her attendant stars in soft reflection beneath the still waters of that long inland
sea, she hears the echoes of harps chiming through the silence of departed years. Tradition
tells, that on no other banks did the fairies so love to thread the mazes of their mystic dance,
as on the heathy, and brackeny, and oaken banks of the Orchy, during the long summer nights
when the thick-falling dews perceptibly swelled the stream, and lent a livelier music to every
waterfall.

There it was, on a little river-island, that once, whether sleeping or waking we know not,
we saw celebrated a Fairy's Funeral. First we heard small pipes playing, as if no bigger than
hollow rushes that whisper to the night winds; and more piteous than aught that trills from
earthly instrument was the scarce audible dirge! It seemed to float over the stream, every
foam-bell emitting a plaintive note, till the airy anthem came floating over our couch, and
then alighted without footsteps among the heather. The pattering of little feet was then heard,
as if living creatures were arranging themselves in order, and then there was nothing but a
more ordered hymn. The harmony was like the melting of musical dewdrops, and sang, without
words, of sorrow and death. We opened our eyes, or rather sight came to them when closed, and
dream was vision! Hundreds of creatures, no taller than the crest of the lapwing, and all hanging
down their veiled heads, stood in a circle on a green plat among the rocks; and in the midst
was a bier, framed as it seemed of flowers unknown to the Highland hills; and on the bier,
a Fairy, lying with uncovered face, pale as the lily, and motionless as the snow. The dirge
grew fainter and fainter, and then died quite away; when two of the creatures came from the
circle, and took their station, one at the head and the other at the foot of the bier. They
sang alternate measures, not louder than the twittering of the awakened wood-lark before it
goes up the dewy air, but dolorous and full of the desolation of death. The flower-bier stirred;
for the spot on which it lay sank slowly down, and in a few moments the greensward was smooth
as ever--the very dews glittering above the buried Fairy. A cloud passed over the moon; and,
with a choral lament, the funeral troop sailed duskily away, heard afar off, so still was the
midnight solitude of the glen. Then the disenthralled Orohy began to rejoice as before, through
all her streams and falls; and at the sudden leaping of the waters and outbursting of the moon,
we awoke.

Age is the season of Imagination, youth of Passion; and having been long young, shall we repine
that we are now old? They alone are rich who are full of years--the Lords of Time's Treasury
are all on the staff of Wisdom; their commissions are enclosed in furrows on their foreheads,
and secured to them for life. Fearless of fate, and far above fortune, they hold their heritage
by the great charter of nature for behoof of all her children who have not, like impatient
heirs, to wait for their decease; for every hour dispenses their wealth, and their bounty is
not a late bequest, but a perpetual benefaction. Death but sanctifies their gifts to gratitude;
and their worth is more clearly seen and profoundly felt within the solemn gloom of the grave.

And said we truly that Age is the season of Imagination? That Youth is the season of Passion
your own beating and bounding hearts now tell you--your own boiling blood. Intensity is its
characteristic; and it burns like a flame of fire, too often but to consume. Expansion of the
soul is ours, with all its feelings and all its "thoughts, that wander through eternity;" nor
needeth then the spirit to have wings, for power is given her, beyond the dove's or the eagle's,
and no weariness can touch her on that heavenward flight.

Yet we are all of "the earth earthy," and, young and old alike, must we love and honour our
home. Your eyes are bright--ours are dim; but "it is the soul that sees," and "this diurnal
sphere" is visible through the mist of tears. In that light how more than beautiful--how holy--appears
even this world! All sadness, save of sin, is then most sacred; and sin itself loses its terrors
in repentance, which, alas! is seldom perfect but in the near prospect of dissolution. For
temptation may intercept her within a few feet of her expected rest, nay, dash the dust from
her hand that she has gathered from the burial-place to strew on her head; but Youth sees flowery
fields and shining rivers far-stretching before her path, and cannot imagine for a moment that
among life's golden mountains there is many a Place of Tombs!

But let us speak only of this earth--this world--this life--and is not Age the season of Imagination?
Imagination is Memory imbued by joy or sorrow with creative power over the past, till it becomes
the present, and then, on that vision "far off the coming shines" of the future, till all the
spiritual realm overflows with light. Therefore was it that, in illumined Greece, Memory was
called the Mother of the Muses; and how divinely indeed they sang around her as she lay in
the pensive shade!

You know the words of Milton--

    "Till old experience doth attain
    To something like prophetic strain;"

and you know, while reading them, that Experience is consummate Memory, Imagination wide as
the world, another name for Wisdom, all one with Genius, and in its "prophetic strain"--Inspiration.

We would fain lower our tone--and on this theme speak like what we are, one of the humblest
children of Mother Earth. We cannot leap now twenty-three feet on level ground (our utmost
might be twenty-three inches), nevertheless we could "put a girdle round the globe in forty
minutes,"--ay, in half an hour, were we not unwilling to dispirit Ariel. What are feats done
in the flesh and by the muscle? At first, worms though we be, we cannot even crawl;--disdainful
next of that acquirement, we creep, and are distanced by the earwig;--pretty lambs, we then
totter to the terror of our deep-bosomed dames--till the welkin rings with admiration to behold,
sans leading-strings, the weanlings walk;--like wildfire then we run, for we have found the
use of our feet;--like wild-geese then we fly, for we may not doubt we have wings;--in car,
ship, balloon, the lords of earth, sea, and sky, and universal nature. The car runs on a post--the
ship on a rock--the "air hath bubbles as the water hath"--the balloon is one of them, and bursts
like a bladder--and we become the prey of sharks, surgeons, or sextons. Where, pray, in all
this is there a single symptom or particle of Imagination? It is of Passion "all compact."

True, this is not a finished picture--'tis but a slight sketch of the season of Youth; but
paint it as you will, and if faithful to nature you will find Passion in plenty, and a dearth
of Imagination. Nor is the season of Youth therefore to be pitied--for Passion respires and
expires in bliss ineffable, and so far from being eloquent as the unwise lecture, it is mute
as a fish, and merely gasps. In Youth we are the creatures, the slaves of the senses. But the
bondage is borne exultingly in spite of its severity; for ere long we come to discern through
the dust of our own raising, the pinnacles of towers and temples serenely ascending into the
skies, high and holy places for rule, for rest, or for religion, where as kings we may reign,
as priests minister, as saints adore.

We do not deny, excellent youth, that to your eyes and ears beautiful and sublime are the sights
and sounds of Nature--and of Art her Angel. Enjoy thy pupilage, as we enjoyed ours, and deliver
thyself up withouten dread, or with a holy dread, to the gloom of woods, where night for ever
dwells--to the glory of skies, where morn seems enthroned for ever. Coming and going a thousand
and a thousand times, yet, in its familiar beauty, ever new as a dream--let thy soul span the
heavens with the rainbow. Ask thy heart in the wilderness if that "thunder, heard remote,"
be from cloud or cataract; and ere it can reply, it may shudder at the shuddering moor, and
your flesh creep upon your bones, as the heather seems to creep on the bent, with the awe of
a passing earthquake. Let the sea-mew be thy guide up the glen, if thy delight be in peace
profounder than ever sat with her on the lull of summer waves! For the inland loch seems but
a vale overflowing with wondrous light--and realities they all look, these trees and pastures,
and rocks and hills, and clouds--not softened images, as they are, of realities that are almost
stern even in their beauty, and in their sublimity over-awing; look at yon precipice that dwindles
into pebbles the granite blocks that choke up the shore!

Now all this, and a million times more than all this, have we too done in our Youth, and yet
'tis all nothing to what we do whenever we will it in our Age. For almost all that is passion;
spiritual passion indeed--and as all emotions are akin, they all work with, and into one another's
hands, and, however remotely related, recognise and welcome one another, like Highland cousins,
whenever they meet. Imagination is not the Faculty to stand aloof from the rest, but gives
the one hand to Fancy and the other to Feeling, and sets to Passion, who is often so swallowed
up in himself as to seem blind to their vis-à-vis, till all at once he hugs all the Three,
as if he were demented, and as suddenly sporting dos-à-dos--is off on a gallopade by himself
right slick away over the mountain-tops.

