Definite positional relationship of subdivisions.--In the metal scrap example, above, division
has been effected on the one basis of form or contour. If it had been desired to separate also
on material, for example, if it were deemed important to locate all brass scrap, each of the
groups based upon form could be divided into one of brass and one not brass, or the entire
heap could be divided into brass and not brass, and under the heading "brass" could be indented
the various articles made of brass, and under "not brass" the various articles not made of
brass, and this would double the number of divisions. If also it were desired to separate the
lead articles in the same manner the number of classes would be tripled. But, as in the book
illustration, it may be impracticable thus to multiply subdivisions, and the basis "form" having
been selected as of first-rank importance, all divisions based upon form should be completed
and kept together. Then, "material," having been selected as of second-rank importance, should
be carried out with respect to all objects in which form is non-essential. If enough brass
balls were found to render it advisable to make a subdivision of them, they should be assembled
into a subclass indented under "balls" and not into a subclass indented under "brass." Having
selected one basis as primary, it should never subsequently be made secondary or vice versa.
Some such restriction on modes of division appears salutary in a system of divisions designed
to definitely limit search. The arrangement herein sought to be explained is susceptible of
use to limit all searches for a single definitely stated invention to a subclass properly entitled
to receive it or those indented under it, and to those subclasses above, which may include
it as a part of an organization or specialized means.

As between coordinate groups divided on the same basis, there is no question of superiority
and inferiority. The terms "superior" and "inferior" are useful in questions of relationship
between combinations and subcombinations or elements thereof, and between groups founded on
effect or product and those founded on simple function. The mere difference in complexity of
mutually exclusive coordinate groups involves no relationship of superiority or inferiority.
A subclass to receive a screw-cutting lathe is superior to a subclass to receive a lathe-headstock,
a locomotive class is superior to a class to receive steam-engines, for the reason that the
lathe is a whole of which the headstock is a part, and the locomotive is an organization of
which the engine is an element. But the headstock subclass is not superior necessarily to the
tailstock subclass simply because the headstock is commonly more complex than the tailstock.
Yet arbitrary preference for classification in the headstock subclass may be established by
position where an application or a patent contains claims for both.

Thus in a class that is founded on a well-chosen basis that brings together things bearing
close resemblances to each other, all types that contain the elements essential to produce
a complete practically operative means will be found in subclasses that have a position somewhere
between the beginning and end of the list of subclasses of the class. Those that add features
of elaboration of the essential types and those that are highly specialized to some particular
purpose within the definition of the class will stand above the essential type subclasses,
while those subclasses for parts and details will stand below those for the essential types.

Indented schedules.--In an indented schedule all subclasses in the first column reading from
the left are species to the genus represented by the class title.[9] All subclasses indented
under another subclass are species to the genus represented by the subclass under which they
are indented. If a title has no number, it represents merely a subject-matter to be divided,
a genus,--having no representatives except in the species under it. If a subclass having a
generic title has a number, it not only represents a subject-matter to be divided into species
but also all other species not falling within the titles indented. Although these relative
positions might imply that only proximate species are indented one place, yet mechanical difficulties
render it impracticable to so arrange that all species shall be indented under their proximate
genera.

Indention properly carried out has a tendency to prevent in the process of logical division
the logical fault of proceeding from a high or broad genus to a low or narrow species. This
latter fault may inadvertently separate things that belong together. If, for example, it were
desired to divide balls in the stated illustration according to material, an immediate division
of balls into aluminum, zinc, glass, ivory, rubber, would be less useful than to divide into
mineral materials and nonmineral materials as follows:

 Balls--
   Mineral--
     Nonmetallic--
       Glass.
     Metallic--
       Aluminum.
       Zinc.
   Nonmineral--
     Vegetable--
       Rubber.
     Animal--
       Ivory.

However, it is evident that indention carried to its full extant, useful as it is in keeping
analogous things together, would make the printing of schedules complex and unwieldy. Nevertheless,
in the generalizing process necessary in logical division and arrangement, the divisions of
species should always be mentally indented, as it were, under their proximate genera. Thus,
under a genus unnamed may be arranged several species in juxtaposition, without actually printing
the name of the genus, so that the schedule above may read:

 Balls--
   Glass.
   Aluminum
   Zinc.
   Rubber.
   Ivory.

In an arrangement printed in idea-order, though relegating the genera mineral, nonmetallic,
metallic, nonmineral, vegetable, animal, to the mind unaided by printed words, the different
species of the same genus may be kept together except that species for which no title has been
provided must go back to the subclass under which the named species are indented. Thus the
arrangement above necessitates placing in subdivision "Balls" all copper balls, whereas indention
under proximate genus "metal" would have brought all metal balls together. In a finely divided
classification, printing of titles for all genera is not practicable; hence great care ought
to be directed toward grouping species according to the principles of arrangement herein outlined,
noting that whenever a change of basis is made, a new genus is implied, and that subclasses
for all other species of the same genus under whatever name, must be brought into juxtaposition
as if indented under the implied genus.[10]

Bifurcate division.--Most discussions of classification make reference to the so-called bifurcate
scheme of division as the only one by which exhaustive division can be surely achieved. This
is commonly illustrated by the ancient tree of Porphyry. By this method any subject it is desired
to subdivide is first divided by writing the name of one selected species at one branch and
writing at the other branch the name of the same species prefixed by "Not." Thus the Agassiz
classification of living beings divides them first into sensible and not sensible (plants).
A botanical classification divides plants into flowering and not flowering. A zoological classification
divides animals into vertebrate and not vertebrate. By continuing the process of division in
the same manner, the division is obviously exhaustive of the subject, there being always a
negative subdivision to receive any subsequently created or discovered species. Although bifurcate
division has been ridiculed by some, it is agreed by highest authority that it is the only
plan of division by which one can be sure to have a consistent place for everything, or by
which one can be certain that the divisions are mutually exclusive. It can be demonstrated
that a classification schedule in which the relation of genera and species is shown by indentions,
if correctly formed on the principles now sought to be applied in the revision of the Patent
Office classification, is susceptible of conversion into a tree of Porphyry, while unlike the
latter it is compact and wieldy.

Utility of arrangement according to resemblances.--The expedient of indicating kinds of relationship
between several equally indented divisions by relative position has the following utility:

(1) A uniform rule is provided, applicable to all classes, for placing inventions that bear
the relation of whole to part in subdivisions before those that bear the relation of a part
to that whole, and those that are defined by a particular effect, product, material, or use
before those that are defined by a function or an operation applicable generally to various
effects, products, materials, or uses; whereby that portion of the schedule in which any invention
belonging to any particular class should be found may be approached whether or not the investigator
knows the name of the object sought for or the title of the appropriate subdivision.

(2) The substantial impossibility of dividing many branches of the useful arts exhaustively
into a reasonable number of mutually exclusive or non-overlapping subclasses is compensated
for; so that when the classifier or the searcher has an invention to place or to find including
two or more different kinds of characteristics, for each of which a subdivision is provided,
but no subdivision for the plural characteristics, it will be known that the invention should
be in the subclass for that characteristic which stands before the subclass for the other characteristic.

(3) It compensates for omission of some generic titles that if written in the indented schedule
would lengthen specific titles to a cumbersome extent.

(4) It provides a rule for cross-referencing where several inventions are claimed bearing to
each other any of the relationships indicated above, cross-referencing being necessary in one
direction only where the matter illustrated is coextensive with the matter claimed.

(5) It definitely limits the field of search for any unitary invention in any class so arranged,
as no patented invention having the limitations imposed by a unitary claim should be found
in any subclass below the subclass properly defined to receive it or those indented under it.
Parts of such inventions may be found below or following this subclass in the same class if
these parts are within the class definition, or elsewhere in the useful arts if not within
that definition. The unitary invention may be found in the subclass limited to it and certain
subclasses arranged above or before it adapted to receive organizations of which it may be a part.

A complete system of arrangement should comprise (1) a display of the entire field of the useful
arts in a manner to show the relation of the larger as well as of the smaller groups,--carrying
the appropriate relationship as far as possible from the highest genera to the lowest species,
the arrangement being such as would bring materials most nearly alike into closest propinquity
regardless of the names they may be called by. (2) Supplementary to this classification arrangement
by ideas there should be an alphabetical index of subclass titles, appropriately cross indexed,
and additional titles of various technical and trade names of things classified under subclass
titles.

DEFINITION.

