'I fairly dreamt of that Elysium of his last night,' said Charles: 'a swamp half frozen on
a winter's night, full of wild ducks. Here, Charlotte, come and tell Mary the roll of Guy's pets.'

Charlotte began. 'There was the sea-gull, and the hedgehog, and the fox, and the badger, and
the jay, and the monkey, that he bought because it was dying, and cured it, only it died the
next winter, and a toad, and a raven, and a squirrel, and--'

'That will do, Charlotte.'

'Oh! but Mary has not heard the names of all his dogs. And Mary, he has cured Bustle of hunting
my Puss. We held them up to each other, and Puss hissed horribly, but Bustle did not mind it
a bit; and the other day, when Charles tried to set him at her, he would not take the least
notice.'

'Now, Charlotte,' said Charles, waving his hand, with a provoking mock politeness, 'have the
goodness to return to your friends.

Tea over, Laura proposed the game of definitions. 'You know it. Philip,' said she, 'you taught us.'

'Yes I learnt it of your sisters, Thorndale,' said Philip.

'O pray let us have it. It must be charming!' exclaimed Miss Harper, on this recommendation.

'Definitions!' said Charles, contemptuously. 'Dr. Johnson must be the hand for them.'

'They are just the definitions not to be found in Johnson,' said Mr. Thorndale. 'Our standing
specimen is adversity, which may be differently explained according to your taste, as "a toad
with a precious jewel in its head," or "the test of friendship."'

'The spirit of words,' said Guy, looking eager and interested.

'Well, we'll try,' said Charles, 'though I can't say it sounds to me promising. Come, Maurice,
define an Irishman.'

'No, no, don't let us be personal,' said Laura; 'I had thought of the word "happiness". We
are each to write a definition on a slip of paper, then compare them.'

The game was carried on with great spirit for more than an hour. It was hard to say, which
made most fun, Maurice, Charles, or Guy; the last no longer a spectator, but an active contributor
to the sport. When the break-up came, Mary and Amabel were standing over the table together,
collecting the scattered papers, and observing that it had been very good fun. 'Some so characteristic,'
said Amy, 'such as Maurice's definition of happiness,--a row at Dublin.'

'Some were very deep, though,' said Mary; 'if it is not treason, I should like to make out
whose that other was of happiness.'

'You mean this,' said Amy: '"Gleams from a brighter world, too soon eclipsed or forfeited."
I thought it was Philip's, but it is Sir Guy's writing. How very sad! I should not like to
think so. And he was so merry all the time! This is his, too, I see; this one about riches
being the freight for which the traveller is responsible.'

'There is a great deal of character in them,' said Mary. 'I should not have wondered at any
of us, penniless people, philosophizing in the fox and grapes style, but, for him, and at his
age--'

'He has been brought up so as to make the theory of wisdom come early,' said Philip, who was
nearer than she thought.

'Is that intended for disparagement?' she asked quickly.

I think very highly of him; he has a great deal of sense and right feeling,' was Philip's sedate
answer; and he turned away to say some last words to Mr. Thorndale.

The Rosses were the last to depart, Mary in cloak and clogs, while Mr. Edmonstone lamented
that it was in vain to offer the carriage; and Mary laughed, and thanked, and said the walk
home with Papa was the greatest of treats in the frost and star-light.

'Don't I pity you, who always go out to dinner in a carriage!' were her last words to Laura.

'Well, Guy,' said Charlotte, 'how do you like it?'

'Very much, indeed. It was very pleasant.'

'You are getting into the fairy ring,' said Laura, smiling.

'Ay' he said, smiling too; 'but it does not turn to tinsel. Would it if I saw more of it?'
and he looked at Mrs. Edmonstone.

'It would be no compliment to ourselves to say so,' she answered.

'I suppose tinsel or gold depends on the using,' said he, thoughtfully; 'there are some lumps
of solid gold among those papers, I am sure, one, in particular, about a trifle. May I see
that again? I mean--

                  'Little things
                   On little wings
                 Bear little souls to heaven.'

'Oh! that was only a quotation,' said Amy, turning over the definitions again with him, and
laughing at some of the most amusing; while, in the mean time, Philip went to help Laura, who
was putting some books away in the ante-room.

'Yes, Laura,' he said, 'he has thought, mind, and soul; he is no mere rattle.'

'No indeed. Who could help seeing his superiority over Maurice?'

'If only he does not pervert his gifts, and if it is not all talk. I don't like such excess
of openness about his feelings; it is too like talking for talking's sake.'

'Mamma says it in the transparency of youthfulness. You know he has never been at school; so
his thoughts come out in security of sympathy, without fear of being laughed at. But it is
very late. Good night.'

The frost turned to rain the next morning, and the torrents streamed against the window, seeming
to have a kind of attraction for Philip and Guy, who stood watching them.

Guy wondered if the floods would be out at Redclyffe and his cousins were interested by his
description of the sudden, angry rush of the mountain streams, eddying fiercely along, bearing
with them tree and rock, while the valleys became lakes, and the little mounds islets; and
the trees looked strangely out of proportion when only their branches were visible. 'Oh! a
great flood is famous fun,' said he.

'Surely,' said Philip, 'I have heard a legend of your being nearly drowned in some flood.

'Yes,' said Guy, 'I had a tolerable ducking.'

'Oh, tell us about it!' said Amy.

'Ay! I have a curiosity to hear a personal experience of drowning,' said Charles. 'Come, begin
at the beginning.'

'I was standing watching the tremendous force of the stream, when I saw an unhappy old ram
floating along, bleating so piteously, and making such absurd, helpless struggles, that I could
not help pulling off my coat and jumping in after him. It was very foolish, for the stream
was too strong--I was two years younger then. Moreover, the beast was very heavy, and not at
all grateful for any kind intentions, and I found myself sailing off to the sea, with the prospect
of a good many rocks before long; but just then an old tree stretched out its friendly arms
through the water; it stopped the sheep, and I caught hold of the branches, and managed to
scramble up, while my friend got entangled in them with his wool'--

                  'Omne quum Proteus pecus egit altos
                                      Visere montes,'

quoted Philip.

                  'Ovium et summa, genus haesit ulmo,'

added Guy.

'Ovium,' exclaimed Philip, with a face of horror. 'Don't you know that O in Ovis is short?
Do anything but take liberties with Horace!'

'Get out of the tree first, Guy,' said Charles, 'for at present your history seems likely to
end with a long ohone!'

'Well, Triton--not Proteus--came to the rescue at last,' said Guy, laughing; 'I could not stir,
and the tree bent so frightfully with the current that I expected every minute we should all
go together; so I had nothing for it but to halloo as loud as I could. No one heard but Triton,
the old Newfoundland dog, who presently came swimming up, so eager to help, poor fellow, that
I thought he would have throttled me, or hurt himself in the branches. I took off my handkerchief
and threw it to him, telling him to take it to Arnaud, who I knew would understand it as a
signal of distress.'

'Did he? How long had you to wait?'

'I don't know--it seemed long enough before a most welcome boat appeared, with some men in
it, and Triton in an agony. They would never have found me but for him, for my voice was gone;
indeed the next thing I remember was lying on the grass in the park, and Markham saying, 'Well,
sir, if you do wish to throw away your life, let it be for something better worth saving than
Farmer Holt's vicious old ram!'

'In the language of the great Mr. Toots,' said Charles 'I am afraid you got very wet.'

'Were you the worse for it?' said Amy.

'Not in the least. I was so glad to hear it was Holt's! for you must know that I had behaved
very ill to Farmer Holt. I had been very angry at his beating our old hound, for, as he thought,
worrying his sheep; not that Dart ever did, though.

'And was the ram saved?'

'Yes, and next time I saw it, it nearly knocked me down.'

'Would you do it again?' said Philip.

'I don't know.'

'I hope you had a medal from the Humane Society,' said Charles.

'That would have been more proper for Triton.'

'Yours should have been an ovation,' said Charles, cutting the o absurdly short, and looking
at Philip.

Laura saw that the spirit of teasing was strong in Charles this morning and suspected that
he wanted to stir up what he called the deadly feud, and she hastened to change the conversation
by saying, 'You quite impressed Guy with your translation of Fra Cristoforo.'

'Indeed I must thank you for recommending the book,' said Guy; 'how beautiful it is!'

'I am glad you entered into it,' said Philip; 'it has every quality that a fiction ought to have.'

'I never read anything equal to the repentance of the nameless man.'

'Is he your favourite character?' said Philip, looking at him attentively.

'Oh no--of course not--though he is so grand that one thinks most about him, but no one can
be cared about as much as Lucia.'

'Lucia! She never struck me as more than a well-painted peasant girl,' said Philip.

'Oh!' cried Guy, indignantly; then, controlling himself, he continued: 'She pretends to no
more than she is, but she shows the beauty of goodness in itself in a--a--wonderful way. And
think of the power of those words of hers over that gloomy, desperate man.'

'Your sympathy with the Innominato again,' said Philip. Every subject seemed to excite Guy
to a dangerous extent, as Laura thought, and she turned to Philip to ask if he would not read
to them again.

'I brought this book on purpose,' said Philip. 'I wished to read you a description of that
print from Raffaelle--you know it--the Madonna di San Sisto?'

'The one you brought to show us?' said Amy, 'with the two little angels?'

'Yes, here is the description,' and he began to read--

'Dwell on the form of the Child, more than human in grandeur, seated on the arms of the Blessed
Virgin as on an august throne. Note the tokens of divine grace, His ardent eyes, what a spirit,
what a countenance is His; yet His very resemblance to His mother denotes sufficiently that
He is of us and takes care for us. Beneath are two figures adoring, each in their own manner.
On one side is a pontiff, on the other a virgin each a most sweet and solemn example, the one
of aged, the other of maidenly piety and reverence. Between, are two winged boys, evidently
presenting a wonderful pattern of childlike piety. Their eyes, indeed, are not turned towards
the Virgin, but both in face and gesture, they show how careless of themselves they are in
the presence of God.'

All were struck by the description. Guy did not speak at first, but the solemn expression of
his face showed how he felt its power and reverence. Philip asked if they would like to hear
more, and Charles assented: Amy worked, Laura went on with her perspective, and Guy sat by
her side, making concentric circles with her compasses, or when she wanted them he tormented
her parallel ruler, or cut the pencils, never letting his fingers rest except at some high
or deep passage, or when some interesting discussion arose. All were surprised when luncheon
time arrived; Charles held out his hand for the book; it was given with a slight smile, and
he exclaimed' Latin! I thought you were translating. Is it your own property?'

'Yes.'

'Is it very tough? I would read it, if any one would read it with me.'

'Do you mean me?' said Guy; 'I should like it very much, but you have seen how little Latin
I know.'

'That is the very thing,' said Charles; 'that Ovis of yours was music; I would have made you
a Knight of the Golden Fleece on the spot. Tutors I could get by shoals, but a fellow-dunce
is inestimable.'

'It is a bargain, then,' said Guy; 'if Philip has done with the book and will lend it to us.'

The luncheon bell rang, and they all adjourned to the dining-room. Mr. Edmonstone came in when
luncheon was nearly over, rejoicing that his letters were done, but then he looked disconsolately
from the window, and pitied the weather. 'Nothing for it but billiards. People might say it
was nonsense to have a billiard-table in such a house, but for his part he found there was
no getting through a wet day without them. Philip must beat him as usual, and Guy might have
one of the young ladies to make a fourth.'

'Thank you,' said Guy, 'but I don't play.'

'Not play--eh?' Well, we will teach you in the spinning of a ball, and I'll have my little
Amy to help me against you and Philip.'

'No, thank you,' repeated Guy, colouring, 'I am under a promise.'

'Ha! Eh? What? Your grandfather? He could see no harm in such play as this. For nothing, you
understand. You did not suppose I meant anything else?'

'O no, of course not,' eagerly replied Guy; 'but it is impossible for me to play, thank you.
I have promised never even to look on at a game at billiards.'

'Ah, poor man, he had too much reason.' uttered Mr. Edmonstone to himself, but catching a warning
look from his wife, he became suddenly silent. Guy, meanwhile, sat looking lost in sad thoughts,
till, rousing himself, he exclaimed, 'Don't let me prevent you.'

Mr. Edmonstone needed but little persuasion, and carried Philip off to the billiard-table in
the front hall.

'O, I am so glad!' cried Charlotte, who had, within the last week, learnt Guy's value as a
playfellow. 'Now you will never go to those stupid billiards, but I shall have you always,
every rainy day. Come and have a real good game at ball on the stairs.'

She already had hold of his hand, and would have dragged him off at once, had he not waited
to help Charles back to his sofa; and in the mean time she tried in vain to persuade her more
constant playmate, Amabel, to join the game. Poor little Amy regretted the being obliged to
refuse, as she listened to the merry sounds and bouncing balls, sighing more than once at having
turned into a grown-up young lady; while Philip observed to Laura, who was officiating as billiard-marker,
that Guy was still a mere boy.

The fates favoured Amy at last for about half after three, the billiards were interrupted,
and Philip, pronouncing the rain to be almost over, invited Guy to take a walk, and they set
out in a very gray wet mist, while Charlotte and Amy commenced a vigorous game at battledore
and shuttle-cock.

The gray mist had faded into twilight, and twilight into something like night, when Charles
was crossing the hall, with the aid of Amy's arm, Charlotte carrying the crutch behind him,
and Mrs. Edmonstone helping Laura with her perspective apparatus, all on their way to dress
for dinner; the door opened and in came the two Morvilles. Guy, without, even stopping to take
off his great coat, ran at once up-stairs, and the next moment the door of his room was shut
with a bang that shook the house, and made them all start and look at Philip for explanation.

'Redclyffe temper,' said he, coolly, with a half-smile curling his short upper lip.

'What have you been doing to him?' said Charles.'

'Nothing. At least nothing worthy of such ire. I only entered on the subject of his Oxford
life, and advised him to prepare for it, for his education has as yet been a mere farce. He
used to go two or three days in the week to one Potts, a self-educated genius--a sort of superior
writing-master at the Moorworth commercial school. Of course, though it is no fault of his,
poor fellow, he is hardly up to the fifth form, and he must make the most of his time, if he
is not to be plucked. I set all this before him as gently as I could, for I knew with whom
I had to deal, yet you see how it is.'

'What did he say?' asked Charles.

'He said nothing; so far I give him credit; but he strode on furiously for the last half mile,
and this explosion is the finale. I am very sorry for him, poor boy; I beg no further notice
may be taken of it. Don't you want an arm, Charlie?'

'No thank you,' answered Charles, with a little surliness.

'You had better. It really is too much for Amy,' said Philip, making a move as if to take possession
of him, as he arrived at the foot of the stairs.

'Like the camellia, I suppose,' he replied; and taking his other crutch from Charlotte, he
began determinedly to ascend without assistance, resolved to keep Philip a prisoner below him
as long as he could, and enjoying the notion of chafing him by the delay. Certainly teasing
Philip was a dear delight to Charles, though it was all on trust, as, if he succeeded, his
cousin never betrayed his annoyance by look or sign.

About a quarter of an hour after, there was a knock at the dressing-room door. 'Come in,' said
Mrs. Edmonstone, looking up from her letter-writing, and Guy made his appearance, looking very
downcast.

'I am come,' he said, 'to ask pardon for the disturbance I made just now. I was so foolish
as to be irritated at Philip's manner, when he was giving me some good advice, and I am very
sorry.'

'What has happened to your lip?' she exclaimed.

He put his handkerchief to it. 'Is it bleeding still? It is a trick of mine to bite my lip
when I am vexed. It seems to help to keep down words. There! I have given myself a mark of
this hateful outbreak.'

He looked very unhappy, more so, Mrs. Edmonstone thought, than the actual offence required.
'You have only failed in part,' she said. 'It was a victory to keep down words.'

'The feeling is the thing,' said Guy; 'besides, I showed it plainly enough, without speaking.'

'It is not easy to take advice from one so little your elder,' began Mrs. Edmonstone, but he
interrupted her. 'It was not the advice. That was very good; I--' but he spoke with an effort,--'I
am obliged to him. It was--no, I won't say what,' he added, his eyes kindling, then changing
in a moment to a sorrowful, resolute tone, 'Yes, but I will, and then I shall make myself thoroughly
ashamed. It was his veiled assumption of superiority, his contempt for all I have been taught.
Just as if he had not every right to despise me, with his talent and scholarship, after such
egregious mistakes as I had made in the morning. I gave him little reason to think highly of
my attainments; but let him slight me as much as he pleases, he must not slight those who taught
me. It was not Mr. Potts' fault.'

Even the name could not spoil the spirited sound of the speech, and Mrs. Edmonstone was full
of sympathy. 'You must remember,' she said, 'that in the eyes of a man brought up at public
school, nothing compensates for the want of the regular classical education. I have no doubt
it was very provoking.'

'I don't want to be excused, thank you,' said Guy. 'Oh I am grieved; for I thought the worst
of my temper had been subdued. After all that has passed--all I felt--I thought it impossible.
Is there no hope for--' He covered his face with his hands, then recovering and turning to
Mrs. Edmonstone, he said, 'It is encroaching too much on your kindness to come here and trouble
you with my confessions.'

'No, no, indeed,' said she, earnestly. 'Remember how we agreed that you should come to me like
one of my own children. And, indeed, I do not see why you need grieve in this despairing way,
for you almost overcame the fit of anger; and perhaps you were off your guard because the trial
came in an unexpected way?'

'It did, it did,' he said, eagerly; 'I don't, mind being told point blank that I am a dunce,
but that Mr. Potts--nay, by implication--my grandfather should be set at nought in that cool--But
here I am again!' said he, checking himself in the midst of his vehemence; 'he did not mean
that, of course. I have no one to blame but myself.'

'I am sure,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, 'that if you always treat your failings in this way, you
must subdue them at last.'

'It is all failing, and resolving, and failing again!' said Guy.

'Yes, but the failures become slighter and less frequent, and the end is victory.'

'The end victory!' repeated Guy, in a musing tone, as he stood leaning against the mantelshelf.

'Yes, to all who persevere and seek for help,' said Mrs Edmonstone; and he raised his eyes
and fixed them on her with an earnest look that surprised her, for it was almost as if the
hope came home to him as something new. At that moment, however, she was called away, and directly
after a voice in the next room exclaimed, 'Are you there, Guy? I want an arm!' while he for
the first time perceived that Charles's door was ajar.

Charles thought all this a great fuss about nothing, indeed he was glad to find there was anyone
who had no patience with Philip; and in his usual mischievous manner, totally reckless of the
fearful evil of interfering with the influence for good which it was to be hoped that Philip
might exert over Guy, he spoke thus: 'I begin to think the world must be more docile than I
have been disposed to give it credit for. How a certain cousin of ours has escaped numerous
delicate hints to mind his own business is to me one of the wonders of the world.'

'No one better deserves that his advice should be followed,' said Guy, with some constraint.

'An additional reason against it,' said Charles. 'Plague on that bell! I meant to have broken
through your formalities and had a candid opinion of Don Philip before it rang.'

'Then I am glad of it; I could hardly have given you a candid opinion just at present.'

Charles was vexed; but he consoled himself by thinking that Guy did not yet feel himself out
of his leading-strings, and was still on his good behaviour. After such a flash as this there
was no fear, but there was that in him which would create mischief and disturbance enough.
Charles was well principled at the bottom, and would have shrunk with horror had it been set
before him how dangerous might be the effect of destroying the chance of a friendship between
Guy and the only person whose guidance was likely to be beneficial to him; but his idle, unoccupied
life, and habit of only thinking of things as they concerned his immediate amusement, made
him ready to do anything for the sake of opposition to Philip, and enjoy the vague idea of
excitement to be derived from anxiety about his father's ward, whom at the same time he regarded
with increased liking as he became certain that what he called the Puritan spirit was not native
to him.

At dinner-time, Guy was as silent as on his first arrival, and there would have been very little
conversation had not the other gentleman talked politics, Philip leading the discussion to
bear upon the duties and prospects of landed proprietors, and dwelling on the extent of their
opportunities for doing good. He tried to get Guy's attention, by speaking of Redclyffe, of
the large circle influenced by the head of the Morville family, and of the hopes entertained
by Lord Thorndale that this power would prove a valuable support to the rightful cause. He
spoke in vain; the young heir of Redclyffe made answers as brief, absent, and indifferent,
as if all this concerned him no more than the Emperor of Morocco, and Philip, mentally pronouncing
him sullen, turned to address himself to Laura.

As soon as the ladies had left the dining-room, Guy roused himself, and began by saying to
his guardian that he was afraid he was very deficient in classical knowledge; that he found
he must work hard before going to Oxford; and asked whether there was any tutor in the neighbourhood
to whom he could apply.

Mr. Edmonstone opened his eyes, as much amazed as if Guy had asked if there was any executioner
in the neighbourhood who could cut off his head. Philip was no less surprised, but he held
his peace, thinking it was well Guy bad sense enough to propose it voluntarily, as he would
have suggested it to his uncle as soon as there was an opportunity of doing so in private.
As soon as Mr. Edmonstone had recollected himself, and pronounced it to be exceedingly proper,
&c., they entered into a discussion on the neighbouring curates, and came at last to a resolution
that Philip should see whether Mr. Lascelles, a curate of Broadstone, and an old schoolfellow
of his own, would read with Guy a few hours in every week.

After this was settled, Guy looked relieved, though he was not himself all the evening, and
sat in his old corner between the plants and the window, where he read a grave book, instead
of talking, singing, or finishing his volume of 'Ten Thousand a Year.' Charlotte was all this
time ill at ease. She looked from Guy to Philip, from Philip to Guy; she shut her mouth as
if she was forming some great resolve, then coloured, and looked confused, rushing into the
conversation with something more mal-apropos than usual, as if on purpose to appear at her
ease. At last, just before her bed-time, when the tea was coming in, Mrs. Edmonstone engaged
with that, Laura reading, Amy clearing Charles's little table, and Philip helping Mr. Edmonstone
to unravel the confused accounts of the late cheating bailiff, Guy suddenly found her standing
by him, perusing his face with all the power of her great blue eyes. She started as he looked
up, and put her face into Amabel's great myrtle as if she would make it appear that she was
smelling to it.

'Well, Charlotte?' said he, and the sound of his voice made her speak, but in a frightened,
embarrassed whisper.

'Guy--Guy--Oh! I beg your pardon, but I wanted to--'

'Well, what?' said he, kindly.

'I wanted to make sure that you are not angry with Philip. You don't mean to keep up the feud,
do you?'

'Feud?--I hope not,' said Guy, too much in earnest to be diverted with her lecture. 'I am very
much obliged to him.'

'Are you really?' said Charlotte, her head a little on one side. 'I thought he had been scolding
you.'

Scolding was so very inappropriate to Philip's calm, argumentative way of advising, that it
became impossible not to laugh.

'Not scolding, then?' said Charlotte. 'You are too nearly grown up for that, but telling you
to learn, and being tiresome.'

'I was so foolish as to be provoked at first,' answered Guy; 'but I hope I have thought better
of it, and am going to act upon it.'

Charlotte opened her eyes wider than ever, but in the midst of her amazement Mrs. Edmonstone
called to Guy to quit his leafy screen and come to tea.

Philip was to return to Broadstone the next day, and as Mrs. Edmonstone had some errands there
that would occupy her longer than Charles liked to wait in the carriage, it was settled that
Philip should drive her there in the pony phaeton, and Guy accompany them and drive back, thus
having an opportunity of seeing Philip's print of the 'Madonna di San Sisto,' returning some
calls, and being introduced to Mr. Lascelles, whilst she was shopping. They appointed an hour
and place of meeting, and kept to it, after which Mrs. Edmonstone took Guy with her to call
on Mrs. Deane, the wife of the colonel.

It was currently believed among the young Edmonstones that Mamma and Mrs. Deane never met without
talking over Mr. Morville's good qualities, and the present visit proved no exception. Mrs.
Deane, a kind, open-hearted, elderly lady was very fond of Mr. Morville, and proud of him as
a credit to the regiment; and she told several traits of his excellent judgment, kindness of
heart, and power of leading to the right course. Mrs. Edmonstone listened, and replied with
delight; and no less pleasure and admiration were seen reflected in her young friend's radiant
face.

Mrs. Edmonstone's first question, as they set out on their homeward drive, was, whether they
had seen Mr. Lascelles?

'Yes,' said Guy, 'I am to begin to morrow, and go to him every Monday and Thursday.'

'That is prompt.'

'Ah! I have no time to lose; besides I have been leading too smooth a life with you. I want
something unpleasant to keep me in order. Something famously horrid,' repeated he, smacking
the whip with a relish, as if he would have applied that if he could have found nothing else.

'You think you live too smoothly at Hollywell,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, hardly able, with all
her respect for his good impulses, to help laughing at this strange boy.

'Yes. Happy, thoughtless, vehement; that is what your kindness makes me. Was it not a proof,
that I must needs fly out at such a petty provocation?'

'I should not have thought it such a very exciting life; certainly not such as is usually said
to lead to thoughtlessness; and we have been even quieter than usual since you came.'

'Ah, you don't know what stuff I am made of,' said Guy, gravely, though smiling; 'your own
home party is enough to do me harm; it is so exceedingly pleasant.'

'Pleasant things do not necessarily do harm.'

'Not to you; not to people who are not easily unsettled; but when I go up-stairs, after a talking,
merry evening, such as the night before last, I find that I have enjoyed it too much; I am
all abroad! I can hardly fix my thoughts, and I don't know what to do, since here I must be,
and I can't either be silent, or sit up in my own room.'

'Certainly not,' said she, smiling; 'there are duties of society which you owe even to us dangerous
people.'

'No, no: don't misunderstand me. The fault is in myself. If it was not for that, I could learn
nothing but good,' said Guy, speaking very eagerly, distressed at her answer.

'I believe I understand you,' said she, marvelling at the serious, ascetic temper, coupled
with the very high animal spirits. 'For your comfort, I believe the unsettled feeling you complain
of is chiefly the effect of novelty. You have led so very retired a life, that a lively family
party is to you what dissipation would be to other people: and, as you must meet with the world
some time or other, it is better the first encounter with should be in this comparatively innocent
form. Go on watching yourself, and it will do you no harm.'

Yes, but if I find it does me harm? It would be cowardly to run away, and resistance should
be from within. Yet, on the other hand, there is the duty of giving up, wrenching oneself from
all that has temptation in it.'

'There is nothing,' said Mrs Edmonstone, 'that has no temptation in it; but I should think
the rule was plain. If a duty such as that of living among us for the present, and making yourself
moderately agreeable, involves temptations, they must be met and battled from within. In the
same way, your position in society, with all its duties, could not be laid aside because it
is full of trial. Those who do such things are fainthearted, and fail in trust in Him who fixed
their station, and finds room for them to deny themselves in the trivial round and common task.
It is pleasure involving no duty that should be given up, if we find it liable to lead us astray.'

'I see,' answered Guy, musingly; 'and this reading comes naturally, and is just what I wanted
to keep the pleasant things from getting a full hold of me. I ought to have thought of it sooner,
instead of dawdling a whole month in idleness. Then all this would not have happened. I hope
it will be very tough.'

'You have no great love for Latin and Greek?'

'Oh!' cried Guy, eagerly, 'to be sure I delight in Homer and the Georgics, and plenty more.
What splendid things there are in these old fellows! But, I never liked the drudgery part of
the affair; and now if I am to be set to work to be accurate, and to get up all the grammar
and the Greek roots, it will be horrid enough in all conscience.'

He groaned as deeply as if he had not been congratulating himself just before on the difficulty.

'Who was your tutor?' asked Mrs. Edmonstone.

'Mr. Potts,' said Guy. 'He is a very clever man; he had a common grammar-school education,
but he struggled on--taught himself a great deal--and at last thought it great promotion to
be a teacher at the Commercial Academy, as they call it, at Moorworth, where Markham's nephews
went to school. He is very clever, I assure you, and very patient of the hard, wearing life
he must have of it there; and oh! so enjoying a new book, or an afternoon to himself. When
I was about eight or nine, I began with him, riding into Moorworth three times in a week; and
I have gone on ever since. I am sure he has done the best he could for me; and he made the
readings very pleasant by his own enjoyment. If Philip had known the difficulties that man
has struggled through, and his beautiful temper, persevering in doing his best and being contented,
I am sure he could never have spoken contemptuously of him.'

'I am sure he would not,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'all he meant was, that a person without a
university education cannot tell what the requirements are to which a man must come up in these
days.'

'Ah!' said Guy, laughing, 'how I wished Mr. Potts had been there to have enjoyed listening
to Philip and Mr. Lascelles discussing some new Lexicon, digging down for roots of words, and
quoting passages of obscure Greek poets at such a rate, that if my eyes had been shut I could
have thought them two withered old students in spectacles and snuff-coloured coats.'

'Philip was in his element.' said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.

'Really,' proceeded Guy, with animation, 'the more I hear and see of Philip, the more I wonder.
What a choice collection of books he has--so many of them school prizes, and how beautifully
bound!'

'Ah! that is one of Philip's peculiar ways. With all his prudence and his love of books, I
believe he would not buy one unless he had a reasonable prospect of being able to dress it
handsomely. Did you see the print?'

'Yes that I did. What glorious loveliness! There is nothing that does it justice but the description
in the lecture. Oh I forgot, you have not heard it. You must let me read it to you by and by.
Those two little angels, what faces they have. Perfect innocence--one full of reasoning, the
other of unreasoning adoration!'

'I see it!' suddenly exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone; 'I see what you are like in one of your looks,
not by any means, in all--it is to the larger of those two angels.'

'Very seldom, I should guess,' said Guy; and sinking his voice, as if he was communicating
a most painful fact, he added, 'My real likeness is old Sir Hugh's portrait at home. But what
were we saying? Oh! about Philip. How nice those stories were of Mrs. Deane's.'

'She is very fond of him.'

'To have won so much esteem and admiration, already from strangers, with no prejudice in his
favour.--It must be entirely his own doing; and well it may! Every time one hears of him, something
comes out to make him seem more admirable. You are laughing at me, and I own it is presumptuous
to praise; but I did not mean to praise, only to admire.'

'I like very much to hear my nephew praised; I was only smiling at your enthusiastic way.'

'I only wonder I am not more enthusiastic,' said Guy. 'I suppose it is his plain good sense
that drives away that sort of feeling, for he is as near heroism in the way of self-sacrifice
as a man can be in these days.'

'Poor Philip! if disappointment can make a hero, it has fallen to his share. Ah! Guy, you are
brightening and looking like one of my young ladies in hopes of a tale of true love crossed,
but it was only love of a sister.'

'The sister for whom he gave up so much?'

'Yes, his sister Margaret. She was eight or nine years older, very handsome, very clever, a
good deal like him--a pattern elder sister; indeed, she brought him up in great part after
his mother died, and he was devoted to her. I do believe it made the sacrifice of his prospects
quite easy to him, to know it was for her sake, that she would live on at Stylehurst, and the
change be softened to her. Then came Fanny's illness, and that lead to the marriage with Dr.
Henley. It was just what no one could object to; he is a respectable man in full practice,
with a large income; but he is much older than she is, not her equal in mind or cultivation,
and though I hardly like to say so, not at all a religious man. At any rate, Margaret Morville
was one of the last people one could bear to see marry for the sake of an establishment.'

'Could her brother do nothing?'

'He expostulated with all his might; but at nineteen he could do little with a determined sister
of twenty-seven; and the very truth and power of his remonstrance must have made it leave a
sting. Poor fellow, I believe he suffered terribly--just as he had lost Fanny, too, which he
felt very deeply, for she was a very sweet creature, and he was very fond of her. It was like
losing both sisters and home at once.'

'Has he not just been staying with Mrs. Henley?'

'Yes. There was never any coolness, as people call it. He is the one thing she loves and is
proud of. They always correspond, and he often stays with her; but he owns to disliking the
Doctor, and I don't think he has much comfort in Margaret herself, for he always comes back
more grave and stern than he went. Her house, with all her good wishes, can be no home to him;
and so we try to make Hollywell supply the place of Stylehurst as well as we can.'

'How glad he must be to have you to comfort him!'

'Philip? Oh no. He was always reserved; open to no one but Margaret, not even to his father,
and since her marriage he has shut himself up within himself more than ever. It has, at least
I think it is this that has given him a severity, an unwillingness to trust, which I believe
is often the consequence of a great disappointment either in love or in friendship.'

'Thank you for telling me,' said Guy: 'I shall understand him better, and look up to him more.
Oh! it is a cruel thing to find that what one loves is, or has not been, all one thought. What
must he not have gone through!'

Mrs. Edmonstone was well pleased to have given so much assistance to Guy's sincere desire to
become attached to his cousin, one of the most favourable signs in the character that was winning
so much upon her.

CHAPTER 5

     A cloud was o'er my childhood's dream,
           I sat in solitude;
     I know not how--I know not why,
     But round my soul all drearily
           There was a silent shroud.
                   --THOUGHTS IN PAST YEARS

Mrs. Edmonstone was anxious to hear Mr. Lascelle's opinion of his pupil, and in time she learnt
that he thought Sir Guy had very good abilities, and a fair amount of general information;
but that his classical knowledge was far from accurate, and mathematics had been greatly neglected.
He had been encouraged to think his work done when he had gathered the general meaning of a
passage, or translated it into English verse, spirited and flowing, but often further from
the original than he or his tutor could perceive. He had never been taught to work, at least
as other boys study, and great application would be requisite to bring his attainments to a
level with those of far less clever boys educated at a public school.

Mr. Lascelles told him so at first; but as there were no reflections on his grandfather, or
on Mr. Potts, Guy's lip did not suffer, and he only asked how many hours a day he ought to
read. 'Three,' said Mr. Lascelles, with a due regard to a probable want of habits of application;
but then, remembering how much was undone, he added, that 'it ought to be four or more, if
possible.'

'Four it shall be,' said Guy; 'five if I can.'

His whole strength of will was set to accomplish these four hours, taking them before and after
breakfast, working hard all the morning till the last hour before luncheon, when he came to
read the lectures on poetry with Charles. Here, for the first time, it appeared that Charles
had so entirely ceased to consider him as company, as to domineer over him like his own family.

Used as Guy had been to an active out-of-doors life, and now turned back to authors he had
read long ago, to fight his way through the construction of their language, not excusing himself
one jot of the difficulty, nor turning aside from one mountain over which his own efforts could
carry him, he found his work as tough and tedious as he could wish or fear, and by the end
of the morning was thoroughly fagged. Then would have been the refreshing time for recreation
in that pleasant idling-place, the Hollywell drawing-room. Any other time of day would have
suited Charles as well for the reading, but he liked to take the hour at noon, and never perceived
that this made all the difference to his friend of a toil or a pleasure. Now and then Guy gave
tremendous yawns; and once when Charles told him he was very stupid, proposed a different time;
but as Charles objected, he yielded as submissively as the rest of the household were accustomed
to do.

To watch Guy was one of Charles's chief amusements, and he rejoiced greatly in the prospect
of hearing his history of his first dinner-party. Mr., Mrs. and Miss Edmonstone, and Sir Guy
Morville, were invited to dine with Mr. and Mrs. Brownlow. Mr. Edmonstone was delighted as
usual with any opportunity of seeing his neighbours; Guy looked as if he did not know whether
he liked the notion or not; Laura told him it would be very absurd and stupid, but there would
be some good music, and Charles ordered her to say no more, that he might have the account,
the next morning, from a fresh and unprejudiced mind.

The next morning's question was, of course, 'How did you like your party?'

'O, it was great fun.' Guy's favourite answer was caught up in the midst, as Laura replied,
'It was just what parties always are.'

'Come, let us have the history. Who handed who in to dinner? I hope Guy had Mrs. Brownlow.'

'Oh no,' said Laura; we had both the honourables.'

'Not Philip!'

'No,' said Guy; 'the fidus Achetes was without his pious Aeneas.'

'Very good, Guy,' said Charles, enjoying the laugh.

'I could not help thinking of it,' said Guy, rather apologising, 'when I was watching Thorndale's
manner; it is such an imitation of Philip; looking droller, I think, in his absence, than in
his presence. I wonder if he is conscious of it.'

'It does not suit him at all,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; because he has no natural dignity.'

'A man ought to be six foot one, person and mind, to suit with that grand, sedate, gracious
way of Philip's,' said Guy.

'There's Guy's measure of Philip's intellect,' said Charles, 'just six foot one inch.'

'As much more than other people's twice his height,' said Guy.

'Who was your neighbour, Laura?' asked Amy.

'Dr. Mayerne; I was very glad of him, to keep off those hunting friends of Mr. Brownlow, who
never ask anything but if one has been to the races, and if one likes balls.'

'And how did Mrs. Brownlow behave?' said Charles.

'She is a wonderful woman,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, in her quiet way; and Guy with an expression
between drollery and simplicity, said, 'Then there aren't many like her.'

'I hope not,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'Is she really a lady?'

'Philip commonly calls her "that woman,"' said Charles. 'He has never got over her one night
classing him with his "young man" and myself, as three of the shyest monkeys she ever came across.'

'She won't say so of Maurice,' said Laura, as they recovered the laugh.

'I heard her deluding some young lady by saying he was the eldest son,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'Mamma!' cried Amy, 'could she have thought so?'

'I put in a gentle hint on Lord de Courcy's existence, to which she answered, in her quick
way, 'O ay, I forgot; but then he is the second, and that's the next thing.'

'If you could but have heard the stories she and Maurice were telling each other!' said Guy.
'He was playing her off, I believe; for whatever she told, he capped it with something more
wonderful. Is she really a lady?'

'By birth,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. It is only her high spirits and small judgment that make
her so absurd.'

'How loud she is, too!' said Laura. 'What was all that about horses, Guy?'

'She was saying she drove two such spirited horses, that all the grooms were afraid of them;
and when she wanted to take out her little boy, Mr. Brownlow said "You may do as you like my
dear, but I won't have my son's neck broken, whatever you do with your own." So Maurice answered
by declaring he knew a lady who drove not two, but four-in-hand, and when the leaders turned
round and looked her in the face, gave a little nod, and said, 'I'm obliged for your civility.'

'Oh! I wish I had heard that,' cried Laura.

'Did you hear her saying she smoked cigars?'

Everyone cried out with horror or laughter.

'Of course, Maurice told a story of a lady who had a cigar case hanging at her chatelaine,
and always took one to refresh her after a ball.'

Guy was interrupted by the announcement of his horse, and rode off at once to Mr. Lascelles.

On his return he went straight to the drawing-room, where Mrs. Edmonstone was reading to Charles,
and abruptly exclaimed,--

'I told you wrong. She only said she had smoked one cigar.' Then perceiving that he was interrupting,
he added, 'I beg your pardon,' and went away.

The next evening, on coming in from a solitary skating, he found the younger party in the drawing-room,
Charles entertaining the Miss Harpers with the story of the cigars. He hastily interposed--

'I told you it was but one.'

'Ay, tried one, and went on. She was preparing an order for Havannah.'

'I thought I told you I repeated the conversation incorrectly.'

'If it is not the letter, it is the spirit,' said Charles, vexed at the interference with his
sport of amazing the Miss Harpers with outrageous stories of Mrs. Brownlow.

'It is just like her,' said one of them. 'I could believe anything of Mrs. Brownlow.'

'You must not believe this,' said Guy, gently. 'I repeated incorrectly what had better have
been forgotten, and I must beg my foolish exaggeration to go no further.'

Charles became sullenly silent; Guy stood thoughtful; and Laura and Amabel could not easily
sustain the conversation till the visitors took their leave.

'Here's a pother!' grumbled Charles, as soon as they were gone.

'I beg your pardon for spoiling your story,' said Guy; but it was my fault, so I was obliged
to interfere.'

'Bosh!' said Charles. 'Who cares whether she smoked one or twenty? She is Mrs. Brownlow still.'

The point is, what was truth?' said Laura.

'Straining at gnats,' said Charles.

'Little wings?' said Guy, glancing at Amabel.

'Have it your won way,' said Charles, throwing his head back; 'they must be little souls, indeed
that stick at such trash.'

Guy's brows were contracted with vexation, but Laura looked up very prettily, saying--

'Never mind him. We must all honour you for doing such an unpleasant thing.'

'You will recommend him favourably to Philip,' growled Charles.

There was no reply, and presently Guy asked whether he would go up to dress? Having no other
way of showing his displeasure, he refused, and remained nursing his ill-humour, till he forgot
how slight the offence had been, and worked himself into a sort of insane desire--half mischievous,
half revengeful--to be as provoking as he could in his turn.

Seldom had he been more contrary, as his old nurse was wont to call it. No one could please
him, and Guy was not allowed to do anything for him. Whatever he said was intended to rub on
some sore place in Guy's mind. His mother and Laura's signs made him worse, for he had the
pleasure of teasing them, also; but Guy endured it all with perfect temper, and he grew more
cross at his failure; yet, from force of habit, at bed-time, he found himself on the stairs
with Guy's arm supporting him.

'Good night,' said Charles; 'I tried hard to poke up the lion to-night, but I see it won't do.'

This plea of trying experiments was neither absolutely true nor false; but it restored Charles
to himself, by saving a confession that he had been out of temper, and enabling him to treat
with him wonted indifference the expostulations of father, mother, and Laura.

Now that the idea of 'poking up the lion' had once occurred, it became his great occupation
to attempt it. He wanted to see some evidence of the fiery temper, and it was a new sport to
try to rouse it; one, too, which had the greater relish, as it kept the rest of the family
on thorns.

He would argue against his real opinion, talk against his better sense, take the wrong side,
and say much that was very far from his true sentiments. Guy could not understand at first,
and was quite confounded at some of the views he espoused, till Laura came to his help, greatly
irritating her brother by hints that he was not in earnest. Next time she could speak to Guy
alone, she told him he must not take all Charles said literally.

'I thought he could hardly mean it: but why should he talk so?'

'I can't excuse him; I know it is very wrong, and at the expense of truth, and it is very disagreeable
of him--I wish he would not; but he always does what he likes, and it is one of his amusements,
so we must bear with him, poor fellow.'

From that time Guy seemed to have no trouble in reining in his temper in arguing with Charles,
except once, when the lion was fairly roused by something that sounded like a sneer about King
Charles I.

His whole face changed, his hazel eye gleamed with light like an eagle's, and he started up,
exclaiming--

'You did not mean that?'

'Ask Strafford,' answered Charles, coolly, startled, but satisfied to have found the vulnerable
point.

'Ungenerous, unmanly,' said Guy, his voice low, but quivering with indignation; 'ungenerous
to reproach him with what he so bitterly repented. Could not his penitence, could not his own
blood'--but as he spoke, the gleam of wrath faded, the flush deepened on the cheek, and he
left the room.

'Ha!' soliloquized Charles, 'I've done it! I could fancy his wrath something terrific when
it was once well up. I didn't know what was coming next; but I believe he has got himself pretty
well in hand. It is playing with edge tools; and now I have been favoured with one flash of
the Morville eye, I'll let him alone; but it ryled me to be treated as something beneath his
anger, like a woman or a child.'

In about ten minutes, Guy came back: 'I am sorry that I was hasty just now,' said he.

'I did not know you had such personal feelings about King Charles.'

'If you would do me a kindness,' proceeded Guy, 'you would just say you did not mean it. I
know you do not, but if you would only say so.'

'I am glad you have the wit to see I have too much taste to be a roundhead.'

'Thank you,' said Guy; 'I hope I shall know your jest from your earnest another time. Only
if you would oblige me, you would never jest again about King Charles.'

His brow darkened into a stern, grave expression, so entirely in earnest, that Charles, though
making no answer, could not do otherwise than feel compliance unavoidable. Charles had never
been so entirely conquered, yet, strange to say, he was not, as usual, rendered sullen.

At night, when Guy had taken him to his room, he paused and said--'You are sure that you have
forgiven me?'

'What! You have not forgotten that yet?' said Charles.

'Of course not.'

'I am sorry you bear so much malice,' said Charles, smiling.

'What are you imagining?' cried Guy. 'It was my own part I was remembering, as I must, you know.'

Charles did not choose to betray that he did not see the necessity.

'I thought King Charles's wrongs were rankling. I only spoke as taking liberties with a friend.'

'Yes,' said Guy, thoughtfully, 'it may be foolish, but I do not feel as if one could do so
with King Charles. He is too near home; he suffered to much from scoffs and railings; his heart
was too tender, his repentance too deep for his friends to add one word even in jest to the
heap of reproach. 'I should like to see you and Deloraine charging at the head of Prince Rupert's
troopers.'

'I beg your pardon,' said Guy, suddenly recalled, and colouring deeply; 'I believe I forgot
where I was, and have treated you to one of my old dreams in my boatings at home. You may quiz
me as much as you please tomorrow. Good night.'

'It was a rhapsody!' thought Charles; 'yes it was. I wonder I don't laugh at it; but I was
naturally carried along. Fancy that! He did it so naturally; in fact, it was all from the bottom
of his heart, and I could not quiz him--no, no more than Montrose himself. He is a strange
article! But he keeps one awake, which is more than most people do!'

Guy was indeed likely to keep every one awake just then; for Mr. Edmonstone was going to take
him out hunting for the first time, and he was half wild about it. The day came, and half an
hour before Mr. Edmonstone was ready, Guy was walking about the hall, checking many an incipient
whistle, and telling every one that he was beforehand with the world, for he had read one extra
hour yesterday, and had got through the others before breakfast. Laura thought it very true
that, as Philip said, he was only a boy, and moralized to Charlotte on his being the same age
as herself--very nearly eighteen. Mrs. Edmonstone told Charles it was a treat to see any one
so happy, and when he began to chafe at the delay, did her best to beguile the time, but without
much success. Guy had ever learned to wait patiently, and had a custom of marching up and down,
and listening with his head thrown back, or, as Charles used to call it, 'prancing in the hall.'

If Mrs. Edmonstone's patience was tried by the preparation for the hunt in the morning, it
was no less her lot to hear of it in the evening. Guy came home in the highest spirits, pouring
out his delight to every one, with animation and power of description giving all he said a
charm. The pleasure did not lose by repetition; he was more engrossed by it every time; and
no one could be more pleased with his ardour than Mr. Edmonstone, who, proud of him and his
riding, gave a sigh to past hopes of poor Charles, and promoted the hunting with far more glee
that he had promoted the reading.

The Redclyffe groom, William, whose surname of Robinson was entirely forgotten in the appellation
of William of Deloraine, was as proud of Sir Guy as Mr. Edmonstone could be; but made representations
to his master that he must not hunt Deloraine two days in the week, and ride him to Broadstone
two more. Guy then walked to Broadstone; but William was no better pleased, for he thought
the credit of Redclyffe compromised, and punished him by reporting Deloraine not fit to be
used next hunting day. Mr. Edmonstone perceived that Guy ought to have another hunter; Philip
heard of one for sale, and after due inspection all admired--even William, who had begun by
remarking that there might be so many screw-looses about a horse, that a man did not know what
to be at with them.

Philip, who was conducting the negotiation, came to dine at Hollywell to settle the particulars.
Guy was in a most eager state; and they and Mr. Edmonstone talked so long about horses, that
they sent Charles to sleep; his mother began to read, and the two elder girls fell into a low,
mysterious confabulation of their own till they were startled by a question from Philip as
to what could engross them so deeply.

'It was,' said Laura, 'a banshee story in Eveleen de Courcy's last letter.'

'I never like telling ghost stories to people who don't believe in them,' half whispered Amabel
to her sister.

'Do you believe them?' asked Philip, looking full at her.

'Now I won't have little Amy asked the sort of question she most dislikes,' interposed Laura;
'I had rather ask if you laugh at us for thinking many ghost stories inexplicable?'

'Certainly not.'

'The universal belief could hardly be kept up without some grounds,' said Guy.

'That would apply as well to fairies,' said Philip.

'Every one has an unexplained ghost story,' said Amy.

'Yes,' said Philip; 'but I would give something to meet any one whose ghost story did not rest
on the testimony of a friend's cousin's cousin, a very strong-minded person.'

'I can't imagine how a person who has seen a ghost could ever speak of it,' said Amy.

'Did you not tell us a story of pixies at Redclyffe?' said Laura.

'O yes; the people there believe in them firmly. Jonas Ledbury heard them laughing one night
when he could not get the gate open,' said Guy.

'Ah! You are the authority for ghosts,' said Philip.

'I forgot that,' said Laura: 'I wonder we never asked you about your Redclyffe ghost.'

'You look as if you had seen it yourself,' said Philip.

'You have not?' exclaimed Amy, almost frightened.

'Come, let us have the whole story,' said Philip. 'Was it your own reflection in the glass?
was it old sir Hugh? or was it the murderer of Becket? Come, the ladies are both ready to scream
at the right moment. Never mind about giving him a cocked-hat, for with whom may you take a
liberty, if not with an ancestral ghost of your own?'

Amy could not think how Philip could have gone on all this time; perhaps it was because he
was not watching how Guy's colour varied, how he bit his lip; and at last his eyes seemed to
grow dark in the middle, and to sparkle with fire, as with a low, deep tone, like distant thunder,
conveying a tremendous force of suppressed passion, he exclaimed, 'Beware of trifling--' then
breaking off hastened out of the room.

'What's the matter?' asked Mr. Edmonstone, startled from his nap; and his wife looked up anxiously,
but returned to her book, as her nephew replied, 'Nothing.'

'How could you Philip?' said Laura.

'I really believe he has seen it!' said Amy, in a startled whisper.

'He has felt it, Amy--the Morville spirit,' said Philip.

'It is a great pity you spoke of putting a cocked hat to it,' said Laura; 'he must have suspected
us of telling you what happened about Mrs. Brownlow.'

'And are you going to do it now?' said her sister in a tone of remonstrance.

'I think Philip should hear it!' said Laura; and she proceeded to relate the story. She was
glad to see that her cousin was struck with it; he admired this care to maintain strict truth,
and even opened a memorandum-book--the sight of which Charles dreaded--and read the following
extract: 'Do not think of one falsity as harmless, and another as slight, and another as unintended.
Cast them all aside. They may be light and accidental, but they are an ugly soot from the smoke
of the pit, for all that; and it is better that our hearts should be swept clean of them, without
over care as to which is the largest or blackest.'

Laura and Amy were much pleased; but he went on to regret that such excellent dispositions
should be coupled with such vehemence of character and that unhappy temper. Amy was glad that
her sister ventured to hint that he might be more cautious in avoiding collisions.

'I am cautious', replied he, quickly and sternly; 'I am not to be told of the necessity of
exercising forbearance with this poor boy; but it is impossible to reckon on all the points
on which he is sensitive.'

'He is sensitive,' said Laura. 'I don't mean only in temper, but in everything. I wonder if
it is part of his musical temperament to be as keenly alive to all around, as his ear is to
every note. A bright day, a fine view, is such real happiness to him; he dwells on every beauty
of Redclyffe with such affection; and then, when he reads, Charles says it is like going over
the story again himself to watch his face act it in that unconscious manner.'

'He makes all the characters so real in talking them over,' said Amy, 'and he does not always
know how they will end before they begin.'

'I should think it hardly safe for so excitable a mind to dwell much on the world of fiction,'
said Philip.

'Nothing has affected him so much as Sintram,' said Laura. 'I never saw anything like it. He
took it up by chance, and stood reading it while all those strange expressions began to flit
over his face, and at last he fairly cried over it so much, that he was obliged to fly out
of the room. How often he has read it I cannot tell; I believe he has bought one for himself,
and it is as if the engraving had a fascination for him; he stands looking at it as if he was
in a dream.'

'He is a great mystery,' said Amy.

'All men are mysterious,' said Philip 'but he not more than others, though he may appear so
to you, because you have not had much experience, and also because most of the men you have
seen have been rounded into uniformity like marbles, their sharp angles rubbed off against
each other at school.'

'Would it be better if there were more sharp angles?' said Laura, thus setting on foot a discussion
on public schools, on which Philip had, of course, a great deal to say.

Amy's kind little heart was meanwhile grieving for Guy, and longing to see him return, but
he did not come till after Philip's departure. He looked pale and mournful, his hair hanging
loose and disordered, and her terror was excited lest he might actually have seen his ancestor's
ghost, which, in spite of her desire to believe in ghosts, in general, she did not by any means
wish to have authenticated. He was surprised and a good deal vexed to find Philip gone, but
he said hardly anything, and it was soon bedtime. When Charles took his arm, he exclaimed,
on finding his sleeve wet--'What can you have been doing?'

'Walking up and down under the wall,' replied Guy, with some reluctance.

'What, in the rain?'

'I don't know, perhaps it was.'

Amy, who was just behind, carrying the crutch, dreaded Charles's making any allusion to Sintram's
wild locks and evening wanderings, but ever since the outburst about King Charles, the desire
to tease and irritate Guy had ceased.

They parted at the dressing-room door, and as Guy bade her good night, he pushed back the damp
hair that had fallen across his forehead, saying, 'I am sorry I disturbed your evening. I will
tell you the meaning of it another time.'

'He has certainly seen the ghost!' said silly little Amy, as she shut herself into her own
room in such a fit of vague 'eerie' fright, that it was not till she had knelt down, and with
her face hidden in her hands, said her evening prayer, that she could venture to lift up her
head and look into the dark corners of the room.

'Another time!' Her heart throbbed at the promise.

The next afternoon, as she and Laura were fighting with a refractory branch of wisteria which
had been torn down by the wind, and refused to return to its place, Guy, who had been with
his tutor, came in from the stable-yard, reduced the trailing bough to obedience, and then
joined them in their walk. He looked grave, was silent at first, and then spoke abruptly--'It
is due to you to explain my behaviour last night.'

'Amy thinks you must have seen the ghost,' said Laura, trying to be gay.

'Did I frighten you?' said Guy, turning round, full of compunction. 'No, no. I never saw it.
I never even heard of its being seen. I am very sorry.'

'I was very silly,' said Amy smiling.

'But,' proceeded Guy, 'when I think of the origin of the ghost story, I cannot laugh, and if
Philip knew all--'

'Oh! He does not,' cried Laura; 'he only looks on it as we have always done, as a sort of romantic
appendage to Redclyffe. I should think better of a place for being haunted.'

'I used to be proud of it,' said Guy. 'I wanted to make out whether it was old Sir Hugh or
the murderer of Becket, who was said to groan and turn the lock of Dark Hugh's chamber. I hunted
among old papers, and a horrible story I found. That wretched Sir Hugh,--the same who began
the quarrel with your mother's family--he was a courtier of Charles II, as bad or worse than
any of that crew--'

'What was the quarrel about?' said Laura.

'He was believed to have either falsified or destroyed his father's will, so as to leave his
brother, your ancestor, landless; his brother remonstrated, and he turned him out of doors.
The forgery never was proved, but there was little doubt of it. There are traditions of his
crimes without number, especially his furious anger and malice. He compelled a poor lady to
marry him, though she was in love with another man; then he was jealous; he waylaid his rival,
shut him up in the turret chamber, committed him to prison, and bribed Judge Jeffries to sentence
him--nay it is even said he carried his wife to see the execution! He was so execrated that
he fled the country; he went to Holland, curried favour with William of Orange, brought his
wealth to help him, and that is the deserving action which got him the baronetcy! He served
in the army a good many years, and came home when he thought his sins would be forgotten. But
do you remember those lines?' and Guy repeated them in the low rigid tone, almost of horror,
in which he had been telling the story:--

                 'On some his vigorous judgments light,
                  In that dread pause 'twixt day and night,
                      Life's closing twilight hour;
                  Round some, ere yet they meet their doom,
                  Is shed the silence of the tomb,
                      The eternal shadows lower.'

'It was so with him; he lost his senses, and after many actions of mad violence, he ended by
hanging himself in the very room where he had imprisoned his victim.'

'Horrible!' said Laura. 'Yet I do not see why, when it is all past, you should feel it so deeply.'

'How should I not feel it?' answered Guy. 'Is it not written that the sins of the fathers shall
be visited on the children? You wonder to see me so foolish about Sintram. Well, it is my firm
belief that such a curse of sin and death as was on Sintram rests on the descendants of that
miserable man.'

The girls were silent, struck with awe and dismay at the fearful reality with which he pronounced
the words. At last, Amy whispered, 'But Sintram conquered his doom.'

At the same time Laura gathered her thoughts together, and said, 'This must be an imagination.
You have dwelt on it and fostered it till you believe it, but such notions should be driven
away or they will work their own fulfilment.'

'Look at the history of the Morvilles, and see if it be an imagination,' said Guy. 'Crime and
bloodshed have been the portion of each--each has added weight and darkness to the doom which
he had handed on. My own poor father, with his early death, was, perhaps, the happiest!'

Laura saw the idea was too deeply rooted to be treated as a fancy, and she found a better argument.
'The doom of sin and death is on us all, but you should remember that if you are a Morville,
you are also a Christian.'

'He does remember it!' said Amy, raising her eyes to his face, and then casting them down,
blushing at having understood his countenance, where, in the midst of the gloomy shades, there
rested for an instant the gleam which her mother had likened to the expression of Raffaelle's
cherub.'

They walked on for some time in silence. At last Laura exclaimed, 'Are you really like the
portrait of this unfortunate Sir Hugh?'

Guy made a sign of assent.

'Oh! It must have been taken before he grew wicked,' said Amy; and Laura felt the same conviction,
that treacherous revenge could never have existed beneath so open a countenance, with so much
of highmindedness, pure faith and contempt of wrong in every glance of the eagle eye, in the
frank expansion of the smooth forehead.

They were interrupted by Mr. Edmonstone's hearty voice, bawling across the garden for one of
the men. 'O Guy! are you there?' cried he, as soon as he saw him. 'Just what I wanted! Your
gun, man! We are going to ferret a rabbit.'

Guy ran off at full speed in search of his gun, whistling to Bustle. Mr. Edmonstone found his
man, and the sisters were again alone.

'Poor fellow!' said Laura.

'You will not tell all this to Philip?' said Amy.

'It would show why he was hurt, and it can be no secret.'

'I dare say you are right, but I have a feeling against it. Well, I am glad he had not seen
the ghost!'

The two girls had taken their walk, and were just going in, when, looking round, they saw Philip
walking fast and determinedly up the approach, and as they turned back to meet him, the first
thing he said was, 'Where is Guy?'

'Ferreting rabbits with papa. What is the matter?'

'And where is my aunt?'

Driving out with Charles and Charlotte. What is the matter?'

'Look here. Can you tell me the meaning of this which I found on my table when I came in this
morning?'

It was a card of Sir Guy Morville, on the back of which was written in pencil, 'Dear P., I
find hunting and reading don't agree, so take no further steps about the horse. Many thanks
for your trouble.--G.M.'

'There,' said Philip, 'is the result of brooding all night on his resentment.' 'Oh no!' cried
Laura, colouring with eagerness, 'you do not understand him. He could not bear it last night,
because, as he has been explaining to us, that old Sir Hugh's story was more shocking than
we ever guessed, and he has a fancy that their misfortunes are a family fate, and he could
not bear to hear it spoken of lightly.'

'Oh! He has been telling you his own story, has he?'

Laura's colour grew still deeper, 'If you had been there,' she said, 'you would have been convinced.
Why will you not believe that he finds hunting interfere with reading?'

'He should have thought of that before,' said Philip.

'Here have I half bought the horse! I have wasted the whole morning on it, and now I have to
leave it on the man's hands. I had a dozen times rather take it myself, if I could afford it.
Such a bargain as I had made, and such an animal as you will not see twice in your life.'

'It is a great pity,' said Laura. 'He should have known his own mind. I don't like people to
give trouble for nothing.'

'Crazy about it last night, and giving it up this morning! A most extraordinary proceeding.
No, no, Laura, this is not simple fickleness, it would be too absurd. It is temper, temper,
which makes a man punish himself, in hopes of punishing others.

Laura still spoke for Guy, and Amy rejoiced; for if her sister had not taken up the defence
of the absent, she must, and she felt too strongly to be willing to speak. It seemed too absurd
for one feeling himself under such a doom to wrangle about a horse, yet she was somewhat amused
by the conviction that if Guy had really wished to annoy Philip he had certainly succeeded.

There was no coming to an agreement. Laura's sense of justice revolted at the notion of Guy's
being guilty of petty spite; while Philip, firm in his preconceived idea of his character,
and his own knowledge of mankind, was persuaded that he had imputed the true motive, and was
displeased at Laura's attempting to argue the point. He could not wait to see any one else,
as he was engaged to dine out, and he set off again at his quick, resolute pace.

'He is very unfair!' exclaimed Amy.

'He did not mean to be so,' said Laura; 'and though he is mistaken in imputing such motives,
Guy's conduct has certainly been vexatious.'

They were just turning to go in, when they were interrupted by the return of the carriage;
and before Charles had been helped up the steps, their father and Guy came in sight. While
Guy went to shut up Bustle, who was too wet for the drawing-room, Mr. Edmonstone came up to
the others, kicking away the pebbles before him, and fidgeting with his gloves, as he always
did when vexed.

'Here's a pretty go!' said he. 'Here is Guy telling me he won't hunt any more!'

'Not hunt!' cried Mrs. Edmonstone and Charles at once; 'and why?'

'Oh! something about its taking his mind from his reading; but that can't be it--impossible,
you know; I'd give ten pounds to know what has vexed him. So keen as he was about it last night,
and I vow, one of the best riders in the whole field. Giving up that horse, too--I declare
it is a perfect sin! I told him he had gone too far, and he said he had left a note with Philip
this morning.'

'Yes,' said Laura; Philip has just been here about it. Guy left a card, saying, hunting and
reading would not agree.'

'That is an excuse, depend upon it,' said Mr. Edmonstone. 'Something has nettled him, I am
sure. It could not be that Gordon, could it, with his hail-fellow-well-met manner? I thought
Guy did not half like it the other day, when he rode up with his "Hollo, Morville!" The Morvilles
have a touch of pride of their own; eh, mamma?'

'I should be inclined to believe his own account of himself,' said she.

'I tell you, 'tis utterly against reason,' said Mr. Edmonstone, angrily. 'If he was a fellow
like Philip, or James Ross, I could believe it; but he--he make a book-worm! He hates it, like
poison, at the bottom of his heart, I'll answer for it; and the worst of it is, the fellow
putting forward such a fair reason one can't--being his guardian, and all--say what one thinks
of it oneself. Eh, mamma?'

'Not exactly,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.

'Well, you take him in hand, mamma. I dare say he will tell you the rights of it, and if it
is only that Gordon, explain it rightly to him, show him 'tis only the man's way; tell him
he treats me so for ever, and would the Lord-Lieutenant if he was in it.'

'For a' that and a' that,' said Charles, as Amy led him into the drawing-room.

'You are sure the reading is the only reason?' said Amy.'

'He's quite absurd enough for it,' said Charles; but 'absurd' was pronounced in a way that
made its meaning far from annoying even to Guy's little champion.

Guy came in the next moment, and running lightly up-stairs after Mrs. Edmonstone, found her
opening the dressing-room door, and asked if he might come in.

'By all means,' she said; 'I am quite ready for one of our twilight talks.'

'I am afraid I have vexed Mr. Edmonstone,' began Guy; 'and I am very sorry.'

'He was only afraid that something might have occurred to vex you, which you might not like
to mention to him,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, hesitating a little.

'Me! What could I have done to make him think so? I am angry with no one but myself. The fact
is only this, the hunting is too pleasant; it fills up my head all day and all night; and I
don't attend rightly to anything else. If I am out in the morning and try to pay for it at
night, it will not do; I can but just keep awake and that's all; the Greek letters all seem
to be hunting each other, the simplest things grow difficult, and at last all I can think of,
is how near the minute hand of my watch is near to the hour I have set myself. So, for the
last fortnight, every construing with Mr. Lascelles has been worse than the last; and as to
my Latin verses, they were beyond everything shocking, so you see there is no making the two
things agree, and the hunting must wait till I grow steadier, if I ever do. Heigho! It is a
great bore to be so stupid, for I thought--But it is of no use to talk of it!'

'Mr. Edmonstone would be a very unreasonable guardian, indeed, to be displeased,' said his
friend, smiling. You say you stopped the purchase of the horse. Why so? Could you not keep
him till you are more sure of yourself?'

'Do you think I might?' joyously exclaimed Guy. 'I'll write to Philip this minute by the post.
Such a splendid creature: it would do you good to see it--such action--such a neck--such spirit.
It would be a shame not to secure it. But no--no--' and he checked himself sorrowfully. 'I
have made my mind before that I don't deserve it. If it was here, it would always have to be
tried: if I heard the hounds I don't know I should keep from riding after them; whereas, now
I can't, for William won't let me take Deloraine. No, I can't trust myself to keep such a horse,
and not hunt. It will serve me right to see Mr. Brownlow on it, and he will never miss such
a chance!' and the depth of his sigh bore witness to the struggle it cost him.

'I should not like to use anyone as you use yourself,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking at him
with affectionate anxiety, which seemed suddenly to change the current of his thought, for
he exclaimed abruptly--'Mrs. Edmonstone, can you tell me anything about my mother?'

'I am afraid not,' said she, kindly; 'you know we had so little intercourse with your family,
that I heard little but the bare facts.'

'I don't think,' said Guy, leaning on the chimneypiece, 'that I ever thought much about her
till I knew you, but lately I have fancied a great deal about what might have been if she had
but lived.'

It was not Mrs. Edmonstone's way to say half what she felt, and she went on--'Poor thing! I
believe she was quite a child.'

'Only seventeen when she died,' said Guy.

Mrs. Edmonstone went to a drawer, took out two or three bundles of old letters, and after searching
in them by the fire-light, said--'Ah! here's a little about her; it is in a letter from my
sister-in-law, Philip's mother, when they were staying at Stylehurst.'

'Who? My father and mother?' cried Guy eagerly.

'Did you not know they had been there three or four days?'

'No--I know less about them than anybody,' said he, sadly: but as Mrs. Edmonstone waited, doubtful
as to whether she might be about to make disclosures for which he was unprepared, he added,
hastily--'I do know the main facts of the story; I was told them last autumn;' and an expression
denoting the remembrance of great suffering came over his face; then, pausing a moment, he
said--'I knew Archdeacon Morville had been very kind.'

'He was always interested about your father,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'and happening to meet
him in London some little time after his marriage, he--he was pleased with the manner in which
he was behaving then, thought--thought--' And here, recollecting that she must not speak ill
of old Sir Guy, nor palliate his son's conduct, poor Mrs. Edmonstone got into an inextricable
confusion--all the worse because the fierce twisting of a penwiper in Guy's fingers denoted
that he was suffering a great trial of patience. She avoided the difficulty thus: 'It is hard
to speak of such things when there is so much to be regretted on both sides; but the fact was,
my brother thought your father was harshly dealt with at that time. Of course he had done very
wrong; but he had been so much neglected and left to himself, that it seemed hardly fair to
visit his offence on him as severely as if he had had more advantages. So it ended in their
coming to spend a day or two at Stylehurst; and this is the letter my sister-in-law wrote at
the time:

'"Our visitors have just left us, and on the whole I am much better pleased than I expected.
The little Mrs. Morville is a very pretty creature, and as engaging as long flaxen curls, apple-blossom
complexion, blue eyes, and the sweetest of voices can make her; so full of childish glee and
playfulness, that no one would stop to think whether she was lady-like any more than you would
with a child. She used to go singing like a bird about the house as soon as the first strangeness
wore off, which was after her first game of play with Fanny and Little Philip. She made them
very fond of her, as indeed she would make every one who spent a day or two in the same house
with her. I could almost defy Sir Guy not to be reconciled after one sight of her sweet sunny
face. She is all affection and gentleness, and with tolerable training anything might be made
of her; but she is so young in mind and manners, that one cannot even think of blaming her
for her elopement, for she had no mother, no education but in music; and her brother seems
to have forced it on, thrown her in Mr. Morville's way, and worked on his excitable temperament,
until he hurried them into marriage. Poor little girl, I suppose she little guesses what she
has done; but it was very pleasant to see how devotedly attached he seemed to her; and there
was something beautiful in the softening of his impetuous tones when he said, 'Marianne;' and
her pride in him was very pretty, like a child playing at matronly airs."'

Guy gave a long, heavy sigh, brushed away a tear, and after a long silence, said, 'Is that all?'

'All that I like to read to you. Indeed, there is no more about her; and it would be of no
use to read all the reports that were going about.--Ah! here,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking
into another letter, 'she speaks of your father as a very fine young man, with most generous
impulses,'--but here again she was obliged to stop, for the next sentence spoke of 'a noble
character ruined by mismanagement.' 'She never saw them again,' continued Mrs. Edmonstone;
'Mr. Dixon, your mother's brother, had great influence with your father, and made matters worse--so
much worse, that my brother did not feel himself justified in having any more to do with them.'

'Ah! he went to America,' said Guy; 'I don't know any more about him except that he came to
the funeral and stood with his arms folded, not choosing to shake hands with my poor grandfather.'
After another silence he said, 'Will you read that again?' and when he had heard it, he sat
shading his brow with his hand, as if to bring the fair, girlish picture fully before his mind,
while Mrs. Edmonstone sought in vain among her letters for one which did not speak of the fiery
passions ignited on either side, in terms too strong to be fit for his ears.

When next he spoke it was to repeat that he had not been informed of the history of his parents
till within the last few months. He had, of course, known the manner of their death, but had
only lately become aware of the circumstances attending it.

The truth was that Guy had grown up peculiarly shielded from evil, but ignorant of the cause
of the almost morbid solicitude with which he was regarded by his grandfather. He was a very
happy, joyous boy, leading an active, enterprising life, though so lonely as to occasion greater
dreaminess and thoughtfulness than usual at such an early age. He was devotedly attached to
his grandfather, looking on him as the first and best of human beings, and silencing the belief
that Sir Hugh Morville had entailed a doom of crime and sorrow on the family, by a reference
to him, as one who had been always good and prosperous.

When, however, Guy had reached an age at which he must encounter the influences which had proved
so baneful to others of his family, his grandfather thought it time to give him the warning
of his own history.

The sins, which the repentance of years had made more odious in the eyes of the old man, were
narrated; the idleness and insubordination at first, then the reckless pursuit of pleasure,
the craving for excitement, the defiance of rule and authority, till folly had become vice,
and vice had led to crime.

He had fought no fewer than three duels, and only one had been bloodless. His misery after
the first had well-nigh led to a reform; but time had dulled its acuteness--it had been lost
in fresh scenes of excitement--and at the next offence rage had swept away such recollections.
Indeed, so far had he lost the natural generosity of his character, that his remorse had been
comparatively slight for the last, which was the worst of all, since he had forced the quarrel
on his victim, Captain Wellwood, whose death had left a wife and children almost destitute.
His first awakening to a sense of what his course had been, was when he beheld his only child,
in the prime of youth, carried lifeless across his threshold, and attributed his death to his
own intemperance and violence. That hour made Sir Guy Morville an old and a broken-hearted
man; and he repented as vigorously as he had sinned.

From the moment he dared to hope that his son's orphan would be spared, he had been devoted
to him, but still mournfully, envying and pitying his innocence as something that could not last.

He saw bright blossoms put forth, as the boy grew older; but they were not yet fruits, and
he did not dare to believe they ever would be. The strength of will which had, in his own case,
been the slave of his passions, had been turned inward to subdue the passions themselves, but
this was only the beginning--the trial was not yet come. He could hope his grandson might repent,
but this was the best that he dared to think possible. He could not believe that a Morville
could pass unscathed through the world, or that his sins would not be visited on the head of
his only descendant; and the tone of his narration was throughout such as might almost have
made the foreboding cause its own accomplishment.

The effect was beyond what he had expected; for a soul deeply dyed in guilt, even though loathing
its own stains, had not the power of conceiving how foul was the aspect of vice, to one hitherto
guarded from its contemplation, and living in a world of pure, lofty day-dreams. The boy sat
the whole time without a word, his face bent down and hidden by his clasped hands, only now
and then unable to repress a start or shudder at some fresh disclosure; and when it was ended,
he stood up, gazed round, and walked uncertainly, as if he did not know where he was. His next
impulse was to throw himself on his knee beside his grandfather, and caress him as he used
to when a child. The 'good-night' was spoken, and Guy was shut into his room, with his overwhelming
emotions.

His grandfather a blood-stained, remorseful man! The doom was complete, himself heir to the
curse of Sir Hugh, and fated to run the same career; and as he knew full well, with the tendency
to the family character strong within him, the germs of these hateful passions ready to take
root downwards and bear fruit upwards, with the very countenance of Sir Hugh, and the same
darkening, kindling eyes, of which traditions had preserved the remembrance.

He was crushed for awhile. The consciousness of strength not his own, of the still small voice
that could subdue the fire, the earthquake, and the whirlwind, was slow in coming to him; and
when it came, he, like his grandfather, had hope rather of final repentance than of keeping
himself unstained.

His mind had not recovered the shock when his grandfather died,--died in faith and fear, with
good hope of accepted repentance, but unable to convey the assurance of such hope to his grandson.
Grief for the only parent he had ever known, and the sensation of being completely alone in
the world, were joined to a vague impression of horror at the suddenness of the stroke, and
it was long before the influence of Hollywell, or the elasticity of his own youthfulness, could
rouse him from his depression.

Even then it was almost against his will that he returned to enjoyment, unable to avoid being
amused, but feeling as if joy was not meant for him, and as if those around were walking 'in
a world of light,' where he could scarcely hope to tread a few uncertain steps. In this despondency
was Guy's chief danger, as it was likely to make him deem a struggle with temptation fruitless,
while his high spirits and powers of keen enjoyment increased the peril of recklessness in
the reaction.

It was Mrs. Edmonstone who first spoke with him cheerfully of a successful conflict with evil,
and made him perceive that his temptations were but such as is common to man. She had given
him a clue to discover when and how to trust himself to enjoy; the story of Sintram had stirred
him deeply, and this very day, Amy's words, seemingly unheeded and unheard, had brought home
to him the hope and encouragement of that marvellous tale.

They had helped him in standing, looking steadfastly upwards, and treading down not merely
evil, but the first token of coming evil, regardless of the bruises he might inflict on himself.
Well for him if he was constant.

Such was Guy's inner life; his outward life, frank and joyous, has been shown, and the two
flowed on like a stream, pure as crystal, but into which the eye cannot penetrate from its
depth. The surface would be sometimes obscured by cloud or shade, and reveal the sombre wells
beneath; but more often the sunshine would penetrate the inmost recesses, and make them glance
and sparkle, showing themselves as clear and limpid as the surface itself.

CHAPTER 6

      Can piety the discord heal,
      Or stanch the death-feud's enmity?
                                --Scott

It must not be supposed that such a history of Guy's mind was expressed by himself, or understood
by Mrs. Edmonstone; but she saw enough to guess at his character, perceive the sort of guidance
he needed, and be doubly interested in him. Much did she wish he could have such a friend as
her brother would have been, and hope that nothing would prevent a friendship with her nephew.

The present question about the horse was, she thought, unfortunate, since, though Guy had exercised
great self-denial, it was no wonder Philip was annoyed. Mr. Edmonstone's vexation was soon
over. As soon as she had persuaded him that there had been no offence, he strove to say with
a good grace, that it was very proper, and told Guy he would be a thorough book-worm and tremendous
scholar, which Guy took as an excellent joke.

Philip had made up his mind to be forbearing, and to say no more about it. Laura thought this
a pity, as they could thus never come to an understanding; but when she hinted it, he wore
such a dignified air of not being offended, that she was much ashamed of having tried to direct
one so much better able to judge. On his side Guy had no idea the trouble he had caused; so,
after bestowing his thanks in a gay, off-hand way, which Philip thought the worst feature of
the case, he did his best to bring Hecuba back into his mind, drive the hunters out of it,
and appease the much-aggrieved William of Deloraine.

When all William's manoeuvres resulted in his master's not hunting at all, he was persuaded
it was Mr. Edmonstone's fault, compassionated Sir Guy with all his heart, and could only solace
himself by taking Deloraine to exercise where he was most likely to meet the hounds. He further
chose to demonstrate that he was not Mr. Edmonstone's servant, by disregarding some of his
stable regulations; but as soon as this came to his master's knowledge, a few words were spoken
so sharp and stern, that William never attempted to disobey again.

It seemed as if it was the perception that so much was kept back by a strong force, that made
Guy's least token of displeasure so formidable. A village boy, whom he caught misusing a poor
dog, was found a few minutes after, by Mr. Ross, in a state of terror that was positively ludicrous,
though it did not appear that Sir Guy had said or done much to alarm him; it was only the light
in his eyes, and the strength of repressed indignation in his short broken words that had made
the impression.

It appeared as if the force of his anger might be fearful, if once it broke forth without control;
yet at the same time he had a gentleness and attention, alike to small and great, which, with
his high spirit and good nature, his very sweet voice and pleasant smile, made him a peculiarly
winning and engaging person; and few who saw him could help being interested in him.

No wonder he had become in the eyes of the Edmonstones almost a part of their family. Mrs.
Edmonstone had assumed a motherly control over him, to which he submitted with a sort of affectionate
gratitude.

One day Philip remarked, that he never saw any one so restless as Guy, who could neither talk
nor listen without playing with something. Scissors, pencil, paper-knife, or anything that
came in his way, was sure to be twisted or tormented; or if nothing else was at hand, he opened
and shut his own knife so as to put all the spectators in fear for his fingers.

'Yes,' said Laura, 'I saw how it tortured your eyebrows all the time you were translating Schiller
to us. I wondered you were not put out.'

'I consider that to be put out--by which you mean to have the intellect at the mercy of another's
folly--is beneath a reasonable creature,' said Philip; 'but that I was annoyed, I do not deny.
It is a token of a restless, ill-regulated mind.'

'Restless, perhaps,' said Mrs. Edmonstone 'but not necessarily ill-regulated. I should think
it rather a sign that he had no one to tell him of the tricks which mothers generally nip in
the bud.'

'I was going to say that I think he fidgets less,' said Laura; 'but I think his chief contortions
of the scissors have been when Philip has been here.'

'They have, I believe,' said her mother, I was thinking of giving him a hint.'

'Well, aunt, you are a tamer of savage beasts if you venture on such a subject,' said Philip.

'Do you dare me?' she asked, smiling.

'Why, I don't suppose he would do more than give you one of his lightning glances: but that,
I think, is more than you desire.'

'Considerably,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'for his sake as much as my own.'

'But,' said Laura, 'mamma has nearly cured him of pawing like a horse in the hall when he is
kept waiting. He said he knew it was impatience, and begged her to tell him how to cure it.
So she treated him as an old fairy might, and advised him in a grave, mysterious way, always
to go and play the "Harmonious Blacksmith," when he found himself getting into "a taking",
just as if it was a charm. And he always does it most dutifully.'

'It has a very good effect,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'for it is apt to act as a summons to the
other party, as well as a sedative to him.'

'I must say I am curious to see what you will devise this time,' said Philip; 'since you can't
set him to play on the piano; and very few can bear to be told of a trick of the kind.'

In the course of that evening, Philip caused the great atlas to be brought out in order to
make investigations on the local habitation of a certain Khan of Kipchack, who existed somewhere
in the dark ages. Then he came to Marco Polo, and Sir John Mandeville; and Guy, who knew both
the books in the library at Redclyffe, grew very eager in talking them over, and tracing their
adventures--then to the Genoese merchants, where Guy confessed himself perfectly ignorant.
Andrea Doria was the only Genoese he ever heard of; but he hunted out with great interest all
the localities of their numerous settlements. Then came modern Italy, and its fallen palaces;
then the contrast between the republican merchant and aristocratic lord of the soil; then the
corn laws; and then, and not till then, did Philip glance at his aunt, to show her Guy balancing
a Venetian weight on as few of his fingers as could support it.

'Guy,' said she, smiling, 'does that unfortunate glass inspire you with any arguments in favour
of the Venetians?'

Guy put it down at once, and Philip proceeded to improved methods of farming, to enable landlords
to meet the exigencies of the times. Guy had got hold of Mr. Edmonstone's spectacle-case, and
was putting its spring to a hard trial. Mrs. Edmonstone doubted whether to interfere again;
she knew this was not the sort of thing that tried his temper, yet she particularly disliked
playing him off, as it were for Philip's amusement, and quite as much letting him go on, and
lower himself in her nephew's estimation. The spectacle-case settled the matter--a crack was
heard, it refused to snap at all; and Guy, much discomfited, made many apologies.

Amy laughed; Philip was much too well-bred to do anything but curl his lip unconsciously. Mrs.
Edmonstone waited till he was gone, then, when she was wishing Guy 'good-night' at Charles's
door, she said,--

'The spectacle-case forestalled me in giving you a lecture on sparing our nerves. Don't look
so very full of compunction--it is only a trick which your mother would have stopped at five
years old, and which you can soon stop for yourself.'

'Thank you, I will!' said Guy; 'I hardly knew I did it, but I am very sorry it has teased you.'

Thenceforward it was curious to see how he put down and pushed away all he had once begun to
touch and torture. Mrs. Edmonstone said it was self command in no common degree; and Philip
allowed that to cure so inveterate a habit required considerable strength of will.

'However,' he said, 'I always gave the Morvilles credit for an iron resolution. Yes, Amy, you
may laugh; but if a man is not resolute in a little, he will never be resolute in great matters.'

'And Guy has been resolute the right way this time,' said Laura.

'May he always be the same,' said Philip.

Philip had undertaken, on his way back to Broadstone, to conduct Charlotte to East-hill, where
she was to spend the day with a little niece of Mary Ross. She presently came down, her bonnet-strings
tied in a most resolute-looking bow, and her little figure drawn up so as to look as womanly
is possible for her first walk alone with Philip. She wished the party at home 'goodbye;' and
as Amy and Laura stood watching her, they could not help laughing to see her tripping feet
striving to keep step, her blue veil discreetly composed and her little head turned up, as
if she was trying hard to be on equal terms with the tall cousin, who meanwhile looked graciously
down from his height, patronising her like a very small child. After some space, Amy began
to wonder what they could talk about, or whether they would talk at all; but Laura said there
was no fear of Charlotte's tongue ever being still, and Charles rejoined,--

'Don't you know that Philip considers it due to himself that his audience should never be without
conversation suited to their capacity?'

'Nonsense, Charlie!'

'Nay, I give him credit for doing it as well as it is in nature of things for it to be done.
The strongest proof I know of his being a superior man, is the way he adapts himself to his
company. He lays down the law to us, because he knows we are all born to be his admirers; he
calls Thorndale his dear fellow and conducts him like a Mentor; but you may observe how different
he is with other people--Mr. Ross, for instance. It is not showing off; it is just what the
pattern hero should be with the pattern clergyman. At a dinner party he is quite in his place;
contents himself with leaving an impression on his neighbour that Mr. Morville is at home on
every subject; and that he is the right thing with his brother officers is sufficiently proved,
since not even Maurice either hates or quizzes him.'

'Well, Charlie,' said Laura, well pleased, I am glad you are convinced at last.'

'Do you think I ever wanted to be convinced that we were created for no other end than to applaud
Philip? I was fulfilling the object of our existence by enlarging on a remark of Guy's, that
nothing struck him more than the way in which Philip could adapt his conversation to the hearers.
So the hint was not lost on me; and I came to the conclusion that it was a far greater proof
of his sense than all the maxims he lavishes on us.'

'I wonder Guy was the person to make the remark,' said Laura; 'for it is strange that those
two never appear to the best advantage together.'

'Oh, Laura, that would be the very reason,' said Amy.

'The very reason?' said Charles. Draw out your meaning, Miss.'

'Yes,' said Amy, colouring, 'If Guy--if a generous person, I mean--were vexed with another
sometimes, it would be the very reason he would make the most of all his goodness.'

'Heigh-ho!' yawned Charles. What o'clock is it? I wonder when Guy is ever coming back from
that Lascelles.'

'Your wonder need not last long,' said Laura; 'for I see him riding into the stable yard.'

In a few minutes he had entered; and, on being asked if he had met Philip and Charlotte, and
how they were getting on, he replied,--'A good deal like the print of Dignity and Impudence,'
at the same time throwing back his shoulders, and composing his countenance to imitate Philip's
lofty deportment and sedate expression, and the next moment putting his head on one side with
a sharp little nod, and giving a certain espiegle glance of the eye, and knowing twist of one
corner of the mouth, just like Charlotte.

'By the by,' added he, 'would Philip have been a clergyman if he had gone to Oxford?'

'I don't know; I don't think it was settled,' said Laura, 'Why?'

'I could never fancy him one' said Guy. 'He would not have been what he is now if he had gone
to Oxford,' said Charles. 'He would have lived with men of the same powers and pursuits with
himself, and have found his level.'

'And that would have been a very high one,' said Guy.

'It would; but there would be all the difference there is between a feudal prince and an Eastern
despot. He would know what it is to live with his match.'

'But you don't attempt to call him conceited!' cried Guy, with a sort of consternation.

'He is far above that; far too grand,' said Amy.

'I should as soon think of calling Jupiter conceited,' said Charles; and Laura did not know
how far to be gratified, or otherwise.

Charles had not over-estimated Philip's readiness of self adaptation. Charlotte had been very
happy with him, talking over the "Lady of the Lake", which she had just read, and being enlightened,
partly to her satisfaction, partly to her disappointment, as to how much was historical. He
listened good-naturedly to a fit of rapture, and threw in a few, not too many, discreet words
of guidance to the true principles of taste; and next told her about an island, in a pond at
Stylehurst, which had been by turns Ellen's isle and Robinson Crusoe's. It was at this point
in the conversation that Guy came in sight, riding slowly, his reins on his horse's neck, whistling
a slow, melancholy tune, his eyes fixed on the sky, and so lost in musings, that he did not
perceive them till Philip arrested him by calling out, 'That is a very bad plan. No horse is
to be trusted in that way, especially such a spirited one.'

Guy started, and gathered up his reins, owning it was foolish.

'You look only half disenchanted yet,' said Philip. 'Has Lascelles put you into what my father's
old gardener used to call a stud?'

'Nothing so worthy of a stud,' said Guy, smiling and colouring a little. 'I was only dreaming
over a picture of ruin--

                 'The steed is vanish'd from the stall,
                  No serf is seen in Hassan's hall,
                  The lonely spider's thin grey pall
                  Waves, slowly widening o'er the wall.'

'Byron!' exclaimed Philip. 'I hope you are not dwelling on him?'

'Only a volume I found in my room.'

'Oh, the "Giaour"!' said Philip. 'Well, there is no great damage done; but it is bad food for
excitable minds. Don't let it get hold of you.'

'Very well;' and there was a cloud, but it cleared in a moment, and, with a few gay words to
both, he rode off at a quick pace.

'Foolish fellow!' muttered Philip, looking after him.

After some space of silence, Charlotte began in a very grave tone--

'Philip.'

'Well?'

'Philip.'

Another 'Well!' and another long pause.

'Philip, I don't know whether you'll be angry with me.'

'Certainly not,' said Philip, marvelling at what was coming.

'Guy says he does not want to keep up the feud, and I wish you would not.'

'What do you mean?'

'The deadly feud!' said Charlotte.

'What nonsense is this?' said Philip.

'Surely--Oh Philip, there always was a deadly feud between our ancestors, and the Redclyffe
Morvilles, and it was very wrong, and ought not to be kept up now.'

'It is not I that keep it up.'

'Is it not?' said Charlotte. 'But I am sure you don't like Guy. And I can't think why not,
unless it is the deadly feud, for we are all so fond of him. Laura says it is a different house
since he came.'

'Hum!' said Philip. 'Charlotte, you did well to make me promise not to be angry with you, by
which, I presume, you mean displeased. I should like to know what put this notion into your head.'

'Charlie told me,' almost whispered Charlotte, hanging down her head. 'And--and--'

'And what? I can't hear.'

Charlotte was a good deal frightened; but either from firmness, or from the female propensity
to have the last word, or it might be the spirit of mischief, she got out--'You have made me
quite sure of it yourself.'

She was so alarmed at having said this, that had it not been undignified, she would have run
quite away, and never stopped till she came to East-hill. Matters were not mended when Philip
said authoritatively, and as if he was not in the least bit annoyed (which was the more vexatious),
'What do you mean, Charlotte?'

She had a great mind to cry, by way of getting out of the scrape; but having begun as a counsellor
and peacemaker, it would never do to be babyish; and on his repeating the question, she said,
in a tone which she could not prevent from being lachrymose, 'You make Guy almost angry, you
tease him, and when people praise him, you answer as if it would not last! And it is very unfair
of you,' concluded she, with almost a sob.

'Charlotte,' replied Philip, much more kindly than she thought she deserved, after the reproach
that seemed to her so dreadfully naughty, 'you may dismiss all fear of deadly feud, whatever
you may mean by it. Charles has been playing tricks on you. You know, my little cousin, that
I am a Christian, and we live in the nineteenth century.'

Charlotte felt as if annihilated at the aspect of her own folly. He resumed--'You misunderstood
me. I do think Guy very agreeable. He is very attentive to Charles, very kind to you, and so
attractive, that I don't wonder you like him. But those who are older than you see that he
has faults, and we wish to set him on his guard against them. It may be painful to ourselves,
and irritating to him, but depend upon it, it is the proof of friendship. Are you satisfied,
my little cousin?'

She could only say humbly, 'I beg your pardon.'

'You need not ask pardon. Since you had the notion, it was right to speak, as it was to me,
one of your own family. When you are older, you need never fear to speak out in the right place.
I am glad you have so much of the right sort of feminine courage, though in this case you might
have ventured to trust to me.'

So ended Charlotte's anxieties respecting the deadly feud, and she had now to make up her mind
to the loss of her playfellow, who was to go to Oxford at Easter, when he would be just eighteen,
his birthday being the 28th of March. Both her playmates were going, Bustle as well as Guy,
and it was at first proposed that Deloraine should go too, but Guy bethought himself that Oxford
would be a place of temptation for William; and not choosing to trust the horse to any one
else, resolved to leave both at Hollywell.

His grandfather had left an allowance for Guy, until his coming of age, such as might leave
no room for extravagance, and which even Philip pronounced to be hardly sufficient for a young
man in his position. 'You know,' said Mr. Edmonstone, in his hesitating, good-natured way,
'if ever you have occasion sometimes for a little--a little more--you need only apply to me.
Don't be afraid, anything rather than run into debt. You know me, and 'tis your own.'

'This shall do,' said Guy, in the same tone as he had fixed his hours of study.

Each of the family made Guy a birthday present, as an outfit for Oxford; Mr. Edmonstone gave
him a set of studs, Mrs. Edmonstone a Christian Year, Amabel copied some of his favourite songs,
Laura made a drawing of Sintram, Charlotte worked a kettle-holder, with what was called by
courtesy a likeness of Bustle. Charles gave nothing, professing that he would do nothing to
encourage his departure.

'You don't know what a bore it is to lose the one bit of quicksilver in the house!' said he,
yawning. 'I shall only drag on my existence till you come back.'

'You, Charles, the maker of fun!' said Guy, amazed.

'It is a case of flint and steel,' said Charles; 'but be it owing to who it will, we have been
alive since you came here. You have taken care to be remembered. We have been studying you,
or laughing at you, or wondering what absurdity was to come next.'

'I am very sorry--that is, if you are serious. I hoped at least I appeared like other people.'

'I'll tell you what you appear like. Just what I would be if I was a free man.'

'Never say that, Charlie!'

'Nay, wait a bit. I would never be so foolish. I would never give my sunny mornings to Euripides;
I would not let the best hunter in the county go when I had wherewithal to pay for him.'

'You would not have such an ill-conditioned self to keep in rule.'

'After all,' continued Charles, yawning, 'it is no great compliment to say I am sorry you are
going. If you were an Ethiopian serenader, you would be a loss to me. It is something to see
anything beyond this old drawing-room, and the same faces doing the same things every day.
Laura poking over her drawing, and meditating upon the last entry in Philip's memorandum-book,
and Amy at her flowers or some nonsense or other, and Charlotte and the elders all the same,
and a lot of stupid people dropping in and a lot of stupid books to read, all just alike. I
can tell what they are like without looking in!' Charles yawned again, sighed, and moved wearily.
'Now, there came some life and freshness with you. You talk of Redclyffe, and your brute creation
there, not like a book, and still less like a commonplace man; you are innocent and unsophisticated,
and take new points of view; you are something to interest oneself about; your coming in is
something to look forward to; you make the singing not such mere milk-and-water, your reading
the Praelectiones is an additional landmark to time; besides the mutton of to-day succeeding
the beef of yesterday. Heigh-ho! I'll tell you what, Guy. Though I may carry it off with a
high hand, 'tis no joke to be a helpless log all the best years of a man's life,--nay, for
my whole life,--for at the very best of the contingencies the doctors are always flattering
me with, I should make but a wretched crippling affair of it. And if that is the best hope
they give me, you may guess it is likely to be a pretty deal worse. Hope? I've been hoping
these ten years, and much good has it done me. I say, Guy,' he proceeded, in a tone of extreme
bitterness, though with a sort of smile, 'the only wonder is that I don't hate the very sight
of you! There are times when I feel as if I could bite some men,--that Tomfool Maurice de Courcy,
for instance, when I hear him rattling on, and think--'

'I know I have often talked thoughtlessly, I have feared afterwards I might have given you pain.'

'No, no, you never have; you have carried me along with you. I like nothing better than to
hear of your ridings, and shootings, and boatings. It is a sort of life.'

Charles had never till now alluded seriously to his infirmity before Guy, and the changing
countenance of his auditor showed him to be much affected, as he stood leaning over the end
of the sofa, with his speaking eyes earnestly fixed on Charles, who went on:

'And now you are going to Oxford. You will take your place among the men of your day. You will
hear and be heard of. You will be somebody. And I!--I know I have what they call talent--I
could be something. They think me an idle dog; but where's the good of doing anything? I only
know if I was not--not condemned to--to this--this life,' (had it not been for a sort of involuntary
respect to the gentle compassion of the softened hazel eyes regarding him so kindly, he would
have used the violent expletive that trembled on his lip;) 'if I was not chained down here,
Master Philip should not stand alone as the paragon of the family. I've as much mother wit as he.'

'That you have,' said Guy. 'How fast you see the sense of a passage. You could excel very much
if you only tried.'

'Tried?' And what am I to gain by it?'

'I don't know that one ought to let talents rust,' said Guy, thoughtfully; 'I suppose it is
one's duty not; and surely it is a pity to give up those readings.'

'I shall not get such another fellow dunce as you,' said Charles, 'as I told you when we began,
and it would be a mere farce to do it alone. I could not make myself, if I would.'

'Can't you make yourself do what you please?' said Guy, as if it was the simplest thing in
the world.

'Not a bit, if the other half of me does not like it. I forget it, or put it off, and it comes
to nothing. I do declare, though, I would get something to break my mind on, merely as a medical
precaution, just to freshen myself up, if I could find any one to do it with. No, nothing in
the shape of a tutor, against that I protest.'

'Your sisters,' suggested Guy.

'Hum'! Laura is too intellectual already, and I don't mean to poach on Philip's manor; and
if I made little Amy cease to be silly, I should do away with all the comfort I have left me
in life. I don't know, though, if she swallowed learning after Mary Ross's pattern, that it
need do her much harm.'

Amy came into the room at the moment. 'Amy, here is Guy advising me to take you to read something
awfully wise every day, something that will make you as dry as a stick, and as blue--'

'As a gentianella,' said Guy.

'I should not mind being like a gentianella,' said Amy. 'But what dreadful thing were you setting
him to do?'

'To make you read all the folios in my uncle's old library,' said Charles. 'All that Margaret
has in keeping against Philip has a house of his own.'

'Sancho somebody, and all you talked of when first you came?' said Amy.

'We were talking of the hour's reading that Charlie and I have had together lately,' said Guy.

'I was thinking how Charlie would miss that hour,' said Amy; 'and we shall be very sorry not
to have you to listen to.'

'Well, then, Amy, suppose you read with me?'

'Oh, Charlie, thank you! Should you really like it?' cried Amy, colouring with delight. 'I
have always thought it would be so very delightful if you would read with me, as James Ross
used with Mary, only I was afraid of tiring you with my stupidity. Oh, thank you!'

So it was settled, and Charles declared that he put himself on honour to give a good account
of their doings to Guy, that being the only way of making himself steady to his resolution;
but he was perfectly determined not to let Philip know anything about the practice he had adopted,
since he would by no means allow him to guess that he was following his advice.

Charles had certainly grown very fond of Guy, in spite of his propensity to admire Philip,
satisfying himself by maintaining that, after all, Guy only tried to esteem his cousin because
he thought it a point of duty, just as children think it right to admire the good boy in a
story book; but that he was secretly fretted and chafed by his perfection. No one could deny
that there were often occasions when little misunderstandings would arise, and that, but for
Philip's coolness and Guy's readiness to apologise they might often have gone further; but
at the same time no one could regret these things more than Guy himself, and he was willing
and desirous to seek Philip's advice and assistance when needed. In especial, he listened earnestly
to the counsel which was bestowed on him about Oxford: and Mrs. Edmonstone was convinced that
no one could have more anxiety to do right and avoid temptation. She had many talks with him
in her dressing-room, promising to write to him, as did also Charles; and he left Hollywell
with universal regrets, most loudly expressed by Charlotte, who would not be comforted without
a lock of Bustle's hair, which she would have worn round her neck if she had not been afraid
that Laura would tell Philip.

'He goes with excellent intentions,' said Philip, as they watched him from the door.

'I do hope he will do well,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'I wish he may,' said Philip; 'the agreeableness of his whole character makes one more anxious.
It is very dangerous. His name, his wealth, his sociable, gay disposition, that very attractive
manner, all are so many perils, and he has not that natural pleasure in study that would be
of itself a preservative from temptation. However, he is honestly anxious to do right, and
has excellent principles. I only fear his temper and his want of steadiness. Poor boy, I hope
he may do well!'

CHAPTER 7

                    --Pray, good shepherd, what
      Fair swain is this that dances with your daughter?
        *         *         *         *          *
      He sings several times faster than you'll tell money;
      he utters them as he had eaten ballads, and all men's
      ears grow to his tunes.
                                  --WINTER'S TALE

It was a glorious day in June, the sky of pure deep dazzling blue, the sunshine glowing with
brightness, but with cheerful freshness in the air that took away all sultriness, the sun tending
westward in his long day's career, and casting welcome shadows from the tall firs and horse-chestnuts
that shaded the lawn. A long rank of haymakers--men and women--proceeded with their rakes,
the white shirt-sleeves, straw bonnets, and ruddy faces, radiant in the bath of sunshine, while
in the shady end of the field were idler haymakers among the fragrant piles, Charles half lying
on the grass, with his back against a tall haycock; Mrs. Edmonstone sitting on another, book
in hand; Laura sketching the busy scene, the sun glancing through the chequered shade on her
glossy curls; Philip stretched out at full length, hat and neck-tie off, luxuriating in the
cool repose after a dusty walk from Broadstone; and a little way off, Amabel and Charlotte
pretending to make hay, but really building nests with it, throwing it at each other, and playing
as heartily as the heat would allow.

They talked and laughed, the rest were too hot, too busy, or too sleepy for conversation, even
Philip being tired into enjoying the "dolce far niente"; and they basked in the fresh breezy
heat and perfumy hay with only now and then a word, till a cold, black, damp nose was suddenly
thrust into Charles's face, a red tongue began licking him; and at the same moment Charlotte,
screaming 'There he is!' raced headlong across the swarths of hay, to meet Guy, who had just
ridden into the field. He threw Deloraine's rein to one of the haymakers, and came bounding
to meet her, just in time to pick her up as she put her foot into a hidden hole, and fell prostrate.

In another moment he was in the midst of the whole party, who crowded round and welcomed him
as if he had been a boy returning from his first half-year's schooling; and never did little
school-boy look more holiday-like than he, with all the sunshine of that June day reflected,
as it were, in his glittering eyes and glowing face, while Bustle escaping from Charles's caressing
arm, danced round, wagging his tail in ecstasy, and claiming his share of the welcome. Then
Guy was on the ground by Charles, rejoicing to find him out there, and then, some dropping
into their former nests on the hay, some standing round, they talked fast and eagerly in a
confusion of sound that did not subside for the first ten minutes so as to allow anything to
be clearly heard. The first distinct sentence was Charlotte's 'Bustle, darling old fellow,
you are handsomer than ever!'

'What a delicious day!' next exclaimed Guy, following Philip's example, by throwing off hat
and neck-tie.

'A spontaneous tribute to the beauty of the day,' said Charles.

'Really it is so ultra-splendid as to deserve notice!' said Philip, throwing himself completely
back, and looking up.

'One cannot help revelling in that deep blue!' said Laura.

'Tomorrow'll be the happiest time of all the glad new year,' hummed Guy.

'Ah you will teach us all now,' said Laura, 'after your grand singing lessons.'

'Do you know what is in store for you, Guy?' said Amy. 'Oh! haven't you heard about Lady Kilcoran's
ball?'

'You are to go, Guy,' said Charlotte. 'I am glad I am not. I hate dancing.'

'And I know as much about it as Bustle,' said Guy, catching the dog by his forepaws, and causing
him to perform an uncouth dance.

'Never mind, they will soon teach you,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'Must I really go?'

'He begins to think it serious,' said Charles.

'Is Philip going?' exclaimed Guy, looking as if he was taken by surprise.

'He is going to say something about dancing being a healthful recreation for young people,'
said Charles.

'You'll be disappointed,' said Philip. 'It is much too hot to moralize.'

'Apollo unbends his bow,' exclaimed Charles. 'The captain yields the field.'

'Ah! Captain Morville, I ought to have congratulated you,' said Guy. 'I must come to Broadstone
early enough to see you on parade.'

'Come to Broadstone! You aren't still bound to Mr. Lascelles,' said Charles.

'If he has time for me,' said Guy. 'I am too far behind the rest of the world to afford to
be idle this vacation.'

'That's right, Guy,' exclaimed Philip, sitting up, and looking full of approval. 'With so much
perseverance, you must get on at last. How did you do in collections?'

'Tolerably, thank you.'

'You must be able to enter into the thing now,' proceeded Philip. 'What are you reading?'

'Thucydides.'

'Have you come to Pericles' oration? I must show you some notes that I have on that. Don't
you get into the spirit of it now?'

'Up-hill work still,' answered Guy, disentangling some cinders from the silky curls of Bustle's
ear.

'Which do you like best--that or the ball?' asked Charles.

'The hay-field best of all,' said Guy, releasing Bustle, and blinding him with a heap of hay.

'Of course!' said Charlotte, 'who would not like hay-making better than that stupid ball?'

'Poor Charlotte!' said Mrs. Edmonstone; commiseration which irritated Charlotte into standing
up and protesting,

'Mamma, you know I don't want to go.'

'No more do I, Charlotte,' said her brother, in a mock consoling tone. 'You and I know what
is good for us, and despise sublunary vanities.'

'But you will go, Guy,' said Laura; 'Philip is really going.'

'In spite of Lord Kilcoran's folly in going to such an expense as either taking Allonby or
giving the ball,' said Charles.

'I don't think it is my business to bring Lord Kilcoran to a sense of his folly,' said Philip.
'I made all my protests to Maurice when first he started the notion, but if his father chose
to take the matter up, it is no concern of mine.'

'You will understand, Guy,' said Charles, 'that this ball is specially got up by Maurice for
Laura's benefit.'

'Believe as little as you please of that speech, Guy,' said Laura; 'the truth is that Lord
Kilcoran is very good-natured, and Eveleen was very much shocked to hear that Amy had never
been to any ball, and I to only one, and so it ended in their giving one.'

'When is it to be?'

'On Thursday week,' said Amy. 'I wonder if you will think Eveleen as pretty as we do!'

'She is Laura's great friend, is not she?'

'I like her very much; I have known her all my life, and she has much more depth than those
would think who only know her manner.' And Laura looked pleadingly at Philip as she spoke.

'Are there any others of the family at home?' said Guy.

'The two younger girls, Mabel and Helen, and the little boys,' said Amy. 'Lord de Courcy is
in Ireland, and all the others are away.'

'Lord de Courcy is the wisest man of the family, and sets his face against absenteeism,' said
Philip, 'so he is never visible here.'

'But you aren't going to despise it, I hope, Guy,' said Amy, earnestly; 'it will be so delightful!
And what fun we shall have in teaching you to dance!'

Guy stretched himself, and gave a quaint grunt.

'Never mind, Guy,' said Philip, 'very little is required. You may easily pass in the crowd.
I never learnt.'

'Your ear will guide you,' said Laura.

'And no one can stay at home, since Mary Ross is going,' said Amy. 'Eveleen was always so fond
of her, that she came and forced a promise from her by telling her she should come with mamma,
and have no trouble.'

'You have not seen Allonby,' said Laura. 'There are such Vandykes, and among them, such a King
Charles!'

'Is not that the picture,' said Charles, 'before which Amy--'

'O don't, Charlie!'

'Was found dissolved in tears?'

'I could not help it,' murmured Amy, blushing crimson.

'There is all Charles's fate in his face,' said Philip,--'earnest, melancholy, beautiful! It
would stir the feelings--were it an unknown portrait. No, Amy, you need not be ashamed of your
tears.'

But Amy turned away, doubly ashamed.

'I hope it is not in the ball-room,' said Guy.

'No said Laura, 'it is in the library.'

Charlotte, whose absence had become perceptible from the general quietness, here ran up with
two envelopes, which she put into Guy's hands. One contained Lady Kilcoran's genuine card of
invitation for Sir Guy Morville, the other Charlotte had scribbled in haste for Mr. Bustle.

This put an end to all rationality. Guy rose with a growl and a roar, and hunted her over half
the field, till she was caught, and came back out of breath and screaming, 'We never had such
a haymaking!'

'So I think the haymakers will say!' answered her mother, rising to go indoors. 'What ruin
of haycocks!'

'Oh, I'll set all that to rights,' said Guy, seizing a hay-fork.

'Stop, stop, take care!' cried Charles. 'I don't want to be built up in the rick, and by and
by, when my disconsolate family have had all the ponds dragged for me, Deloraine will be heard
to complain that they give him very odd animal food.'

'Who could resist such a piteous appeal!' said Guy, helping him to rise, and conducting him
to his wheeled chair. The others followed, and when, shortly after, Laura looked out at her
window, she saw Guy, with his coat off, toiling like a real haymaker, to build up the cocks
in all their neat fairness and height, whistling meantime the 'Queen of the May,' and now and
then singing a line. She watched the old cowman come up, touching his hat, and looking less
cross than usual; she saw Guy's ready greeting, and perceived they were comparing the forks
and rakes, the pooks and cocks of their counties; and, finally, she beheld her father ride
into the field, and Guy spring to meet him.

No one could have so returned to what was in effect a home, unless his time had been properly
spent; and, in fact, all that Mr. Edmonstone or Philip could hear of him, was so satisfactory,
that Philip pronounced that the first stage of the trial had been passed irreproachably, and
Laura felt and looked delighted at this sanction to the high estimation in which she held him.

His own account of himself to Mrs. Edmonstone would not have been equally satisfactory if she
had not had something else to check it with. It was given by degrees, and at many different
times, chiefly as they walked round the garden in the twilight of the summer evenings, talking
over the many subjects mentioned in the letters which had passed constantly. It seemed as if
there were very few to whom Guy would ever give his confidence; but that once bestowed, it
was with hardly any reserve, and that was his great relief and satisfaction to pour out his
whole mind, where he was sure of sympathy.

To her, then, he confided how much provoked he was with himself, his 'first term,' he said,
'having only shown him what an intolerable fool he had to keep in order.' By his account, he
could do nothing 'without turning his own head, except study, and that stupefied it.' 'Never
was there a more idle fellow; he could work himself for a given time, but his sense would not
second him; and was it not most absurd in him to take so little pleasure in what was his duty,
and enjoy only what was bad for him?'

He had tried boating, but it had distracted him from his work; so he had been obliged to give
it up, and had done so in a hasty vehement manner, which had caused offence, and for which
he blamed himself. It had been the same with other things, till he had left himself no regular
recreation but walking and music. 'The last,' he said, 'might engross him in the same way;
but he thought (here he hesitated a little) there were higher ends for music, which made it
come under Mrs. Edmonstone's rule, of a thing to be used guardedly, not disused.' He had resumed
light reading, too, which he had nearly discontinued before he went to Oxford. 'One wants something,'
he said, 'by way of refreshment, where there is no sea nor rock to look at, and no Laura and
Amy to talk to.'

He had made one friend, a scholar of his own college, of the name of Wellwood. This name had
been his attraction; Guy was bent on friendship with him; if, as he tried to make him out to
be, he was the son of that Captain Wellwood whose death had weighed so heavily on his grandfather's
conscience, feeling almost as if it were his duty to ask forgiveness in his grandfather's name,
yet scarcely knowing how to venture on advances to one to whom his name had such associations.
However, they had gradually drawn together, and at length entered on the subject, and Guy then
found he was the nephew, not the son of Captain Wellwood; indeed, his former belief was founded
on a miscalculation, as the duel had taken place twenty-eight years ago. He now heard all his
grandfather had wished to know of the family. There were two unmarried daughters, and their
cousin spoke in the highest terms of their self-devoted life, promising what Guy much wished,
that they should hear what deep repentance had followed the crime which had made them fatherless.
He was to be a clergyman, and Guy admired him extremely, saying, however, that he was so shy
and retiring, it was hard to know him well.

From not having been at school, and from other causes, Guy had made few acquaintance; indeed,
he amused Mrs. Edmonstone by fearing he had been morose. She was ready to tell him he was an
ingenious self-tormentor; but she saw that the struggle to do right was the main spring of
the happiness that beamed round him, in spite of his self-reproach, heart-felt as it was. She
doubted whether persons more contented with themselves were as truly joyous, and was convinced
that, while thus combating lesser temptations, the very shadow of what are generally alone
considered as real temptations would hardly come near him.

If it had not been for these talks, and now and then a thoughtful look, she would have believed
him one of the most light-hearted and merriest of beings. He was more full of glee and high
spirits than she had ever seen him; he seemed to fill the whole house with mirth, and keep
every one alive by his fun and frolic, as blithe and untiring as Maurice de Courcy himself,
though not so wild.

Very pleasant were those summer days--reading, walking, music, gardening. Did not they all
work like very labourers at the new arbour in the midst of the laurels, where Charles might
sit and see the spires of Broadstone? Work they did, indeed! Charles looking on from his wheeled
chair, laughing to see Guy sawing as if for his living and Amy hammering gallantly, and Laura
weaving osiers, and Charlotte flying about with messages.

One day, they were startled by an exclamation from Charles. 'Ah, ha! Paddy, is that you?' and
beheld the tall figure of a girl, advancing with a rapid, springing step, holding up her riding
habit with one hand, with the other whisking her coral-handled whip. There was something distinguished
in her air, and her features, though less fine than Laura's, were very pretty, by the help
of laughing dark blue eyes, and very black hair, under her broad hat and little waving feather.
She threatened Charles with her whip, calling out--'Aunt Edmonstone said I should find you
here. What is the fun now?'

'Arbour building,' said Charles; 'don't you see the head carpenter!'

'Sir Guy?' whispered she to Laura, looking up at him, where he was mounted on the roof, thatching
it with reed, the sunshine full on his glowing face and white shirt sleeves.

'Here!' said Charles, as Guy swung himself down with a bound, his face much redder than sun
and work had already made it, 'here's another wild Irisher for you.'

'Sir Guy Morville--Lady Eveleen de Courcy,' began Laura; but Lady Eveleen cut her short, frankly
holding out her hand, and saying, 'You are almost a cousin, you know. Oh, don't leave off.
Do give me something to do. That hammer, Amy, pray--Laura, don't you remember how dearly I
always loved hammering?'

'How did you come?' said Laura.

'With papa--'tis his visit to Sir Guy. 'No, don't go,' as Guy began to look for his coat; 'he
is only impending. He is gone on to Broadstone, but he dropped me here, and will pick me up
on his way back. Can't you give me something to do on the top of that ladder? I should like
it mightily; it looks so cool and airy.'

'How can you, Eva?' whispered Laura, reprovingly; but Lady Eveleen only shook her head at her,
and declaring she saw a dangerous nail sticking out, began to hammer it in with such good will,
that Charles stopped his ears, and told her it was worse than her tongue. 'Go on about the
ball, do.'

'Oh,' said she earnestly, 'do you think there is any hope of Captain Morville's coming?'

'Oh yes,' said Laura.

'I am so glad! That is what papa is gone to Broadstone about. Maurice said he had given him
such a lecture, that he would not be the one to think of asking him, and papa must do it himself;
for if he sets his face against it, it will spoil it all.'

'You may make your mind easy,' said Charles, 'the captain is lenient, and looks on the ball
as a mere development of Irish nature. He has been consoling Guy on the difficulties of dancing.'

'Can't you dance?' said Lady Eveleen, looking at him with compassion.

'Such is my melancholy ignorance,' said Guy.

'We have been talking of teaching him,' said Laura.

'Talk! will that do it?' cried Lady Eveleen, springing up. 'We will begin this moment. Come
out on the lawn. Here, Charles,' wheeling him along, 'No, thank you, I like it,' as Guy was
going to help her. 'There, Charles, be fiddler go on, tum-tum, tee! that'll do. Amy, Laura,
be ladies. I'm the other gentleman,' and she stuck on her hat in military style, giving it
a cock. She actually set them quadrilling in spite of adverse circumstances, dancing better,
in her habit, than most people without one, till Lord Kilcoran arrived.

While he was making his visit, she walked a little apart, arm-in-arm with Laura. 'I like him
very much,' she said; 'he looks up to anything. I had heard so much of his steadiness, that
it is a great relief to my mind to see him so unlike his cousin.'

'Eveleen!'

'No disparagement to the captain, only I am so dreadfully afraid of him. I am sure he thinks
me such an unmitigated goose. Now, doesn't he?'

'If you would but take the right way to make him think otherwise, dear Eva, and show the sense
you really have.'

'That is just what my fear of him won't let me do. I would not for the world let him guess
it, so there is nothing for it but sauciness to cover one's weakness. I can't be sensible with
those that won't give me credit for it. But you'll mind and teach Sir Guy to dance; he has
so much spring in him, he deserves to be an Irishman.'

In compliance with this injunction, there used to be a clearance every evening; Charles turned
into the bay window out of the way, Mrs. Edmonstone at the piano, and the rest figuring away,
the partnerless one, called 'puss in the corner', being generally Amabel, while Charlotte,
disdaining them all the time, used to try to make them imitate her dancing-master's graces,
causing her father to perform such caricatures of them, as to overpower all with laughing.

Mr. Edmonstone was half Irish. His mother, Lady Mabel Edmonstone, had never thoroughly taken
root in England, and on his marriage, had gone with her daughter to live near her old home
in Ireland. The present Earl of Kilcoran was her nephew, and a very close intercourse had always
been kept up between the families, Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone being adopted by their younger cousins
as uncle and aunt, and always so called.

The house at Allonby was in such confusion, that the family there expected to dine nowhere
on the day of the ball, and the Hollywell party thought it prudent to secure their dinner at
home, with Philip and Mary Ross, who were to go with them.

By special desire, Philip wore his uniform; and while the sisters were dressing Charlotte gave
him a thorough examination, which led to a talk between him and Mary on accoutrements and weapons
in general; but while deep in some points of chivalrous armour, Mary's waist was pinched by
two mischievous hands, and a little fluttering white figure danced around her.

'O Amy! what do you want with me?'

'Come and be trimmed up,' said Amy.

'I thought you told me I was to have no trouble. I am dressed,' said Mary, looking complacently
at her full folds of white muslin.

'No more you shall; but you promised to do as you were told.' And Amy fluttered away with her.

'Do you remember,' said Philip, 'the comparison of Rose Flammock dragging off her father, to
a little carved cherub trying to uplift a solid monumental hero?'

'O, I must tell Mary!' cried Charlotte; but Philip stopped her, with orders not to be a silly
child.

'It is a pity Amy should not have her share,' said Charles.

'The comparison to a Dutch cherub?' asked Guy.

'She is more after the pattern of the little things on little wings, in your blotting-book,'
said Charles; 'certain lines in the predicament of the cherubs of painters--heads "et proeterea
nihil".'

'O Guy, do you write verses? cried Charlotte.

'Some nonsense,' muttered Guy, out of countenance; 'I thought I had made away with that rubbish;
where is it?'

'In the blotting-book in my room,' said Charles. 'I must explain that the book is my property,
and was put into your room when mamma was beautifying it for you, as new and strange company.
On its return to me, at your departure, I discovered a great accession of blots and sailing
vessels, beside the aforesaid little things.'

'I shall resume my own property,' said Guy, departing in haste.

Charlotte ran after him, to beg for a sight of it; and Philip asked Charles what it was like.

'A romantic incident,' said Charles, 'just fit for a novel. A Petrarch leaving his poems about
in blotting-books.'

Charles used the word Petrarch to stand for a poet, not thinking what lady's name he suggested;
and he was surprised at the severity of Philip's tone as he inquired, 'Do you mean anything,
or do you not?'

Perceiving with delight that he had perplexed and teased, he rejoiced in keeping up the mystery:

'Eh? is it a tender subject with you, too?'

Philip rose, and standing over him, said, in a low but impressive tone:

'I cannot tell whether you are trifling or not; but you are no boy now, and can surely see
that this is no subject to be played with. If you are concealing anything you have discovered,
you have a great deal to answer for. I can hardly imagine anything more unfortunate than that
he should become attached to either of your sisters.'

'Et pourquoi?' asked Charles, coolly.

'I see,' said Philip, retreating to his chair, and speaking with great composure, 'I did you
injustice by speaking seriously.' Then, as his uncle came into the room, he asked some indifferent
question, without betraying a shade of annoyance.

Charles meanwhile congratulated himself on his valour in keeping his counsel, in spite of so
tall a man in scarlet; but he was much nettled at the last speech, for if a real attachment
to his sister had been in question, he would never have trifled about it. Keenly alive to his
cousin's injustice, he rejoiced in having provoked and mystified the impassable, though he
little knew the storm he had raised beneath that serene exterior of perfect self-command.

The carriages were announced, and Mr. Edmonstone began to call the ladies, adding tenfold to
the confusion in the dressing-room. There was Laura being completed by the lady's maid, Amabel
embellishing Mary, Mrs. Edmonstone with her arm loaded with shawls, Charlotte flourishing about.
Poor Mary--it was much against her will--but she had no heart to refuse the wreath of geraniums
that Amy's own hands had woven for her; and there she sat, passive as a doll, though in despair
at their all waiting for her. For Laura's toilette was finished, and every one began dressing
her at once; while Charlotte, to make it better, screamed over the balusters that all were
ready but Mary. Sir Guy was heard playing the 'Harmonious Blacksmith,' and Captain Morville's
step was heard, fast and firm. At last, when a long chain was put round her neck, she cried
out, 'I have submitted to everything so far; I can bear no more!' jumped up, caught hold of
her shawl, and was putting it on, when there was a general outcry that they must exhibit themselves
to Charles.

They all ran down, and Amy, flying up to her brother, made a splendid sweeping curtsey, and
twirled round in a pirouette.

'Got up, regardless of expense!' cried Charles; 'display yourselves.'

The young ladies ranged themselves in imitation of the book of fashions. The sisters were in
white, with wreaths of starry jessamine. It was particularly becoming to Laura's bella-donna
lily complexion, rich brown curls, and classical features, and her brother exclaimed:

'Laura is exactly like Apollo playing the lyre, outside mamma's old manuscript book of music.'

'Has not Amy made beautiful wreaths?' said Laura. 'She stripped the tree, and Guy had to fetch
the ladder, to gather the sprays on the top of the wall.'

'Do you see your bit of myrtle, Guy,' said Amy, pointing to it, on Laura's head, 'that you
tried to persuade me would pass for jessamine?'

'Ah! it should have been all myrtle,' said Guy.

Philip leant meantime against the door. Laura only once glanced towards him, thinking all this
too trifling for him, and never imagining the intense interest with which he gave a meaning
to each word and look.

'Well done, Mary!' cried Charles, 'they have furbished you up handsomely.'

Mary made a face, and said she should wonder who was the fashionable young lady she should
meet in the pier-glasses at Allonby. Then Mr. Edmonstone hurried them away, and they arrived
in due time.

The saloon at Allonby was a beautiful room, one end opening into a conservatory, full of coloured
lamps, fresh green leaves, and hot-house plants. There they found as yet only the home party,
the good-natured, merry Lord Kilcoran, his quiet English wife, who had bad health, and looked
hardly equal to the confusion of the evening; Maurice, and two younger boys; Eveleen, and her
two little sisters, Mabel and Helen.

'This makes it hard on Charlotte,' thought Amy, while the two girls dragged her off to show
her the lamps in the conservatory; and the rest attacked Mrs. Edmonstone for not having brought
Charlotte, reproaching her with hardness of heart of which they had never believed her capable--Lady
Eveleen, in especial, talking with that exaggeration of her ordinary manner which her dread
of Captain Morville made her assume. Little he recked of her; he was absorbed in observing
how far Laura's conduct coincided with Charles's hints. On the first opportunity, he asked
her to dance, and was satisfied with her pleased acquiescence; but the next moment Guy came
up, and in an eager manner made the same request.

'I am engaged,' said she, with a bright, proud glance at Philip; and Guy pursued Amabel into
the conservatory, where he met with better success. Mr. Edmonstone gallantly asked Mary if
he was too old a partner, and was soon dancing with the step and spring that had once made
him the best dancer in the county.

Mrs. Edmonstone watched her flock, proud and pleased, thinking how well they looked and that,
in especial, she had never been sensible how much Laura's and Philip's good looks excelled
the rest of the world. They were much alike in the remarkable symmetry both of figure and feature,
the colour of the deep blue eye, and fairness of complexion.

'It is curious,' thought Mrs. Edmonstone, 'that, so very handsome as Philip is, it is never
the first thing remarked about him, just as his height never is observed till he is compared
with other people. The fact is, that his superior sense carries off a degree of beauty which
would be a misfortune to most men. It is that sedate expression and distinguished air that
make the impression. How happy Laura looks, how gracefully she moves. No, it is not being foolish
to think no one equal to Laura. My other pair!' and she smiled much more; 'you happy young
things, I would not wish to see anything pleasanter than your merry faces. Little Amy looks
almost as pretty as Laura, now she is lighted up by blush and smile, and her dancing is very
nice, it is just like her laughing, so quiet, and yet so full of glee. I don't think she is
less graceful than her sister, but the complete enjoyment strikes one more. And as to enjoyment--there
are those bright eyes of her partner's perfectly sparkling with delight; he looks as if it
was a world of enchantment to him. Never had any one a greater capacity for happiness than Guy.'

Mrs. Edmonstone might well retain her opinion when, after the quadrille, Guy came to tell her
that he had never seen anything so delightful; and he entertained Mary Ross with his fresh,
joyous pleasure, through the next dance.

'Laura,' whispered Eveleen, 'I've one ambition. Do you guess it? Don't tell him; but if he
would, I should have a better opinion of myself ever after. I'm afraid he'll depreciate me
to his friend; and really with Mr. Thorndale, I was no more foolish than a ball requires.'

Lady Eveleen hoped in vain. Captain Morville danced with little Lady Helen, a child of eleven,
who was enchanted at having so tall a partner; then, after standing still for some time, chose
his cousin Amabel.

'You are a good partner and neighbour,' said he, giving her his arm, 'you don't want young
lady talk.'

'Should you not have asked Mary? She has been sitting down this long time.'

'Do you think she cares for such a sport as dancing?'

Amy made no answer.

'You have been well off. You were dancing with Thorndale just now.'

'Yes. It was refreshing to have an old acquaintance among so many strangers. And he is so delighted
with Eveleen; but what is more, Philip, that Mr. Vernon, who is dancing with Laura, told Maurice
he thought her the prettiest and most elegant person here.'

'Laura might have higher praise,' said Philip, 'for hers is beauty of countenance even more
than of feature. If only--'

'If?' said Amy.

'Look round, Amy, and you will see many a face which speaks of intellect wasted, or, if cultivated,
turned aside from its true purpose, like the double blossom, which bears leaves alone.'

'Ah! you forget you are talking to silly little Amy. I can't see all that. I had rather think
people as happy and good as they look.'

'Keep your child-like temper as long as you can--all your life,' perhaps, for this is one of
the points where it is folly to be wise.'

'Then you only meant things in general? Nothing about Laura?'

'Things in general,' repeated Philip; 'bright promises blighted or thrown away--'

But he spoke absently, and his eye was following Laura. Amy thought he was thinking of his
sister, and was sorry for him. He spoke no more, but she did not regret it, for she could not
moralize in such a scene, and the sight and the dancing were pleasure enough.

Guy, in the meantime, had met an Oxford acquaintance, who introduced him to his sisters--pretty
girls--whose father Mr. Edmonstone knew, but who was rather out of the Hollywell visiting distance.
They fell into conversation quickly, and the Miss Alstons asked him with some interest, 'Which
was the pretty Miss Edmonstone?' Guy looked for the sisters, as if to make up his mind, for
the fact was, that when he first knew Laura and Amy, the idea of criticising beauty had not
entered his mind, and to compare them was quite a new notion. 'Nay,' said he at last, 'if you
cannot discover for yourselves when they are both before your eyes, I will do nothing so invidious
as to say which is the pretty one. I'll tell which is the eldest and which the youngest, but
the rest you must decide for yourself.'

'I should like to know them,' said Miss Alston. 'Oh! they are both very nice-looking girls.'

'There, that is Laura--Miss Edmonstone,' said Guy, 'that tall young lady, with the beautiful
hair and jessamine wreath.'

He spoke as if he was proud of her, and had a property in her. The tone did not escape Philip,
who at that moment was close to them, with Amy on his arm; and, knowing the Alstons slightly,
stopped and spoke, and introduced his cousin, Miss Amabel Edmonstone. At the same time Guy
took one of the Miss Alstons away to get some tea.

'So you knew my cousin at Oxford?' said Philip, to the brother.

'Yes, slightly. What an amusing fellow he is!'

'There is something very bright, very unlike other people about him,' said Miss Alston.

'How does he get on? Is he liked?'

'Why, yes, I should say so, on the whole; but it is rather as my sister says, he is not like
other people.'

'In what respect?'

'Oh I can hardly tell. He is a very pleasant person, but he ought to have been at school. He
is a man of crotchets.'

'Hard-working?'

'Very; he makes everything give way to that. He is a capital companion when he is to be had,
but he lives very much to himself. He is a man of one friend, and I don't see much of him.'

Another dance began, Mr. Alston went to look for his partner, Philip and Amy moved on in search
of ice. 'Hum!' said Philip to himself, causing Amy to gaze up at him, but he was musing too
intently for her to venture on a remark. She was thinking that she did not wonder that strangers
deemed Guy crotchety, since he was so difficult to understand; and then she considered whether
to take him to see King Charles, in the library, and concluded that she would wait, for she
felt as if the martyr king's face would look on her too gravely to suit her present tone.

Philip helped her to ice, and brought her back to her mother's neighbourhood without many more
words. He then stood thoughtful for some time, entered into conversation with one of the elder
gentlemen, and, when that was interrupted, turned to talk to his aunt.

Lady Eveleen and her two cousins were for a moment together. 'What is the matter, Eva?' said
Amy, seeing a sort of dissatisfaction on her bright face.

'The roc's egg?' said Laura, smiling. 'The queen of the evening can't be content--'

'No; you are the queen, if the one thing can make you so--the one thing wanting to me.'

'How absurd you are, Eva--when you say you are so afraid of him, too.'

'That is the very reason. I should get a better opinion of myself! Besides, there is nobody
else so handsome. I declare I'll make a bold attempt.'

'Oh! you don't think of such a thing,' cried Laura, very much shocked.

'Never fear,' said Eveleen, 'faint heart, you know.' And with a nod, a flourish, of her bouquet,
and an arch smile at her cousin's horror, she moved on, and presently they heard her exclaiming,
gaily, 'Captain Morville, I really must scold you. You are setting a shocking example of laziness!
Aunt Edmonstone, how can you encourage such proceedings! Indolence is the parent of vice, you
know.'

Philip smiled just as much as the occasion required, and answered, 'I beg your pardon, I had
forgotten my duty. I'll attend to my business better in future.' And turning to a small, shy
damsel, who seldom met with a partner, he asked her to dance. Eveleen came back to Laura with
a droll disappointed gesture. 'Insult to injury,' said she, disconsolately.

'Of course,' said Amy, 'he could not have thought you wanted to dance with him, or you would
not have gone to stir him up.'

'Well, then, he was very obtuse.'

'Besides, you are engaged.'

'O yes, to Mr. Thorndale! But who would be content with the squire when the knight disdains her?'

Mr. Thorndale came to claim Eveleen at that moment. It was the second time she had danced with
him, and it did not pass unobserved by Philip, nor the long walk up and down after the dance
was over. At length his friend came up to him and said something warm in admiration of her.
'She is very Irish,' was Philip's answer, with a cold smile, and Mr. Thorndale stood uncomfortable
under the disapprobation, attracted by Eveleen's beauty and grace, yet so unused to trust his
own judgment apart from 'Morville's,' as to be in an instant doubtful whether he really admired
or not.

'You have not been dancing with her?' he said, presently.

'No: she attracts too many to need the attention of a nobody like myself.'

That 'too many,' seeming to confound him with the vulgar herd, made Mr. Thorndale heartily
ashamed of having been pleased with her.

Philip was easy about him for the present, satisfied that admiration had been checked, which,
if it had been allowed to grow into an attachment, would have been very undesirable.

The suspicions Charles had excited were so full in Philip's mind, however, that he could not
as easily set it at rest respecting his cousin. Guy had three times asked her to dance, but
each time she had been engaged. At last, just as the clock struck the hour at which the carriage
had been ordered, he came up, and impetuously claimed her. 'One quadrille we must have, Laura,
if you are not tired?'

'No! Oh, no! I could dance till this time to-morrow.'

'We ought to be going,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'O pray, Mrs. Edmonstone, this one more,' cried Guy, eagerly. 'Laura owes me this one.'

'Yes, this one more, mamma,' said Laura, and they went off together, while Philip remained,
in a reverie, till requested by his aunt to see if the carriage was ready.

The dance was over, the carriage was waiting, but Guy and Laura did not appear till, after
two or three minutes spent in wonder and inquiries, they came quietly walking back from the
library, where they had been looking at King Charles.

All the way home the four ladies in the carriage never ceased laughing and talking. The three
gentlemen in theirs acted diversely. Mr. Edmonstone went to sleep, Philip sat in silent thought,
Guy whistled and hummed the tunes, and moved his foot very much as if he was still dancing.

They met for a moment, and parted again in the hall at Hollywell, where the daylight was striving
to get in through the closed shutters. Philip went on to Broadstone, Guy said he could not
go to bed by daylight, called Bustle, and went to the river to bathe, and the rest crept upstairs
to their rooms. And so ended Lord Kilcoran's ball.

CHAPTER 8

     Like Alexander, I will reign,
     And I will reign alone,
     My thoughts shall ever more disdain
     A rival near my throne.
     But I must rule and govern still,
     And always give the law,
     And have each subject at my will,
     And all to stand in awe.
                         --MONTROSE.

One very hot afternoon, shortly after the ball, Captain Morville walked to Hollywell, accelerating
his pace under the influence of anxious reflections.

He could not determine whether Charles had spoken in jest; but in spite of Guy's extreme youth,
he feared there was ground for the suspicion excited by the hint, and was persuaded that such
an attachment could produce nothing but unhappiness to his cousin, considering how little confidence
could be placed in Guy. He perceived that there was much to inspire affection--attractive qualities,
amiable disposition, the talent for music, and now this recently discovered power of versifying,
all were in Guy's favour, besides the ancient name and long ancestry, which conferred a romantic
interest, and caused even Philip to look up to him with a feudal feeling as head of the family.
There was also the familiar intercourse to increase the danger; and Philip, as he reflected
on these things, trembled for Laura, and felt himself her only protector; for his uncle was
nobody, Mrs. Edmonstone was infatuated, and Charles would not listen to reason. To make everything
worse, he had that morning heard that there was to be a grand inspection of the regiment, and
a presentation of colours; Colonel Deane was very anxious; and it was plain that in the interval
the officers would be allowed little leisure. The whole affair was to end with a ball, which
would lead to a repetition of what had already disturbed him.

Thus meditating, Philip, heated and dusty, walked into the smooth green enclosure of Hollywell.
Everything, save the dancing clouds of insect youth which whirled in his face, was drooping
in the heat. The house--every door and window opened--seemed gasping for breath; the cows sought
refuge in the shade; the pony drooped its head drowsily; the leaves hung wearily; the flowers
were faint and thirsty; and Bustle was stretched on the stone steps, mouth open, tongue out,
only his tail now and then moving, till he put back his ears and crested his head to greet
the arrival. Philip heard the sounds that had caused the motion of the sympathizing tail--the
rich tones of Guy's voice. Stepping over the dog, he entered, and heard more clearly--

          'Two loving hearts may sever,
           For sorrow fails them never.'

And then another voice--

          'Who knows not love in sorrow's night,
           He knows not love in light.'

In the drawing-room, cool and comfortable in the green shade of the Venetian blinds of the
bay window, stood Laura, leaning on the piano, close to Guy, who sat on the music-stool, looking
thoroughly at home in his brown shooting-coat, and loosely-tied handkerchief.

Any one but Philip would have been out of temper, but he shook hands as cordially as usual,
and would not even be the first to remark on the heat.

Laura told him he looked hot and tired, and invited him to come out to the others, and cool
himself on the lawn. She went for her parasol, Guy ran for her camp stool, and Philip, going
to the piano, read what they had been singing. The lines were in Laura's writing, corrected,
here and there, in Guy's hand.

           BE STEADFAST.

           Two loving hearts may sever,
           Yet love shall fail them never.
           Love brightest beams in sorrow's night,
           Love is of life the light.

           Two loving hearts may sever,
           Yet hope shall fail them never.
           Hope is a star in sorrow's night,
           Forget-me-not of light.

           Two loving hearts may sever,
           Yet faith may fail them never.
           Trust on through sorrow's night,
           Faith is of love and hope the light.

           Two loving hearts may sever,
           For sorrow fails them never.
           Who knows not love in sorrow's night,
           He knows not love in light.

Philip was by no means pleased. However, it was in anything but a sentimental manner that Guy,
looking over him, said, 'For sever, read, be separated, but "a" wouldn't rhyme.'

'I translated it into prose, and Guy made it verse,' said Laura; 'I hope you approve of our
performance.'

'It is that thing of Helmine von Chezy, "Beharre", is it not?' said Philip, particularly civil,
because he was so much annoyed. 'You have rendered the spirit very well', but you have sacrificed
a good deal to your double rhymes.'

'Yes; those last lines are not troubled with any equality of feet,' said Guy; 'but the repetition
is half the beauty. 'It does not see the star of trust. Why did you use that word "trust" only
once, Guy?'

'I did not want to lose the three--faith, hope, love,--faith keeping the other two alive.'

'My doubt was whether it was right to have that analogy.'

'Surely,' said Guy, eagerly, 'that analogy must be the best part of earthly love.'

Here Charlotte came to see if Guy and Laura meant to sing all the afternoon; and they went
out. They found the others in the arbour, and Charlotte's histories of its construction, gave
Philip little satisfaction. They next proceeded to talk over the ball.

'Ah!' said Philip, 'balls are the fashion just now. What do you say, Amy, [he was more inclined
to patronize her than any one else] to the gaieties we are going to provide for you?'

'You! Are you going to have your new colours? Oh! you are not going to give us a ball?'

'Well! that is fun!' cried Guy. 'What glory Maurice de Courcy must be in!'

'He is gone to Allonby,' said Philip, 'to announce it; saying, he must persuade his father
to put off their going to Brighton. Do you think he will succeed?'

'Hardly,' said Laura; 'poor Lady Kilcoran was so knocked up by their ball, that she is the
more in want of sea air. Oh, mamma, Eva must come and stay here.'

'That she must,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'that will make it easy. She is the only one who will
care about the ball.'

Philip was obliged to conceal his vexation, and to answer the many eager questions about the
arrangements. He stayed to dinner, and as the others went in-doors to dress, he lingered near
Charlotte, assuming, with some difficulty, an air of indifference, and said--'Well, Charlotte,
did you tease Guy into showing you those verses?'

'Oh yes,' said Charlotte, with what the French call "un air capable".'

'Well, what were they?'

'That I mustn't tell. They were very pretty; but I've promised.'

'Promised what?'

'Never to say anything about them. He made it a condition with me, and I assure you, I am to
be trusted.'

'Right,' said Philip; 'I'll ask no more.'

'It would be of no use,' said Charlotte, shaking her head, as if she wished he would prove
her further.

Philip was in hopes of being able to speak to Laura after dinner, but his uncle wanted him
to come and look over the plans of an estate adjoining Redclyffe, which there was some idea
of purchasing. Such an employment would in general have been congenial; but on this occasion,
it was only by a strong force that he could chain his attention, for Guy was pacing the terrace
with Laura and Amabel, and as they passed and repassed the window, he now and then caught sounds
of repeating poetry.

In this Guy excelled. He did not read aloud well; he was too rapid, and eyes and thoughts were
apt to travel still faster than the lips, thus producing a confusion; but no one could recite
better when a passage had taken strong hold of his imagination, and he gave it the full effect
of the modulations of his fine voice, conveying in its inflections the impressions which stirred
him profoundly. He was just now enchanted with his first reading of 'Thalaba,' where he found
all manner of deep meanings, to which the sisters listened with wonder and delight. He repeated,
in a low, awful, thrilling tone, that made Amy shudder, the lines in the seventh book, ending
with--

          "Who comes from the bridal chamber!
           It is Azrael, angel of death."'

'You have not been so taken up with any book since Sintram.' said Laura.

'It is like Sintram,' he replied.

'Like it?'

'So it seems to me. A strife with the powers of darkness; the victory, forgiveness, resignation,
death.

          "Thou know'st the secret wishes of my heart,
           Do with me as thou wilt, thy will is best."'

'I wish you would not speak as if you were Thalaba yourself,' said Amy, 'you bring the whole
Domdaniel round us.'

'I am afraid he is going to believe himself Thalaba as well as Sintram,' said Laura. 'But you
know Southey did not see all this himself, and did not understand it when it was pointed out.'

'Don't tell us that,' said Amy.

'Nay; I think there is something striking in it,' said Guy then, with a sudden transition,
'but is not this ball famous?'

And their talk was of balls and reviews till nine o'clock, when they were summoned to tea.

On the whole, Philip returned to Broadstone by no means comforted.

Never had he known so much difficulty in attending with patience to his duties as in the course
of the next fortnight. They became a greater durance, as he at length looked his feelings full
in the face, and became aware of their true nature.

He perceived that the loss of Laura would darken his whole existence; yet he thought that,
were he only secure of her happiness, he could have resigned her in silence. Guy was, however,
one of the last men in the world whom he could bear to see in possession of her; and probably
she was allowing herself to be entangled, if not in heart, at least in manner. If so, she should
not be unwarned. He had been her guide from childhood, and he would not fail her now.

Three days before the review, he succeeded in finding time for a walk to Hollywell, not fully
decided on the part he should act, though resolved on making some remonstrance. He was crossing
a stile, about a mile and a half from Hollywell, when he saw a lady sitting on the stump of
a tree, sketching, and found that fate had been so propitious as to send Laura thither alone.
The rest had gone to gather mushrooms on a down, and had left her sketching the view of the
spires of Broadstone, in the cleft between the high green hills. She was very glad to see him,
and held up her purple and olive washes to be criticised; but he did not pay much attention
to them. He was almost confused at the sudden manner in which the opportunity for speaking
had presented itself.

'It is a long time since I have seen you,' said he, at last.

'An unheard-of time.'

'Still longer since we have had any conversation.'

'I was just thinking so. Not since that hot hay-making, when Guy came home. Indeed, we have
had so much amusement lately that I have hardly had time for thought. Guy says we are all growing
dissipated.'

'Ah! your German, and dancing, and music, do not agree with thought.'

'Poor music!' said Laura, smiling. 'But I am ready for a lecture; I have been feeling more
like a butterfly than I like.'

'I know you think me unjust about music, and I freely confess that I cannot estimate the pleasure
it affords, but I doubt whether it is a safe pleasure. It forms common ground for persons who
would otherwise have little in common, and leads to intimacies which occasion results never
looked for.'

'Yes,' said Laura, receiving it as a general maxim.

'Laura, you complain of feeling like a butterfly. Is not that a sign that you were made for
better things?'

'But what can I do? I try to read early and at night, but I can't prevent the fun and gaiety;
and, indeed, I don't think I would. It is innocent, and we never had such a pleasant summer.
Charlie is so--so much more equable, and mamma is more easy about him, and I can't help thinking
it does them all good, though I do feel idle.'

'It is innocent, it is right for a little while,' said Philip; 'but your dissatisfaction proves
that you are superior to such things. Laura, what I fear is, that this summer holiday may entangle
you, and so fix your fate as to render your life no holiday. O Laura take care; know what you
are doing!'

'What am I doing?' asked Laura, with an alarmed look of ingenuous surprise.

Never had it been so hard to maintain his composure as now, when her simplicity forced him
to come to plainer terms. 'I must speak,' he continued, 'because no one else will. Have you
reflected whither this may tend? This music, this versifying, this admitting a stranger so
unreservedly into your pursuits?'

She understood now, and hung her head. He would have given worlds to judge of the face hidden
by her bonnet; but as she did not reply, he spoke on, his agitation becoming so strong, that
the struggle was perceptible in the forced calmness of his tone. 'I would not say a word if
he were worthy, but Laura--Laura, I have seen Locksley Hall acted once; do not let me see it
again in a way which--which would give me infinitely more pain.'

The faltering of his voice, so resolutely subdued, touched, her extremely, and a thrill of
exquisite pleasure glanced through her, on hearing confirmed what she had long felt, that she
had taken Margaret's place--nay, as she now learnt, that she was even more precious to him.
She only thought of reassuring him.

'No, you need never fear that. He has no such thought, I am sure.' She blushed deeply, but
looked in his face. 'He treats us both alike, besides, he is so young.'

'The mischief is not done,' said Philip, trying to resume his usual tone; 'I only meant to
speak in time. You might let your manner go too far; you might even allow your affections to
be involved without knowing it, if you were not on your guard.'

'Never!' said Laura. 'Oh, no; I could never dream of that with Guy. I like Guy very much; I
think better of him than you do; but oh no; he could never be my first and best; I could never
care for him in that way. How could you think so, Philip?'

'Laura, I cannot but look on you with what may seem over-solicitude. Since I lost Fanny, and
worse than lost Margaret, you have been my home; my first, my most precious interest. O Laura!'
and he did not even attempt to conceal the trembling and tenderness of his voice, 'could I
bear to lose you, to see you thrown away or changed--you, dearest, best of all?'

Laura did not turn away her head this time, but raising her beautiful face, glowing with such
a look as had never beamed there before, while tears rose to her eyes, she said, 'Don't speak
of my changing towards you. I never could; for if there is anything to care for in me, it is
you that have taught it to me.'

If ever face plainly told another that he was her first and best, Laura's did so now. Away
went misgivings, and he looked at her in happiness too great for speech, at least, he could
not speak till he had mastered his emotion, but his countenance was sufficient reply. Even
then, in the midst of this flood of ecstasy, came the thought, 'What have I done?'

He had gone further than he had ever intended. It was a positive avowal of love; and what would
ensue? Cessation of intercourse with her, endless vexations, the displeasure of her family,
loss of influence, contempt, and from Mr. Edmonstone, for the pretensions of a penniless soldier.
His joy was too great to be damped, but it was rendered cautious. 'Laura, my own!' (what delight
the words gave her,) 'you have made me very happy. We know each other now, and trust each other
for ever.'

'O yes, yes; nothing can alter what has grown up with us.'

'It is for ever!' repeated Philip. 'But, Laura, let us be content with our own knowledge of
what we are to each other. Do not let us call in others to see our happiness.'

Laura looked surprised, for she always considered any communication about his private feelings
too sacred to be repeated, and wondered he should think the injunction necessary. 'I never
can bear to talk about the best kinds of happiness,' said she; 'but oh!' and she sprang up,
'here they come.'

Poor Mrs. Edmonstone, as she walked back from her mushroom-field, she little guessed that words
had been spoken which would give the colouring to her daughter's whole life--she little guessed
that her much-loved and esteemed nephew had betrayed her confidence! As she and the girls came
up, Philip advanced to meet them, that Laura might have a few moments to recover, while with
an effort he kept himself from appearing absent in the conversation that ensued. It was brief,
for having answered some questions with regard to the doings on the important day, he said,
that since he had met them he would not come on to Hollywell, and bade them farewell, giving
Laura a pressure of the hand which renewed the glow on her face.

He walked back, trying to look through the dazzling haze of joy so as to see his situation
clearly. It was impossible for him not to perceive that there had been an absolute declaration
of affection, and that he had established a private understanding with his cousin. It was not,
however, an engagement, nor did he at present desire to make it so. It was impossible for him
as yet to marry, and he was content to wait without a promise, since that could not add to
his entire reliance on Laura. He could not bear to be rejected by her parents: he knew his
poverty would be the sole ground of objection, and he was not asking her to share it. He believed
sincerely that a long, lingering attachment to himself would be more for her good than a marriage
with one who would have been a high prize for worldly aims, and was satisfied that by winning
her heart he had taken the only sure means of securing her from becoming attached to Guy, while
secrecy was the only way of preserving his intercourse with her on the same footing, and exerting
his influence over the family.

It was calmly reflected, for Philip's love was tranquil, though deep and steady, and the rather
sought to preserve Laura as she was than to make her anything more; and this very calmness
contributed to his self-deception on this first occasion that he had ever actually swerved
from the path of right.

With an uncomfortable sensation, he met Guy riding home from his tutor, entirely unsuspicious.
He stopped and talked of the preparations at Broadstone, where he had been over the ground
with Maurice de Courcy, and had heard the band.

'What did you think of it? said Philip, absently.

'They should keep better time! Really, Philip, there is one fellow with a bugle that ought
to be flogged every day of his life!' said Guy, making a droll, excruciated face.

How a few words can change the whole current of ideas. The band was connected with Philip,
therefore he could not bear to hear it found fault with, and adduced some one's opinion that
the man in question was one of the best of their musicians.

Guy could not help shrugging his shoulders, as he laughed, and said,--'Then I shall be obliged
to take to my heels if I meet the rest. Good-bye.'

'How conceited they have made that boy about his fine ear,' thought Philip. The others were
laughing and talking round her, but all seemed lost in the transcendent beam that had shone
out on her. To be told by Philip that she was all to him that he had always been to her! This
one idea pervaded her--too glorious, too happy for utterance, almost for distinct thought.
The softening of his voice, and the look with which he had regarded her, recurred again and
again, startling her with a sudden surprise of joy almost as at the first moment. Of the future
Laura thought not. Never had a promise of love been made with less knowledge of what it amounted
to: it seemed merely an expression of sentiments that she had never been without; for had she
not always looked up to Philip more than any other living creature, and gloried in being his
favourite cousin? Ever since the time when he explained to her the plates in the Encyclopaedia,
and made her read 'Joyce's Scientific Dialogues,' when Amy took fright at the first page. That
this might lead further did not occur to her; she was eighteen, she had no experience, not
even in novels, she did not know what she had done; and above all, she had so leant to surrender
her opinions to Philip, and to believe him always right, that she would never have dreamt of
questioning wherever he might choose to lead her. Even the caution of secrecy did not alarm
her, though she wondered that he thought it required, safe as his confidence always was with
her. Mrs. Edmonstone had been so much occupied by Charles's illness, as to have been unable
to attend to her daughters in their girlish days; and in the governess's time the habit had
been disused of flying at once to her with every joy or grief. Laura's thoughts were not easy
of access, and Philip had long been all in all to her. She was too ignorant of life to perceive
that it was her duty to make this conversation known; or, more truly, she did not awaken her
mind to consider that anything could be wrong that Philip desired.

On coming home, she ran up to her own room, and sitting by the open window, gave herself up
to that delicious dream of new-found joy.

There she still sat when Amy came in, opening the door softly, and treading lightly and airily
as she entered, bringing two or three roses of different tints.

'Laura! not begun to dress?'

'Is it time?'

'Shall I answer you according to what Philip calls my note of time, and tell you the pimpernels
are closed, and the tigridias dropping their leaves? It would be a proper answer for you; you
look as if you were in Fairy Land.'

'Is papa come home?'

'Long ago! and Guy too. Why, where could you have been, not to have heard Guy and Eveleen singing
the Irish melodies?'

'In a trance,' said Laura, starting up, and laughing, with a slight degree of constraint, which
caused Amy, who was helping her to dress, to exclaim, 'Has anything happened, Laura?'

'What should have happened?'

'I can't guess, unless the fairies in the great ring on Ashendown came to visit you when we
were gone. But seriously, dear Laura, are you sure you are not tired? Is nothing the matter?'

'Nothing at all, thank you. I was only thinking over the talk I had with Philip.'

'Oh!'

Amy never thought of entering into Philip's talks with Laura, and was perfectly satisfied.

By this time Laura was herself again, come back to common life, and resolved to watch over
her intercourse with Guy; since, though she was convinced that all was safe at present, she
had Philip's word for it that there might be danger in continuing the pleasant freedom of their
behaviour.

Nothing could be more reassuring than Guy's demeanour. His head seemed entirely full of the
Thursday, and of a plan of his own for enabling Charles to go to the review. It had darted
into his head while he was going over the ground with Maurice. It was so long since Charles
had thought it possible to attempt any amusement away from home, and former experiments had
been so unsuccessful, that it had never even occurred to him to think of it; but he caught
at the idea with great delight and eagerness. Mrs. Edmonstone seemed not to know what to say;
she had much rather that it had not been proposed; yet it was very kind of Guy, and Charles
was so anxious about it that she knew not how to oppose him.

She could not bear to have Charles in a crowd, helpless as he was; and she had an unpleasing
remembrance of the last occasion when they had taken him to a flower-show, where they had lost,
first Mr. Edmonstone, next the carriage, and lastly, Amy and Charlotte--all had been frightened,
and Charles laid up for three days from the fatigue.

Answers, however, met each objection. Charles was much stronger; Guy's arm would be ready for
him; Guy would find the carriage. Philip would be there to help, besides Maurice; and whenever
Charles was tired, Guy would take him home at once, without spoiling any one's pleasure.

'Except your own,' said Mrs. Edmonstone.

'Thank you; but this would be so delightful.'

'Ah!' said Charles, 'it would be as great a triumph as the dog's that caught the hare with
the clog round his neck--the dog's, I mean.'

'If you will but trust me with him,' said Guy, turning on her all the pleading eloquence of
his eyes, 'you know he can get in and out of the pony-carriage quite easily.'

'As well as walk across the room,' said Charles.

'I would drive him in it, and tell William to ride in and be at hand to hold the pony or take
it out; and the tent is so near, that you could get to the breakfast, unless the review had
been enough for you. I paced the distance to make sure, and it is no further than from the
garden-door to the cherry-tree.'

'That is nothing,' said Charles.

'And William shall be in waiting to bring the pony the instant you are ready, and we can go
home independently of every one else.'

'I thought,' interposed Mrs. Edmonstone, 'that you were to go to the mess-dinner--what is to
become of that?'

'O,' said Charles, 'that will be simply a bore, and he may rejoice to be excused from going
the whole hog.'

'To be sure, I had rather dine in peace at home.'

Mrs. Edmonstone was not happy, but she had great confidence in Guy; and her only real scruple
was, that she did not think it fair to occupy him entirely with attendance on her son. She
referred it to papa, which, as every one knew, was the same as yielding the point, and consoled
herself by the certainty that to prevent it would be a great disappointment to both the youths.
Laura was convinced that to achieve the adventure of Charles at the review, was at present
at least a matter of far more prominence with Guy than anything relating to herself.

All but Laura and her mother were wild about the weather, especially on Wednesday, when there
was an attempt at a thunder storm. Nothing was studied but the sky; and the conversation consisted
of prognostications, reports of rises and falls of the glass, of the way weather-cocks were
turning, or about to turn, of swallows flying high or low, red sunsets, and halos round the
moon, until at last Guy, bursting into a merry laugh, begged Mrs. Edmonstone's pardon for being
such a nuisance, and made a vow, and kept it, that be the weather what it might, he would say
not another word about it that evening; it deserved to be neglected, for he had not been able
to settle to anything all day.

He might have said for many days before; for since the last ball, and still more since Lady
Eveleen had been at Hollywell, it had been one round of merriment and amusement. Scrambling
walks, tea-drinkings out of doors, dances among themselves, or with the addition of the Harpers,
were the order of the day. Amy, Eveleen, and Guy, could hardly come into the room without dancing,
and the piano was said to acknowledge nothing but waltzes, polkas, and now and then an Irish
jig, for the special benefit of Mr. Edmonstone's ears. The morning was almost as much spent
in mirth as the afternoon, for the dawdlings after breakfast, and before luncheon, had a great
tendency to spread out and meet, there was new music and singing to be practised, or preparations
made for evening's diversion, or councils to be held, which Laura's absence could not break
up, though it often made Amy feel how much less idle and frivolous Laura was than herself.
Eveleen said the same, but she was visiting, and it was a time to be idle; and Mr. Lascelles
seemed to be of the same opinion with regard to his pupil; for, when Guy was vexed at not having
done as much work as usual, he only laughed at him for expecting to be able to go to balls,
and spend a summer of gaiety, while he studied as much as at Oxford.

Thursday morning was all that heart could wish, the air cooled by the thunder, and the clouds
looking as if raining was foreign to their nature. Mr. and Mrs. Edmonstone, their daughters,
and Lady Eveleen, were packed inside and outside the great carriage, while Guy, carefully settling
Charles in the low phaeton, putting in all that any one recommended, from an air-cushion to
an umbrella, flourished his whip, and drove off with an air of exultation and delight.

Everything went off to admiration. No one was more amused than Charles. The scene was so perfectly
new and delightful to one accustomed to such a monotonous life, that the very sight of people
was a novelty. Nowhere was there so much laughing and talking as in that little carriage, and
whenever Mrs. Edmonstone's anxious eye fell upon it, she always saw Charles sitting upright,
with a face so full of eager interest as to banish all thought of fatigue. Happy, indeed, he
was. He enjoyed the surprise of his acquaintance at meeting him; he enjoyed Dr. Mayerne's laugh
and congratulation; he enjoyed seeing how foolish Philip thought him, nodding to his mother
and sisters, laughing at the dreadful faces Guy could not help making at any particularly discordant
note of the offensive bugle; and his capabilities rising with his spirits, he did all that
the others did, walked further than he had done for years, was lifted up steps without knowing
how, sat out the whole breakfast, talked to all the world, and well earned the being thoroughly
tired, as he certainly was when Guy put him into the carriage and drove him home, and still
more so when Guy all but carried him up stairs, and laid him on the sofa in the dressing-room.

However, his mother announced that it would have been so unnatural if he had not been fatigued,
that she should have been more anxious, and leaving him to repose, they all, except Mr. Edmonstone,
who had stayed to dine at the mess, sat down to dinner.

Amy came down dressed just as the carriage had been announced, and found Laura and Eveleen
standing by the table, arranging their bouquets, while Guy, in the dark, behind the piano,
was playing--not, as usual, in such cases, the Harmonious Blacksmith, but a chant.

'Is mamma ready?' asked Laura.

'Nearly,' said Amy, 'but I wish she was not obliged to go! I am sure she cannot bear to leave
Charlie.'

'I hope she is not going on my account,' said Eveleen.

'No, said Laura, 'we must go; it would so frighten papa if we did not come. Besides, there
is nothing to be uneasy about with Charles.'

'O no,' said Amy; 'she says so, only she is always anxious, and she is afraid he is too restless
to go to sleep.'

'We must get home as fast as we can; if you don't mind, Eva,' said Laura, remembering how her
last dance with Guy had delayed them.

'Can I do any good to Charlie?' said Guy, ceasing his music. I don't mean to go.'

'Not go!' cried the girls in consternation.

'He is joking!' said Eveleen. 'But, I declare!' added she, advancing towards him, 'he is not
dressed! Come, nonsense, this is carrying it too far; you'll make us all too late, and then
I'll set Maurice at you.'

'I am afraid it is no joke,' said Guy, smiling.

'You must go. It will never do for you to stay away,' said Laura, decidedly.

'Are you tired? Aren't you well?' asked Amy.

'Quite well, thank you, but I am sure I had better not.'

Laura thought she had better not seem anxious to take him, so she left the task of persuasion,
to the others, and Amy went on.

'Neither Mamma nor Charlie could bear to think you stayed because of him.'

'I don't, I assure you, Amy. I meant it before. I have been gradually finding out that it must
come to this.'

'Oh, you think it a matter of right and wrong! But you don't think balls wrong?'

'Oh no; only they won't do for such an absurd person as I am. The last turned my head for a
week, and I am much too unsteady for this.'

'Well, if you think it a matter of duty, it can't be helped,' said Amy sorrowfully; 'but I
am very sorry.'

'Thank you,' said Guy, thinking it compassion, not regret; 'but I shall do very well. I shall
be all the happier to-morrow for a quiet hour at my Greek, and you'll tell me all the fun.'

'You liked it so much!' said Amy; 'but you have made up your mind and I ought not to tease you.'

'That's right Amy; he does it on purpose to be teased,' said Eveleen, 'and I never knew anybody
so provoking. Mind, Sir Guy, if you make us all too late, you shan't have the ghost of a quadrille
with me.'

'I shall console myself by quadrilling with Andromache,' said Guy.

'Come, no nonsense--off to dress directly! How can you have the conscience to stand there when
the carriage is at the door?'

'I shall have great pleasure in handing you in when you are ready.'

'Laura--Amy! Does he really mean it?'

'I am afraid he does,' said Amy.

Eveleen let herself fall on the sofa as if fainting. 'Oh,' she said, 'take him away! Let me
never see the face of him again! I'm perfectly overcome! All my teaching thrown away!'

'I am sorry for you,' said Guy, laughing.

'And how do you mean to face Maurice?'

'Tell him his first bugle has so distracted me that I can't answer for the consequences if
I come to-night.

'Mrs. Edmonstone came in, saying,--

'Come, I have kept you waiting shamefully, but I have been consoling myself by thinking you
must be well entertained, as I heard no Harmonious Blacksmith. Papa will be wondering where
we are.'

'Oh, mamma! Guy won't go.'

'Guy! is anything the matter?'

'Nothing, thank you, only idleness.'

'This will never do. You really must go, Guy.'

'Indeed! I think not. Pray don't order me, Mrs. Edmonstone.'

'What o'clock is it, Amy? Past ten! Papa will be in despair! What is to be done? How long do
you take to dress, Guy?'

'Not under an hour,' said Guy, smiling.

'Nonsense! But if there was time I should certainly send you. Self-discipline may be carried
too far, Guy. But now it can't be helped--I don't know how to keep papa waiting any longer.
Laura, what shall I do?'

'Let me go to Charles,' answered Guy. 'Perhaps I can read him to sleep.'

'Thank you; but don't talk, or he will be too excited. Reading would be the very thing! It
will be a pretty story to tell every one who asks for you that I have left you to nurse my son!'

'No, for no such good reason,' said Guy; 'only because I am a great fool.'

'Well, Sir Guy, I am glad you can say one sensible word,' said Lady Eveleen.

'Too true, I assure you,' he answered, as he handed her in. 'Good night! You will keep the
quadrille for me till I am rational.'

He handed the others in, and shut the door. Mrs. Edmonstone, ruffled out of her composure,
exclaimed,--

'Well, this is provoking!'

'Every one will be vexed,' said Laura.

'It will be so stupid,' said Amy.

'I give him up,' said Eveleen. 'I once had hopes of him.'

'If it was not for papa, I really would turn back this moment and fetch him,' cried Mrs. Edmonstone,
starting forward. 'I'm sure it will give offence. I wish I had not consented.'

'He can't be made to see that his presence is of importance to any living creature,' said Laura.

'What is the reason of this whim?' said Eveleen.

'No, Eveleen, it is not whim,' said Laura; 'it is because he thinks dissipation makes him idle.'

'Then if he is idle I wonder what the rest of the world is!' said Eveleen. 'I am sure we all
ought to stay at home too.'

'I think so,' said Amy. 'I know I shall feel all night as if I was wrong to be there.'

'I am angry,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'and yet I believe it is a great sacrifice.'

'Yes, mamma; after all our looking forward to it,' said Amy. 'Oh! yes,' and her voice lost
its piteous tone, 'it is a real sacrifice.'

'If he was not a mere boy, I should say a lover's quarrel was at the bottom of it,' said Eveleen.
'Depend upon it, Laura, it is all your fault. You only danced once with him at our ball, and
all this week you have played for us, as if it was on purpose to cut him.'

Laura was glad of the darkness, and her mother, who had a particular dislike to jokes of this
sort, went on,--'If it were only ourselves I should not care, but there are so many who will
fancy it caprice, or worse.'

'The only comfort is,' said Amy, 'that it is Charlie's gain.'

'I hope they will not talk,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'But Charlie will never hold his tongue.
He will grow excited, and not sleep all night.'

Poor Mrs. Edmonstone! her trials did not end here, for when she replied to her husband's inquiry
for Guy, Mr. Edmonstone said offence had already been taken at his absence from the dinner;
he would not have had this happen for fifty pounds; she ought not to have suffered it; but
it was all her nonsense about Charles, and as to not being late, she should have waited till
midnight rather than not have brought him. In short, he said as much more than he meant, as
a man in a pet is apt to say, and nevertheless Mrs. Edmonstone had to look as amiable and smiling
as if nothing was the matter.

The least untruthful answer she could frame to the inquiries for Sir Guy Morville was, that
young men were apt to be lazy about balls, and this sufficed for good-natured Mrs. Deane, but
Maurice poured out many exclamations about his ill-behaviour, and Philip contented himself
with the mere fact of his not being there, and made no remark.

Laura turned her eyes anxiously on Philip. They had not met since the important conversation
on Ashen-down, and she found herself looking with more pride than ever at his tall, noble figure,
as if he was more her own; but the calmness of feeling was gone. She could not meet his eye,
nor see him turn towards her without a start and tremor for which she could not render herself
a reason, and her heart beat so much that it was at once a relief and a disappointment that
she was obliged to accept her other cousin as her first partner. Philip had already asked Lady
Eveleen, for he neither wished to appear too eager in claiming Laura, nor to let his friend
think he had any dislike to the Irish girl.

Eveleen was much pleased to have him for her partner, and told herself she would be on her
good behaviour. It was a polka, and there was not much talk, which, perhaps, was all the better
for her. She admired the review, and the luncheon, and spoke of Charles without any sauciness,
and Philip was condescending and agreeable.

'I must indulge myself in abusing that stupid cousin of yours!' said she. Did you ever know
a man of such wonderful crotchets?'

'This is a very unexpected one,' said Philip.

'It came like a thunder clap. I thought till the last moment he was joking, for he likes dancing
so much; he was the life of our ball, and how could any one suppose he would fly off at the
last moment?'

'He seems rather to enjoy doing things suddenly.'

'I tell Laura she has affronted him,' said Eveleen, laughing. 'She has been always busy of
late when we have wanted her; and I assure her his pride has been piqued. Don't you think that
is an explanation, Captain Morville?'

It was Captain Morvilles belief, but he would not say so.

'Isn't Laura looking lovely?' Eveleen went on. 'I am sure she is the beauty of the night!'
She was pleased to see Captain Morville's attention gained. 'She is even better dressed than
at our ball--those Venetian pins suit the form of her head so well. Her beauty is better than
almost any one's, because she has so much countenance.'

'True,' said Philip.

'How proud Maurice looks of having her on his arm. Does not he? Poor Maurice! he is desperately
in love with her!'

'As is shown by his pining melancholy.'

Eveleen laughed with her clear hearty laugh. 'I see you know what we mean by being desperately
in love! No,' she added more gravely, 'I am very glad it is only that kind of desperation.
One could not think of Maurice and Laura together. He does not know the best part of Laura.'

Eveleen was highly flattered by Captain Morville conducting her a second time round the room,
instead of at once restoring her to her aunt.

He secured Laura next, and leading her away from her own party, said, 'Laura, have you been
overdoing it?'

'It is not that,' said Laura, wishing she could keep from blushing.

'It is the only motive that could excuse his extraordinary behaviour.'

'Surely you know he says that he is growing unsettled. It is part of his rule of self discipline.'

'Absurd!--exaggerated!--incredible! This is the same story as there was about the horse. It
is either caprice or temper, and I am convinced that some change in your manner--nay, I say
unconscious, and am far from blaming you--is the cause. Why else did he devote himself to Charles,
and leave you all on my uncle's hands in the crowd?'

'We could shift for ourselves much better than Charlie.'

'This confirms my belief that my warning was not mistimed. I wish it could have been done without
decidedly mortifying him and rousing his temper, because I am sorry others should be slighted;
but if he takes your drawing back so much to heart, it shows that it was time you should do so.'

'If I thought I had!'

'It was visible to others--to another, I should say.'

'O, that is only Eveleen's nonsense! The only difference I am conscious of having made, was
keeping more up-stairs, and not trying to persuade him to come here to-night.'

'I have no doubt it was this that turned the scale, He only waited for persuasion, and you
acted very wisely in not flattering his self-love.'

'Did I?--I did not know it.'

'A woman's instinct is often better than reasoning, Laura; to do the right thing without knowing
why. But come, I suppose we must play our part in the pageant of the night.'

For that evening Laura, contrary to the evidence of her senses, was persuaded by her own lover
that Guy was falling in love with her; and after musing all through the dance, she said, 'What
do you think of the scheme that has been started for my going to Ireland with papa?'

'Your going to Ireland?'

'Yes; you know none of us, except papa, have seen grandmamma since Charles began to be ill,
and there is some talk of his taking me with him when he goes this summer.'

'I knew he was going, but I thought it was not to be till later in the year--not till after
the long vacation.'

'So he intended, but he finds he must be at home before the end of October, and it would suit
him best to go in August.'

'Then what becomes of Guy?'

'He stays at Hollywell. It will be much better for Charles to have him there while papa is
away. I thought when the plan was first mentioned I should be sorry, except that it is quite
right to go to grandmamma; but if it is so, about Guy, this absence would be a good thing--it
would make a break, and I could begin again on different terms.'

'Wisely judged, Laura. Yes, on that account it would be very desirable, though it will be a
great loss to me, and I can hardly hope to be so near you on your return.'

'Ah! yes, so I feared!' sighed Laura.

'But we must give up something; and for Guy's own sake, poor fellow, it will be better to make
a break, as you say. It will save him pain by and by.'

'I dare say papa will consult you about when his journey is to be. His only doubt was whether
it would do to leave Guy so long alone, and if you say it would be safe, it would decide him
at once.'

'I see little chance of mischief. Guy has few temptations here, and a strong sense of honour;
besides, I shall be at hand. Taking all things into consideration, Laura, I think that, whatever
the sacrifice to ourselves, it is expedient to recommend his going at once, and your accompanying
him.'

All the remainder of the evening Philip was occupied with attentions to the rest of the world,
but Laura's eyes followed him everywhere, and though she neither expected nor desired him to
bestow more time on her, she underwent a strange restlessness and impatience of feeling. Her
numerous partners teased her by hindering her from watching him moving about the room, catching
his tones, and guessing what he was talking of;--not that she wanted to meet his eye, for she
did not like to blush, nor did she think it pleased him to see her do so, for he either looked
away immediately or conveyed a glance which she understood as monitory. She kept better note
of his countenance than of her own partner's.

Mr. Thorndale, meanwhile, kept aloof from Lady Eveleen de Courcy, but Captain Morville perceived
that his eyes were often turned towards her, and well knew it was principle, and not inclination,
that held him at a distance. He did indeed once ask her to dance, but she was engaged, and
he did not ask her to reserve a future dance for him, but contented himself with little Amy.

Amy was doing her best to enjoy herself, because she thought it ungrateful not to receive pleasure
from those who wished to give it, but to her it wanted the zest and animation of Lady Kilcoran's
ball. Besides, she knew she had been as idle as Guy, or still more so, and she thought it wrong
she should have pleasure while he was doing penance. It was on her mind, and damped her spirits,
and though she smiled, and talked, and admired, and danced lightly and gaily, there was a sensation
of weariness throughout, and no one but Eveleen was sorry when Mrs. Edmonstone sent Maurice
to see for the carriage.

Philip was one of the gentlemen who came to shawl them. As he put Laura's cloak round her shoulders
he was able to whisper, 'Take care; you must be cautious--self-command.'

Laura, though blushing and shrinking the moment before was braced by his words and tone to
attempt all he wished. She looked up in what she meant to be an indifferent manner, and made
some observation in a careless tone--anything rather than let Philip think her silly. After
what he had said, was she not bound more than ever to exert herself to the utmost, that he
might not be disappointed in her? She loved him only the better for what others might have
deemed a stern coldness of manner, for it made the contrast of his real warmth of affection
more precious. She mused over it, as much as her companions' conversation would allow, on the
road home. They arrived, Mrs. Edmonstone peeped into Charles's room, announced that he was
quietly asleep, and they all bade each other good night, or good morning, and parted.

CHAPTER 10

      Leonora. Yet often with respect he speaks of thee.
      Tasso.   Thou meanest with forbearance, prudent, subtle,
               'Tis that annoys me, for he knows to use
               Language so smooth and so conditional,
               That seeming praise from him is actual blame.
                                            --GOETHE'S Tasso

When the Hollywell party met at breakfast, Charles showed himself by no means the worse for
his yesterday's experiment. He said he had gone to sleep in reasonable time, lulled by some
poetry, he knew not what, of which Guy's voice had made very pretty music, and he was now full
of talk about the amusement he had enjoyed yesterday, which seemed likely to afford food for
conversation for many a week to come. After all the care Guy had taken of him, Mrs. Edmonstone
could not find it in her heart to scold, and her husband, having spent his vexation upon her,
had none left to bestow on the real culprit. So when Guy, with his bright morning face, and
his hair hanging shining and wet round it, opened the dining-room door, on his return from
bathing in the river, Mr. Edmonstone's salutation only conveyed that humorous anger that no
one cares for.

'Good morning to you, Sir Guy Morville! I wonder what you have to say for yourself.'

'Nothing,' said Guy, smiling; then, as he took his place by Mrs. Edmonstone, 'I hope you are
not tired after your hard day's work?'

'Not at all, thank you.'

'Amy, can you tell me the name of this flower?'

'Oh! have you really found the arrow-head? How beautiful! Where did you get it? I didn't know
it grew in our river.'

'There is plenty of it in that reedy place beyond the turn. I thought it looked like something
out of the common way.'

'Yes! What a purple eye it has! I must draw it. O, thank you.'

'And, Charlotte, Bustle has found you a moorhen's nest.'

'How delightful! Is it where I can go and see the dear little things?'

'It is rather a swamp; but I have been putting down stepping-stones for you, and I dare say
I can jump you across. It was that which made me so late, for which I ought to have asked pardon,'
said he to Mrs. Edmonstone, with his look of courtesy.

Never did man look less like an offended lover, or like a morose self-tormentor.

'There are others later,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking at Lady Eveleen's empty chair.

'So you think that is all you have to ask pardon for,' said Mr. Edmonstone. 'I advise you to
study your apologies, for you are in pretty tolerable disgrace.'

'Indeed, I am very sorry,' said Guy, with such a change of countenance that Mr. Edmonstone's
good nature could not bear to see it.

'Oh, 'tis no concern of mine! It would be going rather the wrong way, indeed, for you to be
begging my pardon for all the care you've been taking of Charlie; but you had better consider
what you have to say for yourself before you show your face at Broadstone.'

'No?' said Guy, puzzled for a moment, but quickly looking relieved, and laughing, 'What! Broadstone
in despair for want of me?'

'And we perfectly exhausted with answering questions as to what was become of Sir Guy.'

'Dreadful,' said Guy, now laughing heartily, in the persuasion that it was all a joke.

'O, Lady Eveleen, good morning; you are come in good time to give me the story of the ball,
for no one else tells me one word about it.'

'Because you don't deserve it,' said she. 'I hope you have repented by this time.'

'If you want to make me repent, you should give me a very alluring description.'

'I shan't say one word about it; I shall send you to Coventry, as Maurice and all the regiment
mean to do,' said Eveleen, turning away from him with a very droll arch manner of offended dignity.

'Hear, hear! Eveleen send any one to Coventry!' cried Charles. 'See what the regiment say to you.'

'Ay, when I am sent to Coventry?'

'O, Paddy, Paddy!' cried Charles, and there was a general laugh.

'Laura seems to be doing it in good earnest without announcing it,' added Charles, when the
laugh was over, 'which is the worst sign of all.'

'Nonsense, Charles,' said Laura, hastily; then afraid she had owned to annoyance, she blushed
and was angry with herself for blushing.

'Well, Laura, do tell me who your partners were?'

Very provoking, thought Laura, that I cannot say what is so perfectly natural and ordinary,
without my foolish cheeks tingling. He may think it is because he is speaking to me. So she
hurried on: 'Maurice first, then Philip,' and then showed, what Amy and Eveleen thought, strange
oblivion of the rest of her partners.

They proceeded into the history of the ball; and Guy thought no more of his offences till the
following day, when he went to Broadstone. Coming back, he found the drawing-room full of visitors,
and was obliged to sit down and join in the conversation; but Mrs. Edmonstone saw he was inwardly
chafing, as he betrayed by his inability to remain still, the twitchings of his forehead and
lip, and a tripping and stumbling of the words on his tongue. She was sure he wanted to talk
to her, and longed to get rid of Mrs. Brownlow; but the door was no sooner shut on the visitors,
than Mr. Edmonstone came in, with a long letter for her to read and comment upon. Guy took
himself out of the way of the consultation, and began to hurry up and down the terrace, until,
seeing Amabel crossing the field towards the little gate into the garden, he went to open it
for her.

She looked up at him, and exclaimed--'Is anything the matter?'

'Nothing to signify,' he said; 'I was only waiting for your mother. I have got into a mess,
that is all.'

'I am sorry,' began Amy, there resting in the doubt whether she might inquire further, and
intending not to burthen him with her company, any longer than till she reached the house door;
but Guy went on,--

'No, you have no occasion to be sorry; it is all my own fault; at least, if I was clear how
it is my fault, I should not mind it so much. It is that ball. I am sure I had not the least
notion any one would care whether I was there or not.'

'I am sure we missed you very much.'

'You are all so kind; beside, I belong in a manner you; but what could it signify to any one
else? And here I find that I have vexed every one.'

'Ah!' said Amy, 'mamma said she was afraid it would give offence.'

'I ought to have attended to her. It was a fit of self-will in managing myself,' said Guy,
murmuring low, as if trying to find the real indictment; 'yet I thought it a positive duty;
wrong every way.'

'What has happened?' said Amy, turning back with him, though she had reached the door.

'Why, the first person I met was Mr. Gordon; and he spoke like your father, half in joke, and
I thought entirely so; he said something about all the world being in such a rage, that I was
a bold man to venture into Broadstone. Then, while I was at Mr. Lascelles', in came Dr. Mayerne.
'We missed you at the dinner,' he said; 'and I hear you shirked the ball, too.' I told him
how it was, and he said he was glad that was all, and advised me to go and call on Colonel
Deane and explain. I thought that the best way--indeed, I meant it before, and was walking
to his lodgings when Maurice de Courcy met me. 'Ha!' he cries out, 'Morville! I thought at
least you would have been laid up for a month with the typhus fever! As a friend, I advise
you to go home and catch something, for it is the only excuse that will serve you. I am not
quite sure that it will not be high treason for me to be seen speaking to you.' I tried to
get at the rights of it, but he is such a harum-scarum fellow there was no succeeding. Next
I met Thorndale, who only bowed and passed on the other side of the street--sign enough how
it was with Philip; so I thought it best to go at once to the Captain, and get a rational account
of what was the matter.'

'Did you?' said Amy, who, though concerned and rather alarmed, had been smiling at the humorous
and expressive tones with which he could not help giving effect to his narration.

'Yes. Philip was at home, and very--very--'

'Gracious?' suggested Amy, as he hesitated for a word.

'Just so. Only the vexatious thing was, that we never could succeed in coming to an understanding.
He was ready to forgive; but I could not disabuse him of an idea--where he picked it up I cannot
guess--that I had stayed away out of pique. He would not even tell me what he thought had affronted
me, though I asked him over and over again to be only straightforward; he declared I knew.'

'How excessively provoking!' cried Amy. 'You cannot guess what he meant?'

'Not the least in the world. I have not the most distant suspicion. It was of no use to declare
I was not offended with any one; he only looked in that way of his, as if he knew much better
than I did myself, and told me he could make allowances.'

'Worse than all! How horrid of him.'

'No, don't spoil me. No doubt he thinks he has grounds, and my irritation was unjustifiable.
Yes, I got into my old way. He cautioned me, and nearly made me mad! I never was nearer coming
to a regular outbreak. Always the same! Fool that I am.'

'Now, Guy, that is always your way; when other people are provoking, you abuse yourself. I
am sure Philip was so, with his calm assertion of being right.'

'The more provoking, the more trial for me.'

'But you endured it. You say it was only nearly an outbreak. You parted friends? I am sure
of that.'

'Yes, it would have been rather too bad not to do that.'

'Then why do you scold yourself, when you really had the victory?'

'The victory will be if the inward feeling as well as the outward token is ever subdued.'

'O, that must be in time, of course. Only let me hear how you got on with Colonel Deane.'

'He was very good-natured, and would have laughed it off, but Philip went with me, and looked
grand, and begged in a solemn way that no more might be said. I could have got on better alone;
but Philip was very kind, or, as you say, gracious.'

'And provoking,' added Amy, 'only I believe you do not like me to say so.'

'It is more agreeable to hear you call him so at this moment than is good for me. I have no
right to complain, since I gave the offence.'

'The offence?'

'The absenting myself.'

'Oh! that you did because you thought it right.'

'I want to be clear that it was right.'

'What do you mean?' cried she, astonished. 'It was a great piece of self-denial, and I only
felt it wrong not to be doing the same.'

'Nay, how should such creatures as you need the same discipline as I?'

She exclaimed to herself how far from his equal she was--how weak, idle, and self-pleasing
she felt herself to be; but she could not say so--the words would not come; and she only drooped
her little head, humbled by his treating her as better than himself.

He proceeded:--

'Something wrong I have done, and I want the clue. Was it self-will in choosing discipline
contrary to your mother's judgment? Yet she could not know all. I thought it her kindness in
not liking me to lose the pleasure. Besides, one must act for oneself, and this was only my
own personal amusement.'

'Yes,' said Amy, timidly hesitating.

'Well?' said he, with the gentle, deferential tone that contrasted with his hasty, vehement
self-accusations. 'Well?' and he waited, though not so as to hurry or frighten her, but to
encourage, by showing her words had weight.

'I was thinking of one thing,' said Amy; 'is it not sometimes right to consider whether we
ought to disappoint people who want us to be pleased?'

'There it is, I believe,' said Guy, stopping and considering, then going on with a better satisfied
air, 'that is a real rule. Not to be so bent on myself as to sacrifice other people's feelings
to what seems best for me. But I don't see whose pleasure I interfered with.'

Amy could have answered, 'Mine;' but the maidenly feeling checked her again, and she said,
'We all thought you would like it.'

'And I had no right to sacrifice your pleasure! I see, I see. The pleasure of giving pleasure
to others is so much the best there is on earth, that one ought to be passive rather than interfere
with it.'

'Yes,' said Amy, 'just as I have seen Mary Ross let herself be swung till she was giddy, rather
than disappoint Charlotte and Helen, who thought she liked it.'

'If one could get to look at everything with as much indifference as the swinging! But it is
all selfishness. It is as easy to be selfish for one's own good as for one's own pleasure;
and I dare say, the first is as bad as the other.'

'I was thinking of something else,' said Amy. 'I should think it more like the holly tree in
Southey. Don't you know it? The young leaves are sharp and prickly, because they have so much
to defend themselves from, but as the tree grows older, it leaves off the spears, after it
has won the victory.'

'Very kind of you, and very pretty, Amy,' said he, smiling; 'but, in the meantime, it is surely
wrong to be more prickly than is unavoidable, and there is the perplexity. Selfish! selfish!
selfish! Oneself the first object. That is the root.'

'Guy, if it is not impertinent to ask, I do wish you would tell me one thing. Why did you think
it wrong to go to that ball?' said Amy, timidly.

'I don't know that I thought it wrong to go to that individual ball,' said Guy; 'but my notion
was, that altogether I was getting into a rattling idle way, never doing my proper quantity
of work, or doing it properly, and talking a lot of nonsense sometimes. I thought, last Sunday,
it was time to make a short turn somewhere and bring myself up. I could not, or did not get
out of the pleasant talks as Laura does, so I thought giving up this ball would punish me at
once, and set me on a new tack of behaving like a reasonable creature.'

'Don't call yourself too many names, or you won't be civil to us. We all, except Laura, have
been quite as bad.'

'Yes; but you had not so much to do.'

'We ought,' said Amy; 'but I meant to be reasonable when Eveleen is gone.'

Perhaps I ought to have waited till then, but I don't know. Lady Eveleen is so amusing that
it leads to farther dawdling, and it would not do to wait to resist the temptation till it
is out of the way.'

As he spoke, they saw Mrs. Edmonstone coming out, and went to meet her. Guy told her his trouble,
detailing it more calmly than before he had found out his mistake. She agreed with him that
this had been in forgetting that his attending the ball did not concern only himself, but he
then returned to say that he could not see what difference it made, except to their own immediate
circle.

'If it was not you, Guy, who made that speech, I should call it fishing for a compliment. You
forget that rank and station make people sought after.'

'I suppose there is something in that,' said Guy, thoughtfully; 'at any rate, it is no bad
thing to think so, it is so humiliating.'

'That is not the way most people would take it.'

'No? Does not it prevent one from taking any attention as paid to one's real self? The real
flattering thing would be to be made as much of as Philip is, for one's own merits, and not
for the handle to one's name.'

'Yes, I think so,' said Amy.

'Well, then,' as if he wished to gather the whole conversation into one resolve, the point
is to consider whether abstaining from innocent things that may be dangerous to oneself mortifies
other people. If so, the vexing them is a certain wrong, whereas the mischief of taking the
pleasure is only a possible contingency. But then one must take it out of oneself some other
way, or it becomes an excuse for self-indulgence.'

'Hardly with you,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, smiling.

'Because I had rather go at it at once, and forget all about other people. You must teach me
consideration, Mrs. Edmonstone, and in the meantime will you tell me what you think I had better
do about this scrape?'

'Let it alone,' said Mrs. Edmonstone. 'You have begged every one's pardon, and it had better
be forgotten as fast as possible. They have made more fuss already than it is worth. Don't
torment yourself about it any more; for, if you have made a mistake, it is on the right side;
and on the first opportunity, I'll go and call on Mrs. Deane, and see if she is very implacable.'

The dressing-bell rang, and Amy ran up-stairs, stopping at Laura's door, to ask how she prospered
in the drive she had been taking with Charles and Eveleen.

Amy told her of Guy's trouble, and oh! awkward question, inquired if she could guess what it
could be that Philip imagined that Guy had been offended at.

'Can't he guess?' said poor Laura, to gain time, and brushing her hair over her face.

'No, he has no idea, though Philip protested that he knew, and would not tell him. Philip must
have been most tiresome.'

'What? Has Guy been complaining?'

'No, only angry with himself for being vexed. I can't think how Philip can go on so!'

'Hush! hush, Amy, you know nothing about it. He has reasons--'

'I know,' said Amy, indignantly; 'but what right has he to go on mistrusting? If people are
to be judged by their deeds, no one is so good as Guy, and it is too bad to reckon up against
him all his ancestors have done. It is wolf and lamb, indeed.'

'He does not!' cried Laura. 'He never is unjust! How can you say so, Amy?'

'Then why does he impute motives, and not straightforwardly tell what he means?'

'It is impossible in this case,' said Laura.

'Do you know what it is?'

'Yes,' said Laura, perfectly truthful, and feeling herself in a dreadful predicament.

'And you can't tell me?'

'I don't think I can.'

'Nor Guy?'

'Not for worlds,' cried Laura, in horror.

'Can't you get Philip to tell him?'

'Oh no, no! I can't explain it, Amy; and all that can be done is to let it die away as fast
as possible. It is only the rout about it that is of consequence.'

'It is very odd,' said Amy, 'but I must dress,' and away she ran, much puzzled, but with no
desire to look into Philip's secrets.

Laura rested her head on her hand, sighed, and wondered why it was so hard to answer. She almost
wished she had said Philip had been advising her to discourage any attachment on Guy's part;
but then Amy might have laughed, and asked why. No! no! Philip's confidence was in her keeping,
and cost her what it might, she would be faithful to the trust.

There was now a change. The evenings were merry, but the mornings were occupied. Guy went off
to his room, as he used to do last winter; Laura commenced some complicated perspective, or
read a German book with a great deal of dictionary; Amy had a book of history, and practised
her music diligently; even Charles read more to himself, and resumed the study with Guy and
Amy; Lady Eveleen joined in every one's pursuits, enjoyed them, and lamented to Laura that
it was impossible to be rational at her own home.

Laura tried to persuade her that there was no need that she should be on the level of the society
round her, and it ended in her spending an hour in diligent study every morning, promising
to continue it when she went home, while Laura made such sensible comments that Eveleen admired
her more than ever; and she, knowing that some were second-hand from Philip, others arising
from his suggestions, gave him all the homage paid to herself, as a tribute to him who reigned
over her whole being.

Yet she was far from happy. Her reserve towards Guy made her feel stiff and guarded; she had
a craving for Philip's presence, with a dread of showing it, which made her uncomfortable.
She wondered he had not been at Hollywell since the bail, for he must know that she was going
to Ireland in a fortnight, and was not likely to return till his regiment had left Broadstone.

An interval passed long enough for her not to be alone in her surprise at his absenting himself
before he at length made his appearance, just before luncheon, so as to miss the unconstrained
morning hours he used so much to enjoy. He found Guy, Charles, and Amy, deep in Butler's Analogy.

'Are you making poor little Amy read that?' said he.

'Bravo!' cried Charles; 'he is so disappointed that it is not Pickwick that he does not know
what else to say.'

'I don't suppose I take much in,' said Amy; 'but I like to be told what it means.'

'Don't imagine I can do that,' said Guy.

'I never spent much time over it,' said Philip; 'but I should think you were out of your depth.'

'Very well,' said Charles; 'we will return to Dickens to oblige you.'

'It is your pleasure to wrest my words,' replied Philip, in his own calm manner, though he
actually felt hurt, which he had never done before. His complacency was less secure, so that
there was more need for self-assertion.

'Where are the rest?' he asked.

'Laura and Eveleen are making a dictation lesson agreeable to Charlotte,' said Amy; 'I found
Eva making mistakes on purpose.'

'How much longer does she stay?'

'Till Tuesday. Lord Kilcoran is coming to fetch her.'

Charlotte entered, and immediately ran up-stairs to announce her cousin's arrival. Laura was
glad of this previous notice, and hoped her blush and tremor were not observed. It was a struggle,
through luncheon time, to keep her colour and confusion within bounds; but she succeeded better
than she fancied she did, and Philip gave her as much help as he could, by not looking at her.
Seeing that he dreaded nothing so much as her exciting suspicion, she was at once braced and
alarmed.

Her father was very glad to see him, and reproached him for making himself a stranger, while
her sisters counted up the days of his absence.

'There was the time, to be sure, when we met you on Ashen-down, but that was a regular cheat.
Laura had you all to herself.'

Laura bent down to feed Bustle, and Philip felt his colour deepening.

Mr. Edmonstone went on to ask him to come and stay at Hollywell for a week, vowing he would
take no refusal. 'A week was out of the question, said Philip; 'but he could come for two nights.'
Amabel hinted that there was to be a dinner-party on Thursday, thinking it fair to give him
warning of what he disliked, but he immediately chose that very day. Again he disconcerted
all expectations, when it was time to go out. Mrs. Edmonstone and Charles were going to drive,
the young ladies and Guy to walk, but Philip disposed himself to accompany his uncle in a survey
of the wheat.

Laura perceived that he would not risk taking another walk with her when they might be observed.
It showed implicit trust to leave her to his rival; but she was sorry to find that caution
must put an end to the freedom of their intercourse, and would have stayed at home, but that
Eveleen was so wild and unguarded that Mrs. Edmonstone did not like her to be without Laura
as a check on her, especially when Guy was of the party. There was some comfort in that warm
pressure of her hand when she bade Philip good-bye, and on that she lived for a long time.
He stood at the window watching them till they were out of sight, then moved towards his aunt,
who with her bonnet on, was writing an invitation for Thursday, to Mr. Thorndale.

'I was thinking,' said he, in a low voice, 'if it would not be as well, if you liked, to ask
Thorndale here for those two days.'

'If you think so,' returned Mrs. Edmonstone, looking at him more inquiringly than he could
well bear.

'You know how he enjoys being here, and I owe them all so much kindness.'

'Certainly; I will speak to your uncle,' said she, going in search of him. She presently returned,
saying they should be very glad to see Mr. Thorndale, asking him at the same time, in her kind
tones of interest, after an old servant for whom he had been spending much thought and pains.
The kindness cut him to the heart, for it evidently arose from a perception that he was ill
at ease, and his conscience smote him. He answered shortly, and was glad when the carriage
came; he lifted Charles into it, and stood with folded arms as they drove away.

'The air is stormy,' said Charles, looking back at him.'

'You thought so, too?' said Mrs. Edmonstone, eagerly.

'You did!'

'I have wondered for some time past.'

'It was very decided to-day--that long absence--and there was no provoking him to be sententious.
His bringing his young man might be only to keep him in due subjection; but his choosing the
day of the party, and above all, not walking with the young ladies.'

'It not like himself,' said Mrs. Edmonstone, in a leading tone.

'Either the sweet youth is in love, or in the course of some strange transformation.'

'In love!' she exclaimed. 'Have you any reason for thinking so?'

'Only as a solution of phenomena; but you look as if I had hit on the truth.'

'I hope it is no such thing; yet--'

'Yet?' repeated Charles, seriously. 'I think he has discovered the danger.'

'The danger of falling in love with Laura? Well, it would be odd if he was not satisfied with
his own work. But he must know how preposterous that would be.'

'And you think that would prevent it?' said his mother, smiling. 'He is just the man to plume
himself on making his judgment conquer his inclination, setting novels at defiance. How magnanimously
he would resolve to stifle a hopeless attachment!'

'That is exactly what I think he is doing. I think he has found out the state of his feelings,
and is doing all in his power to check them by avoiding her, especially in tete-a-tetes, and
an unconstrained family party. I am nearly convinced that is his reason for bringing Mr. Thorndale,
and fixing on the day of the dinner. Poor fellow, it must cost him a great deal, and I long
to tell him how I thank him.'

'Hm! I don't think it unlikely,' said Charles. 'It agrees with what happened the evening of
the Kilcoran ball, when he was ready to eat me up for saying something he fancied was a hint
of a liking of Guy's for Laura. It was a wild mistake, for something I said about Petrarch,
forgetting that Petrarch suggested Laura; but it put him out to a degree, and he made all manner
of denunciations on the horror of Guy's falling in love with her. Now, as far as I see, Guy
is much more in love with you, or with Deloraine, and the idea argues far more that the Captain
himself is touched.'

'Depend upon it, Charlie, it was this that led to his detecting the true state of the case.
Ever since that he has kept away. It is noble!'

'And what do you think about Laura?'

'Poor child! I doubt if it was well to allow so much intimacy; yet I don't see how it could
have been helped.'

'So you think she is in for it? I hope not; but she has not been herself of late.'

'I think she misses what she has been used to from him, and thinks him estranged, but I trust
it goes no further. I see she is out of spirits; I wish I could help her, dear girl, but the
worst of all would be to let her guess the real name and meaning of all this, so I can't venture
to say a word.'

'She is very innocent of novels,' said Charles, 'and that is well. It would be an unlucky business
to have our poor beauty either sitting 'like Patience on a monument', or 'cockit up on a baggage-waggon.'
But that will never be. Philip is not the man to have a wife in barracks. He would have her
like his books, in morocco, or not at all.'

'He would never involve her in discomforts. He may be entirely trusted, and as long as he goes
on as he has begun, there is no harm done; Laura will cheer up, will only consider him as her
cousin and friend, and never know he has felt more for her.'

'Her going to Ireland is very fortunate.'

'It has made me still more glad that the plan should take place at once.'

'And you say "nothing to nobody"?'

'Of course not. We must not let him guess we have observed anything; there is no need to make
your father uncomfortable, and such things need not dawn on Amy's imagination.'

It may be wondered at that Mrs. Edmonstone should confide such a subject to her son, but she
knew that in a case really affecting his sister, and thus introduced, his silence was secure.
In fact, confidence was the only way to prevent the shrewd, unscrupulous raillery which would
have caused great distress, and perhaps led to the very disclosure to be deprecated. Of late,
too, there had been such a decrease of petulance in Charles, as justified her in trusting him,
and lastly, it must be observed that she was one of those open-hearted people who cannot make
a discovery nor endure an anxiety without imparting it. Her tact, indeed, led her to make a
prudent choice of confidants, and in this case her son was by far the best, though she had
spoken without premeditation. Her nature would never have allowed her to act as her daughter
was doing; she would have been without the strength to conceal her feelings, especially when
deprived of the safety-valve of free intercourse with their object.

The visit took place as arranged, and very uncomfortable it was to all who looked deeper than
the surface. In the first place, Philip found there the last person he wished his friend to
meet--Lady Eveleen, who had been persuaded to stay for the dinner-party; but Mr. Thorndale
was, as Charles would have said, on his good behaviour, and, ashamed of the fascination her
manners exercised over him, was resolved to resist it, answered her gay remarks with brief
sentences and stiff smiles, and consorted chiefly with the gentlemen.

Laura was grave and silent, trying to appear unconscious, and only succeeding in being visibly
constrained. Philip was anxious and stern in his attempts to appear unconcerned, and even Guy
was not quite as bright and free as usual, being puzzled as to how far he was forgiven about
the ball.

Amabel could not think what had come to every one, and tried in vain to make them sociable.
In the evening they had recourse to a game, said to be for Charlotte's amusement, but in reality
to obviate some of the stiffness and constraint; yet even this led to awkward situations. Each
person was to set down his or her favourite character in history and fiction, flower, virtue,
and time at which to have lived, and these were all to be appropriated to the writers. The
first read was--

'Lily of the valley--truth--Joan of Arc--Padre Cristoforo--the present time.'

'Amy!' exclaimed Guy.

'I see you are right,' said Charles; 'but tell me your grounds!'

'Padre Cristoforo,' was the answer.

'Fancy little Amy choosing Joan of Arc,' said Eveleen, 'she who is afraid of a tolerable sized
grasshopper.'

'I should like to have been Joan's sister, and heard her tell about her visions,' said Amy.

'You would have taught her to believe them,' said Philip.

'Taught her!' cried Guy. 'Surely you take the high view of her.'

'I think,' said Philip, 'that she is a much injured person, as much by her friends as her enemies;
but I don't pretend to enter either enthusiastically or philosophically into her character.'

What was it that made Guy's brow contract, as he began to strip the feather of a pen, till,
recollecting himself, he threw it from him with a dash, betraying some irritation, and folded
his hands.

'Lavender,' read Charlotte.

'What should make any one choose that?' cried Eveleen.

'I know!' said Mrs. Edmonstone, looking up. 'I shall never forget the tufts of lavender round
the kitchen garden at Stylehurst.'

Philip smiled. Charlotte proceeded, and Charles saw Laura's colour deepening as she bent over
her work.

'"Lavender--steadfastness--Strafford--Cordelia in 'King Lear'--the late war." How funny!' cried
Charlotte. 'For hear the next: "Honeysuckle--steadfastness--Lord Strafford--Cordelia--the present
time." Why, Laura, you must have copied it from Philip's.'

Laura neither looked nor spoke. Philip could hardly command his countenance as Eveleen laughed,
and told him he was much flattered by those becoming blushes. But here Charles broke in,--'Come,
make haste, Charlotte, don't be all night about it;' and as Charlotte paused, as if to make
some dangerous remark, he caught the paper, and read the next himself. Nothing so startled
Philip as this desire to cover their confusion. Laura was only sensible of the relief of having
attention drawn from her by the laugh that followed.

'A shamrock--Captain Rock--the tailor that was "blue moulded for want of a bating"--Pat Riotism--the
time of Malachy with the collar of gold.'

'Eva!' cried Charlotte.

'Nonsense,' said Eveleen; 'I am glad I know your tastes, Charles. They do you honour.'

'More than yours do, if these are yours,' said Charles, reading them contemptuously; 'Rose--generosity--Charles
Edward--Catherine Seyton--the civil wars.'

'You had better not have disowned Charlie's, Lady Eveleen,' said Guy.

'Nay do you think I would put up with such a set as these?' retorted Charles; 'I am not fallen
so low as the essence of young ladyism.'

'What can you find to say against them?' said Eveleen.

'Nothing,' said Charles, 'No one ever can find anything to say for or against young ladies'
tastes.'

'You seem to be rather in the case of the tailor yourself,' said Guy, 'ready to do battle,
if you could but get any opposition.'

'Only tell me,' said Amy, 'how you could wish to live in the civil wars?'

'O, because they would be so entertaining.'

'There's Paddy, genuine Paddy at last!' exclaimed Charles. 'Depend upon it, the conventional
young lady won't do, Eva.'

After much more discussion, and one or two more papers, came Guy's--the last. 'Heather--Truth--King
Charles--Sir Galahad--the present time.'

'Sir how much? exclaimed Charles.

'Don't you know him?' said Guy. 'Sir Galahad--the Knight of the Siege Perilous--who won the
Saint Greal.'

'What language is that?' said Charles.

'What! Don't you know the Morte d'Arthur! I thought every one did! Don't you, Philip!'

'I once looked into it. It is very curious, in classical English; but it is a book no one could
read through.'

'Oh!' cried Guy, indignantly; then, 'but you only looked into it. If you had lived with its
two fat volumes, you could not help delighting in it. It was my boating-book for at least three
summers.'

'That accounts for it,' said Philip; 'a book so studied in boyhood acquires a charm apart from
its actual merits.'

'But it has actual merits. The depth, the mystery, the allegory--the beautiful characters of
some of the knights.'

'You look through the medium of your imagination,' said Philip; but you must pardon others
for seeing a great sameness of character and adventure, and for disapproving of the strange
mixture of religion and romance.'

'You've never read it,' said Guy, striving to speak patiently.

'A cursory view is sufficient to show whether a book will repay the time spent in reading it.'

'A cursory view enable one to judge better than making it your study? Eh, Philip?' said Charles.

'It is no paradox. The actual merits are better seen by an unprejudiced stranger than by an
old friend who lends them graces of his own devising.'

Charles laughed: Guy pushed back his chair, and went to look out at the window. Perhaps Philip
enjoyed thus chafing his temper; for after all he had said to Laura, it was satisfactory to
see his opinion justified, so that he might not feel himself unfair. It relieved his uneasiness
lest his understanding with Laura should be observed. It had been in great peril that evening,
for as the girls went up to bed, Eveleen gaily said, 'Why, Laura, have you quarrelled with
Captain Morville?'

'How can you say such things, Eva? Good night.' And Laura escaped into her own room.

'What's the meaning of it, Amy?' pursued Eveleen.

'Only a stranger makes us more formal,' said Amy.

'What an innocent you are! It is of no use to talk to you!' said Eveleen, running away.

'No; but Eva,' said Amy, pursuing her, 'don't go off with a wrong fancy. Charles has teased
Laura so much about Philip, that of course it makes her shy of him before strangers; and it
would never have done to laugh about their choosing the same things when Mr. Thorndale was there.'

'I must be satisfied, I suppose. I know that is what you think, for you could not say any other.'

'But what do you think?' said Amy, puzzled.

'I won't tell you, little innocence--it would only shock you.'

'Nothing you really thought about Laura could shock me,' said Amy; 'I don't mean what you might
say in play.'

'Well, then, shall you think me in play or earnest when I say that I think Laura likes Philip
very much?'

'In play' said Amy; 'for you know that if we had not got our own Charlie to show us what a
brother is, we should think of Philip as just the same as a brother.'

'A brother! You are pretending to be more simple than you really are, Amy! Don't you know what
I mean?'

'O,' said Amy, her cheeks lighting up, 'that must be only play, for he has never asked her.'

'Ah, but suppose she was in the state just ready to be asked?'

'No, that could never be, for he could never ask her,'

'Why not, little Amy?'

'Because we are cousins, and everything,' said Amy, confused. 'Don't talk any more about it,
Eva; for though I know it is all play, I don't like it, and mamma, would not wish me to talk
of such things. And don't you laugh about it, dear Eva, pray; for it only makes every one uncomfortable.
Pray!'

Amy had a very persuasive way of saying 'pray,' and Eveleen thought she must yield to it. Besides,
she respected Laura and Captain Morville too much to resolve to laugh at them, whatever she
might do when her fear of the Captain made her saucy.

Mrs. Edmonstone thought it best on all accounts to sit in the drawing-room the next morning;
but she need not have taken so much pains to chaperon her young ladies, for the gentlemen did
not come near them.

Laura was more at ease in manner, though very far from happy, for she was restlessly eager
for a talk with Philip; while he was resolved not to seek a private interview, sure that it
would excite suspicion, and willing to lose the consciousness of his underhand proceedings.

This was the day of the dinner-party, and Laura's heart leaped as she calculated that it must
fall to Philip's lot to hand her in to dinner. She was not mistaken, he did give her his arm;
and they found themselves most favourably placed, for Philip's other neighbour was Mrs. Brownlow,
talking at a great rate to Mr. de Courcy, and on Laura's side was the rather deaf Mr. Hayley,
who had quite enough to do to talk to Miss Brownlow. Charles was not at table, and not one
suspicious eye could rest on them, yet it was not till the second course was in progress that
he said anything which the whole world might not have heard. Something had passed about Canterbury,
and its distance from Hollywell.

'I can be here often,' said Philip.

'I am glad.'

'If you can only be guarded,--and I think you are becoming so.'

'Is this a time to speak of--? Oh, don't!'

'It is the only time. No one is attending, and I have something to say to you.'

Overpowering her dire confusion, in obedience to him, she looked at the epergne, and listened.

'You have acted prudently. You have checked--' and he indicated Guy--'without producing more
than moderate annoyance. You have only to guard your self-possession.'

'It is very foolish,' she murmured.

'Ordinary women say so, and rest contented with the folly. You can do better things.'

There was a thrill of joy at finding him conversing with her as his 'own;' it overcame her
embarrassment and alarm, and wishes he would not choose such a time for speaking.'

'How shall I?' said she.

'Employ yourself. Employ and strengthen your mind!'

'How shall I, and without you?'

'Find something to prevent you from dwelling on the future. That drawing is dreamy work, employing
the fingers and leaving the mind free.'

'I have been trying to read, but I cannot fix my mind.'

'Suppose you take what will demand attention. Mathematics, algebra. I will send you my first
book of algebra, and it will help you to work down many useless dreams and anxieties.'

'Thank you; pray do; I shall be very glad of it.'

'You will find it give a power and stability to your mind, and no longer have to complain of
frivolous occupation.'

'I don't feel frivolous now,' said Laura, sadly; 'I don't know why it is that everything is
so altered, I am really happier, but my light heart is gone.'

'You have but now learnt the full powers of your soul, Laura, you have left the world of childhood,
with the gay feelings which have no depth.'

'I have what is better,' she whispered.

'You have, indeed. But those feelings must be regulated, and strengthening the intellect strengthens
the governing power.'

Philip, with all his sense, was mystifying himself, because he was departing from right, the
only true 'good sense.' His right judgment in all things was becoming obscured, so he talked
metaphysical jargon, instead of plain practical truth, and thought he was teaching Laura to
strengthen her powers of mind, instead of giving way to dreams, when he was only leading her
to stifle meditation, and thus securing her complete submission to himself.

She was happier after this conversation, and better able to pay attention to the guests, nor
did she feel guilty when obliged to play and sing in the evening--for she knew he must own
that she could do no otherwise.

Lady Eveleen gave, however, its brilliancy to the party. She had something wonderfully winning
and fascinating about her, and Philip owned to himself that it took no small resolution on
the part of Mr. Thorndale to keep so steadily aloof from the party in the bay window, where
she was reigning like a queen, and inspiring gaiety like a fairy. She made Guy sing with her;
it was the first time he had ever sung, except among themselves, as Mrs. Edmonstone had never
known whether he would like to be asked; but Eveleen refused to sing some of the Irish melodies
unless he would join her, and without making any difficulty he did so. Mrs. Brownlow professed
to be electrified, and Eveleen declaring that she knew she sung like a peacock, told Mrs. Brownlow
that the thing to hear was Sir Guy singing glees with Laura and Amy. Of course, they were obliged
to sing. Mrs. Brownlow was delighted; and as she had considerable knowledge of music, they
all grew eager and Philip thought it very foolish of Guy to allow so much of his talent and
enthusiasm to display themselves.

When all the people were gone, and the home party had wished each other good-night, Philip
lingered in the drawing-room to finish a letter. Guy, after helping Charles up-stairs, came
down a few moments after, to fetch something which he had forgotten. Philip looked up,--'You
contributed greatly to the entertainment this evening,' he said.

Guy coloured, not quite sure that this was not said sarcastically, and provoked with himself
for being vexed.

'You think one devoid of the sixth sense has no right to speak,' said Philip.

'I can't expect all to think it, as I do, one of the best things in this world or out of it,'
said Guy, speaking quickly.

'I know it is so felt by those who understand its secrets,' said Philip. 'I would not depreciate
it; so you may hear me patiently, Guy. I only meant to warn you, that it is often the means
of bringing persons into undesirable intimacies, from which they cannot disentangle themselves
as easily as they enter them.'

A flush crossed Guy's cheek, but it passed, and he simply said--'I suppose it may. Good-night.'

Philip looked after him, and pondered on what it was that had annoyed him--manner, words, or
advice. He ascribed it to Guy's unwillingness to be advised, since he had observed that his
counsel was apt to irritate him, though his good sense often led him to follow it. In the present
case, Philip thought Mrs. Brownlow and her society by no means desirable for a youth like Guy;
and he was quite right.

Philip and his friend went the next morning; and in the afternoon Laura received the book of
algebra--a very original first gift from a lover. It came openly, with a full understanding
that she was to use it by his recommendation; her mother and brother both thought they understood
the motive, which one thought very wise, and the other very characteristic.

Lord Kilcoran and Lady Eveleen also departed. Eveleen very sorry to go, though a little comforted
by the prospect of seeing Laura so soon in Ireland, where she would set her going in all kinds
of 'rationalities--reading, and school teaching, and everything else.'

'Ay,' said Charles, when all were out of hearing but his mother; 'and I shrewdly suspect the
comfort would be still greater if it was Sir Guy Morville who was coming.'

'It would be no bad thing,' said his mother: 'Eveleen is a nice creature with great capabilities.'

'Capabilities! but will they ever come to anything?'

'In a few years,' said Mrs. Edmonstone; 'and he is a mere boy at present, so there is plenty
of time for both to develop themselves.'

'Most true, madame mere; but it remains to be proved whether the liking for Sir Guy, which
has taken hold of my lady Eveleen, is strong enough to withstand all the coquetting with young
Irishmen, and all the idling at Kilcoran.'

'I hope she has something better to be relied on than the liking for Sir Guy.'

'You may well do so, for I think he has no notion of throwing off his allegiance to you--his
first and only love. He liked very well to make fun with Eva; but he regarded her rather as
a siren, who drew him off from his Latin and Greek.'

'Yes; I am ashamed of myself for such a fit of match-making! Forget it, Charlie, as fast as
you can.'

CHAPTER 11

     This warld's wealth, when I think o't,
     Its pride, and a' the lave o't,
     Fie, fie on silly coward man,
     That he should be the slave o't.
                             --BURNS

In another week Mr. Edmonstone and his eldest daughter were to depart on their Irish journey.
Laura, besides the natural pain in leaving home, was sorry to be no longer near Philip, especially
as it was not likely that he would be still at Broadstone on their return; yet she was so restless
and dissatisfied, that any change was welcome, and the fear of betraying herself almost took
away the pleasure of his presence.

He met them at the railway station at Broadstone, where Mr. Edmonstone, finding himself much
too early, recollected something he had forgotten in the town, and left his daughter to walk
up and down the platform under Philip's charge. They felt it a precious interval, but both
were out of spirits, and could hardly profit by it.

'You will be gone long before we come back,' said Laura.

'In a fortnight or three weeks, probably.'

'But you will still be able to come to Hollywell now and then?'

'I hope so. It is all the pleasure I can look for. We shall never see such a summer again.'

'Oh, it has been a memorable one!'

'Memorable! Yes. It has given me an assurance that compensates for all I have lost; yet it
has made me feel, more than ever before, how poverty withers a man's hopes.'

'O Philip, I always thought your poverty a great, noble thing!'

'You thought like a generous-tempered girl who has known nothing of its effects.'

'And do you know that Guy says the thing to be proud of is of holding the place you do, without
the aid of rank or riches.'

'I would not have it otherwise--I would not for worlds that my father had acted otherwise,'
said Philip. 'You understand that, Laura.'

'Of course I do.'

'But when you speak--when Guy speaks of my holding the place I do, you little know what it
is to feel that powers of usefulness are wasted--to know I have the means of working my way
to honour and distinction, such as you would rejoice in Laura, to have it all within, yet feel
it thrown away. Locksley Hall, again--"every door is barred with gold, and opens but to golden
keys.'"

'I wish there was anything to be done,' said Laura.

'It is my profession that is the bar to everything. I have sold the best years of my life,
and for what? To see my sister degrade herself by that marriage.'

'That is the real grief,' said Laura.

'But for that, I should never have cast a look back on what I relinquished. However, why do
I talk of these things, these vain regrets? They only occurred because my welfare does not
concern myself alone--and here's your father.'

Mr. Edmonstone returned, out of breath, in too much bustle remark his daughter's blushes. Even
when the train was moving off, he still had his head out at the window, calling to Philip that
they should expect a visit from him as soon as ever they returned. Such cordiality gave Philip
a pang; and in bitterness of spirit he walked back to the barracks. On the way he met Mrs.
Deane who wanted to consult him about inviting his cousin, Sir Guy to a dinner-party she intended
to give next week. 'Such an agreeable, sensible youth, and we feel we owe him some attention,
he took so much pains to make apologies about the ball.'

'I dare say he will be very happy to come.'

'We will write at once. He is a very fine young man, without a shade of vanity or nonsense.'

'Yes; he has very pleasant, unaffected manners.'

'I am sure he will do credit to his estate. It is a very handsome fortune, is it not?'

'It is a very large property.'

'I am glad of it; I have no doubt we shall see him one of the first men of his time.'

These words brought into contrast in Philip's mind the difference between Guy's position and
his own. The mere possession of wealth was winning for Guy, at an age when his merits could
only be negative, that estimation which his own tried character had scarcely achieved, placing
him not merely on a level with himself, but in a situation where happiness and influence came
unbidden. His own talents, attainments, and equal, if not superior claims, to gentle blood,
could not procure him what seemed to lie at Guy's feet. His own ability and Laura's heart alone
were what wealth could not affect; yet when he thought how the want of it wasted the one, and
injured the hopes of the other, he recurred to certain visions of his sister Margaret's, in
days gone by, of what he was to do as Sir Philip, lord of Redclyffe. He was speculating on
what would have happened had Guy died in his sickly infancy, when, suddenly recollecting himself,
he turned his mind to other objects.

Guy was not much charmed with Mrs. Deane's invitation. He said he knew he must go to make up
for his rudeness about the ball; but he grumbled enough to make Mrs. Edmonstone laugh at him
for being so stupid as to want to stay hum-drum in the chimney corner. No doubt it was very
pleasant there. There was that peculiar snugness which belongs to a remnant of a large party,
when each member of it feels bound to prevent the rest from being dull. Guy devoted himself
to Charles more than ever, and in the fear that he might miss the late variety of amusement,
exerted even more of his powers of entertainment than Lady Eveleen had called forth.

There were grave readings in the mornings, and long walks in the afternoons, when he dragged
Charles, in his chair, into many a place he had never expected to see again, and enabled him
to accompany his mother and sisters in many a delightful expedition. In the evening there was
music, or light reading, especially poetry, as this was encouraged by Mrs. Edmonstone, in the
idea that it was better that so excitable and enthusiastic a person as Guy should have his
objects of admiration tested by Charles's love of ridicule.

Mr. Edmonstone had left to Guy the office of keeping the 1st of September, one which he greatly
relished. Indeed, when he thought of his own deserted manors, he was heard to exclaim, in commiseration
for the neglect, 'Poor partridges!' The Hollywell shooting was certainly not like that at Redclyffe,
where he could hardly walk out of his own grounds, whereas here he had to bear in mind so many
boundaries, that Philip was expecting to have to help him out of some direful scrape. He had
generally walked over the whole extent, and assured himself that the birds were very wild,
and Bustle the best of dogs, before breakfast, so as to be ready for all the occupations of
the day. He could scarcely be grateful when the neighbours, thinking it must be very dull for
him to be left alone with Mrs. Edmonstone and her crippled son, used to ask him to shoot or
dine. He always lamented at first, and ended by enjoying himself.

One night, he came home, in such a state of eagerness, that he must needs tell his good news;
and, finding no one in the drawing-room, he ran up-stairs, opened Charles's door, and exclaimed--'There's
to be a concert at Broadstone!' Then perceiving that Charles was fast asleep, he retreated
noiselessly, reserving his rejoicings till morning, when it appeared that Charles had heard,
but had woven the announcement into a dream.

This concert filled Guy's head. His only grief was that it was to be in the evening, so that
Charles could not go to it; and his wonder was not repressed at finding that Philip did not
mean to favour it with his presence, since Guy would suffice for squire to Mrs. Edmonstone
and her daughters.

In fact, Philip was somewhat annoyed by the perpetual conversation about the concert, and on
the day on which it was to take place resolved on making a long expedition to visit the ruins
of an old abbey, far out of all reports of it. As he was setting out, he was greeted, in a
very loud voice, by Mr. Gordon.

'Hollo, Morville! how are you? So you have great doings to-night, I hear!' and he had only
just forced himself from him, when he was again accosted, this time in a hasty, embarrassed
manner,--

'I beg your pardon, sir, but the ties of relationship--'

He drew himself up as if he was on parade, faced round, and replied with an emphatic 'Sir!'
as he behold a thin, foreign-looking man, in a somewhat flashy style of dress, who, bowing
low, repeated breathlessly,--

'I beg your pardon--Sir Guy Morville, I believe!'

'Captain Morville, sir!'

'I beg your pardon--I mistook. A thousand pardons,' and he retreated; while Philip, after a
moment's wonder, pursued his walk.

The Hollywell party entered Broadstone in a very different temper, and greatly did they enjoy
the concert, both for themselves and for each other. In the midst of it, while Amy was intent
on the Italian words of a song, Guy touched her hand, and pointed to a line in the programme--

          Solo on the violin.... MR. S. B. DIXON.

She looked up in his face with an expression full of inquiry; but it was no time for speaking,
and she only saw how the colour mantled on his cheek when the violinist appeared, and how he
looked down the whole time of the performance, only now and then venturing a furtive though
earnest glance.

He did not say anything till they were seated in the carriage, and then astonished Mrs. Edmonstone
by exclaiming--

'It must be my uncle!--I am sure it must. I'll ride to Broadstone the first thing to-morrow,
and find him out.'

'Your uncle!' exclaimed Mrs. Edmonstone. 'I never thought of that.'

S. B. Dixon,' said Guy. 'I know his name is Sebastian. It cannot be any one else. You know
he went to America. How curious it is! I suppose there is no fear of his being gone before
I can come in to-morrow.'

'I should think not. Those musical people keep late hours.'

'I would go before breakfast. Perhaps it would be best to go to old Redford, he will know all
about him; or to the music-shop. I am so glad! It is the very thing I always wished.'

'Did you?' said Mrs. Edmonstone to herself. 'I can't say every one would be of your mind; but
I can't help liking you the better for it. I wish the man had kept further off. I wish Mr.
Edmonstone was at home. I hope no harm will come of it. I wonder what I ought to do. Shall
I caution him? No; I don't think I can spoil his happiness--and perhaps the man may be improved.
He is his nearest relation, and I have no right to interfere. His own good sense will protect
him--but I wish Mr. Edmonstone was at home.'

She therefore did not check his expressions of delight, nor object to his going to Broadstone
early the next morning. He had just dismounted before the inn-yard, when a boy put a note into
his hand, and he was so absorbed in its contents, that he did not perceive Philip till after
two greetings had passed unheard. When at length he was recalled, he started, and exclaimed,
rapturously, as he put the note into his cousin's hand,

'See here--it is himself!'

'Who?'

'My uncle. My poor mother's own brother.'

'Sebastian Bach Dixon,' read Philip. 'Ha! it was he who took me for you yesterday.'

'I saw him at the concert--I was sure it could be no other. I came in on purpose to find him,
and here he is waiting for me. Is not it a happy chance?'

'Happy!' echoed Philip, in a far different tone.

'How I have longed for this--for any one who could remember and tell me of her--of my mother--my
poor, dear young mother! And her own brother! I have been thinking of it all night, and he
knows I am here, and is as eager as myself. He is waiting for me,' ended Guy, hurrying off.

'Stop!' said Philip, gravely. 'Think before acting. I seriously advise you to have nothing
to do with this man, at least personally. Let me see him, and learn what he wants.'

'He wants me,' impatiently answered Guy. 'You are not his nephew.'

'Thank heaven!' thought Philip. 'Do you imagine your relationship is the sole cause of his
seeking you?'

'I don't know--I don't care!' cried Guy, with vehemence. 'I will not listen to suspicions of
my mother's brother.'

'It is more than suspicion. Hear me calmly. I speak for your good. I know this man's influence
was fatal to your father. I know he did all in his power to widen the breach with your grandfather.'

'That was eighteen years ago,' said Guy, walking on, biting his lip in a fiery fit of impatience.

'You will not hear. Remember, that his position and associates render him no fit companion
for you. Nay, listen patiently. You cannot help the relationship. I would not have you do otherwise
than assist him. Let him not complain of neglect, but be on your guard. He will either seriously
injure you, or be a burden for life.'

'I have heard you so far--I can hear no more,' said Guy, no longer restraining his impetuosity.
'He is my uncle, that I know, I care for nothing else. Position--nonsense! what has that to
do with it? I will not be set against him.'

He strode off; but in a few moments turned back, overtook Philip, said-- 'Thank you for your
advice. I beg your pardon for my hastiness. You mean kindly, but I must see my uncle.' And,
without waiting for an answer, he was gone.

In short space he was in the little parlour of the music-shop, shaking hands with his uncle,
and exclaiming,--

'I am so glad! I hoped it was you!'

'It is very noble-hearted! I might have known it would be so with the son of my dearest sister
and of my generous friend!' cried Mr. Dixon, with eagerness that had a theatrical air, though
it was genuine feeling that filled his eyes with tears.

'I saw your name last night' continued Guy. 'I would have tried to speak to you at once, but
I was obliged to stay with Mrs. Edmonstone, as I was the only gentleman with her.'

'Ah! I thought it possible you might not be able to follow the dictate of your own heart; but
this is a fortunate conjuncture, in the absence of your guardian.'

Guy recollected Philip's remonstrance, and it crossed him whether his guardian might be of
the same mind; but he felt confident in having told all to Mrs. Edmonstone.

'How did you know I was here?' he asked.

'I learnt it in a most gratifying way. Mr. Redford, without knowing our connection--for on
that I will always be silent--mentioned that the finest tenor he had ever known, in an amateur,
belonged to his pupil, Sir Guy Morville. You can imagine my feelings at finding you so near,
and learning that you had inherited your dear mother's talent and taste.'

The conversation was long, for there was much to hear. Mr. Dixon had kept up a correspondence
at long intervals with Markham, from whom he heard that his sister's child survived, and was
kindly treated by his grandfather; and inquiring again on the death of old Sir Guy, learnt
that he was gone to live with his guardian, whose name, and residence Markham had not thought
fit to divulge. He had been much rejoiced to hear his name from the music-master, and he went
on to tell how he had been misled by the name of Morville into addressing the captain, who
had a good deal of general resemblance to Guy's father, a fine tall young man, of the same
upright, proud deportment. He supposed he was the son of the Archdeacon, and remembering how
strongly his own proceedings had been discountenanced at Stylehurst, had been much disconcerted,
and deeming the encounter a bad omen, had used more caution in his advances to his nephew.
It was from sincere affection that he sought his acquaintance, though very doubtful as to the
reception he might meet, and was both delighted and surprised at such unembarrassed, open-hearted
affection.

The uncle and nephew were not made to understand each other. Sebastian Dixon was a man of little
education, and when, in early youth, his talents had placed him high in his own line, he had
led a careless, extravagant life. Though an evil friend, and fatal counsellor, he had been
truly attached to Guy's father, and the secret engagement, and runaway marriage with his beautiful
sister, had been the romance of his life, promoted by him with no selfish end. He was a proud
and passionate man, and resenting Sir Guy's refusal to receive his sister as a daughter, almost
as much as Sir Guy was incensed at the marriage, had led his brother-in-law to act in a manner
which cut off the hope of reconciliation, and obliged Archdeacon Morville to give up his cause.
He had gloried in supporting his sister and her husband, and enabling them to set the old baronet
at defiance. But young Morville's territorial pride could not brook that he should be maintained,
and especially that his child, the heir of Redclyffe, should be born while he was living at
the expense of a musician. This feeling, aided by a yearning for home, and a secret love for
his father, mastered his resentment; he took his resolution, quarrelled with Dixon, and carried
off his wife, bent with desperation on forcing his father into receiving her.

Sebastian had not surmounted his anger at this step when he learnt its fatal consequences.
Ever since that time, nothing had prospered with him: he had married and sunk himself lower,
and though he had an excellent engagement, the days were past when he was the fashion, and
his gains and his triumphs were not what they had been. He had a long list of disappointments
and jealousies with which to entertain Guy, who, on his side, though resolved to like him,
and dreading to be too refined to be friends with his relations, could not feel as thoroughly
pleased as he intended to have been.

Music was, however, a subject on which they could meet with equal enthusiasm, and by means
of this, together with the aid of his own imagination, Guy contrived to be very happy. He stayed
with his uncle as long as he could, and promised to spend a day with him in London, on his
way to Oxford, in October.

