He sat on the kitchen porch of her poor home that afternoon, quite free from pain. A wonderful
relief had come to him. He seemed lifted into an upper region of peace like one just returned
from infernal levels. The golden air tasted like old wine. The scenes about him were marvelous
to his eyes. His own personality redeemed from recent horror became a delightful thing.

"It is terrible to suffer," he said to Martha Willis. "In the last five days I have suffered."

"As all men must suffer," said the woman resignedly.

"Then you have suffered too? How did you ever get over it, mother?"

She did not tell him, after a look at his face, that some sorrows are indelible.

"We have to get over everything, son. And it is lucky we can do it, without running into an
insane asylum."

"Were your troubles very great, mother?"

"Lots of people about say I deserved them, so they couldn't be very great," she answered, and
he laughed at her queer way of putting it, then checked himself.

"Sorrow is sorrow to him who suffers," he said, "no matter what people say about it. And I
would not wish a beast to endure what I did. I would help the poor devil who suffered, no matter
how much he deserved his pain."

"Only those who suffered feel that way. I am alone now, but this house was crowded thirty years
ago. There was Lucy, and John, and Oliver, and Henry, and my husband, and we were very happy."

"And they are all gone?"

"I shall never see them again here. Lucy died when I needed her most, and Henry, such a fine
boy, followed her before he was twenty. They are safe in the churchyard, and that makes me
happy, for they are mine still, they will always be mine. John was like his father, and both
were drunkards. They beat me in turn, and I was glad when they took to tramping. They're tramping
yet, as I hear, but I haven't seen them in years. And Oliver, the cleverest boy in the school,
and very headstrong, he went to Boston, and from there he went to jail for cheating a bank,
and in jail he died. It was best for him and for me. I took him back to lie beside his brother
and sister, though some said it was a shame. But what can a mother do? Her children are hers
no matter if they turn out wrong."

"And you lived through it all, mother?" said the listener with his face working.

"Once I thought different, but now I know it was for the best," she answered calmly, and chiefly
for his benefit. "I had my days and years even, when I thought some other woman had taken Martha
Willis' place, a poor miserable creature, more like the dead than the live. But I often thought,
since my own self came back, how lucky it was Lucy had her mother to close her eyes, and the
same for poor Henry. And Oliver, he was pretty miserable dying in jail, but I never forgot
what he said to me. 'Mother,' he said, 'it's like dying at home to have you with me here.'
He was very proud, and it cut him that the cleverest of the family should die in jail. And
he said, 'you'll put me beside the others, and take care of the grave, and not be ashamed of
me, mother.' It was the money he left me, that kept this house and me ever since. Now just
think of the way he'd have died if I had not been about to see to him. And I suppose the two
tramps'll come marching in some day to die, or to be buried, and they'll be lucky to find me
living. But anyway I've arranged it with the minister to see to them, and give them a place
with their own, if I'm not here to look after them."

"And you lived through it all!" repeated Horace in wonder.

Her story gave him hope. He must put off thinking until grief had loosened its grip on his
nerves, and the old self had come uppermost. He was determined that the old self should return,
as Martha had proved it could return. He enjoyed its presence at that very moment, though with
a dread of its impending departure. The old woman readily accepted him as a boarder for a few
days or longer, and treated him like a son. He slept that night in a bed, the bed of Oliver
and Henry,--their portraits hanging over the bureau--and slept as deeply as a wearied child.
A blessed sleep was followed by a bitter waking. Something gripped him the moment he rose and
looked out at the summer sun; a cruel hand seized his breast, and weighted it with vague pain.
Deep sighs shook him, and the loom of Penelope began its dreadful weaving of bloody visions,
while the restful pool in the woods tempted him to its cool rest. For a moment he gave way
to the thought that all had ended for him on earth. Then he braced himself for his fight, went
down to chat cheerfully with Martha, and ate her tasty breakfast with relish. He saw that his
manner pleased the simple heart, the strong, heroic mother, the guardian of so many graves.

CHAPTER IV.

THE ROAD TO NOTHINGNESS.

"Whatever trouble you're a-sufferin' from," said Martha, as he was going, "I can tell you one
sure thing about it. Time changes it so's you wouldn't think it was the same trouble a year
afterwards. Now, if you wait, and have patience, and don't do anything one way or another for
a month, you'll be real glad you waited. Once I would have been glad to die the minute after
sorrow came. Now I'm glad I didn't die, for I've learned to see things different somehow."

His heart was being gnawed at that moment by horrible pain, but he caught the force of her
words and took his resolve against the seduction of the pool, that lay now in his vision, as
beautiful as a window of heaven.

"I've come to the same thought," he answered. "I'll not do anything for a month anyway, unless
it's something very wise and good. But I'm going now to think the matter over by myself, and
I know that you have done me great service in helping me to look at my sorrows rightly."

She smiled her thanks and watched him as he struck out for the hills two miles away. Often
had her dear sons left the door for the same walk, and she had watched them with such love
and pride. Oh, life, life!

By the pool which tempted him so strongly Horace sat down to study the problem of his future.

"You are one solution of it," he thought, as he smiled on its beautiful waters. "All others
failing to please, you are here, sure, definite, soft as a bed, tender as Martha, lovely as
a dream. There will be no vulgar outcry when you untie the knot of woe. And because I am sure
of you, and have such confidence in you, I can sit here and defy your present charm."

He felt indeed that he was strong again in spite of pain. As one in darkness, longing for the
light, might see afar the faint glint of the dawn, he had caught a glimpse of hope in the peace
which came to him in Martha's cottage. It could come again. In its light he knew that he could
look upon the past with calmness, and feel no terror even at the name of Sonia. He would encourage
its return. It was necessary for him to fix the present status of the woman whom he had once
called his wife. He could reason from that point logically. She had never been his wife except
by the forms of law. Her treason had begun with his love, and her uncleanness was part of her
nature; so much had he learned on that fearful night which revealed her to him. His wealth
and his name were the prizes which made her traitor to lover and husband. What folly is there
in man, or what enchantment in beauty, or what madness in love, that he could have taken to
his arms the thing that hated him and hated goodness? Should not love, the best of God's gifts,
be wisdom too? Or do men ever really love the object of passion?

Oh, he had loved her! Not a doubt but that he loved her still! Sonia, Sonia! The pool wrinkled
at the sound of her name, as he shrieked it in anguish across the water. There was nothing
in the world so beautiful as she. Her figure rose before him more entrancing than this fairy
lake with its ever-changing loveliness. Its shadows under the trees were in her eyes, its luster
under the sun was the luster of her body! Oh, there was nothing of beauty in it, perfume, grace,
color, its singing and murmuring on the shore, that this perfect sinner had not in her body!

He steadied himself with the thought of old Martha. A dread caught him that the image of this
foul beauty would haunt him thus forever, and be able at any time to drive joy out of him and
madness into him. Some part of him clung to her, and wove a thousand fancies about her beauty.
When the pain of his desolation gripped him the result was invariable: she rose out of the
mist of pain, not like a fury, or the harpy she was, but beautiful as the morning, far above
him, with glorious eyes fixed on the heavens. He thought it rather the vision of his lost happiness
than of her. If she were present then, he would have held her under the water with his hands
squeezing her throat, and so doubly killed her. But what a terror if this vision were to become
permanent, and he should never know ease or the joy of living again! And for a thing so worthless
and so foul!

He steadied himself again with the thought of old Martha, and fixed his mind on the first fact,
the starting-point of his reasoning. She had never been his wife. Her own lips had uttered
that sentence. The law had bound them, and the law protected her now. But she enjoyed a stronger
guard even: his name. It menaced him in each solution of the problem of his future life. He
could do little without smirching that honored name. He might take his own life. But that would
be to punish the innocent and to reward the guilty. His wealth would become the gilding of
adultery, and her joy would become perfect in his death. Imagine him asleep in the grave, while
she laughed over his ashes, crying to herself: always a fool. He might kill her, or him, or
both; a short punishment for a long treason, and then the trail of viperous blood over the
name of Endicott forever; not blood but slime; not a tragedy, but the killing of rats in a
cellar; and perhaps a place for himself in a padded cell, legally mad.

He might desert her, go away without explanation, and never see her again. That would be putting
the burden of shame on his own shoulders, in exile and a branded man for her sake. She would
still have his name, his income, her lover, her place in society, her right to explain his
absence at her pleasure. He could ruin her ruined life by exposing her. Then would come the
divorce court, the publicity, the leer of the mob, the pointed fingers of scorn. Impossible!
Why could he not leave the matter untouched and keep up appearances before the world? Least
endurable of any scheme. He knew that he could never meet her again without killing her, unless
this problem was settled. When he had determined on what he should do, he might get courage
to look on her face once more.

He wore the day out in vain thought, varying the dulness by stamping about the pond, by swimming
across it, by studying its pleasant features. There was magic in it. When he stripped off his
clothes and flung them on the bank part of his grief went with them. When he plunged into the
lovable water, not only did grief leave him, but Horace Endicott returned; that Horace who
once swam a boy in such lakes, and went hilarious with the wild joy of living. He dashed about
the pool in a gay frenzy, revelling in the sensation that tragedy had no part in his life,
that sorrow and shame had not yet once come nigh him. The shore and the donning of his garments
were like clouds pouring themselves out on the sunlit earth. He could hardly bear it, and hung
about listlessly before he could persuade himself to dress.

"Surely you are my one friend," he said to the quiet water. "Is it that you feel certain of
giving me my last sleep, my last kiss as you steal the breath from me? None would do it gentlier.
You give me release from pain, you alone. And you promise everlasting release. I will remember
you if it comes to that."

The pool looked up to him out of deep evening shadows cast upon it by the woods. There was
something human in the variety of its expression. As if a chained soul, silenced forever as
to speech, condemned to a garment of water, struggled to reach a human heart by infinite shades
of beauty, and endless variations of sound. The thought woke his pity, and he looked down at
the water as one looks into the face of a suffering friend. Here were two castaways, cut off
from the highway of life, imprisoned in circumstances as firmly as if behind prison grills.
For him there was hope, for the pool nothing. At this moment its calm face pictured profound
sadness. The black shadow of the woods lay deep on the west bank, but its remotest edge showed
a brilliant green, where the sun lingered on the top fringes of the foliage. Along the east
bank, among the reeds, the sun showed crimson, and all the tender colors of the water plants
faded in a glare of blood. This savage brilliance would soon give way to the gray mist of twilight,
and then to the darkness of night. Even this poor dumb beauty reflected in its helplessly beautiful
way the tragedies of mankind.

As before with the evening came peace and release from pain. Again he sat on Martha's porch
after supper, and thought nothing so beautiful as life; and as he listened to further details
of her life-story, imparted with the wise intention of binding him to life more securely, he
felt that all was not yet lost for him. In his little room while the night was still young,
he opened an old volume at the play of Hamlet and read the story through. Surely he had never
read this play before? He recalled vaguely that it had been studied in college, that some great
actor had played it for him, that he had believed it a wonderful thing; memories now less real
than dreams. For in reading it this night he entered into the very soul of Hamlet, lived his
tortures over again, wept and raved in dumb show with the wretched prince, and flung himself
and his book to the floor in grief at the pitiful ending. He was the Hamlet; youth with a problem
of the horrible; called to solve that which shook the brains of statesmen; dying in utter failure
with that most pathetic dread of a wounded name.

    Oh, good Horatio, what a wounded name.
    Things standing thus unknown, shall live behind me.

For a little he had thought there could not be in the world such suffering as his; how clear
now that his peculiar sorrow was strange to no hour of unfortunate time; an old story, innocence
and virtue--God knew he had no pride in his own virtue--preyed upon by cunning vice. He read
Hamlet again. Oh, what depth of anguish! What a portrayal of grief and madness! Horace shook
with the sobs that nearly choked him. Like the sleek murderer and his plump queen, the two
creatures hatefulest to him lived their meanly prosperous lives on his bounty. What conscience
flamed so dimly in the Danish prince that he could hesitate before his opportunity? Long ago,
had Horace been in his place, the guilty pair would have paid in blood for their lust and ambition.
Hamlet would not kill himself because the Almighty had "fixed his canon 'gainst self-slaughter;"
or because in the sleep of death might rise strange dreams; he would not kill his uncle because
he caught him praying; and he was content with preaching to his mother. Conscience! God! The
two words had not reached his heart or mind once since that awful night. No scruples of the
Lord Hamlet obscured his view or delayed his action.

He had been brought up to a vague respect of religious things. He had even wondered where his
father and mother might now inhabit, as one might wonder of the sea-drowned where their bodies
might be floating; but no nearer than this had heaven come to him. He had never felt any special
influence of religion in his life. In what circumstances had Hamlet been brought up, that religious
feeling should have so serious an effect upon him? Doubtless the prince had been a Catholic
like his recent acquaintance the Monsignor. Ah, he had forgotten that interesting man, who
had told him much worth remembrance. In particular his last words ... what were those last
words? The effort to remember gave him mixed dreams of Hamlet and the Monsignor that night.

In the morning he went off to the pool with the book of Hamlet and the echo of those important
but forgotten words. The lonely water seemed to welcome him when he emerged from the path through
the woods; the underbrush rustled, living things scurried away into bush and wave, the weeds
on the far bank set up a rustling, and little waves leaped on the shore. He smiled as if getting
a friend's morning salute, and began to talk aloud.

"I have brought you another unfortunate," he said, "and I am going to read his thoughts to you."

He opened the book and very tenderly, as if reciting a funeral service, murmured the words
of the soliloquy on suicide. How solemnly sounded in that solitude the fateful phrase "but
that the dread of something after death!" That was indeed the rub! After death there can be
anything; and were it little and slender as a spider's web, it might be too much for the sleep
that is supposed to know no waking and no dreams. After all, he thought, how much are men alike;
for the quandary of Hamlet is mine; I know not what to do. He laid aside the book and gave
himself to idle watching of the pool. A bird dipped his wing into it midway, and set a circle
of wavelets tripping to the shore. One by one they died among the sedges, and there was no
trace of them more.

"That is the thing for which I am looking," he said; "disappearance without consequences ...
just to fade away as if into water or air ... to separate on the spot into original elements
... to be no more what I am, either to myself or others ... then no inquest, no search, no
funeral, no tears ... nothing. And after such a death, perhaps, something might renew the personality
in conditions so far from these, so different, that now and then would never come into contact."

He sighed. What a disappearance that would be. And at that moment the words of the Monsignor
came back to him:

"If at any time you wish to disappear, command me."

A thrill leaped through his dead veins, as of one rising from the dead, but he lay motionless
observing the pool. Before him passed the details of that night at the tavern; the portraits,
the chirping cricket, the vines at the window, the strange theory of the priest about disappearing.
He reviewed that theory as a judge might review a case, so he thought; but in fact his mind
was swinging at headlong speed over the possibilities, and his pulses were bounding. It was
possible, even in this world, to disappear more thoroughly behind the veil of life than under
the veil of death. If one only had the will!

He rose brimming with exultant joy. An intoxication seized him that lifted him at once over
all his sorrow, and placed him almost in that very spot wherein he stood ten days ago; gay,
debonair, light of heart as a boy, untouched by grief or the dread of grief. It was a divine
madness. He threw off his clothes, admired his shapely body for a moment as he poised on the
bank, and flung himself in headlong with a shout. He felt as he slipped through the water but
he did not utter the thought, that if this intoxication did not last he would never leave the
pool. It endured and increased. He swam about like a demented fish. On that far shore where
the reeds grew he paddled through the mud and thrust his head among the sedges kissing them
with laughter. In another place he reached up to the high bank and pulled out a bunch of ferns
which he carried about with him. He roamed about the sandy bottom in one corner, and thrust
his nose and his hands into it, laying his cheek on the smooth surface. He swallowed mouthfuls
of the cool water, and felt that he tasted joy for the first time. He tired his body with divings,
racings, leapings, and shouting.

When he leaped ashore and flung himself in the shade of the wood, the intoxication had increased.
So, not for nothing had he met the priest. That encounter, the delay in the journey, the stay
in the village, the peculiar character of the man, his odd theory, were like elements of an
antidote, compounded to meet that venom which the vicious had injected into his life. Wonderful!
He looked at the open book beside him, and then rose to his knees, with the water dripping
from his limbs. In a loud voice he made a profession of faith.

"I believe in God forever."

CHAPTER V.

THE DOOR IS CLOSED.

Even Martha was startled by the change in him. She had hoped and prayed for it, but had not
looked for it so soon, and did not expect blithe spirits after such despair. In deep joy he
poured out his soul to her all the evening, but never mentioned deeds or names in his tragedy.
Martha hardly thought of them. She knew from the first that this man's soul had been nearly
wrecked by some shocking deviltry, and that the best medicine for him was complete forgetfulness.
Horace felt as a life-prisoner, suddenly set free from the loathsomest dungeon in Turkestan,
might feel on greeting again the day and life's sweet activities. The first thought which surged
in upon him was the glory of that life which had been his up to the moment when sorrow engulfed
him.

"My God," he cried to Martha, "is it possible that men can hold such a treasure, and prize
it as lightly as I did once."

He had thought almost nothing of it, had been glad to get rid of each period as it passed,
and of many persons and scenes connected with childhood, youth, and manhood. Now they looked
to him, these despised years, persons, and scenes, like jewels set in fine gold, priceless
jewels of human love fixed forever in the adamant of God's memory. They were his no more. Happily
God would not forget them, but would treasure them, and reward time and place and human love
according to their deserving. He was full of scorn for himself, who could take and enjoy so
much of happiness with no thought of its value, and no other acknowledgment than the formal
and hasty word of thanks, as each soul laid its offering of love and service at his feet.

"You're no worse than the rest of us," said Martha, "I didn't know, and very few of my friends
ever seemed to know, what good things they had till they lost 'em. It may be that God would
not have us put too high a price on 'em at first, fearin' we'd get selfish about 'em. Then
when they're gone, it turns our thoughts more to heaven, which is the only place where we have
any chance to get 'em back."

When he had got over his self-scorn, the abyss of pain and horror out of which God had lifted
him--this was his belief--showed itself mighty and terrible to his normal vision. Never would
he have believed that a man could fall so far and so awfully, had he not been in those dark
depths and mounted to the sun again. He had read of such pits as exaggerations. He had seen
sorrow and always thought its expression too fantastic for reality. Looking down now into the
noisome tunnel of his own tragedy, he could only wonder that its wretched walls and exit did
not carry the red current of blood mingled with its own foul streaks. Nothing that he had done
in his grief expressed more than a syllable of the pain he had endured. The only full voice
to such grief would have been the wrecking of the world. Strange that he could now look calmly
into this abyss, without the temptation to go mad. But its very ghastliness turned his thought
into another channel. The woman who had led him into the pit, what of her? Free from the tyranny
of her beauty, he saw her with all her loveliness, merely the witch of the abyss, the flower
and fruit of that loathsome depth, in whose bosom filthy things took their natural shape of
horror, and put on beauty only to entrap the innocent of the upper world. Yes, he was entirely
freed from her. Her name sounded to his ears like a name from hell, but it brought no paleness
to his cheeks, no shock to his nerves, no stirring of his pulses. The loom of Penelope was
broken, and forever, he hoped.

"I am free," he said to Martha the next morning, after he had tested himself in various ways.
"The one devil that remained with me is gone, and I feel sure she will never trouble me again."

"It is good to be free," said Martha, "if the thing is evil. I am free from all that worried
me most. I am free from the old fear of death. But sometimes I get sad thinking how little
we need those we thought we could not do without."

"How true that sounds, mother. There is a pity in it. We are not necessary to one another,
though we think so. Every one we love dies, we lose all things as time goes on, and when we
come to old age nothing remains of the past; but just the same we enjoy what we have, and forget
what we had. There is one thing necessary, and that is true life."

"And where can we get that?" said Martha.

"Only from God, I think," he replied.

She smiled her satisfaction with his thought, and he went off to the pool for the last time,
singing in his heart with joy. He would have raised his voice too, but, feeling himself in
the presence of a stupendous thing, he refrained out of reverence. If suffering Hamlet had
only encountered the idea of disappearing, his whole life would have been set right in a twinkling
of the eye. The Dane had an inkling of the solution of his problem when in anguish he cried out,

    Oh, that this too, too solid flesh would melt,
      Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!

But he had not followed his thought to its natural consequence, seeing only death at the end
of reasoning. Horace saw disappearance, and he had now to consider the idea of complete disappearance
with all its effects upon him and others. What would be the effect upon himself? He would vanish
into thin air as far as others were concerned. Whatever of his past the present held would
turn into ashes. There would be no further connection with it. An impassable void would be
created across which neither he nor those he loved could go. He went over in his mind what
he had to give up, and trembled before his chum and his father's sister, two souls that loved
him. Death would not be more terrible. For him, no; but for them? Death would leave them his
last word, look, sigh, his ashes, his resting-place; disappearance would rob them of all knowledge,
and clothe his exit with everlasting sadness. There was no help for it. Many souls more loving
suffered a similar anguish, and survived it. It astonished and even appalled him, if anything
could now appal him, that only two out of the group of his close friends and near acquaintances
seemed near enough in affection and intimacy to mourn his loss. Not one of twenty others would
lose a dinner or a fraction of appetite because he had vanished so pitifully. How rarer than
diamonds is that jewel of friendship!

He had thought once that a hundred friends would have wept bitter tears over his sorrow; of
the number there were left only two!

It was easy for him to leave the old life, now become so hateful; but there was terror in putting
on the new, to which he must ally himself as if born into it, like a tree uprooted from its
native soil and planted far from its congenial elements in the secret, dark, sympathetic places
of the earth. He must cut himself off more thoroughly than by death. The disappearance must
be eternal, unless death removed Sonia Westfield before circumstances made return practically
impossible; his experience of life showed that disagreeable people rarely die while the microbe
of disagreeableness thrives in them.

What would be the effect of his disappearance on Sonia and her lover? The question brought
a smile to his wan face. She had married his name and his money, and would lose both advantages.
He would take his property into exile to the last penny. His name without his income would
be a burden to her. His disappearance would cast upon her a reproach, unspoken, unseen, a mere
mist enwrapping her fatally, but not to be dispelled. Her mouth would be shut tight; no chance
for innuendoes, lest hint might add suspicion to mystery. She would be forced to observe the
proprieties to the letter, and the law would not grant her a divorce for years. In time she
would learn that her only income was the modest revenue from her own small estate; that he
had taken all with him into darkness; and still she would not dare to tell the damaging fact
to her friends. She would be forced to keep up appearances, to spend money in a vain search
for him, or his wealth; suspecting much yet knowing nothing, miserably certain that he was
living somewhere in luxury, and enjoying his vengeance.

He no longer thought of vengeance. He did not desire it. The mills of the gods grind out vengeance
enough to glut any appetite. By the mere exercise of his right to disappear he gave the gods
many lashes with which to arm the furies against her. He was satisfied with being beyond her
reach forever. Now that he knew just what to do, now that with his plan had come release from
depression, now that he was himself again almost, he felt that he could meet Sonia Westfield
and act the part of a busy husband without being tempted to strangle her. In her very presence
he would put in motion the machinery which would strip her of luxury and himself of his present
place in the world.

The process took about two months. The first step was a visit to Monsignor O'Donnell, a single
visit, and the first result was a single letter, promptly committed to the flames. Then he
went home with a story of illness, of a business enterprise which had won his fancy, of necessary
visits to the far west; which were all true, but not in the sense in which Sonia took these
details. They not only explained his absence, but also excused the oddity of his present behavior.
He hardly knew how he behaved with her. He did not act, nor lose self-confidence. He had no
desire to harm her. He was simply indifferent, as if from sickness. As the circumstances fell
in with her inclinations, though she could not help noticing his new habits and peculiarities,
she made no protest and very little comment. He saw her rarely, and in time carried himself
with a sardonic good humor as surprising to him as inexplicable to her. She seemed as far from
him as if she had suddenly turned Eskimo. Once or twice a sense of loathing invaded him, a
flame of hatred blazed up, soon suppressed. He was complete master of himself, and his reward
was that he could be her judge, with the indifference of a dignitary of the law. The disposal
of his property was accomplished with perfect secrecy, his wife consenting on the plea of a
better investment.

So the two months came to an end in peace, and he stood at last before that door which he himself
had opened into the new future. Once closed no other hand but his could open it. A time might
come when even to his hand the hinge would not respond. Two persons knew his secret in part,
the Monsignor and a woman; but they knew nothing more than that he did not belong to them from
the beginning, and more than that they would never know, if he carried out his plan of disappearance
perfectly. Whatever the result, he felt now that the crisis of his life had come.

At the last moment, however, doubts worried him about thus cutting himself off from his past
so utterly, and adopting another personality. Some deep-lying repugnance stirred him against
the double process. Would it not be better to live under his own name in remote countries,
and thus be ready, if fate allowed, to return home at the proper time? Perhaps. In that case
he must be prepared for her pursuit, her letters, her chicanery, which he could not bear. Her
safety and his own, if the stain of blood was to be kept off the name of Endicott, demanded
the absolute cessation of all relationship between them. Yet that did not contain the whole
reason. Lurking somewhere in those dark depths of the soul, where the lead never penetrates,
he found the thought of vengeance. After all he did wish to punish her and to see her punishment.
He had thought to leave all to the gods, but feared the gods would not do all their duty. If
they needed spurring, he would be near to provide new whips and fresher scorpions. He shook
off hesitation when the last day of his old life came, and made his farewells with decision.
A letter to his aunt and to his friend, bidding each find no wonder and no worry about him
in the events of the next month, and lose no time in searching for him; a quiet talk with old
Martha on her little verandah; a visit to the pool on a soft August night; and an evening spent
alone in his father's house; these were his leave-takings.

They would never find a place in his life again, and he would never dare to return to them;
since the return of the criminal over the path by which he escaped into secrecy gave him into
the hands of his pursuers. The old house had become the property of strangers. The offset to
this grief was the fact that Sonia would never dishonor it again with her presence. Just now
dabbling in her sins down by the summer sea, she was probably reading the letter which he had
sent her about business in Wisconsin. Later a second letter would bear her the sentence of
a living death. The upright judge had made her the executioner. What a long tragedy that would
be! He thought of it as he wandered about the lovely rooms of his old home; what long days
of doubt before certainty would come; what horror when bit by bit the scheme of his vengeance
unfolded: what vain, bitter, furious struggling to find and devour him; and then the miserable
ending when time had proved his disappearance absolute and perfect!

At midnight, after a pilgrimage to every loved spot in the household shrine, he slipped away
unseen and struck out on foot over the fields for a distant railway station. For two months
he lived here and there in California, while his beard grew and his thoughts devoured him.
Then one evening he stepped somewhat feebly from the train in New York, crawled into a cab,
and drove to No. 127 Mulberry Street. The cabman helped him up the steps and handed him in
the door to a brisk old woman, who must have been an actress in her day; for she gave a screech
at the sight of him, and threw her arms about him crying out, so that the cabman heard, "Artie,
alanna, back from the dead, back from the dead, acushla machree." Then the door closed, and
Arthur Dillon was alone with his mother; Arthur Dillon who had run away to California ten years
before, and died there, it was supposed; but he had not died, for behold him returned to his
mother miraculously. She knew him in spite of the changes, in spite of thin face, wild eyes,
and strong beard. The mother-love is not to be deceived by the disguise of time. So Anne Dillon
hugged her Arthur with a fervor that surprised him, and wept copious tears; thinking more of
the boy that might have come back to her than of this stranger. He lay in his lonely, unknown
grave, and the caresses meant for him had been bought by another.

RESURRECTION.

CHAPTER VI.

ANOTHER MAN'S SHOES.

As he laid aside his outer garments, Horace felt the joy of the exhausted sailor, entering
port after a dangerous voyage. He was in another man's shoes; would they fit him? He accepted
the new house and the new mother with scarcely a comment. Mrs. Anne Dillon knew him only as
a respectable young man of wealth, whom misfortune had driven into hiding. His name and his
history she might never learn. So Monsignor had arranged it. In return for a mother's care
and name she was to receive a handsome income. A slim and well-fashioned woman, dignified,
severe of feature, her light hair and fair complexion took away ten from her fifty years; a
brisk manner and a low voice matched her sharp blue eyes and calm face; her speech had a slight
brogue; fate had ordained that an Endicott should be Irish in his new environment. As she flew
about getting ready a little supper, he dozed in the rocker, thinking of that dear mother who
had illumined his youth like a vision, beautiful, refined, ever delightful; then of old Martha,
rough, plain, and sad, but with the spirit and wit of the true mother, to cherish the sorrowful.
In love for the child these mothers were all alike. He felt at home, and admired the quickness
and skill with which Anne Dillon took up her new office. He noted everything, even his own
shifting emotions. This was one phase of the melancholy change in him: the man he had cast
off rarely saw more than pleased him, but the new Arthur Dillon had an alert eye for trifles.

"Son dear," said his mother, when they sat down to tea, "we'll have the evenin' to ourselves,
because I didn't tell a soul what time you were comin', though of course they all knew it,
for I couldn't keep back such good news; that after all of us thinkin' you dead, you should
turn out to be alive an' well, thank God. So we can spend the evenin' decidin' jist what to
do an' say to-morrow. The first thing in the mornin' Louis Everard will be over to see you.
Since he heard of your comin', he's been jist wild, for he was your favorite; you taught him
to swim, an' to play ball, an' to skate, an' carried him around with you, though he's six years
younger than you. He's goin' to be a priest in time with the blessin' o' God. Then his mother
an' sister, perhaps Sister Mary Magdalen, too; an' your uncle Dan Dillon, on your father's
side, he's the only relative you have. My folks are all dead. He's a senator, an' a leader
in Tammany Hall, an' he'll be proud of you. You were very fond of him, because he was a prize-fighter
in his day, though I never thought much of that, an' was glad when he left the business for
politics."

"And how am I to know all these people, mother?"

"You've come home sick," she said placidly, "an' you'll stay in bed for the next week, or a
month if you like. As each one comes I'll let you know jist who they are. You needn't talk
any more than you like, an' any mistakes will be excused, you've been away so long, an' come
home so sick."

They smiled frankly at each other, and after tea she showed him his room, a plain chamber with
sacred pictures on the walls and a photograph of Arthur Dillon over the bureau.

"Jist as you left it ten years ago," she said with a sob. "An' your picture as you looked a
month before you went away."

The portrait showed a good-looking and pugnacious boy of sixteen, dark-haired and large-eyed
like himself; but the likeness between the new and the old Arthur was not striking; yet any
one who wished or thought to find a resemblance might have succeeded. As to disposition, Horace
Endicott would not have deserted his mother under any temptation.

"What sort of a boy was--was I at that age, mother?"

