    From Virgin's womb to us this day did spring
      The precious seed that only saved man;
    This day let man rejoice and sweetly sing,
      Since on this day salvation first began.
    This day did Christ man's soul from death remove,
    With glorious saints to dwell in heaven above.

                          2.

    This day to man came pledge of perfect peace,
      This day to man came love and unity,
    This day man's grief began for to surcease,
      This day did man receive a remedy
    For each offence, and every deadly sin,
    With guilt of heart that erst he wander'd in.

                          3.

    In Christ his flock let love be surely placed,
      From Christ his flock let concord hate expel,
    In Christ his flock let love be so embraced,
      As we in Christ, and Christ in us, may dwell.
    Christ is the author of all unity,
    From whence proceedeth all felicity.

                          4.

    O sing unto this glittering glorious King,
      And praise His name let every living thing;
    Let heart and voice, let bells of silver, ring,
      The comfort that this day to us did bring;
    Let lute, let shawm, with sound of sweet delight,
    The joy of Christ his birth this day recite.

BUON. ERIC.

A NOTE FOR LITTLE BOYS.

In order that all good little boys who take an interest in the "NOTES AND QUERIES" may know
how much more lucky it is for them to be little boys now, than it was in the ancient times,
I would wish them to be informed of the cruel manner in which even good little boys were liable
to be treated by the law of the Ripuarians. When a sale of land took place it was required
that there should be twelve witnesses, and with these as many boys, in whose presence the price
of the land should be paid, and its formal surrender take place; and then the boys were beaten,
and their ears pulled, so that the pain thus inflicted upon them should make an impression
upon their memory, and that they might, if necessary, be afterwards witnesses as to the sale
and delivery of the land. (Lex Ripuarium LX., de Traditionibus et Testibus.) In a note of Balucius
upon this passage he states:

    "A practice somewhat similar to this prevails in our our times, for
    in some of the provinces, whenever a notorious criminal is condemned
    to death, parents bring their sons with them to the place of
    execution, and, at the moment that he is put to death, they whip
    their children with rods, so that being thus excited by their own
    sufferings, and by seeing the punishment inflicted on another for
    his sins, they may ever bear in mind how necessary it is for them,
    in their progress through life, to be prudent and virtuous."--Rev.
    Gall. et Franc. Script., vol. iv. p. 277. n.e.

W.B. MACCABE.

SIMILARITY OF TRADITIONS.

Having recently met with some curious instances of the extent to which the same or similar
traditions extend themselves, not only in our own country, but in Wales and France, I have
"made a note" of them for your service.

Burying in the church wall is supposed to be burying in neutral ground.

In the north wall of the church of Tremeirchion, near the banks of the Elwy, North Wales (described
by Pennant, vol. ii. p. 139.), is the tomb of a former vicar, Daffydd Ddu, or the black of
Hiradduc, who was vicar of the parish, and celebrated as a necromancer, flourishing about 1340.
He is said to have died A.D. 1086. Under the feet of the figure {514} was a "cross flourie,
and under the cross a serpent" (Weever, p. 549.), and the inscription is thus translated in
Chauncy's Hertfordshire, p. 143:

    "Nothing of Cadmus nor St. George, those names
     Of great renown, survives them, but their fames;
     Time was so sharp set as to make no bones
     Of theirs nor of their monumental stones,
     But Shonke one serpent kills, t'other defies,
     And in this wall as in a fortress lyes."

Whilst in the north wall of Rouen Cathedral is the tomb of an early archbishop, who having
accidentally killed a man by hitting him with a soup ladle, because the soup given by the servant
to the poor was of an inferior quality, thought himself unworthy of a resting-place within
the church, and disliking to be buried without, was interred in the wall itself.

Miraculous Cures for Lameness.--The holy well Y fynnon fair, or Our Lady's Well, near Pont
yr allt Gôch, close to the Elwy, has to this day the reputation of curing lameness so thoroughly,
that those who can reach it walking on crutches may fling their crutches away on their return
home. Welsh people still come several miles over the hills to this holy spring. A whole family
was there when I visited its healing waters last month.

The same virtue is ascribed at Rouen to a walk to the altar at St. Katherine's Church, at the
top of St. Katherine's Hill, where the cast-off crutches have been preserved. In the latter
case something less than a miracle may account for the possibility of going away without crutches;
for they may be required to mount to a lofty eminence, and may well be dispensed with on coming
down: but as this supposition would lessen the value of a tradition implicitly believed, of
course all sensible men will reject it at once.

WM. DURANT COOPER.

81. Guilford Street.

PIXEY LEGENDS.

In reference to your correspondent H.G.T.'s article on pixies (Vol. ii., p. 475.), allow me
to say that I have read the distich which he quotes in a tale to the following effect:--In
one of the southern counties of England--(all the pixey tales which I have heard or read have
their seat laid in the south of England)--there lived a lass who was courted and wed by a man
who, after marriage, turned out to be a drunkard, neglecting his work, which was that of threshing,
thereby causing his pretty wife to starve. But after she could bear this no longer, she dressed
herself in her husband's clothes (whilst he slept off the effects of his drunkenness), and
went to the barn to do her husband's work. On the morning of the second day, when she went
to the barn, she found a large pile of corn threshed, which she had not done; and so she found,
for three or four days, her pile of corn doubled. One night she determined to watch and see
who did it, and carrying her intention into practice, she saw a little pixey come into the
barn with a tiny flail, with which he set to work so vigorously that he soon threshed a large
quantity. During his work he sang,

    "Little Pixey, fair and slim,
     Without a rag to cover him."

The next day the good woman made a complete suit of miniature clothes, and hung them up behind
the barn door, and watched to see what pixey would do. I forgot to mention that he hung his
flail behind the door when he had done with it.

At the usual time the pixey came to work, went to the door to take down his flail, and saw
the suit of clothes, took them down, and put them on him, and surveyed himself with a satisfied
air, and sang

    "Pixey fine, and pixie gay.
     Pixey now must fly away."

It then flew away, and she never saw it more.

In this tale the word was invariably spelt "pixey."

TYSIL.

Pixies.--The puckie-stone is a rock above the Teign, near Chagford. In the Athenæum I mentioned
the rags in which the pixies generally appear. In A Narrative of some strange Events that took
place in Island Magee and Neighbourhood in 1711, is this description of a spirit that troubled
the house of Mr. James Hattridge:

    "About the 11th of December, 1710, when the aforesaid Mrs. Hattridge
    was sitting at the kitchen-fire, in the evening, before daylight
    going, a little boy (as she and the servants supposed) came in and
    sat down beside her, having an old black bonnet on his head, with
    short black hair, a half-worn blanket about him, trailing on the
    ground behind him, and a torn black vest under it. He seemed to be
    about ten or twelve years old, but he still covered his face,
    holding his arm with a piece of the blanket before it. She desired
    to see his face, but he took no notice of her. Then she asked him
    several questions; viz., if he was cold or hungry? If he would have
    any meat? Where he came from, and where he was going? To which he
    made no answer, but getting up, danced very nimbly, leaping higher
    than usual, and then ran out of the house as far as the end of the
    garden, and sometimes into the cowhouse, the servants running after
    him to see where he would go, but soon lost sight of him; but when
    they returned, he would be close after them in the house, which he
    did above a dozen of times. At last the little girl, seeing her
    master's dog coming in, said, 'Now my master is coming he will take
    a course with this troublesome creature,' upon which he immediately
    went away, and troubled them no more till the month of February,
    1711."

This costume is appropriate enough for an Irish spirit; but here may possibly be some connexion
with the ragged clothes of the Pixies. (Comp. "Tatrman," Deutsche Mythol., p. 470.; and Canciani's
note "De Simulachris de Pannis factis," Leges Barbar., iii. p. 108.; Indic. Superst.) The common
story of Brownie and his clothes is, I suppose, connected. {515}

In some parts of Devonshire the pixies are called "derricks," evidently the A.-S. "doeorg."
In Cornwall it is believed that wherever the pixies are fond of resorting, the depths of the
earth are rich in metal. Very many mines have been discovered by their singing.

R.J.K.

THE POOL OF THE BLACK HOUND.

In the parish of Dean Prior is a narrow wooded valley, watered by a streamlet, that in two
or three places falls into cascades of considerable beauty. At the foot of one of these is
a deep hollow called the Hound's Pool. Its story is as follows.

There once lived in the hamlet of Dean Combe a weaver of great fame and skill. After long prosperity
he died, and was buried. But the next day he appeared sitting at the loom in his chamber, working
diligently as when he was alive. His sons applied to the parson, who went accordingly to the
foot of the stairs, and heard the noise of the weaver's shuttle in the room above. "Knowles!"
he said, "come down; this is no place for thee." "I will," said the weaver, "as soon as I have
worked out my quill," (the "quill" is the shuttle full of wool). And in a moment it became
a black hound. "Follow me," said the vicar; and it followed him to the gate of the wood. And
when they came there, it seemed as if all the trees in the wood were "coming together," so
great was the wind. Then the vicar took a nutshell with a hole in it, and led the hound to
the pool below the waterfall. "Take this shell," he said; "and when thou shalt have dipped
out the pool with it, thou mayst rest--not before." And at mid-day, or at midnight, the hound
may still be seen at its work.

R.J.K.

POPULAR RHYMES.

The following popular rhymes may perhaps amuse some of your readers. They are not to be found
in the article "Days Lucky or Unlucky," in Brand's Popular Antiquities, or in Sir Henry Ellis's
notes (see his edition, vol. ii. p. 27.), and perhaps have never been printed:--

 Days of the Week.--Marriage.

    "Monday for wealth,
     Tuesday for health,
    Wednesday the best day of all;
     Thursday for crosses,
     Friday for losses,
    Saturday no luck at all."

         Moon.

    "Saturday new,
     And Sunday full,
     Never was fine,
     And never wool."

  Days of the Week.--Birth.

     How to treat a Horse.

    "Up the hill, urge him not;
     Down the bill, drive him not;
     Cross the flat, spare him not;
     To the hostler, trust him not."

  How to sow Beans.

    "One for the mouse,
     One for the crow,
     One to rot,
     One to grow."

    January Weather.

    "When the days lengthen,
    The colds strengthen."

Two German proverbial distiches, similar to the last, are given in Körte's Sprichwörter, p. 548.:

    "Wenn de Dage fangt an to längen,
     Fangt de Winter an to strengen."

      "Wenn die Tage langen,
       Kommt der Winter gegangen."

With the first set of rhymes, we may compare the following verses on washing on the successive
days of the week, in Halliwell's Nursery Rhymes of England, p. 42. ed.

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

"Passilodion" and "Berafrynde."--Have these terms, which play so memorable a part in the "Tale
of King Edward and the Shepherd" {516} (Hartshorne's Ancient Metrical Tales) been explained?
The shepherd's instructions (pp. 48, 49.) seem more zealous than luminous; but it has occurred
to me that perhaps "passelodion," "passilodyon," or "passilodion" may have some reference to
the ancient custom of drinking from a peg-tankard, since [Greek: passalos] means a peg, and
[Greek: passalôdia] would be a legitimate pedantic rendering of peg-song, or peg-stave, and
might be used to denote an exclamation on having reached the peg.

H.G.T.

Inscription on an Alms-dish.--In Bardsea Church, Island of Furness, is an alms-dish(?) of a
large size, apparently very old, gilt, and bearing the following inscription:--

    "WYLT : GHY : LANGHELEVEN : SOO : ERT : GODT :
       ENDE : HOOVT : ZYN : GEBAT : VORWAR."

Bardsea Church is recently erected in a district taken out of Urswick parish.

Can any of your readers give an explanation of the inscription?

F.B. RELTON.

[This is another specimen of the alms-dishes, of which several have been described in our First
Volume. The legend may be rendered, If thou wilt live long, honour God, and above all keep
His commandments.]

The Use of the French Word "savez."--About fifty years ago the use of the French word savez,
from the verb savoir, to know, was in general use (and probably is so at the present time)
among the negroes in the island of Barbadoes,--"Me no savez, Massa," for, "I do not know, Master
(or Sir)." It occurred to the writer at that time as a very singular fact, because the French
had never occupied that island; nor is he aware of any French negroes having been introduced
there. He had also been informed of its use in other places, but made no note of it. In the
Morning Herald of the 7th instant there is a statement that the Chinese at Canton, speaking
a little English, make use of the same word. Can any of your readers give an explanation of this?

J.F.

Job's Luck.--I send you another version of Job's luck, in addition to those that have lately
appeared in "NOTES AND QUERIES:"

    "The devil engaged with Job's patience to battle,
     Tooth and nail strove to worry him out of his life;
     He robb'd him of children, slaves, houses, and cattle,
     But, mark me, he ne'er thought of taking his wife.

    "But heaven at length Job's forbearance rewards,
     At length double wealth, double honour arrives,
     He doubles his children, slaves, houses, and herds,
     But we don't hear a word of a couple of wives."

A.M.

The Assassination of Mountfort in Norfolk street, Strand.--The murder of Mountfort is related
with great particularity in Galt's Lives of the Players, and is also detailed in, if I recollect
aright, Mr. Jesse's London and its Celebrities; but in neither account is the following anecdote
mentioned, the purport of which adds, if possible, to the blackness of Mohun's character:--

    "Mr. Shorter, Horace Walpole's mother's father, was walking down
    Norfolk Street in the Strand, to his house there, just before poor
    Mountfort the player was killed in that street by assassins hired by
    Lord Mohun. This nobleman lying in for his prey, came up and
    embraced Mr. Shorter by mistake, saying 'Dear Mountfort.' It was
    fortunate that he was instantly undeceived, for Mr. Shorter had
    hardly reached his house before the Murder took
    place."--Walpoliana, vol. ii. p. 97., 2nd ed.

J.B.C.

The Oldenburgh Horn (Vol. ii., p. 417.) is preserved amongst the antiquities in the Gallery
of the King of Denmark at Copenhagen. It is of silver gilt, and ornamented in paste with enamel.
It is considered by the Danish antiquaries to be of the time of Christian I., in the latter
half of the fifteenth century. There are engraved on it coats of arms and inscriptions, which
show that it was made for King Christian I., in honour of the three kings, or wise men, on
whose festival he used it, at Cologne.

W.C. TREVELYAN.

Wallington, Dec. 19. 1850.

[We avail ourselves of the opportunity afforded by Sir Walter Trevelyan's communication to
add from Vulpius (Handwörterbuch der Mythologie) the following additional references to representations
and descriptions of this celebrated horn--which is there said (p. 184.) to have been found
in 1639:--Schneider, Saxon. Vetust. p. 314.; Winkelmann's Oldenburgische Chronik. s. 59.; S.
Meyer, Vom Oldenburgischen Wunderhorne, Bremen, 1757.]

Curious Custom.--In 1833 the late Record Commissioners issued Circular Questions to the Municipal
Corporations of England and Wales, requesting various information; among such questions was
the following:--"Do any remarkable customs prevail, or have any remarkable customs prevailed
within memory, in relation to the ceremonies accompanying the choice of corporate officers,
annual processions, feasts, &c., not noticed in the printed histories or accounts of your borough?
Describe them, if there be such."

To this question the borough of Chippenham, Wilts, replied as follows:--"The corporation dine
together twice a-year, and pay for it themselves!" (Report of Record Commissioners, 1837, p. 442.)

J.E.

Kite (French, "Cerf-volant").--Some years ago, when reading Dr. Paris' popular work called
Philosophy in Sport made Science in Earnest, 5th edition, London, J. Murray, 1842, I observed
that the author could not explain the meaning of the French term "cerf-volant," applied to
the toy so well known among boys in England as a "kite," and in Scotland as a "dragon." The
following passages will solve this mystery: {517}

    "Cerf-volant. Scarabæus lucanus. Sorte d'insecte volant qui porte
    des cornes dentelées, comme celles du cerf.

    "Cerf-volant. Ludicra scarabei lucani effigies. On donne ce nom à
    une sorte de joüet d'enfans qui est composé de quelques bâtons
    croisés sur lesquels on étend du papier, et exposant cette petite
    machine à l'air, le moindre vent la fait voler. On la retient et on
    la tire comme l'on veut, par le moyen d'une longue corde qui y est
    attachée."--See Dictionnaire de la Langue Françoise, de Pierre
    Richelet; à Amsterdam, 1732.

In Kirby and Spence's Entomology, vol. ii. p. 224., they mention "the terrific and protended
jaws of the stag-beetle of Europe, the Lucanus Cervus of Linnæus."

The "toothed horns" alluded to by Richelet are represented by the pieces of stiff paper fastened
at intervals, and at right angles, to the string-tail of the toy kite, or dragon, so much delighted
in by boys at certain seasons of the year in England and Scotland.

G.F.G.

Edinburgh.

Epitaph on John Randal.--As a counterpart to Palise's death, I have sent a Warwickshire epitaph,
taken from Watford Magna churchyard, written about the same period:

    "Here old John Randal lies, who counting by his sale,
     Lived three score years and ten, such virtue was in ale;
     Ale was his meat, ale was his drink, ale did his heart revive,
     And could he still have drunk his ale, he still had been alive."

J.R.

Playing Cards.--As a rider to THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT'S Query respecting his playing cards (Vol.
ii., p. 462.), I would throw out a suggestion to all your readers for notices of similar emblematic
playing cards: whether such were ever used for playing with? what period so introduced? and
where? as both France and Spain lay claim to their first introduction. I see that Mr. Caton
exhibited at one of the meetings of the Archæological Institute this season a curious little
volume of small county maps, numbered so as to serve as a pack of cards (described more fully
in the Archæological Journal for September, 1850, p 306.), and which I regret I did not see.

W.H.P.

Wanstead, Dec. 13. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

DRAGONS: THEIR ORIGIN.

When passing through the city of Brünn, in Moravia, rather more than a year ago, my attention
was drawn to the Lindwurm or dragon, preserved there from a very remote period. This monster,
according to tradition, was invulnerable, like his brother of Wantley, except in a few well-guarded
points, and from his particular predilection in favour of veal and young children, was the
scourge and terror of the neighbourhood. The broken armour and well-picked bones of many doughty
knights, scattered around the entrance to the cave he inhabited, testified to the impunity
with which he had long carried on his depredations, in spite of numerous attempts to destroy
him. Craftiness, however, at last prevailed where force had proved of no effect, and the Lindwurm
fell a victim to the skill of a knight, whose name I believe has been handed down to posterity.
The mode adopted by the warrior to deceive his opponent, was to stuff, as true to nature as
possible, with unslaked lime, the skin of a freshly killed calf, which he laid before the dragon's
cave. The monster, smelling the skin, is said to have rushed out and instantly to have swallowed
the fatal repast, and feeling afterwards, as may be readily expected, a most insatiable thirst,
hurried off to a neighbouring stream, where he drank until the water, acting upon the lime,
caused him to burst. The inhabitants, on learning the joyful news, carried the knight and the
Lindwurm in triumph into the city of Brünn, where they have ever since treasured up the memento
of their former tyrant. The animal, or reptile, thus preserved, is undoubtedly of the crocodile
or alligator species, although I regret it was not in my power to examine it more particularly,
evening having set in when I saw it in the arched passage leading to the town-hall of the city
where it has been suspended. I fear also that any attempt to count the distinguishing bones
would be fruitless, the scaly back having been covered with a too liberal supply of pitch,
with the view to protection from the weather.

Have any of your readers seen this Lindwurm under more favourable circumstances than myself,
and can they throw any light on the genus to which it belongs?

May not the various legends respecting dragons, &c., have their origin from similar circumstances
to those of this Brünn Lindwurm, which I take to leave strong proof of fact, the body being
there? Perhaps some of our correspondents may have it in their power to give further corroborative
evidence of the former existence of dragons under the shape of crocodiles. The description
of the Wantley dragon tallies with that of the crocodile very nearly.

R.S., Jun.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOAN SANDERSON, OR THE CUSHION DANCE; AND BAB AT THE BOWSTER.

Can any of your numerous valuable correspondents give me the correct date, or any clue to it,
of the above dance. There is little doubt of its great antiquity. The dance is begun by a single
person (either a woman or man), who {518} dances about the room with a cushion in his hand,
and at the end of the tune stops and sings:

    "This dance it will no further go!"

            [The Musician answers.]

    "I pray you, good sir, why say you so?"

                     [Man.]

    "Because Joan Sanderson will not come to!"

                   [Music.]

    "She must come to, and she shall come to,
     And she must come whither she will or no."

He now lays down the cushion before a woman, on which she kneels, and he kisses her, singing:

    "Welcome, Joan Sanderson, welcome, welcome."

She rises with the cushion, and both dance about, singing:

    "Prinkum-prankum is a fine dance,
     And shall we go dance it once again,
           And once again,
     And shall we go dance it once again?"

Then making a stop, the woman sings, as before:

    "This dance it will no further go!"

                    [Music.]

    "I pray you, madam, why say you so?"

                   [Woman.]

    "Because John Sanderson will not come to."

                   [Music.]

    "He must come to," &c.

And so she lays down the cushion before a man, who, kneeling, upon it, salutes her, she singing:

    "Welcome, John Sanderson," &c.

Then, he taking up the cushion, they take hands, and dance round, singing as before: and this
they do till the whole company is taken into the ring. Then the cushion is laid down before
the first man, the woman singing, "This dance," &c. (as before), only instead of "Come to,"
they sing "Go fro," and instead of "Welcome, John Sanderson," &c., they sing, "Farewell, John
Sanderson, farewell," &c.: and so they go out, one by one, as they came in. This dance was
at one time highly popular, both at court and in the cottage, in the latter of which, in some
remote country villages, it is still danced. Selden, in his Table Talk, thus refers to it:

    "The court of England is much altered. At a solemn dancing, first
    you have the grave measures, then the Corvantoes and the
    Galliards, and this is kept up with ceremony, at length to
    Trenchmore and the Cushion dance; and then all the company dance,
    lord and groom, lady and kitchen-maid, no distinction. Jamieson, in his
Dictionary, describes it as a very old Scottish dance, and generally
the last danced at weddings and merry-makings. It is now danced with a
handkerchief in place of a cushion; and no words are used. That a rhyme
was formerly used, there is little doubt. Query, What were the words of
this rhyme?

MAC.

Charminster.

       *       *       *       *       *

DID BUNYAN KNOW HOBBES?

I observe a querist wishes to know the artist of the portrait of Bunyan prefixed to his works.
I can only myself conjecture Cooper, the miniature painter, but I am also curious about the
great author of The Pilgrim's Progress.

First, is Bunyan really the author of "Heart's Ease in Heart's Trouble," and the "Visions of
Heaven and Hell," published in his works, and perhaps, excepting "Grace Abounding," the most
popular of his received miscellanies? I think not. My reasons are these. The style is very
different, and much poorer than his best works. In the "Progress," when he quotes Latin, he
modestly puts a side-note [The Latin that I borrow]. In the two tracts mentioned he flashes
out a bit of Latin two or three times where he might have much better used English, or in a
superfluous way. Also it is curious to know that in his "Visions of Hell" he meets Leviathan
Hobbes, the philosopher of Malmesbury. The passage is curious, for if true, and written by
Bunyan, it proves him to be personally acquainted with Hobbes. I extract it. After hearing
his name called out, Epenetus (the author and visitant of the infernal regions) naturally inquires
who it is that calls him. He is answered,--

    "I was once well acquainted with you on earth, and had almost
    persuaded you to be of my opinion. I am the author of that
    celebrated book, so well known by the title of Leviathan!

    "'What! the great Hobbes,' said I, 'are you come hither? Your voice
    is so much changed, I did not know it.'"

The dialogue which ensues is not worth quoting, as it is from our purpose. But I would ask
when was the time when Bunyan "was nearly persuaded to be of Hobbes' opinion?" If he is the
author and speaks the truth (and he is notoriously truthful), it must have been in early youth;
but surely the philosopher of Malmesbury could not know an obscure tinker. Bunyan cannot speak
metaphorically, for he had not read the Leviathan, since he mentions that his only reading
in early life, i.e. when he was likely to have embraced freethinking, was the Practice of Piety,
and the Plain Man's Pathway to Heaven, his wife's dowry. {519} Moreover, he notes particularly
the change of voice, a curious circumstance, which testifies personal acquaintance. Hobbes
died in 1679; Bunyan in 1688. Were they intimate?

JAS. H. FRISWELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Boiling to Death.--Some of your correspondents have communicated instances where burning to
death was inflicted as a punishment; and MR. GATTY suggests that it would prove an interesting
subject for inquiry, at what period such barbarous inflictions ceased. In Howe's Chronicle
I find the two following notices:

    "The 5th of Aprill (1532) one Richard Rose, a cooke, was boiled in
    Smithfielde, for poisoning of divers persons, to the number of
    sixteen or more, at ye Bishop of Rochester's place, amongst the
    which Benet Curwine, gentleman, was one, and hee intended to have
    poisoned the bishop himselfe, but hee eate no potage that day,
    whereby hee escaped. Marie the poore people that eate of them, many
    of them died."--Howe's Chronicle, p. 559.

    "The 17th March (1542) Margaret Dany, a maid, was boiled in
    Smithfield for poisoning of three households that shee had dwelled
    in."--Howe's Chronicle, p. 583.

Query, was this punishment peculiar to cooks guilty of poisoning? And when did the latest instance
occur?

L.H.K.

Meaning of "Mocker."--To-day I went into the cottage of an old man, in the village of which
I am curate, and finding him about to cut up some wood, and he being very infirm, I undertook
the task for him, and chopped up a fagot for his fire.

During the progress of my work, the old fellow made the following observation:--

    "Old Nannie Hawkins have got a big stick o' wood, and she says as I
    shall have him for eight pence. If I could get him, I'd soon
    mocker him."

Upon my asking him the meaning of the word mocker, he informed me it meant to divide or cleave
in pieces; but, not being "a scholar" as he termed it, he could not tell me how to spell it,
so I know not whether the orthography I have adopted is correct or not.

Can any of your readers give me a clue to the derivation of this word? I certainly never heard
it before.

I ought perhaps to state, that this is a country parish in Herefordshire.

W.M.

Pembridge, Dec. 16.

"Away, let nought to love displeasing".--Is it known who was the author of the song to be found
in Percy's Reliques, and many other collections, beginning--

    "Away, let nought to love displeasing."

The first collection, so far as I know, in which it appears is entitled Miscellaneous Poems
by several Hands, published by D. Lewis, London, 1726; and in this work it is called a translation
from the ancient British. Does this mean a translation of an ancient poem, or a translation
of a poem written in some extant dialect of the language anciently spoken in Britain? Either
would appear to me incredible.

