As it proved a moonlight night, he resolved at once to set about the important business which
had brought him into Yorkshire; and for that purpose set off about eight o'clock on his walk
to Yatton. About ten o'clock he might have been seen gliding noiselessly into the churchyard,
like a dangerous snake. The moon continued to shine--and at intervals with brightness sufficient
for his purpose, which was simply to reconnoitre, as closely as possible, the little sequestered
locality--to ascertain what it might contain, and what were its capabilities. At length he
approached the old yew-tree, against the huge trunk of which he leaned with folded arms, apparently
in a revery. Hearing a noise as of some one opening the gate by which he had entered, he glided
farther into the gloom behind him; and turning his head in the direction whence the sound came,
he beheld some one entering the churchyard. His heart beat quickly; and he suspected that he
had been watched: yet there was surely no harm in being seen, at ten o'clock at night, looking
about him in a country churchyard!--It was a gentleman who entered, dressed in deep mourning;
and Gammon quickly recognized in him Mr. Aubrey--the brother of her whose beautiful image still
shone before his mind's eye. What could he be wanting there?--at that time of night? Gammon
was not kept long in doubt; for the stranger slowly bent his steps towards a large high tomb,
in fact the central object, next to the yew-tree, in the churchyard--and stood gazing at it
in silence for some time.

"That is, no doubt, where Mrs. Aubrey was buried the other day," thought Gammon, watching the
movements of the stranger, who presently raised his handkerchief to his eyes, and for some
moments seemed indulging in great grief. Gammon distinctly heard the sound of deep sighing.
"He must have been very fond of her," thought Gammon. "Well, if we succeed, the excellent old
lady will have escaped a great deal of trouble--that's all! If we succeed," he inwardly repeated
after a long pause! That reminded him of what he had for a few moments lost sight of, namely,
his own object in coming thither; and he felt a sudden chill of remorse, which increased upon
him till he almost trembled, as his eye continued fixed on Mr. Aubrey, and he thought also
of Miss Aubrey--and the misery--the utter ruin into which he was seeking to plunge them both--the
unhallowed means which they--which--if necessary--he--contemplated resorting to for that purpose.

Gammon's condition was becoming every moment more serious; for VIRTUE, in the shape of Miss
Aubrey, began to shine momentarily in more and more radiant loveliness before him--and he almost
felt an inclination to sacrifice every person connected with the enterprise in which he was
engaged, if it would give him a chance of winning the favor of Miss Aubrey. Presently, however,
Mr. Aubrey, evidently heaving a deep sigh, bent his steps slowly back towards the old gate,
and quitted the churchyard. Gammon watched his figure out of sight, and then, for the first
time since Mr. Aubrey's appearance, breathed freely. Relieved from the pressure of his presence,
Gammon began to take calmer and juster views of his position; and he reflected, that if he
pushed on the present affair to a successful issue, he should be much more likely, than by
prematurely ending it, to gain his objects. He therefore resumed his survey of the scene around
him; and which presented appearances highly satisfactory, judging from the expression which
now and then animated his countenance. At length he wandered round to the other end of the
church, where a crumbling wall, half covered with ivy, indicated that there had formerly stood
some building apparently of earlier date than the church. Such was the fact. Gammon soon found
himself standing in a sort of enclosure, which had once been the site of an old chapel. And
here he had not been long making his observations, before he achieved a discovery of so extraordinary
a nature; one so unlikely, under the circumstances, to have happened; one so calculated to
baffle ordinary calculations concerning the course of events, that the reader may well disbelieve
what I am going to tell him, and treat it as absurdly improbable. In short, not to keep him
in suspense, Gammon positively discovered evidence of the death of Harry Dreddlington in his
father's lifetime; by means of just such a looking tombstone as he had long imaged to himself;
and as he had resolved that old Quirk should have got prepared, before the cause came into
court. He almost stumbled over it. 'Twas an old slanting stone, scarcely a foot above the ground,
partly covered with moss, and partly hid by rubbish and long damp grass. The moon shone brightly
enough to enable Gammon, kneeling down, to decipher, beyond all doubt, what was requisite to
establish that part of the case which had been wanting. For a moment or two he was disposed
to imagine that he was dreaming. When, at length, he took out pencil and paper, his hands trembled
so much that he felt some difficulty in making an exact copy of the inestimable inscription.
Having done this, he drew a long breath as he replaced the pencil and paper in his pocket-book,
and almost fancied he heard a whispering sound in the air--"Verdict for the plaintiff." Quitting
the churchyard, he walked back to Grilston at a much quicker rate than that at which he had
come, his discovery having wonderfully elated him, and pushed all other thoughts entirely out
of his mind. But, thought he, doubtless the other side are aware of the existence of this tombstone--they
can hardly be supposed ignorant of it; they must have looked up their evidence as well as we--and
their attention has been challenged to the existence or non-existence of proof of the time
of the death of Harry Dreddlington:--well--if they are aware of it, they know that it cuts
the ground from under them, and turns their conveyance, on which, doubtless, they are relying,
into waste paper; if they are not, and are under the impression that that deed is valid and
effectual, our proof will fall on them like a thunderbolt. "Gad,"--he held his breath, and
stopped in the middle of the road--"how immensely important is this little piece of evidence!
Why, if they knew of it--why in Heaven's name is it there still? What easier than to have got
rid of it?--why, they may still: what can that stupid fellow Parkinson have been about? Yet,
is it because it has become unimportant, on account of their being in possession of other evidence?
What can they have to set against so plain a case as ours is, with this evidence? Gad, I'll
not lose one day's time; but I'll have half a dozen competent witnesses to inspect, and speak
to that same tombstone in court." Such were some of the thoughts which passed through his mind
as he hastened homeward; and on his arrival, late as it was--only the yawning hostler having
sat up to let him in--he wrote off a letter to Mr. Quirk, and made it into a parcel to go by
the mail in the morning, acquainting him with the amazing discovery which he had just made,
and urging Mr. Quirk to set about getting up the briefs, for the trial, without delay; he himself--Gammon--purposing
to stop at Grilston a day or two longer, to complete one or two other arrangements of an important
nature. As soon as Mr. Quirk had read this letter, he devoutly thanked God for his goodness;
and, hurrying to his strong-box, unlocked it, took out a small sealed packet, and committed
it to the flames.

Mr. Aubrey, as soon as he had recovered from the first shock occasioned by Mr. Parkinson's
communication of the proceedings against him, set about acquainting himself, as minutely as
he could, with the true state of the case. He had requested that gentleman to obtain from one
of the counsel in London, Mr. Crystal, a full account of the case for his--Mr. Aubrey's--own
guidance; and on obtaining a remarkably clear and luminous statement, and also consulting the
various authorities cited in it--such at least as could be supplied to him by Mr. Parkinson--the
vigorous practical understanding of Mr. Aubrey, aided by his patient application, soon mastered
the whole case, and enabled him to appreciate his perilous position. Since he could derive
no title through the conveyance of Harry Dreddlington (which had been got in by Geoffrey Dreddlington,)
owing to the death of the former in his father's lifetime,[29] as he (Mr. Aubrey) understood
from his advisers could be easily proved by the present claimant of the property; the right
of accession of Geoffrey Dreddlington's descendants depended entirely upon the fact whether
or not Stephen Dreddlington had really died without issue; and as to that, certain anxious
and extensive inquiries instituted by Messrs. Runnington and Mr. Parkinson, in pursuance of
the suggestions of their able and experienced counsel, had led them to entertain serious doubts
concerning the right of Geoffrey's descendants to have entered into possession. By what means
his opponents had obtained their clew to the state of his title, neither Mr. Aubrey nor any
of his advisers could frame a plausible conjecture. It was certainly possible that Stephen
Dreddlington, who was known to have been a man, like his uncle Harry, of wild and eccentric
habits, and to have been supposed to leave no issue, might have married privately some woman
of inferior station, and left issue by her, who, living in obscurity, and at a distance from
the seat of the family property, could have no opportunity of inquiring into or ascertaining
their position with reference to the estates, till some acute and enterprising attorneys, like
Messrs. Quirk, Gammon, and Snap, happening to get hold of them, and family papers in their
possession, had taken up their case. When, with impressions such as these, Mr. Aubrey perused
and re-perused the opinions of the conveyancer given on the occasion of his (Mr. Aubrey's)
marriage, he was confounded at the supineness and indifference which he had even twice exhibited,
and felt disposed now greatly to overvalue the importance of every adverse circumstance. The
boldness, again, and systematic energy with which the case of the claimant was prosecuted,
and the eminent legal opinions which were alleged, and with every appearance of truth, to concur
in his favor, afforded additional grounds for rational apprehension. He looked the danger,
however, full in the face, and as far as lay in his power, as a conscientious man, prepared
for the evil day which might so soon come upon him. Certain extensive and somewhat costly alterations
which he had been on the point of commencing at Yatton, he abandoned. But for the earnest interference
of friends, he would at once have given up his establishment in Grosvenor Street, and applied
for the Chiltern Hundreds, in order to retire from political life. Considering the possibility
of his soon being declared the wrongful holder of the property, he contracted his expenditure
as far as he could, without challenging unnecessary public attention; and paid into his banker's
hands all his Christmas rents, sacredly resolving to abstain from drawing out one farthing
of what might soon be proved to belong to another. At every point occurred the dreadful question--if
I am declared never to have been the rightful owner of the property, how am I to discharge
my frightful liabilities to him who is? Mr. Aubrey had nothing except the Yatton property.
He had but an insignificant sum in the funds; Mrs.