Up and with Sir J. Minnes to Westminster, and in the Hall there I met with Harris and Rolt,
and carried them to the Rhenish wine-house, where I have not been in a morning--nor any tavern,
I think, these seven years and more.  Here I did get the words of a song of Harris that I wanted.
Here also Mr. Young and Whistler by chance met us, and drank with us.  Thence home, and to
prepare business against the afternoon, and did walk an hour in the garden with Sir W. Warren,
who do tell me of the great difficulty he is under in the business of his accounts with the
Commissioners of Parliament, and I fear some inconveniences and troubles may be occasioned
thereby to me. Mrs. Turner, too, was with us.

2nd.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and there dined
with me, besides my own people, W. Batelier and Mercer, and we very merry.  After dinner, they
gone, only Mercer and I to sing a while, and then parted, and I out and took a coach, and called
Mercer at their back-door, and she brought with her Mrs. Knightly,  a little pretty sober girl,
and I carried them to Old Ford, a town by Bow, where I never was before, and there walked in
the fields very pleasant, and sang: and so back again, and stopped and drank at the Gun, at
Mile End, and so to the Old Exchange door, and did buy them a pound of cherries, cost me 2s.,
and so set them down again; and I to my little mercer's Finch, that lives now in the Minories,
where I have left my cloak, and did here baiser su moher, a belle femme, and there took my
cloak which I had left there, and so by water, it being now about nine o'clock, down to Deptford,
where I have not been many a day, and there it being dark I did by agreement aller a la house
de Bagwell, and there after a little playing and baisando we did go up in the dark a su camera
.  .  . and to my boat again, and against the tide home.  Got there by twelve o'clock, taking
into my boat, for company, a man that desired a passage--a certain western bargeman, with whom
I had good sport, talking of the old woman of Woolwich, and telling him the whole story.

3rd.  Thence with Sir D. Gawden to Westminster, where I did take a turn or two, and met Roger
Pepys, who is mighty earnest for me to stay from going into the country till he goes, and to
bring my people thither for some time: but I cannot, but will find another time this summer
for it.  Thence by coach to Westminster to the Hall, and thence to the Park, where much good
company, and many fine ladies; and in so handsome a hackney I was, that I believe Sir W. Coventry
and others, who looked on me, did take me to be in one of my own, which I was a little troubled
for.  So to the lodge, and drank a cup of new milk, and so home, and there to Mrs. Turner's,
and sat and talked with her, and then home to bed, having laid my business with W. Hewer to
go out of town Friday next, with hopes of a great deal of pleasure.

4th. 6d.; barber, 2s. 6d.; book, Stonage, 4s. 6d. 6d.  And there with great difficulty come
about ten at night to a little inn, where we were fain to go into a room where a pedlar was
in bed, and made him rise; and there wife and I lay, and in a truckle-bed Betty Turner and
Willett.  But good beds, and the master of the house a sober, understanding man, and I had
good discourse with him about this country's matters, as wool, and corne, and other things.
And he also merry, and made us mighty merry at supper, about manning the new ship, at Bristol,
with none but men whose wives do master them; and it seems it is become in reproach to some
men of estate that are such hereabouts, that this is become common talk.

     ["They draw all their heavy goods here on sleds, or sledges, which
     they call 'gee hoes,' without wheels, which kills a multitude of
     horses."  Another writer says, "They suffer no carts to be used in
     the city, lest, as some say, the shake occasioned by them on the
     pavement should affect the Bristol milk (the sherry) in the vaults,
     which is certainly had here in the greatest perfection."  An order
     of Common Council occurs in 1651 to prohibit the use of carts and
     waggons-only suffering drays.  So Byron says in the
     first edition of his "English Bards and Scotch Reviewers"

              "Too much in turtle Bristol's sons delight,
               Too much oer bowls of rack prolong the night."

     These lines will not be found in the modern editions; but the
     following are substituted:

              "Four turtle feeder's verse must needs he flat,
               Though Bristol bloat him with the verdant fat."

     Lord Macaulay says of the collations with which the sugar-refiners
     of   Bristol regaled their visitors: "The repast was dressed in the
     furnace, And was accompanied by a rich brewage made of the best
     Spanish wine, and celebrated over the whole kingdom as Bristol milk"  He shewed us the place where the merchants meet
here, and a fine Cross yet standing, like Cheapside.  He was uncle to the Earl of Sandwich, whose
     mother was Pepys's aunt.  The
sexton of the church is.  So home to dinner, and after dinner comes Mr.
Butts again to see me, and he and I to church, where the same idle fellow
preached; and I slept most of the sermon.  Thence home, and took my wife
out and the girls, and come to this church again, to see it, and look over
the monuments, where, among others, Dr. Venner and Pelting, and a lady of
Sir W. Walter's; he lying with his face broken. But he a Catholick.  So he gone, I
to bed.

15th (Monday).  My wife pleased with all, this evening reading of "Mustapha" to me till supper,
and then to supper, and had musique whose innocence pleased me, and I did give them 3s.  So
on, and passing through a good part of this county of Wiltshire, saw a good house of Alexander
Popham's, and another of my Lord Craven's, I think in Barkeshire.  Come to Newbery, and there
dined, which cost me, and musick, which a song of the old courtier of Queen Elizabeth's, and
how he was changed upon the coming in of the King, did please me mightily, and I did cause
W. Hewer to write it out, 3s. 6d.  W. Hewer troubled with the headake we had none of his company
last night, nor all this day nor night to talk.  Somewhat out of humour all day, reflecting
on my wife's neglect of things, and impertinent humour got by this liberty of being from me,
which she is never to be trusted with; for she is a fool.  Thence pleasant way to London, before
night, and find all very well, to great content; and there to talk with my wife, and saw Sir
W. Pen, who is well again.  I hear of the ill news by the great fire at Barbados.  By and by
home, and there with my people to supper, all in pretty good humour, though I find my wife
hath something in her gizzard, that only waits an opportunity of being provoked to bring up;
but I will not, for my content-sake, give it.  So I to bed, glad to find all so well here,
and slept well.

          [The rough notes end here.]

18th.  Up betimes and to the office, there to set my papers in order and books, my office having
been new whited and windows made clean, and so to sit, where all the morning, and did receive
a hint or two from my Lord Anglesey, as if he thought much of my taking the ayre as I have
done; but I care not a turd; but whatever the matter is, I think he hath some ill-will to me,
or at least an opinion that I am more the servant of the Board than I am.  At noon home to
dinner, where my wife still in a melancholy, fusty humour, and crying, and do not tell me plainly
what it is; but I by little words find that she hath heard of my going to plays, and carrying
people abroad every day, in her absence; and that I cannot help but the storm will break out,
I think, in a little time.  Here met with Povy, who tells me how hard Creed is upon him, though
he did give him, about six months since, I think he said, fifty pieces in gold; and one thing
there is in his accounts that I fear may touch me, but I shall help it, I hope.  So my wife
not speaking a word, going nor coming, nor willing to go to a play, though a new one, I to
the Office, and did much business.  At night home, where supped Mr. Turner and his wife, and
Betty and Mercer and Pelling, as merry as the ill, melancholy humour that my wife was in, would
let us, which vexed me; but I took no notice of it, thinking that will be the best way, and
let it wear away itself.  After supper, parted, and to bed; and my wife troubled all night,
and about one o'clock goes out of the bed to the girl's bed, which did trouble me, she crying
and sobbing, without telling the cause.  By and by she comes back to me, and still crying;
I then rose, and would have sat up all night, but she would have me come to bed again; and
being pretty well pacified, we to sleep.

19th.  When between two and three in the morning we were waked with my maids crying out, "Fire,
fire, in Markelane!"  So homeward, and stopped at Mr. Mills's, where he and she at the door,
and Mrs. Turner, and Betty, and Mrs. Hollworthy, and there I stayed and talked, and up to the
church leads, and saw the fire, which spent itself, till all fear over.  I home, and there
we to bed again, and slept pretty well, and about nine rose, and then my wife fell into her
blubbering again, and at length had a request to make to me, which was, that she might go into
France, and live there, out of trouble; and then all come out, that I loved pleasure and denied
her any, and a deal of do; and I find that there have been great fallings out between my father
and her, whom, for ever hereafter, I must keep asunder, for they cannot possibly agree.  And
I said nothing, but, with very mild words and few, suffered her humour to spend, till we begun
to be very quiet, and I think all will be over, and friends, and so I to the office, where
all the morning doing business.

     ["Such an operation was performed in this year, after a consultation
     of medical men, and chiefly by Locke's advice, and the wound was
     afterwards always kept open, a silver pipe being inserted.  This
     saved Lord Ashley's life, and gave him health"--Christie's Life of
     the first Earl of Shaftesbury, vol. ii., p. 34.  'Tapski' was a name
     given to Shaftesbury in derision, and vile defamers described the
     abscess, which had originated in a carriage accident in Holland, as
     the result of extreme dissipation.  Thence
with W. Pen, who is in great pain of the gowte, by coach round by Holborne
home, he being at every kennel full of pain.  So to supper
and talk, and all in good humour, and then to bed, where I slept not well,
from my apprehensions of some trouble about some business of Mr. Povy's he
told me of the other day.

20th.  Up, and talked with my wife all in good humour, and so to the office, where all the
morning, and then home to dinner, and so she and I alone to the King's house, and there I saw
this new play my wife saw yesterday, and do not like it, it being very smutty, and nothing
so good as "The Maiden Queen," or "The Indian Emperour," of his making, that I was troubled
at it; and my wife tells me wholly (which he confesses a little in the epilogue) taken out
of the "Illustre Bassa."  So she to Unthanke's and I to Mr. Povy, and there settled some business;
and here talked of things, and he thinks there will be great revolutions, and that Creed will
be a great man, though a rogue, he being a man of the old strain, which will now be up again.
So I took coach, and set Povy down at Charing Cross, and took my wife up, and calling at the
New Exchange at Smith's shop, and kissed her pretty hand, and so we home, and there able to
do nothing by candlelight, my eyes being now constantly so bad that I must take present advice
or be blind.  So to supper, grieved for my eyes, and to bed.

21st (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, and home and dined with my wife and Deb. alone, but
merry and in good humour, which is, when all is done, the greatest felicity of all, and after
dinner she to read in the "Illustre Bassa" the plot of yesterday's play, which is most exactly
the same, and so to church I alone, and thence to see Sir W. Pen, who is ill again, and then
home, and there get my wife to read to me till supper, and then to bed.  She gone, Creed and
I to the King's playhouse, and saw an act or two of the new play ["Evening's Love"] again,
but like it not.

     [Daubigny Turberville, of Oriel College; created M.D. at
     Oxford,1660.  He was a physician of some eminence, and, dying at
     Salisbury on the 21st April, 1696, aged eighty-five, he was buried
     in the cathedral, where his monument remains.  Cassan, in his "Lives
     of the Bishops of Sarum," part iii., p. 103, has reprinted an
     interesting account of Turberville, from the "Memoir of Bishop Seth
     Ward," published in 1697, by Dr. Walter Pope.  Turberville was born
     at Wayford, co. Somerset, in 1612, and became an expert oculist; and
     probably Pepys received great benefit from his advice, as his vision
     does not appear to have failed during the many years that he lived
     after discontinuing the Diary.  I did get my store in of Batelier this night.  So home to
supper and to bed.

23rd.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  So I away with my wife and Deb., whom I left
at Unthanke's, and so to Hercules Pillars, and there we three supped on cold powdered beef,
and thence home and in the garden walked a good while with Deane, talking well of the Navy
miscarriages and faults.  So home to bed.

24th.  Up, and Creed and Colonell Atkins come to me about sending coals to Tangier: and upon
that most of the morning.  Thence Creed and I to Alderman Backewell's about Tangier business
of money, and thence I by water (calling and drinking, but not baisado, at Michell's) to Westminster,
but it being holyday did no business, only to Martin's .  .  . and so home again by water,
and busy till dinner, and then with wife, Mercer, Deb., and W. Hewer to the Duke of York's
playhouse, and there saw "The Impertinents," a pretty good play; and so by water to Spring
Garden, and there supped, and so home, not very merry, only when we come home, Mercer and I
sat and sung in the garden a good while, and so to bed.

25th.  Up, and to the office all the morning, and after dinner at home to the office again,
and there all the afternoon very busy till night, and then home to supper and to bed.

26th.  All the morning doing business at the office.  At noon, with my Fellow-Officers, to
the Dolphin, at Sir G. Carteret's charge, to dinner, he having some accounts examined this
morning.  All the afternoon we all at Sir W. Pen's with him about the Victuallers' accounts,
and then in the evening to Charing Cross, and there took up my wife at her tailor's, and so
home and to walk in the garden, and then to sup and to bed.

27th.  At the office all the morning, at noon dined at home, and then my wife, and Deb., and
I to the King's playhouse, and saw "The Indian Queene," but do not doat upon Nan Marshall's
acting therein, as the world talks of her excellence therein.  Thence with my wife to buy some
linnen, L13 worth, for sheets, &c., at the new shop over against the New Exchange; [and the
master, who is] come out of London--[To the Strand.]--since the fire, says his and other tradesmen's
retail trade is so great here, and better than it was in London, that they believe they shall
not return, nor the city be ever so great for retail as heretofore.  So home and to my business,
and to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, and then home to dinner, where Betty Turner, Mercer,
and Captain Deane, and after dinner to sing, Mr. Pelting coming.  Then, they gone, Deane and
I all the afternoon till night to talk of navy matters and ships with great pleasure, and so
at night, he gone, I to supper, Pelling coming again and singing a while, then to bed. Much
talk of the French setting out their fleete afresh; but I hear nothing that our King is alarmed
at it, at all, but rather making his fleete less.

29th.  Called up by my Lady Peterborough's servant about some business of hers, and so to the
office.  This morning Mr. May' shewed me the King's new buildings at White Hall, very fine;
and among other things, his ceilings, and his houses of office.  So home to dinner, and then
with my wife to the King's playhouse--"The Mulberry Garden," which she had not seen.  So by
coach to Islington, and round by Hackney home with much pleasure, and to supper and bed.

30th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning: then home to dinner, where a stinking leg of
mutton, the weather being very wet and hot to keep meat in.  Then to the Office again, all
the afternoon: we met about the Victualler's new contract.  And so up, and to walk all the
evening with my wife and Mrs. Turner in the garden, till supper, about eleven at night; and
so, after supper, parted, and to bed, my eyes bad, but not worse, only weary with working.
But, however, I very melancholy under the fear of my eyes being spoiled, and not to be recovered;
for I am come that I am not able to readout a small letter, and yet my sight good for the little
while I can read, as ever they were, I think.  Up; and all the morning we met at the office
about the Victualler's contract.  At noon home to dinner, my Cozen Roger, come newly to town,
dined with us, and mighty importunate for our coming down to Impington, which I think to do,
this Sturbridge fair.

2nd.  Called up by a letter from W. Coventry telling me that the Commissioners of Accounts
intend to summons me about Sir W. Warren's Hamburg contract, and so I up and to W. Coventry's
(he and G. Carteret being the party concerned in it), and after conference with him about it
to satisfaction I home again to the office.  At noon home to dinner, and then all the afternoon
busy to prepare an answer to this demand of the Commissioners of Accounts, and did discourse
with Sir W. Warren about it, and so in the evening with my wife and Deb. by coach to take ayre
to Mile-end, and so home and I to bed, vexed to be put to this frequent trouble in things we
deserve best in.

3rd.  Betimes to the office, my head full of this business.  Vexed only at their denial of
a copy of what I set my hand to, and swore.  Thence to Unthanke's, to my wife, and carried
her home, and there walked in the garden, and so to supper and to bed.

5th (Lord's day).  About four in the morning took four pills of Dr. Turberville's prescribing,
for my eyes, and they wrought pretty well most of the morning, and I did get my wife to spend
the morning reading of Wilkins's Reall Character.  At noon comes W. Hewer and Pelling, and
young Michell and his wife, and dined with us, and most of the afternoon talking; and then
at night my wife to read again, and to supper and to bed.

6th.  Up, and to St. James's, and there attended the Duke of York, and was
there by himself told how angry he was, and did declare to my Lord
Anglesey, about his late complaining of things of the Navy to the King in
Council, and not to him; and I perceive he is mightily concerned at it,
and resolved to reform things therein.  Cardinal Jean Balue was the minister of Louis XI. of
     France.  The reader will remember him in Sir W. Scott's "Quentin
     Durward."  He was confined for eleven years in an iron cage invented
     by himself in the Chateau de Loches, and died soon after he regained
     his liberty.--B.]

by Lord Cottington, in his 'Dolor de las Tyipas';

     [Gripes.  Thence I to the playhouse, and saw a piece of
the play, and glad to see Betterton; and so with wife and Deb. to
Spring-garden, and eat a lobster, and so home in the evening and to bed.

7th.  Up, and to the office, where Kate Joyce come to me about some tickets of hers, but took
no notice to me of her being married, but seemed mighty pale, and doubtful what to say or do,
expecting, I believe, that I should begin; and not finding me beginning, said nothing, but,
with trouble in her face, went away.  At the office all the morning, and after dinner also
all the afternoon, and in the evening with my wife and Deb. and Betty Turner to Unthanke's,
where we are fain to go round by Newgate, because of Fleet Bridge being under rebuilding. 
They stayed there, and I about some business, and then presently back and brought them home
and supped and Mrs. Turner, the mother, comes to us, and there late, and so to bed.

8th.  Thence I to Unthanke's, and took my wife and Deb. home, and to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up, and to the office, where sat all the morning, and after noon to the office again
till night, mighty busy getting Mr. Fist to come and help me, my own clerks all busy, and so
in the evening to ease my eyes, and with my wife and Deb. and Betty Turner, by coach to Unthanke's
and back again, and then to supper and to bed.

10th.  Up, and to attend the Council, but all in vain, the Council spending all the morning
upon a business about the printing of the Critickes, a dispute between the first Printer, one
Bee that is dead, and the Abstractor, who would now print his Abstract, one Poole.  So home
to dinner, and thence to Haward's to look upon an Espinette, and I did come near the buying
one, but broke off.  I have a mind to have one.  Thence, in the evening, with my people in
a glass hackney-coach to the park, but was ashamed to be seen. So to the lodge, and drank milk,
and so home to supper and to bed.

11th.  At the office all the morning. Thence home and to my office, and then to supper and
to bed, and overnight took some pills,

12th.  Which work with me pretty betimes, being Lord's day, and so I within all day.  Busy
all the morning upon some accounts with W. Hewer, and at noon, an excellent dinner, comes Pelling
and W. Howe, and the latter staid and talked with me all the afternoon, and in the evening
comes Mr. Mills and his wife and supped and talked with me, and so to bed. This last night
Betty Michell about midnight cries out, and my wife goes to her, and she brings forth a girl,
and this afternoon the child is christened, and my wife godmother again to a Betty.

13th.  Up, and to my office, and thence by water to White Hall to attend the Council, but did
not, and so home to dinner, and so out with my wife, and Deb., and W. Hewer towards Cooper's,
but I 'light and walked to Ducke Lane, and there to the bookseller's; at the Bible, whose moher
je have a mind to, but elle no erat dentro, but I did there look upon and buy some books, and
made way for coming again to the man, which pleases me. Thence to Reeves's, and there saw some,
and bespoke a little perspective, and was mightily pleased with seeing objects in a dark room.
And so to Cooper's, and spent the afternoon with them; and it will be an excellent picture.
Thence my people all by water to Deptford, to see Balty, while I to buy my espinette,

     [Espinette is the French term for a small harpsichord, at that time
     called in England a spinet.  It was named from a fancied resemblance
     of its quill plectra to spines or thorns.]

which I did now agree for, and did at Haward's meet with Mr. Thacker, and heard him play on
the harpsicon, so as I never heard man before, I think. So home, it being almost night, and
there find in the garden Pelling, who hath brought Tempest, Wallington, and Pelham, to sings
and there had most excellent musick late, in the dark, with great pleasure.  Made them drink
and eat; and so with much pleasure to bed, but above all with little Wallington.  Up, and to
my office, where sat all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, and thence all the afternoon
hard at the office, we meeting about the Victualler's new contract; and so into the garden,
my Lady Pen, Mrs. Turner and her daughter, my wife and I, and there supped in the dark and
were merry, and so to bed.  This afternoon my Lady Pickering come to see us: I busy, saw her
not.  But how natural it is for us to slight people out of power, and for people out of power
to stoop to see those that while in power they contemned!

15th.  Up, and all the morning busy at the office to my great content, attending to the settling
of papers there that I may have the more rest in winter for my eyes by how much I do the more
in the settling of all things in the summer by daylight.  At noon home to dinner, where is
brought home the espinette I bought the other day of Haward; costs me L5. So to St. James's,
where did our ordinary business with the Duke of York. So to Unthanke's to my wife, and with
her and Deb. to visit Mrs. Pierce, whom I do not now so much affect, since she paints.  So
home, and there Captain Deane come and spent the evening with me, to draw some finishing lines
on his fine draught of "The Resolution," the best ship, by all report, in the world, and so
to bed.  Wonderful hot all day and night, and this the first night that I remember in my life
that ever I could lie with only a sheet and one rug.  So much I am now stronger than ever I
remember myself, at least since before I had the stone.

16th.  Up, and to the office, where Yeabsly and Lanyon come to town and to speak with me about
a matter wherein they are accused of cheating the King before the Lords' Commissioners of Tangier,
and I doubt it true, but I have no hand in it, but will serve them what I can.  All the morning
at the office, and at noon dined at home, and then to the office again, where we met to finish
the draft of the Victualler's contract, and so I by water with my Lord Brouncker to Arundell
House, to the Royall Society, and there saw an experiment of a dog's being tied through the
back, about the spinal artery, and thereby made void of all motion; and the artery being loosened
again, the dog recovers.  Thence to Cooper's, and saw his advance on my wife's picture, which
will be indeed very fine.  So with her to the 'Change, to buy some things, and here I first
bought of the sempstress next my bookseller's, where the pretty young girl is, that will be
a great beauty.  So home, and to supper with my wife in the garden, it being these two days
excessively hot, and so to bed.

17th.  Up, and fitted myself to discourse before the Council about business of tickets.  Thence
home, and with my wife and Deb. to the King's House to see a play revived called The------,
a sorry mean play, that vexed us to sit in so much heat of the weather to hear it. Thence to
see Betty Michell newly lain in, and after a little stay we took water and to Spring Garden,
and there walked, and supped, and staid late, and with much pleasure, and to bed.  The weather
excessive hot, so as we were forced to lie in two beds, and I only with a sheet and rug, which
is colder than ever I remember I could bear.

18th.  At the office all the morning.  At noon dined at home and Creed with me, who I do really
begin to hate, and do use him with some reservedness.  Here was also my old acquaintance, Will
Swan, to see me, who continues a factious fanatick still, and I do use him civilly, in expectation
that those fellows may grow great again.  Thence to the office, and then with my wife to the
'Change and Unthanke's, after having been at Cooper's and sat there for her picture, which
will be a noble picture, but yet I think not so like as Hales's is.  So home and to my office,
and then to walk in the garden, and home to supper and to bed.  Creed told me this day how
when the King was at my Lord Cornwallis's when he went last to Newmarket, that being there
on a Sunday, the Duke of Buckingham did in the afternoon to please the King make a bawdy sermon
to him out of Canticles, and that my Lord Cornwallis did endeavour to get the King a whore,
and that must be a pretty girl the daughter of the parson of the place, but that she did get
away, and leaped off of some place and killed herself, which if true is very sad.

19th (Lord's day).

20th.  Up, and to the office, where Mrs. Daniel comes.  .  .  .  All the morning at the office.
Dined at home, then with Mr. Colvill to the new Excise Office in Aldersgate Street, and thence
back to the Old Exchange, to see a very noble fine lady I spied as I went through, in coming;
and there took occasion to buy some gloves, and admire her, and a mighty fine fair lady indeed
she was.  Thence idling all the afternoon to Duck Lane, and there saw my bookseller's moher,
but get no ground there yet; and here saw Mrs. Michell's daughter married newly to a bookseller,
and she proves a comely little grave woman.  So to visit my Lord Crew, who is very sick, to
great danger, by an irisipulus;--[Erysipelas.]--the first day I heard of it, and so home, and
took occasion to buy a rest for my espinette at the ironmonger's by Holborn Conduit, where
the fair pretty woman is that I have lately observed there, and she is pretty, and je credo
vain enough. Thence home and busy till night, and so to bed.

21st.  Up, and to St. James's, but lost labour, the Duke abroad.  So home to the office, where
all the morning, and so to dinner, and then all the afternoon at the office, only went to my
plate-maker's, and there spent an hour about contriving my little plates,

     [This passage has been frequently quoted as referring to Pepys's.
     small bookplate, with his initials S. P. and two anchors and ropes
     entwined; but if looked at carefully with the further reference on
     the 27th, it will be seen that it merely describes the preparation
     of engravings of the four dockyards.]

for my books of the King's four Yards.  At night walked in the garden, and supped and to bed,
my eyes bad.

22nd.  All the morning at the office. So to shew Symson the King's new lodgings for his chimnies,
which I desire to have one built in that mode, and so I home, and with little supper, to bed.
This day a falling out between my wife and Deb., about a hood lost, which vexed me.

23rd.  Up, and all day long, but at dinner, at the Office, at work, till I was almost blind,
which makes my heart sad.

24th. Thence to White Hall, and there waited to attend the Council, but was not called in,
and so home, and after dinner back with Sir J. Minnes by coach, and there attended, all of
us, the Duke of York, and had the hearing of Mr. Pett's business, the Master-Shipwright at
Chatham, and I believe he will be put out.  But here Commissioner. Middleton did, among others,
shew his good-nature and easiness to the Masters-Attendants, by mitigating their faults, so
as, I believe, they will come in again.  So home, and to supper and to bed, the Duke of York
staying with us till almost night.

25th.  Up, and at the Office all the morning; and at noon, after dinner, to Cooper's, it being
a very rainy day, and there saw my wife's picture go on, which will be very fine indeed.  And
so home again to my letters, and then to supper and to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  Up, and all the morning and after dinner, the afternoon also, with W. Hewer
in my closet, setting right my Tangier Accounts, which I have let alone these six months and
more, but find them very right, and is my great comfort.  So in the evening to walk with my
wife, and to supper and to bed.

27th.  Busy all the morning at my office.  At noon dined, and then I out of doors to my bookseller
in Duck Lane, but su moher not at home, and it was pretty here to see a pretty woman pass by
with a little wanton look, and je did sequi her round about the street from Duck Lane to Newgate
Market, and then elle did turn back, and je did lose her.  This day my plate-maker comes with
my four little plates of the four Yards, cost me L5, which troubles me, but yet do please me also.

28th.  All the morning at the office, and after dinner with my wife and Deb.  to the Duke of
York's playhouse, and there saw "The Slighted Maid," but a mean play; and thence home, there
being little pleasure now in a play, the company being but little.  Here we saw Gosnell, who
is become very homely, and sings meanly, I think, to what I thought she did.

29th.  Busy all the morning at the office.  So home to dinner, where Mercer, and there comes
Mr. Swan, my old acquaintance, and dines with me, and tells me, for a certainty, that Creed
is to marry Betty Pickering, and that the thing is concluded, which I wonder at, and am vexed
for. So he gone I with my wife and two girls to the King's house, and saw "The Mad Couple,"
a mean play altogether, and thence to Hyde Parke, where but few coaches, and so to the New
Exchange, and thence by water home, with much pleasure, and then to sing in the garden, and
so home to bed, my eyes for these four days being my trouble, and my heart thereby mighty sad.

30th.  So close at my office all the afternoon till evening, and then out with my wife to the
New Exchange, and so back again.

31st.  Up, and at my office all the morning.  Thence Sir J. Minnes giving us, like a gentleman,
his coach, hearing we had some business, we to the Park, and so home.  Little pleasure there,
there being little company, but mightily taken with a little chariot that we saw in the street,
and which we are resolved to have ours like it. So home to walk in the garden a little, and
then to bed.

     [An account of these tubulous spectacles ("An easy help for decayed
     sight") is given in "The Philosophical Transactions," No. 37, pp.
     727,731 (Hutton's Abridgment, vol. i., p. 266).  See Diary, August
     12th and 23rd, post.]

