Another striking incongruity is the fact that the best student is generally a pale, slender
girl, or one on which the ravages of disease have set their mark. To this delicate creature
is given a prize of books which will still further tax her powers. Now, would it not be wiser
to minister to the body diseased and award a prize of this nature. Will Miss Hilda Busick step
this way? Permit me to ask you one question. Be you sick? That is all I wish to know. Be you
sick? If that be so, dear friend, take this in time. It is warranted to cure every ill under
the sun, and taken internally or externally makes no difference. Take it, and bless your fortunate
star which brought this to your lot rather than a pile of dusty volumes.

For you, dear Miss Clancy, I was at a loss, but knowing that your future career will be a busy
one, I thought this little engagement slate might be handy. You see you can hang it up in your
office when you are called away to take down a sermon of Phillips Brooks, or to report the
World's Fair of '92, and the horde of stenographer-hunters may subscribe their names here and
their humble supplication that you will attend to them on their return. The other side of the
slate may be used in casting up bills.

I quite agree with Miss Sharp that patriotic sentiments ought to be inculcated, and for this
reason I have chosen this little flag of our country which I beg she will accept; accompanying
it is a little bundle of fire-crackers dear to every patriotic heart. The best way to appreciate
them is to tie them together with their fuming little projecting frizzles, set fire to the
last one and throw them on the street; the result will astonish you, I am sure.

And now, my dear friends, you have seen the merits of my system, but it is with pain that I
point out its only defect. I give prizes to the worst ones at school, the only trouble is there
are so few "worst" that the list of prize-winners is naturally small. But I hope you will acknowledge
that its defect is amply compensated for by its other excellencies.

A Tale of Woe

BY MISS CARRIE R. PURCELL.

(Read on Class Night, Tuesday, June 2, 1891.)

       Listen my friends, and you shall hear
     A dreadful poem which I have here.
     'Tis about the class of '91,
       And a harrowing tale when once begun.
     A tale that will make you all shiver and shake;
     The thought of it now is making me quake.

     'Tis a tale of struggle and grief and woe,
     Of the girls who wrote fast, and the girls who wrote slow,
       Of girls who came early, of girls who came late,
       Of those who had plenty, others, none to dictate.
     Of the girls who held pencils as if they were pills,
     Of others, who held them as if they had chills.
       Of the dear darling girls who did everything (write) right,
       Of other unfortunates weeping all night,
       Oh! indeed, my dear friends, 'twas a terrible sight.

     Of a dear kindly teacher who came every night,
     And who stayed long after the electric light,
       Of the class in a circle the teacher around,
       While he watched every outline, and heard every sound.
     And the five minutes recess to catch the fresh air.
     Of return to the circle and "catching" it there;
       Of the girls who can stand up and read as they'd write.
       Of others who couldn't if they stood up all night;
       Ah! yes indeed, 'twas a pitiful plight.

     Of Complaints and of Answers, of Leases and Deeds;
     Of all kinds of letters for business men's needs;
       Of good sound advice as we all neared the end,
       From our dear kind Instructor, who is "also our friend."
     Of that dread Monday eve which had long been expected;
     Of the papers accepted, and the papers rejected.
       Of this beautiful calm which has followed that night;
       And I'm sure that my teachers and classmates unite
       In thanking Class '90 for this pleasant sight.

Verses Read on Class Night

BY MISS NELLIE J. BELL.

June 2, 1891.

     Hail! To our friends, both one and all,
     Hail! To our neighbors, great and small,
     Hail! To the sweet June air and sun,
     Hail! To the Class of '91.

     For the past eight months we've been working,
       Working with might and main,
     To get Phonographic outlines
       Fixed firmly in our brains.

     But now our work is ended,
       Our Winter's work is done;
     Then hip hurrah, hurrah, hurrah,
       For the Class of '91!

     And we smile as we think of the hours
       That we thought so fraught with pain;
     They have gone like the fleeting shadows,
       N'er to return again.

     And now we can sit in our cosy homes,
       And watch the drizzling rain;
     It used to be, "Put up your umbrella
       And don't you miss the train."

     I was seated one night, with book and pen,
       The midnight oil burned low;
     While on the table spread before me lay,
       A legal doc. with verbiage slow.

     When all at once on the still night air,
       Rang a terrible shriek, so wild and shrill,
     It curdled the warm blood in my veins,
       And made my very heart stand still.

     I rushed to the casement, and open it flew
       The pale moon shone in the azure sky,
     And like costly gems, 'neath a cloud of lace,
       Gleamed the stars in the Milky Way.

     And I looked and shuddered,
       For what did I see,
     But Thomas and Maria a lookin' at me,
       Their voices were pitched in the high key of C.

     Classmates, now step to the front,
       And make your bow to the business world,
     We are ready to work for honest hire,
       With our banners all unfurled.

     And now in conclusion we bid you adieu
     And make room for the Class of '92.

     Now give three cheers, and three times three
     For this glorious G. S. M. & T.
     God's blessing be on it forever, we say,
     May it know naught but prosperous days.

Address to the Graduating Class

On Examination Night.

BY W. L. MASON, INSTRUCTOR.

MY DEAR PUPILS:

This is the last night of our course, and since we have studied our final lesson together,
it has occurred to me that this would be a good opportunity for a little talk with you, as
you are about to leave this school and go out into the world. First of all, I want to tell
you, as I have many times told you before, how very much I have enjoyed my work in connection
with this class during the past Winter. There is a certain satisfaction in feeling that I have
been able to help you to learn something, and this feeling is increased by remembering that
I, too, have been learning, and that my knowledge of the art of shorthand has been enlarged
by teaching it to you. You, on the other hand, must keep in mind the fact that you have not
learned all there is to be learned about Phonography. Though you may live many years, and practice
Phonography all your life, you probably never will feel that you have a perfect knowledge of
all the details of the art. This, however, need not discourage you, but, on the contrary, should
fill you with pleasure to think there is something yet to be learned, and thus the fascination
which the study of Phonography has had for you during the past few months, can never diminish
so long as you have a desire to advance more and more towards perfection. It is not to be expected
that you will for any length of time remember everything that I have ever said to you with
regard to the advantages of shorthand or its practical use; but of one thing I feel very sure,
and that is that whatever I have said that is worth anything will at some future time recur
to you when you need it most, and when it will probably be better understood than it is now.

There is one fact that I wish very strongly to impress upon you, namely, that you have, by
your diligent study of the past Winter, gained something which is of priceless value to you,
and, if used aright, something which must some day, sooner or later, prove of particular advantage.
This practical knowledge of shorthand which you now possess is something which cannot be bought
or sold; it is something which you can never wholly forget; it is something which many persons
would give a great deal to obtain; and I therefore charge you to guard it with care, and treasure
it as a talent for the right use of which you will some day be held accountable. Do not by
any means give up your practice. Even if you cannot continue it regularly, do not abandon it
altogether, but look upon your shorthand as a mine of intellectual wealth which, if rightly
worked, will yield rich results.

With hearty congratulations upon your success, and with the most cordial wishes for your future
prosperity, I bid you God-speed.  "[=a]" indicates an a-macron.