On the evening of the election, there was a general gathering of people at the Adobe house,
the principal building of the place, to hear the official announcement of the result of the
election. When this was made, some one proposed that a name should be adopted for the new town.
One man suggested "Yubafield," because of its situation on the Yuba River; and another, "Yubaville,"
for the same reason. A third, urged the name "Circumdoro," (surrounded with gold, as he translated
the word,) because there were mines in every direction round about. But there was a fourth,
a solid and substantial old man, evidently of kindly domestic affections, who had come out
to California to better his fortunes. He now rose and remarked that there was an American lady
in the place, the wife of one of the proprietors; that her name was Mary; and that, in his
opinion, her name ought to be given to the town, and it should be called, in her honor, "Marysville."
No sooner had he made the suggestion, than the meeting broke out into loud hurrahs; every hat
made a circle around its owner's head, and we christened the new town "Marysville," without
a dissenting voice. For a few days afterwards, the town was called both Yubaville and Marysville,
but the latter name was soon generally adopted, and the place is so called to this day. The
lady, in whose honor it was named was Mrs. Covillaud. She was one of the survivors of the Donner
party, which suffered so frightfully while crossing the Sierra Nevadas in the winter of 1846-7,
and had been living in the country ever since that terrible time.

With my notions of law, I did not attach much importance to the election, but I had a certificate
of election made out and signed by the Inspectors, stating that at a meeting of the residents
of the District of Yubaville, on the day named, an election for officers had been held, and
designating the Inspectors who were appointed, the number of votes that had been cast for the
office of Alcalde, and the number received by myself, and the number received by my opponent,
and that as I had received a majority of all the votes cast, I was elected to that office.
It was made out with all possible formality, and when completed, was sent to the Prefect of
the District. This officer, a Mr. E.O. Crosby, afterwards Minister to one of the South American
Republics, wrote back approving my election, and advising me to act. His advice, under the
circumstances, was a matter of some moment. The new Constitution of the State had gone into
effect, though it was still uncertain whether it would be recognized by Congress. Mr. Crosby,
therefore, thought it best for me to procure, in addition to my commission as Alcalde, an appointment
as Justice of the Peace; and through his kind offices, I obtained from Governor Burnett the
proper document bearing his official seal. After my election, I went to Sacramento, and on
the 22d of January, 1850, was sworn into office as first Alcalde of Yubaville, by the Judge
of the Court of First Instance, as that was the name of the district in the certificate of
election; but I was always designated, after the name of the town had been adopted, as First
Alcalde of Marysville.[4]

Captain Sutter, whose deed I had drawn, was a remarkable character. He was about five feet
nine inches in height, and was thick-set. He had a large head and an open, manly face, somewhat
hardened and bronzed by his life in the open air. His hair was thin and light, and he wore
a mustache. He had the appearance of an old officer of the French army, with a dignified and
military bearing. I subsequently became well acquainted with him, and learned both to respect
and to pity him. I respected him for his intrepid courage, his gentle manners, his large heart,
and his unbounded benevolence. I pitied him for his simplicity, which, while suspecting nothing
wrong in others, led him to trust all who had a kind word on their lips, and made him the victim
of every sharper in the country. He was a native of Switzerland and was an officer in the Swiss
Guards, in the service of the King of France, in 1823, and for some years afterwards. In 1834,
he emigrated to America, and had varied and strange adventures among the Indians at the West;
in the Sandwich Islands, at Fort Vancouver, in Alaska, and along the Pacific Coast. In July,
1839, the vessel which he was aboard of, was stranded in the harbor of San Francisco. He then
penetrated into the interior of California and founded the first white settlement in the valley
of the Sacramento, on the river of that name, at the mouth of the American River, which settlement
he named Helvetia. He built a fort there and gathered around it a large number of native Indians
and some white settlers. In 1841, the Mexican government granted to him a tract of land eleven
square leagues in extent; and, subsequently, a still larger concession was made to him by the
Governor of the Department. But the Governor being afterwards expelled from the country, the
concession was held to be invalid. The emigrants arriving in the country after the discovery
of gold proved the ruin of his fortunes. They squatted upon his land, denied the validity of
his title, cut down his timber, and drove away his cattle. Sharpers robbed him of what the
squatters did not take, until at last he was stripped of everything; and, finally, he left
the State, and for some years has been living with relatives in Pennsylvania. Even the stipend
of $2,500, which the State of California for some years allowed him, has been withdrawn, and
now in his advanced years, he is almost destitute. Yet, in his days of prosperity, he was always
ready to assist others. His fort was always open to the stranger, and food, to the value of
many thousand dollars, was, every year, so long as he had the means, sent out by him for the
relief of emigrants crossing the plains. It is a reproach to California that she leaves the
pioneer and hero destitute in his old age.

[1] Col. Stevenson was born at the commencement of the century,
    and is therefore now, 1893, in his ninety-fourth year.

[2] See Exhibit A, in Appendix.

[3] See Exhibit B, in Appendix.

[4] See Exhibit C, in Appendix.

EXPERIENCES AS ALCALDE.

Under the Mexican law, Alcaldes had, as already stated, a very limited jurisdiction. But in
the anomalous condition of affairs under the American occupation, they exercised almost unlimited
powers. They were, in fact, regarded as magistrates elected by the people for the sake of preserving
public order and settling disputes of all kinds. In my own case, and with the approval of the
community, I took jurisdiction of every case brought before me. I knew nothing of Mexican laws;
did not pretend to know anything of them; but I knew that the people had elected me to act
as a magistrate and looked to me for the preservation of order and the settlement of disputes;
and I did my best that they should not be disappointed. I let it be known that my election
had been approved by the highest authority.

The first case I tried was in the street. Two men came up to me, one of them leading a horse.
He said, "Mr. Alcalde, we both claim this horse, and we want you to decide which of us is entitled
to it." I turned to the man who had the horse, administered an oath to him, and then examined
him as to where he got the horse, of whom and when, whether he had a bill of sale, whether
there was any mark or brand on the animal, and, in short, put all those questions which would
naturally be asked in such a case to elicit the truth. I then administered an oath to the other
man and put him through a similar examination, paying careful attention to what each said.
When the examination was completed I at once decided the case. "It is very plain, gentlemen,"
I said, "that the horse belongs to this man (pointing to one of them) and the other must give
him up." "But," said the man who had lost and who held the horse, "the bridle certainly belongs
to me, he does not take the bridle, does he?" I said, "Oh no, the bridle is another matter."
As soon as I said this the owner of the bridle turned to his adversary and said, "What will
you take for the horse?" "Two hundred and fifty dollars," was the instant reply. "Agreed,"
retorted the first, and then turning to me, he continued: "And now, Mr. Alcalde, I want you
to draw me up a bill of sale for this horse which will stick." I, of course, did as he desired.
I charged an ounce for trying the case and an ounce for the bill of sale; charges which were
promptly paid. Both parties went off perfectly satisfied. I was also well pleased with my first
judicial experience.

Soon after my election I went to San Francisco to get my effects; and while there I purchased,
on credit, a frame house and several zinc houses, which were at once shipped to Marysville.
As soon as the frame house was put up I opened my office in it, and exercised not only the
functions of a magistrate and justice, but also of a supervisor of the town. I opened books
for the record of deeds and kept a registry of conveyances in the district. I had the banks
of the river graded so as to facilitate the landing from vessels. The marshal of my court,
elected at the same time with myself, having refused to act, I appointed an active and courageous
person in his place, R.B. Buchanan by name, and directed him to see that peace was preserved,
and for that purpose to appoint as many deputies as might be necessary. He did so, and order
and peace were preserved throughout the district, not only in Marysville, but for miles around.

As a judicial officer, I tried many cases, both civil and criminal, and I dictated the form
of process suited to the exigency. Thus, when a complaint was made to me by the owner of a
river boat, that the steamer, which plied between Marysville and Sacramento, had run down his
boat, by which a part of its cargo was lost, I at once dictated process to the marshal, in
which the alleged injury was recited, and he was directed to seize the steamer, and hold it
until further orders, unless the captain or owner gave security to appear in the action commenced
by the owner of the boat, and pay any judgment that might be recovered therein. Upon service
of the process the captain appeared, gave the required security, and the case was immediately
tried. Judgment was rendered and paid within five hours after the commission of the injury.

In civil cases, I always called a jury, if the parties desired one; and in criminal cases,
when the offence was of a high grade, I went through the form of calling a grand jury, and
having an indictment found; and in all cases I appointed an attorney to represent the people,
and also the accused, when necessary. The Americans in the country had a general notion of
what was required for the preservation of order and the due administration of justice; and
as I endeavored to administer justice promptly, but upon a due consideration of the rights
of every one, and not rashly, I was sustained with great unanimity by the community.

I have reported a civil case tried before me as Alcalde. I will now give a few criminal prosecutions
and their circumstances. One morning, about five o'clock, a man tapped at my window, and cried,
"Alcalde, Alcalde, there has been a robbery, and you are wanted." I got up at once, and while
I was dressing he told his story. Nearly every one in those days lived in a tent and had his
gold dust with him. The man, who proved to be Gildersleeve, the famous runner, upon going to
bed the previous evening had placed several pounds of gold dust in his trunk, which was not
locked. In the night some one had cut through his tent and taken the gold dust. I asked him
if he suspected anybody; and he named two men, and gave such reasons for his suspicion that
I immediately dictated a warrant for their arrest; and in a short time the two men were arrested
and brought before me. The gold dust was found on one of them. I immediately called a grand
jury, by whom he was indicted. I then called a petit jury, and assigned counsel for the prisoner.
He was immediately placed upon his trial, and was convicted. The whole proceeding occupied
only a part of the day. There was a great crowd and much excitement, and some talk of lynching.
Curiously enough, my real trouble did not commence until after the conviction. What was to
be done with the prisoner? How was he to be punished? Imposing a fine would not answer; and,
if he had been discharged, the crowd would have immediately hung him. When at San Francisco,
Mayor Geary, of that place, told me if I would send my convicts to him, with money enough to
pay for a ball and chain for each one, he would put them in the chain-gang. But at that time
the price of passage by steamer from Marysville to San Francisco was fifty dollars, which,
with the expense of an officer to accompany the prisoner, and the price of a ball and chain,
would have amounted to a much larger sum than the prosecution could afford; so it was clearly
impracticable to think of sending him to San Francisco. Nor is it at all likely that the people
would have consented to his removal. Under these circumstances there was but one course to
pursue, and, however repugnant it was to my feelings to adopt it, I believe it was the only
thing that saved the man's life. I ordered him to be publicly whipped with fifty lashes, and
added that if he were found, within the next two years, in the vicinity of Marysville, he should
be again whipped. I, however, privately ordered a physician to be present so as to see that
no unnecessary severity was practiced. In accordance with this sentence, the fellow was immediately
taken out and flogged; and that was the last seen of him in that region. He went off and never
came back. The latter part of the sentence, however, was supererogatory; for there was something
so degrading in a public whipping, that I have never known a man thus whipped who would stay
longer than he could help, or ever desire to return. However this may have been, the sense
of justice of the community was satisfied. No blood had been shed; there had been no hanging;
yet a severe public example had been given.

On another occasion a complaint was made that a man had stolen fifteen hundred dollars from
a woman. He was arrested, brought before me, indicted, tried, and convicted. I had the same
compunctions about punishment as before, but, as there was no other course, I ordered him to
receive fifty lashes on his back on two successive days, unless he gave up the money, in which
case he was to receive only fifty lashes. As soon as the sentence was written down the marshal
marched the prisoner out to a tree, made him hug the tree, and in the presence of the crowd
that followed, began inflicting the lashes. The man stood it for awhile without flinching,
but when he had received the twenty-second lash he cried out, "Stop, for God's sake, and I
will tell you where the money is." The marshal stopped and, accompanied by the crowd, took
the man to the place indicated, where the money was recovered; and the thief was then made
to carry it back to the woman and apologize for stealing it. The marshal then consulted the
sentence, and, finding that it prescribed fifty lashes at any rate, he marched the wretch back
to the tree and gave him the balance, which was his due.

But the case which made the greatest impression upon the people, and did more to confirm my
authority than anything else, was the following: There was a military encampment of United
States soldiers on Bear River, about fifteen miles from Marysville, known as "Camp Far West."
One day an application was made to me to issue a warrant for the arrest of one of the soldiers
for a larceny he had committed. It was stated that a complaint had been laid before the local
Alcalde near the camp; but that the officer in charge had refused to give up the soldier unless
a warrant for that purpose were issued by me, it being the general impression that I was the
only duly commissioned Alcalde in the district above Sacramento. On this showing I issued my
warrant, and a lieutenant of the army brought the soldier over. The soldier was indicted, tried,
convicted, and sentenced to be publicly whipped with the usual number of lashes, and the officer
stood by and saw the punishment inflicted. He then took the soldier back to camp, where it
was afterwards reported that he received an additional punishment. But before the lieutenant
left me that day, and while we were dining together, he took occasion to say that, if at any
time I had any trouble in enforcing the law, I had but to send him word and he would order
out a company of troops to support me. This offer I permitted to become known through the town;
and people said--and with what effect may be imagined--"Why here is an Alcalde that has the
troops of the United States at his back."

I have already stated that I had the banks of the Yuba River graded so as to facilitate the
landing from vessels. I will now mention another instance of my administration as general supervisor
of the town. There were several squatters on the landing at the river, which, according to
the plan of the town, was several hundred feet wide. The lots fronting on this landing being
the best for business, commanded the highest prices. But on account of the squatters the owners
were deprived of the benefit of the open ground of the landing in front of their property,
and they complained to me. I called upon the squatters and told them that they must leave,
and that if they were not gone by a certain time, I should be compelled to remove them by force,
and, if necessary, to call to my aid the troops of the United States. This was enough; the
squatters left, the landing was cleared, and business went on smoothly.

In addition to my ordinary duties as a judicial officer and as general supervisor of the town,
I acted as arbitrator in a great number of controversies which arose between the citizens.
In such cases the parties generally came to my office together and stated that they had agreed
to leave the matter in dispute between them to my decision. I immediately heard their respective
statements--sometimes under oath, and sometimes without oath--and decided the matter at once.
The whole matter was disposed of without any written proceedings, except in some instances
I gave to parties a memorandum of my decision. Thus on one occasion a dispute arose as to the
rate of wages, between several workmen and their employer; the workmen insisting upon twelve
dollars a day and the employer refusing to give more than ten. To settle the dispute they agreed
to leave the matter to me. I heard their respective statements, and after stating that both
of them ought to suffer a little for not having made a specific contract at the outset, decided
that the workingmen should receive eleven dollars a day, with which both appeared to be well
satisfied. On another occasion parties disputed as to whether freight on a box of crockery
should be charged by measurement or by weight, a specific contract having been made that all
articles shipped by the owner should be carried at a fixed price per hundred pounds. They agreed
to leave the matter to my determination, and I settled it in five minutes. Again, on one occasion
a woman, apparently about fifty-six, rushed into my office under great excitement, exclaiming
that she wanted a divorce from her husband, who had treated her shamefully. A few moments afterwards
the husband followed, and he also wanted relief from the bonds of matrimony. I heard their
respective complaints, and finding that they had children, I persuaded them to make peace,
kiss, and forgive; and so they left my office arm-in-arm, each having promised the other never
to do so again, amid the applause of the spectators. In this way I carried out my conception
of the good Cadi of the village, from which term (Al Cadi) my own official designation, Alcalde,
was derived.

To make a long story short, until I was superseded by officers under the State government,
I superintended municipal affairs and administered justice in Marysville with success. Whilst
there was a large number of residents there of high character and culture, who would have done
honor to any city, there were also unfortunately many desperate persons, gamblers, black-legs,
thieves, and cut-throats; yet the place was as orderly as a New England village. There were
no disturbances at night, no riots, and no lynching. It was the model town of the whole country
for peacefulness and respect for law.

And now a word about my speculations. In a short time after going to Marysville and writing
my name down for sixty-five town lots, property increased ten-fold in value. Within ninety
days I sold over $25,000 worth, and still had most of my lots left. My frame and zinc houses
brought me a rental of over $1,000 a month. The emoluments of my office of Alcalde were also
large. In criminal cases I received nothing for my services as judge, and in civil cases the
fees were small; but as an officer to take acknowledgments and affidavits and record deeds,
the fees I received amounted to a large sum. At one time I had $14,000 in gold dust in my safe,
besides the rentals and other property.

One day whilst I was Alcalde, a bright-looking lad, with red cheeks and apparently about seventeen
years of age, came into the office and asked if I did not want a clerk. I said I did, and would
willingly give $200 a month for a good one; but that I had written to Sacramento and was expecting
one from there. The young man suggested that perhaps the one from Sacramento would not come
or might be delayed, and he would like to take the place in the meanwhile. I replied, very
well, if he was willing to act until the other arrived, he might do so. And thereupon he took
hold and commenced work. Three days afterwards the man from Sacramento arrived; but in the
meanwhile I had become so much pleased with the brightness and quickness of my young clerk
that I would not part with him. That young clerk was George C. Gorham, the present Secretary
of the United States Senate. I remember him distinctly as he first appeared to me, with red
and rosy cheeks. His quickness of comprehension was really wonderful. Give him half an idea
of what was wanted, and he would complete it as it were by intuition. I remember on one occasion
he wanted to know what was necessary for a marriage settlement. I asked him why. He replied
that he had been employed by a French lady to prepare such a settlement, and was to receive
twenty-five dollars for the instrument. I gave him some suggestions, but added that he had
better let me see the document after he had written it. In a short time afterwards he brought
it to me, and I was astonished to find it so nearly perfect. There was only one correction
to make. And thus ready I always found him. With the most general directions he would execute
everything committed to his charge, and usually with perfect correctness. He remained with
me several months, and acted as clerk of my Alcalde court, and years afterwards, at different
times was a clerk in my office. When I went upon the bench of the Supreme Court, I appointed
him clerk of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of California, and, with
the exception of the period during which he acted as secretary of Gov. Low, he remained as
such clerk until he was nominated for the office of governor of the State, when he resigned.
Through the twenty-seven years of our acquaintance, from 1850 to the present time, July, 1877,
his friendship and esteem have been sincere and cordial, which no personal abuse of me could
change and no political differences between us could alienate. His worldly possessions would
have been more abundant had he pursued the profession of the law, which I urged him to do;
and his success as a public man would have been greater, had he been more conciliatory to those
who differed from him in opinion.

THE TURNER CONTROVERSY.

Towards the end of May, 1850, William E. Turner, who had been appointed Judge of the Eighth
Judicial District of the State by the first Legislature which convened under the Constitution,
made his appearance and announced that he intended to open the District Court at Marysville
on the first Monday of the next month. We were all pleased with the prospect of having a regular
court and endeavored, as far as lay in our power, to make the stay of the Judge with us agreeable.
I had been in the habit of receiving a package of New York newspapers by every steamer, and
among them came copies of the New York "Evening Post," which was at that time the organ of
the so-called Free-soil party. When Judge Turner arrived, I waited on him to pay my respects,
and sent him the various newspapers I had received. He had lived for years in Texas, and, as
it proved, was a man of narrow mind and bitter prejudices. He seems to have had a special prejudice
against New Yorkers and regarded a Free-soiler as an abomination. I have been told, and I believe
such to be the fact, that my sending him these newspapers, and particularly the "Evening Post,"
led him to believe that I was an "Abolitionist"--a person held in special abhorrence in those
days by gentlemen from the South. At any rate he conceived a violent dislike of me, which was
destined in a short time to show itself and cause me great annoyance. What was intended on
my part as an act of courtesy, turned out to be the beginning of a long, bitter, and on his
part, ferocious quarrel. At that time my affairs were in a very prosperous condition, as I
have already stated. I had $14,000 in gold dust, a rental of over a thousand dollars a month,
and a large amount of city property constantly increasing in value. Such being the case, I
thought I would go East on a visit, and accordingly began making arrangements to leave. But
shortly before the opening of the June term of the District Court, Captain Sutter came to me
and told me he had been sued by a man named Cameron, and wished me to appear as his counsel.
I answered that I was making arrangements to go East and he had better retain some one else.
He replied that I ought to remain long enough to appear for him and assist his attorney, and
begged of me as an act of friendship to do so. I finally consented, and deferred my departure.

Soon after the opening of the court, some time during the first week, the case of Captain Sutter
was called. A preliminary motion, made by his attorney, was decided against him. Mr. Jesse
O. Goodwin, a member of the bar, sitting near, said to me that the practice act, passed at
the recent session of the Legislature, contained a section bearing upon the question; and at
the same time handed me the act. I immediately rose, and addressing the court, remarked that
I was informed there was a statutory provision applicable to the point, and begged permission
to read it; and commenced turning over the pages of the act in search of it, when Judge Turner,
addressing me and apparently irritated, said in a petulant manner;--"The court knows the law--the
mind of the court is made up--take your seat, sir." I was amazed at hearing such language;
but in a respectful and quiet manner stated that I excepted to the decision, and appealed,
or would appeal from the order. The Judge instantly replied, in a loud and boisterous manner,
"Fine that gentleman two hundred dollars." I replied quietly, "Very well," or "Well, sir."
He immediately added, in an angry tone, "I fine him three hundred dollars, and commit him to
the custody of the sheriff eight hours." I again replied, "Very well." He instantly exclaimed,
in the same violent manner, "I fine him four hundred dollars and commit him twelve hours."
I then said that it was my right by statute to appeal from any order of his honor, and that
it was no contempt of court to give notice of an exception or an appeal, and asked the members
of the bar present if it could be so regarded. But the Judge, being very ignorant of the practice
of the law, regarded an exception to his decision as an impeachment of his judgment, and, therefore,
something like a personal affront. And so, upon my statement, he flew into a perfect rage,
and in a loud and boisterous tone cried out, "I fine him five hundred dollars and commit him
twenty-four hours--forty-eight hours--turn him out of court--subpoena a posse--subpoena me."
I then left the court-room. The attorney in the case accompanied me, and we were followed by
the deputy sheriff. After going a few steps we met the coroner, to whom the deputy sheriff
transferred me; and the coroner accompanied me to my office, and after remaining there a few
moments left me to myself. On the way an incident occurred, which probably inflamed Judge Turner
against me more than anything else that could have happened. The attorney, who was much exasperated
at the conduct of the Judge, said to me as we met the coroner, "Never mind what the Judge does;
he is an old fool." I replied, "Yes, he is an old jackass." This was said in an ordinary conversational
tone; but a man by the name of Captain Powers, with whom Turner boarded, happened to overhear
it, and running to the court-house, and opening the door, he hallooed out, "Judge Turner! oh,
Judge Turner! Judge Field says you are an old jackass." A shout followed, and the Judge seemed
puzzled whether or not he should send an officer after me, or punish his excitable friend for
repeating my language.

I remained in my office the remainder of the day, and many people who were present in court,
or heard of what had occurred, called to see me. I immediately wrote out a full statement of
everything that happened in the court-room, and had it verified by a number of persons who
were eye and ear witnesses of the affair. Towards evening the deputy sheriff met the Judge,
who asked him what he had done with me. The deputy answered that I had gone to my office and
was still there. The Judge said, "Go and put him under lock and key, and, if necessary, put
him in irons." The deputy came to me and said, "The Judge has sent me to put you under lock
and key; let me turn the key upon you in your own office." At this I became indignant, and
asked for his warrant or commitment to hold me. He replied that he had none, that only a verbal
order was given to him by the Judge in the street. I then told him he must go away from me
and leave me alone. He replied that, "as he was acting by the orders of the sheriff, whose
deputy he was, in obeying the Judge, he must do as he had been directed." He added, "I will
lock the door anyway," and doing so he went off. I immediately sued out a writ of habeas corpus
returnable before Henry P. Haun, the County Judge. The writ was executed forthwith, and the
same evening I was taken before the Judge. There was a great crowd present. I called the sheriff
to the stand and asked him if he had any writ, process, commitment, or order by which he held
me in custody. He replied that he had none. I then put on the stand Samuel B. Mulford and Jesse
O. Goodwin and several others, who were present in the District Court where the scenes narrated
had occurred, and they testified that there was nothing disrespectful in my language or manner;
that I had not used an expression at which anybody could justly take offence; and that they
had been utterly surprised at the conduct of the Judge, which was violent and tyrannical; and
that they saw no possible excuse for it. This testimony was of course of no consequence on
the question presented by the habeas corpus; because, as there was no order or warrant for
my arrest in the possession of the officer, I could not, under any circumstances, be held;
but I wished to show my friends, who had not been present in the court-room, the facts of the case.

I was of course at once discharged. But the matter did not end there. An excited crowd was
present, and as I left the court-room they cheered enthusiastically. I thereupon invited them
to the Covillaud House, a public house in the town, and directed the keeper to dispense to
them the good things of his bar. The champagne was accordingly uncorked without stint, and
the best Havana boxes were soon emptied of their most fragrant cigars. A bill of $290 paid
the next day settled the account. Whilst the boys were thus enjoying themselves, Judge Turner,
who was not far off, entered the Covillaud House, perfectly furious, and applied obscene and
vile epithets to the County Judge, declaring with an oath that he would teach "that fellow"
that he was an inferior judge, and that the witnesses before him were a set of "perjured scoundrels"
who should be expelled from the bar. Similar threats were made by him in different saloons
in the town, to the disgust of every one. That evening he was burned in effigy in the public
plaza. I had nothing to do with that act, and did not approve of it. I did not know then, and
do not know to this day who were engaged in it. He attributed it to me, however, and his exasperation
towards me in consequence became a malignant fury.

On the Monday following, June 10th, which was the first day on which the court was held after
the scenes narrated, Judge Turner, on the opening of the court, before the minutes of the previous
session were read, and without notice to the parties, or any hearing of them, although they
were present at the time, ordered that Judge Haun be fined fifty dollars and be imprisoned
forty-eight hours for his judicial act in discharging me from arrest, under some pretence that
the order of the court had been thus obstructed by him. At the same time he ordered that I
should be re-imprisoned, and that Mr. Mulford, Mr. Goodwin, and myself should be expelled from
the bar; myself for suing out the writ, and those two gentlemen for being witnesses on its
return, under the pretence that we had "vilified the court and denounced its proceedings."
Judge Haun paid his fine and left the court-room, and I was again taken into custody by the
sheriff.[1]

It happened to be the day appointed by law for the opening of the Court of Sessions of the
county, over which the County Judge presided. Judge Haun proceeded from the District Court
to the room engaged for the Court of Sessions, and there, in connection with an associate justice,
opened that court. Immediately afterwards I sued out another writ of habeas corpus, returnable
forthwith, and whilst before the court arguing for my discharge under the writ, the sheriff
entered and declared his intention of taking me out of the room, and of taking Judge Haun from
the bench and putting us in confinement, pursuant to the order of Judge Turner. Judge Haun
told the sheriff that the Court of Sessions was holding its regular term; that he was violating
the law, and that the court must not be disturbed in its proceedings. Judge Turner was then
informed that the Court of Sessions was sitting; that Judge Haun was on the bench, and that
I was arguing before the court on a writ of habeas corpus. Judge Turner immediately ordered
a posse to be summoned and appealed to gentlemen in the court-room to serve on it, and directed
the sheriff to take Judge Haun and myself into custody by force, notwithstanding Judge Haun
was on the bench, and I was arguing my case; and if necessary to put Judge Haun in irons--to
handcuff him. Soon afterwards the sheriff, with a posse, entered the room of the Court of Sessions,
and forced me out of it, and was proceeding to seize Judge Haun on the bench, when the Judge
stepped to a closet and drew from it a navy revolver, cocked it, and, pointing it towards the
sheriff, informed him in a stern manner that he was violating the law; that whilst on the bench
he, the Judge, could not be arrested, and that if the sheriff attempted to do so he would kill
him. At the same time he fined the sheriff for contempt of court $200, and appointed a temporary
bailiff to act, and directed him to clear the court-room of the disturbers. The new bailiff
summoned all the bystanders, who instantly responded, and the court-room was immediately cleared.
Judge Haun then laid his revolver on a drawer before him, and inquired if there was any business
ready; for if so the court would hear it. There being none, the court adjourned.

I regret to be compelled to add, that notwithstanding the manly and courageous conduct which
Judge Haun had thus shown, no sooner was the court adjourned than he was persuaded to make
a qualified apology to the District Court for discharging me, by sending a communication to
it, stating "that if he was guilty of obstructing the order of the court in releasing Field,
he did it ignorantly, not intending any contempt by so doing;" and thereupon the District Court
ordered that he be released from confinement, and that his fine be remitted.[2]

Of course there was great excitement through the town as soon as these proceedings became known.
That night nearly all Marysville came to my office. I made a speech to the people. Afterwards
some of them passed in front of Turner's house, and gave him three groans. They then dispersed,
and in returning home some of them fired off their pistols as a sort of finale to the proceedings
of the evening. The firing was not within three hundred yards of Turner's house; but he seized
hold of the fact of firing, and stated that he had been attacked in his house by an armed mob.
He also charged that I had instigated the crowd to attack him, but the facts are as I have
stated them. There was a great deal of feeling on the part of the people, who generally sided
with me; but I did nothing to induce them to violate the law or disturb the peace. Even if
I wished to do so, prudence and policy counselled otherwise.

When Turner caused the names of Mulford, Goodwin, and myself, to be stricken from the roll
of attorneys, we, of course, could no longer appear as counsel in his court. I at once prepared
the necessary papers, and applied to the Supreme Court of the State for a mandamus to compel
him to vacate the order and reinstate us. I took the ground that an attorney and counsellor,
by his admission to the bar, acquired rights of which he could not be arbitrarily deprived;
that he could not, under any circumstances, be expelled from the bar without charges being
preferred against him and an opportunity afforded to be heard in his defence; that the proceedings
of Judge Turner being ex-parte, without charges preferred, and without notice, were void; and
that a mandate, directing him to vacate the order of expulsion and restore us to the bar, ought
to be issued immediately.

In addition, to this application, I also moved for a mandamus to him to vacate the order imposing
a fine and imprisonment upon me for the alleged contempt of his court, or for such other order
in the premises as might be just. I took the ground, that as the order did not show any act
committed which could constitute a contempt of court, it was void on its face, and should be
so declared. My old friend, Gregory Yale, assisted me in the presentation of these motions.
In deciding them, the court delivered two opinions, in which these positions were sustained.
They are reported under the titles of People, ex rel. Mulford et al., vs. Turner, 1 Cal., 143;
and People, ex rel. Field vs. Turner, 1 Cal., 152. In the first case, a peremptory writ of
mandamus was issued, directed to Judge Turner, ordering him to reinstate us as attorneys; in
the second, a writ of certiorari was issued to bring up the order imposing a fine, which was
subsequently reversed and vacated, as shown in Ex-parte Field, 1 Cal., 187. The opinions referred
to were delivered by Judge Bennett, and are models of their kind. Many years afterwards, when
a somewhat similar question came before the Supreme Court of the United States, I was called
upon to announce its judgment; and in doing so, I followed these opinions, as may be seen by
reference to the case of Ex-parte Robinson, 19 Wallace, 510. I there repeated substantially
the doctrine of Judge Bennett, which is the only doctrine that will protect an attorney and
counsellor from the tyranny of an arbitrary and capricious officer, and preserve to him his
self-respect and independence.

When the order for our restoration came down from the Supreme Court, Turner refused to obey
it; and wrote a scurrilous "Address to the Public" about us, which he published in one of the
newspapers. We replied in a sharp and bitter article, signed by ourselves and five other gentlemen;
and at the same time we published a petition to the Governor, signed by all the prominent citizens
of Marysville, asking for Judge Turner's removal. There was a general impression in those days
that Judges appointed before the admission of the State into the Union held their offices subject
to removal by the Governor. I hardly know how this impression originated, but probably in some
vague notions about the powers of Mexican Governors. However this may be, such was the general
notion, and in accordance with it, a petition for Turner's removal was started, and, as I have
said, was very generally signed.[3] The matter had by this time assumed such a serious character,
and the Judge's conduct was so atrocious, that the people became alarmed and with great unanimity
demanded his deposition from office.

In the article referred to as published by us, we said, after setting forth the facts, that
"Judge Turner is a man of depraved tastes, of vulgar habits, of an ungovernable temper, reckless
of truth when his passions are excited, and grossly incompetent to discharge the duties of
his office." Unfortunately the statement was perfectly true. He refused to obey the mandate
of the Supreme Court, even talked of setting that court at defiance, and went around saying
that every one who had signed an affidavit against him was a "perjured villain," and that as
to Goodwin, Mulford, and Field, he would "cut their ears off." He frequented the gambling saloons,
associated with disreputable characters, and was addicted to habits of the most disgusting
intoxication. Besides being abusive in his language, he threatened violence, and gave out that
he intended to insult me publicly the first time we met, and that, if I resented his conduct,
he would shoot me down on the spot. This being reported to me by various persons, I went to
San Francisco and consulted Judge Bennett as to what course I ought to pursue. Judge Bennett
asked if I were certain that he had made such a threat. I replied I was. "Well," said the Judge,
"I will not give you any advice; but if it were my case, I think I should get a shot-gun and
stand on the street, and see that I had the first shot." I replied that "I could not do that;
that I would act only in self-defence." He replied, "That would be acting in self-defence."
When I came to California, I came with all those notions, in respect to acts of violence, which
are instilled into New England youth; if a man were rude, I would turn away from him. But I
soon found that men in California were likely to take very great liberties with a person who
acted in such a manner, and that the only way to get along was to hold every man responsible,
and resent every trespass upon one's rights. Though I was not prepared to follow Judge Bennett's
suggestion, I did purchase a pair of revolvers and had a sack-coat made with pockets in which
the barrels could lie, and be discharged; and I began to practice firing the pistols from the
pockets. In time I acquired considerable skill, and was able to hit a small object across the
street. An object so large as a man I could have hit without difficulty. I had come to the
conclusion that if I had to give up my independence; if I had to avoid a man because I was
afraid he would attack me; if I had to cross the street every time I saw him coming, life itself
was not worth having.

Having determined neither to seek him nor to shun him, I asked a friend to carry a message
to him, and to make sure that it would reach him, I told different parties what I had sent,
and I was confident that they would repeat it to him. "Tell him from me," I said, "that I do
not want any collision with him; that I desire to avoid all personal difficulties; but that
I shall not attempt to avoid him; that I shall not cross the street on his account, nor go
a step out of my way for him; that I have heard of his threats, and that if he attacks me or
comes at me in a threatening manner I will kill him."[4] I acted on my plan. I often met him
in the streets and in saloons, and whenever I drew near him I dropped my hand into my pocket
and cocked my pistols to be ready for any emergency. People warned me to look out for him;
to beware of being taken at a disadvantage; and I was constantly on my guard. I felt that I
was in great danger; but after awhile this sense of danger had a sort of fascination, and I
often went to places where he was, to which I would not otherwise have gone. Whenever I met
him I kept my eye on him, and whenever I passed him on the street I turned around and narrowly
watched him until he had gone some distance. I am persuaded if I had taken any other course,
I should have been killed. I do not say Turner would have deliberately shot me down, or that
he would have attempted anything against me in his sober moments; but when excited with drink,
and particularly when in the presence of the lawless crowds who heard his threats, it would
have taken but little to urge him on. As it turned out, however, he never interfered with me,
perhaps because he knew I was armed and believed that, if I were attacked, somebody, and perhaps
more than one, would be badly hurt. I have been often assured by citizens of Marysville that
it was only the seeming recklessness of my conduct, and the determination I showed not to avoid
him or go out of his way, that saved me. But at the same time my business was ruined. Not only
was I prevented, by his refusal to obey the mandate of the Supreme Court, from appearing as
an advocate, but I could not, on account of the relation I occupied towards him, practice at
all; nor could I, under the circumstances, leave Marysville and make my intended visit East.
Having nothing else to do, I went into speculations which failed, and in a short time--a much
shorter time than it took to make my money--I lost nearly all I had acquired and became involved
in debt.

[1] See Exhibit D, in Appendix.

RUNNING FOR THE LEGISLATURE.

One morning about this time I unexpectedly found myself in the newspapers, nominated by my
friends as a candidate for the lower house of the Legislature. Who the friends were that named
me I did not know; but the nomination opened a new field and suggested new ideas. I immediately
accepted the candidacy. Judge Turner had threatened, among other things, to drive me into the
Yuba River. I now turned upon him, and gave out that my object in wishing to go to the Legislature
was to reform the judiciary, and, among other things, to remove him from the district. I canvassed
the county thoroughly and was not backward in portraying him in his true colors. He and his
associates spared no efforts to defeat me. Their great reliance consisted in creating the belief
that I was an abolitionist. If that character could have been fastened upon me it would have
been fatal to my hopes, for it was a term of great reproach. Yuba County then comprised the
present county of that name, and also what are now Nevada and Sierra Counties. It was over
a hundred miles in length and about fifty in width, and had a population of twenty-five thousand
people, being the most populous mining region in the State. I visited nearly every precinct
and spoke whenever I could get an audience. An incident of the canvass may not be uninteresting.
I went to the town of Nevada a little more than a week before the election. As I was riding
through its main street a gentleman whom I had long known, General John Anderson, hailed me,
and, after passing a few words, said, "Field, you won't get fifty votes here." I asked, "Why
not?" He replied, "Because everybody is for McCarty, your opponent." I said, somewhat sharply,
"Anderson, I have come here to fight my own battle and I intend to carry Nevada." He laughed
and I rode on. The first man I met after reaching the hotel was Captain Morgan, who afterwards
commanded a steamer on the Bay of San Francisco. After talking for some time on general topics,
he asked me about a story in circulation that I was an abolitionist. I saw at once the work
of enemies, and I now understood the meaning of General Anderson's remark. I assured Morgan
that the story was entirely false, and added; "To-morrow will be Sunday; everybody will be
in town; I will then make a speech and show the people what kind of a man I am, and what my
sentiments are on this and other subjects." Accordingly, the next day, in the afternoon, when
the miners from the country were in town and had nothing else to do than to be amused, I mounted
a platform erected for the purpose in the main street, and commenced speaking. I soon had a
crowd of listeners. I began about my candidacy, and stated what I expected to do if elected.
I referred to the necessity of giving greater jurisdiction to the local magistrates, in order
that contests of miners respecting their claims might be tried in their vicinity. As things
then existed the right to a mule could not be litigated without going to the county seat, at
a cost greater than the value of the animal. I was in favor of legislation which would protect
miners in their claims, and exempt their tents, rockers, and utensils used in mining from forced
sale. I was in favor of dividing the county, and making Nevada the seat of the new county.
I had heard of numerous measures they wanted, and I told them how many of these measures I
advocated. Having got their attention and excited their interest, I referred to the charge
made against me of being an abolitionist, and denounced it as a base calumny. In proof of the
charge I was told that I had a brother in New York who was a free-soiler. So I had, I replied,
and a noble fellow he is--God bless him wherever he may be. But I added, I have another brother
who is a slaveholder in Tennessee, and with which one, I asked, in the name of all that is
good, were they going to place me. I wondered if these "honorable" men, who sought by such
littleness to defeat me, did not find out whether I did not have some other relatives,--women,
perhaps, who believed in things unearthly and spiritual,--whose opinions they could quote to
defeat me. Shame on such tactics, I said, and the crowd answered by loud cheering. I then went
on to give my views of our government, of the relation between the general government of the
Union and the government of the States, to show that the former was created for national purposes
which the States could not well accomplish--that we might have uniformity of commercial regulations,
one army and one navy, a common currency, and the same postal system, and present ourselves
as one nation to foreign countries--but that all matters of domestic concern were under the
control and management of the States, with which outsiders could not interfere; that slavery
was a domestic institution which each State must regulate for itself, without question or interference
from others. In other words, I made a speech in favor of State Rights, which went home to my
hearers, who were in great numbers from the South. I closed with a picture of the future of
California, and of the glories of a country bounded by two oceans. When I left the platform
the cheers which followed showed that I had carried the people with me. McCarty, my opponent,
followed, but his speech fell flat. Half his audience left before he had concluded.

The election took place a week from the following Monday. I remained in Nevada until it was
over. At the precinct in town where I had spoken, I had between three and four hundred majority,
and in another precinct in the outskirts I had a majority of two to one. In the county generally
I ran well, and was elected, notwithstanding the fact that I was not the nominee of any convention
or the candidate of any party. The morning following the election, as I was leaving Nevada,
I rode by the store of General Anderson, and hailing him, inquired what he thought now of my
getting fifty votes in the town. "Well," he replied, "it was that Sunday speech of yours which
did the business. McCarty could not answer it."

There was one thing in the election which I regretted, and that was that I did not carry Marysville;
a majority of the votes of its citizens was cast for my opponent. It is true that there the
greater number of gamblers and low characters of the county were gathered, but the better class
predominated in numbers, and I looked with confidence to its support. My regret, however, was
sensibly diminished when I learned the cause of the failure of a portion of the people to give
me their votes. Some few weeks previous to the day of election a man was killed in the street
by a person by the name of Keiger, who was immediately arrested. The person killed was about
leaving the State, and owed a small debt to Keiger, which he refused either to pay or to give
security for its payment. Exasperated by his refusal, Keiger drew a pistol and shot him. I
was sent for by an acquaintance of Keiger to attend his examination before the local magistrate,
by whom he was held for the action of the grand jury. In the afternoon of the same day a large
crowd assembled in the streets, with the purpose of proceeding to the summary execution of
Keiger. Whilst the people were in a great state of excitement I made a speech to them, begging
them not to resort to violence and thus cast reproach upon the good name of Marysville, but
to let the law take its course, assuring them that justice would certainly be administered
by the courts. My remarks were received with evident displeasure, and I am inclined to think
that violence would have been resorted to had not the prisoner been secretly removed from the
city and taken to Sacramento. The exasperation of a large number, at this escape of their intended
victim, vented itself on me, and cost me at least a hundred votes in the city. I would not
have acted otherwise had I known beforehand that such would be the result of my conduct. When
the civil tribunals are open and in the undisturbed exercise of their jurisdiction, a resort
to violence can never be approved or excused.

I witnessed some strange scenes during the campaign, which well illustrated the anomalous condition
of society in the county. I will mention one of them. As I approached Grass Valley, then a
beautiful spot among the hills, occupied principally by Mr. Walsh, a name since become familiar
to Californians, I came to a building by the wayside, a small lodging-house and drinking-saloon,
opposite to which a Lynch jury were sitting, trying a man upon a charge of stealing gold dust.
I stopped and watched for awhile the progress of the trial. On an occasion of some little delay
in the proceedings, I mentioned to those present, the jury included, that I was a candidate
for the Legislature, and that I would be glad if they would join me in a glass in the saloon,
an invitation which was seldom declined in those days. It was at once accepted, and leaving
the accused in the hands of an improvised constable, the jury entered the house and partook
of the drinks which its bar afforded. I had discovered, or imagined from the appearance of
the prisoner, that he had been familiar in other days with a very different life from that
of California, and my sympathies were moved towards him. So, after the jurors had taken their
drinks and were talking pleasantly together, I slipped out of the building and approaching
the man, said to him, "What is the case against you? Can I help you?" The poor fellow looked
up to me and his eyes filled with great globules of tears as he replied. "I am innocent of
all I am charged with. I have never stolen anything nor cheated any one; but I have no one
here to befriend me." That was enough for me. Those eyes, filled as they were, touched my heart.
I hurried back to the saloon; and as the jurors were standing about chatting with each other
I exclaimed, "How is this? you have not had your cigars? Mr. bar-keeper, please give the gentlemen
the best you have; and, besides, I added, let us have another 'smile'--it is not often you
have a candidate for the Legislature among you." A laugh followed, and a ready acceptance was
given to the invitation. In the meantime my eyes rested upon a benevolent-looking man among
the jury, and I singled him out for conversation. I managed to draw him aside and inquired
what State he came from. He replied, from Connecticut. I then asked if his parents lived there.
He answered, with a faltering voice, "My father is dead; my mother and sister are there." I
then said, "Your thoughts, I dare say, go out constantly to them; and you often write to them,
of course." His eyes glistened, and I saw pearl-like dew-drops gathering in them; his thoughts
were carried over the mountains to his old home. "Ah, my good friend," I added "how their hearts
must rejoice to hear from you." Then, after a short pause, I remarked, "What is the case against
your prisoner? He, too, perhaps, may have a mother and sister in the East, thinking of him
as your mother and sister do of you, and wondering when he will come back. For God's sake remember
this." The heart of the good man responded in a voice which, even to this day--now nearly twenty-seven
years past--sounds like a delicious melody in my ears: "I will do so." Passing from him I went
to the other jurors, and, finding they were about to go back to the trial, I exclaimed, "Don't
be in a hurry, gentlemen, let us take another glass." They again acceded to my request, and
seeing that they were a little mellowed by their indulgence, I ventured to speak about the
trial. I told them that the courts of the state were organized, and there was no necessity
or justification now for Lynch juries; that the prisoner appeared to be without friends, and
I appealed to them, as men of large hearts, to think how they would feel if they were accused
of crime where they had no counsel and no friends. "Better send him, gentlemen, to Marysville
for trial, and keep your own hands free from stain." A pause ensued; their hearts were softened;
and, fortunately, a man going to Marysville with a wagon coming up at this moment, I prevailed
upon them to put the prisoner in his charge to be taken there. The owner of the wagon consenting,
they swore him to take the prisoner to that place and deliver him over to the sheriff; and
to make sure that he would keep the oath, I handed him a "slug," a local coin of octagonal
form of the value of fifty dollars, issued at that time by assayers in San Francisco. We soon
afterwards separated. As I moved away on my horse my head swam a little, but my heart was joyous.
Of all things which I can recall of the past, this is one of the most pleasant. I believe I
saved the prisoner's life; for in those days there was seldom any escape for a person tried
by a Lynch jury.

The expenses of the election were very great. It was difficult to interest the miners in it;
most of them had come to the country in the hope of improving their fortunes in one or two
years, and then returning to "the States." It was, therefore, a matter of little moment to
them who were chosen members of the coming Legislature. Party lines were not regarded among
them, and party questions could not draw many of them from their labors. As I was an independent
candidate, not supported by any party, I had to bear the whole expenses of the campaign. How
great those expenses were may be imagined from the following bill, one of a large number sent
to me after the election. I had told the saloon-keepers in the vicinity of the polling places
in the different precincts to be liberally disposed towards my friends on the day of election.
They took me literally at my word, as this bill from the keeper of a saloon where the polls
were opened in Downieville precinct will show:

      Mr. S.J. FIELD,

                       TO ORLEANS HOUSE.

    To 460 drinks................................ $230 00
       275 cigars................................   68 75
                                                   ------
      Downieville, October 9th, 1850.           $298 75

                         [Endorsed:]

    "We hereby certify that the within account is correct.

                                            "P.L. Moore.
                                            "Wm. S. Spear."

    "Received payment of the within bill in full from Stephen J. Field.

                                            "J. Stratman.

      "October 14th, 1850."

THE TURNER CONTROVERSY CONTINUED

It was not until after my election that Judge Turner paid any attention to the mandate of the
Supreme Court commanding him to vacate his order of expulsion against myself and Messrs. Goodwin
and Mulford, and to restore us to the bar. The mandate was issued on the fourth of July, and
was served on the Judge on the sixteenth. He immediately and publicly declared that he would
not obey it, but would stand an impeachment first. Whilst attending the Supreme Court on the
application for the writ, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Mulford, and myself, were admitted as attorneys
and counsellors of that court, and that admission under its rules entitled us to practice in
all the courts of the State. The effect of this, which re-instated us in the District Court,
he determined to defeat. He accordingly directed the sheriff of the county to notify us to
show cause, before the court in Sutter County, why we should not be again expelled from the
bar for the publication of the article in the Placer Times, to which I have referred, written
in reply to his attack on us in his "Address to the Public." The order was dated on the fourth
of October, and was served on the eighth, and required us to appear on the first Thursday of
the month, which was the third. As the time for appearance was previous to the day of service
and to the date of the order, no attention was paid to it. The Judge, however, proceeded, and
on the eleventh of the month made another order of expulsion. After the adjournment of the
court, he discovered his blunder, and at once issued another direction to the sheriff to notify
us that the last order of expulsion was suspended until the twenty-eighth of October, and to
show cause on that day why we should not be again expelled. In the meantime, the Judge made
no concealment of his purposes, but publicly declared in the saloons of the town that if we
did not appear upon this second notice, he would make an order for our expulsion, and if we
did appear, he would expel us for contempt in publishing the reply to his article, which he
termed a false and slanderous communication. We knew, of course, that it would be useless to
appear and attempt to resist his threatened action; still we concluded to appear and put in
an answer. Accordingly, on the day designated, we presented ourselves before the court in Sutter
County. I was the first one called upon to show cause why I should not be again expelled. I
stated that I was ready, and first read an affidavit of one of the Associate Justices of the
Court of Sessions, to show that the Judge had declared his purpose to expel myself and the
other gentlemen in any event, and that it was an idle ceremony to call upon us to show cause
against such threatened action. As soon as it was read, the Judge declared that it was not
respectful and could not be received. I then began to read my answer to the order to show cause,
but was stopped when I had read about one half of it, and was told that it was not respectful
and could not be received. I then requested permission to file it, but my request was refused.
Mr. Mulford being called upon to show cause why he should not be expelled, began to read an
answer, but was stopped after reading a few lines. His answer was respectful, and was substantially
to the effect that he had been admitted as attorney and counsellor in the Supreme Court on
the previous July, and was thus entitled to practice in all the courts of the State; that the
communication in the Placer Times was written in reply to an article of the Judge, and that
he was ready at the proper time and place to substantiate its truth; and he protested against
the Judge's interfering in the matter in the manner indicated in the notice. Mr. Goodwin being
called upon, took in his answer substantially the same grounds as Mr. Mulford. Immediately
after Mr. Goodwin took his seat, without a moment's hesitation, the Judge made an order that
his previous order of the eleventh of October, expelling us, should be confirmed, and that
the order should be published in the Sacramento Times and the San Francisco Herald. I immediately
took the proper steps to obtain another mandate from the Supreme Court to vacate this second
expulsion; and also to attach the Judge for non-compliance with the original mandate, the first
order of expulsion still being unvacated on the records of the court. At the January term,
1851, the applications to the court in both cases were decided, and they are reported in the
1st California Reports, at pages 189 and 190. In the attachment case, the court denied the
application on the ground that no motion had been made by us or any one on our behalf to cause
the original order of expulsion to be vacated, and that the Judge had, in the proceedings to
expel us, substantially recognized us as re-instated. In the other case, the court decided
that the proceedings to re-expel us were irregular, and directed an alternative writ to issue,
commanding the Judge to vacate the order and to permit us to practice in all the courts of
the district, or to show cause to the contrary, at the next term. No cause was ever shown;
and thus ended the attempts of an ignorant, malicious, and brutal judge to keep us out of the
profession of our choice. Mr. Goodwin has since held many positions of honor and trust in the
State. He was elected District Attorney at the same time that I was elected to the Legislature,
and afterwards was Judge of Yuba County, and is now (1877) a member of the State Senate. Mr.
Mulford was afterwards and until his death a successful practitioner at the bar of Marysville,
and was in all the affairs of life respected as a high-spirited and honorable man.

But with Judge Turner I have not yet done. I have a long story still to relate with respect
to him. After my election to the Legislature was ascertained, he became exceedingly solicitous
to prevent in advance my exerting any influence in it. He expected that I would attack him,
and endeavor to secure his impeachment, and he wanted to break me down if possible. He accordingly
published a pamphlet purporting to be a statement of the charges that I preferred against him,
which was, however, little else than a tirade of low abuse of myself and the editor of the
Marysville Herald, in the columns of which the conduct of the Judge had been the subject of
just criticism and censure. There was nothing in the miserable swaggering billingsgate of the
publication which merited a moment's notice, but as in one passage he stated that he had attempted
to chastise me with a whip, and that I had fled to avoid him, I published in the Marysville
Herald the following card:

    A CARD.

    Judge William E. Turner, in a "statement" published over his
    signature on the 12th instant, asserts that he attempted to
    chastise me with a switch, and that I fled to avoid him. This
    assertion is a shameless lie. I never, to my recollection,
    saw Judge Turner with a switch or a whip in his hand. He has
    made, as I am informed, many threats of taking personal
    vengeance on myself, but he has never attempted to put any of
    them into execution. I have never avoided him, but on the
    contrary have passed him in the street almost every day for
    the last four months. When he attempts to carry any of his
    threats into execution, I trust that I shall not forget, at
    the time, what is due to myself.

    Judge Turner says he holds himself personally responsible in
    and under all circumstances. This he says in print; but it
    is well understood in this place that he has stated he should
    feel bound by his oath of office to endeavor to obtain an
    indictment against any gentleman who should attempt to call
    him to account. Shielded behind his oath of office he has
    displayed his character by childish boasts of personal courage
    and idle threats of vengeance.

    STEPHEN J. FIELD.
    MARYSVILLE, Dec. 21st, 1850.

There were also annexed to the publication of Turner, letters from different persons expressive
of their opinion of his general bearing on the bench and courtesy to them. Among these was
one from John T. McCarty, the candidate against me at the recent election, in which he spoke
in high terms of the Judge's conduct on the bench, and assailed me as his calumniator, applying
to me sundry coarse epithets. In answer to this letter I published in the Herald the following
card:

    JOHN T. MCCARTY.

    John T. McCarty, in a letter to Judge William E. Turner, dated
    the 22d of November, takes occasion to apply several vile
    epithets to myself, and uses the following language to Judge
    Turner: "Having been present at the first term of your court
    ever held in this district, and most of your courts since that
    time, and being familiar with almost every decision and your
    entire conduct upon the bench, I take pleasure in saying that
    I never have practiced before any court where there was so
    great a dispatch of business, so much order and general
    satisfaction rendered by the rules and decisions of the court,
    and that, notwithstanding the base denunciations of your
    enemies, a large majority of the people who have attended your
    courts approve and sustain your positions and decisions."

    During the session of the District Court, at its first term,
    this same John T. McCarty was called before the County Judge
    to give his testimony on the return of a writ of habeas
    corpus, and then he testified "that the conduct of Judge
    Turner on the bench was the most outrageous he had ever
    witnessed in any court in which he had practiced;" and the
    tenor and effect of his whole testimony was in the highest
    degree condemnatory of the conduct of Judge Turner.

    One of two things follows: If the statement in the letter be
    true, then John T. McCarty was guilty of perjury before the
    County Judge; but if he testified to the truth, then his
    statement in the letter is false. In the one case he is a liar
    and in the other a perjured scoundrel. Thus convicted out of
    his own mouth, his vile epithets respecting myself are not
    worth a moment's consideration.

    STEPHEN J. FIELD.
    MARYSVILLE, Dec. 21st, 1850.

On my return from the Legislature, and afterwards, this same McCarty was in my presence the
most abject and humble wretch I knew in Marysville. He almost piteously begged recognition
by me, and was ready to go down on his knees for it. He was a blustering miscreant, full of
courage where no force was required, and ready to run at the first appearance of a fight. He
was one of a class, all of whom are alike, in whom bluster, toadyism, and pusillanimity go
in concert, and are about equally developed in degree.

LIFE IN THE LEGISLATURE

Immediately after the election I commenced the preparation of a bill relating to the courts
and judicial officers of the State, intending to present it early in the session. The Legislature
met at San Jose on the first Monday of January, 1851, and I was placed on the Judiciary Committee
of the House. My first business was to call the attention of the Committee to the bill I had
drawn. It met their approval, was reported with a favorable recommendation, and after a full
discussion was passed. Its principal provisions remained in force for many years, and most
of them are retained in the Code, which went into effect in January, 1873. It created eleven
judicial districts and defined the jurisdiction and powers of every judicial officer in the
State, from a Supreme Judge to a Justice of the Peace. It provided that the then incumbent
District Judges should continue to be the Judges of the new Districts according to their respective
numbers. At the same time I introduced a bill dividing the county of Trinity, and creating
that of Klamath; and also a bill dividing the county of Yuba, and creating that of Nevada;
and I so arranged it that out of Trinity and Klamath a new Eighth Judicial District was created,
and out of Yuba, Nevada, and Sutter a Tenth Judicial District. Thus Turner, being Judge of
the Eighth District, was sent to the then comparative wilderness of Trinity and Klamath; and
the Tenth District was to have a new judge. After this bill was passed I presented petitions
from the citizens of Yuba County, and of that part which now constitutes Nevada County, praying
for the impeachment of Turner, and his removal from office, charging as grounds for it his
incompetency from ignorance to discharge its duties, his arbitrary and tyrannical conduct towards
the County Judge and members of the Marysville bar, the particulars of which I have related,
his contemptuous treatment of the writ of habeas corpus, and his general immoral conduct.

A committee was thereupon appointed to which the petitions were referred, with power to send
for persons and papers. The testimony taken by them fully established the charges preferred.
Indeed, there was no serious attempt made to refute them. The only evidence offered in behalf
of the Judge was that of a few persons who testified that they had been treated by him with
courtesy in some instances and that good order had been maintained in court when they were
present. There is no doubt that the impeachment would have been ordered but for a strong desire
of the members to bring the session to a close, and a report which had obtained credence, that
after the passage of the court bill, by which Turner was sent out of the eighth district, I
was content to let the question of impeachment be indefinitely postponed. The testimony taken
was reported by the Committee on the 15th of April. His impeachment would have required a trial
by the Senate, which would have prolonged the session at least a month, and to this members
were much averse. Parties came to me and said, "Judge, what's the use of pressing this matter.
You have sent Turner where there are only grizzly bears and Indians; why not let him remain
there? He can do no harm there." I replied that he was not fit to be a judge anywhere, and
I refused assent to a postponement of the matter. Afterwards, when the vote was about to be
taken, a Senator and a personal friend of Turner, misinterpreting some expressions of mine
that I desired to bring the matter to a speedy close, privately stated to members of the House
that I had declared myself satisfied by the passage of the court bill and was willing to let
the impeachment be dropped, it being understood that this course would not be taken as a sanction
of the Judge's conduct. To my astonishment, members who had said only half an hour before that
they should vote for the impeachment now voted for an indefinite postponement, which was carried
by three votes--fifteen to twelve. I did not vote, and three members who strongly favored the
impeachment were absent at the time. Seven of the members who voted for the indefinite postponement
afterwards informed me that they had done so under the impression that such a disposition of
the matter would be satisfactory to me, and that if a direct vote had been taken on the charges
they should have voted for the impeachment. Here the matter ended; I did not pursue it. Turner
did not go back to Marysville and I had no further trouble with him.[1]

To understand fully the legislation with which I was connected, and its effect upon the State,
one must be familiar with the history of the country and the condition of its people. In addition
to the act concerning the courts and judicial officers referred to, I took up the Code of Civil
Procedure, as reported by the Commissioners in New York, remodelled it so as to adapt it to
the different condition of things and the different organization of the courts in California,
and secured its passage. It became what was known as the California Civil Practice Act, and
was afterwards adopted in Nevada and in the Territories west of the Rocky Mountains.

I also took up the Code of Criminal Procedure, as reported by the same Commissioners, and remodelled
that in the same way and secured its passage. It constituted what was afterwards known as the
California Criminal Practice Act, and was also adopted in the State and Territories mentioned.
The amount of labor bestowed upon these acts will be appreciated when I state that I recast,
in the two, over three hundred sections, and added over one hundred new ones. I devoted so
much attention and earnestness to the work, that in a short time the Legislature placed implicit
confidence in everything relating to the judiciary which I recommended. The Criminal Practice
Act, for instance, remodelled as stated, consisting of over six hundred sections, was never
read before the Legislature at all. The rules were suspended and the bill read by its title
and passed. When it came before the Governor, on the last day of the session, he said he could
not sign it without reading it, and it was too late for him to do that. I represented to him
that its passage was essential to secure the harmonious working of laws already passed. Turning
to me he said, "You say it is all right?" I replied, "Yes;" and thereupon he signed it.

I have already stated that I moved Turner's impeachment. After the testimony was taken I addressed
the House upon the subject. In reply to my remarks a member, by the name of B.F. Moore, from
Tuolumne County, took occasion to make an abusive attack on me. It was the common practice
in those days to go armed. Of the thirty-six members of which the Assembly then consisted,
over two-thirds never made their appearance without having knives or pistols upon their persons,
and frequently both. It was a thing of every-day occurrence for a member, when he entered the
House, before taking his seat, to take off his pistols and lay them in the drawer of his desk.
He did it with as little concern and as much a matter of course, as he took off his hat and
hung it up. Nor did such a thing excite surprise or comment. But when Mr. Moore rose to reply
to me, he first ostentatiously opened his drawer, took out his revolvers, cocked them, and
laid them in the open drawer before him. He then launched out into a speech of the most opprobrious
language, applying to me offensive epithets, and frequently interspersing his remarks with
the declaration that he was responsible for what he said, both there and elsewhere. It is difficult
for me to describe the indignation I felt at this outrageous assault and the manner in which
it was made. Its very fierceness made me calm, as it is said that a tempest at sea is sometimes
so violent as to still the waves. So when I came to make my rejoinder, I answered only such
portions of his speech as attempted argument, and made no allusion to the personal language
he had used towards me. But as soon as the vote was had on the question of postponing the impeachment,
I took measures to call him to account. For this purpose I applied to Mr. Samuel A. Merritt,
a member from Mariposa County, to carry a note from me to him, calling upon him to apologize
for his offensive conduct or give me the satisfaction which it was understood one gentleman
had the right to demand from another.

At that time it was generally supposed that the constitutional provision in regard to duelling
was self-operative, and that any person who either sent or accepted a challenge, or acted as
a second to one who thus offended, would ipso facto be disqualified from afterwards holding
any public office. Upon this understanding of the law, Mr. Merritt, with many expressions of
regard for me and regret at the law, declined to carry the note. I then applied to Mr. Richardson,
also a member, but he declined for the same reason. I was afraid, as matters stood, that I
could not get anybody to act for me, and I did not know to whom to apply or what to do. Whilst
thinking the matter over, I happened, about nine o'clock in the evening, to walk into the Senate
Chamber, and there found Mr. David C. Broderick, afterwards United States Senator, sitting
at his desk writing. He was at that time President pro tem. of the Senate. I had known him
for some time, but not intimately; we were merely bowing acquaintances. As I entered he looked
up and said, "Why, Judge, you don't look well, what is the matter?" I answered that I did not
feel well, for I had not a friend in the world. He replied, "What is it that worries you?"
I then related to him everything that had happened, giving the particulars of the gross and
violent assault upon my character, and stated that I was determined, at all hazards, to call
Moore to account. Mr. Broderick, without hesitation, said, "My dear Field, I will be your friend
in this matter; go and write at once a note to Moore, and I will deliver it myself." I accordingly
sat down at an adjoining desk and wrote him a note, the purport of which was that I required
him either to make a public retraction of his insulting language in the Legislature, or to
give me the satisfaction I had a right to demand. Broderick approved of its terms and at once
proceeded to deliver it.

When he called on Moore and presented it, the latter said he expected to be a candidate for
Congress before the coming convention, and he could not accept a challenge because it would
disqualify him under the constitution from holding the office. But at the same time he observed
that he was willing to meet me at any time and place; in other words, that he had no objection
to a street fight. Broderick replied that a street fight was not exactly the thing among gentlemen;
but that if Moore would do no better, a street fight there should be; and thereupon named a
time and place when and where I would be found the next morning.

Within an hour afterwards Moore changed his mind, and informed Mr. Broderick that Drury Baldwin,
another member of the House, would act as his friend, and give a reply to my note the next morning.

In anticipation of a possible collision, Mr. Broderick took me out early the following morning
to try my skill in the use of a pistol. I tried a navy revolver and succeeded in hitting a
knot on a tree, at a distance of thirty yards, three times out of five. Broderick declared
himself satisfied, and I then urged upon him the necessity of bringing the matter to a speedy
issue. In all this he concurred, and before the meeting of the House, called upon Baldwin for
an answer to my note. Baldwin replied that his principal had made up his mind to do nothing
further in the matter. "Then," said Broderick, "as soon as the House meets, Judge Field will
arise in his seat and refer to the attack on him and to the language of Moore, that he held
himself responsible for what he said, and state that respect for the dignity of the House had
prevented him from replying to the attack at the time in the terms it deserved; that he had
since demanded satisfaction of Moore for his language, and that Moore had refused to respond,
and will thereupon pronounce him a liar and a coward." "Then," said Baldwin, "Judge Field will
get shot in his seat." "In that case," rejoined Broderick, "there will be others shot too."
Mr. Broderick soon afterwards informed me of his conversation with Baldwin, and asked me if
I would act as he had stated I would. "Most certainly," I replied; "never fear for me; I will
meet the case as it should be met." Accordingly, when the House opened, I took my seat at my
desk as usual. Looking around I saw that Broderick was seated near me, and behind him were
eight or nine of his personal friends, all armed to the teeth and ready for any emergency.
In the meantime, and just before the House met, General John E. Addison, who had found out
what was going on and knew the seriousness of the affair, called on Moore, who was his friend,
and urged him to retract what he had said and make a suitable apology, and for that purpose
drew up a document for him to read to the House, but of this I was not at the time informed.
As soon as the journal was read I rose in my seat and said, "Mr. Speaker." At the same moment
Moore rose in his seat and said, "Mr. Speaker." The Speaker recognized Moore first; and Moore
thereupon proceeded to read the written apology prepared by Addison for his conduct and language
to me. It was full, ample, and satisfactory; and of course with that the matter ended. From
that time forward to the end of the session I had no further trouble with any one.

[1] See Exhibit H, in Appendix.

FRIENDSHIP FOR DAVID C. BRODERICK.

The narrative which I have given of my difficulty with Moore explains how Broderick befriended
me at a very trying time. But that was not the only occasion on which he befriended me. When
I came to San Francisco after the adjournment of the Legislature, in May, 1851, I went several
times to see him at the hotel where he stopped. On one occasion in the evening, while we were
in the saloon of the hotel, he asked me to take a glass of wine with him. We stepped up to
the bar and were about drinking, when he suddenly threw himself before me and with great violence
pushed me out of the room. The proceeding was so sudden and unexpected that I was astonished
and for a moment indignant. I demanded an explanation, saying "What does this mean, Mr. Broderick?"
He then told me that while we were standing at the bar he had noticed Vi.--or to give his full
name, Vicesimus--Turner, a brother of the Judge, a man of desperate character, come into the
bar-room, throw back his Spanish cloak, draw forth a navy revolver, and level it at me. Seeing
the movement, he had thrown himself between me and the desperado and carried me off. These
good offices on the part of Mr. Broderick filled me with a profound sense of gratitude. For
years afterwards I thought and felt as if there was nothing I could do that would be a sufficient
return for his kindness. On his account I took much greater interest in political matters than
I otherwise should. In order to aid him in his aspirations for election to the United States
Senate, upon which he had set his heart, I attended conventions and gave liberally, often to
my great inconvenience, to assist the side to which he belonged. To many persons it was a matter
of surprise that I should take such an interest in his success and through good and evil report
remain so constant and determined in my support of him; but the explanation lies in the circumstances
I have narrated and the brave manner in which he had stood by me in a most critical moment
of my life.

I regret to state that this friendship was ever broken. It was not by me; but broken it was.
Shortly after Mr. Broderick was elected to the Senate, he quarrelled with Mr. Buchanan over
appointments to office in California; and when he returned to the State, he expressed a good
deal of hostility to the Administration. In that hostility I did not participate, and he complained
of me for that reason. I was then spoken of throughout the State as a probable candidate for
the bench, and he announced his opposition to my nomination. I made no complaints of his conduct,
but was much hurt by it. My nomination and election soon afterwards removed me from the sphere
of politics. I seldom met him after my election, and never had any conversation with him. Though
he was offended at my failure to take sides with him in his controversy with the President,
and our intimacy ceased, I could never forget his generous conduct to me; and for his sad death
there was no more sincere mourner in the State.

LEGISLATION SECURED AND BEGINNING A NEW LIFE.

My legislative career was not without good results. I drew, as already stated, and carried
through the Legislature a bill defining the powers and jurisdiction of the courts and judicial
officers of the State; and whilst thus doing good, I also got rid of the ignorant and brutal
judge of our district who had outraged my rights, assaulted my character, and threatened my
life. I also, as I have mentioned, introduced bills regulating the procedure in civil and criminal
cases, remodelled with many changes from the Codes of Civil and Criminal Procedure reported
by the Commissioners of New York; and secured their passage.

In the Civil Practice Act I incorporated provisions making the most liberal exemptions from
forced sale of the personal property of a debtor, including not merely a limited amount of
household furniture, and provisions sufficient for individual or family use for one month,
but also the instruments or tools by which he earned his livelihood. The exemptions embraced
necessary household and kitchen furniture, wearing apparel, beds and bedding of the debtor,
whatever his calling; and also the farming utensils and implements of husbandry of the farmer,
two beasts of burden employed by him, and one cart or wagon; the tools and implements of a
mechanic or artisan necessary to carry on his trade; the instruments and chests of a surgeon,
physician, surveyor, and dentist; the law libraries of an attorney and counsellor; the cabin
or dwelling of a miner, and his pick, rocker, wheelbarrow, and other implements necessary to
carry on mining operations; two oxen, two horses or two mules and their harness, and one cart
or wagon of the cartman, hackman, or teamster; and one horse with vehicle and harness and other
equipments used by a physician, surgeon, or minister of the gospel in making his professional
visits; and all arms and accoutrements required by law to be kept by any person.

I never could appreciate the wisdom of that legislation which would allow a poor debtor to
be stripped of all needed articles of his household and of the implements by which alone he
could earn the means of supporting himself and family and of ultimately discharging his obligations.
It has always seemed to me that an exemption from forced sale of a limited amount of household
and kitchen furniture of the debtor, and of the implements used in his trade or profession,
was not only the dictate of humanity, but of sound policy.

I also incorporated a provision into the Civil Practice Act respecting suits for mining claims,
which was the foundation of the jurisprudence respecting mines in the country. The provision
was that in actions before magistrates for such claims, evidence should be admitted of the
usages, regulations, and customs prevailing in the vicinity, and that such usages, regulations,
and customs, when not in conflict with the constitution and laws of the State, or of the United
States, should govern the decision of the action. At this time suits for mining claims, the
mines being confessedly on the property of the United States, were brought upon an alleged
forcible or unlawful detainer. This rule, thus for the first time adopted by legislative enactment,
was soon extended to actions for such claims in all courts, and has since been adopted in all
the States and Territories west of the Rocky Mountains and substantially by the legislation
of Congress. Simple as the provision is, it solved a difficult problem.

I also advocated and aided the passage of the Homestead Exemption Bill. That bill was introduced
by Mr. G.D. Hall, a member from El Dorado, and now a resident of San Francisco. It provided
for an exemption of the homestead to the value of $5,000. An effort was made to reduce the
amount to $3,000, and I think I rendered some aid in defeating this reduction, which has always
been to me a source of great gratification.

I also secured the passage of an act concerning attorneys and counsellors-at-law, in which
I incorporated provisions that rendered it impossible for any judge to disbar an attorney in
the arbitrary manner in which Judge Turner had acted towards me, without notice of the charges
against him and affording him an opportunity to be heard upon them.

I also introduced a bill creating the counties of Nevada and Klamath, the provisions of which
were afterwards incorporated into a general bill which was passed, dividing the State into
counties and establishing the seats of justice therein, and by which also the county of Placer
was created.

I drafted and secured the passage of an act concerning county sheriffs, in which the duties
and responsibilities of those officers, not only in the execution of process and the detention
of prisoners, but as keepers of the county jail, were declared and defined; also an act concerning
county recorders, in which the present system of keeping records was adopted. This latter act,
though drawn by me, was introduced by Mr. Merritt, of Mariposa, but he does not hesitate to
speak publicly of my authorship of it. I also prepared a bill concerning divorces, which was
reported from the Judiciary Committee as a substitute for the one presented by Mr. Carr, of
San Francisco, and was passed. In this act, aside from the ordinary causes of adultery, and
consent obtained by force or fraud, for which divorces are granted, I made extreme cruelty
and habitual intemperance, wilful desertion of either husband or wife for a period of two years,
and wilful neglect of the husband to provide for the wife the common necessaries of life, having
the ability to provide the same, for a period of three years, also causes of divorce. I also
drew the charters of the cities of Marysville, Nevada, and Monterey, which were adopted--that
of Monterey being reported by the Judiciary Committee as a substitute for one introduced by
a member from that district. Other bills drawn or supported by me were passed, the provisions
of which are still retained in the laws of the State.

But notwithstanding all this, when I turned my face towards Marysville I was, in a pecuniary
sense, ruined. I had barely the means to pay my passage home. My ventures, after my expulsion
from the bar, in June, 1850, had proved so many maelstroms into which the investments were
not only drawn but swallowed up. My affairs had got to such a pass that before I left Marysville
for the Legislature I felt it to be my duty to transfer all my real property to trustees to
pay my debts, and I did so. And now when I stepped upon the landing in Marysville my whole
available means consisted of eighteen and three-quarter cents, and I owed about eighteen thousand
dollars, the whole of which bore interest at the rate of ten per cent. a month. I proceeded
at once to the United States Hotel, kept by a Mr. Peck, who had known me in the days of my
good fortune. "My dear Mr. Peck," I said, "will you trust me for two weeks' board?" "Yes,"
was the reply, "and for as long as you want." "Will you also send for my trunks on the steamer,
for I have not the money to pay the carman." "Certainly," the good man added, and so the trunks
were brought up. On the next day I looked around for quarters. I found a small house, thirty
feet by sixteen, for an office, at eighty dollars a month, and took it. It had a small loft
or garret, in which I placed a cot that I had purchased upon credit. Upon this cot I spread
a pair of blankets, and used my valise for a pillow. I secured a chair without a back for a
wash-stand, and with a tin basin, a pail, a piece of soap, a toothbrush, a comb, and a few
towels, I was rigged out. I brought myself each day the water I needed from a well near by.
I had an old pine table and a cane-bottomed sofa, and with these and the bills which had passed
the Legislature, corrected as they became laws, and the statutes of the previous session, I
put out my sign as an attorney and counsellor-at-law, and began the practice of my profession.

Soon afterwards I found my name mentioned as a candidate for the State Senate. The idea of
returning to the Legislature as a Senator pleased me. The people of the county seemed to favor
the suggestion. Accordingly I made a short visit to neighboring precincts, and finding my candidacy
generally approved I went to work to make it successful. At the election of delegates to the
county convention, which was to nominate candidates, a majority was returned in my favor. Several
of them being unable to attend the convention, which was to be held at Downieville, a distance
of about seventy miles from Marysville, sent me their proxies made out in blank to be filled
with the name of any one whom I might designate. To one supposed friend I gave ten proxies,
to another five, and to a third two. When the members met, just previous to the assembling
of the convention, it was generally conceded that I had a majority of the delegates. But I
had a new lesson in manipulation to learn. Just before the opening of the convention my supposed
friend, who had the ten proxies, was approached by the other side, and by promises to give
the office of sheriff to his partner--an office supposed to be worth thirty thousand a year--his
ten votes were secured for my opponent. The one to whom I had given five proxies was promised
for those votes the county judgeship. So when the convention voted, to my astonishment and
that of my friends, fifteen of my proxies were cast for my opponent, Joseph C. McKibbin, afterwards
a member of Congress, who acted so fearlessly when the Kansas question came up. I was accordingly
beaten by two votes.

For the moment I was furious, and hunted up the man who had held my ten proxies, and had been
seduced from my support. When I found him in the room of the convention, I seized him and attempted
to throw him out of the window. I succeeded in getting half his body out, when bystanders pulled
me back and separated us. This was fortunate for both of us; for just underneath the window
there was a well or shaft sunk fifty feet deep. The following morning I left Downieville, returned
to my office and loft at Marysville, and gave my attention to the practice of the law. My business
soon became very large; and, as my expenses were moderate, within two years and a half I paid
off all my indebtedness, amounting with the accumulations of interest to over thirty-eight
thousand dollars. Part of this amount was paid by a surrender of the property mortgaged, or
a sale of that previously assigned, but the greater part came from my earnings. I paid every
creditor but one in full; to each I gave his pound of flesh, I mean his interest, at ten per
cent. a month. I never asked one of them to take less than the stipulated rate. The exceptional
creditor was Mr. Berry, a brother lawyer, who refused to receive more than five per cent. a
month on a note he held for $450. By this time I had become so much interested in my profession
as to have no inclination for office of any kind. On several occasions I was requested by influential
party leaders to accept a nomination for the State Senate, but I refused. I am inclined to
think that I had for some time a more lucrative practice than any lawyer in the State, outside
of San Francisco. No such fees, however, were paid in those days as have been common in mining
cases since the discovery of the silver mines of Nevada and the organization of great corporations
to develop them.

The Bar of Marysville during this period, and afterwards while I remained in that city--which
was until October, 1857--was a small, but a very able body of men. Many of its members have
since attained distinction and held offices of honor and trust. Richard S. Mesick, who settled
there in 1851, became a State Senator, and after his removal to Nevada, a District Judge of
that State. He ranks now among the ablest lawyers of the Coast. Charles H. Bryan, who settled
there the same year, was an eloquent speaker, and in his forensic contests gave great trouble
to his opponent whenever he got at the jury. He was on the Supreme Court of the State for a
short period, under the appointment of Governor Bigler. Jesse O. Goodwin, of whom I have already
spoken, settled in Marysville in 1850. He was a ready speaker, and sometimes rose to genuine
eloquence. He was distinguished in criminal cases. As already stated, he was elected District
Attorney in 1850, and afterwards became County Judge, and is now State Senator. Gabriel N.
Swezy, who settled there in 1850, was learned in his profession, and quick of apprehension.
Few lawyers could equal him in the preparation of a brief. He afterwards at different times
represented the county in the Assembly and the Senate of the State. William Walker, who afterwards
figured so conspicuously in the filibustering expeditions to Nicaragua, and was called by his
followers "the grey-eyed man of destiny," had an office in Marysville in 1851 and '52. He was
a brilliant speaker, and possessed a sharp but not a very profound intellect. He often perplexed
both court and jury with his subtleties, but seldom convinced either. John V. Berry, who came
to Marysville from the mines in 1851, was a fine lawyer, deeply read in the law of adjudged
cases. He died in 1853 from poison given to him in mistake by a druggist. Edward D. Wheeler,
who came there in 1850, and Thomas B. Reardon, who came in 1853, were both men of strong minds.
Mr. Wheeler represented Yuba County at one time in the Senate, and is now the District Judge
of the Nineteenth District, at San Francisco. He is regarded as among the ablest and best of
the State Judges. Mr. Reardon has been a District Judge for some years in the Fourteenth District,
greatly respected by the profession for his ability and learning. Isaac S. Belcher, who came
to Marysville at a later period--in 1855, I believe--was noted for his quiet manners and studious
habits. He has since been District Judge, and has worthily filled a seat on the bench of the
Supreme Court of the State, where he was greatly respected by his associates and members of
the bar. Edward C. Marshall, the brilliant orator, who at one time represented the State in
Congress, had his office in Marysville in 1855 and '56. He occasionally appeared in court,
though he was generally occupied in politics, and in his case, as in nearly all others, the
practice of the law and the occupation of politics did not always move harmoniously together.

Charles E. Filkins, afterwards County Judge; Charles Lindley, afterwards also County Judge
and one of the Code Commissioners; Henry P. Haun, the first County Judge, and afterwards appointed
to the United States Senate by Governor Weller; N.E. Whitesides, afterwards a member of the
Legislature from Yuba, and Speaker of the House; F.L. Hatch, now County Judge of Colusa; George
Howe, afterwards Treasurer of the County; and Wm. S. Belcher, who afterwards rendered good
service to the public as a School Commissioner, also practiced at the Marysville bar with success.

Charles E. DeLong, afterwards a member of the State Senate, and our Minister to Japan, and
Henry K. Mitchell, afterwards a nominee of the Democrats for the U.S. Senate in Nevada, were
just getting a good position at the bar when I left, and gave evidence of the ability which
they afterwards exhibited. Others might be named who held fine positions in the profession.

These mentioned show a bar of great respectability, and I may add that its members were, with
few exceptions, gentlemen of general information and courteous manners. The litigation which
chiefly occupied them and gave the largest remuneration related to mines and mining claims.
The enforcement of mortgages and collection of debts was generally--by me, at least--entrusted
to clerks, unless a contest was made upon them.

There was one case which I recall with pleasure, because of the result obtained in face of
unconcealed bribery on the other side. The subject of the suit was the right to a "placer"
mine in Yuba River, at Park's Bar. Its value may be estimated from the fact that within two
or three weeks after the decision of the case, the owners took from the mine over ninety thousand
dollars in gold dust. The suit was brought before a justice of the peace, and was for an alleged
forcible entry and detainer, a form of action generally adopted at the time for the recovery
of mining claims, because the title to the lands in which the mines were found was in the United
States. It was prosecuted as a purely possessory action. The constable whose duty it was to
summon the jurors had received the sum of two hundred dollars to summon certain parties, named
by the other side. This fact was established beyond controversy by evidence placed in my hands.
And whilst I was in bed in one of the tents or canvas sheds at the Bar, which the people occupied
in the absence of more substantial buildings, I heard a conversation in the adjoining room--I
could not help hearing it, as it was carried on without any attempt at concealment, and the
room was only separated from me by the canvas--between one of the jurors and one of the opposite
party, in which the juror assured the party that it was "all right," and he need not worry
as to the result of the suit; his side would have the verdict; the jury were all that way.
On the next day, when the case was summed up, the saloon in which the trial was had was crowded
with spectators, most of whom were partisans of the other side. I addressed the jury for over
three hours, and after having commented upon the evidence at length and shown conclusively,
as I thought, that my client was entitled to a verdict, I said substantially as follows: "Gentlemen,
we have not endeavored to influence your judgment except by the evidence; we have not approached
you secretly and tried to control your verdict; we have relied solely upon the law and the
evidence to maintain our rights to this property. But the other side have not thus acted; they
have not been content that you should weigh only the evidence; they have endeavored to corrupt
your minds and pervert your judgments; they have said that you were so low and debased that
although you had with uplifted hands declared that so might the ever-living God help you, as
you rendered a verdict according to the evidence, you were willing, to please them, to decide
against the evidence, and let perjury rest on your souls. I know that you [pointing to one
of the jurors] have been approached. Did you spurn the wretch away who made a corrupt proposal
to you, or did you hold counsel, sweet counsel with him? I know that you [pointing to another
juror] talked over this case with one of the other side at the house on the hill last night,
for I overheard the conversation--the promise made to you and your pledge to him. In the canvas
houses here all rooms are as one; the words uttered in one are voices in all. You did not dream
that any but you two were in the tent; but I was there and overheard the foul bargain."

At this thrust there was great excitement, and click, click, was heard all through the room,
which showed a general cocking of pistols; for every one in those days went armed. I continued:
"There is no terror in your pistols, gentlemen; you will not win your case by shooting me;
you can win it only in one way--by evidence showing title to the property; you will never win
it by bribery or threats of violence. I charge openly attempted bribery, and if what I say
be not true, let the jurors speak out now from their seats. Attempted bribery, I say--whether
it will be successful bribery, will depend upon what may occur hereafter. If, after invoking
the vengeance of Heaven upon their souls should they not render a verdict according to the
evidence, the jurors are willing to sell their souls, let them decide against us."

This home-thrust produced a great sensation. It was evident that the jury were disturbed. When
the case was submitted to them, they were absent only a few minutes. They returned a verdict
in our favor. Some of them afterwards came to me and admitted that they had been corruptly
approached, but added that they were not low enough to be influenced in their verdict in that
way. "Of course not," I replied; though I had little doubt that it was only the fear of exposure
which forced them to do right.

I have said that in those days everyone went armed; it would be more correct to say that this
was true in the mining regions of the State and when travelling. I, myself, carried a Derringer
pistol and a Bowie-knife until the Summer of 1854, though of course out of sight. I did so
by the advice of Judge Mott, of the District Court, who remarked that, though I never abused
a witness or a juror, or was discourteous to any one in court, there were desperate men in
the country, and no one could know to what extremity they might go, as I would not be deterred
by any considerations from the discharge of my whole duty to my clients. So, until the Summer
of 1854, I carried weapons. And yet they were not such provocatives of difficulty as some of
our Eastern friends are accustomed to think. On the contrary, I found that a knowledge that
they were worn generally created a wholesome courtesy of manner and language.

I continued to occupy my small office and slept in its loft through the Summer and Fall of
1851, and felt quite contented with them. Twice I was summarily dislodged, being threatened
by a fire on the other side of the street. On one occasion a most ludicrous incident occurred,
which I cannot recall without a smile. A little after midnight we were aroused, on the occasion
referred to, by a loud thumping at our door, accompanied by a cry of "fire." My loft was shared
with three others, and at the cry we all leaped from our cots and two of our number seizing
whatever was convenient and portable carried it out of the house to a distance of about one
hundred yards, where gathered a multitude of people, fleeing before the flames with all sorts
of baggage, trunks, chairs, beds, and utensils of every kind which they had brought from their
houses. I hastily threw the papers of sundry suits and a dozen law books, recently purchased,
into a box, and with the assistance of the other occupant of my loft, carried it off. Just
as we reached the crowd, a pair of young grizzly bears which the owner had kept in a cage near
by were let loose, and they came towards us growling in their peculiar way. At their sight,
there was a general stampede of men, women, and children, in all directions. Boxes and everything
else portable were instantly dropped, and such an indiscriminate flight was never before seen
except from a panic in battle.

THE BARBOUR DIFFICULTY.

When the bill of 1851, dividing the State into new judicial districts, became a law, there
were several candidates for the office of Judge of the Tenth Judicial District, which comprised
the counties of Yuba, Nevada, and Sutter. Henry P. Haun, the County Judge of Yuba, was one
candidate; John V. Berry, a lawyer of the same county was another; and Gordon N. Mott, a lawyer
of Sutter County, was a third. My first choice was Berry; but, finding that he had very little
chance, I gave what influence I had in favor of Mr. Mott, and he received from the Governor
the appointment of Judge of the new district.

In the Summer of 1851, the Governor issued his proclamation for the Fall elections, and, among
others, for an election to fill the office of Judge of the Tenth District. I had supposed--and
there were many others who agreed with me--that Judge Mott's term under his appointment would
continue until the election of 1852. But there being some doubts about the matter and the Governor
having issued his proclamation for an election, candidates were nominated by the conventions;
and at the ensuing election one of them, William T. Barbour, a lawyer of Nevada County, received
a majority of the votes cast and was declared elected. When he came, however, to demand the
office, Judge Mott expressed his opinion that there had been no vacancy to be filled and declined
to surrender. This led to a suit between them. The question involved being exclusively one
of law, an agreed case was made up and presented to the Supreme Court, and that tribunal decided
in favor of Barbour. A report of the case is given in the 3d California Reports, under the
title of People, ex rel. Barbour, vs. Mott.

In the case I appeared as counsel for Judge Mott and argued his cause. This offended Judge
Barbour, and he gave free expression to his displeasure. Afterwards, when his term for the
vacancy was about to expire and a new election was to be held, he presented himself as a candidate
for a second term. It was my opinion that he was not qualified for the position, and I therefore
recommended my friends to vote for his opponent. For some weeks previous to the election I
was absent from the district; but I returned two days before it was to take place and at once
took a decided part against Barbour and did all I could to defeat him. This action on my part,
in connection with my previous zeal in behalf of Judge Mott, led Barbour to make some very
bitterly vituperative remarks about me, which being reported to me, I called on him for an
explanation. Some harsh words passed between us at the interview. The result was that Barbour
refused to make any explanation, but gave me a verbal challenge to settle our difficulties
in the usual way among gentlemen. I instantly accepted it and designated Judge Mott as my friend.

In half an hour afterwards Judge Mott was called upon by Mr. Charles S. Fairfax as the friend
of Barbour, who stated that Barbour had been challenged by me, and that his object in calling
upon Mott was to arrange the terms of a hostile meeting. Mott answered that he understood the
matter somewhat differently; that the challenge, as he had been informed, came from Barbour,
and that I, instead of being the challenging, was the accepting party. Fairfax, however, insisted
upon his version of the affair; and upon consulting with Mott, I waived the point and accepted
the position assigned me. Fairfax then stated that Barbour, being the challenged party, had
the right to choose the weapons and the time and place of meeting; to all of which Mott assented.
Fairfax then said that, upon consultation with his principal, he had fixed the time for that
evening; the place, a room twenty feet square, describing it; the weapons, Colt's revolvers
and Bowie-knives; that the two principals so armed were to be placed at opposite sides of the
room with their faces to the wall; that they were to turn and fire at the word, then advance
and finish the conflict with their knives. Mott answered that the terms were unusual, unprecedented,
and barbarous, and that he could not consent to them. Fairfax admitted that they were so; but
replied that they were those Barbour had prescribed. He would, however, see Barbour and endeavor
to obtain a modification of them. Soon afterwards he reported that Barbour still insisted upon
the terms first named and would not agree to any other.

When Mott reported the result of his conference with Fairfax, I at once said that Barbour was
a coward and would not fight at all. I knew perfectly well that such terms could come only
from a bully. I saw that it was a game of bluff he was playing. So I told Mott to accept them
by all means. Mott accordingly called on Fairfax and accepted the terms as proposed, and gave
notice that I would be on hand and ready at the time and place designated. This being reported
to Barbour, Fairfax soon afterwards made his appearance with a message that his principal would
waive the Bowie-knives; and not long afterwards he came a second time with another message
that it would not do to have the fight in the room designated, because the firing would be
heard outside and attract a crowd. In accordance with my instructions, Mott assented to all
the modifications proposed, and it was finally agreed that the meeting should take place the
next morning in Sutter County. I was to take a private conveyance, and Barbour was to take
one of the two daily stages that ran to Sacramento. At a specified place we were to leave our
conveyances and walk to a retired spot, which was designated, where the hostile meeting was
to take place.

The next morning, accordingly, I took a carriage, and with my friend Judge Mott drove down
to the appointed place. After we had been there some time the first stage appeared and stopped.
Soon after the second stage appeared and stopped, and Judge Barbour and Mr. Fairfax got out.
But instead of proceeding to the designated place, Barbour declared that he was a judicial
officer, and as such could not engage in a duel. At the same time he would take occasion to
say that he would protect himself, and, if assaulted, would kill the assailant. With these
words, leaving Fairfax standing where he was, he walked over to the first stage, and mounting
rode on to Sacramento. Seeing Fairfax standing alone on the ground I sent word to him that
I would be happy to give him a place in my carriage--an invitation which he accepted, and we
then drove to Nicolaus, where we breakfasted, and thence returned to Marysville.[1]

The conduct of Barbour on the ground, after his fierce and savage terms at the outset, produced
a great deal of merriment and derision; and some very sharp squibs appeared in the newspapers.
One of them gave him great annoyance, and he inquired for its author. I told the editor of
the paper in which it appeared that if it was necessary to protect the writer, to give my name,
although I did not write it, or know beforehand that it was to be written.

On the following morning, whilst in front of my office gathering up kindling-wood for a fire,
and having my arms full--for each man was his own servant in those days--Barbour came up and,
placing a cocked navy revolver near my head, cried out, "Draw and defend yourself." As I had
not observed his approach I was taken by surprise, but turning on him I said, "You infernal
scoundrel, you cowardly assassin--you come behind my back and put your revolver to my head
and tell me to draw; you haven't the courage to shoot; shoot and be damned." There were at
least ten witnesses of this scene; and it was naturally supposed that having advanced so far
he would go farther; but as soon as he found I was not frightened, he turned away and left
me. It is impossible to express the contempt I felt for him at that moment for his dastardly
conduct, a feeling which the spectators shared with me, as they have since often stated.[2]

I do not give these details as having any importance in themselves; but they illustrate the
semi-barbarous condition of things in those early days, and by comparison show out of what
our existing condition has been evolved, and how far we have advanced. I give them also for
the reason that Barbour afterwards wrote a letter to Turner, which the latter published, referring
to the affair, in which he boasted of having given me a "whipping." How far his boast was warranted
the above facts show.

For a long time afterwards he expressed his bitterness towards me in every possible way. He
did not take Turner's plan of expelling me from the bar; but he manifested his feelings by
adverse rulings. In such cases, however, I generally took an appeal to the Supreme Court, and
in nearly all of them procured a reversal. The result was that he suddenly changed his conduct
and commenced ruling the other way. While this was his policy, there was hardly any position
I could take in which he did not rule in my favor. At last I became alarmed lest I should lose
my cases in the appellate court by winning them before him.

About a year afterwards he sent one of his friends to ask me if I was willing to meet him half-way--stating
that my conduct in court had always been courteous, and he was satisfied that he had done me
injustice. I answered that I was always willing to meet any one half-way, but in this case
it must be without explanations for the past. This condition was accepted; accordingly we met,
and taking a glass of wine, I said, "Here is to an act of oblivion, but no explanations." For
a long time no allusion was made by either to the old difficulties. But at last he insisted
upon telling me how tales had been brought to him, and how they exasperated him; and he expressed
great regret for what had taken place; and to make amends, as far as he was able, for what
he had written about me, he sent me the following letter:

    "MARYSVILLE, Dec. 22, 1856.
    "Hon. S.J. FIELD.

    "DEAR SIR: On yesterday I learned through our mutual friend
    Charles S. Fairfax, Esq., that Judge W.R. Turner has recently
    issued a publication which contains a letter of mine, written
    him some four years ago. I have not been able to procure a
    copy of this publication, and I have entirely forgotten the
    language used; in truth I do not remember to have written him
    on the subject of yourself or otherwise; but I suppose I must
    have done so, and have given expressions of opinion that I
    have long since ceased to entertain, and to invectives that I
    have no disposition to justify. You will recall that, at the
    time referred to, there unfortunately existed between us
    feelings of deep hostility; and I may at the time have used
    harsh terms indicative of my then feelings, which I regret and
    do not now approve, if they are as represented by others."

    "Judge Turner has taken an unwarranted liberty in publishing
    the letter, be it of what character it may. He never requested
    my permission for this purpose, nor did I know that it was his
    intention."

    "Trusting that this explanation may be satisfactory, I
    remain,"

    "Very respectfully yr. obt. servant,"
    "WM. T. BARBOUR."

He ever afterwards, as occasion offered, spoke of me in the highest terms as a gentleman and
lawyer. My resentment accordingly died out, but I never could feel any great regard for him.
He possessed a fair mind and a kindly disposition, but he was vacillating and indolent. Moreover,
he loved drink and low company. He served out his second term and afterwards went to Nevada,
where his habits became worse, and he sunk so low as to borrow of his acquaintances from day
to day small sums--one or two dollars at a time--to get his food and lodging. He died from
the effects of his habits of intemperance.

In stating the result of the intended hostile meeting with him, I mentioned that when he proceeded
on his way to Sacramento, he left his second, Mr. Fairfax, standing alone on the ground, and
that I invited the latter to take a seat in my carriage. From this time the intercourse between
Mr. Fairfax and myself became more frequent than it had been previously, and a friendship followed
which continued as long as he lived. He was not sparing in his censure of the conduct of his
principal, whilst his language was complimentary of mine. In a few months I became quite intimate
with him, and I found him possessed of a noble and chivalric spirit. With great gentleness
of manner, he had the most intrepid courage. His fidelity to his friends and devotion to their
interests attached them strongly to him. He was beloved by all who knew him. No man in the
State was more popular. He represented the county of Yuba in the Legislature two or three times,
and at one session was Speaker of the Assembly. When the land office at Marysville was established
in 1855, he was appointed Register; and in 1856, he was elected Clerk of the Supreme Court
of the State. It was my good fortune to aid him in securing both of these positions. At my
suggestion, Mr. McDougal, a Member of Congress from California, urged the establishment of
the land office, and obtained for him the appointment of Register. In 1856, when he sought
the clerkship of the Supreme Court of the State, I became a delegate from Yuba County to the
State Convention, and made his nomination for that office my special object, and with the aid
of the rest of the delegation, succeeded in obtaining it.

Two or three incidents which I will relate will illustrate the character of the man. It was
either in the session of 1854 or 1855, I forget which, that a petition was presented to the
Assembly of California on the part of some of the colored people of the State, requesting that
the laws then in force, which excluded them from being witnesses in cases where a white person
was a party, might be repealed so as to allow them to testify in such cases. At that time there
was a great deal of feeling throughout the country on the subject of slavery, and any attempt
to legislate in behalf of the colored people was sure to excite opposition, and give rise to
suggestions that its promoter was not sound on the slavery question. The presentation of the
petition accordingly stirred up angry feelings. It created a perfect outburst of indignation,
and some one moved that the petition should be thrown out of the window; and the motion was
passed almost unanimously. If I recollect aright, there was but a single vote in the negative.
I was standing by Mr. Fairfax when he was informed of the proceeding. He at once denounced
it, and said, in energetic terms--"This is all wrong--the petition should have been received.
If my horse or my dog could in any way express its wishes to me I would listen to it. It is
a shame that a petition from any one, black or white, should not be received by the Legislature
of the State, whether it be granted or not." I was greatly impressed at that time with the
manliness of this expression in a community which looked with suspicion on any movement in
favor of extending any rights to the colored race.

On another occasion, some years afterwards, when I was Judge of the Supreme Court of the State
and he was the clerk of the court, there was a good deal of complaint against Harvey Lee, the
reporter of the court, who was appointed to the office by Governor Weller. I believe that Lee
was instrumental, but of this I am not certain, in getting a law passed which took the appointment
of the reporter from the court and gave it to the Governor. He was an inferior lawyer, and,
of course, had very little practice. The appointment, therefore, to which a fair salary was
attached, was eagerly sought by him. His reports, however, were so defective that an effort
was made by the judges to get the law repealed and have the appointment restored to the court.
This led to a bitter feeling on his part towards the judges, and in a conversation with Mr.
Fairfax he gave vent to it in violent language. Mr. Fairfax resented the attack and an altercation
ensued, when Lee, who carried a sword-cane, drew the sword and ran it into Fairfax's body.
Fortunately it entered the chest above the heart. Withdrawing the sword Lee made a second lunge
at Fairfax, which the latter partially avoided so as to receive only a flesh wound in the side.
By this time Fairfax had drawn his pistol and covered the body of Lee, as he was raising his
sword for a third thrust. Lee, seeing the pistol, stepped back and threw up his arms exclaiming,
"I am unarmed"--though he had only that moment withdrawn his sword from the body of Fairfax,
and it was then dripping with blood. "Shoot the damned scoundrel," cried the latter's friend,
Samuel B. Smith, then standing by his side. But Fairfax did not shoot. Looking at Lee, whose
body was covered with his pistol, while the blood was trickling from his own person, he said,
"You are an assassin! you have murdered me! I have you in my power! your life is in my hands!"
And gazing on him, he added, "But for the sake of your poor sick wife and children I will spare
you." He thereupon uncocked his pistol and handed it to his friend, into whose arms he fell
fainting. He had known the wife of Lee when a young girl; and, afterwards, in speaking of the
affair to a friend, he said, "I thought my wife would be a widow before sundown, and I did
not wish to leave the world making another." All California rang with the story of this heroic
act. It has its parallel only in the self-abnegation of the dying hero on the battle-field,
who put away from his parched lips the cup of water tendered to him, and directed that it be
given to a wounded soldier suffering in agony by his side, saying, "His need is greater than mine."

During the war his sympathies, as was the case with most Southerners in California, were with
his people in Virginia. He told me on one occasion that he could not but wish they would succeed;
but, he said; "Though I am a Virginian by birth, I have adopted California, and whilst I live
in a State which has taken her stand with the Northern people, I cannot in honor do anything,
and I will not, to weaken her attachment to the Union. If my health were good I should leave
the State and return to Virginia and give my services to her; but, as that is impossible, I
shall remain in California, and, whilst here, will not be false to her by anything I do or say."

These incidents, better than any elaborate description, illustrate the character of the man.
He was a lineal descendant of the great Fairfax family which has figured so conspicuously in
the history of England and of Virginia. He was its tenth Baron in a direct line. But notwithstanding
the rank of his family he was a republican in his convictions. He loved his country and its
institutions. He was himself more noble than his title. He came East to attend the National
Democratic Convention in 1868 at the head of the delegates from California. After the Convention,
he spent some months among his friends and relatives at the old family residence in Maryland.
At this time the seeds of consumption, which had long been lurking in his system, began to
be developed, and he was taken down with a severe illness which proved fatal. He became so
ill as to be unable to walk, and was conveyed to Baltimore to procure the best medical attendance;
and there he died on the 4th of April, 1869, in the arms of his devoted wife, who had come
from California to be with him in his last hours. His body was brought to Washington and interred
within sight of the Capitol, near Hock Creek Church, in which his ancestors had worshipped.

I have mentioned that when Fairfax was stabbed by Lee he fell into the arms of Mr. Samuel B.
Smith. This gentleman I had known slightly before my difficulty with Judge Barbour; but the
intimacy which sprung up between Fairfax and myself, after that affair, brought me more in
contact with Mr. Smith, who was his constant companion. Mr. Smith came to California from New
Jersey in 1849, and passed through some stirring scenes during that and the following year.
He came with Mr. John S. Hagar, who was afterwards State Senator, District Judge, and United
States Senator, and was engaged with him in the mines in the winter of 1849-'50. In 1850 he
settled in Sutter County; and in the fall of 1852 was elected State Senator from that county.
Having become more intimately acquainted with him after he was elected Senator, I requested
him to introduce a bill into the Legislature, revising and amending the one which I had originally
drawn concerning the courts and judicial officers of the State; and he cheerfully consented
to do so, and took great interest in securing its passage. Indeed, it was through his influence
that the bill became a law. Many circumstances threw us together after that, and I learned
to appreciate his manly character, his generous disposition, and his great devotion to his
friends. Finally, in the fall of 1854, we agreed to form a partnership after my return from
the Eastern States, which I then proposed to visit. After the Barbour affair the course of
my professional life was much the same as that of any other lawyer. My business was large and
I gave to it my unremitting attention. In 1854 I determined to go East to see my parents and
brothers and sisters, who had never been out of my mind a single day since I left them in 1849.
Accordingly, I went East, and after passing a few months with them I returned to California
in January, 1855. After that I continued to practice my profession, with Mr. Smith as my partner,
until the spring of 1857, though during this period he went to Washington as Commissioner of
the State to obtain from Congress the payment of moneys expended by her in suppressing the
hostilities of Indians within her borders, and was absent several months. In April of that
year we dissolved our partnership. A few months afterwards I was nominated for the bench of
the Supreme Court of the State, and was elected by a large majority. There were two candidates
besides myself for the position, and 93,000 votes were polled. Of these I received a majority
of 36,000 over each of my opponents, and 17,000 over them both together.[3] The term to which
I was elected was for six years, commencing January 1st, 1858. In September, 1857, Hugh C.
Murray, then Chief Justice, died, and Associate Justice Peter H. Burnett was appointed to fill
the vacancy. This left the balance of Judge Burnett's term of service to be filled, and I was
urged by the Governor of the State to accept his appointment to it, as it was for less than
three months, and immediately preceded my own term. At first I refused, as I desired to revisit
the East; but being assured by the judges that taking the place need not prevent my intended
visit, I accepted the appointment, and on the 13th of October, 1857, took my seat on the bench.

[1] See Letter of Judge Mott detailing the particulars of the
    affair; Exhibit H, in Appendix.

[2] See Exhibit I, in Appendix.

The day following my acceptance of the Governor's appointment to the Supreme Court of the State,
I returned to Marysville to close my business before taking up my residence in Sacramento,
where the court held its sessions. I had gone to Sacramento to argue some cases before the
court when the appointment was tendered to me; and, of course, did not expect to remain there
very long. In a few days I arranged my affairs at Marysville and then removed permanently to
Sacramento. I left Marysville with many regrets. I had seen it grow from a collection of tents
with a few hundred occupants to a town of substantial buildings with a population of from eight
to ten thousand inhabitants. From a mere landing for steamers it had become one of the most
important places for business in the interior of the State. When I left, it was a depot of
merchandise for the country lying north and east of it; and its streets presented a scene of
bustle and activity. Trains of wagons and animals were constantly leaving it with goods for
the mines. Its merchants were generally prosperous; some of them were wealthy. Its bankers
were men of credit throughout the State. Steamers plied daily between it and Sacramento, and
stages ran to all parts of the country and arrived every hour. Two daily newspapers were published
in it. Schools were opened and fully attended. Churches of different denominations were erected
and filled with worshippers. Institutions of benevolence were founded and supported. A provident
city government and a vigorous police preserved order and peace. Gambling was suppressed or
carried on only in secret. A theatre was built and sustained. A lecture-room was opened and
was always crowded when the topics presented were of public interest. Substantial stores of
brick were put up in the business part of the city; and convenient frame dwellings were constructed
for residences in the outskirts, surrounded with plats filled with trees and flowers. On all
sides were seen evidences of an industrious, prosperous, moral, and happy people, possessing
and enjoying the comforts, pleasures, and luxuries of life. And they were as generous as they
were prosperous. Their hearts and their purses were open to all calls of charity. No one suffering
appealed to them in vain. No one in need was turned away from their doors without having his
necessities relieved. It is many years since I was there, but I have never forgotten and I
shall never forget the noble and generous people that I found there in all the walks of life.

The Supreme Court of the State then consisted of three members, the senior in commission being
the Chief Justice. David S. Terry was the Chief Justice and Peter H. Burnett was the Associate
Justice. Both of these gentlemen have had a conspicuous career in California, and of both I
have many interesting anecdotes which would well illustrate their characters and which at some
future day I may put upon paper. They were both men of vigorous minds, of generous natures
and of positive wills; but in all other respects they differed as widely as it was possible
for two extremes. Mr. Terry had the virtues and prejudices of men of the extreme South in those
days. His contact and larger experience since with men of the North have no doubt modified
many of those prejudices, and his own good sense must have led him to alter some of his previous
judgments. Probably his greatest regret is his duel with Mr. Broderick, as such encounters,
when they terminate fatally to one of the parties, never fail to bring life-long bitterness
to the survivor. A wiser mode of settling difficulties between gentlemen has since been adopted
in the State; but those who have not lived in a community where the duel is practiced cannot
well appreciate the force of the public sentiment which at one time existed, compelling a resort
to it when character was assailed.

Mr. Burnett was one of the early settlers in Oregon, and had held positions of honor and trust
there before settling in California. He came here soon after the discovery of gold, took an
interest in public affairs, and was elected the first Governor of the State, when the constitution
was adopted.

Judge Terry resigned his office in September, 1859, when he determined to send a challenge
to Mr. Broderick, and I succeeded him as Chief Justice; and W.W. Cope, of Amador, was elected
to fill the vacant place on the bench. I was absent from the State at the time, or I should
have exerted all the power I possessed by virtue of my office to put a stop to the duel. I
would have held both of the combatants to keep the peace under bonds of so large an amount
as to have made them hesitate about taking further steps; and in the meantime I should have
set all my energies to work, and called others to my aid, to bring about a reconciliation.
I believe I should have adjusted the difficulty.

Mr. Cope, who filled the vacant place on the bench, possessed a superior mind and a genial
nature. He made an excellent Judge. He studiously examined every case and carefully prepared
his opinions. He remained on the bench until January, 1864, when the new constitutional amendments,
reorganizing the court, went into effect. He is now in practice in San Francisco, and has a
large clientage.

Judge Burnett continued in office until the election of his successor in the fall of 1858.
His successor was Joseph G. Baldwin, a lawyer of distinction and a gentleman of literary reputation.
He was the author of "The Flush Times of Alabama and Mississippi," and of "Party Leaders."
The first is a work full of humor and a great favorite in the section of the country whose
"times" it portrays with such spirit and glee as to excite roars of laughter in the reader.
The latter is a thoughtful history of the character and influence upon the country of Jefferson,
Hamilton, Jackson, Clay, and Randolph. His portraitures present these men in the fullness and
freshness of living beings, whom we see and hear, and whose power we feel.

My friendship for Mr. Baldwin commenced long before he came to the bench, and it afterwards
warmed into the attachment of a brother. He had a great and generous heart; there was no virtue
of humanity of which he did not possess a goodly portion. He was always brimful of humor, throwing
off his jokes, which sparkled without burning, like the flashes of a rocket. There was no sting
in his wit. You felt as full of merriment at one of his witticisms, made at your expense, as
when it was played upon another. Yet he was a profound lawyer, and some of his opinions are
models of style and reasoning. He remained on the bench until January, 1862, when he was succeeded
by Edward Norton, of San Francisco. This gentleman was the exemplar of a judge of a subordinate
court. He was learned, patient, industrious, and conscientious; but he was not adapted for
an appellate tribunal. He had no confidence in his own unaided judgment. He wanted some one
upon whom to lean. Oftentimes he would show me the decision of a tribunal of no reputation
with apparent delight, if it corresponded with his own views, or with a shrug of painful doubt,
if it conflicted with them. He would look at me in amazement if I told him that the decision
was not worth a fig; and would appear utterly bewildered at my waywardness when, as was sometimes
the case, I refused to look at it after hearing by what court it was pronounced.

It is not my purpose to speak of my own career on the Bench of the Supreme Court of California.
It is only for reminiscences of my previous life that you, Mr. Hittell, have asked.[1] I am
tempted, however, to hand to you a letter of Judge Baldwin, my associate for over three years,
in which he presents, in terms exaggerated by his friendship, the result of my labors there.[2]

There is only one scene to which I wish to refer.

About a year and a half after I went upon the bench, a contested election case came up from
Trinity County. It appeared that Judge Turner, who had been sent to the district composed of
the counties of Trinity and Klamath, by the act concerning the courts and judicial officers
of the State, at the end of his term offered himself for re-election as Judge of that district.
When the vote was counted there appeared to be a majority of one against him, and his opponent
was declared elected. He instituted a contest for the office, and, being defeated in the court
below, appealed to the Supreme Court. He then became very much exercised over his appeal, because
I was one of the Justices. There were not wanting persons who, out of sheer malice, or not
comprehending any higher motives of conduct than such as governed themselves, represented that
I would improve the opportunity to strike him a blow.

When his case came on for hearing, I left the bench to my associates, Judges Terry and Baldwin,
and they decided in his favor. At this action of mine Turner was amazed. It was something wholly
unexpected and surprising to him. Soon after the decision he sent one of his friends, named
Snowden, to know if I would speak to him if he should make the first advance. I answered that
under no circumstances would I ever consent to speak to him; that he had done me injuries which
rendered any intercourse with him impossible; that the world was wide enough for us both, and
he must go his own way. This answer Snowden communicated to him. The next morning he stationed
himself at the foot of the stairway leading up to the Supreme Court rooms, which was on the
outside of the building, and, as I passed up, he cried out; "I am now at peace with all the
world; if there is any man who feels that I have done him an injury, I am ready to make him
amends." I turned and looked at him for a moment, and then passed on without saying a word.
On the following morning he took the same position and repeated substantially the same language.
I stopped and gazed at him for a moment, and then passed on in silence. This was the last time
I saw him. He returned to Trinity, and held his office for the balance of his term, six years,
under the decision of the Supreme Court, and was re-elected in 1863. But his character and
habits unfitted him for a judicial position. He was addicted to gambling and drinking, and
he consorted with the lowest characters; and the same tyrannical temper and conduct which he
had exhibited towards me in Marysville, were displayed in his new district. Accordingly measures
were taken by citizens of Trinity to secure his impeachment by the Legislature. Mr. Westmoreland,
a member of the Assembly from that county in 1867 offered a resolution for the appointment
of a committee to inquire whether articles of impeachment should be presented against him for
high crimes and misdemeanors, with power to send for persons and papers and report articles
if warranted by the evidence. In offering the resolution Mr. Westmoreland charged, that during
the time Turner had held the office of District Judge he had been grossly tyrannical; that
he had imprisoned citizens, depriving them of their liberty without process of law; that he
had neglected and refused to perform the duties incumbent upon him by statute; that by a standing
rule he allowed no witness to be called in a case unless he was subpoenaed and in attendance
on the first day of the term; that he had used the power of his position for the furtherance
of his own ends of private hate; that he was an habitual drunkard, with rare intervals of sobriety,
and had upon occasions come into the court-room to sit upon the trial of causes so intoxicated
as to be unable to stand, and had fallen helplessly upon the floor, whence he had been removed
by officers of the court; that upon one occasion, when engaged in a trial, he had in the presence
of jurors, witnesses, and other persons attending the court, deliberately gone out of the court-room
and openly entered a house of ill-fame near by; and that by his disgraceful conduct he had
become a burden upon the people of that district too grievous to be borne. These things Mr.
Westmoreland stated he stood prepared to prove, and he invoked the interposition of the Legislature
to protect the people of the Eighth Judicial District who were suffering from the deportment
and conduct of this officer. The resolution was passed. Finding that articles of impeachment
would be presented against him, Turner resigned his office. After this his habits of drinking
became worse, and he was sent to the Asylum for Inebriates, where he died.

In thinking over my difficulties with Turner at this distant day, there is nothing in my conduct
which I in the least regret. Had I acted differently; had I yielded one inch, I should have
lost my self-respect and been for life an abject slave. There was undoubtedly an unnecessary
severity of language in two or three passages of my answers to his attacks; and some portion
of my answer in court to his order to show cause why I should not be re-expelled from the bar
might better have been omitted. I have since learned that one is never so strong as when he
is calm, and never writes so forcibly as when he uses the simplest language. My justification
in these particulars, if they require any, must be found in the savage ferocity with which
I was assailed, the brutal language applied to my character and conduct, and the constant threats
made of personal violence. Malignity and hate, with threats of assassination, followed me like
a shadow for months. I went always armed for protection against assault. I should have been
less or more than man had I preserved at all times perfect calmness either in my language or
conduct.

In the contest with this man I was cheered by the support of the best men of the State. But
of all of them no one aided me so much, and so freely, as the editor of the Marysville Herald,
Mr. Robert H. Taylor, a gentleman still living, in the full strength of his intellect, and
honored and trusted as a learned member of the legal profession in Nevada. May length of years
and blessings without number attend him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here my narrative of "Personal Experiences" must for the present end. I could have given you,
Mr. Hittell, more interesting matter. I could have given you sketches of Fremont, Halleck,
Gwin, Broderick, Weller, Geary, Sherman, Bigler, McDougal, Bennett, Heydenfeldt, Murray, and
others, with many striking anecdotes illustrative of their characters. They were all remarkable
men, and the history of their lives would be full of interest and instruction. I could have
related the story of the Vigilance Committees of 1851 and 1856, and shown how the men of order
and virtue acquired and maintained ascendency over the irregular and disorderly elements of
society. I could have told you of the gradual development of the industries of the State until
her yearly products have become one of the marvels of the world. I could have described the
wild excitement produced by the supposed discoveries of gold in boundless quantities on Fraser
River; and the later but more substantial movement upon the development of the silver mines
of Nevada. I could have recounted the efforts made in 1860 and 1861 to keep the State in the
Union against the movements of the Secessionists, and the communications had with President
Lincoln by relays of riders over the Plains. I could have described the commencement, progress,
and completion of the Pacific railroad, and the wonderful energy and unfailing resolution of
its constructors. I could have told you stories without number, full of interest, of the Judges
of California, State and Federal, who preceded me on the bench, and of members of the profession;
of Hastings, Bennett, Lyons, Wells, Anderson, Heydenfeldt, and Murray, of the State Supreme
Court; of Hoffman and McAllister of the Federal bench; of Robinson, Crittenden, Randolph, Williams,
Yale, McConnell, Felton, and others of the Bar, now dead, and of some who are at its head,
now living; composing as a whole a bar not exceeded in ability, learning, eloquence, and literary
culture by that of any other State of the Union. But you asked me merely for personal reminiscences,
of occurrences at Marysville and during the days preceding my going there. I will, therefore,
postpone until another occasion a narrative which I think will be more interesting than anything
I have here related.

[1] These sketches were in the main dictated to a short-hand
    writer at the request of Mr. Theodore H. Hittell, of San
    Francisco.

[2] The letter is printed at the end of this narrative at
    page 135.

THE CAREER OF JUDGE FIELD ON THE SUPREME BENCH OF CALIFORNIA, BY JUDGE JOSEPH G. BALDWIN, HIS
ASSOCIATE FOR THREE YEARS.

[From the Sacramento Union, of May 6, 1863.]

    "The resignation by Judge Field of the office of Chief Justice
    of the Supreme Court of California, to take effect on the 20th
    instant, has been announced. By this event the State has
    been deprived of the ablest jurist who ever presided over her
    courts. Judge Field came to California from New York in
    1849, and settled in Marysville. He immediately commenced the
    practice of law and rose at once to a high position at the
    local bar, and upon the organization of the Supreme Court soon
    commanded a place in the first class of the counsel practicing
    in that forum. For many years, and until his promotion to
    the bench, his practice was as extensive, and probably as
    remunerative, as that of any lawyer in the State. He served
    one or two sessions in the Legislature, and the State is
    indebted to him for very many of the laws which constitute the
    body of her legislation.[1] In 1857 he was nominated for Judge
    of the Supreme Court for a full term, and in October of
    the same year was appointed by Governor Johnson to fill
    the unexpired term of Justice Heydenfeldt, resigned. He
    immediately entered upon the office, and has continued ever
    since to discharge its duties. Recently, as the reader knows,
    he was appointed, by the unanimous request of our delegation
    in Congress, to a seat upon the Bench of the Supreme Court of
    the United States, and was confirmed, without opposition, by
    the Senate.

    "Like most men who have risen to distinction in the United
    States, Judge Field commenced his career without the
    advantages of wealth, and he prosecuted it without the
    factitious aids of family influence or patronage. He had the
    advantage, however--which served him better than wealth or
    family influence--of an accomplished education, and careful
    study and mental discipline. He brought to the practice of
    his profession a mind stored with professional learning,
    and embellished with rare scholarly attainments. He was
    distinguished at the bar for his fidelity to his clients, for
    untiring industry, great care and accuracy in the preparation
    of his cases, uncommon legal acumen, and extraordinary
    solidity of judgment. As an adviser, no man had more the
    confidence of his clients, for he trusted nothing to chance
    or accident when certainty could be attained, and felt his
    way cautiously to his conclusions, which, once reached, rested
    upon sure foundations, and to which he clung with remarkable
    pertinacity. Judges soon learned to repose confidence in his
    opinions, and he always gave them the strongest proofs of the
    weight justly due to his conclusions.

    "When he came to the bench, from various unavoidable causes
    the calendar was crowded with cases involving immense
    interests, the most important questions, and various and
    peculiar litigation. California was then, as now, in the
    development of her multiform physical resources. The judges
    were as much pioneers of law as the people of settlement.
    To be sure something had been done, but much had yet to be
    accomplished; and something, too, had to be undone of that
    which had been done in the feverish and anomalous period that
    had preceded. It is safe to say that, even in the experience
    of new countries hastily settled by heterogeneous crowds of
    strangers from all countries, no such example of legal or
    judicial difficulties was ever before presented as has been
    illustrated in the history of California. There was no general
    or common source of jurisprudence. Law was to be administered
    almost without a standard. There was the civil law, as
    adulterated or modified by Mexican provincialism, usages, and
    habitudes, for a great part of the litigation; and there was
    the common law for another part, but what that was was to be
    decided from the conflicting decisions of any number of
    courts in America and England, and the various and diverse
    considerations of policy arising from local and other facts.
    And then, contracts made elsewhere, and some of them in
    semi-civilized countries, had to be interpreted here. Besides
    all which may be added that large and important interests
    peculiar to the State existed--mines, ditches, etc.--for which
    the courts were compelled to frame the law, and make a system
    out of what was little better than chaos.

    "When, in addition, it is considered that an unprecedented
    number of contracts, and an amount of business without
    parallel, had been made and done in hot haste, with the utmost
    carelessness; that legislation was accomplished in the same
    way, and presented the crudest and most incongruous materials
    for construction; that the whole scheme and organization of
    the government, and the relation of the departments to each
    other, had to be adjusted by judicial construction--it may
    well be conceived what task even the ablest jurist would
    take upon himself when he assumed this office. It is no small
    compliment to say that Judge Field entered upon the duties of
    this great trust with his usual zeal and energy, and that he
    leaves the office not only with greatly increased reputation,
    but that he has raised the character of the jurisprudence
    of the State. He has more than any other man given tone,
    consistency, and system to our judicature, and laid broad and
    deep the foundation of our civil and criminal law. The land
    titles of the State--the most important and permanent of the
    interests of a great commonwealth--have received from his hand
    their permanent protection, and this alone should entitle him
    to the lasting gratitude of the bar and the people.

    "His opinions, whether for their learning, logic, or diction,
    will compare favorably, in the judgment of some of our best
    lawyers, with those of any judge upon the Supreme Bench of the
    Union. It is true what he has accomplished has been done with
    labor; but this is so much more to his praise, for such work
    was not to be hastily done, and it was proper that the
    time spent in perfecting the work should bear some little
    proportion to the time it should last. We know it has been
    said of Judge Field that he is too much of a 'case lawyer,'
    and not sufficiently broad and comprehensive in his views.
    This criticism is not just. It is true he is reverent of
    authority, and likes to be sustained by precedent; but an
    examination of his opinions will show that, so far from
    being a timid copyist, or the passive slave of authority, his
    rulings rest upon clearly defined principles and strong common
    sense.

    "He retires from office without a stain upon his ermine.
    Millions might have been amassed by venality. He retires as
    poor as when he entered, owing nothing and owning little,
    except the title to the respect of good men, which malignant
    mendacity cannot wrest from a public officer who has deserved,
    by a long and useful career, the grateful appreciation of his
    fellow-citizens. We think that we may safely predict that,
    in his new place, Justice Field will fulfill the sanguine
    expectations of his friends."

    J.G.B.

    SAN FRANCISCO, May 1, 1863.

[1] He was in the Legislature only one session.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1855 a circuit court for California was created by Congress, and clothed with the ordinary
jurisdiction of the several circuit courts of the United States. Hon. M. Hall McAllister was
appointed its judge. In January, 1863, he resigned and my appointment as his successor was
recommended by our Senators. They telegraphed me what they had done, and I replied that I could
not accept the place, that I preferred to remain Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
State than to be a judge of an inferior federal court, but that if a new justice were added
to the Supreme Court of the United States, I would accept the office if tendered to me. Notwithstanding
this reply my appointment was urged, and I was nominated by the President. The Senators have
since told me that they pressed my nomination from a belief that another justice would soon
be added to the Supreme Court, and that the appointment would be made from the Pacific States,
and that if I were circuit judge it would more likely be tendered to me than to any one else.
The interests of those States were so great, and from the character of their land titles, and
their mines of gold and silver, were in some respects so different from those of the Eastern
States, that it was deemed important to have some one familiar with them on the Supreme Bench
of the United States. Accordingly, while my nomination for circuit judge was pending before
the Senate, a bill providing for an additional justice of the Supreme Court, and making the
Pacific States a new circuit, was introduced into both Houses of Congress, and on the last
day of the session, March 3d, 1863, it became a law. Soon after the adjournment of Congress,
the entire delegation from the Pacific States united in recommending my appointment to the
new office. The delegation then consisted of four Senators and four Members of the House, of
whom five were Democrats and three Republicans; all of them were Union men. I was accordingly
nominated by the President, and the nomination was unanimously confirmed by the Senate. My
commission was signed on the 10th of March, 1863, and forwarded to me. I did not, however,
take the oath of office and enter upon its duties until the 20th of May following. At the time
I received the commission there were many important cases pending in the Supreme Court of California,
which had been argued when only myself and one of the associate justices were present. I thought
that these cases should be disposed of before I resigned, as otherwise a re-argument of them
would be required, imposing increased expense and delay upon the parties. I therefore sent
my resignation as Chief Justice to the Governor, to take effect on the 20th of May. I selected
that day, as I believed the cases argued could be decided by that time, and because it was
the birthday of my father. I thought it would be gratifying to him to know that on the eighty-second
anniversary of his birth his son had become a Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Accordingly on that day I took the oath of office.[1]

[1] Although I had informed the Attorney-General of my action and
    delay in taking the oath of office, the salary of the office
    was sent to me from the date of my commission, March 10th,
    1863. I immediately deposited with the sub-treasurer at San
    Francisco, to the credit of the United States, the proportion
    for the time between that date and the 20th of May, and
    informed the Secretary of the Treasury of the deposit,
    enclosing to him the sub-treasurer's receipt.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANNOYANCES OF MY JUDICIAL LIFE.

After the narrative of my Personal Reminiscences was completed, I concluded to dictate an account
of some strange annoyances to which I had been subjected in the course of my judicial life.
The account will have an interest to those of my friends for whom the Reminiscences were printed,
and it is intended for their perusal alone.

When I went on the bench, I not only entertained elevated notions of the dignity and importance
of the judicial office, but looked forward confidently to the respect and honor of the community
from a faithful discharge of its duties. I soon discovered, however, that there would be but
little appreciation for conscientious labor on the bench, except from a small number of the
legal profession, until after the lapse of years. For the heavy hours of toil which the judges
endured, for the long examination which they gave to voluminous records, for their nights of
sleeplessness passed in anxious thought to ascertain what was true and right amidst a mass
of conflicting evidence and doubtful principles, the public at large appeared to have little
thought and less consideration. The cry of disappointment over frustrated schemes of cupidity
and fraud was sufficient for the time to drown all other expressions of judgment upon the action
of the court.

The unsettled condition of the land titles of the State gave occasion to a great deal of litigation
and was for a long time the cause of much bad feeling towards the judges who essayed to administer
impartial justice. When California was acquired, the population was small and widely scattered.
To encourage colonization, grants of land in large quantities, varying from one to eleven leagues,
had been made to settlers by the Mexican government. Only small tracts were subjected to cultivation.
The greater part of the land was used for grazing cattle, which were kept in immense herds.
The grants were sometimes of tracts with defined boundaries, and sometimes of places by name,
but more frequently of specified quantities within boundaries embracing a greater amount. By
the Mexican law, it was incumbent upon the magistrates of the vicinage to put the grantees
in possession of the land granted to them; and for that purpose to measure off and segregate
the quantity designated. Owing to the sparseness of the population there was little danger
of dispute as to boundaries, and this segregation in the majority of cases had been neglected
before our acquisition of the country. From the size of the grants and the want of definite
boundaries, arose nearly all the difficulties and complaints of the early settlers. Upon the
discovery of gold, immigrants from all parts of the world rushed into the country, increasing
the population in one or two years from a few thousand to several hundred thousand. A large
number crossed the plains from the Western States, and many of them sought for farming lands
upon which to settle. To them a grant of land, leagues in extent, seemed a monstrous wrong
to which they could not be reconciled. The vagueness, also, in many instances, of the boundaries
of the land claimed gave force and apparent reason to their objections. They accordingly settled
upon what they found unenclosed or uncultivated, without much regard to the claims of the Mexican
grantees. If the land upon which they thus settled was within the tracts formerly occupied
by the grantees with their herds, they denied the validity of grants so large in extent. If
the boundaries designated enclosed a greater amount than that specified in the grants, they
undertook to locate the supposed surplus. Thus, if a grant were of three leagues within boundaries
embracing four, the immigrant would undertake to appropriate to himself a portion of what he
deemed the surplus; forgetting that other immigrants might do the same thing, each claiming
that what he had taken was a portion of such surplus, until the grantee was deprived of his
entire property.

When I was brought to consider the questions to which this condition of things gave rise, I
assumed at the outset that the obligations of the treaty with Mexico were to be respected and
enforced. This treaty had stipulated for the protection of all rights of property of the citizens
of the ceded country; and that stipulation embraced inchoate and equitable rights, as well
as those which were perfect. It was not for the Supreme Court of California to question the
wisdom or policy of Mexico in making grants of such large portions of her domain, or of the
United States in stipulating for their protection. I felt the force of what Judge Grier had
expressed in his opinion in the case of The United States vs. Sutherland, in the 19th of Howard,
that the rhetoric which denounced the grants as enormous monopolies and princedoms might have
a just influence when urged to those who had a right to give or refuse; but as the United States
had bound themselves by a treaty to acknowledge and protect all bona fide titles granted by
the previous government, the court had no discretion to enlarge or contract such grants to
suit its own sense of propriety or to defeat just claims, however extensive, by stringent technical
rules of construction to which they were not originally subjected. Since then, while sitting
on the Bench of the Supreme Court of the United States, I have heard this obligation of our
government to protect the rights of Mexican grantees stated in the brilliant and powerful language
of Judge Black. In the Fossat case, referring to the land claimed by one Justo Larios, a Mexican
grantee, he said: "The land we are claiming never belonged to this government. It was private
property under a grant made long before our war with Mexico. When the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo
came to be ratified--at the very moment when Mexico was feeling the sorest pressure that could
be applied to her by the force of our armies, and the diplomacy of our statesmen--she utterly
refused to cede her public property in California unless upon the express condition that all
private titles should be faithfully protected. We made the promise. The gentleman sits on this
bench who was then our Minister there.[1] With his own right hand he pledged the sacred honor
of this nation that the United States would stand over the grantees of Mexico and keep them
safe in the enjoyment of their property. The pledge was not only that the government itself
would abstain from all disturbance of them, but that every blow aimed at their rights, come
from what quarter it might, should be caught upon the broad shield of our blessed Constitution
and our equal laws."

"It was by this assurance thus solemnly given that we won the reluctant consent of Mexico to
part with California. It gave us a domain of more than imperial grandeur. Besides the vast
extent of that country, it has natural advantages such as no other can boast. Its valleys teem
with unbounded fertility, and its mountains are filled with inexhaustible treasures of mineral
wealth. The navigable rivers run hundreds of miles into the interior, and the coast is indented
with the most capacious harbors in the world. The climate is more healthful than any other
on the globe: men can labor longer with less fatigue. The vegetation is more vigorous and the
products more abundant; the face of the earth is more varied, and the sky bends over it with
a lovelier blue.--That was what we gained by the promise to protect men in the situation of
Justo Larios, their children, their alienees, and others claiming through them. It is impossible
that in this nation they will ever be plundered in the face of such a pledge."--(2 Wallace, 703.)

Actuated by this principle--that fidelity to a nation's pledge is a sacred duty, and that justice
is the highest interest of the country, I endeavored, whenever the occasion presented itself,
and my associates heartily co-operated with me, to protect the Mexican grantees. Their grants
contained a stipulation for the possession of the lands granted, inasmuch as they were subject
to the conditions of cultivation and occupancy, and a failure to comply with the conditions
was considered by the tribunals of the United States as a most material circumstance in the
determination of the right of the grantees to a confirmation of their claims. I held, therefore,
with the concurrence of my associates, that the grantees, whether they were to be considered
as having a legal or an equitable right to the lands, were entitled to their possession until
the action of the government upon their claims, and, therefore, that they could recover in
ejectment. And when the grant was not a mere float, but was of land within defined boundaries,
which embraced a greater quantity than that specified in it, with a provision that the surplus
should be measured off by the government, I held that until such measurement the grantee could
hold the whole as against intruders, and until then he was a tenant in common with the government.
As I said in one of my opinions, speaking for the court, until such measurement no individual
could complain, much less could he be permitted to determine in advance, that any particular
locality would fall within the supposed surplus, and thereby justify its forcible seizure and
detention by himself. "If one person could in this way appropriate a particular parcel to himself,
all persons could do so; and thus the grantee, who is the donee of the government, would be
stripped of its bounty for the benefit of those who were not in its contemplation and were
never intended to be the recipients of its favors."[2]

These views have since met with general assent in California and have been approved by the
Supreme Court of the United States.[3] But at that time they gave great offence to a large
class, and the judges were denounced in unmeasured terms as acting in the interests of monopolists
and land-grabbers. Even now, when the wisdom and justice of their action are seen and generally
recognized, words of censure for it are occasionally whispered through the Press. Persons sometimes
seem to forget that to keep the plighted faith of the nation, to preserve from reproach its
fair fame, where its honor is engaged, is one of the highest duties of all men in public life.

The action of the court as to the possession of the public lands of the United States met with
more favor. The position of the people of California with respect to the public lands was unprecedented.
The discovery of gold brought, as already stated, an immense immigration to the country. The
slopes of the Sierra Nevada were traversed by many of the immigrants in search of the precious
metals, and by others the tillable land was occupied for agricultural purposes. The title was
in the United States, and there had been no legislation by which it could be acquired. Conflicting
possessory claims naturally arose, and the question was presented as to the law applicable
to them. As I have mentioned in my Narrative of Reminiscences, the Legislature in 1851 had
provided that in suits before magistrates for mining claims, evidence of the customs, usages,
and regulations of miners in their vicinage should be admissible, and, when not in conflict
with the Constitution and laws of the United States, should govern their decision, and that
the principle thus approved was soon applied in actions for mining claims in all courts. In
those cases it was considered that the first possessor or appropriator of the claim had the
better right as against all parties except the government, and that he, and persons claiming
under him, were entitled to protection. This principle received the entire concurrence of my
associates, and was applied by us, in its fullest extent, for the protection of all possessory
rights on the public lands. Thus, in Coryell vs. Cain, I said, speaking for the court: "It
is undoubtedly true, as a general rule, that the claimant in ejectment must recover upon the
strength of his own title, and not upon the weakness of his adversary's, and that it is a sufficient
answer to his action to show title out of him and in a third party. But this general rule has,
in this State, from the anomalous condition of things arising from the peculiar character of
the mining and landed interests of the country, been, to a certain extent, qualified and limited.
The larger portion of the mining lands within the State belong to the United States, and yet
that fact has never been considered as a sufficient answer to the prosecution of actions for
the recovery of portions of such lands. Actions for the possession of mining claims, water
privileges, and the like, situated upon the public lands, are matters of daily occurrence,
and if the proof of the paramount title of the government would operate to defeat them, confusion
and ruin would be the result. In determining controversies between parties thus situated, this
court proceeds upon the presumption of a grant from the government to the first appropriator
of mines, water privileges, and the like. This presumption, which would have no place for consideration
as against the assertion of the rights of the superior proprietor, is held absolute in all
those controversies. And with the public lands which are not mineral lands, the title, as between
citizens of the State, where neither connects himself with the government, is considered as
vested in the first possessor, and to proceed from him."--(16 Cal., p. 572.)

The difficulties attendant upon any attempt to give security to landed possessions in the State,
arising from the circumstances I have narrated, were increased by an opinion, which for some
time prevailed, that the precious metals, gold and silver, found in various parts of the country,
whether in public or private lands, belonged to the State by virtue of her sovereignty. To
this opinion a decision of the Supreme Court of the State, made in 1853, gave great potency.
In Hicks vs. Bell, decided that year, the court came to that conclusion, relying upon certain
decisions of the courts of England recognizing the right of the Crown to those metals. The
principal case on the subject was that of The Queen vs. The Earl of Northumberland, reported
in Plowden. The counsel of the Queen in that case gave, according to our present notions, some
very fanciful reasons for the conclusion reached, though none were stated in the judgment of
the court. There were three reasons, said the counsel, why the King should have the mines and
ores of gold and silver within the realm, in whatsoever land they were found: "The first was,
in respect to the excellency of the thing, for of all things which the soil within this realm
produces or yields, gold and silver are the most excellent, and of all persons in the realm,
the King is, in the eye of the law, most excellent. And the common law, which is founded upon
reason, appropriates everything to the person whom it best suits, as common and trivial things
to the common people, things of more worth to persons in a higher and superior class, and things
most excellent to those persons who excel all others; and because gold and silver are the most
excellent things which the soil contains, the law has appointed them (as in reason it ought)
to the person who is most excellent, and that is the King.--The second reason was, in respect
of the necessity of the thing. For the King is the head of the Weal-public and the subjects
are his members; and the office of the King, to which the law has appointed him, is to preserve
his subjects; and their preservation consisted in two things, viz., in an army to defend them
against hostilities, and in good laws. And an army cannot be had and maintained without treasure,
for which reason some authors, in their books, call treasure the sinews of war; and, therefore,
inasmuch as God has created mines within this realm, as a natural provision of treasure for
the defence of the realm, it is reasonable that he who has the government and care of the people,
whom he cannot defend without treasure, should have the treasure wherewith to defend them.--The
third reason was, in respect of its convenience to the subjects in the way of mutual commerce
and traffic. For the subjects of the realm must, of necessity, have intercourse or dealing
with one another, for no individual is furnished with all necessary commodities, but one has
need of the things which another has, and they cannot sell or buy together without coin.--And
if the subject should have it (the ore of gold or silver) the law would not permit him to coin
it, nor put a print or value upon it, for it belongs to the King only to fix the value of coin,
and to ascertain the price of the quantity, and to put the print upon it, which being done,
the coin becomes current for so much as the King has limited.--So that the body of the realm
would receive no benefit or advantage if the subject should have the gold and silver found
in mines in his land; but on the other hand, by appropriating it to the King, it tends to the
universal benefit of all the subjects in making their King able to defend them with an army
against all hostilities, and when he has put the print and value upon it, and has dispersed
it among his subjects, they are thereby enabled to carry on mutual commerce with one another,
and to buy and sell as they have occasion, and to traffic at their pleasure. Therefore, for
these reasons, viz., for the excellency of the thing, and for the necessity of it, and the
convenience that will accrue to the subjects, the common law, which is no other than pure and
tried reason, has appropriated the ore of gold and silver to the King, in whatever land it
be found."

The Supreme Court of the State, without considering the reasons thus assigned in the case in
Plowden, adopted its conclusion; and as the gold and silver in the British realm are there
held to belong to the Crown, it was concluded, on the hypothesis that the United States have
no municipal sovereignty within the limits of the State, that they must belong in this country
to the State. The State, therefore, said the court, "has solely the right to authorize them"
(the mines of gold and silver) "to be worked; to pass laws for their regulation; to license
miners; and to affix such terms and conditions as she may deem proper to the freedom of their
use. In the legislation upon this subject she has established the policy of permitting all
who desire it to work her mines of gold and silver, with or without conditions, and she has
wisely provided that their conflicting claims shall be adjudicated by the rules and customs
which may be established by bodies of them working in the same vicinity."--(3 Cal., 220.)

The miners soon grasped the full scope of this decision, and the lands of private proprietors
were accordingly invaded for the purpose of mining as freely as the public lands. It was the
policy of the State to encourage the development of the mines, and no greater latitude in exploration
could be desired than was thus sanctioned by the highest tribunal of the State. It was not
long, however, before a cry came up from private proprietors against the invasion of their
possessions which the decision had permitted; and the court was compelled to put some limitation
upon the enjoyment by the citizen of this right of the State. Accordingly, within two years
afterwards, in Stoakes vs. Barrett, (5 Cal., 37,) it held that although the State was the owner
of the gold and silver found in the lands of private individuals as well as in the public lands,
"yet to authorize an invasion of private property in order to enjoy a public franchise would
require more specific legislation than any yet resorted to."

The spirit to invade other people's lands, to which the original decision gave increased force
against the intention of its authors, could not be as easily repressed as it was raised in
the crowd of adventurers, who filled the mining regions. Accordingly, long before I went on
the bench, the right to dig for the precious metals on the lands of private individuals was
stoutly asserted under an assumed license of the State. And afterwards, in the case of Biddle
Boggs vs. The Merced Mining Co., which came before the court in 1859, where the plaintiff claimed
under a patent of the United States, issued upon the confirmation of a Mexican grant, the existence
of this license was earnestly maintained by parties having no connection with the government,
nor any claim of title to the land. Its existence was, however, repudiated by the court, and
speaking for it in that case I said: "There is gold in limited quantities scattered through
large and valuable districts, where the land is held in private proprietorship, and under this
pretended license the whole might be invaded, and, for all useful purposes, destroyed, no matter
how little remunerative the product of the mining. The entry might be made at all seasons,
whether the land was under cultivation or not, and without reference to its condition, whether
covered with orchards, vineyards, gardens, or otherwise. Under such a state of things, the
proprietor would never be secure in his possessions, and without security there would be little
development, for the incentive to improvement would be wanting. What value would there be to
a title in one man, with a right of invasion in the whole world? And what property would the
owner possess in mineral land--the same being in fact to him poor and valueless just in proportion
to the actual richness and abundance of its products? There is something shocking to all our
ideas of the rights of property in the proposition that one man may invade the possessions
of another, dig up his fields and gardens, cut down his timber, and occupy his land, under
the pretence that he has reason to believe there is gold under the surface, or if existing,
that he wishes to extract and remove it."

At a later day the court took up the doctrine, that the precious metals belonged to the State
by virtue of her sovereignty, and exploded it. The question arose in Moore vs. Smaw, reported
in 17th California, and in disposing of it, speaking for the court, I said: "It is undoubtedly
true that the United States held certain rights of sovereignty over the territory which is
now embraced within the limits of California, only in trust for the future State, and that
such rights at once vested in the new State upon her admission into the Union. But the ownership
of the precious metals found in public or private lands was not one of those rights. Such ownership
stands in no different relation to the sovereignty of a State than that of any other property
which is the subject of barter and sale. Sovereignty is a term used to express the supreme
political authority of an independent State or Nation. Whatever rights are essential to the
existence of this authority are rights of sovereignty. Thus the right to declare war, to make
treaties of peace, to levy taxes, to take private property for public uses, termed the right
of eminent domain, are all rights of sovereignty, for they are rights essential to the existence
of supreme political authority. In this country, this authority is vested in the people, and
is exercised through the joint action of their federal and State governments. To the federal
government is delegated the exercise of certain rights or powers of sovereignty; and with respect
to sovereignty, rights and powers are synonymous terms; and the exercise of all other rights
of sovereignty, except as expressly prohibited, is reserved to the people of the respective
States, or vested by them in their local governments. When we say, therefore, that a State
of the Union is sovereign, we only mean that she possesses supreme political authority, except
as to those matters over which such authority is delegated to the federal government, or prohibited
to the States; in other words, that she possesses all the rights and powers essential to the
existence of an independent political organization, except as they are withdrawn by the provisions
of the Constitution of the United States. To the existence of this political authority of the
State--this qualified sovereignty, or to any part of it--the ownership of the minerals of gold
and silver found within her limits is in no way essential. The minerals do not differ from
the great mass of property, the ownership of which may be in the United States, or in individuals,
without affecting in any respect the political jurisdiction of the State. They may be acquired
by the State, as any other property may be, but when thus acquired she will hold them in the
same manner that individual proprietors hold their property, and by the same right; by the
right of ownership, and not by any right of sovereignty."

And referring to the argument of counsel in the case in Plowden, I said that it would be a
waste of time to show that the reasons there advanced in support of the right of the Crown
to the mines could not avail to sustain any ownership of the State in them. The State takes
no property by reason of "the excellency of the thing," and taxation furnishes all requisite
means for the expenses of government. The convenience of citizens in commercial transactions
is undoubtedly promoted by a supply of coin, and the right of coinage appertains to sovereignty.
But the exercise of this right does not require the ownership of the precious metals by the
State, nor by the federal government, where this right is lodged under our system, as the experience
of every day demonstrates.

I also held that, although under the Mexican law the gold and silver found in land did not
pass with a grant of the land, a different result followed, under the common law, when a conveyance
of land was made by an individual or by the government. By such conveyance everything passed
in any way connected with the land, forming a portion of its soil or fixed to its surface.

The doctrine of the right of the State by virtue of her sovereignty to the mines of gold and
silver perished with this decision. It was never afterwards seriously asserted. But for holding
what now seems so obvious, the judges were then grossly maligned as acting in the interest
of monopolists and land owners, to the injury of the laboring class.

The decisions, however, which caused for the time the greatest irritation, and excited the
bitterest denunciation of the judges, related to the titles to land in the city of San Francisco,
though in the end they proved to be of incalculable benefit. Upon the acquisition of California,
there was a Mexican Pueblo upon the site of the city. The term pueblo is aptly translated by
the English word town. It has all the vagueness of that term, and is equally applicable to
a settlement of a few individuals at a particular place, or to a regularly organized municipality.
The Pueblo of San Francisco was composed of a small population; but, as early as 1835, it was
of sufficient importance to have an Ayuntamiento or Town Council, composed of alcaldes and
other officers, for its government. At the time of our acquisition of the country it was under
the government of alcaldes or justices of the peace. By the laws of Mexico, then in force,
pueblos or towns, when once officially recognized as such by the appointment of municipal magistrates,
became entitled to four square leagues of land, to be measured off and assigned to them by
the officers of the government. Under these laws the city of San Francisco, as successor of
the Mexican Pueblo, asserted a claim to such lands, to be measured off from the northern portion
of the peninsula upon which the city is situated. And the alcaldes, assuming an authority similar
to that possessed by alcaldes in other pueblos, exercised the power of distributing these municipal
lands in small parcels to settlers for building, cultivation, and other uses.

When the forces of the United States took possession of the city, the alcaldes, holding under
the Mexican government, were superseded by persons appointed by our military or naval officers
having command of the place. With the increase of population which followed the discovery of
gold, these magistrates were besieged by applicants for grants of land; and it was refreshing
to see with what generous liberality they disposed of lots in the city--a liberality not infrequent
when exercised with reference to other people's property. Lots, varying in size from fifty
to one hundred varas square, (a measure nearly equal to our yard,) were given away as freely
as they were asked, only a small fee to meet necessary charges for preparing and recording
the transfers being demanded. Thus, for the lot occupied by the Lick House, and worth now nearly
a million, only a few dollars, less I believe than twenty, were paid. And for the lot covered
by the Grand Hotel, admitted to be now worth half a million, less than thirty-five dollars
were paid.

The authority of the alcaldes to dispose of the lands was questioned by many of the new immigrants,
and the validity of their grants denied. They asserted that the land was part of the public
property of the United States. Many holding these views gave evidence of the earnestness of
their convictions by immediately appropriating to themselves as much vacant land in the city
as they could conveniently occupy. Disputes followed, as a matter of course, between claimants
under the alcalde grants and those holding as settlers, which often gave rise to long and bitter
litigation. The whole community was in fact divided between those who asserted the existence
of a pueblo having a right to the lands mentioned, and the power of the alcaldes to make grants
of them; and those who insisted that the land belonged to the United States.

Early in 1850, after the State government was organized, the Legislature incorporated the City
of San Francisco; and, as is usual with municipal bodies not restrained by the most stringent
provisions, it contracted more debts than its means warranted, and did not always make provision
for their payment at maturity. Numerous suits, therefore, were instituted and judgments were
recovered against the city. Executions followed, which were levied upon the lands claimed by
her as successor of the pueblo. Where the occupants denied the title of the city, they were
generally indifferent to the sales by the sheriff. Property of immense value, in some cases
many acres in extent, was, in consequence, often struck off to bidders at a merely nominal
price. Upon the deeds of the officer, suits in ejectment were instituted in great numbers;
and thus questions as to the existence of the alleged pueblo, and whether, if existing, it
had any right to land, and the nature of such right, if any, were brought before the lower
courts; and, finally, in a test case--Hart vs. Burnett--they found their way to the Supreme
Court of the State. In the meantime a large number of persons had become interested in these
sales, aside from the occupants of the land, and the greatest anxiety was manifested as to
the decision of the Court. Previous decisions on the questions involved were not consistent;
nor had they met the entire approval of the profession, although, the opinion prevailed generally
that a Mexican pueblo of some kind, owning or having an interest in lands, had existed on the
site of the city upon the acquisition of the country, and that such lands, like other property
of the city not used for public purposes, were vendible on execution.

In 1855, after the sale in respect to which the test case was made, the Council of the city
passed "the Van Ness Ordinance," so called from the name of its author, the object of which
was to settle and quiet, as far as practicable, the title of persons occupying land in the
city. It relinquished and granted the right and interest of the city to lands within its corporate
limits, as defined by the charter of 1851, with certain exceptions, to parties in the actual
possession thereof, by themselves or tenants, on or before the first of January, 1855, if the
possession were continued to the time of the introduction of the ordinance into the Common
Council in June of that year; or, if interrupted by an intruder or trespasser, it had been
or might be recovered by legal process. And it declared that, for the purposes of the act,
all persons should be deemed in possession who held titles to land within the limits mentioned,
by virtue of a grant made by the authorities of the pueblo, including alcaldes among them,
before the 7th of July, 1846,--the day when the jurisdiction over the country is deemed to
have passed from Mexico to the United States,--or by virtue of a grant subsequently made by
those authorities, if the grant, or a material portion of it, had been entered in a proper
book of record deposited in the office or custody of the recorder of the county of San Francisco
on or before April 3d, 1850. This ordinance was approved by an act of the Legislature of the
State in March, 1858, and the benefit of it and of the confirmatory act was claimed by the
defendant in the test case.

That case was most elaborately argued by able and learned counsel. The whole law of Mexico
respecting pueblos, their powers, rights, and property, and whether, if possessing property,
it was subject to forced sale, the effect upon such land of the change of sovereignty to the
United States, the powers of alcaldes in disposing of the property of these municipalities,
the effect of the Van Ness Ordinance, and the confirmatory act of the Legislature, were all
discussed with a fullness and learning which left nothing unexplained or to be added. For weeks
afterwards the judges gave the most laborious attention to the questions presented, and considered
every point and the argument on both sides of it with anxious and painful solicitude to reach
a just conclusion. The opinion of the court, prepared by Mr. Justice Baldwin, is without precedent
for the exhaustive learning and research it exhibits upon the points discussed. The Court held,
among other things, that, at the date of the conquest and cession of the country, San Francisco
was a pueblo, having the rights which the law of Mexico conferred upon such municipal organizations;
that as such pueblo it had proprietary rights to certain lands, which were held in trust for
the public use of the city, and were not subject to seizure and sale under execution; that
such portions as were not set apart for common use or special purposes could be granted in
lots to private persons by its ayuntamiento or by alcaldes or other officers who represented
or had succeeded to its powers; that the lands, and the trusts upon which they were held, were
public and municipal in their nature, and since the organization of the State were under its
control and supervision; that the act of the Legislature confirming the Van Ness Ordinance
was a proper exercise of the power of the State, and vested in the possessors therein described,
as against the city and State, a title to the lands mentioned; and that the city held the lands
of the pueblo, not legally disposed of by its officers, unaffected by sheriff's sales under
executions against her.

This decision was of the greatest importance both to the city and the occupants of land within
its limits. The Van Ness Ordinance had reserved from grant for the uses of the city all the
lots which it then occupied or had set apart for public squares, streets, sites for school-houses,
city hall and other buildings belonging to the corporation, and also such other lots as it
might subsequently select for public purposes within certain designated limits. All these were
by the decision at once released from any possible claim by virtue of sales on executions.
All persons occupying lands not thus reserved were by the decision quieted in their possession,
so far as any claim of the city or State could be urged against them. Property to the value
of many millions was thereby rescued from the spoiler and speculator, and secured to the city
or settler. Peace was given to thousands of homes. Yet for this just and most beneficent judgment
there went up from a multitude, who had become interested in the sales, a fierce howl of rage
and hate. Attacks full of venom were made upon Judge Baldwin and myself, who had agreed to
the decision. No epithets were too vile to be applied to us; no imputations were too gross
to be cast at us. The Press poured out curses upon our heads. Anonymous circulars filled with
falsehoods, which malignity alone could invent, were spread broadcast throughout the city,
and letters threatening assassination in the streets or by-ways were sent to us through the
mail. The violence of the storm, however, was too great to last. Gradually it subsided and
reason began to assert its sway. Other words than those of reproach were uttered; and it was
not many months before the general sentiment of the people of the city was with the decision.
A year did not elapse before the great good it had conferred upon the city and settler was
seen and appreciated. Since then its doctrines have been repeatedly re-affirmed. They have
been approved by the Supreme Court of the United States; and now no one doubts their soundness.

After that decision there was still wanting for the complete settlement of titles in the city
the confirmation by the tribunals of the United States of her claim to the lands. The act of
Congress of March 3d, 1851, creating the Board of Land Commissioners, provided that all claims
to land in California, by virtue of any right or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican
government, should be presented to the board for examination and adjudication. Accordingly,
the city of San Francisco, soon after the organization of the board, in 1852, presented her
claim for four square leagues as successor of the pueblo, and asked for its confirmation. In
December, 1854, the board confirmed the claim for a portion of the four square leagues, but
not for the whole; the portion confirmed being embraced within the charter limits of 1851.
The city was dissatisfied with this limitation, and appealed from the decision of the Commissioners
to the District Court of the United States. An appeal was also taken by the United States,
but was subsequently withdrawn. The case remained in the District Court without being disposed
of until September, 1864, nearly ten years, when, under the authority of an act of Congress
of July 1st of that year, it was transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States. Whilst
the case was pending in the District Court, the population of the city had increased more than
four-fold; and improvements of a costly character had been made in all parts of it. The magnitude
of the interests which had thus grown up demanded that the title to the land upon which the
city rested should be in some way definitely settled. To expedite this settlement, as well
as the settlement of titles generally in the State, was the object of the act of July 1st,
1864. Its object is so stated in its title. It was introduced by Senator Conness, of California,
who was alive to everything that could tend to advance the interests of the State. He felt
that nothing would promote its peace and prosperity more than giving security to its land titles,
and he labored earnestly to bring about that result. In framing the act, he consulted me, and
at my suggestion introduced sections four, five, and seven, which I drafted and gave to him,
but without the exception and proviso to the fifth section, which were added at the request
of the Commissioner of the Land Office.[4] The fourth section authorized the District Court
to transfer to the Circuit Court cases pending before it arising under the act of March 3d,
1851, affecting the title to lands within the corporate limits of a city or town, and provided
that in such cases both the District and Circuit Judges might sit. By the fifth section, all
the right and title of the United States to the land within the corporate limits of the city,
as defined by its charter of 1851, were relinquished and granted to the city and its successors
for the uses and purposes specified in the Van Ness Ordinance. The exceptions incorporated
at the suggestion of the Commissioner of the Land Office related to parcels of land previously
or then occupied by the United States for military, naval, or other public purposes, and such
other parcels as might be subsequently designated for such purposes by the President within
one year after the return to the land office of an approved plat of the exterior limits of
the city. The holders of grants from the authorities of the pueblo and the occupants of land
within the limits of the charter of 1851 were thus quieted in their possessions. But as the
claim of the city was for a much greater quantity, the case for its confirmation was still
prosecuted. Under the fourth section it was transferred to the Circuit Court, as already stated;
and it was soon afterwards brought to a hearing. On the 30th of October, 1864, it was decided.
For some reason I do not now recall, the District Judge was unable to sit with me, and the
case was, therefore, heard before me alone. I held that a pueblo of some kind existed at the
site of the present city of San Francisco upon the cession of the country; that as such it
was entitled to the possession of certain lands to the extent of four square leagues; and that
the present city had succeeded to such rights, following, in these particulars, the decision
which had previously been made in the case of Hart vs. Burnett, by the Supreme Court of the
State, in which I had participated. I accordingly decided that the city was entitled to have
her claim confirmed to four square leagues of land, subject to certain reservations. But I
also added that the lands to which she was entitled had not been given to her by the laws of
the former government in absolute property with full right of disposition and alienation, but
to be held in trust for the benefit of the whole community, with such powers of use, disposition,
and alienation as had been or might thenceforth be conferred upon her or her officers for the
execution of the trust. The trust character of the city's title was expressed in the decree
of confirmation. The decision was rendered on the 30th of October, 1864, as stated, and a decree
was soon afterwards entered; but as a motion was made for a re-hearing, the control over it
was retained by the Circuit Court until May of the following year. Upon the suggestion of counsel,
it was then modified in some slight particulars so as to limit the confirmation to land above
ordinary high water mark, as it existed at the date of the acquisition of the country, namely,
the 7th of July, 1846. On the 18th of May, 1865, the decree was finally settled and entered.
Appeals from it were prosecuted to the Supreme Court both by the United States and by the city;
by the United States from the whole decree, and by the city from so much of it as included
certain reservations in the estimate of the quantity of land confirmed.

In October following I proceeded as usual to Washington to attend the then approaching term
of the Supreme Court, and thought no more of the case until my attention was called to it by
a most extraordinary circumstance. Just before leaving San Francisco Mr. Rulofson, a photographer
of note, requested me to sit for a photograph, expressing a desire to add it to his gallery.
I consented, and a photograph of a large size was taken. As I was leaving his rooms he observed
that he intended to make some pictures of a small size from it, and would send me a few copies.
On the morning of the 13th of January following (1866), at Washington, Mr. Delos Lake, a lawyer
of distinction in California, at one time a District Judge of the State, and then District
Attorney of the United States, joined me, remarking, as he did so, that the arrival of the
California steamer at New York had been telegraphed, and he hoped that I had received some
letters for him, as he had directed his letters to be forwarded to my care. I replied that
when I left my room my messenger had not brought my mail; but if he would accompany me there
we would probably find it. Accordingly, we proceeded to my room, where on the centre-table
lay my mail from California, consisting of a large number of letters and papers. Among them
I noticed a small package about an inch and a half thick, three inches in breadth, and three
and a half in length. It was addressed as follows, the words being printed:

  Hon. STEPHEN J. FIELD,
  Washington, D.C.]

It bore the stamp of the San Francisco post-office upon the address. My name had evidently
been cut from the California Reports, but the words "Washington, D.C.," and "Per steamer,"
had been taken from a newspaper. The slips were pasted on the package. On the opposite side
were the words in print:

As I took up the package I remarked that this must come from Rulofson;--no, I immediately added,
Rulofson has nothing to do with the Pioneer Gallery. It then occurred to me that it might be
a present for my wife, recollecting at the moment that the mail came by the steamer which sailed
from San Francisco about Christmas time. It may be, I said to myself, a Christmas present for
my wife. I will open it just far enough to see, and, if it be intended for her, I will close
it and forward it to New York, where she was at the time. I accordingly tore off the covering
and raised the lid just far enough to enable me to look inside. I was at once struck with the
black appearance of the inside. "What is this, Lake?" I said, addressing myself to my friend.
Judge Lake looked over my shoulder into the box, as I held it in my hand, and at once exclaimed,
"It is a torpedo. Don't open it." I was startled by the suggestion, for the idea of a torpedo
was the last thing in the world to occur to me. I immediately laid the package on the sill
of the window, where it was subjected to a careful inspection by us both, so far as it could
be made with the lid only an eighth of an inch open.

Soon afterwards Judge Lake took the package to the Capitol, which was directly opposite to
my rooms, and to the office of the Clerk of the Supreme Court, and showed it to Mr. Broom,
one of the deputies. They dipped the package into water and left it to soak for some minutes.
They then took it into the carriage way under the steps leading to the Senate Chamber, and
shielding themselves behind one of the columns threw the box against the wall. The blow broke
the hinge of the lid and exposed the contents. A murderous contrivance it was;--a veritable
infernal machine! Twelve cartridges such as are used in a common pistol, about an inch in length,
lay imbedded in a paste of some kind, covered with fulminating powder, and so connected with
a bunch of friction matches, a strip of sand-paper, and a piece of linen attached to the lid,
that on opening the box the matches would be ignited and the whole exploded. The package was
sent to the War Department, and the following report was returned, giving a detailed description
of the machine:

    WASHINGTON ARSENAL, Jan. 16, 1866.

    Gen. A.B. Dyer, Chief of Ordnance, Washington, D.C.

    SIR: Agreeably to your instructions, I have examined the
    explosive machine sent to this arsenal yesterday. It is a
    small miniature case containing twelve copper cartridges, such
    as are used in a Smith & Wesson pocket pistol, a bundle of
    sensitive friction matches, a strip of sand-paper, and some
    fulminating powder. The cartridges and matches are imbedded
    in common glue to keep them in place. The strip of sand-paper
    lies upon the heads of the matches. One end has been thrown
    back, forming a loop, through which a bit of thread evidently
    passed to attach it to the lid of the case. This thread may be
    seen near the clasp of the lid, broken in two. There are two
    wire staples, under which the strip of sand-paper was intended
    to pass to produce the necessary pressure on the matches.
    The thread is so fixed that the strip of sand-paper could be
    secured to the lid after it was closed.

    The whole affair is so arranged that the opening of the lid
    would necessarily ignite the matches, were it not that the
    lower end of the strip has become imbedded in the glue, which
    prevents it from moving. That the burning of the matches may
    explode the cartridges, there is a hole in each case, and all
    are covered with mealed powder.

    One of the cartridges has been examined and found to contain
    ordinary grain powder. Two of the cartridges were exploded in
    a closed box sent herewith. The effect of the explosion was an
    indentation on one side of the box.

    Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
    J.G. BENTON,
    Major of Ord. and Bvt. Col. Comdg.

Between the outside covering and the box there were two or three folds of tissue-paper--placed
there, no doubt, to prevent the possibility of an explosion from the stamping at the post office,
or the striking against other packages during the voyage from San Francisco to New York.

On the inside of the lid was pasted a slip cut from a San Francisco paper, dated October 31st,
1864, stating that on the day previous I had decided the case of the City against the United
States, involving its claim to four square leagues of land, and giving the opening lines of
my opinion.

The Secretary of War, Mr. Stanton, immediately telegraphed in cypher to General Halleck, then
in command in San Francisco, to take active measures to find out, if possible, the person who
made and sent the infernal machine. General Halleck put the detectives of his department on
the search. Others employed detectives of the San Francisco police--but all in vain. Suspicions
were excited as to the complicity of different parties, but they were never sustained by sufficient
evidence to justify the arrest of any one. The instrument, after remaining in the hands of
the detectives in San Francisco for nearly two years, was returned to me and it is now in my
possession.[5]

It has often been a matter of wonder to me how it was that some good angel whispered to me
not to open the box. My impetuous temperament would naturally have led me to tear it open without
delay. Probably such hesitation in opening a package directed to me never before occurred,
and probably never will again. Who knows but that a mother's prayer for the protection of her
son, breathed years before, was answered then? Who can say that her spirit was not then hovering
over him and whispering caution in his ear? That I should on that occasion have departed from
my usual mode of action is strange--passing strange.

       *       *       *       *       *

As already stated, the fifth section of the act of Congress of July 1st, 1864, which granted
the interest of the United States to the lands within the charter limits of 1851 to the city
and its successors, in trust for the benefit of possessors under the Van Ness Ordinance, among
other things provided for certain reservations to be subsequently made by the President, within
one year after an approved plat showing the exterior limits of the city had been filed in the
land office. No such map was filed nor were any reservations made. The case on appeal in the
meantime was not reached in the Supreme Court, and was not likely to be for a long period.
Ascertaining from General Halleck that the Secretary of War would not recommend any further
reservations to be made from the municipal lands, and that probably none would be made, I drew
a bill to quiet the title of the city to all the lands embraced within the decree of confirmation,
and gave it to Senator Conness, who being ready, as usual, to act for the interests of the
city, immediately took charge of it and secured its passage in the Senate. In the House Mr.
McRuer, Member of Congress from California, took charge of it, and with the assistance of the
rest of the delegation from the State, procured its passage there. It was signed by the President
and became a law on the 8th of March, 1866. By it all the right and title of the United States
to the land covered by the decree of the Circuit Court were relinquished and granted to the
city, and the claim to the land was confirmed, subject, however, to certain reservations and
exceptions; and upon trust that all the land not previously granted to the city, should be
disposed of and conveyed by the city to the parties in the bona fide actual possession thereof,
by themselves or tenants, on the passage of the act, in such quantities, and upon such terms
and conditions, as the Legislature of the State of California might prescribe, except such
parcels thereof as might be reserved and set apart by ordinance of the city for public uses.

Not long afterwards both the appeals to the Supreme Court were dismissed by stipulation of
parties. The litigation over the source of title to lands within the limits of the city, not
disposed of by independent grants of the government previous to the acquisition of the country,
was thus settled and closed. The title of the city rests, therefore, upon the decree of the
Circuit Court entered on the 18th day of May, 1865, and this confirmatory act of Congress.
It has been so adjudged by the Supreme Court of the United States.--(See Townsend vs. Greely,
5 Wall., 337; Grisar vs. McDowell, 6 Wall., 379.)

The title of the city being settled, the municipal authorities took measures, under the provisions
of the confirmatory act, to set apart lands for school-houses, hospitals, court-house buildings,
and other public purposes, and through their exertions, instigated and encouraged by Mr. McCoppin,
the accomplished and efficient Mayor of the city at that time, the Ocean Park, which looks
out upon the Pacific Ocean and the Golden Gate, and is destined to be one of the finest parks
in the world, was set apart and secured to the city for all time. As the grounds thus taken
were, in many instances, occupied by settlers, or had been purchased from them, an assessment
was levied by the city and sanctioned by the Legislature upon other lands conveyed to the occupants,
as a condition of their receiving deeds from the city; and the money raised was applied to
compensate those whose lands had been appropriated.

[1] Mr. Justice Clifford.

[2] Cornwall vs. Culver, 16 Cal., 429.

[3] Van Reynegan vs. Bolton, 95 U.S., 33.

[4] See Exhibit J, in Appendix.

[5] See Exhibit K, in Appendix.

HOSTILITY TO THE SUPREME COURT AFTER THE CIVIL WAR.--THE SCOFIELD RESOLUTION.

The irritations and enmities created by the civil war did not end with the cessation of active
hostilities. They were expressed whenever any acts of the military officers of the United States
were called in question; or any legislation of the States or of Congress in hostility to the
insurgents was assailed; or the validity of the "Reconstruction Acts" was doubted. And they
postponed that cordial reconciliation which all patriotic men earnestly desired.

The insurrection was overthrown after a contest which, for its magnitude and the number and
courage of the belligerents, was without a parallel in history. The immense loss of life and
destruction of property caused by the contest, and the burden of the enormous debt created
in its prosecution, left a bitterness in the hearts of the victors which it was difficult to
remove. The assassination of Mr. Lincoln added intensity to the feeling. That act of a madman,
who had conceived the idea that he might become in our history what Brutus was in the history
of Rome, the destroyer of the enemy of his country, was ascribed to a conspiracy of leading
Confederates. The proclamation of the Secretary of War, offering a reward for the arrest of
parties charged with complicity in the act, gave support to this notion. The wildest stories,
now known to have had no foundation, were circulated and obtained ready credence among the
people of the North, already wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement. They manifested,
therefore, great impatience when a doubt was cast upon the propriety or validity of the acts
of the government, or of its officers, which were taken for the suppression of the rebellion
or "the reconstruction" of the States; and to question their validity was almost considered
proof of hostility to the Union.

By those who considered the union indissoluble, except by the common consent of the people
of the several States, the organization known as the Confederate States could only be regarded
as unlawful and rebellious, to be suppressed, if necessary, by force of arms. The Constitution
prohibits any treaty, alliance, or confederation by one State with another, and it declares
on its face that it is the supreme law of the land. The Confederate government, therefore,
could only be treated by the United States as the military representative of the insurrection
against their authority. Belligerent rights were accorded to its armed forces in the conduct
of the war, and they thus had the standing and rights of parties engaged in lawful warfare.
But no further recognition was ever given to it, and when those forces were overthrown its
whole fabric disappeared. But not so with the insurgent States which had composed the Confederacy.
They retained the same form of government and the same general system of laws, during and subsequent
to the war, which they had possessed previously. Their organizations as distinct political
communities were not destroyed by the war, although their relations to the central authority
were changed. And their acts, so far as they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy
of the general government, or the rights of citizens of the loyal States, were valid and binding.
All the ordinary authority of government for the protection of rights of persons and property,
the enforcement of contracts, the punishment of crime, and the due order of society, continued
to be exercised by them as though no civil war had existed.

There was, therefore, a general expectation throughout the country, upon the cessation of actual
hostilities, that these States would be restored to their former relations in the Union as
soon as satisfactory evidence was furnished to the general government that resistance to its
authority was overthrown and abandoned, and its laws were enforced and obeyed. Some little
time might elapse before this result would clearly appear. It was not expected that they would
be immediately restored upon the defeat of the armies of the Confederacy, nor that their public
men, with the animosities of the struggle still alive, would at once be admitted into the councils
of the nation, and allowed to participate in its government. But whenever it was satisfactorily
established that there would be no renewal of the struggle and that the laws of the United
States would be obeyed, it was generally believed that the restoration of the States would
be an accomplished fact.

President Johnson saw in the institution of slavery the principal source of the irritation
and ill-feeling between the North and the South, which had led to the war. He believed, therefore,
that its abolition should be exacted, and that this would constitute a complete guaranty for
the future. At that time the amendment for its abolition, which had passed the two Houses of
Congress, was pending before the States for their action. "Until it is done," he added, "the
past, however much we may desire it, will not be forgotten.

It would have been most fortunate for the country had this condition been deemed sufficient
and been accepted as such. But the North was in no mood for a course so simple and just. Its
leaders clamored for more stringent measures, on the ground that they were needed for the protection
of the freedmen, and the defeat of possible schemes for a new insurrection. It was not long,
therefore, before a system of measures was adopted, which resulted in the establishment at
the South of temporary governments, subject to military control, the offices of which were
filled chiefly by men alien to the States and indifferent to their interests. The misrule and
corruption which followed are matters of public history. It is no part of my purpose to speak
of them. I wish merely to refer to the state of feeling existing upon the close of the civil
war as introductory to what I have to say of the unfriendly disposition manifested at the North
towards the Supreme Court and some of its members, myself in particular.

Acts of the military officers, and legislation of some of the States and of Congress, during
and immediately succeeding the war, were soon brought to the consideration of the Court. Its
action thereon was watched by members of the Republican party with manifest uneasiness and
distrust. Its decision in the Dred Scott case had greatly impaired their confidence in its
wisdom and freedom from political influences. Many of them looked upon that decision as precipitating
the war upon the country, by the sanction it gave to efforts made to introduce slavery into
the Territories; and they did not hesitate to express their belief that the sympathies of a
majority of the Court were with the Confederates. Intimations to that effect were thrown out
in some of the journals of the day, at first in guarded language, and afterwards more directly,
until finally it came to be generally believed that it was the purpose of the Court, if an
opportunity offered, to declare invalid most of the legislation relating to the Southern States
which had been enacted during the war and immediately afterwards. Nothing could have been more
unjust and unfounded. Many things, indeed, were done during the war, and more after its close,
which could not be sustained by any just construction of the limitations of the Constitution.
It was to be expected that many things would be done in the heat of the contest which could
not bear the examination of calmer times. Mr. Chief Justice Chase expressed this fact in felicitous
language when speaking of his own change of views as to the validity of the provision of law
making government notes a legal tender, he said: "It is not surprising that amid the tumult
of the late civil war, and under the influence of apprehensions for the safety of the Republic
almost universal, different views, never before entertained by American statesmen or jurists,
were adopted by many. The time was not favorable to considerate reflection upon the constitutional
limits of legislative or executive authority. If power was assumed from patriotic motives,
the assumption found ready justification in patriotic hearts. Many who doubted yielded their
doubts; many who did not doubt were silent. Those who were strongly averse to making government
notes a legal tender felt themselves constrained to acquiesce in the views of the advocates
of the measure. Not a few who then insisted upon its necessity, or acquiesced in that view,
have, since the return of peace, and under the influence of the calmer time, reconsidered this
conclusion, and now concur in those which we have just announced."

Similar language might be used with reference to other things done during the war and afterwards,
besides making government notes a legal tender. The Court and all its members appreciated the
great difficulties and responsibilities of the government, both in the conduct of the war,
and in effecting an early restoration of the States afterwards, and no disposition was manifested
at any time to place unnecessary obstacles in its way. But when its measures and legislation
were brought to the test of judicial judgment there was but one course to pursue, and that
was to apply the law and the Constitution as strictly as though no war had ever existed. The
Constitution was not one thing in war, and another in peace. It always spoke the same language,
and was intended as a rule for all times and occasions. It recognized, indeed, the possibility
of war, and, of course, that the rules of war had to be applied in its conduct in the field
of military operations. The Court never presumed to interfere there, but outside of that field,
and with respect to persons not in the military service within States which adhered to the
Union, and after the war in all the States, the Court could not hesitate to say that the Constitution,
with all its limitations upon the exercise of executive and legislative authority, was, what
it declares on its face to be, the supreme law of the land, by which all legislation, State
and federal, must be measured.

The first case growing out of the acts of military officers during the war, which attracted
general attention and created throughout the North an uneasy feeling, was the Milligan case,
which was before the Court on habeas corpus. In October, 1864, Milligan, a citizen of the United
States and a resident of Indiana, had been arrested by order of the military commander of the
district and confined in a military prison near the capital of the State. He was subsequently,
on the 21st of the same month, put on trial before a military commission convened at Indianapolis,
in that State, upon charges of: 1st. Conspiring against the government of the United States;
2d. Affording aid and comfort to the rebels against the authority of the United States; 3d.
Inciting insurrection; 4th. Disloyal practices; and 5th. Violations of the laws of war; and
was found guilty and sentenced to death by hanging. He had never been in the military service;
there was no rebellion in Indiana; and the civil courts were open in that State and in the
undisturbed exercise of their jurisdiction. The sentence of the military commission was affirmed
by the President, who directed that it should be carried into immediate execution. The condemned
thereupon presented a petition to the Circuit Court of the United States in Indiana for a writ
of habeas corpus, praying to be discharged from custody, alleging the illegality of his arrest
and of the proceedings of the military commission. The judges of the Circuit Court were divided
in opinion upon the question whether the writ should be issued and the prisoner be discharged,
which, of course, involved the jurisdiction of the military commission to try the petitioner.
Upon a certificate of the division the case was brought to the Supreme Court at the December
term of 1865. The case has become historical in the jurisprudence of the country, and it is
unnecessary to state the proceedings at length. Suffice it to say that it was argued with great
ability by eminent counsel--consisting of Mr. Joseph E. McDonald, now U.S. Senator from Indiana,
Mr. James A. Garfield, a distinguished member of Congress, Mr. Jeremiah S. Black, the eminent
jurist of Pennsylvania, and Mr. David Dudley Field, of New York, for the petitioner; and by
Mr. Henry Stanbery, the Attorney-General, and Gen. B.F. Butler, for the government. Their arguments
were remarkable for learning, research, ability, and eloquence, and will repay the careful
perusal not only of the student of law, but of all lovers of constitutional liberty. Only a
brief synopsis of them is given in the report of the case in 4th Wallace. The decision of the
Court was in favor of the liberty of the citizen. Its opinion was announced by Mr. Justice
Davis, and it will stand as a perpetual monument to his honor. It laid down in clear and unmistakable
terms the doctrine that military commissions organized during the war, in a State not invaded
nor engaged in rebellion, in which the federal courts were open and in the undisturbed exercise
of their judicial functions, had no jurisdiction to try a citizen who was not a resident of
a State in rebellion, nor a prisoner of war, nor a person in the military or naval service;
and that Congress could not invest them with any such power; and that in States where the courts
were thus open and undisturbed the guaranty of trial by jury contained in the Constitution
was intended for a state of war as well as a state of peace, and is equally binding upon rulers
and people at all times and under all circumstances.

This decision was concurred in by Justices Nelson, Grier, Clifford, and myself, then constituting,
with Justice Davis, a majority of the Court. At this day it seems strange that its soundness
should have been doubted by any one, yet it was received by a large class--perhaps a majority
of the Northern people--with disfavor, and was denounced in unmeasured terms by many influential
journals. It was cited as conclusive evidence of the hostility of the Court to the acts of
the government for the suppression of the rebellion. The following, taken from the Daily Chronicle
of January 14th, 1867, a journal of Washington, edited by Mr. Forney, then Secretary of the
Senate, is a fair sample of the language applied to the decision:

    "The opinion of the Supreme Court on one of the most momentous
    questions ever submitted to a judicial tribunal, has not
    startled the country more by its far-reaching and calamitous
    results, than it has amazed jurists and statesmen by the
    poverty of its learning and the feebleness of its logic. It
    has surprised all, too, by its total want of sympathy with the
    spirit in which the war for the Union was prosecuted, and,
    necessarily, with those great issues growing out of it, which
    concern not only the life of the Republic, but the very
    progress of the race, and which, having been decided on the
    battle-field, are now sought to be reversed by the very theory
    of construction which led to rebellion."

At the same term with the Milligan case the test-oath case from Missouri was brought before
the Court and argued. In January, 1865, a convention had assembled in that State to amend its
constitution. Its members had been elected in November previous. In April, 1865, the constitution,
as revised and amended, was adopted by the convention, and in June following by the people.
Elected, as the members were, in the midst of the war, it exhibited throughout traces of the
animosities which the war had engendered. By its provisions the most stringent and searching
oath as to past conduct known in history was required, not only of officers under it, but of
parties holding trusts and pursuing avocations in no way connected with the administration
of the government. The oath, divided into its separates parts, contained more than thirty distinct
affirmations touching past conduct, and even embraced the expression of sympathies and desires.
Every person unable to take the oath was declared incapable of holding, in the State, "any
office of honor, trust, or profit under its authority, or of being an officer, councilman,
director, or trustee, or other manager of any corporation, public or private, now existing
or hereafter established by its authority, or of acting as a professor or teacher in any educational
institution, or in any common or other school, or of holding any real estate or other property
in trust for the use of any church, religious society, or congregation."

And every person holding, at the time the amended constitution took effect, any of the offices,
trusts, or positions mentioned, was required, within sixty days thereafter, to take the oath;
and, if he failed to comply with this requirement, it was declared that his office, trust,
or position should ipso facto become vacant.

No person, after the expiration of the sixty days, was permitted, without taking the oath,
"to practice as an attorney or counsellor-at-law," nor, after that period could "any person
be competent as a bishop, priest, deacon, minister, elder, or other clergyman, of any religious
persuasion, sect, or denomination, to teach, or preach, or solemnize marriages."

Fine and imprisonment were prescribed as a punishment for holding or exercising any of "the
offices, positions, trusts, professions, or functions" specified, without having taken the
oath; and false swearing or affirmation in taking it was declared to be perjury, punishable
by imprisonment in the penitentiary.

Mr. Cummings of Missouri, a priest of the Roman Catholic Church, was indicted and convicted
in one of the Circuit Courts of that State, of the crime of teaching and preaching as a priest
and minister of that religious denomination without having first taken the oath thus prescribed,
and was sentenced to pay a fine of five hundred dollars and to be committed to jail until the
same was paid. On appeal to the Supreme Court of the State the judgment was affirmed, and the
case was brought on a writ of error to our court. It was there argued with great learning and
ability by Mr. Montgomery Blair, of Washington, Mr. David Dudley Field, of New York, and Mr.
Reverdy Johnson, of Maryland, for Mr. Cummings; and by Mr. G.P. Strong and Mr. John B. Henderson,
of Missouri, the latter then United States Senator for the State.

It was evident, after a brief consideration of the case, that the power asserted by the State
of Missouri to exact this oath for past conduct from parties, as a condition of their continuing
to pursue certain professions, or to hold certain trusts, might, if sustained, be often exercised
in times of excitement to the oppression, if not ruin, of the citizen. For, if the State could
require the oath for the acts mentioned, it might require it for any other acts of one's past
life, the number and character of which would depend upon the mere will of its legislature.
It might compel one to affirm, under oath, that he had never violated the ten commandments,
nor exercised his political rights except in conformity with the views of the existing majority.
Indeed, under this kind of legislation, the most flagrant wrongs might be committed and whole
classes of people deprived, not only of their political, but of their civil rights.

It is difficult to speak of the whole system of expurgatory oaths for past conduct without
a shudder at the suffering and oppression they were not only capable of effecting but often
did effect. Such oaths have never been exacted in England, nor on the Continent of Europe;
at least I can recall no instance of the kind. Test-oaths there have always been limited to
an affirmation on matters of present belief, or as to present disposition towards those in
power. It was reserved for the ingenuity of legislators in our country during the civil war
to make test-oaths reach to past conduct.

The Court held that enactments of this character, operating, as they did, to deprive parties
by legislative decree of existing rights for past conduct, without the formality and the safeguard
of a judicial trial, fell within the inhibition of the Constitution against the passage of
bills of attainder. In depriving parties of existing rights for past conduct, the provisions
of the constitution of Missouri imposed, in effect, a punishment for such conduct. Some of
the acts for which such deprivation was imposed were not punishable at the time; and for some
this deprivation was added to the punishments previously prescribed, and thus they fell under
the further prohibition of the Constitution against the passage of an ex post facto law. The
decision of the Court, therefore, was for the discharge of the Catholic priest. The judgment
against him was reversed, and the Supreme Court of Missouri was directed to order the inferior
court by which he was tried to set him at liberty.

Immediately following the case of Cummings that of Ex-parte Garland was argued, involving the
validity of the iron-clad oath, as it was termed, prescribed for attorneys and counsellors-at-law
by the act of Congress of January 24th, 1865. Mr. A.H. Garland, now United States Senator from
Arkansas, had been a member of the Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States before the
civil war. When Arkansas passed her ordinance of secession and joined the Confederate States,
he went with her, and was one of her representatives in the Congress of the Confederacy. In
July, 1865, he received from the President a full pardon for all offences committed by his
participation, direct or implied, in the rebellion. At the following term of the Court he produced
his pardon and asked permission to continue to practice as an attorney and counsellor without
taking the oath required by the act of Congress, and the rule of the Court made in conformity
with it, which he was unable to take by reason of the offices he had held under the Confederate
government. The application was argued by Mr. Matthew H. Carpenter, of Wisconsin, and Mr. Reverdy
Johnson, of Maryland, for the petitioner--Mr. Garland and Mr. Marr, another applicant for admission,
who had participated in the rebellion, filing printed arguments--and by Mr. Speed, of Kentucky,
and Mr. Henry Stanbery, the Attorney-General, on the other side. The whole subject of expurgatory
oaths was discussed, and all that could be said on either side was fully and elaborately presented.

The Court in its decision followed the reasoning of the Cummings case and held the law invalid,
as applied to the exercise of the petitioner's right to practice his profession; that such
right was not a mere indulgence, a matter of grace and favor, revocable at the pleasure of
the Court, or at the command of the legislature; but was a right of which the petitioner could
be deprived only by the judgment of the Court for moral or professional delinquency. The Court
also held that the pardon of the petitioner released him from all penalties and disabilities
attached to the offence of treason committed by his participation in the rebellion, and that,
so far as that offence was concerned, he was placed beyond the reach of punishment of any kind.
But to exclude him by reason of that offence--that is, by requiring him to take an oath that
he had never committed it--was to enforce a punishment for it notwithstanding the pardon; and
that it was not within the constitutional power of Congress thus to inflict punishment beyond
the reach of executive clemency.

I had the honor to deliver the opinion of the Court in these cases--the Cummings case and the
Garland case. At the present day both opinions are generally admitted to be sound, but when
announced they were received by a portion of the Northern Press with apparent astonishment
and undisguised condemnation. It is difficult to appreciate at this day the fierceness with
which the majority of the Court was assailed. That majority consisted of Justices Wayne, Nelson,
Grier, Clifford, and myself. I was particularly taken to task, however, as it was supposed--at
least I can only so infer from the tone of the Press--that because I had been appointed by
Mr. Lincoln, I was under some sort of moral obligation to support all the measures taken by
the States or by Congress during the war. The following, respecting the opinion in the Garland
case, from the editor of the Daily Chronicle, of Washington, to the Press, of Philadelphia,
under date of January 16, 1867, is moderate in its language compared with what appeared in
many other journals:

    "Dred Scott Number Three has just been enacted in the Supreme
    Court of the United States, Justice Field, of California,
    taking the leading part as the representative of the majority
    decision against the constitutionality of the iron-clad
    test-oath, to prevent traitors from practicing before that
    high tribunal. I understand it takes the ground that, as the
    law is a living or profession, the oath cannot be insisted
    upon to take that living away, and that the President's pardon
    restores all such rights. The country has been repeatedly
    admonished that such a decision would be made about this time;
    nevertheless, a very considerable sensation was created when
    it was officially enunciated. All these movements are but
    preparations for a counter-revolution in the interest of
    slavery and treason." ---- "I learn that the opinion of Justice
    Field against the test-oath, like that against military trials
    in time of war, goes outside of the immediate case in issue,
    and indulges in a fierce onslaught upon test-oaths
    in general. If so, it will only add another reason for such a
    re-organization as will prevent the judges in the last resort
    from becoming the mere agents of party, or the mere defenders
    of rebellion. The adage constantly quoted, yet never out of
    fashion, that 'Whom the Gods wish to destroy they first make
    mad,' is having a pointed illustration in these successive
    judicial assaults upon the rights of the people. Although
    the Supreme Judges hold for life, there is at once precedent,
    necessity, and law for such a change in the present system
    as will in a short time make it a fearless interpreter of
    republican institutions, instead of the defender and apologist
    of treason."

The decisions were announced on the 14th of January, 1867. On the 22d of the month, Mr. Boutwell,
from Massachusetts, introduced a bill into the House far more stringent in its provisions than
the act of Congress just declared invalid. It was a pitiable exhibition of hate and vengeance
against all persons who had been engaged, directly or indirectly, in the rebellion. It declared
that no person who had been thus engaged should be permitted to act as an attorney and counsellor
in any courts of the United States; and made it the duty of the judges, when it was suggested
in open court, or when they had reason to believe that any person was thus debarred, to enquire
and ascertain whether he had been so engaged, and if the court was of opinion that such was
the fact, he was to be excluded. The court was thus, upon the suggestion of any one, to be
turned into a tribunal for the summary trial of the accused without the ordinary safeguards
for the protection of his rights. In introducing it Mr. Boutwell, referring to the decision
of the Court, said that--

    "If there be five judges upon the bench of the highest
    tribunal who have not that respect for themselves to enact
    rules, and to enforce proper regulations, by which they will
    protect themselves from the contamination of conspirators and
    traitors against the government of the country, then the time
    has already arrived when the legislative department of the
    government should exercise its power to declare who shall be
    officers of the government in the administration of the law in
    the courts of the Union; and this bill is for that purpose."

And he called for the previous question upon it. In subsequently advocating its passage, he said:

    "I say here upon my responsibility, with reference to the
    recent decision of the Supreme Court, that it is an offence
    to the dignity and respectability of the nation that this
    tribunal, under the general authority vested in it under
    the Constitution and laws, does not protect itself from the
    contamination of rebels and traitors, until the rebellion
    itself shall be suppressed and those men shall be restored to
    their former rights as citizens of the country."

This language was used in 1867, and the last gun of the war had been fired in May, 1865. It
showed the irritation of violent partisans of the North against the Court because it gave no
sanction to their vindictive and proscriptive measures.

The bill was passed, under a suspension of the rules, by a vote of 111 to 40.[1]

The Reconstruction Acts, so-called--that is, "An act to provide for the more efficient government
of the rebel States," of March 2d, 1867, and an act of the 23d of the same month, supplementary
to the former--were at once attacked, as may well be supposed, as invalid, unconstitutional,
and arbitrary measures of the government; and various steps were taken at an early day to bring
them to the test of judicial examination and arrest their enforcement. Those acts divided the
late insurgent States, except Tennessee, into five military districts, and placed them under
military control to be exercised until constitutions, containing various provisions stated,
were adopted and approved by Congress, and the States declared to be entitled to representation
in that body. In the month of April following the State of Georgia filed a bill in the Supreme
Court, invoking the exercise of its original jurisdiction, against Stanton, Secretary of War,
Grant, General of the Army, and Pope, Major-General, assigned to the command of the Third Military
District, consisting of the States of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama; to restrain those officers
from carrying into effect the provisions of those acts. The bill set forth the existence of
the State of Georgia as one of the States of the Union; the civil war in which she, with other
States forming the Confederate States, had been engaged with the government of the United States;
the surrender of the Confederate armies in 1865, and her submission afterwards to the Constitution
and laws of the Union; the withdrawal of the military government from Georgia by the President
as Commander-in-Chief of the Army of the United States; the re-organization of the civil government
of the State under his direction and with his sanction; and that the government thus re-organized
was in the full possession and enjoyment of all the rights and privileges, executive, legislative,
and judicial, belonging to a State in the Union under the Constitution, with the exception
of a representation in the Senate and House of Representatives. The bill alleged that the acts
were designed to overthrow and annul the existing government of the State, and to erect another
and a different government in its place, unauthorized by the Constitution and in defiance of
its guarantees; that the defendants, acting under orders of the President, were about to set
in motion a portion of the army to take military possession of the State, subvert her government,
and subject her people to military rule. The presentation of this bill and the argument on
the motion of the Attorney-General to dismiss it produced a good deal of hostile comment against
the Judges, which did not end when the motion was granted. It was held that the bill called
for judgment upon a political question, which the Court had no jurisdiction to entertain.[2]

Soon afterwards the validity of the Reconstruction Acts was again presented in the celebrated
McArdle case, and in such a form that the decision of the question could not well be avoided.
In November, 1867, McArdle had been arrested and held in custody by a military commission organized
in Mississippi under the Reconstruction Acts, for trial upon charges of (1) disturbance of
the public peace; (2) inciting to insurrection, disorder, and violence; (3) libel; and (4)
impeding reconstruction. He thereupon applied to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Mississippi for a writ of habeas corpus, in order that he might be discharged
from his alleged illegal imprisonment. The writ was accordingly issued, but on the return of
the officer showing the authority under which the petitioner was held, he was ordered to be
remanded. From that judgment he appealed to the Supreme Court. Of course, if the Reconstruction
Acts were invalid, the petitioner could not be held, and he was entitled to his discharge.
The case excited great interest throughout the country. Judge Sharkey and Robert J. Walker,
of Mississippi, David Dudley Field and Charles O'Connor, of New York, and Jeremiah S. Black,
of Pennsylvania, appeared for the appellant; and Matthew H. Carpenter, of Wisconsin, Lyman
Trumbull, of Illinois, and Henry Stanbery, the Attorney-General, appeared for the other side.
The hearing of it occupied four days, and seldom has it been my fortune during my judicial
life, now (1877) of nearly twenty years, to listen to arguments equal in learning, ability,
and eloquence. The whole subject was exhausted. As the arguments were widely published in the
public journals, and read throughout the country, they produced a profound effect. The impression
was general that the Reconstruction Acts could not be sustained; that they were revolutionary
and destructive of a republican form of government in the States, which the Constitution required
the Federal government to guarantee. I speak now merely of the general impression. I say nothing
of the fact, as the Court never expressed its opinion in judgment. The argument was had on
the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 9th of March, 1868, and it ought to have been decided in regular course
of proceedings when it was reached on the second subsequent consultation day, the 21st. The
Judges had all formed their conclusions, and no excuse was urged that more time was wanted
for examination. In the meantime an act was quietly introduced into the House, and passed,
repealing so much of the law of February 5th, 1867, as authorized an appeal to the Supreme
Court from the judgment of the Circuit Court on writs of habeas corpus, or the exercise of
jurisdiction on appeals already taken. The President vetoed the bill, but Congress passed it
over his veto, and it became a law on the 27th of the month.[3] Whilst it was pending in Congress
the attention of the Judges was called to it, and in consultation on the 21st they postponed
the decision of the case until it should be disposed of. It was then that Mr. Justice Grier
wrote the following protest, which he afterwards read in Court:

    IN RE   }
    MCARDLE.}      PROTEST OF MR. JUSTICE GEIER.

    This case was fully argued in the beginning of this month. It
    is a case that involves the liberty and rights not only of the
    appellant, but of millions of our fellow-citizens. The country
    and the parties had a right to expect that it would receive
    the immediate and solemn attention of this Court. By the
    postponement of the case we shall subject ourselves, whether
    justly or unjustly, to the imputation that we have evaded the
    performance of a duty imposed on us by the Constitution, and
    waited for legislation to interpose to supersede our action
    and relieve us from our responsibility. I am not willing to be
    a partaker either of the eulogy or opprobrium that may follow;

    and can only say:

    "Pudet haec opprobria nobis,
    Et dici potuisse; et non potuisse repelli."[4]

    R.C. GRIER.

    I am of the same opinion with my brother Grier, and unite in
    his protest.

    FIELD, J.

After the passage of the repealing act, the case was continued; and at the ensuing term the
appeal was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.--(7 Wall., 506.)

The record had been filed early in the term, and, as the case involved the liberty of the citizen,
it was advanced on the calendar on motion of the appellant. From that time until its final
disposition the Judges were subjected to close observation, and most of them to unfriendly
comment. Their every action and word were watched and canvassed as though national interests
depended upon them. I was myself the subject of a most extraordinary exhibition of feeling
on the part of members of the lower house of Congress, the immediate cause of which was a circumstance
calculated to provoke merriment. Towards the close of January, 1868, I was invited to a dinner
given by Mr. Samuel Ward to the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. McCullough. It was understood
that the dinner was to be one of unusual excellence, and that gentlemen of distinction in Congress
would be present. As some of the invited guests desired to go to New York on the same evening,
the hour was fixed at five. A distinguished party assembled at that time at the rooms of Welcker,
a noted restaurateur in Washington. Our host, Mr. Ward, was a character deserving of special
notice. He had been a member of the noted firm of bankers, Prime, Ward & King, of New York;
and afterwards represented our government in Brazil. He was an accomplished linguist, familiar
with several languages, ancient and modern. He was a profound mathematician, and had read,
without the assistance of Bowditch's translation, Laplace's celebrated work, the "Mécanique
Céleste." He passed most of his time during the sessions of Congress in Washington, looking
after the interests of bankers and others in New York, as they might be affected by pending
legislation. Though called "King of the Lobby," he had little of the character of the lobbyist.
He was a gentleman in manners and education, and as such he always drew the company of gentlemen
to his entertainments. On the occasion mentioned, some of the brightest spirits of Congress
were present. As we took our seats at the table I noticed on the menu a choice collection of
wines, Johannisberg among others. The dinner was sumptuous and admirably served. Our host saw
that the appropriate wine accompanied the successive courses. As the dinner progressed, and
the wine circulated, the wit of the guests sparkled. Story and anecdote, laughter and mirth
abounded, and each guest seemed joyous and happy. At about eight song had been added to other
manifestations of pleasure. I then concluded that I had better retire. So I said to my host,
that if he would excuse me, I would seek the open air; and I left.

Just at this moment Mr. Rodman M. Price, formerly Governor of New Jersey, made his appearance
and exclaimed, "How is this? I was invited to dinner at eight"--producing his card of invitation.
"Look again," said Ward, "and you will see that your eight is a five," And so it was, "But
never mind," said Ward; "the dinner is not over. Judge Field has just left. Take his seat."
And so Price took my place. He had been travelling in the Southern States, and had been an
observer of the proceedings of various State conventions then in session to frame constitutions
under the Reconstruction Acts, which he termed "Congo Conventions." To the amusement of the
party he gave an account of some curious scenes he had witnessed in these conventions; and
wound up one or two of his stories by expressing his opinion that the whole reconstruction
measures would soon be "smashed up" and sent to "kingdom come" by the Supreme Court. The loud
mirth and the singing attracted the attention of news-hunters for the Press--item gatherers
in the rooms below. Unfortunately one of these gentlemen looked into the banquet-hall just
as Price had predicted the fate of the reconstruction measures at the hands of the Supreme
Court. He instantly smelt news, and enquired of one of the waiters the name of the gentleman
who had thus proclaimed the action of the Court. The waiter quietly approached the seat of
the Governor, and, whilst he was looking in another direction, abstracted the card near his
plate which bore my name. Here was, indeed, a grand item for a sensational paragraph. Straight
way the newsgatherer communicated it to a newspaper in Washington, and it appeared under an
editorial notice. It was also telegraphed to a paper in Baltimore. But it was too good to be
lost in the columns of a newspaper. Mr. Scofield, a member of Congress from Pennsylvania, on
the 30th of January, 1868, asked and obtained unanimous consent of the House to present the
following preamble and resolution:

    "Whereas it is editorially stated in the Evening Express,
    a newspaper published in this city, on the afternoon of
    Wednesday, January 29, as follows: 'At a private gathering of
    gentlemen of both political parties, one of the Justices
    of the Supreme Court spoke very freely concerning the
    reconstruction measures of Congress, and declared in the most
    positive terms that all those laws were unconstitutional, and
    that the Court would be sure to pronounce them so. Some of
    his friends near him suggested that it was quite indiscreet to
    speak so positively; when he at once repeated his views in a
    more emphatic manner; 'and whereas several cases under said
    reconstruction measures are now pending in the Supreme Court:
    Therefore, be it--

    "Resolved, That the Committee on the Judiciary be directed to
    enquire into the truth of the declarations therein contained,
    and report whether the facts as ascertained constitute such a
    misdemeanor in office as to require this House to present to
    the Senate articles of impeachment against said Justice of the
    Supreme Court; and that the committee have power to send for
    persons and papers, and have leave to report at any time."

An excited debate at once sprung up in the House, and in the course of it I was stated to be
the offending Justice referred to. Thereupon the members for California vouched for my loyalty
during the war. Other members wished to know whether an anonymous article in a newspaper was
to be considered sufficient evidence to authorize a committee of the House to enquire into
the private conversation of members of the Supreme Court. The mover of the resolution, Mr.
Scofield, declared that he knew nothing of the truth of the statement in the paper, but deemed
it sufficient authority for his action, and moved the previous question on the resolution.
Several of the members protested against the resolution, declaring that it was unworthy of
the House to direct an investigation into the conduct of a judicial officer upon a mere newspaper
statement. But it was of no use. The resolution was adopted by a vote of 97 to 57--34 not voting.
Some members, indeed, voted for its passage, stating that it was due to myself that I should
be vindicated from the charge implied in the debate; the force of which reason I have never
been able to appreciate.

The resolution was evidently intended to intimidate me, and to act as a warning to all the
Judges as to what they might expect if they presumed to question the wisdom or validity of
the reconstruction measures of Congress. What little effect it had on me my subsequent course
in the McArdle case probably showed to the House. I had only one feeling for the movement--that
of profound contempt; and I believe that a similar feeling was entertained by every right-thinking
person having any knowledge of the proceeding.

The facts of the case soon became generally known, and created a good deal of merriment in
Washington. But all through the country the wildest stories were circulated. Communications
of a sensational character relating to the matter were published in the leading journals. Here
is one which appeared in the New York Evening Post from its correspondent:

    "It is the intention of the committee to examine the matter
    thoroughly, and in view of this a large number of witnesses
    have been summoned to appear on Friday.

    "The friends of Justice Field are endeavoring to hush the
    matter up, and, if possible, to avert an investigation; but
    in this they will be disappointed, for the members of the
    Judiciary Committee express themselves firmly determined to
    sift the case, and will not hesitate to report articles
    of impeachment against Justice Field if the statements are
    proved."

Other papers called for the strictest scrutiny and the presentation of articles of impeachment,
representing that I was terribly frightened by the threatened exposure. So for some months
I was amused reading about my supposed terrible excitement in anticipation of a threatened
removal from office. But, as soon as the author of the objectionable observations was ascertained,
the ridiculous nature of the subsequent proceedings became manifest. The Chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, Mr. Wilson, of Iowa, occupied a seat next to me at Mr. Ward's dinner, and knew,
of course, that, so far as I was concerned, the whole story was without foundation. And so
he said to his associates on the Judiciary Comnfittee.

Near the close of the session--on June 18th, 1868--the committee were discharged from the further
consideration of the resolution, and it was laid on the table--a proceeding which was equivalent
to its indefinite postponement.

The amusing mistake which gave rise to this episode in the lower house of Congress would be
unworthy of the notice I have taken of it, except that it illustrates the virulent and vindictive
spirit which occasionally burst forth for some time after the close of the war, and which,
it is to be greatly regretted, is not yet wholly extinguished.

[1] Congressional Globe, 39th Congress, 2d Session, Part I.,
    pp. 646-649.

    When the bill reached the Senate it was referred to the
    Judiciary Committee, and by them to a sub-committee of which
    Mr. Stewart, Senator from Nevada, was chairman. He retained it
    until late in the session, and upon his advice, the committee
    then recommended its indefinite postponement. The bill was
    thus disposed of.

[2] 6th Wallace, 50.

[3] 15 Stats. at Large, 44.

[4] "It fills us with shame that these reproaches can be uttered,
    and cannot be repelled." The words are found in Ovid's
    Metamorphoses, Book I., lines 758-9. In some editions the last
    word is printed refelli.

THE MOULIN VEXATION.

Soon after my appointment to the Bench of the U.S. Supreme Court, I had a somewhat remarkable
experience with a Frenchman by the name of Alfred Moulin. It seems that this man, sometime
in the year 1854 had shipped several sacks of onions and potatoes on one of the mail steamers,
from San Francisco to Panama. During the voyage the ship's store of fresh provisions ran out,
and the captain appropriated the vegetables, and out of this appropriation originated a long
and bitter prosecution, or rather persecution, on the part of Moulin, who proved to be not
only one of the most malignant, but one of the most persevering and energetic men I have ever
known.

Upon the return of the steamer from Panama to San Francisco, Moulin presented himself at the
steamship company's office, and complained, as he properly might, of the appropriation of his
property, and demanded compensation. The company admitted his claim and expressed a willingness
to make him full compensation; but when it came to an adjustment of it, Moulin preferred one
so extravagant that it could not be listened to. The property at the very most was not worth
more than one or two hundred dollars, but Moulin demanded thousands; and when this was refused,
he threatened Messrs. Forbes and Babcock, the agents of the company, with personal violence.
These threats he repeated from time to time for two or three years, until at length becoming
annoyed and alarmed by his fierce manner, they applied to the police court and had him bound
over to keep the peace.

Notwithstanding he was thus put upon his good behavior, Moulin kept continually making his
appearance and reiterating his demands at the steamship company's office. Forbes and Babcock
repeatedly told him to go to a lawyer and commence suit for his claim; but Moulin refused to
do so, saying that he could attend to his own business as well as, and he thought better than,
any lawyer. At length, to get rid of further annoyance, they told him he had better go to New
York and see Mr. Aspinwall, the owner of the vessel, about the matter; and, to enable him to
do so, gave him a free ticket over the entire route from San Francisco to that city.

Upon arriving in New York, Moulin presented himself to Mr. Aspinwall and asked that his claim
should be allowed. Mr. Aspinwall said that he knew nothing about his claim and that he did
not want to be bothered with it. Moulin still insisted, and Mr. Aspinwall told him to go away.
Moulin thereupon became excited, said he was determined to be paid, and that he would not be
put off. He thereupon commenced a regular system of annoyance. When Mr. Aspinwall started to
go home from his office, Moulin walked by his side along the street. When Aspinwall got into
an omnibus, Moulin got in also; when Aspinwall got out, Moulin got out too. On the following
morning, when Aspinwall left his residence to go to his office, Moulin was on hand, and taking
his place, marched along by his side as before. If Aspinwall hailed an omnibus and got in,
Moulin got in at the same time. If Aspinwall got out and hailed a private carriage, Moulin
got out and hailed another carriage, and ordered the driver to keep close to Mr. Aspinwall's
carriage. In fact, wherever Aspinwall went Moulin went also, and it seemed as if nothing could
tire him out or deter him from his purpose.

At length Mr. Aspinwall, who had become nervous from the man's actions, exclaimed, "My God,
this man is crazy; he will kill me;" and calling him into the office, asked him what he wanted
in thus following and persecuting him. Moulin answered that he wanted pay for his onions and
potatoes. Aspinwall replied, "But I don't know anything about your onions and potatoes; how
should I? Go back to my agents in California, and they will do what is right. I will direct
them to do so." "But," said Moulin, "I have no ticket to go to California;" and thereupon Aspinwall
gave him a free ticket back to San Francisco. Moulin departed, and in due course of time again
presented himself to Forbes and Babcock, in San Francisco. At the re-appearance of the man,
they were more annoyed than ever; but finally managed to induce him to commence a suit in the
United States District Court. When the case was called, by an understanding between his lawyer
and the lawyer of the steamship company, judgment was allowed to be entered in Moulin's favor
for four hundred and three dollars and a half, besides costs. The amount thus awarded greatly
exceeded the actual value of the onions and potatoes appropriated. It was thought by the defendant
that on the payment of so large a sum, the whole matter would be ended. But Moulin was very
far from being satisfied. He insisted that the judgment ought to have been for three thousand
and nine hundred dollars, besides interest, swelling the amount to over six thousand dollars,
and applied to Judge Hoffman of the District Court to set it aside. But as the judgment had
been rendered for the full value of the property taken, as admitted by his lawyer, the Judge
declined to interfere. This was in 1861.

