So that was how the burning of the Salvation Army Training School occurred.

The significant fact in the affair was that there had been sleeping in that building directly
over the place where the fire started several of the lassies who were to sail for France in
a day or two with the largest party of war workers that had yet been sent out. Their trunks
were packed, and they were all ready to go. The object was all too evident.

There was also proof that the intention had been to destroy as well the great fireproof Salvation
Army National Headquarters building adjoining the Training School.

A few days later a detective taking lunch in a small German restaurant on a side street overheard
a conversation:

"Well, if we can't burn them out we'll blow up the building, and get that damn Commander, anyhow!"

Yet when this was told her the Commander declined the bodyguard offered her by the Civic Authorities,
to go with her even to her country home and protect her while the war lasted! She is naturally
a soldier.

The Commander had stayed late at the Headquarters one evening to finish some important bit
of work, and had given orders that she should not be interrupted. The great building was almost
empty save for the night watchman, the elevator man, and one or two others.

She was hard at work when her secretary appeared with an air of reluctance to tell her that
the elevator man said there were three ladies waiting downstairs to see her on some very important
business. He had told them that she could not be disturbed but they insisted that they must
see her, that she would wish it if she knew their business. He had come up to find out what
he should answer them.

The Commander said she knew nothing about them and could not be interrupted now. They must
be told to come again the next day.

The elevator man returned in a few minutes to say that the ladies insisted, and said they had
a great gift for the Salvation Army, but must see the Commander at once and alone or the gift
would be lost.

Quickly interested the Commander gave orders that they should be brought up to her office,
but just as they were about to enter, the secretary came in again with great excitement, begging
that she would not see the visitors, as one of the men from downstairs had 'phoned up to her
that he did not like the appearance of the strangers; they seemed to be trying to talk in high
strained voices, and they had very large feet. Maybe they were not women at all.

The Commander laughed at the idea, but finally yielded when another of her staff entered and
begged her not to see strangers alone so late at night; and the callers were informed that
they would have to return in the morning if they wished an interview.

Immediately they became anything but ladylike in their manner, declaring that the Salvation
Army did not deserve a gift and should have nothing from them. The elevator man's suspicions
were aroused. The ladies were attired in long automobile cloaks, and close caps with large
veils, and he studied them carefully as he carried them down to the street floor once more,
following them to the outer door. He was surprised to find that no automobile awaited them
outside. As they turned to walk down the street, he was sure he caught a glimpse of a trouser
leg from beneath one of the long cloaks, and with a stride he covered the space between the
door and his elevator where was a telephone, and called up the police station. In a few moments
more the three "ladies" found themselves in custody, and proved to be three men well armed.

But when the Commander was told the truth about them she surprisingly said: "I'm sorry I didn't
see them. I'm sure they would have done me no harm and I might have done them some good."

But if she is courageous, she is also wise as a serpent, and knows when to keep her own counsel.

During the early days of the war when there were many important matters to be decided and the
Commander was needed everywhere, she came straight from a conference in Washington to a large
hotel in one of the great western cities where she had an appointment to speak that night.
At the revolving door of the hotel stood a portly servitor in house uniform who was most kind
and noticeably attentive to her whenever she entered or went out, and was constantly giving
her some pointed little attention to draw her notice. Finally, she stopped for a moment to
thank him, and he immediately became most flattering, telling her he knew all about the Salvation
Army, that he had a brother in its ranks, was deeply interested in their work in France, and
most proud of what they were doing. He told her he had lived in Washington and said he supposed
she often went there. She replied pleasantly that she had but just come from there, but some
keen intuition began to warn this wise-hearted woman and when the next question, though spoken
most casually, was: "Where are the Salvation Army workers now in France?" she replied evasively:

"Oh, wherever they are most needed," and passed on with a friend.

"I believe that man is a spy!" she said to her friend with conviction in her voice.

"Nonsense!" the friend replied; "you are growing nervous. That man has been in this hotel for
several years."

But that very night the man, with five others, was arrested, and proved to be a spy hunting
information about the location of the American troops in France.

Now these incidents do not belong in just this spot in the book, but they are placed here of
intention that the reader may have a certain viewpoint from which to take the story. For well
does the world of evil realize what a strong force of opponents to their dark deeds is found
in this great Christian organization. Sometimes one is able the better to judge a man, his
character and strength, when one knows who are his enemies.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the beginning of the dark days of 1917.

The Commander sat in her quiet office, that office through which, except on occasions like
this when she locked the doors for a few minutes' special work, there marched an unbroken procession
of men and affairs, affecting both souls and nations.

Before her on the broad desk lay the notes of a new address which she was preparing to deliver
that evening, but her eyes were looking out of the wide window, across the clustering roofs
of the great city to the white horizon line, and afar over the great water to the terrible
scene of the Strife of Nations.

For a long time her thoughts had been turning that way, for she had many beloved comrades in
that fight, both warring and ministering to the fighters, and she had often longed to go herself,
had not her work held her here. But now at last the call had come! America had entered the
great war, and in a few days her sons would be marching from all over the land and embarking
for over the seas to fling their young lives into that inferno; and behind them would stalk,
as always in the wake of War, Pain and Sorrow and Sin! Especially Sin. She shuddered as she
thought of it all. The many subtle temptations to one who is lonely and in a foreign land.

Her eyes left the far horizon and hovered over the huddling roofs that represented so many
hundreds of thousands of homes. So many mothers to give up their sons; so many wives to be
bereft; so many men and boys to be sent forth to suffer and be tried; so many hearts already
overburdened to be bowed beneath a heavier load! Oh, her people! Her beloved people, whose
sorrows and burdens and sins she bore in her heart and carried to the feet of the Master every
day! And now this war!

And those young men, hardly more than children, some of them! With her quick insight and deep
knowledge of the world, she visualized the way of fire down which they must walk, and her soul
was stricken with the thought of it! It was her work and the work of her chosen Army to help
and save, but what could she do in such a momentous crisis as this? She had no money for new
work. Opportunities had opened up so fast. The Treasury was already overtaxed with the needs
on this side of the water. There were enterprises started that could not be given up without
losing precious souls who were on the way toward becoming redeemed men and women, fit citizens
of this world and the next. There was no surplus, ever! The multifarious efforts to meet the
needs of the poorest of the cities' poor, alone, kept everyone on the strain. There seemed
no possibility of doing more. Besides, how could they spare the workers to meet the new demand
without taking them from places where they were greatly needed at home? And other perplexities
darkened the way. There were those sitting in high places of authority who had strongly advised
the Salvation Army to remain at home and go on with their street meetings, telling them that
the battlefield was no place for them, they would only be in the way. They were not adapted
to a thing like war. But well she knew the capacity of the Salvation Army to adapt itself to
whatever need or circumstance presented. The same standard they had borne into the most wretched
places of earth in times of peace would do in times of war.

Out there across the waters the Salvation Brothers and Sisters were ministering to the British
armies at the front, and now that the American army was going, too, duty seemed very clear;
the call was most imperative!

The written pages on her desk loudly demanded attention and the Commander tried to bring her
thoughts back to them once more, but again and again the call sounded in her heart.

She lifted her eyes to the wall across the room from her desk where hung the life-like portrait
of her Christian-Warrior father, the grand old keen-eyed, wise-hearted General, founder of
the movement. Like her father she knew they must go. There was no question about it. No hindrance
should stop them. They MUST GO! The warrior blood ran in her veins. In this the world's greatest
calamity they must fulfill the mission for which he lived and died.

"Go!" Those pictured eyes seemed to speak to her, just as they used to command her when he
was here: "You must go and bear the standard of the Cross to the front. Those boys are going
over there, many of them to die, and some are telling them that if they make the supreme sacrifice
in this their country's hour of need it will be all right with them when they go into the world
beyond. But when they get over there under shell fire they will know that it is not so, and
they will need Christ, the only atonement for sin. You must go and take the Christ to them."

Then the Commander bowed her head, accepting the commission; and there in the quiet room perhaps
the Master Himself stood beside her and gave her his charge--just as she would later charge
those whom she would send across the water--telling her that He was depending upon the Salvation
Army to bear His standard to the war.

Perhaps it was at this same high conference with her Lord that she settled it in her heart
that Lieutenant-Colonel William S. Barker was to be the pioneer to blaze the way for the work
in France.

However that may be he was an out-and-out Salvationist, of long and varied experience. He was
chosen equally for his proved consecration to service, for his unselfishness, for his exceptional
and remarkable natural courage by which he was afraid of nothing, and for his unwavering persistence
in plans once made in spite of all difficulties. The Commander once said of him: "If you want
to see him at his best you must put him face to face with a stone wall and tell him he must
get on the other side of it. No matter what the cost or toil, whether hated or loved, he would
get there!"

Thus carefully, prayerfully, were each one of the other workers selected; each new selection
born from the struggle of her soul in prayer to God that there might be no mistakes, no unwise
choices, no messengers sent forth who went for their own ends and not for the glory of God.
Here lies the secret which makes the world wonder to-day why the Salvation Army workers are
called "the real thing" by the soldiers. They were hand-picked by their leader on the mount,
face to face with God.

She took no casual comer, even with offers of money to back them, and there were some of immense
wealth who pleaded to be of the little band. She sent only those whom she knew and had tried.
Many of them had been born and reared in the Salvation Army, with Christlike fathers and mothers
who had made their homes a little piece of heaven below. All of them were consecrated, and
none went without the urgent answering call in their own hearts.

It was early in June, 1917, when Colonel Barker sailed to France with his commission to look
the field over and report upon any and every opportunity for the Salvation Army to serve the
American troops.

In order to pave his way before reaching France, Colonel Barker secured a letter of introduction
from Secretary-to-the-President Tumulty, to the American Ambassador in France, Honorable William
G. Sharp.

In connection with this letter a curious and interesting incident occurred. When Colonel Barker
entered the Secretary's office, he noticed him sitting at the other end of the room talking
with a gentleman. He was about to take a seat near the door when Mr. Tumulty beckoned to him
to come to the desk. When he was seated, without looking directly at the other gentleman, the
Colonel began to state his mission to Mr. Tumulty. Before he had finished the stranger spoke
up to Mr. Tumulty: "Give the Colonel what he wants and make it a good one!" And lo! he was
not a stranger, but a man whose reform had made no small sensation in New York circles several
years before, a former attorney who through his wicked life had been despaired of and forsaken
by his wealthy relatives, who had sunk to the lowest depths of sin and poverty and been rescued
by the Salvation Army.

Continuing to Mr. Tumulty, he said: "You know what the Salvation Army has done for me; now
do what you can for the Salvation Army."

Mr. Tumulty gave him a most kind letter of introduction to the American Ambassador.

On his arrival in Liverpool Colonel Barker availed himself of the opportunity to see the very
splendid work being done by the Salvation Army with the British troops, both in France and
in England, visiting many Salvation Army huts and hostels. He also put the Commander's plans
for France before General Bramwell Booth in London.

As early as possible Colonel Barker presented his letter of introduction to the American Ambassador,
who in turn provided him with a letter of introduction to General Pershing which insured a
cordial reception by him. Mr. Sharp informed Colonel Barker that he understood the policy of
the American army was to grant a monopoly of all welfare work to the Y.M.C.A. He feared the
Salvation Army would not be welcome, but assured him that anything he could properly do to
assist the Salvation Army would be most gladly done. In this connection he stated that he had
known of and been interested in the work of the Salvation Army for many years, that several
men of his acquaintance had been converted through their activities and been reformed from
dissolute, worthless characters to kind husbands and fathers and good business men; and that
he believed in the Salvation Army work as a consequence.

On many occasions during the subsequent months, Mr. Sharp was never too busy to see the Salvation
Army representatives, and has rendered valuable assistance in facilitating the forwarding of
additional workers by his influence with the State Department.

It appeared that among military officers a kind feeling existed toward the Salvation Army,
though it was generally thought that there was no opening for their service. Their conception
of the Salvation Army was that of street corner meetings and public charity. The officers at
that time could not see that the soldiers needed charity or that they would be interested in
religion. They could see how a reading-room, game-room and entertainments might be helpful,
but anything further than that they did not consider necessary.

Colonel Barker presented his letter of introduction to General Pershing, and on behalf of Commander
Booth offered the services of the Salvation Army in any form which might be desired.

General Pershing, who received the Colonel with exceptional cordiality, suggested that he go
out to the camps, look the field over, and report to him. Calling in his chief of staff he
gave instructions that a side car should be placed at Colonel Barker's disposal to go out to
the camps; and also that a letter of introduction to the General commanding the First Division
should be given to him, asking that everything should be done to help him.

The first destination was Gondrecourt, where the First Division Headquarters was established.

II.

The Gondrecourt Area

The advance guard of the American Expeditionary Forces had landed in France, and other detachments
were arriving almost daily. They were received by the French with open arms and a big parade
as soon as they landed. Flowers were tossed in their path and garlands were flung about them.
They were lauded and praised on every hand. On the crest of this wave of enthusiasm they could
have swept joyously into battle and never lost their smiles.

But instead of going to the front at once they were billeted in little French villages and
introduced to French rain and French mud.

When one discovers that the houses are built of stone, stuck together mainly by this mud of
the country, and remembers how many years they have stood, one gets a passing idea of the nature
of this mud about which the soldiers have written home so often. It is more like Portland cement
than anything else, and it is most penetrative and hard to get rid of; it gets in the hair,
down the neck, into the shoes and it sticks. If the soldier wears hip-boots in the trenches
he must take them off every little while and empty the mud out of them which somehow manages
to get into even hip-boots. It is said that one reason the soldiers were obliged to wear the
wrapped leggings was, not that they would keep the water out, but that they would strain the
mud and at least keep the feet comparatively clean.

There were sixteen of these camps at this time and probably twelve or thirteen thousand soldiers
were already established in them.

There was no great cantonment as at the camps on this side of the water, nor yet a city of
tents, as one might have expected. The forming of a camp meant the taking over of all available
buildings in the little French peasant villages. The space was measured up by the town mayor
and the battalion leader and the proper number of men assigned to each building. In this way
a single division covered a territory of about thirty kilometers. This system made a camp of
any size available in very short order and also fooled the Huns, who were on the lookout for
American camps.

