The ship Viola, bound for the port of Naples, lay at the wharf, the passengers were all hurrying
on board, the flags were flying, and all wore the joyous aspect of a vessel outward bound.
A carriage drawn by a pair of horses came down to the vessel. Mr. Hastings and Anna alighted,
and were followed by a servant, who took the safely cased portrait in his arms, and accompanied
them on board the ship. They soon met the mother of Flora, and Anna took the picture and presented
it to her, and promised to care for the rose buds which bloomed at Flora's grave. Mr. H received
from the gallant captain a promise to take special charge of the Italian widow, and her aged
father, and to care for the valued picture of Flora. Thanks and farewells closed the scene,
when Anna, with her father, returned home. There she found a note from Edgar, the artist, requesting
permission to call on Anna that evening. She wrote a reply, saying that a previous engagement
would forbid her complying with his request, at the same time enclosing a check for $200, saying,
"My father requests me to forward this check to you, in payment for the portrait of Flora Revere"

THE SAINT'S REST.

    We've no abiding city here:
      This may distress the worldling's mind,
    But should not cost the saint a tear,
      Who hopes a better rest to find.

    We've no abiding city here;
      We seek a city out of sight,
    Zion its name: the Lord is there:
      It shines with everlasting light.

    Hush, my soul, nor dare repine;
      The time my God appoints is best;
    While here to do his will be mine,
      And his to fix my time of rest.

A GOOD MOTHER.

Mrs. Savage was the eldest sister of Matthew Henry. When she was a child she had a great many
advantages for the improvement of her mind. When only seven years of age, she could translate
the Hebrew language, and when ten years old, she would write out her father's sermons. She
possessed a very amiable disposition, and was very kind and benevolent to all who needed the
comforts of life. She was a Christian, and when she became a mother she began the work of educating
her children herself. She had a large family of nine children, and as she had treasured up
in her memory many hymns and verses which she had learned when a child, she was able to teach
the same to her children. She was so kind and affectionate that every body loved her. Her children
took much pleasure in hearing their mother repeat to them the hymns and texts of Scripture
which she had learned.

Some children are very careless, and indifferent to their parents' advice; such ones will regret
it in their riper years. But Mrs. Savage's little boys and girls loved their mother, and were
very obedient to her commands. When evening came, before they retired to bed she would call
her little children around her (as you see in the picture,) and they would kneel down and say
their evening prayer. A pleasant sight, indeed, to see our dear children remembering their
Creator in the days of their youth. Mrs. S. was "useful, beloved, meek, humble, and charitable."
She lived a happy, cheerful life; she was an ornament to her Christian profession, a "good
mother." She died suddenly at the good old age of eighty-eight.

MOTHER'S LAST LESSON.

"Will you please teach me my verse, mamma, and then kiss me and bid me good night," said little
Roger, as he opened the door and peeped into the chamber of his sick mother. "I am very sleepy,
but no one has heard me say my prayers." Mrs. L. was very ill, and her friends believed her
to be dying. She sat propped up with pillows and struggling for breath, her eyes were growing
dim, and her strength was failing very fast. She was a widow, and little Roger was her only
darling child. He had been in the habit of coming into her room every night, and sitting in
her lap, or kneeling by her side, while she repeated some Scripture passages to him or related
a story of wise and good people. She always loved to hear Roger's verse and prayer.

"Hush! hush!" said the lady who was watching beside the couch. "Your dear mamma is too ill
to hear you to night." And as she said this, she came forward and laid her hand gently upon
his arm as if she would lead him from the room. "I cannot go to bed to night," said the little
boy, "without saying my prayers--I cannot."

Roger's dying mother heard his voice, and his sobs, and although she had been nearly insensible
to everything around her, yet she requested the attendant lady to bring the boy and lay him
near her side. Her request was granted, and the child's rosy cheek nestled in the bosom of
his dying mother.

"Now you may repeat this verse after me," said his mother, "and never forget it: 'When my father
and mother forsake me, the Lord will take me up.'" The child repeated it three times--then
he kissed the pale cheek of his mother, and went quietly to his little couch.

The next morning he sought as usual for his mother, but she was now cold and motionless. She
died soon after little Roger retired to his bed. That was her last lesson to her darling boy--he
did not forget it. He has grown to be a man and occupies a high post of honor in Massachusetts.
I never can look upon him without thinking about the faith so beautifully exhibited by his
dying mother. It was a good lesson.

THE GOLDEN CROWN.

A teacher once asked a child, "If you had a golden crown, what would you do with it?" The child
replied, "I would give it to my father to keep till I was a man." He asked another. "I would
buy a coach and horses with it," was the reply. He asked a third. "Oh," said the little girl
to whom he spoke, "I would do with it the same as the people in heaven do with their crowns.
I would cast it at the Saviour's feet."

EARLY AT SCHOOL.

One Sabbath evening a teacher was walking up and down in the porch before his house, in one
of the South Sea Islands. The sun was setting behind the waves of the ocean, and the labors
of the day were over. In that cool, quiet hour, the teacher was in prayer, asking a blessing
on his people, his scholars, and himself. As he heard the leaves of the Mimosa tree rustling,
he thought the breeze was springing up--and continued his walk. Again he heard the leaves rattle,
and he felt sure that it could not be the wind. So he pushed aside the long leafy branches
of the trees, and passed beneath. And what did he find there? Three little boys. Two were fast
asleep in each other's arms, but the third was awake.

"What are you doing there, my children?" asked the teacher. "We have come to sleep here," said
the boy. "And why do you sleep here; have you no home?" "Oh, yes," said the lad, "but if we
sleep here, we are sure to be ready when the school bell rings in the morning." "And do your
parents know about it?" "Mine do," said the lad, "but these little boys have no parents; they
are orphans."

You know the nights in the South Sea Islands are not cold and damp like ours, but as the teacher
thought a heavy rain would fall in the night, he roused the orphans, and led the three little
boys into the large porch of the house, where they might rest in safety. He was happy to find
that they were some of his scholars, and that they loved their school. What would these little
Islanders think if they could look from their distant homes into some of our schools and see
how many late comers there are!

THE PLUM BOYS.

Two boys were one day on their way from school, and as they were passing a cornfield, in which
there were some plum trees, full of nice ripe fruit, Henry said to Thomas, "Let us jump over
and get some plums. Nobody will see us, and we can scud along through the corn and come out
on the other side."

Thomas said, "I cannot. It is wrong to do so. Thomas had no reason to be afraid, so he stood
still, and the owner of the field, who had heard the conversation between the boys, told him
that he was very glad to see that he was not willing to be a thief. He then told Thomas that
he might step over the fence and help himself to as many plums as he wished. The boy was pleased
with the invitation, and soon filled his pockets with plums which he could call his own. Honesty
will always get its reward.

GEORGE AND HIS DOG.

    George had a large and noble dog.
      With hair as soft as silk;
    A few black spots upon his back,
      The rest as white as milk.

    And many a happy hour they had,
      In dull or shining weather;
    For, in the house, or in the fields,
      They always were together.

    The faithful creature knew full well
      When Master wished to ride;
    And he would kneel down on the grass,
      While Georgy climbed his side

    They both were playing in the field.
      When all at once they saw
    A little squirrel on a stump,
      With an acorn in his paw

    The dog still looked with eager eye,
      And George could plainly see,
    It was as much as he could do
      To let the squirrel be.

    The timid creature would have feared
      The dog so bold and strong,
    But he seemed to know the little boy
      Would let him do no wrong.

    He felt a spirit of pure love
      Around the gentle boy,
    As if good angels, hovering there,
      Watched over him in joy.

    And true it is that angels oft
      Good little George have led;
    They're with him in his happy play.
      They guard his little bed;

    They keep his heart so kind and true,
      They make his eye so mild,
    For dearly do the angels love,
      A gentle little child.

THE FIRST DOLLAR.

I will tell you an affecting story about a young lad by the name of Emerson Terry, who lived
in Hartford, Ct. He was very kind to the poor, and could never see the suffering of his fellow
beings without making an effort for their relief. Here is one instance of his kindness and
liberality.

While he resided in Bristol, his father, Dr. Terry, took little Emerson with him to ride into
Hartford that he might see the city. Emerson had one dollar, and it was the first dollar he
ever earned. He took the dollar with him, thinking to buy something with it in the city. While
they were riding along on the way, they overtook a poor fugitive slave seeking his freedom
in the North. Mr. Terry kindly took the wayfaring man into his carriage when the poor man related
to him his sufferings and poverty, and also his trust in God. Young Emerson's heart was touched,
when, of his own accord, he drew out his first and only dollar and gave it to the poor fugitive.
When he returned home he told his mother what he had done, with a satisfaction that indicated
his pleasure in being able to relieve a suffering stranger. How noble was this act. He felt
willing to forego the pleasure of spending his dollar for himself, for any pleasing toys, that
he might help a poor wanderer on the earth. When he was fifteen years of age, he was drowned
in the Connecticut River. He was beloved and respected by a large circle of acquaintance. He
was noted for his kind disposition, tender feelings, and lovely spirit. He sleeps in peace,
and we all hope to meet him in heaven.

THE SHEPHERD AND HIS BIBLE.

A poor shepherd, living among the Alps, the father of a large family, for whose wants he provided
with great difficulty, purchased an old Bible from a dealer in old cloths and furniture. On
Sunday evening, as he was turning over the leaves, he noticed several of them were pasted together.
He immediately began to separate the pasted leaves with great care. Inside of these leaves
he found carefully enclosed a bank bill of five hundred dollars. On the margin of one of the
pages was written these words: "I gathered together money with very great difficulty, but having
no natural heirs but those who have absolutely need of nothing, I make thee, whosoever shall
read this Bible, my natural heir."

We cannot promise our young friends that they will find money in the leaves of their Bibles,
but you may be assured that if you study its pages, and follow its precepts, you will find
wisdom, which is better than silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.

REVELATION OF GOD'S HOLY WORD.

    Ye favored lands, rejoice,
      Where God reveals his word:
    We are not left to nature's voice
      To bid us know the Lord.

    His statutes and commands
      Are set before our eyes;
    He puts the gospel in our hands,
      Where our salvation lies.

    His laws are just and pure,
      His truth without deceit;
    His promise is for ever sure,
      And his rewards are great.

PLEASANT PLAY.

There are many plays in which children may amuse themselves so as to benefit both the mind
and body. Exercise is very essential to the health, and all children should accustom themselves
to such exercise as will give elasticity to all the muscles of the body. Some children often
play too hard, and others, before they get through playing, get to quarrelling. Children never
appear so badly as when they quarrel with each other. Joseph and William, Jane and little Susan,
are out in the garden playing "hide and seek," around the summer house, as you see in the picture.
William became a little contrary, because every thing in the play did not suit him, and declared
he would run away. And you see how cross he looks at Jane, as he turns round to run away. Children
should never let anger rise in their bosoms because of some small mistake on the part of others.
They should always overlook all mistakes, forgive all injuries, and learn to love each other
when at play, as well as when at school. Good children will play together, without getting
angry, and it is a pretty sight to see such children all happy in each other's society, and
enjoying their pleasant pastimes, with cheerful and happy hearts.

    Our evil actions spring like trees,
      From small and hidden seeds;
    We think, or wish some wicked thing,
      And then do wicked deeds.

    Whoever dares to tell a lie,
      Whoever steals a pin,
    Whoever strikes an angry blow,
      Has done a deed of sin.

GEORGE AND HIS GUINEA.

Little George Ames went with his Aunt to attend a missionary meeting. After the minister had
ended his sermon, as he sat in the pew he whispered to his aunt, saying, "I wish you would
lend me a guinea and I will give it to you again when we get home." His aunt asked him what
he wanted of his guinea; he told her he wished to put it in the box when it came round, to
assist in sending the gospel to the heathen children. She replied, "a guinea is a great deal
of money, George; you had better ask your mother, first." As George's mother lived very near
the church, he went home immediately, and said, "Mother, will you let me have my guinea to
give to the mission." George's mother saw that he was very much interested for the heathen
children, and says to him, "supposing you give half of it." "No," said George, "I want to give
it all."

"Well, my dear, you will remember you cannot give it and have it too." She then gave him a
one pound note, and a shilling. But George said he would rather have a guinea. "Why," said
his mother, "what difference can it make? it is just the same amount." "Yes," said George,
"but that one pound will seem so much for a little boy to give. If I had a guinea, I could
put it in between two half-pence and nobody would know any thing about it." His mother was
pleased with his proposal, and George having got his guinea returned to the church and put
it in the box as he intended.

