"Tact, foresight and flattery, my dear Sir. It would be no use writing to these people to-day.
You'd get ignored, or at best two lines type-written by a secretary. Now look at that long
letter from LLOYD GEORGE about Welsh nationality and that other from HILAIRE BELLOC concerning
the adulteration of modern beer. You couldn't get them now. My idea is to catch your celebrity
young. When a man produces his first play or novel or book of poems I write him an admiring
letter. You can't lay it on too thick. Ask him some question on a topic that interests him.
It always draws. They are unused to praise and you catch them before the public has spoilt
them. I card-index all the replies I get. Of course nine out of ten of the people turn out
of no account, but some are sure to come off. You just throw out the failures and put the successes
in your collection."

At this point I heard our Archdeacon afar off. Our Archdeacon booms--not like trade, but like
the bittern. I heard him booming outside, "My dear lady, I cannot miss the chance of seeing
dear Mr. Fletterby's collection."

Fletterby! The name was familiar. Long years ago I published something--don't inquire into
the details of my crime--and the sole response I had from an unappreciative world was a highly
eulogistic letter from one Samuel Fletterby. I remembered the time I had spent in writing him
a lengthy and courteous reply. I remembered that often in my darker days I had drawn out the
letter of Fletterby to encourage me.

And now! I looked at the collection. It was arranged alphabetically. As I turned to the initial
of my name I framed a dramatic revelation for my friend Fletterby: "That writing is familiar
to me. In fact, Mr. Fletterby, I am its unworthy writer."

But my letter was not included in the collection.

"Throw out the failures," Mr. Fletterby had said.

I threw myself out instantly from the Autograph Exhibition. Better, far better buy things I
didn't want at prices I couldn't afford than stay in the company of that faithless one, my
sole erstwhile (as the papers say) admirer.

       *       *       *       *       *

  There was a great athlete named RUDD
  Who was born with a Blue in his blood;
        Stout-hearted, spring-heeled,
        He achieved on the field
  What his Varsity lost on the flood.

  But when he had breasted the tape
  A cynic emitted this jape:
        "Pray notice, old son,
        'Tisn't Oxford that's won,
  But Utah, Bowdoin and the Cape."

       *       *       *       *       *

EASTER IN WILD WALES.

The recent discovery (duly noted in The Daily Graphic of the 30th ult.) of "seven pearls of
excellent quality" by an Aberavon labourer in a mussel stranded by the tide has led to an extraordinary
influx of visitors to that quiet seaside resort. Costers have been arriving at the rate of
several hundreds a day, attracted by the prospect of finding the raw materials for the indispensable
decoration of their costumes, and the local authorities are at their wits' end to provide adequate
accommodation. Amongst the latest arrivals is the great architect, Sir MARTIN CONWAY, who has
been consulted with regard to the erection of a number of bungalow skyscrapers, and an urgent
message has been despatched to Sir EDWIN LUTYENS at Delhi, begging him to supply designs of
a suitable character. Meanwhile pearl-diving goes on day and night on the sea-front, with the
assistance of a flock of oyster-catchers, whose brilliant plumage adds greatly to the picturesqueness
of the scene.

Though the special good fortune of Aberavon has excited a certain amount of natural jealousy
in the breasts of hotel and boarding-house proprietors at other Welsh seaside resorts, they
have no serious reason to complain. The usual attractions of Barmouth have been powerfully
reinforced by the presence in the neighbouring hills of a full-sized gorilla which recently
escaped from a travelling menagerie. When last seen the animal was making in the direction
of Harlech, which is at present the head-quarters of the Easter Vacation School of the Cambrian
section of the Yugo-Slav Doukhobors. It is understood that the local police have the matter
well in hand, and arrangements have been made, in case of emergency, for withdrawing all the
population within the precincts of the castle.

Great disappointment prevails at Llandudno owing to the refusal of Mr. EVAN ROBERTS, the famous
revivalist, to localise the materialisation of the Millennium, which he has recently prophesied,
at Llandudno during the Easter holidays. By way of a set-off an effort was made to induce Sir
AUCKLAND GEDDES to give a vocal recital before his departure for America. As his recent performance
at a meeting of the London Scots Club proved, Sir AUCKLAND is a singist of remarkable power,
infinite humour and soul-shaking pathos. Unfortunately his repertory is confined to Scottish
songs, and on this ground he has been obliged to decline the invitation, though the fee offered
was unprecedented in the economic annals of the variety stage. His latest story, bearing the
attractive title of Pirates of the Spring (UNWIN), proves, I think, that progress to be well
sustained. As you may have guessed from the name, this is a tale of adolescence; it shows Mr.
REID'S North-Ireland lads differing slightly from the more familiar home-product, though less
in essentials than in tricks of speech, and (since these are day-school boys, exposed to the
influence of their several homes) an echo of religious conflict happily rare in the experience
of English youth. Mr. REID is amongst the few novelists who can be sympathetic to boyhood without
sentimentalising over it; he has admirably caught its strange mingling of pride and curiosity,
of reticence and romance and jealous loyalty. The tale has no particular plot; it is a record
of seeming trifles, friendships made and broken and renewed, sporadic adventures and deep-laid
intrigues that lead nowhere. But you will catch in it a real air of youth, a spring-time wind
blowing from the half-forgotten world in which all of us once were chartered privateers. There
are, of course, worthy folk who would be simply bored by all this--which is why I do not venture
to call Pirates of the Spring everyone's reading; others, however, more fortunate, will find
it a true and delicately observed study of an engaging theme.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must really warn the flippant. It would be appalling if admirers of Literary (and other)
Lapses were to send blithely to the libraries for Mr. LEACOCK'S latest and find themselves
landed with The Unsolved Riddle of Social Justice (LANE). And yet I don't know. Here is a subject
which even the flippant cannot long ignore. And a man of the world with a clear head and a
mastery of clearer idiom than a professor of political economy usually commands has here said
something desperately serious without a trace of dulness. I should like Professor LEACOCK'S
short book to be divided into three. The first part, a trenchant analysis of some of the evils
of our social and industrial system, I would send to the impossibilists and obstructives; the
second, a critical examination of some of the nostrums of the progressives, should go to the
hasty optimists who think that a sudden change of system will as suddenly change men, for it
contains much that they will do well (and now resolutely refuse) to ponder. The third part
I would return to the author for revision, for it contains no more, when analysed, than an
ipse dixit, and quite fails to show that the evils denounced as intolerable in the first part
can be remedied without some substantial portion at least of the heroic reforms denounced in
his second. Also I would remind him, or rather perhaps the more ingenuous of his readers, that
there have been later contributions to the theory and practice of new-world building than Mr.
BELLAMY'S Looking Backward.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Great Desire (HODDER AND STOUGHTON) is a novel full of shrewd philosophy and excellent
talk. Mr. ALEXANDER BLACK sets out to prove nothing, to justify no political or social attitude,
but just to draw his fellow-Americans as he sees them going about their war-time business,
the "great desire" being simply the thing that is uppermost in the mind of each one. As a composite
picture of what New York thought about the business of getting into the War the result could
hardly be bettered. One never feels that latent antagonism which readers, even though they
may agree with him, unconsciously experience towards an author who seems to be arguing a point.
Mr. BLACK gives the extreme views of the blatant patriot, and of the anarchist and socialist
who cannot see the distinction between arguing against war on paper and arguing against this
War on the street corner. He makes us realise the people who think only how to make the War
an adjunct of themselves and those who desire only to make themselves a useful adjunct of the
War. He draws his types cleverly and states the case of each one fairly, but with a humorous
restraint and from a standpoint of absolute detachment. The Great Desire has plenty of charm
regarded merely as a story, but I recommend it especially to those who are apt to judge the
Americans by their politicians or to assess New York on the basis of the HEARST newspapers.

       *       *       *       *       *

If it were only for his complete fearlessness in following well-worn convention and his apparent
reliance on his readers' ignorance or want of memory, Mr. J. MURRAY GIBBON'S Drums Afar (LANE)
would be rather a remarkable book in these psycho-analytical days. His hero actually has the
audacity to have blue eyes and fair hair, to start his career in the House, and to end it,
so far as the novel is concerned, lying wounded in a hospital, where his fiancée, a famous
singer, happened to be a nurse in the same ward. Nor does the young man disdain the threadbare
conversational cliché. "Don't you think there is something elemental in most of us which no
veneer of civilisation or artificial living can ever deaden?" he says in one place (rather
as if veneer were a kind of rat poison). Still bolder, on leaving America, where he has become
engaged to a wealthy Chicagan's daughter, he quotes--

  "I could not love thee, dear, so much
        Loved I not honour more."

And, although the girl is annoyed, it is not on account of the citation. Much of the story,
however, deals with Chicago, and since my previous knowledge of that city could have easily
been contained in a tin of pressed beef I can pardon Mr. GIBBON for being as informative about
it as he is about Oxford colleges. (He seems, by the way, to have a rooted contempt for Balliol,
which I had always supposed was a quite well-meaning place.) On the whole, either in spite
or because of its rather Baedeker-like qualities, Drums Afar will be found quite a restful
and readable book.

       *       *       *       *       *

