There is some ancient history in regard to these matters which ought to be retold in the light
of modern knowledge; for example, the case of Patti, the Sicilian banker. He had a prosperous
institution in which were deposited the earnings of many Italians, poor and wealthy. Lupo's
gang got after him and demanded a large sum for "protection." But Patti had a disinclination
to give up, and refused. At the time his refusal was attributed to high civic ideals, and he
was lauded as a hero. Anyhow, he defied the Mafia, laid in a stock of revolvers and rifles,
and rallied his friends around him. But the news got abroad that Lupo was after Patti, and
there was a run on Patti's bank. It was a big run, and some of the depositors gesticulated
and threatened--for Patti couldn't pay it all out in a minute. Then there was some kind of
a row, and Patti and his friends (claiming that the Mafia had arrived) opened fire, killing
one man and wounding others. The newspapers praised Patti for a brave and stalwart citizen.
Maybe he was. After the smoke had cleared away, however, he disappeared with all his depositors'
money, and now it has been discovered that the man he killed was a depositor and not a Black
Hander. The police are still looking for him.

This case seems a fairly good illustration of the endless opportunity for wrong-doing possible
in a state of society where extortion is permitted to exist--where the laws are not enforced--where
there is a "higher" sanction than the code. Whether Patti was a good or a bad man, he might
easily have killed an enemy in revenge and got off scot-free on the mere claim that the other
was blackmailing him; just as an American in some parts of our country can kill almost anybody
and rely on being acquitted by a jury, provided he is willing to swear that the deceased had
made improper advances to his wife.

The prevention of kidnapping, bomb-throwing, and the other allied manifestations of the Black
Hand depends entirely upon the activity of the police--particularly the Italian detectives,
who should form an inevitable part of the force in every large city. The fact of the matter
is that we never dreamed of a real "Italian peril" (or, more accurately, a real "Sicilian peril")
until about the year 1900. Then we woke up to what was going on--it had already gone a good
way--and started in to put an end to it. Petrosino did put an end to much of it, and at the
present time it is largely sporadic. Yet there will always be a halo about the heads of the
real Camorrists and Mafiusi--the Alfanos and the Rapis--in the eyes of their simple-minded
countrymen in the United States.

Occasionally one of these big guns arrives at an American port of entry, coming first-class
via Havre or Liverpool, having made his exit from Italy without a passport. Then the Camorrists
of New York and Brooklyn get busy for a month or so, raising money for the boys at home and
knowing that they will reap their reward if ever they go back. The popular method of collecting
is for the principal capo maestra, or temporary boss of Mulberry Street, to "give" a banquet
at which all "friends" must be present--at five dollars per head. No one cares to be conspicuous
by reason of his absence, and the hero returns to Italy with a large-sized draft on Naples
or Palermo.

Meanwhile the criminal driven out of his own country has but to secure transportation to New
York to find himself in a rich field for his activities; and once he has landed and observed
the demoralization often existing from political or other reasons in our local forces of police
and our uncertain methods of administering justice (particularly where the defendant is a foreigner),
he rapidly becomes convinced that America is not only the country of liberty but of license--to
commit crime.

