"What you want to do," I said at last, "is to write a really long letter to Mrs. Cardew, acquainting
her with all the facts. Keep nothing back from her. I should begin by dwelling on the personnel
of our little company. 'My husband and I,' you should say, 'are not alone. We have also with
us Mr. and Mrs. Archibald Mannering, a delightful couple. Mr. A. Mannering is something in
the Territorials when he is not looking after his estate. His wife is a great favourite in
the county. Next I have to introduce to you Mr. Thomas Todd, an agreeable young bachelor. Mr.
Thos. Todd is in the Sucking-a-ruler-and-looking-out-of-the-window Department of the Admiralty,
by whose exertions, so long as we preserve the 2 Todds to 1 formula--or, excluding Canadian
Todds, 16 to 10--Britannia rules the waves. Lastly, there is Mr. Samuel Simpson. Short of sight
but warm of heart, and with (on a bad pitch) a nasty break from the off, Mr. S. Simpson is
a littérateur of some eminence but little circulation, combining on the cornet intense wind-power
with no execution, and on the golf course an endless enthusiasm with only an occasional contact.
This, dear Mrs. Cardew, is our little party. I say nothing of my husband.'"

"Go on," smiled Myra. "You have still to explain how we invite ourselves to lunch."

"We don't; we leave that to her. All we do is to give a list of the meals in which, in the
ordinary course, we are wont to indulge, together with a few notes on our relative capacities
at each. 'Perhaps,' you wind up, 'it is at luncheon time that as a party we show to the best
advantage. Some day, my dear Mrs. Cardew, we must all meet at lunch. You will then see that
I have exaggerated neither my husband's appetite, nor the light conversation of my brother,
nor the power of apology, should any little contretemps occur, of Mr. Samuel Simpson. Let us,
I say, meet at lunch. Let us----'" I took out my watch suddenly.

"Come on," I said, getting up and giving a hand to Myra; "we shall only just be in time for it."

                                                         A. A. M.

       *       *       *       *       *

ARTISTES' ALIASES.

An interesting meeting was held at the Memorial Hall last Saturday in order to discuss schemes
of brightening the nomenclature of British musicians.

Sir FREDERIC COWEN, who presided, said that whereas in the last century it was the common practice
of British singers to Italianize their surnames, we had now gone to the opposite extreme of
an aggressive insularity. He thought that a compromise between the two entremes was feasible,
by which a certain element of picturesqueness might be introduced into our programmes without
exposing us to the charge of deliberately seeking to denationalise ourselves.

Sir HENRY WOOD suggested that the method of the anagram or palindrome yielded very happy results.
Nobody could be charged with running away from his name if he merely turned it upside down
or inside out. For instance, Miss MURIEL FOSTER would become Miss Leirum Retsof, which had
a pleasantly Slavonic sound, while Mr. HAMILTON HARTY would reappear in the impressive form
of Mr. Notlimah Ytrah.

Miss CARRIE TUBB protested vigorously against the proposal, on the ground that, if it were
adopted, her name would sound just like Butt, which was already that of a contralto singer.
(Sensation.)

Madame CLARA BUTT supported the protest, pointing out that, if the suggestion were acted on,
her name would sound just like Tubb, which was that of a soprano vocalist. (Great sensation.)

Professor GRANVILLE BANTOCK pleaded eloquently for calling in the glamour of the East to illuminate
the drab monotony of our Anglo-Saxon surnames. He was quite ready to be known in future as
Bantockjee or Bangkok, if the sense of the meeting was in favour of the change--always subject,
of course, to the consent of Sir OLIVER LODGE, the Principal of Birmingham University. (Loud
cheers.)

Mr. DELIUS was strongly opposed to any change of nomenclature being made compulsory. He was
quite sure that he would not compose nearly so well under, e.g., the alias of De Lara. In any
case, artists should be safeguarded against the appropriation of their names by others.

Mr. ALGERNON ASHTON (who was greeted with soft music on muted violins) deprecated all unseemly
pranks. Nothing would induce him to change his patronymic or turn it upside down or inside out.

Mr. LANDON RONALD expressed sympathy with musicians who were handicapped by cacophonous or
undignified names. For example, a singer called Hewlett or Ball laboured under a serious disadvantage
when competing with artistes blessed with melodious appellations such as Bellincioni or Sammarco.

Mr. BEN DAVIES observed that Welsh singers wore terribly hampered by the poverty of their nomenclature.
Two out of every three bore the surname Davies, and at least one in three of our Welsh male
soloists was christened Ivor. Ivor was a good name in itself, but it was becoming terribly
hackneyed.

Mr. HENRY BIRD thought that all musicians should be at liberty to assume names provided they
were appropriate. But for a composer to call himself Johann Sebastian Wagner was to court disaster.
He ventured to submit the following list for the benefit of persons who contemplated making
the change. For a soprano: Miss Hyam Seton. For a contralto: Miss Ritchie Plummer. For a tenor:
Mr. Uther Chesterton. For a bass: Mr. Deeping Downer. For a pianist: Mr. or Miss Ivory Pounds.
For a banjoist: Mr. Plunkett Stringer.

Miss PHYLLIS LETT, in a brief speech, explained that her name was all-British and had no connection
whatever with Lithuania.

Ultimately, on the proposal of Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN, seconded by Mr. JOSEF HOLBROOKE, a small
committee was appointed, consisting of Sir EDWARD ELGAR, Professor BANTOCK, Madame CLARA BUTT,
Mr. BEN DAVIES and Sir HENRY WOOD, to enquire into the different proposals, and the meeting
dispersed to the strains of "For he might have been a Rooshan."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

     "The audience was divided into two sections; the Smith supporters
     cheered every blow Wye landed as a point for their man, while Wye's
     friends were equally enthusiastic on his behalf."--Daily Mail.

With the SMITH supporters behind us, and a SMITH referee, we are prepared to take on CARPENTIER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"PUNCH" IN HIS ELEMENT.

(Modelled on the Opening Chorus of "Atalanta in Calydon.")

    Once in so many calendar spaces
      Punch, appearing on All Fools' Day,
    Fills with giggles the hours and graces,
      Causes the hares of March to stay;
        And the soft sweet hatters along the Strand
        Remember the dreams of Wonderland,
    And the chessboard world and the White King's faces,
      The hamless commons and all the hay.

    Come with loud bells and belabouring of bladder,
      Spirit of Laughter, descend on the town
    With tumbling of paint-pails from top of the ladder
      And blowing of tiles from the stockbroker's crown;
        Bind on thy hosen in motley halves
        Over the rondure and curve of thy calves;
    The night may be mad, but the morn shall be madder--
      Madder than moonshine and madder than brown.

    What shall I say to it, how shall I pipe of it,
      Weave it what strains of ineffable things?
    O that my Muse were a Muse with a gripe of it,
      Engined with petrol and wafted by wings!
        For the sorrows and sighings of winter are done,
        And Punch is appearing on April 1,
    And a savour of daffodils clings to the type of it,
      And the buttered balm of a crumpet clings.

