But while the people were thus liberal in promoting the social freedom, their benevolence was
drawn into another channel. A mournful visitation desolated the homes, and destroyed the lives
of several of their fellow citizens. On the 6th of February, known as "black Thursday," the
thermometer was 115 in the shade, the sun, obscured by murky mists, looked like a globe of
blood, the air was loaded with smoke and ashes, and as the night closed in, columns of fire
were seen every where in the distance. The uninclosed country was sweept by the resistless
element. Sometimes swifter than the fleetest horse, it overtook the traveller who could preserve
his life only by facing round and dashing through its least impervious range. The parched leaves
of the forest kindled at the first glance of the flame. Sheep and cattle fell dead--farms and
stock yards were destroyed in a few minutes. In many instances the blaze encircled the unfortunate
before the danger was perceived. A strong hot wind bore along ashes, and carried them far over
the ocean, where falling on the decks of vessels fifty miles from land, the passengers were
terrified with vague apprehension, or thought that the end of the world was come. The effects
of this devastation were in some places appalling. The Barrabool Hills, near Geelong, a district
of romantic beauty celebrated for its vines, and occupied by small holders, were covered with
blackened ruins. The whole family of Mr. M Leland, a settler near Melbourne, perished. The
fire suddenly seized his dwelling and intercepted his escape. His wife and five children dropt
one by one: he endeavoured to save his little boy, but he was suffocated in his arms; the unhappy
parent was himself discovered a few hours after, by a shepherd, in a creek, where he had found
refuge from his dread pursuer.

The mayor and corporation of Melbourne, then the only representative body in the province,
presented the Tasmanian delegates with an address, and entertained them with splendid hospitality.
A banner, bought by general subscription, was committed to their charge as a present to the
colonists of Tasmania. The ladies of Victoria graced the ceremony of presentation. In giving
this beautiful emblem of Australian re-union, "Gentlemen," said the mayor, "I pray you to receive
it in the name of the people of Port Phillip, and may it remain nailed to the mast until these
colonies are emancipated from convictism." "We accept it, with gratitude," they replied,--"May
the flag which adorns it ever float above it in mild sovereignty: the noble nation from which
we sprung will applaud and assist us. Such are our hopes; but whether they are doomed to disappointment
or not, we shall discharge our duty as subjects, and then commit our cause to the righteous
judgment of God. May He watch over our proceedings; may He permit us to add another to those
bloodless victories which teach the oppressed to confide in the armour of truth while they
warn all men that against weapons of such heavenly temper the shields of the mighty are lifted
in vain."

By this time the people of New South Wales became warmly interested in the league. No time
was lost. To obtain the active assistance of that great colony was to insure success. Messrs.
Moore and Westgarth, members of the legislature, and Dr. Thompson, mayor of Geelong, were deputed
to act in the metropolis for Victoria. The delegates of Tasmania returned home. The banner
intrusted to their care was publicly delivered at a meeting, of which, Mr. Dry was chairman.[264]
Councils were chosen for north and south Tasmania, and several thousand pounds were added to
the league fund.

Messrs. West and Weston were commissioned to attend the conference at Sydney. Joined by the
delegates for Victoria, they landed in March. A large concourse of citizens assembled at the
Royal Hotel, where an address, breathing encouragement and hope, was read by Mr. Charles Cowper,
in the name of the New South Wales association. The delegates, invited to a public banquet
in honor of their mission, were met by the city members, the mayor, the principal merchants,
and professional gentlemen. The immense wool store of Messrs. Mort, decorated for the occasion,
exhibited a striking scene of luxury and magnificence. Speeches, such as Britons make when
their hearts are loyal and their wrongs are felt, promised a hearty struggle, and predicted
a certain victory. A public meeting of the colonists assembled to recognise the League, and
dissolve the colonial association. Dr. Lang proposed another covenant drawn up by himself.
It recited the chief facts stated in that of Victoria, but added: "And if it should be necessary
in the struggle upon which we are now deliberately entering, for the protection and defence
of our adopted country, as well as in the vindication of our rights as Britons, ... to have
recourse to the last remedy of the oppressed, we appeal to God and the world, as to whether
we shall not have indefeasible right and eternal justice on our side. So help us God." A league,
based on moral force, and disclaiming all weapons but those of persuasion and entreaty, was
evidently at an end if armed resistance were contemplated as the final resource. The earnest
objections of the delegates were supported by Mr. Lamb. The mercantile and professional classes
decidedly disapproved of the substitution; but the strength of numbers might have carried the
threatening clause had not Dr. Lang consented to abandon it. Never was the league in so much
danger, it being determined by the delegates to relinquish all idea of confederation on any
terms inconsistent with constitutional resistance. A proposal to join the league was carried
amidst triumphant cheering. A council was chosen by ballot. Messrs. Charles Cowper, Robert
Campbell, and Gilbert Wright were appointed delegates for New South Wales. The most impressive
meeting held by the delegates, was convened in the congregational church of Sydney. A thousand
persons, chiefly heads of families, and of both sexes, listened with absorbing interest to
the appeals of clergymen, protestant and catholic, to principles familiar to the patriot and
the christian. The venerable metropolitan, in accounting for his absence, recorded his conviction
in terms suited to his office and experience, and in a strain of reproof and warning, which
no government will venture to disregard.[265] The first conference of the united colonies was
held in the city of Sydney and closed its labours on the 1st day of May, 1851. A permanent
executive board and a London delegation, were nominated; Mr. Charles Cowper being appointed
the first president of the Australasian League, and Mr. Gilbert Wright, secretary.

The appointment of Mr. J. C. King as the delegate for Melbourne, and other gentlemen resident
in London to act in the same capacity, was intended to agitate the colonial cause beneath the
walls of parliament, and thus by multiplied agencies to weary the ministers into justice--to
conquer their obstinacy by a perpetual coming. It was the earnest desire of the founders of
the league to employ all possible means consistent with loyal and constitutional principles,
that the blame of ultimate consequences, if adverse, might remain with the servants of the
crown. A letter of instructions addressed to Mr. J. A. Jackson and other delegates by the executive
board of the league and signed by the president, stated clearly the duties which devolved upon
them. "You will bear in mind that yours is the work of testimony, that we do not hold you responsible
for the result. We are discharging by you a duty we owe to the parent country. We wish you
to state our case; to deprecate the evils we suffer. We wish you to depict the vast resources
and unrivalled beauty of these colonies, and to insist on the injustice and folly of degrading
them to the purposes of a prison. We are anxious that you should tell our countrymen at home,
that here is a land capable of boundless prosperity, that our whalers fish upon our coasts,
that we number our sheep by millions, that our wheat is famed in every market in the world;
that there are millions of acres over which the plough may be driven, and where the axe is
not required as pioneer. You will tell them that we love our native country, and rejoice in
our share of her heritage of glory, that we offer our filial duty and manly affiance, but,
that we offer them on this condition, that we, and our children, and their country, shall be
free. This granted, every hour will strengthen the relations already established between us;
but should the object of our League, so near to our hearts, fail us, should the British public
prove deaf or indifferent, or the minister prove inexorable, your mission will have been discharged;
and we must await, as best we may, the development of those providential purposes which are
often most obscure when they are nearest the dawn. 'England has no right to cast out amongst
other nations, or upon naked shores, either her poverty or her crime. This is not the way in
which a great and wealthy people, a MOTHER OF NATIONS, ought to colonize.'"

"Never has the question of transportation assumed a greater importance than at the present
moment. The colonists are fretted by the vacillation of her Majesty's government, but they
are anxious to know that their honor and happiness are compatible with their present political
relations. The plantation of new colonies in our vicinity, the now constant intercourse with
the American continent, the discovery of gold fields, large in extent and abundant in production,
on the Western Cordilleras of New South Wales, and the thence certain rapid influx of population,
all make the future an object of solicitude. It may be your happiness to contribute to the
achievement of this great moral victory, to the removal of those intolerable burdens imposed
by a despotic minister, and permitted by the indifference of the British Nation,--and thus
to the establishment of a closer union between these colonies and the parent state."

The chief reliance of the confederates, however, was on the approaching elections. The new
constitutional act demanded a fresh appeal to the people. The constituencies of the Australian
world were to decide its fate. The issue was no longer doubtful, except where the right of
voting was conferred on few, and the influence of squatters paramount. Such places, were however,
comparatively numerous, and a hard and earnest struggle was expected in the northern district
of New South Wales. The conference of the League terminated its sittings on the 1st of May.
On the 5th, the official corps of Victoria, the representatives and the delegates, left the
wharf of Sydney, and amidst the cheers and forebodings of many quitted a political connection
which had been often the source of angry strife. Victoria and New South Wales were now separate
governments. The new colony, gigantic in its youth, threatened the supremacy of the middle
district, while Moreton Bay was clamorous for a separate executive.

But on the 6th of May a discovery was announced, which changed the fortunes of the Australian
empire. The predictions of science were fulfilled. It was stated in the Quarterly Review, (Sept.
1850), that New South Wales would probably be found wonderfully rich in precious metals. Scarcely
had the conjecture reached the colony before it was verified, and Mr. Hargraves, a practical
miner, discovered the gold of Bathurst. It was felt by the former apologists of transportation
that the policy of England must condemn its continuance not less than the interests of the
Australias. Mr. Wentworth was the first to announce the altered position of the question. He
reminded the electors that he was originally opposed to the revival or continuance of transportation,
could it by any means be got rid of in the whole Australian group, and that this was no longer
impossible; "that a new and unexpected era had dawned, which in a few years would precipitate
the colony into a nation." He, therefore, pledged himself to join with them in any remonstrance
intended to terminate transportation, and to prevent the formation of any penal settlement
in the southern hemisphere.[266] This manifesto was adopted by the former advocates of transportation
in New South Wales, from the loftiest even to the least. Gold fields beyond the dreams of oriental
vision were rapidly unfolded. The relations of labor and capital were entirely deranged, and
the future became uncertain and perplexing. A few employers who imagined that their personal
interests would be considered, grew more earnest for convict labor, not thinking how it could
be retained, or caring for the crime and misery it might entail. But they were few. More generous
spirits sympathised with the general aspect of a change which promised to people a region as
fair and fertile, and as large as Europe. The strenuous resistance of transportation had cleared
the character of the colonists, and proved that their feelings harmonised with the universal
and unchangeable convictions of mankind. The first news of this great discovery was accompanied
by the strongest evidence of Australian loyalty to the common law of nations. "The success
of the confederation (said the first journal of Europe), forms a remarkable indication of a
feeling in all the Australian colonies of a more elevated character than they have hitherto
obtained credit for. It becomes more than ordinarily important to ascertain the exact nature
of that moral and social atmosphere which so large a number of our countrymen are probably
destined to breathe (October '51)."

On their return to Tasmania the delegates were greeted with addresses and public demonstrations.
The settlers, with a manly consistency, despite the threatened scarcity of labor, adhered to
their flag and responded with cheers to those who predicted a temporary struggle and a bright
futurity. But the agents of the convict department endeavored to rekindle the last embers of
jealousy and hate. To the employers they predicted ruin; to the houseowners, desolation and
emptiness; to the publicans the reign of puritanism; to the emancipists the ascendancy of the
free, to be followed by unextinguishable persecution. All the sentiments and epithets known
in Irish polemics and Irish seditions were re-arranged in the convict service, and scattered
with profusion. The League was assailed with peculiar virulence, and all its distinguished
adherents held up to scorn as religious and immoral men, as hateful for their covetousness
and contemptible for their poverty. Sometimes they were locusts, swarming everywhere; at others
they were a scattered and miserable remnant--which the government and the convict party would
speedily sweep away. The governor himself during a procession through the colony was cheered
as the great champion of the pardoned, and placards represented that he had defeated a scheme
of the settlers to deprive them of their votes. He entered the city in state--and while he
passed under a triumphal arch, Mr. West, the Hobart Town delegate, was publicly gibbetted.
But the Trades' Union, and an association of the Native Youth, assembled in the evening, and
in the presence of many thousands, the well-dressed effigies of Earl Grey and the governor
were thrown into an enormous fire.

Meanwhile the league was extended to South Australia. All the members of the legislature, except
the officials, joined in a requisition to receive Messrs. West and Bell as delegates from Tasmania
and Victoria (August, '51). All denominations warmly advocated the cause. The largest assembly
ever gathered there--and including men who had never before united--carried the resolution,
moved by the Bishop of Adelaide, "that the total cessation of transportation to the Australian
colonies is essential to their honor, happiness, and prosperity." A meeting at Canterbury,
New Zealand, called by Mr. Godley, adopted and subscribed the engagement (October, '51). Thus
the five colonies, answering to the stars of the Southern Cross, had raised that sign of hope
and union.

The writs for Tasmania were at length issued. The day of general nomination was remarkably
brilliant. The principal candidates were attended with numerous banners and long processions.
The ladies wore the colors of their parties, and even the children to the number of several
hundreds, marched in the train of Mr. Dry, the popular candidate for Launceston. On one of
their banners a passage taken from a pamphlet of the day was inscribed--"The last link of despotism
is broken, when the children of the soil decree its freedom." The native youth for the first
time bore an active share in this last attempt to secure the liberties of their country, and,
in a public assembly, to petition for its success, displayed both moderation and ability--highly
creditable considering the disadvantages under which they had labored. These efforts were successful.
The country districts were in three cases disputed by the transportationists. They polled little
more than a hundred votes, but in Hobart Town a more serious conflict was expected. Beside
the lower class of expirees, many of the publicans and almost all in the service of the government
were in favor of transportation, or compelled to support it. Mr. Young, a solicitor, after
several candidates had offered and retired, determined on a contest with Messrs. Chapman and
Dunn, the chairman and treasurer of the local league council: more than five hundred votes
were polled in his interest, but the friends of freedom carried their candidates by a triumphant
majority. The election at Hobart Town, accomplished in the face of every obstacle, demonstrated
the strong and irrevocable desire of the people. The day of nomination was memorable in British
history, the day when the signal of Nelson ran through the fleet--"England expects every man
will do his duty." The speakers did not omit to apply an example so striking. A despatch of
Sir William Denison (May, '50), recommending the grant of lands and other advantages to reconcile
the less incorruptible advocates of abolition and marked "confidential," had just reached the
colony, having been unaccountably inserted in the blue book. The moral choice of the people
was still more strikingly manifest, when they disregarded such offers, whether considered as
compensation or bribes, and rejected every advocate of transportation. Such appeals as the
following were not heard in vain. "Now, let our signal be--'Tasmania expects every man to do
his duty!' The first earnest of your privileges must be the utter extinction of slavery in
this your adopted land. By your most cherished associations--by all that you hold most dear--by
the love you bear your domestic hearths--by the claims and cries of your children--by the light
of that freedom, your common inheritance, which has now for the first time dawned upon you,
which has gilt your mountains and gladdened your valleys,--by the spirit of emancipation, and
which at this very moment is beating in unison in strong pulsations through every artery of
the island, until I can almost fancy that Nature herself heaves and sympathises with the universal
emotion,--I call upon you, adjure you, to cast off every unworthy feeling, and remember only
'to do your duty' towards your own--your adopted land."[267]

By a violent exertion the convict party were held together until the day of polling:--then
they disappeared with noise and riot, and were seen no more.

The reputable emancipists joined their emigrant countrymen. They held the balance in their
hands. In the main they proved true to the principles which hold society together, and followed
the dictates of parental affection. Many not actual members of the league supported its principles
so far as they contemplated the social freedom of the Australian world. Thus all the preliminary
steps were taken to secure the voice of the legislative councils, and throughout the southern
hemisphere no representative of the people was found to stand up as the advocate of transportation.
The proper moment for confederation had been found. A few months before it was unthought of--a
few months after it would have been impracticable. The speech of Earl Grey, was intended to
extinguish finally all hope of freedom, but struck out a spark and kindled a flame which none
can quench.

The representatives were true. The council of New South Wales, the earliest to assemble, struck
the first blow for Australasian liberty. They voted, not for the deliverance of their own colony
only, but for the rescue of Van Diemen's Land. Mr. Lamb proposed resolutions charging Earl
Grey with perfidy--Mr. King sought the same object in a milder form, and in November the whole
house concurred in condemning transportation. The Victorian legislature, on the motion of Mr.
Westgarth, adopted a similar protest, though in stronger terms. Supported by the law officers
of the crown, the resolutions passed with perfect unanimity (Dec.), and they were promptly
forwarded by Governor Latrobe, who expressed the warmest interest in their success. Thousands
of expirees and absconders, allured by the prospect of sudden riches, descended upon that province
and filled the inhabitants with astonishment. Hundreds who arrived in Van Diemen's Land in
bondage, and many who quitted it without leave, became by a few days spoil, masters of from
one hundred to a thousand pounds.

